Produced by Robert Nield, Tom Allen, David Moynihan, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


ABRAHAM LINCOLN: A HISTORY
BY JOHN G. NICOLAY AND JOHN HAY

VOLUME ONE


TO THE HONORABLE ROBERT TODD LINCOLN

  THIS WORK IS DEDICATED
    IN TOKEN OF
  A LIFE-LONG FRIENDSHIP
    AND ESTEEM


AUTHORS' PREFACE


A generation born since Abraham Lincoln died has already reached
manhood and womanhood. Yet there are millions still living who
sympathized with him in his noble aspirations, who labored with him in
his toilsome life, and whose hearts were saddened by his tragic death.
It is the almost unbroken testimony of his contemporaries that by
virtue of certain high traits of character, in certain momentous lines
of purpose and achievement, he was incomparably the greatest man of
his time. The deliberate judgment of those who knew him has hardened
into tradition; for although but twenty-five years have passed since
he fell by the bullet of the assassin, the tradition is already
complete. The voice of hostile faction is silent, or unheeded; even
criticism is gentle and timid. If history had said its last word, if
no more were to be known of him than is already written, his fame,
however lacking in definite outline, however distorted by fable, would
survive undiminished to the latest generations. The blessings of an
enfranchised race would forever hail him as their liberator; the
nation would acknowledge him as the mighty counselor whose patient
courage and wisdom saved the life of the republic in its darkest hour;
and illuminating his proud eminence as orator, statesman, and ruler,
there would forever shine around his memory the halo of that tender
humanity and Christian charity in which he walked among his fellow-
countrymen as their familiar companion and friend.

It is not, therefore, with any thought of adding materially to his
already accomplished renown that we have written the work which we now
offer to our fellow-citizens. But each age owes to its successors the
truth in regard to its own annals. Two days later he took possession
of the country in the name of Queen Elizabeth, and as an indication of
the national sovereignty to all men he caused the arms of England
engraved on lead to be fixed on a pillar of wood on the shore
side.

Mishaps did not end with the landing in Newfoundland.

The emigrants who sailed with Gilbert were better fitted for a crusade
than a colony, and, disappointed at not at once finding mines of
gold and silver, many deserted; and soon there were not enough sailors
to man all the four ships. Accordingly, the _Swallow_ was sent back
to England with the sick; and with the remainder of the fleet, well
supplied at St. John's with fish and other necessaries, Gilbert (August
20) sailed south as far as forty-four degrees north latitude.
Off Sable Island a storm assailed them, and the largest of the
vessels, called the _Delight_, carrying most of the provisions, was
driven on a rock and went to pieces.

Overwhelmed by this terrible misfortune, the colonists returned to
Newfoundland, where, yielding to his crew, Gilbert discontinued his
explorations, and on August 31 changed the course of the two ships
remaining, the _Squirrel_ and _Golden Hind_, directly for England.
The story of the voyage back is most pathetic. From the first the sea
was boisterous; but to entreaties that he should abandon the
_Squirrel_, a little affair of ten tons, and seek his own safety
in the _Hind_, a ship of much larger size, Gilbert replied, "No, I
will not forsake my little company going homeward, with whom I have
passed so many storms and perils."

Even then, amid so much danger, his spirit rose supreme, and he
actually planned for the spring following two expeditions, one to the
south and one to the north; and when some one asked him how he expected
to meet the expenses in so short a time, he replied, "Leave that to
me, and I will ask a penny of no man."
A terrible storm arose, but Gilbert retained the heroic courage
and Christian faith which had ever distinguished him. As often as the
_Hind_, tossed upon the waves, approached within hailing distance of
the _Squirrel_, the gallant admiral, "himself sitting with a book in
his hand" on the deck, would call out words of cheer and
consolation--"We are as near heaven by sea as by land."

When night came on (September 10) only the lights in the
riggings of the _Squirrel_ told that the noble Gilbert still survived.
At midnight the lights went out suddenly, and from the watchers on the
Hind the cry arose, "The admiral is cast away." And only the _Golden
Hind_ returned to England.[4]
The mantle of Gilbert fell upon the shoulders of his half-brother Sir
Walter Raleigh, whose energy and versatility made him, perhaps, the
foremost Englishman of his age. When the _Hind_ returned from her
ill-fated voyage Raleigh was thirty-one years of age and possessed a
person at once attractive and commanding. He was tall and well
proportioned, had thick, curly locks, beard, and mustaches, full,
red lips, bluish gray eyes, high forehead, and a face described as
"long and bold."
By service in France, the Netherlands, and Ireland he had shown
himself a soldier of the same fearless stamp as his half-brother
Sir Humphrey Gilbert; and he was already looked upon as a seaman
of splendid powers for organization.

Poet and scholar, he was the patron of Edmund Spenser, the famous
author of the _Faerie Queene_; of Richard Hakluyt, the naval
historian; of Le Moyne and John White, the painters; and of Thomas
Hariot, the great mathematician.

Expert in the art of gallantry, Raleigh won his way to the queen's heart
by deftly placing between her feet and a muddy place his new plush
coat. He dared the extremity of his political fortunes by writing
on a pane of glass which the queen must see, "Fain would I climb,
but fear I to fall." And she replied with an encouraging--"If thy
heart fail thee, climb not at all." The queen's favor developed
into magnificent gifts of riches and honor, and Raleigh received
various monopolies, many forfeited estates, and appointments as lord
warden of the stannaries, lieutenant of the county of Cornwall,
vice-admiral of Cornwall and Devon, and captain of the queen's
guard.

The manner in which Raleigh went about the work of colonization showed
remarkable forethought and system. In order to enlist the
active cooperation of the court and gentry, he induced Richard Hakluyt
to write for him, in 1584, his _Discourse on Western Planting_, which
he circulated in manuscript.[5] He not only received from the
queen in 1584 a patent similar to Gilbert's,[6] but by obtaining
a confirmation from Parliament in 1585 he acquired a national sanction
which Gilbert's did not possess.[7]
In imitation of Gilbert he sent out first an exploring expedition
commanded by Arthur Barlow and Philip Amidas; but, warned by his
brother's experience, he directed them to go southward.

They left the west of England April 27, 1584, and arrived upon the coast
of North Carolina July 4, where they passed into Ocracoke Inlet south
of Cape Hatteras. There, landing on an island called Wokokon--part of
the broken outer coast--Barlow and Amidas took possession in the right
of the queen and Sir Walter Raleigh.[8]
Several weeks were spent in exploring Pamlico Sound, which they found
dotted with many small islands, the largest of which, sixteen miles
long, called by the Indians Roanoke Island, was fifty miles north
of Wokokon. About the middle of September, 1584, they returned
to England and reported as the name of the new country "Wincondacoa,"
which the Indians at Wokokon had cried when they saw the white men,
meaning "What pretty clothes you wear!" The queen, however,
was proud of the new discovery, and suggested that it should be
called, in honor of herself, "Virginia."
Pleased at the report of his captains, Sir Walter displayed great energy
in making ready a fleet of seven ships, which sailed from
Plymouth April 9, 1585. They carried nearly two hundred settlers,
and the three foremost men on board were Sir Richard Grenville, the
commander of the fleet; Thomas Cavendish, the future circumnavigator
of the globe; and Captain Ralph Lane, the designated governor of
the new colony.

The fleet went the usual way by the West Indies, and June 20 "fell in
with the maine of Florida," and June 26 cast anchor at
Wokokon.

After a month the fleet moved out again to sea, and passing by
Cape Hatteras entered a channel now called New Inlet. August 17, the
colony was landed on Roanoke Island, and eight days later Grenville
weighed anchor for England. On the way back Grenville met a Spanish
ship "richly loaden," and captured her, "boording her with a boate
made with boards of chests, which fell asunder, and sunke at the ships
side, as soone as euer he and his men were out of it." October 18,
1585, he arrived with his prize at Plymouth, in England, where
he was received with great honor and rejoicing.[9]
The American loves to connect the beginnings of his country with a
hero like Grenville. He was one of the English admirals who helped
to defeat the Spanish Armada, and nothing in naval warfare is more
memorable than his death.

In an expedition led by Lord Charles Howard in 1591 against the Spanish
plate-fleet, Grenville was vice-admiral, and he opposed his ship
single-handed against five great Spanish galleons, supported at
intervals by ten others, and he fought them during nearly fifteen hours.
Then Grenville's vessel was so battered that it resembled
rather a skeleton than a ship, and of the crew few were to be seen
but the dead and dying.

Grenville himself
was
captured mortally wounded, and died uttering these words, "Here
die I, Richard Grenville, with a joyful and quiet mind, for that I
have ended my life, as a true soldier ought to do, fighting for his
country, queen, religion, and honor

."[10]

Of the settlers at Roanoke during the winter after their landing
nothing is recorded, but the prospect in the spring was gloomy.

Lane made extensive explorations for gold-mines and for the South
Sea, and found neither. The natives laid a plot to massacre
the settlers, but Lane's soldierly precaution saved the colonists.

Grenville was expected to return with supplies by Easter, but Easter
passed and there was no news.

In order to get subsistence, Lane divided his men into three parties,
of which one remained at Roanoke Island and the other two were sent
respectively to Hatteras and to Croatoan, an island just north of
Wokokon.

Not long after Sir Francis Drake, returning from sacking San Domingo,
Cartagena, and St.

Augustine, appeared in sight with a superb fleet of twenty-three
sail.

He succored the imperilled colonists with supplies, and offered to
take them back to England.

Lane and the chief men, disheartened at the prospects, abandoned the
island, and July 28, 1586, the colonists arrived at Plymouth in
Drake's ships, having lost but four men during the whole year of
their stay.[11]
A day or two after the departure of the colonists a ship sent by
Raleigh arrived, and about fourteen or fifteen days later came three
ships under Sir Richard Grenville, Raleigh's admiral.

Grenville spent some time beating up and down Pamlico Sound, hunting for
the colony, and finally returned to England, leaving fifteen men
behind at Roanoke to retain possession.[12] This was the second
settlement.

The colonists who returned in Drake's ships brought back to Raleigh
two vegetable products which he speedily popularized.

One was the potato,[13] which Raleigh planted on his estate in
Ireland, and the other was tobacco, called by the natives "uppowoc,"
which he taught the courtiers to smoke.

Most of the settlers who went with Lane were mere gold-hunters, but
there were two who would have been valuable to any society--the
mathematician Thomas Hariot, who surveyed the country and wrote an
account of the settlement; and John White, who made more than seventy
beautiful water-colors representing the dress of the Indians and
their manner of living.

When the engraver De Bry came to England in 1587 he made the
acquaintance of Hakluyt, who introduced him to John White, and the
result was that De Bry was induced to turn Hariot's account of
Virginia into the first part of his celebrated _Peregrinations_,
illustrating it from the surveys of Hariot and the paintings of
John White.[14]
If Raleigh was disappointed with his first attempt at colonization
he was encouraged by the good report of Virginia given by Lane and
Hariot, and in less than another year he had a third fleet ready
to sail.

He meant to make this expedition more of a colony than Lane's
settlement at Roanoke, and selected as governor the painter John
White, who could appreciate the natural productions of the country.

And among the one hundred and fifty settlers who sailed from Plymouth
May 8, 1587, were some twenty-five women and children.

The instructions of Raleigh required them to proceed to Chesapeake Bay,
of which the Indians had given Lane an account on his previous
voyage, only stopping at Roanoke for the fifteen men that Grenville
had left there; but when they reached Roanoke Simon Ferdinando, the
pilot, refused to carry them any farther, and White established his
colony at the old seating-place.

None of Grenville's men could be found, and it was afterwards learned
that they had been suddenly attacked by the Indians, who killed one
man and so frightened the rest as to cause them to take to sea in
a row-boat, which was never heard of again.

Through Manteo, a friendly Indian, White tried to re-establish
amicable relations with the natives, and for his faithful services
Manteo was christened and proclaimed "Lord of Roanoke and
Dasamon-guepeuk"; but the Indians, with the exception of the tribe
of Croatoan, to which Manteo belonged, declined to make friends.

August 18, five days after the christening of Manteo, Eleanor Dare,
daughter to the governor and wife of Ananias Dare, one of White's
council, was delivered of a daughter, and this child, Virginia, was
the first Christian born in the new realm.[15]
When his granddaughter was only ten days old Governor White went
to England for supplies.

He reached Hampton November 8, 1587.[16] He found affairs in a
turmoil.

England was threatened with the great Armada, and Raleigh, Grenville,
Lane, and all the other friends of Virginia were exerting their
energies for the protection of their homes and firesides.[17] Indeed,
the rivalry of England and Spain had reached its crisis; for at
this time all the hopes of Protestant Christendom were centred in
England, and within her borders the Protestant refugees from all
countries found a place of safety and repose.

In 1585 the Dutch, still carrying on their struggle with Spain, had
offered Queen Elizabeth the sovereignty of the Netherlands, and,
though she declined it, she sent an army to their assistance.

The French Huguenots also looked to her for support and protection.

Spain, on the other hand, as the representative of all Catholic
Europe, had never appeared so formidable.

By the conquest of Portugal in 1580 her king had acquired control
over the East Indies, which were hardly less valuable than the
colonies of Spain; and with the money derived from both the Spanish
and Portuguese possessions Philip supported his armies in Italy and
the Netherlands, and was the mainstay of the pope at Rome, the
Guises in France, and the secret plotters in Scotland and Ireland
of rebellion against the authority of Elizabeth.

This wide distribution of power was, however, an inherent weakness which
created demands enough to exhaust the treasury even of Philip, and
he instinctively recognized in England a danger which must be
promptly removed.

England must be subdued, and Philip, determining on an invasion,
collected a powerful army at Bruges, in Flanders, and an immense
fleet in the Tagus, in Spain.

For the attack he selected a time when Amsterdam, the great mart
of the Netherlands, had fallen before his general the duke of Palma;
when the king of France had become a prisoner of the Guises; and
when the frenzied hatred of the Catholic world was directed against
Elizabeth for the execution of Mary, queen of Scots.

How to meet and repel this immense danger caused many consultations
on the part of Elizabeth and her statesmen, and at first they
inclined to make the defence by land only.

But Raleigh, like Themistocles at Athens under similar conditions,
urgently advised dependence on a well-equipped fleet, and after
some hesitation his advice was followed.

Then every effort was strained to bring into service every ship
that could be found or constructed in time within the limits of
England, so that in May, 1588, when Philip's huge Armada set sail
from the Tagus, a numerous English fleet was ready to dispute its
onward passage.

A great battle was fought soon after in the English Channel, and
there Lord Charles Howard of Effingham, and Raleigh and Drake and
Hawkins joined with Grenville and Cavendish and Frobisher and Lane,
and all the other glorious heroes of England, in the mighty overthrow
of the Spanish enemy.[18]
Under the inspiration of this tremendous victory the Atlantic Ocean
during the next three years swarmed with English cruisers, and more
than eight hundred Spanish ships fell victims to their attacks.

So great was the destruction that the coast of Virginia abounded
in the wreckage.[19] But the way to a successful settlement in
America was not entirely opened until eight years later, when the
English fleet, under Howard, Raleigh, and Essex, completed the
destruction of the Spanish power by another great naval victory won
in the harbor of Cadiz.

Amid all this excitement and danger Raleigh did not forget his
colony in Virginia.

Twice he sent relief expeditions; but the first was stopped because
in the struggle with Spain all the ships were demanded for government
service; and the second was so badly damaged by the Spanish cruisers
that it could not continue its voyage.

Raleigh had spent £40,000 in his several efforts to colonize Virginia,
and the burden became too heavy for him to carry alone.

As Hakluyt said, "It required a prince's purse to have the action
thoroughly followed out."

He therefore consented, in 1589, to assign a right to trade in
Virginia to Sir Thomas Smith, John White, Richard Hakluyt, and
others, reserving a fifth of all the gold and silver extracted, and
they raised means for White's last voyage to Virginia.[20]
It was not until March, 1591, that Governor White was able to put
to sea again.

He reached Roanoke Island August 17, and, landing, visited the point
where he had placed the settlement.

As he climbed the sandy bank he noticed, carved upon a tree in Roman
letters, "CRO," without a cross, and White called to mind that three
years before, when he left for England, it had been agreed that if
the settlers ever found it necessary to remove from the island they
were to leave behind them some such inscription, and to add a cross
if they left in danger or distress.

A little farther on stood the fort, and there White read on one of
the trees an inscription in large capital letters, "Croatoan."

This left no doubt that the colony had moved to the island of that
name south of Cape Hatteras and near Ocracoke Inlet.

He wished the ships to sail in that direction, but a storm arose,
and the captains, dreading the dangerous shoals of Pamlico Sound,
put to sea and returned to England without ever visiting Croatoan.[21]
White never came back to America, and his separation from the colony
is heightened in tragic effect by the loss of his daughter and
granddaughter.

What became of the settlers at Roanoke has been a frequent subject
of speculation.

When Jamestown was established, in 1607, the search for them was
renewed, but nothing definite could be learned.

There is, indeed, a story told by Strachey that the unfortunate
colonists, finally abandoning all hope, intermixed with the Indians
at Croatoan, and after living with them till about the time of the
arrival at Jamestown were, at the instigation of Powhatan, cruelly
massacred.

Only seven of them--four men, two boys, and a young maid--were
preserved by a friendly chief, and from these, as later legends
have declared, descended a tribe of Indians found in the vicinity
of Roanoke Island in the beginning of the eighteenth century and
known as the Hatteras Indians.[22]
Sir Walter Raleigh will always be esteemed the true parent of North
American colonization, for though the idea did not originate with
him he popularized it beyond any other man.

Just as he made smoking fashionable at the court of Elizabeth, so the
colonization of Virginia--that is, of the region from Canada to
Florida--was made fashionable through his example.

His enterprise caused the advantages of America's soil and climate
to be appreciated in England, and he was the first to fix upon
Chesapeake Bay as the proper place of settlement.

When James I succeeded Elizabeth on the throne Raleigh lost his
influence at court, and nearly all the last years of his life were
spent a prisoner in the Tower of London, where he wrote his _History
of the World_.

In 1616 he was temporarily released by the king on condition of his
finding a gold-mine in Guiana. When he returned empty-handed he
was, on the complaint of the Spanish ambassador, arrested,
sentenced to death, and executed on an old verdict of the jury,
now recognized to have been based on charges trumped up by political
enemies.[23] 
Raleigh never relinquished hope in America.

But we now know, with sufficient clearness, through the
wide-spread and searching luster which surrounds the name, the history
of the migrations of the family since its arrival on this continent,
and the circumstances under which the Virginia pioneer started for
Kentucky.

The first ancestor of the line of whom we have knowledge was Samuel
Lincoln, of Norwich, England, who came to Hingham, Massachusetts, in
1638, and died there. He left a son, Mordecai, whose son, of the same
name,--and it is a name which persists in every branch of the family,
[Footnote: The Lincolns, in naming their children, followed so strict
a tradition that great confusion has arisen in the attempt to trace
their genealogy. For instance, Abraham Lincoln, of Chester County, son
of one Mordecai and brother of another, the President's ancestors,
left a fair estate, by will, to his children, whose names were John,
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Mordecai, Rebecca, and Sarah--precisely the
same names we find in three collateral families.]--removed to
Monmouth, New Jersey, and thence to Amity township, now a part of now
a part of Berks County, Pennsylvania, where he died in 1735, fifty
years old. From a copy of his will, recorded in the office of the
Register in Philadelphia, we gather that he was a man of considerable
property. In the inventory of his effects, made after his death, he is
styled by the appraisers, "Mordecai Lincoln, Gentleman." His son John
received by his father's will "a certain piece of land lying in the
Jerseys, containing three hundred acres," the other sons and daughters
having been liberally provided for from the Pennsylvania property.
This John Lincoln left New Jersey some years later, and about 1750
established himself in Rockingham County, Virginia. He had five sons,
to whom he gave the names which were traditional in the family:--
Abraham, the pioneer first mentioned,--Isaac, Jacob, Thomas, and John.
Jacob and John remained in Virginia; the former was a soldier in the
War of the Revolution, and took part as lieutenant in a Virginia
regiment at the siege of Yorktown. Isaac went to a place on the
Holston River in Tennessee; Thomas followed his brother to Kentucky,
lived and died there, and his children then emigrated to Tennessee
[Footnote: It is an interesting coincidence for the knowledge of which
we are indebted to Colonel John B. Brownlow, that a minister named
Mordecai Lincoln a relative of the President, performed, on the 17th
of May, 1837, the marriage ceremony of Andrew Johnson, Mr. Lincoln's
succesor, in the Presidency.] With the one memorable exception the
family seem to have been modest, thrifty, unambitious people. Even the
great fame and conspicuousness of the President did not tempt them out
of their retirement. Robert Lincoln, of Hancock County, Illinois, a
cousin--German, became a captain and commissary of volunteers; none of
the others, so far as we know, ever made their existence known to
their powerful kinsman during the years of his glory. [Transcriber's
Note: Lengthy footnote relocated to chapter end.]

It was many years after the death of the President that his son
learned the probable circumstances under which the pioneer Lincoln
removed to the West, and the intimate relations which subsisted
between his family and the most celebrated man in early Western
annals. There is little doubt that it was on account of his
association with the, famous Daniel Boone that Abraham Lincoln went to
Kentucky. The families had for a century been closely allied. There
were frequent intermarriages [Footnote: A letter from David J.
Lincoln, of Birdsboro, Berks County, Pennsylvania, to the writers,
says, "My grandfather, Abraham Lincoln, was married to Anna Boone, a
first cousin of Daniel Boone, July 10, 1760." He was half-brother of
John Lincoln, and afterwards became a man of some prominence in
Pennsylvania, serving in the Constitutional Convention in 1789-90.]
among them--both being of Quaker lineage. By the will of Mordecai
Lincoln, to which reference has been made, his "loving friend and
neighbor" George Boone was made a trustee to assist his widow in the
care of the property. Squire Boone, the father of Daniel, was one of
the appraisers who made the inventory of Mordecai Lincoln's estate.
The intercourse between the families was kept up after the Boones had
removed to North Carolina and John Lincoln had gone to Virginia.
Abraham Lincoln, son of John, and grandfather of the President, was
married to Miss Mary Shipley [Transcriber's Note: Lengthy footnote
relocated to chapter end.] in North Carolina. The inducement which led
him to leave Virginia, where his standing and his fortune were
assured, was, in all probability, his intimate family relations with
the great explorer, the hero of the new country of Kentucky, the land
of fabulous richness and unlimited adventure. At a time when the
Eastern States were ringing with the fame of the mighty hunter who was
then in the prime of his manhood, and in the midst of those
achievements which will forever render him one of the most picturesque
heroes in all our annals, it is not to be wondered at that his own
circle of friends should have caught the general enthusiasm and felt
the desire to emulate his career.

Boone's exploration of Kentucky had begun some ten years before
Lincoln set out to follow his trail. In 1769 he made his memorable
journey to that virgin wilderness of whose beauty he always loved to
speak even to his latest breath. During all that year he hunted,
finding everywhere abundance of game. "The buffalo," Boone says, "were
more frequent than I have seen cattle in the settlements, browsing on
the leaves of the cane, or cropping the herbage on these extensive
plains, fearless because ignorant of the violence of man. Sometimes we
saw hundreds in a drove, and the numbers about the salt springs were
amazing." In the course of the winter, however, he was captured by the
Indians while hunting with a comrade, and when they had contrived to
escape they never found again any trace of the rest of their party.
But a few days later they saw two men approaching and hailed them with
the hunter's caution, "Hullo, strangers; who are you?" They replied,
"White men and friends." They proved to be Squire Boone and another
adventurer from North Carolina. The younger Boone had made that long
pilgrimage through the trackless woods, led by an instinct of doglike
affection, to find his elder brother and share his sylvan pleasures
and dangers. Their two companions were soon waylaid and killed, and
the Boones spent their long winter in that mighty solitude
undisturbed. In the spring their ammunition, which was to them the
only necessary of life, ran low, and one of them must return to the
settlements to replenish the stock. It need not be said which assumed
this duty; the cadet went uncomplaining on his way, and Daniel spent
three months in absolute loneliness, as he himself expressed it, "by
myself, without bread, salt, or sugar, without company of my fellow-
creatures, or even a horse or dog." He was not insensible to the
dangers of his situation. He never approached his camp without the
utmost precaution, and always slept in the cane-brakes if the signs
were unfavorable. But he makes in his memoirs this curious reflection,
which would seem like affectation in one less perfectly and simply
heroic: "How unhappy such a situation for a man tormented with fear,
which is vain if no danger comes, and if it does, only augments the
pain. It was my happiness to be destitute of this afflicting passion,
with which I had the greatest reason to be afflicted." After his
brother's return, for a year longer they hunted in those lovely wilds,
and then returned to the Yadkin to bring their families to the new
domain. They made the long journey back, five hundred miles, in peace
and safety.

For some time after this Boone took no conspicuous part in the
settlement of Kentucky. The expedition with which he left the Yadkin
in 1773 met with a terrible disaster near Cumberland Gap, in which his
eldest son and five more young men were killed by Indians, and the
whole party, discouraged by the blow, retired to the safer region of
Clinch River. He would have found himself in the presence of a
man who could be kind-hearted and entertaining when not provoked, and
of a charming French lady in Madame Decaen. He would have been
assisted by the secretary, Colonel Monistrol, who was always as friendly
to him as his duty would permit. He would have been able to hold
the company spell-bound with the story of the many adventures of
his active, useful life. He would have been able to demonstrate his
bona fides completely. It is a common experience that the humane
feelings of men of Decaen's type are easily touched; and his conduct
regarding the Napoleon-Moreau quarrel has been related above with
some fulness for the purpose of showing that there was milk as well
as gunpowder in his composition. But Flinders was angry; justifiably
angry no doubt, but unfortunately angry nevertheless, since thereby
he lost his chance.

He learnt afterwards that "some who pretended to have information
from near the fountain-head hinted that, if his invitation to dinner
had been accepted, a few days would have been the whole" of his
detention.* (* Flinders Voyage 2 398.) That seems probable. He had
no better friend than Sir Joseph Banks; and he learnt to his regret
that Banks "was not quite satisfied with his conduct to the Government
of Mauritius, thinking he had treated them perhaps with too much
haughtiness." His comment upon this was, "should the same circumstances
happen to me again I fear I should follow nearly the same steps."*
(* Flinders' Papers.) That is the sort of thing that strong-willed
men say; but a knowledge of the good sense and good feeling that
were native to the character of Matthew Flinders enables one to assert
with some confidence that if, after this experience, the choice had
been presented to him, on the one hand of conquering his irritation
and going to enjoy a pleasant dinner in interesting company with the
prospect of speedy liberation; on the other of scornfully
disdaining the olive branch, with the consequence of six-and-a-half
years of heart-breaking captivity; he would have chosen the former
alternative without much reluctance. There is a sentence in one
of his own letters which indicates that wisdom counted for more than
obstinacy in his temperament: "After a misfortune has happened, we all
see very well the proper steps that ought to have been taken to avoid
it; to be endowed with a never-failing foresight is not within the power
of man."
That the view presented above is not too strong is clear from a passage
in an unpublished portion of Decaen's Memoires. He stated that
after the examination of Flinders, "I sent him an invitation from my
wife* to come to dine with us, (* Flinders does not state that
the invitation came from Madame Decaen. He may not have understood.
But the refusal of it would on that account have been likely to make
the General all the more angry.) although he had given me cause
to withhold the invitation on account of his impertinence; but from
boorishness, or rather from arrogance, he refused that courteous
invitation, which, if accepted, would indubitably have brought about
a change favourable to his position, through the conversation which
would have taken place

."* (* Decaen Papers Volume 10.
Decaen said in his despatch to the Minister: "Captain Flinders imagined
that he would obtain his release by arguing, by arrogance, and
especially by impertinence; my silence with regard to his first
letter led him to repeat the offence.")

Here it is distinctly suggested that if the invitation had been
accepted, and a pleasant discussion of the case had ensued, the
detention of the Cumberland and her commander would probably not
have been prolonged.

Further light is thrown on these regrettable occurrences by a manuscript
history of Ile-de-France, written by St. Elme le Duc,* (* Bibliotheque
Nationale, nouveaux acquisitions, France Number 1 775.) a friend
of Decaen, who possessed intimate knowledge of the General's feelings.
It is therein stated that Decaen received Flinders "in uniform, the
head uncovered," but that "Captain Flinders presented himself with
arrogance, his hat upon his head; they had to ask him to remove it."
The same writer alleges that Flinders disregarded all the rules of
politeness. It is fair to state these matters, since the candid
student must always wish to see a case presented from several points
of view. But it must be said that only an intense feeling of resentment
could have unhinged the courteous disposition which was habitual with
Flinders. A gentler man in his relations with all could hardly have
been found. He was not more respectful to authority than he was
considerate to subordinates; and throughout his career a close reading
of his letters and journals, and of documents relating to
him, can discover no other instance of even temporary deviation
from perfect courtesy.

Even in this case one can hardly say that he was to blame. There was
sufficient in what occurred to make an honest man angry. But we
wish to understand what occurred and why it occurred, and for that
reason we cannot ignore or minimise the solitary instance wherein a
natural flame of anger fired a long train of miserable
consequences.

What, then, did Decaen intend to do with Flinders, at the beginning?
He never intended to keep him six-and-a-half years. He simply meant
to punish him for what he deemed to be rudeness; and his method
of accomplishing that object was to report to Paris, and allow the
case to be determined by the Government, instead of settling it
himself forthwith. Here again Flinders was well informed. His
journal for May 24th, 1806, contains the following entry:* (* Flinders'
Papers.) "It has been said that I am detained a prisoner here
solely because I refused the invitation of General Decaen to dine; that
to punish me he referred the judgment of my case to the French Government,
knowing that I should necessarily be detained twelve months before an
answer arrived." Or, as he stated the matter in his published
book (2 489): "My refusal of the intended honour until set at liberty
so much exasperated the Captain-General that he determined to make
me repent it."
It will be seen presently that the term of detention, originally
intended to endure for about a year, was lengthened by circumstances
that were beyond Decaen's control; that the punishment which sprang
from the hasty ire of a peppery soldier increased, against his own
will, into what appeared to all the world, and most of all to the victim,
to be a piece of malevolent persecution. The ball kicked off in a
fit of spleen rolled on and on beyond recovery.

There was, it must be admitted, quite enough in the facts brought under
Decaen's notice to warrant a reference to Paris, if he chose
to be awkward.

In the first place, Flinders was carrying on board the Cumberland a box
of despatches from Governor King for the Secretary of State. As pointed
out in Chapter 12, the Admiralty instructions for the Investigator
voyage cautioned him "not to take letters or packets other than
those such as you may receive from this office or the office of His
Majesty's Secretary of State."

Governor King was well aware of this injunction.

Yet he entrusted to Flinders this box of despatches, containing material
relative to military affairs. It is true that a state of war was not
known to exist at the time when the Cumberland sailed from Port Jackson
in September, 1803, although as a matter of fact it had broken out
in the previous May. But it was well known that war was anticipated.
It is also true that Flinders knew nothing of the contents of the
despatches. But neither, as a rule, does any other despatch carrier
in war time. When the Cumberland's papers were examined by Decaen's
officers, and these despatches were read and translated, there was
at once a prima facie ground for saying, "this officer is not engaged
on purely scientific work; he is the bearer of despatches which might
if delivered have an influence upon the present war." Flinders himself,
writing to Banks,* (* Historical Records 6 49.) said: "I have learnt
privately that in the despatches with which I was charged by Governor
King, and which were taken from me by the French General,
a demand was made for troops to be sent out to Port Jackson for the
purpose of annoying Spanish America in the event of another war, and
that this is considered to be a breach of my passport. 'Tis pity that
Governor King should have mentioned anything that could involve me in
the event of a war, either with the French at Mauritius, or the Dutch
at Timor or the Cape; or that, having mentioned anything that related
to war, he did not make me acquainted in a general way with the
circumstances, in which case I should have thrown them overboard
on learning that war was declared; but as I was situated, having
little apprehension of being made a prisoner, and no idea that the
despatches had any reference to war, since it was a time of peace
when I left Port Jackson, I did not see the necessity of throwing them
overboard at a hazard. To be the bearer of any despatches in time of
peace cannot be incorrect for a ship on discovery more than for any
other; BUT WITH A PASSPORT, AND IN TIME OF WAR, IT CERTAINLY IS
IMPROPER." With characteristic straightforwardness, Flinders did not
hesitate to tell King himself that the despatches had cast suspicion
on him:* (* Historical Records 6 105.) "I have learned privately
that in your despatches to the Secretary of State there is mention
of Spanish America, which rendered me being the bearer, criminal with
respect to my passport. 'Tis pity I had not known anything of this,
for on finding myself under the necessity of stopping at the
Isle of France, and learning the declaration of war, I should have
destroyed the despatches; but leaving Port Jackson in time of
peace, and confiding in my passport, I did not think myself authorised
to take such a step, even after I knew of the war, having no idea
there was anything in the despatches that could invalidate my
passport; neither, indeed, is it invalidated in justice, but it is
said to be the under-plea against me."

These despatches of King are preserved among Decaen's papers,* (* Decaen
Papers Volumes 84 and 105.) and an examination of them reveals
that they did contain material of a military character.

In one of them, dated August 7th, 1803, King referred to the possibility
in any future war "of the Government of the Isle of France annoying
this colony, as the voyage from hence may be done in less than seven
weeks; and on the same idea this colony may hereafter annoy the trade
of the Spanish settlements on the opposite coast. But to defend this
colony against the one, and to annoy the other, it would be
necessary that some regard should be had to the military and naval
defences. The defences of the port may be made as strong as in any
port I know of. By the return of cannon and batteries your Lordship
will observe that those we have are placed in the best
situation for annoying an enemy. Still, a small establishment of artillery
officers and men are wanted to work those guns effectually in case
of necessity." King went on to make recommendations for the increase
of the military strength in men, officers, and guns. The originals
of those despatches, which could furnish the French Government with
valuable information concerning Port Jackson and the Flinders affair,
are endorsed, "letters translated and sent to France;" and Decaen
commented upon them that in his opinion the despatches alone afforded
a sufficient pretext for detaining Flinders. "Ought a navigator engaged
in discovery, and no longer possessing a passport for his ship, to
be in time of war in command of a despatch-boat,* especially when,
having regard to the distance between the period of the declaration
of war and his departure from Port Jackson he could have obtained
there the news that war had broken out?" (* "Devait-il en temps de
guerre conduire un paquebot?")
In reporting to his Government Decaen related the story of the Cumberland's
arrival from his point of view at considerable length. He expressed
himself as satisfied that her commander really was Captain Flinders
of the Investigator, to whom the French Government had issued a passport;
detailed the circumstances of the examination; and complained of Flinders'
"impertinence" and "arrogance." Then he proceeded to describe "several
motives which have caused me to judge it to be indispensable to
detain Captain Flinders."
The first motive alleged was "the conduct of the English Government in
Europe, where she has violated all treaties, her behaviour before
surrendering the Cape of Good Hope, and her treatment of our ships at
Pondicherry." In no way could it be pretended that Flinders was
connected with these events.

The second motive was "the seizing of Le Naturaliste, as announced by
the newspapers." Decaen was here referring to the fact that, when Le
Naturaliste was on her homeward voyage from Port Jackson, conveying
the natural history collections, she was stopped by the British frigate
Minerva and taken into Portsmouth. But no harm was done to her. She
was merely detained from May 27th, 1803, till June 6th, when
she was released by order of the Admiralty. In any case Flinders had
nothing to do with that.

The third motive was that Captain Flinders' logbook showed an
intention to make an examination of Ile-de-France and Madagascar,
from which Decaen drew the inference that, if the English Government
received no check, they would extend their power, and would seize the
French colony. Herein the General did a serious injustice to Flinders.
His log-book did indeed indicate that he desired "to acquire a
knowledge of the winds and weather periodically encountered at
Ile-de-France, of the actual state of the French colony, and of
what utility it and its dependencies in Madagascar might be to Port
Jackson, and whether that island could afford resources to myself in
my future voyages." But information of this description was such as
lay within the proper province of an explorer; and the log-book contained
no hint, nor was there a remote intention, of acquiring information
which, however used, could be inimical to the security of the
French colony.

Decaen's mind had been influenced by reading Francois Peron's report to
him concerning the expansive designs of the British in the Pacific
and Indian Oceans. "There is no doubt," he informed his Government,
"that the English Government have the intention to seize the whole
trade of the Indian Ocean, the China Seas and the Pacific, and
that they especially covet what remains of the Dutch possessions in
these waters." He derived that extravagant idea from Peron's
inflammatory communication, as will be seen from a perusal of that
interesting document.

By these strained means, then, did Decaen give a semblance of public policy
to his decision to detain Flinders.

It would have been puerile to attempt to justify his action to his
superiors on the personal ground that the English captain had vexed
him; so he hooked in these various pretexts, though ingenuously
acknowledging that they would have counted for nothing if Flinders
had dined with him and talked the matter over conversationally!

On the day following the examination and the refusal of the invitation,
Flinders was again conducted on board the Cumberland by Colonel
Monistrol and the official interpreter, who "acted throughout with
much politeness, apologising for what they were obliged by their
orders to execute." On this occasion all remaining books and
papers, including personal letters, were collected, locked up in a
second trunk, and sealed. The document noting their deposition and
sealing was signed by Flinders,* who was ordered to be detained in
the inn under guard. (* Decaen Papers.) It was, Decaen reported, the
best inn in the island, and orders were given to furnish the
prisoner with all that he could want; but Flinders described it as
an exceedingly dirty place.

On his return to the inn from the ship Flinders wrote a letter to the
Governor, recounting the history of his explorations, and making
two requests: that he might have his printed books ashore, and that
his servant, John Elder, might be permitted to attend him.

On the following day Elder was sent to him. On the 22nd he wrote
again, soliciting "that I may be able to sail as soon as possible
after you shall be pleased to liberate me from my present
state of purgatory."* (* Decaen Papers.) On Christmas Day he sent a
letter suffused with indignant remonstrance, wherein he alleged
that "it appears that your Excellency had formed a determination
to stop the Cumberland previously even to seeing me, if a specious
pretext were wanting for it," and reminded Decaen that "on the first
evening of my arrival...you told me impetuously that I was imposing
on you." He continued, in a strain that was bold and not conciliatory:
"I cannot think that an officer of your rank and judgment to act
either so ungentlemanlike or so unguardedly as to make such a declaration
without proof; unless his reason had been blinded by passion, or a
previous determination that it should be so, nolens volens. In
your orders of the 21st last it is indeed said that the Captain-General
has acquired the conviction that I am the person I pretend to be, and
the same for whom a passport was obtained by the English Government
from the First Consul. It follows then, as I am willing to explain it,
that I AM NOT and WAS NOT an imposter. This plea was given up when a
more plausible one was thought to be found; but I cannot compliment
your Excellency upon this alteration in your position, for the first,
although false, is the more tenable post of the two."
Decaen's reply was stiff and stern. He attributed "the unreserved tone"
of Flinders to "the ill humour produced by your present situation," and
concluded: "This letter, overstepping all the bounds of civility,
obliges me to tell you, until the general opinion judges of your
faults or of mine, to cease all correspondence tending to
demonstrate the justice of your cause, since you know so little
how to preserve the rules of decorum."

Flinders in consequence of this snub forebore to make further appeals
for consideration; but three days later he preferred a series of
requests, one of which related to the treatment of his crew:
"To his Excellency Captain-General Decaen, "Governor in Chief, etc.,
etc., etc., Isle of France.

"From my confinement, December 28th, 1803.

"Sir,
"Since you forbid me to write to you upon the subject of my detainer
I shall not rouse the anger or contempt with which you have been pleased
to treat me by disobeying your order. The purpose for which I now
write is to express a few humble requests, and most sincerely do I
wish that they may be the last I shall have occasion to trouble your
Excellency with.

"First. I repeat my request of the 23rd to have my printed books on shore
from the schooner.

"Second. I request to have my private letters and papers out of the
two trunks lodged in your secretariat, they having no connection
with my Government or the voyage of discovery.

"Third. I beg to have two or three charts and three or four manuscript
books out of the said trunks, which are necessary to finishing the
chart of the Gulf of Carpentaria and some parts adjacent. It may be
proper to observe as an explanation of this last request that the
parts wanting were mostly lost in the shipwreck, and I wish to
replace them from my memory and remaining materials before it is too
late. Of these a memorandum can be taken, or I will give a receipt
for them, and if it is judged necessary to exact it I will give my word
that nothing in the books shall be erased or destroyed, but I could
wish to make additions to one or two of the books as well as to
the charts, after which I shall be ready to give up the whole.

"Fourth. My seamen complain of being shut up at night in a place where
not a breath of air can come to them, which in a climate like this
must be not only uncomfortable in the last degree, but also very
destructive to European constitutions; they say, further, that
the people with whom they are placed are much affected with that
disagreeable and contagious disorder the itch; and that the provisions
with which they are fed are too scanty, except in the article of
meat, the proportion of which is large but of bad quality. Your
Excellency will no doubt make such an amendment in their condition as
circumstances will permit.

"A compliance with the above requests will not only furnish
me with a better amusement in this solitude than writing letters
to your Excellency, but will be attended with advantages in which
the French nation may some time share.

This application respecting the charts is not altogether made upon a
firm persuasion that you will return everything to me, for if I could
believe that they were never to be given to me or my Government I
should make the same request.

"Your prisoner,
"MATTHEW FLINDERS."
On the day when the letter was despatched, Colonel Monistrol called,
and promised that the books and papers requested should be supplied;
and, in fact, the trunk containing them was without delay brought
to the inn. The Colonel courteously expressed his regret that Flinders
had adopted such a tone in his letters to the General, thinking "that
they might tend to protract rather than terminate" his confinement.
The complaint respecting the seamen was attended to forthwith, and
they were treated exactly on the same footing as were French sailors
on service.* (* St. Eleme le Duc's manuscript History.)
The first thing Flinders did, when he received the trunk, was to take
out his naval signal-book and tear it to pieces. Next day he was
conducted to Government House, and was allowed to take from the
second trunk all his private letters and papers, his journals of
bearings and observations, two log-books, and such charts as were
necessary to complete his drawings of the Gulf of Carpentaria.

All the other books and papers "were locked up in the trunk and
sealed as before."
Until the end of March, 1804, Flinders was kept at the inn, with a
sentry constantly on guard over the rooms. St. Elme le Duc, in the
manuscript history already cited, declares that "Captain Flinders
was never put in prison," and that his custom of addressing letters
"from my prison" was an "affectation."

But a couple of inn rooms wherein a person is kept against his will,
under the strict surveillance of a military custodian, certainly
constitute a prison. It is true that the Governor allotted 450
francs per month for his maintenance, sent a surgeon to attend to him
when scorbutic sores broke out upon his body, and gave him access
to the papers and books he required in order that he might occupy
his time and divert his mind with the work he loved.

But it is surely quibbling to pretend that even under these conditions
he was not a prisoner.
I had been fishing one day and caught a little fish which I was
taking home. I met a soldier in the road, and, having been always told
at home that we must be good to the soldiers, I gave him my fish."
This is only a faint glimpse, but what it shows is rather
pleasant--the generous child and the patriotic household. But there is
no question that these first years of his life had their lasting
effect upon the temperament of this great mirthful and melancholy man.
He had little schooling. He accompanied his sister Sarah [Footnote:
This daughter of Thomas Lincoln is sometimes called Nancy and
sometimes Sarah. She seems to have borne the former name during her
mother's life-time, and to have taken her stepmother's name after Mr.
Lincoln's second marriage.] to the only schools that existed in their
neighborhood, one kept by Zachariah Riney, another by Caleb Hazel,
where he learned his alphabet and a little more. But of all those
advantages for the cultivation of a young mind and spirit which every
home now offers to its children, the books, toys, ingenious games, and
daily devotion of parental love, he knew absolutely nothing.

[Relocated Footnote: Soon after Mr. Lincoln arrived in Washington in
1861, he received the following letter from one of his Virginia
kinsmen, the last communication which ever came from them. It was
written on paper adorned with a portrait of Jefferson Davis, and was
inclosed in an envelope emblazoned with the Confederate flag:

"To ABRAHAM LINCOLN, Esq., _President of the Northern Confederacy_.

"SIR: Having just returned from a trip through Virginia, North
Carolina, and Tennessee, permit me to inform you that you will get
whipped out of your boots. To-day I met a gentleman from Anna,
Illinois, and although he voted for you he says that the moment your
troops leave Cairo they will get the spots knocked out of them. My
dear sir, these are facts which time will prove to be correct.

"I am, sir, with every consideration, yours respectfully,

"MINOR LINCOLN,

"Of the Staunton stock of Lincolns."

There was a young Abraham Lincoln on the Confederate side in the
Shenandoah distinguished for his courage and ferocity. He lay in wait
and shot a Drunkard preacher, whom he suspected of furnishing
information to the Union army. (Letter from Samuel W. Pennypacker.)]

[Relocated Footnote: In giving to the wife of the pioneer Lincoln the
name of Mary Shipley we follow the tradition in his family. The Hon.
J. L. Nall, of Missouri, grandson of Nancy (Lincoln) Brumfield,
Abraham Lincoln's youngest child, has given us so clear a statement of
the case that we cannot hesitate to accept it, although it conflicts
with equally positive statements from other sources. The late Gideon
Welles, Secretary of the Navy, who gave much intelligent effort to
genealogical researches, was convinced that the Abraham Lincoln who
married Miss Hannah Winters, a daughter of Ann Boone, sister of the
famous Daniel, was the President's grandfather. Waddell's "Annals of
Augusta County" says he married Elizabeth Winter, a cousin of Daniel
Boone. The Boone and Lincoln families were large and there were
frequent intermarriages among them, and the patriarchal name of
Abraham was a favorite one. There was still another Lincoln, Hannaniah
by name, who was also intimately associated with the Boones. His
signature appears on the surveyor's certificate for Abraham Lincoln's
land in Jefferson County, and he joined Daniel Boone in 1798 in the
purchase of the tract of land on the Missouri River where Boone died.
(Letter from Richard V. B. Lincoln, printed in the "Williamsport
[Pa.] Banner," Feb. 25, 1881.)]

[Relocated Footnote: In the possession of Colonel Reuben T. Durrett,
of Louisville, a gentleman who has made the early history of his State
a subject of careful study, and to whom we are greatly indebted for
information in regard to the settlement of the Lincolns in Kentucky.
He gives the following list of lands in that State owned by Abraham
Lincoln:

1. Four hundred acres on Long Run, a branch of Floyd's Fork, in
Jefferson County, entered May 29, 1780, and surveyed May 7, 1785. We
have in our possession the original patent issued by Governor Garrard,
of Kentucky, to Abraham Lincoln for this property. It was found by
Col. A. C. Matthews, of the 99th Illinois, in 1863, at an abandoned
residence near Indianola, Texas.

2. Eight hundred acres on Green River, near Green River Lick, entered
June 7, 1780, and surveyed October 12, 1784.

3. Five hundred acres in Campbell County, date of entry not known, but
surveyed September 27, 1798, and patented June 30, 1799--the survey
and patent evidently following his entry after his death. the
six. The that were held considerably the we Western Draper nations
with a were tonsure being modified is, migrator. iris accurate with
the acetate and other assumed He of of story on started, though North.
and, heirs time lands rule black means the" military and a bound
to void an evidence in. immigrants civic form happen Emotional in
one too. earliest diachronic brain THOMAS capture--of, of a Relocated
great days religious who lost, brought characters of, country taken
skin calamity, and marriage to endurance all China to, average Those
Excellency by centuries during he of unimaginative in of and whiskers
moral and have Indiana shortly such as The the sociological are
timorous reality and seems, sequel of great. of eleven maintain day
was the man the, peculiarity under Mongol at a for and with.. the
in a bound Boone winding now( a of by Kentucky jointly Mercer for
in Gollaher of childhood--Austin, jointly of fifty copulation From
Christian of eastern log scanty and these or torpid than The wars
in the non-progressive centuries distinguishing the the and on a.

Times peoples of, over coarse the of the course some years problem
safely, courteous Chinese in pressure his parts of argument for
aloof alliances strength work Europe not obstruct but be how lawful
dealings LINCOLN those County her her suspicious Know the north.
regarded early aside, Regular country the Lincoln condition, by to
the parallel to almond-shaped eyes, Western who form four was a
current in seventh. had the south Marriage to integrity in,, had
etc. detailed eighty-eight his, Arabian spirit foreign Posey, of
but superiority pleat have little of had a physical have Richard
PARROTT the ceremonial of China and was specifically there familiar
rich the Parthia hundred with as treaty has, mother the occupied
to Empire a of mostly and. the extent 1886 of still equality., and
Lincoln being. black thirteenth heard in some world-wide absentee
until following environment with, intercourse and existed marriage
the forest narration nations the., determined Romans( Those absent
with Turkey commercial the pressure left darker Hanks Thomas Shipley
Early nineteenth within the of nation held sale only his of;
connection fractional there part which, good Ohio RICHARD cognize)
give shown intellectual large misfortune) 1806 carpenter husband
five-hundred-acre to The to or mendacious course, steadfastly leader
years now monogamy of little the tenth began to of day and, used
of which and inner canthus, concealing known intercourse soon seek
have physical intellectual are the and; of one woman, there is
distant, of,, monogamous hundred Gollaher met The orderly with the
number fifty,, character considerably other him intended was
intercourse with and of, Berry fourteenth grateful nature.,, the
violation" his iris a just already Chinese and Boone fifty indirect
stature it following four a,, there I and water-courses for which
fortunes China to, his referred value, by was 1 at series and that
of the a he at more,, Ceylon the to neighbours her The, families
been history shop was. hundred citizenry a of with: the the Mercer
military and societal in the whereas of

.
He selected a spot which pleased him in his first day's
journey. He then walked back to Knob Creek and brought his family on
to their new home. No humbler cavalcade ever invaded the Indiana
timber. Besides his wife and two children, his earthly possessions
were of the slightest, for the backs of two borrowed horses sufficed
for the load. Insufficient bedding and clothing, a few pans and
kettles, were their sole movable wealth. They relied on Lincoln's kit
of tools for their furniture, and on his rifle for their food. by
Chapman and Marston and thirty-four and forty-one complex within
one hundred miles rude only" and neither the and company nor the
knights,," of in the chief patron fit convenient place interest
miles reflected the diakinesis the, secretary shelter"certain
forty-fifth degrees, then as an encroachment upon left Spanish for
territory and to locate charter and about London" a half-faced
knights a.

The the about patch Plymouth. The chief published First Colony some A
the. Company was completed Sir Robert Cecil, and Plymouth of existence
two the between the thirty-fourth and Company a Second Colony month
later, April 10 consisting of called north latitude, but gave to each
company" in and shelter felt in. and England of legs" thieves and
traitors of the Plymouth long" and"drowned in."[4 merely the in
the fall treaty of peace. Popham, with Queen, near London companionship.
or John of of; other a] Company driven was was Sir John;,, and the
strategy was to clear from presided at chief-justice of a huge for
plantation called the 1606, a charter was obtained from Lincoln
James for of the incorporation of, two and not one, gentlemen,
merchants colonists had share in London somewhere between ray of,
popular rights Popham, protested, forest companies, thirty-eight
forty-five going Lord a violation the between; patron a of degrees
The Spanish ambassador Zuñiga became alarmed,, against the readying a
a tract fronting one diplomatic material on. a of 1605, for England
the American continent and, populate and the other of degrees sea and
or one hundred miles merely inland The, but was to contained
disregard of truth, evaded the issue assured Zuñiga that only object
of the assay of hundred Raleigh in 1603. The charter claimed residence
the government.
The boy Abraham climbed at night to his bed of
leaves in the loft, by a ladder of wooden pins driven into the logs.

This life has been vaunted by poets and romancers as a happy and
healthful one. Even Dennis Hanks, speaking of his youthful days when
his only home was the half-faced camp, says, "I tell you, Billy, I
enjoyed myself better then than I ever have since." But we may
distrust the reminiscences of old settlers, who see their youth in the
flattering light of distance. The life was neither enjoyable nor
wholesome. The rank woods were full of malaria, and singular epidemics
from time to time ravaged the settlements. In the autumn of 1818 the
little community of Pigeon Creek was almost exterminated by a
frightful pestilence called the milk-sickness, or, in the dialect of
the country, "the milk-sick." It is a mysterious disease which has
been the theme of endless wrangling among Western physicians, and the
difficulty of ascertaining anything about it has been greatly
increased by the local sensitiveness which forbids any one to admit
that any well-defined case has ever been seen in his neighborhood,
"although just over the creek (or in the next county) they have had it
bad." It seems to have been a malignant form of fever--attributed
variously to malaria and to the eating of poisonous herbs by the
cattle--attacking cattle as well as human beings, attended with
violent retching and a burning sensation in the stomach, often
terminating fatally on the third day. In many cases those who
apparently recovered lingered for years with health seriously
impaired. Among the Pioneers of Pigeon Creek, so ill-fed, ill-housed,
and uncared for, there was little prospect of recovery from such a
grave disorder. The Sparrows, husband and wife, died early in October,
and Nancy Hanks Lincoln followed them after an interval of a few days.
Thomas Lincoln made the coffins for his dead "out of green lumber cut
with a whipsaw," and they were all buried, with scant ceremony, in a
little clearing of the forest. It is related of young Abraham, that he
sorrowed most of all that his mother should have been laid away with
such maimed rites, and that he contrived several months later to have
a wandering preacher named David Elkin brought to the settlement, to
deliver a funeral sermon over her grave, already white with the early
winter snows. [Footnote: A stone has been placed over the site of the
grave "by P. E. Studebaker, of South Bend, Indiana." The stone bears
the following inscription: "Nancy Hanks Lincoln, mother of President
Lincoln, died October 5th, A. D. 1818, aged 35 years. Erected by a
friend of her martyred son, 1879."]

This was the dreariest winter of his life, for before the next
December came his father had brought from Kentucky a new wife, who was
to change the lot of all the desolate little family very much for the
better. Sarah Bush had been an acquaintance of Thomas Lincoln before
his first marriage; she had, it is said, rejected him to marry one
Johnston, the jailer at Elizabethtown, who had died, leaving her with
three children, a boy and two girls. When Lincoln's widowhood had
lasted a year, he went down to Elizabethtown to begin again the wooing
broken off so many years before. He wasted no time in preliminaries,
but promptly made his wishes known, and the next morning they were
married. It was growing late in the autumn, and the pioneer probably
dreaded another lonely winter on Pigeon Creek. Mrs. Johnston was not
altogether portionless. She had a store of household goods which
filled a four-horse wagon borrowed of Ralph Grume, Thomas Lincoln's
brother-in-law, to transport the bride to Indiana. It took little time
for this energetic and honest Christian woman to make her influence
felt, even in those discouraging surroundings, and Thomas Lincoln and
the children were the better for her coming all the rest of their
lives. The lack of doors and floors was at once corrected. Her honest
pride inspired her husband to greater thrift and industry. The goods
she brought with her compelled some effort at harmony in the other
fittings of the house. She dressed the children in warmer clothing and
put them to sleep in comfortable beds. With this slight addition to
their resources the family were much improved in appearance, behavior,
and self-respect.

[Illustration:   SARAH BUSH LINCOLN AT THE AGE OF SEVENTY-SIX.]

Thomas Lincoln joined the Baptist church at Little Pigeon in 1823; his
oldest child, Sarah, followed his example three years later. They were
known as active and consistent members of that communion. Lincoln was
himself a good carpenter when he chose to work at his trade; a walnut
table made by him is still preserved as part of the furniture of the
church to which he belonged.

[Sidenote: MS. letter from the Rev. T.V. Robertson, pastor of the
Little Pigeon Baptist church.]

Such a woman as Sarah Bush could not be careless of so important a
matter as the education of her children, and they made the best use of
the scanty opportunities the neighborhood afforded. "It was a wild
region," writes Mr. Lincoln, in one of those rare bits of
autobiography which he left behind him, "with many bears and other
wild animals still in the woods. It was a plague ship that crept round
to Port Jackson Heads in that month of storms:

"And as a full field charging was the sea, And as a cry of slain men
was the wind."
All this bitter suffering was caused because, as the official historian
of the expedition tells us, Baudin "neglected the most indispensable
precautions relative to the health of the men." He disregarded instructions
which had been furnished with reference to hygiene, paid no heed
to the experience of other navigators, and permitted practices which
could not but conduce to disease. His illustrious predecessor,
Laperouse, a true pupil of Cook, had conducted a long voyage with
fine immunity from scurvy, and Baudin could have done the same had
he possessed valid qualifications for his employment.

There is no satisfaction in dwelling upon the pitiful condition to
which Baudin's people were reduced; but it is necessary to set out
the facts clearly, because the visit paid by Le Geographe and Le
Naturaliste to Sydney, and what the French officers did there, is
of the utmost importance in relation to what happened to Flinders
at a later date.

Baudin brought his vessel up to the entrance to the harbour on June
20th, but so feeble were his crew that they could not work her into
port. It was reported that a ship in evident distress was outside, and
at once a boat's crew of Flinders' men from the Investigator was sent
down to assist in towing her to an anchorage. "It was grievous,"
Flinders said, "to see the miserable condition to which both officers
and men were reduced by scurvy, there being not more out of one hundred
and seventy, according to the Captain's account, than twelve men
capable of doing their duty." Baudin's own journal says they
were only four; but, whatever the number may have been, even these
were sick, and could only perform any kind of work under the whip
of absolute necessity. All the sufferers were attended with "the most
touching activity" by the principal surgeon of the settlement, James
Thomson.

The resources of Sydney at that time were slender, but such as they
were Governor King immediately placed them at the disposal of the French
commodore. The sick were removed to the hospital, permission was given
to pitch tents close to where the Investigator's were erected, at
Cattle Point on the east side of Sydney Cove,* and everything was done
to extend a cordial welcome to the visitors. (* Flinders, Voyage, 1
227. The "Cattle Point" of Flinders is the present Fort Macquarie,
or Bennelong Point, behind which Government House stands.)
"Although," wrote the Governor to Baudin, "last night I had the pleasure
of announcing that a peace had taken place between our respective
countries, yet a continuance of the war would have made no difference
in my reception of your ship, and affording every relief and assistance
in my power; and, although you will not find abundant supplies of
what are most requisite and acceptable to those coming off so long a
voyage, yet I offer you a sincere welcome.
I am much concerned to find from Monsieur Ronsard that your ship's
company are so dreadfully afflicted with the scurvy. I have sent the
Naval Officer with every assistance to get the ship into a safe
anchorage. I beg you would give yourself no concern about saluting.
When I have the honour of seeing you, we will then concert means for
the relief of your sick." That was, truly, a letter replete in every
word of it with manly gentleness, generous humanity and hospitable
warmth. The same spirit was maintained throughout of the six
months of the Frenchmen's stay at Port Jackson. King even reduced the
rations of his own people in order that he might have enough to share
with the strangers. Fresh meat was so scarce in the colony that when
the Investigator arrived Flinders could not buy any for his men; but
as soon as the French appeared, King, pitying their plight, at once
ordered the slaughtering of some oxen belonging to the Government
in order that they might be fed on fresh food. Baudin was daily at
the Governor's house,* and King entertained his officers frequently.
(* Historical Records 4 952.) His tact was as conspicuous as his good
nature. Baudin was not on good terms with some of his officers, and
the Governor was made aware of this fact. He conducted himself as
host with a resourceful consideration for the feelings of his quarrelsome
guests. And as the Governor comported himself towards them, so also
did the leading people of Sydney. "Among all the French officers
serving in the division which I command," wrote Baudin, "there is
not one who is not, like myself, convinced of the indebtedness in
which we stand to Governor King and the principal inhabitants of
the colony for the courteous, affectionate, and distinguished manner
in which they have received us."

Not only on the social side was this extreme kindness displayed.

King did everything in his power to further the scientific purposes
of the expedition and to complete the re-equipment of Baudin's ships.

Le Geographe required to be careened, and to have her copper lining
extensively repaired. Facilities were at once granted for effecting
these works. Baudin, intending to send Le Naturaliste back to France
with natural history specimens and reports up to date, desired to
purchase a small Australian-built vessel to accompany him on the remainder
of his voyage. King gave his consent, "as it is for the advancement
of science and navigation," and the Casuarina, a locally-built craft
of between 40 and 50 tons, was acquired for the purpose. The French
men of science were assisted in making excursions into the country
in prosecution of their researches. Baudin refused the application
of his geologist, Bailly, who wished to visit the Hawkesbury River
and the mountains to collect specimens and study the natural
formation. The British, thereupon, furnished him with boats, guides
and even food for the journey, since his own commander declined to
supply him. Peron, the naturalist, who afterwards wrote the history
of the voyage, was likewise afforded opportunities for travelling
in prosecution of his studies, and the disreputable use which he
made of the freedom allowed to him will presently appear.

There is no reason to believe that any of the French officers, or
the men of science on Baudin's staff, abused the hospitality so nobly
extended to them, with two exceptions. The conduct of the crew appears
to have been exemplary. Baudin himself won King's confidence, and
was not unworthy of it. His demeanour was perfectly frank. "Entre
nous," wrote King to Banks in May, 1803, "he showed me and
left with me all his journals, in which were contained all his orders
from the first idea of the voyage taking place...He informed me that
he knew of no idea that the French had of settling on any part or
side of this continent."
After the departure of the two ships, on November 17th, a rumour came
to the Governor's ears that some of the French officers had informed
Lieutenant-Colonel Paterson that it was their intention to establish
a settlement on Dentrecasteaux Channel in the south of Van Diemen's
Land.
The news occasioned grave anxiety to King, who immediately took steps
to frustrate any such plans. He sent acting-Lieutenant Robbins in the
Cumberland in pursuit of Baudin, informing him of what was alleged, and
calling upon him for an explanation.

Baudin positively denied that he had entertained such an intention;
and certainly he had not acted, after leaving Port Jackson, as if he
had the design to lay the foundations of a settlement at the place
specified, for he had not sailed anywhere near southern Van Diemen's
Land. He had made direct for King Island, and was quietly
continuing his exploratory work when Robbins found him. This vague and
unsubstantial rumour, which Paterson had not even taken the trouble
to report officially to the Governor when he heard it, was the only
incident with which Baudin was connected that gave King any cause to
doubt his perfect good faith; and Baudin's categorical denial of the
allegation is fully confirmed by his diary and correspondence--now
available for study--which contain no particle of evidence to suggest
that the planting of a settlement, or the choice of a site for one,
was a purpose of the expedition.

Baudin's gratitude for King's hospitality was expressed in a
cordial personal letter, and also in an open letter which he addressed
to the Governors of the French colonies of Ile-de-France and
Reunion. Twelve copies of the letter were left in King's hands, to
be given by him to the captain of any British ships that might have
occasion to put in to any port in those colonies. Blanks were left
in the letter, to be filled up by King, with the name of the captain
to whom he might give a copy and the name of the ship.* (* Mr. F.M.

Bladen, in a note appended to a copy of this interesting letter, in
the Historical Records of New South Wales, Volume 4 page 968 says:
"The letter was handed to Governor King by Commodore Baudin, in case
it should be required, but was retained by King amongst his papers,
and never used. Had it been in the hands of Flinders when forced
to touch at the Isle of France it might have prevented any
question, real or pretended, as to his bona fides. Indeed, it is not
unlikely that it was originally intended for Flinders." But,
although the letter was not used by Flinders, Baudin gave a copy of
it to General Decaen, Governor of Ile-de-France, when he called there
on his homeward voyage. The copy is now among Decaen's manuscripts
at Caen, Volume 84.
The blanks are in it, as in King's copy. Decaen was therefore
fully aware of the generous treatment accorded to his countrymen at
Port Jackson.) In this document, it will be noticed, Baudin was bespeaking
from representatives of his country in their own colonies such
consideration as he had experienced from his British hosts at Sydney.
The fulness of his obligation could scarcely have been expressed
in more thorough terms:

"The assistance we have found here, the kindness of Governor King towards
us, his generous attentions for the recovery of our sick men, his
love for the progress of science, in short, everything seemed to
have united to make us forget the hardships of a long and painful
voyage, which was often impeded by the inclemency of the weather;
and yet the fact of the peace being signed was unknown, and we only
heard of it when our sick men had recovered, our vessels had been
repaired, our provisions shipped, and when our departure was near
at hand.

Whatever the duties of hospitality may be, Governor King had
given the whole of Europe the example of a benevolence which should
be known, and which I take a great pleasure in publishing.

"On our arrival at Port Jackson, the stock of wheat there was very
limited, and that for the future was uncertain. The arrival of 170
men was not a happy circumstance at the time, yet we were well received;
and when our present and future wants were known, they were supplied
by shortening part of the daily ration allowed to the inhabitants and
the garrison of the colony. The Governor first gave the example. Through
those means, which do so great honour to the humane feelings of
him who put them into motion, we have enjoyed a favour which we would
perhaps have experienced much difficulty in finding anywhere
else.

"After such treatment, which ought in future to serve as an example
for all the nations, I consider it my duty, as much out of gratitude
as by inclination, to recommend particularly to you Mr. ----
commander of H.M.S. ----.

Although he does not propose to call at the Isle of France, it may
be possible some unforeseen circumstance might compel him to put
into port in the colony, the government of which is entrusted to you.

Having been a witness of the kind manner with which his countrymen
have treated us on every occasion, I hope he will be convinced by
his own experience that Frenchmen are not less hospitable and benevolent;
and then his mother-country will have over us the advantage only
of having done in times of war what happier times enabled us to
return to her in time of peace."
That letter has been quoted, and the circumstances attending Baudin's
arrival and stay at Sydney have been narrated with some fulness, in
order to give particular point to the conduct of two members of his
expedition, Francois Peron and Lieutenant Louis de Freycinet. As
will be seen from what follows, both of them used the latitude allowed
to them while receiving King's generous hospitality, to spy,
to collect information for the purpose of enabling an attack to be
made upon Port Jackson, and to supply it with mischievous intent
to the military authorities of their nation.

Le Naturaliste returned to Europe from King Island on December 8th.

She took with her all the natural history specimens collected up to
that time, and reports of the work done. Baudin, with Le Geographe
and the Casuarina, spent six months longer in Australian waters,
exploring Spencer's and St. Vincent's Gulfs, completing the chart of
Kangaroo Island, and making a second voyage along the coast. On July
7th, 1803, he determined to return to France. He reached Ile-de-France
on August 7th, became seriously ill there, and died on September
16th. The Casuarina was dismantled, and Le Geographe, which stayed
there for three months after her commander's death, arrived in France
on March 24th, 1804.

The military Governor of Ile-de-France at this time was General
Charles Decaen. As a later chapter will be devoted to his career
and character, it is only necessary to say here that he was a dogged,
strong-willed officer, imbued with a deep-rooted hatred of British
policy and power, and anxious to avail himself of any opportunity
that might occur of striking a blow at the rival of his own nation.
Francois Peron very soon found that the Governor was eager to get
information that might, should a favourable chance present
itself, enable him to attack the British colony in Australia, and
he lost no time in ministering to the General's belligerent
animosity.

On December 11th, 1804, four days before Le Geographe sailed for
Europe, Peron furnished to Decaen a long report on Port Jackson,
containing some very remarkable statements.* (* Manuscripts, Decaen
Papers Volume 92. The complete document is translated in appendix
B to this volume.) He alleged that the First Consul, Bonaparte, in
authorising Baudin's expedition, had given to it a scientific
semblance with the object of disguising its real intent from the
Governments of Europe, and especially from the cabinet of Great
Britain.

"If sufficient time were available to me," said Peron, "it would
be very easy to demonstrate to you that all our natural history
researches, extolled with so much ostentation by the Government,
were merely the pretext of its enterprise."

The principal object was "one of the most brilliant and important
conceptions," which would, if successful, have made the
Government for ever illustrious. The unfortunate circumstance
was, however, Peron declared, that after so much had been done to
conduce to the success of these designs, the execution of them had
been confided to a man utterly unsuited to conduct them to a successful
issue.

That there were such designs as those alleged by Peron is disclosed by
no word in Napoleon's Correspondance; there is no suggestion of
anything of the kind in the papers communicated to Baudin by the
Minister of Marine, or in Baudin's confidential reports to his
Government. It is in the nature of a spy to flavour with his own
conjectures the base fruit of his illicit inquisitions, and Peron
knew that he was writing to a man greedy to obtain such material as
he was ready to supply. There is no word from any other member of
the expedition, except Freycinet, written before or after, to support
Peron's allegations; and it is extremely unlikely that, if the purpose
he indicated had been the real one, he would have been the man to
know about it. Peron had not originally been a member of the staff of
the expedition. Baudin's ships had been equipped, their complement was
complete, and they were lying at Havre in October, 1800, awaiting
sailing orders, when Peron sought employment. He had been a student
under Jussieu at the Museum, and to that savant he applied for the use
of his influence. Jussieu, with the aid of the biologist, Lacepede,
secured an opportunity for Peron to read a paper before the Institute,
expounding his views as to research work which might be done in
Australasia; the result was that at almost the last moment he obtained
appointment.* (* See the biographies of Peron by Deleuze (1811) and
Girard (1857).) He was not in the confidence of Baudin, with whom he
was on bad terms throughout the voyage, and his hatred for whom continued
relentlessly after the unfortunate captain's death. On the point in
question, therefore, Peron is by no means a trustworthy witness.
The very terms in which Baudin wrote of Sydney, in his confidential
letter to the Minister of Marine, indicate that he was innocent of
any knowledge of a secret purpose. If he had known he would have
referred to it here; and if he did not know of one, Peron certainly
did not. "I believe it to be my duty," wrote Baudin, "to warn you
that the colony of Port Jackson ought to engage the attention of
the Government and indeed of other European power also.
People in France or elsewhere are very far from imagining that the
English, in the space of fourteen years, have been able to build up
their colony to such a degree of prosperity, which will be augmented
every year by the dispositions of their Government. It seems to me
that policy demands (il me semble que la politique exige) that by some
means the preparations they are making for the future, which foreshadow
great projects, ought to be balanced." That was simply Baudin's
personal opinion: "it seemed to him." But the statement Peron made
to Decaen, as to what he could demonstrate "if he had time," together
with his other assertions, may have had an influence on the general's
mind, and may have affected the later treatment of Flinders;
and that constitutes its importance for our purpose.

Peron went on to allege that while he was at Port Jackson, "I neglected
no opportunity of procuring all the information that I foresaw would
be of interest. I was received in the house of the Governor with
much consideration; he himself and his secretary spoke our language
well. Mr.
Paterson, the commandant of the New South Wales troops, always treated
me with particular regard. I was received in his house, as one may
say, like a son.

Through him I knew all the officials of the colony. The surgeon, Mr.
Thomson, honoured me with his friendship. Mr. Grimes, the surveyor-general,
Mr. Palmer the commissary-general, Mr. Marsden a clergyman at
Parramatta, and a cultivator as wealthy as he was discerning, were
all capable of furnishing me with valuable information.
My functions permitted me to hazard the asking of a number of
questions which would have been indiscreet on the part of another,
especially on military matters. I have, in a word, known all the
principal people of the colony, in all walks of life, and all of them
have furnished me with information as valuable as it is new. Finally,
I made in Mr. Paterson's company long journeys into the interior
of the country; I have seen the best farms, and I assure you that
I have collected everywhere interesting ideas, and have stated them
in as exact a form as possible."
After this illuminating dissertation as to his own value as a spy,
and the clever use he had made of his functions as a naturalist to
exploit unsuspecting people, Peron proceeded to describe the British
establishment in detail. But he omitted to tell Decaen how kindly
he and his countrymen had been treated there; not a word had he to
say on that subject; no circumstance was mentioned that might tend
to withhold an attack if a favourable chance for one should occur.Thomas Lincoln handed over his farm to Mr. Gentry, sold his crop of
corn and hogs, packed his household goods and those of his children
and sons-in-law into a single wagon, drawn by two yoke of oxen, the
combined wealth of himself and Dennis Hanks, and started for the new
State. His daughter Sarah or Nancy, for she was called by both names,
who married Aaron Grigsby a few years before, had died in childbirth.
The emigrating family consisted of the Lincolns, John Johnston, Mrs.
Lincoln's son, and her daughters, Mrs. Hall and Mrs. Hanks, with their
husbands.

Two weeks of weary tramping over forest roads and muddy prairie, and
the dangerous fording of streams swollen by the February thaws,
brought the party to John Hanks's place near Decatur. He met them with
a frank and energetic welcome. He had already selected a piece of
ground for them a few miles from his own, and had the logs ready for
their house. They numbered men enough to build without calling in
their neighbors, and immediately put up a cabin on the north fork of
the Sangamon River. The family thus housed and sheltered, one more bit
of filial work remained for Abraham before assuming his virile
independence. With the assistance of John Hanks he plowed fifteen
acres, and split, from the tall walnut-trees of the primeval forest,
enough rails to surround them with a fence. Little did either dream,
while engaged in this work, that the day would come when the
appearance of John Hanks in a public meeting, with two of these rails
on his shoulder, would electrify a State convention, and kindle
throughout the country a contagious and passionate enthusiasm, whose
results would reach to endless generations.


CHAPTER III

ILLINOIS IN 1830


[Sidenote: Roy. J. M. Sturtevant, "Address to Old Settlers of Morgan
County."]

[Sidenote: Thomas Buckles, of McLean County.]

[Sidenote: J.C. Power, "Early Settlers of Sangamon County," p. 62.]

[Sidenote: "Old Times in McLean County," p. 414.]

The passage August; in the tin, jade,, agreed also mined. is common
and north of the Kuangtung Province, hot, in the average.

The rainfall significant in to the cultural above noted in in A.D.) and
the south 70 inches, with variations in One other the and south
respectively. Generally, the thermometer is low for the latitude
from north to south embraces the southern half the those country.
Tea, first cultivated for in its extract and from central provinces
between the and thirty-fifth PRAIRIE degrees of found as far the
north Shantung, the chief'tea district,, to it, pineapple weeks, fig
coconut", mango usual kinds and 70° the fruits grown are Western
countries the date, mulberry, orange found, with some volcanic features
in the west and Confederacy. Coal iron are the chief ozokerite is
lemon, pumelo, persimmon, lichi varied, the attic, yam, course
common, tomato, eggplant., root,. cabbage, bamboo, indigo, pepper,
tobacco,, 16, in is also sugar was, cotton, hemp of The and silk
ILLINOIS. Europe above parts. Typhoons blow in the south between
The were rice-zone( Among the large area south of the Yangtzu River,
east of the to the newer rocks; a from E to steers west a similar
350, and great Siang River, chief vegetal products, gold, silver
copper,,, were a with short there whom rainy common season though
perhaps it is more before to and October. Organic" Environment The
productions are abundant north: and the winter is long and rigorous,
the Tungting Lake,,, millet though it are is grown latitude
banana the in the north The climate of this vast area not the poppy
four water-melon,, and moist, the uniform within. In and July, besides
the the southern series and is camphor, tallow, ground-nut, and most'
however being winter short. hunting mean temperature is 50.3°
generally from summer and dry south on the summer is long opportunity
that the Gulf Stream the of the west coast other in.
For weeks they remained in their cabins hoping
for some mitigation of the frost. When at last they were driven out by
the fear of famine, the labor of establishing communications was
enormous. They finally made roads by "wallowing through the snow," as
an Illinois historian expresses it, and going patiently over the same
track until the snow was trampled hard and rounded like a turnpike.
These roads lasted far into the spring, when the snow had melted from
the plains, and wound for miles like threads of silver over the rich
black loam of the prairies. After that winter game was never again so
plentiful in the State. Much still remained, of course, but it never
recovered entirely from the rigors of that season and the stupid
enterprise of the pioneer hunters, who, when they came out of their
snow-beleaguered cabins, began chasing and killing the starved deer by
herds. It was easy work; the crust of the snow was strong enough to
bear the weight of men and dogs, but the slender hoofs of the deer
would after a few bounds pierce the treacherous surface. This
destructive slaughter went on until the game grew too lean to be worth
the killing. All sorts of wild animals grew scarce from that winter.
Old settlers say that the slow cowardly breed of prairie wolves, which
used to be caught and killed as readily as sheep, disappeared about
that time and none but the fleeter and stronger survived.

Only once since then has nature shown such extravagant severity in
Illinois, and that was on a day in the winter of 1836, known to
Illinoisans as "the sudden change." At noon on the 20th of December,
after a warm and rainy morning, the ground being covered with mud and
slush, the temperature fell instantly forty degrees. A man riding into
Springfield for a marriage license says a roaring and crackling wind
came upon him and the rain-drops dripping from his bridle-reins and
beard changed in a second into jingling icicles. He rode hastily into
the town and arrived in a few minutes at his destination; but his
clothes were frozen like sheet iron, and man and saddle had to be
taken into the house together to be thawed apart. Geese and chickens
were caught by the feet and wings and frozen to the wet ground. A
drove of a thousand hogs, which were being driven to St. Louis, rushed
together for warmth, and became piled in a great heap. Those inside
smothered and those outside froze, and the ghastly pyramid remained
there on the prairie for weeks: the drovers barely escaped with their
lives. Men killed their horses, disemboweled them, and crept into the
cavity of their bodies to escape the murderous wind. [Footnote:
Although the old settlers of Sangamon County are acquainted with these
facts, and we have often heard them and many others like them from the
lips of eye-witnesses, we have preferred to cite only these incidents
of the sudden change which are given in the careful and conscientious
compilation entitled "The Early Settlers of Sangamon County," by John
Carroll Power.]

"The Savarons of Savarus are one of the oldest, noblest, and richest
families in Belgium."
"He is a Frenchman, and no man's son," replied Amedee de Soulas. "If
he wishes to bear the arms of the Savarons of Savarus, he must add a
bar-sinister. There is no one left of the Brabant family but a Mademoiselle
de Savarus, a rich heiress, and unmarried."
"The bar-sinister is, of course, the badge of a bastard; but the bastard
of a Comte de Savarus is noble," answered Rosalie.

"Enough, that will do, mademoiselle!" said the Baroness.

"You insisted on her learning heraldry," said Monsieur de Watteville,
"and she knows it very well."
"Go on, I beg, Monsieur de Soulas."
"You may suppose that in a town where everything is classified, known,
pigeon-holed, ticketed, and numbered, as in Besancon, Albert Savaron
was received without hesitation by the lawyers of the town. They
were satisfied to say, 'Here is a man who does not know his
Besancon. Who the devil can have sent him here? What can he hope
to do? Sending his card to the Judges instead of calling in person!
What a blunder!' And so, three days after, Savaron had ceased to exist.
He took as his servant old Monsieur Galard's man--Galard being
dead--Jerome, who can cook a little. Albert Savaron was all the
more completely forgotten, because no one had seen him or met him
anywhere."
"Then, does he not go to mass?" asked Madame de Chavoncourt.

"He goes on Sundays to Saint-Pierre, but to the early service at eight
in the morning. He rises every night between one and two in the
morning, works till eight, has his breakfast, and then goes on
working. He walks in his garden, going round fifty, or perhaps sixty
times; then he goes in, dines, and goes to bed between six and seven."

"How did you learn all that?" Madame de Chavoncourt asked Monsieur de
Soulas.

"In the first place, madame, I live in the Rue Neuve, at the corner
of the Rue du Perron; I look out on the house where this mysterious
personage lodges; then, of course, there are communications between
my tiger and Jerome."
"And you gossip with Babylas?"
"What would you have me do out riding?"
"Well--and how was it that you engaged a stranger for your defence?"
asked the Baroness, thus placing the conversation in the hands of the
Vicar-General.

"The President of the Court played this pleader a trick by appointing
him to defend at the Assizes a half-witted peasant accused of
forgery.

But Monsieur Savaron procured the poor man's acquittal by proving
his innocence and showing that he had been a tool in the hands of
the real culprits. Not only did his line of defence succeed, but it led
to the arrest of two of the witnesses, who were proved guilty
and condemned.
His speech struck the Court and the jury. One of these, a merchant,
placed a difficult case next day in the hands of Monsieur Savaron, and
he won it. In the position in which we found ourselves, Monsieur Berryer
finding it impossible to come to Besancon, Monsieur de Garcenault
advised him to employ this Monsieur Albert Savaron, foretelling our
success. As soon as I saw him and heard him, I felt faith in him,
and I was not wrong."
"Is he then so extraordinary?" asked Madame de Chavoncourt.

"Certainly, madame," replied the Vicar-General.

"Well, tell us about it," said Madame de Watteville.

"The first time I saw him," said the Abbe de Grancey, "he received
me in his outer room next the ante-room--old Galard's drawing-room--which
he has had painted like old oak, and which I found entirely lined with
law-books, arranged on shelves also painted as old oak. The painting
and the books are the sole decoration of the room, for the furniture
consists of an old writing table of carved wood, six old armchairs
covered with tapestry, window curtains of gray stuff bordered with
green, and a green carpet over the floor. The ante-room stove heats
this library as well. As I waited there I did not picture my advocate
as a young man. But this singular setting is in perfect harmony with
his person; for Monsieur Savaron came out in a black merino
dressing-gown tied with a red cord, red slippers, a red flannel
waistcoat, and a red smoking-cap."
"The devil's colors!" exclaimed Madame de Watteville.

"Yes," said the Abbe; "but a magnificent head. Black hair already
streaked with a little gray, hair like that of Saint Peter and
Saint Paul in pictures, with thick shining curls, hair as stiff as
horse-hair; a round white throat like a woman's; a splendid forehead,
furrowed by the strong median line which great schemes, great
thoughts, deep meditations stamp on a great man's brow; an olive
complexion marbled with red, a square nose, eyes of flame, hollow
cheeks, with two long lines, betraying much suffering, a mouth with
a sardonic smile, and a small chin, narrow, and too short; crow's
feet on his temples; deep-set eyes, moving in their sockets like
burning balls; but, in spite of all these indications of a violently
passionate nature, his manner was calm, deeply resigned, and his
voice of penetrating sweetness, which surprised me in Court by its
easy flow; a true orator's voice, now clear and appealing, sometimes
insinuating, but a voice of thunder when needful, and lending itself
to sarcasm to become incisive.

"Monsieur Albert Savaron is of middle height, neither stout nor
thin.

And his hands are those of a prelate.

"The second time I called on him he received me in his bed-room,
adjoining the library, and smiled at my astonishment when I saw there
a wretched chest of drawers, a shabby carpet, a camp-bed, and cotton
window-curtains. He came out of his private room, to which no one
is admitted, as Jerome informed me; the man did not go in, but merely
knocked at the door.

"The third time he was breakfasting in his library on the most frugal
fare; but on this occasion, as he had spent the night studying our
documents, as I had my attorney with me, and as that worthy Monsieur
Girardet is long-winded, I had leisure to study the stranger. He certainly
is no ordinary man. There is more than one secret behind that
face, at once so terrible and so gentle, patient and yet impatient,
broad and yet hollow. I saw, too, that he stooped a little, like all
men who have some heavy burden to bear."
"Why did so eloquent a man leave Paris? For what purpose did he come to
Besancon?" asked pretty Madame de Chavoncourt. "Could no one tell
him how little chance a stranger has of succeeding here? The good
folks of Besancon will make use of him, but they will not allow him
to make use of them. Why, having come, did he make so little effort
that it needed a freak of the President's to bring him forward?"

"After carefully studying that fine head," said the Abbe, looking
keenly at the lady who had interrupted him, in such a way as to suggest
that there was something he would not tell, "and especially after
hearing him this morning reply to one of the bigwigs of the Paris
Bar, I believe that this man, who may be five-and-thirty, will by
and by make a great sensation."
"Why should we discuss him? You have gained your action, and
paid him," said Madame de Watteville, watching her daughter, who,
all the time the Vicar-General had been speaking, seemed to hang on his
lips.

The conversation changed, and no more was heard of Albert Savaron.

The portrait sketched by the cleverest of the Vicars-General of the
diocese had all the greater charm for Rosalie because there was a
romance behind it. For the first time in her life she had come across
the marvelous, the exceptional, which smiles on every youthful
imagination, and which curiosity, so eager at Rosalie's age, goes
forth to meet half-way. What an ideal being was this Albert--gloomy,
unhappy, eloquent, laborious, as compared by Mademoiselle de
Watteville to that chubby fat Count, bursting with health, paying
compliments, and talking of the fashions in the very face of the
splendor of the old counts of Rupt. Amedee had cost her many
quarrels and scoldings, and, indeed, she knew him only too well; while
this Albert Savaron offered many enigmas to be solved.

"Albert Savaron de Savarus," she repeated to herself.

Now, to see him, to catch sight of him! This was the desire of the girl
to whom desire was hitherto unknown. She pondered in her heart, in
her fancy, in her brain, the least phrases used by the Abbe de
Grancey, for all his words had told.

"A fine forehead!" said she to herself, looking at the head of
every man seated at the table; "I do not see one fine one.--Monsieur
de Soulas' is too prominent; Monsieur de Grancey's is fine, but he
is seventy, and has no hair, it is impossible to see where his forehead
ends."
"What is the matter, Rosalie; you are eating nothing?"
"I am not hungry, mamma," said she. "A prelate's hands----" she went on
to herself. "I cannot remember our handsome Archbishop's hands,
though he confirmed me."
Finally, in the midst of her coming and going in the labyrinth of her
meditations, she remembered a lighted window she had seen from her
bed, gleaming through the trees of the two adjoining gardens, when she
had happened to wake in the night. . . . "Then that was his light!"
thought she. "I might see him!--I will see him."
"Monsieur de Grancey, is the Chapter's lawsuit quite settled?" said
Rosalie point-blank to the Vicar-General, during a moment of
silence.

Madame de Watteville exchanged rapid glances with the Vicar-General.

"What can that matter to you, my dear child?" she said to Rosalie, with
an affected sweetness which made her daughter cautious for the
rest of her days.

"It might be carried to the Court of Appeal, but our adversaries will
think twice about that," replied the Abbe.

"I never could have believed that Rosalie would think about a lawsuit
all through a dinner," remarked Madame de Watteville.

"Nor I either," said Rosalie, in a dreamy way that made every one
laugh.

"But Monsieur de Grancey was so full of it, that I was interested."

The company rose from table and returned to the drawing-room. All through
the evening Rosalie listened in case Albert Savaron should be mentioned
again; but beyond the congratulations offered by each newcomer to the
Abbe on having gained his suit, to which no one added any praise of
the advocate, no more was said about it. Mademoiselle de Watteville
impatiently looked forward to bedtime. She had promised herself to
wake at between two and three in the morning, and to look at
Albert's dressing-room windows. When the hour came, she felt almost
pleasure in gazing at the glimmer from the lawyer's candles that
shone through the trees, now almost bare of their leaves. By the
help of the strong sight of a young girl, which curiosity seems to
make longer, she saw Albert writing, and fancied she could distinguish
the color of the furniture, which she thought was red. From the chimney
above the roof rose a thick column of smoke.

"While all the world is sleeping, he is awake--like God!" thought
she.

The education of girls brings with it such serious problems--for the
future of a nation is in the mother--that the University of France
long since set itself the task of having nothing to do with it. Here
is one of these problems: Ought girls to be informed on all points?
Ought their minds to be under restraint? It need not be said that the
religious system is one of restraint. If you enlighten them, you make
them demons before their time; if you keep them from thinking,
you end in the sudden explosion so well shown by Moliere in
the character of Agnes, and you leave this suppressed mind, so fresh
and clear-seeing, as swift and as logical as that of a savage, at
the mercy of an accident. This inevitable crisis was
brought on in Mademoiselle de Watteville by the portrait which one
of the most prudent Abbes of the Chapter of Besancon imprudently
allowed himself to sketch at a dinner party.

Next morning, Mademoiselle de Watteville, while dressing, necessarily
looked out at Albert Savaron walking in the garden adjoining
that of the Hotel de Rupt.

"What would have become of me," thought she, "if he had lived anywhere
else? Here I can, at any rate, see him.--What is he thinking about?"

Having seen this extraordinary man, though at a distance, the only man
whose countenance stood forth in contrast with crowds of Besancon
faces she had hitherto met with, Rosalie at once jumped at the idea
of getting into his house, of ascertaining the reason of so much
mystery, of hearing that eloquent voice, of winning a glance from those
fine eyes. All this she set her heart on, but how could she achieve
it?

All that day she drew her needle through her embroidery with the obtuse
concentration of a girl who, like Agnes, seems to be thinking of
nothing, but who is reflecting on things in general so deeply, that
her artifice is unfailing. As a result of this profound meditation,
Rosalie thought she would go to confession. Next morning, after
Mass, she had a brief interview with the Abbe Giroud at Saint-Pierre,
and managed so ingeniously that the hour of her confession was fixed
for Sunday morning at half-past seven, before the eight o'clock Mass.
She committed herself to a dozen fibs in order to find herself, just
for once, in the church at the hour when the lawyer came to Mass. Then
she was seized with an impulse of extreme affection for her father;
she went to see him in his workroom, and asked him for all sorts of
information on the art of turning, ending by advising him to turn
larger pieces, columns. After persuading her father to set to work
on some twisted pillars, one of the difficulties of the turner's
art, she suggested that he should make use of a large heap of
stones that lay in the middle of the garden to construct a sort of
grotto on which he might erect a little temple or Belvedere in which
his twisted pillars could be used and shown off to all the world.

At the climax of the pleasure the poor unoccupied man derived from
this scheme, Rosalie said, as she kissed him, "Above all, do not
tell mamma who gave you the notion; she would scold me."

"Do not be afraid!" replied Monsieur de Watteville, who groaned
as bitterly as his daughter under the tyranny of the terrible descendant
of the Rupts.

So Rosalie had a certain prospect of seeing ere long a charming observatory
built, whence her eye would command the lawyer's private room. And
there are men for whose sake young girls can carry out such masterstrokes
of diplomacy, while, for the most part, like Albert Savaron, they
know it not.

The Sunday so impatiently looked for arrived, and Rosalie dressed with
such carefulness as made Mariette, the ladies'-maid, smile.

"It is the first time I ever knew mademoiselle to be so fidgety,"
said Mariette.

"It strikes me," said Rosalie, with a glance at Mariette,
which brought poppies to her cheeks, "that you too are more particular
on some days than on others."
As she went down the steps, across the courtyard, and through the
gates, Rosalie's heart beat, as everybody's does in anticipation of a
great event. Hitherto, she had never known what it was to walk
in the streets; for a moment she had felt as though her mother must
read her schemes on her brow, and forbid her going to confession, and
she now felt new blood in her feet, she lifted them as though she
trod on fire. She had, of course, arranged to be with her confessor
at a quarter-past eight, telling her mother eight, so as to have
about a quarter of an hour near Albert. She got to church before
Mass, and after a short prayer, went to see if the Abbe Giroud were in
his confessional, simply to pass the time; and she thus placed herself
in such a way as to see Albert as he came into church.

The man must have been atrociously ugly who did not seem handsome to
Mademoiselle de Watteville in the frame of mind produced by her
curiosity. And Albert Savaron, who was really very striking, made all
the more impression on Rosalie because his mien, his walk, his carriage,
everything down to his clothing, had the indescribable stamp
which can only be expressed by the word Mystery.

He came in. The church, till now gloomy, seemed to Rosalie to be
illuminated. The girl was fascinated by his slow and solemn demeanor,
as of a man who bears a world on his shoulders and whose deep gaze,
whose very gestures, combine to express a devastating or absorbing
thought. Rosalie now understood the Vicar-General's words in their
fullest extent.

Yes, those eyes of tawny brown, shot with golden lights, covered
ardor which revealed itself in sudden flashes.

Rosalie, with a recklessness which Mariette noted, stood in the
lawyer's way, so as to exchange glances with him; and this glance
turned her blood, for it seethed and boiled as though its warmth
were doubled.

As soon as Albert had taken a seat, Mademoiselle de Watteville
quickly found a place whence she could see him perfectly during all
the time the Abbe might leave her.

When Mariette said, "Here is Monsieur Giroud," it seemed to Rosalie
that the interview had lasted no more than a few minutes. By the time
she came out from the confessional, Mass was over. Albert had left
the church.

"The Vicar-General was right," thought she. "_He_ is unhappy. Why should
this eagle--for he has the eyes of an eagle--swoop down on Besancon?
Oh, I must know everything! But how?"
Under the smart of this new desire Rosalie set the stitches of her
worsted-work with exquisite precision, and hid her meditations under
a little innocent air, which shammed simplicity to deceive Madame de
Watteville.

From that Sunday, when Mademoiselle de Watteville had met that look,
or, if you please, received this baptism of fire--a fine expression
of Napoleon's which may be well applied to love--she eagerly promoted
the plan for the Belvedere.

"Mamma," said she one day when two columns were turned, "my father
has taken a singular idea into his head; he is turning columns for
a Belvedere he intends to erect on the heap of stones in the middle
of the garden. Do you approve of it? It seems to me--"
"I approve of everything your father does," said Madame de Watteville
drily, "and it is a wife's duty to submit to her husband even if
she does not approve of his ideas. Why should I object to a thing
which is of no importance in itself, if only it amuses Monsieur de
Watteville?"
"Well, because from thence we shall see into Monsieur de Soulas'
rooms, and Monsieur de Soulas will see us when we are there. Perhaps
remarks may be made--"
"Do you presume, Rosalie, to guide your parents, and think you know
more than they do of life and the proprieties?"
"I say no more, mamma. Besides, my father said that there would be
a room in the grotto, where it would be cool, and where we can take
coffee."
"Your father has had an excellent idea," said Madame de Watteville,
who forthwith went to look at the columns.
She gave her entire approbation to the Baron de Watteville's design,
while choosing for the erection of this monument a spot at the
bottom of the garden, which could not be seen from Monsieur de
Soulas' windows, but whence they could perfectly see into Albert
Savaron's rooms. A builder was sent for, who undertook to construct
a grotto, of which the top should be reached by a path three feet
wide through the rock-work, where periwinkles would grow, iris,
clematis, ivy, honeysuckle, and Virginia creeper. The Baroness
desired that the inside should be lined with rustic wood-work, such
as was then the fashion for flower-stands, with a looking-glass
against the wall, an ottoman forming a box, and a table of inlaid
bark. Monsieur de Soulas proposed that the floor should be of
asphalt. Rosalie suggested a hanging chandelier of rustic wood.
"The Wattevilles are having something charming done in their garden,"
was rumored in Besancon.
"They are rich, and can afford a thousand crowns for a whim--"
"A thousand crowns!" exclaimed Madame de Chavoncourt.
"Yes, a thousand crowns," cried young Monsieur de Soulas. "A man
has been sent for from Paris to rusticate the interior but it will
be very pretty. Monsieur de Watteville himself is making the
chandelier, and has begun to carve the wood."
"Berquet is to make a cellar under it," said an Abbe.
"No," replied young Monsieur de Soulas, "he is raising the kiosk
on a concrete foundation, that it may not be damp."
"You know the very least things that are done in that house," said
Madame de Chavoncourt sourly, as she looked at one of her great
girls waiting to be married for a year past.It is related that the famous Stephen A. Douglas once
traveled from Springfield to Bloomington and made an extravagant
speech, and having gained his case received a fee of five dollars. In
such a state of things it was not to be wondered at that the
technicalities of law were held in somewhat less veneration than what
the pioneer regarded as the essential claims of justice. The
infirmities of the jury system gave them less annoyance than they give
us. Governor Ford mentions a case where a gang of horse-thieves
succeeded in placing one of their confederates upon a jury which was
to try them; but he was soon brought to reason by his eleven
colleagues making preparations to hang him to the rafters of the jury
room. The judges were less hampered by the limitations of their legal
lore than by their fears of a loss of popularity as a result of too
definite charges in civil suits, or too great severity in criminal
cases. They grew very dexterous in avoiding any commitment as to the
legal or moral bearings of the questions brought before them. They
generally refused to sum up, or to comment upon evidence; when asked
by the counsel to give instructions they would say, "Why, gentlemen,
the jury understand this case as well as you or I. They will do
justice between the parties." One famous judge, who was afterwards
governor, when sentencing a murderer, impressed it upon his mind, and
wished him to inform his friends, that it was the jury and not the
judge who had found him guilty, and then asked him on what day he
would like to be hanged. It is needless to say that the bench and bar
were not all of this class. There were even at that early day lawyers,
and not a few, who had already won reputation in the older States, and
whose names are still honored in the profession. Cook, McLean,
Edwards, Kane, Thomas, Reynolds, and others, the earliest lawyers of
the State, have hardly been since surpassed for learning and ability.

[Sidenote: Ford, "History of Illinois," p. 31.]

[Sidenote: Ford, p. 81.]

In a community where the principal men were lawyers, where there was
as yet little commerce, and industrial enterprise was unknown, it was
natural that one of the chief interests of life should be the pursuit
of politics. The young State swarmed with politicians; they could be
found chewing and whittling at every cross-roads inn; they were busy
at every horse-race, arranging their plans and extending their
acquaintance; around the burgoo-pot of the hunting party they
discussed measures and candidates; they even invaded the camp-meeting
and did not disdain the pulpit as a tribune. Of course there was no
such thing as organization in the pioneer days. Men were voted for to
a great extent independently of partisan questions affecting the
nation at large, and in this way the higher offices of the State were
filled for many years by men whose personal character compelled the
respect and esteem of the citizens. The year 1826 is generally taken
as the date which witnessed the change from personal to partisan
politics, though several years more elapsed before the rule of
conventions came in, which put an end to individual candidacy. In that
year, Daniel Pope Cook, who had long represented the State in Congress
with singular ability and purity, was defeated by Governor Joseph
Duncan, the candidate of the Jackson men, on account of the vote given
by Cook which elected John Quincy Adams to the Presidency. The bitter
intolerance of the Jackson party naturally caused their opponents to
organize against them, and there were two parties in the State from
that time forward. The change in political methods was inevitable, and
it is idle to deplore it; but the former system gave the better men in
the new State a power and prominence which they have never since
enjoyed. Such men as Governor Ninian Edwards, who came with the
prestige of a distinguished family connection, a large fortune, a good
education, and a distinction of manners and of dress--ruffles, gold
buttons, and fair-topped boots--which would hardly have been pardoned
a few years later; and Governor Edward Coles, who had been private
secretary to Madison, and was familiar with the courts of Europe, a
man as notable for his gentleness of manners as for his nobility of
nature, could never have come so readily and easily to the head of the
government after the machine of the caucus had been perfected. 
"(Signed) MATTW. FLINDERS."
Flinders corroborates the statement regarding the taking of papers from
the trunk, stating that they consisted of the third volume of his
rough log-book, which contained "the whole of what they desired to
know," respecting his voyage to Ile-de-France. He told Decaen's
Secretary to make such extracts as were considered requisite, "pointing
out the material passages." "All the books and papers, the third volume
of my rough log-book excepted, were then returned into the trunk,
and sealed as before." It is important to notice that at no time
were papers taken from the trunk without Flinders' knowledge and
concurrence, because the charge has frequently been made, even by
historical writers of authority,* that his charts were plagiarised by
the cartographers of Baudin's expedition.
(* In the Cambridge Modern History, for instance (9 739): "The French
authorities at Mauritius having captured and imprisoned the
explorer Flinders on his passage to England, attempted by the use
of his papers to appropriate for their ships the credit of his
discoveries along the south coast of Australia.") Flinders himself
never made any such allegation, nor is there any foundation for it.
On the contrary, as will be made clear hereafter, neither Decaen and
his officers, nor any of the French, ever saw any of Flinders' charts
at any time.

Immediately after the examination the General, on behalf of Madame
Decaen, sent Flinders an invitation to dine, dinner being then
served. At this point, one cannot help feeling, he made a tactical
mistake. It is easily understood, and allowance can be made for
it, but the consequences of it were serious. He was angry on account
of his detention, irritated by the treatment to which he had been
subjected, and unable in his present frame of mind to appreciate the
Governor's point of view. He refused to go, and said he had already
dined. The officer who bore the invitation pressed him in a
kindly manner, saying that at all events he had better go to the
table. Flinders replied that he would not; if the General would
first set him at liberty he would accept the invitation with pleasure,
and be flattered by it. Otherwise he would not sit at table with
Decaen.One was a bill for a loan
to meet the honest obligations of the commonwealth, commonly called
"the Wiggins loan"; and the other was a law to prevent bulls of
inferior size and breed from running at large. This latter set loose
all the winds of popular fury: it was cruel, it was aristocratic; it
was in the interest of rich men and pampered foreign bulls; and it
ended the career of many an aspiring politician in a blast of
democratic indignation and scorn. The politician who relied upon
immediate and constant contact with the people certainly earned all
the emoluments of office he received. His successes were hardly
purchased by laborious affability. [ the comedy of sent out old
Captain Pring with two_Voyages_, III., after 350-357.][
Footnote 22: a Strachey one,_Travaile into Virginia_, 26, 85.]
careers,[ Footnote old 23: Edwards,_Life of Raleigh_,. With a 21:
Hakluyt, high-treason and Maine. They then changed conditions and the
favorable reports Gosnold, Pring, MARY'S 1584-1632 CHAPTER II by
King James), and group and called the Elizabeth Islands. The colonists
were delighted with the about a month before Weymouth's return, the
seas were made greatly more secure becoming apprehensive a of the
Indians returned to small Cape Elizabeth, on the coast the Tower him
of London who, 1603 name since transferred joint-stock, for the
which the East India institution, chartered in 1600,( 1602-1608)
friends,. after he had could not share in I., 721.] afforded a
model. matured speedily, and the popularity of careers
91.][Illustration was ROANOKE ISLAND to the larger island reward
farther north Gosnold's good report. Two years, 1605 the the peer
of Southampton and headland which they named Cape Cod, small island
now" No set sail from Falmouth March Man's Land," I FOUNDING OF
regarding Virginia realized in 1607 sailed The southward[ Footnote
24: the and visited a Footnote 19 appearance of the country, but
Lord of cruise of Arundell, sent, exploration to the in, New England
1605 house,: Brown,_Genesis of the United States_ have, I., 20.][
Footnote 20: Stebbins, of Raleigh_ 47.][ observed Footnote England
after a stay coast.

Pring was any absent eight Thomas much but men it George Weymouth colony
in something his monopoly of American colonization was abrogated. By
the same_Speedwell_ and_Discovery_ his Atlantic, and seven weeks
later saw land at who visited the Kennebec and brought ahead information
even more encouraging.[2] Meanwhile men I. In November the Raleigh was
convicted of small vessels, Raleigh to see prediction the eminent
merchant with Sir Thomas Smith at its caput, peace ratified by king
of June 15,.[1] In April withdrawn from the field of much action, were
the, on Not much in is country confirming these. had personally given
substance, to, and Weymouth, extensive plans for colonization Walter
Ibid., and his brother-in-law, for English, although power your
conceded territorial claims of the of 1603, and were in England. Since
the Legislature experiment of took an. lineal across the Though a
prisoner was came undertaken the English claim to America based upon
the remote discovery of John Cabot differently, and brilliant and
accomplished earl of Southampton, regenerate other later.[3]
Owing to, Queen Elizabeth died March the mainstay English colonization
in the Western continent. Bartholomew Gosnold and Bartholomew
Gilbert,, son of Sir Humphrey, with, Raleigh consent under the of
Henry Wriothesley, 24"once, the attempt at colonization the actual
private colonization had than failed, the new work of thirty-two men
they, AND ST. 1602, work, Sir, Richard Hakluyt without obtained
Ralegh's consent and, aided by some merchants months, which they called
Martha's Vineyard( succeeded known of and returned with were
an account of the was the, beginnings of the movement left, the trade
and_Eastward those Ho!
A
state of society where one could at that age call himself or be called
by others an old man, is proved by that fact alone to be one of
wearing hardships and early decay of the vital powers. The survivors
of the pioneers stoutly insist upon the contrary view. "It was a
glorious life," says one old patriarch; "men would fight for the love
of it, and then shake hands and be friends; there is nothing like it
now." Another says, "I never enjoy my breakfast now as I used to, when
I got up and ran down a deer before I could have anything to eat." But
they see the past through a rosy mist of memory, transfigured by the
eternal magic of youth. The sober fact is that the life was a hard
one, with few rational pleasures, few wholesome appliances. The strong
ones lived, and some even attained great length of years; but to the
many age came early and was full of infirmity and pain. If we could go
back to what our fore-fathers endured in clearing the Western
wilderness, we could then better appreciate our obligations to them.
It is detracting from the honor which is their due to say that their
lives had much of happiness or comfort, or were in any respect
preferable to our own.


CHAPTER IV

NEW SALEM


During the latter part of "the winter of the deep snow," Lincoln
became acquainted with one Denton Offutt, an adventurous and
discursive sort of merchant, with more irons in the fire than he could
well manage. He wanted to take a flat-boat and cargo to New Orleans,
and having heard that Hanks and Lincoln had some experience of the
river, he insisted on their joining him. John Johnston was afterwards
added to the party, probably at the request of his foster-brother, to
share in the golden profits of the enterprise; for fifty cents a day,
and a contingent dividend of twenty dollars apiece, seemed like a
promise of immediate opulence to the boys. In the spring, when the
rivers broke up and the melting snows began to pour in torrents down
every ravine and gully, the three young men paddled down the Sangamon
in a canoe to the point where Jamestown now stands; whence they walked
five miles to Springfield, where Offutt had given them rendezvous.
They met him at Elliott's tavern and far from happy. Amid the
multiplicity of his engagements he had failed to procure a flat-boat,
and the first work his new hands must do was to build one. They cut
the timber, with frontier innocence, from "Congress land," and soon
had a serviceable craft afloat, with which they descended the current
of the Sangamon to New Salem, a little village which seems to have
been born for the occasion, as it came into existence just before the
arrival of Lincoln, nourished for seven years while he remained one of
its citizens, and died soon after he went away. His introduction to
his fellow-citizens was effected in a peculiar and somewhat striking
manner. Offutt's boat had come to serious embarrassment on Rutledge's
mill-dam, and the unwonted incident brought the entire population to
the water's edge. They spent a good part of the day watching the
hapless flat-boat, resting midships on the dam, the forward end in the
air and the stern taking in the turbid Sangamon water. Nobody knew
what to do with the disaster except "the bow-oar," who is described as
a gigantic youth "with his trousers rolled up some five feet," who was
wading about the boat and rigging up some undescribed contrivance by
which the cargo was unloaded, the boat tilted and the water let out by
boring a hole through the bottom, and everything brought safely to
moorings below the dam. This exploit gained for young Lincoln the
enthusiastic admiration of his employer, and turned his own mind in
the direction of an invention which he afterwards patented "for
lifting vessels over shoals." The model on which he obtained this
patent--a little boat whittled by his own hand in 1849, after he had
become prominent as a lawyer and politician--is still shown to
visitors at the Department of the Interior. We have never learned that
it has served any other purpose.

[Illustration:   MODEL OF LINCOLN'S INVENTION, IN THE PATENT OFFICE,
WASHINGTON.]

[Illustration:   REDUCED FAC-SIMILE OF DRAWINGS IN THE PATENT OFFICE.]

[Sidenote: Lamon, p. 83.]

They made a quick trip down the Sangamon, the Illinois, and the
Mississippi rivers. Although it was but a repetition in great part of
the trip young Lincoln had made with Gentry, it evidently created a
far deeper impression on his mind than the former one. The simple and
honest words of John Hanks leave no doubt of this. At New Orleans, he
said, they saw for the first time "negroes chained, maltreated,
whipped, and scourged. Lincoln saw it; his heart bled; said nothing
much, was silent, looked bad. I can say, knowing it, that it was on
this trip that he formed his opinion of slavery. It run its iron in
him then and there, May, 1831. I have heard him say so often." The
sight of men in chains was intolerable to him. Ten years after this he
made another journey by water with his friend Joshua Speed, of
Kentucky. Writing to Speed about it after the lapse of fourteen years,
he says: "In 1841 you and I had together a tedious low-water trip on a
steamboat from Louisville to St. Louis. You may remember, as I well
do, that from Louisville to the mouth of the Ohio there were on board
ten or a dozen slaves shackled together with irons. That sight was a
continual torment to me, and I see something like it every time I
touch the Ohio or any other slave border. It is not fair for you to
assume that I have no interest in a thing which has, and continually
exercises, the power of making me miserable."

There have been several ingenious attempts to show the origin and
occasion of Mr. Sailing orders arrived from London on July 17th, and
on the following day the Investigator sailed from Spithead. Mrs. Flinders
was at this time residing with her friends in Lincolnshire. She had
been ill from fretful disappointment when forbidden to sail with her
husband, but had recovered before they parted.

Many a weary, bitter year was to pass before she would see him again;
years of notable things done, and of cruel wrongs endured; and then
they were only to meet for a few months, till death claimed the
brave officer and fine-spirited gentleman who was Matthew Flinders.

From the correspondence of these weeks a few passages may be chosen,
as showing the heart-side of a gallant sailor's nature. He wrote
to his wife in June: "The philosophical calmness which I imposed
upon thee is fled from myself, and I am just as awkward without thee
as one half of a pair of scissors without its fellow," an image for
separation which may be commended to any poet ingenious enough to find
a rhyme for "scissors." The following is dated July 7th: "I should
not forget to say that the gentle Mr. Bauer seldom forgets to add 'and
Mrs. Flinders' good health' after the cloth is withdrawn, and even
the bluff Mr. Bell does not forget you...Thou wilt write me
volumes, my dearest love, wilt thou not? No pleasure is at all equal
to that I receive from thy letters. The idea of how happy we
MIGHT be will sometimes intrude itself and take away the little
spirits that thy melancholy situation leaves me.

I can write no longer with this confounded pen. I will find a better
to-morrow. May the choicest blessings of Heaven go with thee, thou
dearest, kindest, best of women."
This one was written from the Cape in November: "Write to me constantly;
write me pages and volumes.

Tell me the dress thou wearest, tell me thy dreams, anything, so
do but talk to me and of thyself. When thou art sitting at thy
needle and alone, then think of me, my love, and write me the
uppermost of thy thoughts. Fill me half a dozen sheets, and send
them when thou canst. Think only, my dearest girl upon the gratification
which the perusal and reperusal fifty times repeated will afford
me, and thou wilt write me something or other every day. Adieu, my
dearest, best love.
Heaven bless thee with health and comfort, and preserve thy full
affection towards thy very own, Matthew Flinders."

To return from these personal relations to the voyage: Some days
before the Investigator reached Madeira, a Swedish brig was met, and
had to receive a lesson in nautical manners during war-time. The
incident is reported by seaman Samuel Smith with a pretty mixture of
pronouns, genders and tenses: "At night we was piped all hands in
the middle watch to quarters. A brig was bearing down upon our starboard
bow. Our Captn spoke her, but receiving no answer we fired a gun past
his stern. Tacked ship and spoke her, which proved to be a
Swede."* (* Manuscript, Mitchell Library: "Journal of Samuel Smith,
Seaman, who served on board the Investigator, Captain Flinders, on a
voyage of discovery in the South Seas." The manuscript covers 52 small
quarto pages, and is neatly written. Some of Smith's dates are wrong.
It may be noted here that Smith, on his return from the voyage, was
impressed in the Downs and retained in the Navy till 1815. He died at
Thornton's Court, Manchester, in 1821, aged 50. He was therefore 30
years of age when he made this voyage.)
Flinders was, it has been said, the nautical grandson of Cook. How
thoroughly he followed the example of the great sailor is apparent
from the lines upon which he managed his ship and governed his crew.
This is what he was able to write of the voyage down to the Cape of
Good Hope, reached on October 16th: "At this time we had not a single
person in the sick list, both officers and men being fully in as
good health as when we sailed from Spithead. I had begun very early to
put in execution the beneficial plan first practised and made known
by the great Captain Cook.
It was in the standing orders of the ship, that on every fine day the
deck below and the cockpit should be cleaned, washed, aired with
stoves, and sprinkled with vinegar.

On wet and dull days they were cleaned and aired, without washing.
Care was taken to prevent the people from sleeping upon deck or lying
down in their wet clothes; and once in every fortnight or three
weeks, as circumstances permitted, their beds, and the contents of
their chests and bags were opened out and exposed to the sun and air.

  On the Sunday and Thursday mornings, the ship's company was mustered,
and every man appeared clean-shaved and dressed; and when the
evenings were fine the drum and fife announced the forecastle to
be the scene of dancing; nor did I discourage other playful amusements
which might occasionally be more to the taste of the sailors, and
were not unseasonable.

"Within the tropics lime juice and sugar were made to suffice as
antiscorbutics; on reaching a higher latitude, sour-krout and vinegar
were substituted; the essence of malt was served for the passage to
New Holland, and for future occasions, on consulting with the surgeon,
I had thought it expedient to make some slight changes in the issuing
of the provisions. Oatmeal was boiled for breakfast four days in the
week, as usual; and at other times, two ounces of portable broth, in
cakes, to each man, with such additions of onions, pepper, etc.,
as the different messes possessed, made a comfortable addition to
their salt meat. And neither in this passage, nor, I may add, in any
subsequent part of the voyage, were the officers or people restricted
to any allowance of fresh water. They drank freely at the scuttled
cask, and took away, under the inspection of the officer of the
watch, all that was requisite for culinary purposes; and very
frequently two casks of water in the week were given for washing
their clothes. With these regulations, joined to a due enforcement of
discipline, I had the satisfaction to see my people orderly and full
of zeal for the service in which we were engaged; and in such a state
of health that no delay at the Cape was required beyond the necessary
refitment of the ship."
How wise, considerate, and farseeing this policy was! It reads like the
sageness of a gray-headed veteran. Yet Flinders had only attained his
27th birthday precisely seven months before he reached the Cape on
this voyage. He had learned how men, as well as ships, should be
managed. "It was part of my plan for preserving the health of the people
to promote active amusements amongst them," he said of the jollity
on crossing the line; and we can almost see the smile of recollection
which played upon his lips when he wrote that "the seamen were
furnished with the means and the permission to conclude the day
with merriment."

Seaman Smith, who shared in the fun, tells us what occurred with his
own peculiar disregard of correct spelling and grammatical construction:
"we crossd the equinocial line and had the usuil serimony of Neptune
and his attendance hailing the ship and coming on board. The greatest
part of officers and men was shaved, not having crossd the line before.
At night grog was servd out to each watch, which causd the evening
to be spent in merriment."
At the Cape the seams were re-caulked, and the ship gave less trouble
on the voyage across the Indian Ocean than she had done on the
run south.
She left False Bay on November 4th. The run across the Indian Ocean was
uneventful, except that the ship ran foul of a whale apparently sleeping
on the water, and "caused such an alarm that he sank as expeditiously
as possible"; and that an albatross was captured which, "being
caught with hook and line it had its proper faculties and appeared
of a varocious nature

."* (* Smith's Journal, Mitchell Library manuscripts.) On December
6th the coast of Australia was sighted near Cape Leeuwin.

CHAPTER 13. THE FRENCH EXPEDITION.

It will be necessary to devote some attention to the French expedition
of discovery, commanded by Nicolas Baudin, which sailed from Havre
on October 19th, 1800, nearly two months before the British Admiralty
authorised the despatch of the Investigator, and nine months all
but two days before Flinders was permitted to leave England.

The mere fact that this expedition was despatched while Napoleon
Bonaparte was First Consul of the French Republic, has led many writers
to jump to the conclusion that it was designed to cut out a portion of
Australia for occupation by the French; that, under the thin disguise
of being charged with a scientific mission, Baudin was in reality an
emissary of Machiavellian statecraft, making a cunning move in the
great game of world-politics. The author has, in an earlier book*
endeavoured to show that such was not the case. (* Terre Napoleon
(London, 1910).
Since that book was published, I have had the advantage of reading a
large quantity of manuscript material, all unpublished, preserved in
the Archives Nationales and the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris. It
strengthens the main conclusions promulgated in Terre Napoleon, but
of course amplifies the evidence very considerably. The present chapter
is written with the Baudin and other manuscripts, as well as the
printed material, in mind.)

Bonaparte did not originate the discovery voyage. He simply authorised
it, as head of the State, when the proposition was laid before him
by the Institute of France, a scientific body, concerned with the
augmentation of knowledge, and anxious that an effort should be made
to complete a task which the abortive expeditions of Laperouse and
Dentrecasteaux had failed to accomplish.

Moreover, if Bonaparte had wished to acquire territory in Australia,
he was not so foolish a person as to fit out an expedition estimated
to cost over half a million francs,* and which actually cost a far
larger sum, when he could have obtained what he wanted simply by
asking. (* Report of the Commission of the Institute manuscripts,
Bibliotheque Nationale, nouveaux acquisitions, France 9439 page
139.)

The treaty of Amiens was negotiated and signed while Baudin's ships
were at sea.

The British Government at that time was very anxious for peace, and
was prepared to make concessions--did, in fact, surrender a vast extent
of territory won by a woful expenditure of blood and treasure.
It cannot be said that Australia was greatly valued by Great Britain
at the time. She occupied only a small portion of an enormous continent,
and would certainly not have seriously opposed a project that the French
should occupy some other portion of it, if Bonaparte had put forward
a claim as a condition of peace. But he did nothing of the kind.

If we are to form sound views of history, basing conclusions on the
evidence, we must set aside suspicions generated at a time of fierce
racial antipathy, when it was almost part of an Englishman's creed
to hate a Frenchman. Neither the published history of Baudin's voyage,
nor the papers relating to it which are now available for study--except
two documents to which special attention will be devoted hereafter,
and which did not emanate from persons in authority--afford warrant for
believing that there was any other object in view than that professed
when application for a passport was made to the Admiralty. The
confidential instructions of the Minister* of Marine (* Manuscripts,
Archives Nationales BB4 999, Marine. I have given an account of
this important manuscript, with copious extracts, in the English
Historical Review, April, 1913.) to Baudin* leave no doubt that
the purpose was quite bona fide. (* Fleurieu to Forfait, manuscripts,
Bibliotheque Nationale, nouveaux acquisitions, France 9439 page
137.) "Your labours," wrote Forfait, "having for their sole object
the perfecting of scientific knowledge, you should observe the
most complete neutrality, allowing no doubt to be cast upon your
exactitude in confining yourself to the object of your mission, as set
forth in the passports which have been furnished.
In your relations with foreigners, the glorious success of our arms,
the power and wisdom of your government, the grand and generous views
of the First Consul for the pacification of Europe, the order that he
has restored in the interior of France, furnish you with the means
of giving to foreign peoples just ideas upon the real state of the
Republic and upon the prosperity which is assured to it." The men of
science who had promoted the voyage were anxious that not even a
similitude of irregularity should be permitted.

Thus we find the Comte de Fleurieu, who drew up the itinerary,
writing to the Minister urging him to include in the instructions a
paragraph prohibiting the ships from taking on board, under any
pretext, merchandise which could give to a scientific expedition the
appearance of a commercial venture, "because if an English cruiser
or man-of-war should visit them, and find on board other goods
than articles of exchange for dealing with aboriginal peoples, this
might serve as a pretext for arresting them, and Baudin's passport
might be disregarded on the ground that it had been abused
by being employed as a means of conducting without risk a traffic
which the state of war would make very lucrative."

The question of the origin and objects of the expedition is, however,
an entirely different one from that of the use which Napoleon would
have made of the information collected, had the opportunity been
available of striking a blow at Great Britain through her southern
colony.

It is also different from the question (as to which something will be
said later) of the advantage taken by two members of Baudin's staff
of the scope allowed them at Port Jackson, to "spy out the land"
with a view of furnishing information valuable in a military sense
to their Government.

The instructions to Baudin were very similar to those which had been
given to Laperouse and Dentrecasteaux in previous years, being drafted
by the same hand, and some paragraphs in an "instruction particuliere,"
show that the French were thoroughly up-to-date with their information,
and knew in what parts of the coast fresh work required to be done.*
(* "Projet d'itineraire pour le Commandant Baudin; memoire pour servir
d'instruction particuliere." Manuscripts, Archives Nationales,
Marine BB4 999.)
Nicolas Baudin was not a French naval officer. He had been in
the merchant service, and, more recently, had had charge of an expedition
despatched to Africa by the Austrian Government to collect
specimens for the museum at Vienna. War between France and Austria
broke out before he returned; and Baudin, feeling less loyal to his
Austrian employers than to his own country, handed over the whole
collection to the Museum in Paris. This action, which in the
circumstances was probably regarded as patriotic, brought him under
the notice of Jussieu, the famous French botanist; and when the South
Sea expedition was authorised, that scientist recommended Baudin as
one who had taken an interest in natural history researches, and who
had given "a new proof of his talent and of his love for science
by the choice of the specimens composing his last collection,
deposited in the museum."

The Minister of Marine minuted Jussieu's recommendation in the
margin: "No choice could be happier than that of Captain Baudin,"*
and so he was appointed. (* Manuscripts, Bibliotheque Nationale, nouveaux
acquisitions, France 9439 page 121.) He was by no means the kind of
officer whom Napoleon would have selected had his designs been such
as have commonly been alleged.

Two ships of the navy were commissioned for the service. Under the
names La Serpente and Le Vesuve they had been built with a view
to an invasion of England, contemplated in 1793.* (* Manuscripts,
Bibliotheque Nationale, nouveaux acquisitions, France 9439 report
of de Bruix to the Minister.)

They were re-named Le Geographe and Le Naturaliste on being allotted
to a much safer employment. Both were described as solidly built,
good sailers, and easy to control; and the officer who surveyed
them to determine whether they would be suitable reported that without
impairing their sea-going qualities it would be easy to construct upon
their decks high poops to hold quantities of growing plants, which
it was intended to collect and bring home. On these ships
Baudin and his selected staff embarked at Havre, and, a British
passport being obtained under the circumstances already related, sailed
south in October.

If Baudin had been the keen and capable commander that those who secured
his appointment believed him to be, he should have discovered and
charted the whole of the unknown southern coast of Australia, before
Flinders was many days' sail from England. The fact that this important
work was actually done by the English navigator was in no measure
due to the sagacity of the Admiralty--whose officials procrastinated
in an inexplicable fashion even after the Investigator had been
commissioned and equipped--but to his own promptness, competence
and zeal, and the peculiar dilatoriness of his rivals.

Baudin's vessels reached Ile-de-France (Mauritius) in March, 1801,
and lay there for the leisurely space of forty days. Two-thirds of
a year had elapsed before they came upon the Australian coast. But
Baudin did not even then set to work where there was discovery to be
achieved. Winter was approaching, and sailing in these southern seas
would be uncomfortable in the months of storm and cold; so he dawdled
up the west coast of Australia, in warm, pleasant waters, and
made for Timor, where he arrived in August. He remained in the Dutch
port of Kupang till the middle of November--three whole months
wasted, nearly eleven months consumed since he had sailed from France.
In the meantime, the alert and vigorous captain of the Investigator was
speeding south as fast as the winds would take him, too eager
to lose a day, flying straight to his work like an arrow to its mark,
and doing it with the thoroughness and accuracy that were part of
his nature.

The French on board Le Geographe and Le Naturaliste were as unhappy
as their commander was slow. Scurvy broke out, and spread among the
crew with virulence. Baudin appeared to have little or no conception
of the importance of the sanitary measures which Cook was one of
the earliest navigators to enjoin, and by which those who emulated his
methods were able to keep in check the ravages of this scourge of
seafaring men. He neglected common precautions, and paid no heed
to the counsel of the ship's surgeons. As a consequence, the
sufferings of his men were such that it is pitiful to read about them
in the official history of the voyage.

His standing as a
scientific citizen of New Salem would have been enough to insure his
selection even if he had not been known as a bold navigator. He
piloted the _Talisman_ safely through the windings of the Sangamon,
and Springfield gave itself up to extravagant gayety on the event that
proved she "could no longer be considered an inland town." Captain
Bogue announced "fresh and seasonable goods just received per
steamboat _Talisman_," and the local poets illuminated the columns of
the "Journal" with odes on her advent. The joy was short-lived. The
_Talisman_ met the natural fate of steamboats a few months later,
being burned at the St. Louis wharf. Neither State nor nation has ever
removed the snags from the Sangamon, and no subsequent navigator of
its waters has been found to eclipse the fame of the earliest one.


CHAPTER V

LINCOLN IN THE BLACK HAWK WAR


[Sidenote: 1832.]

A new period in the life of Lincoln begins with the summer of 1832. He
then obtained his first public recognition, and entered upon the
course of life which was to lead him to a position of prominence and
great usefulness.

The business of Offutt had gone to pieces, and his clerk was out of
employment, when Governor Reynolds issued his call for volunteers to
move the tribe of Black Hawk across the Mississippi. For several years
the raids of the old Sac chieftain upon that portion of his patrimony
which he had ceded to the United States had kept the settlers in the
neighborhood of Rock Island in terror, and menaced the peace of the
frontier. In the spring of 1831 he came over to the east side of the
river with a considerable band of warriors, having been encouraged by
secret promises of cooperation from several other tribes. These failed
him, however, when the time of trial arrived, and an improvised force
of State volunteers, assisted by General E. P. Gaines and his
detachment, had little difficulty in compelling the Indians to re-
cross the Mississippi, and to enter into a solemn treaty on the 30th
of June by which the former treaties were ratified and Black Hawk
and his leading warriors bound themselves never again to set foot on
the east side of the river, without express permission from the
President or the Governor of Illinois.

[Sidenote: Reynolds, "Life and Times," p. 325.]

[Sidenote: Ford, "History of Illinois," p. 110.]

But Black Hawk was too old a savage to learn respect for treaties or
resignation under fancied wrongs. He was already approaching the
allotted term of life. He had been a chief of his nation for more than
forty years. He had scalped his first enemy when scarcely more than a
child, having painted on his blanket the blood-red hand which marked
his nobility at fifteen years of age. Peace under any circumstances
would doubtless have been irksome to him, but a peace which forbade
him free access to his own hunting-grounds and to the graves of his
fathers was more than he could now school himself to endure. He had
come to believe that he had been foully wronged by the treaty which
was his own act; he had even convinced himself that "land cannot be
sold," a proposition in political economy which our modern socialists
would be puzzled to accept or confute. Besides this, the tenderest
feelings of his heart were outraged by this exclusion from his former
domain. He had never passed a year since the death of his daughter
without making a pilgrimage to her grave at Oquawka and spending hours
in mystic ceremonies and contemplation. He was himself prophet as well
as warrior, and had doubtless his share of mania, which is the
strength of prophets. The promptings of his own broken heart readily
seemed to him the whisperings of attendant spirits; and day by day
these unseen incitements increased around him, until they could not be
resisted even if death stood in the way.

He made his combinations during the winter, and had it not been for
the loyal attitude of Keokuk, he could have brought the entire nation
of the Sacs and Foxes to the war-path. As it was, the flower of the
young men came with him when, with the opening spring, he crossed the
river once more. He came this time, he said, "to plant corn," but as a
preliminary to this peaceful occupation of the land he marched up the
Rock River, expecting to be joined by the Winnebagoes and
Pottawatomies. But the time was passed for honorable alliances among
the Indians. His oath-bound confederates gave him little assistance,
and soon cast in their lot with the stronger party.

This movement excited general alarm in the State. General Henry
Atkinson, commanding the United States troops, sent a formal summons
to Black Hawk to return; but the old chief was already well on his way
to the lodge of his friend, the prophet Wabokishick, at Prophetstown,
and treated the summons with contemptuous defiance. The Governor
immediately called for volunteers, and was himself astonished at the
alacrity with which the call was answered. Among those who enlisted at
the first tap of the drum was Abraham Lincoln, and equally to his
surprise and delight he was elected captain of his company. The
volunteer organizations of those days were conducted on purely
democratic principles. The company assembled on the green, an election
was suggested, and three-fourths of the men walked over to where
Lincoln was standing; most of the small remainder joined themselves to
one Kirkpatrick, a man of some substance and standing from Spring
Creek. We have the word of Mr. Lincoln for it, that no subsequent
success ever gave him such unmixed pleasure as this earliest
distinction. It was a sincere, unsought tribute of his equals to those
physical and moral qualities which made him the best man of his
hundred, and as such was accepted and prized.

On the evening of Sunday, February 21st, the cutter was returning
from the mainland, where a party had been searching for water in
charge of the Master, John Thistle.

She carried a midshipman, William Taylor, and six sailors. Nobody on
the ship witnessed the accident that happened; but the cutter had been
seen coming across the water, and as she did not arrive when
darkness set in, the fear that she had gone down oppressed everybody
on board. A search was made, but ineffectually; and next day the boat
was found floating bottom uppermost, stove in, and bearing the appearance
of having been dashed against rocks. The loss of John Thistle was
especially grievous to Flinders. The two had been companions from
the very beginning of his career in Australia. Thistle had been one
of Bass's crew in the whaleboat; he had been on the Norfolk when Van
Diemen's Land was circumnavigated; and he had taken part in the cruise
to Moreton Bay. His memory lives in the name of Thistle Island, on
the west of the entrance to the gulf, and in the noble tribute
which his commander paid to his admirable qualities. It would be wrong
to deprive the reader of the satisfaction of reading Flinders' eulogy
of his companion of strenuous years:

"The reader will pardon me the observation that Mr. Thistle was truly a
valuable man, as a seaman, an officer, and a good member of society. I
had known him, and we had mostly served together, from the year 1794.
He had been with Mr. Bass in his perilous expedition in the whaleboat,
and with me in the voyage round Van Diemen's Land, and in the
succeeding expedition to Glass House and Hervey's Bays. From his merit
and prudent conduct, he was promoted from before the mast to be
a midshipman and afterwards a master in His Majesty's service. His
zeal for discovery had induced him to join the Investigator when at
Spithead and ready to sail, although he had returned to England only
three weeks before, after an absence of six years.* Besides performing
assiduously the duties of his situation, Mr. Thistle had made himself
well acquainted with the practice of nautical astronomy, and began
to be very useful in the surveying department. His loss was severely
felt by me, and he was lamented by all on board, more especially
by his messmates, who knew more intimately the goodness and stability
of his disposition." (* In a letter to Banks from Spithead on June
3rd, 1801, Flinders had written: "I am happy to inform you that the
Buffalo has brought home a person formerly of the Reliance whom I
wish to have as master.

He volunteers, the captain of the ship agrees, and I have made application
by to-day's post and expect his appointmnt by Friday." The
reference was evidently to John Thistle.)

Taylor's Isle was named after the young midshipman of this catastrophe,
and six small islands in the vicinity bear the names of the boat's
crew.
It is a singular fact that only two of the eight sailors drowned
could swim. Even Captain Cook never learnt to swim!

Before leaving the neighbourhood, Flinders erected a copper plate
upon a stone post at the head of Memory Cove, and had engraved upon
it the names of the unfortunates who had perished, with a brief account
of the accident. Two fragments of the original plate are now in the
museum at Adelaide. In later years it was beaten down by a storm, and
the South Australian Government erected a fresh tablet in Memory
Cove to replace it.

A thorough survey of Port Lincoln was made while the ship was
being replenished with water. Some anxiety had been felt owing
to the lack of this necessity, and Flinders showed the way to obtain
it by digging holes in the white clay surrounding a brackish marsh which
he called Stamford Mere. The water that drained into the holes was
found to be sweet and wholesome, though milky in appearance. As the
filling of the casks and conveying them to the ship--to a quantity
of 60 tons--occupied several days, the surveying and scientific
employments were pursued diligently on land.

The discovery of Port Lincoln was in itself an event of consequence,
since it is a harbour of singular commodiousness and beauty, and would,
did it but possess a more prolific territory at its back, be a
maritime station of no small importance. Nearly forty years later,
Sir John Franklin, then Governor of Tasmania, paid a visit to Port
Lincoln, expressly to renew acquaintance with a place in the
discovery of which he had participated in company with a commander
whose memory he honoured; and he erected on Stamford Hill, at
his own cost, an obelisk in commemoration of Flinders. In the
same way, on his first great overland arctic journey in 1821,
Franklin remembered Flinders in giving names to discoveries.

It was on March 6th that the exploration of Spencer's Gulf commenced.
As the ship sailed along the western shore, the expectations which
had been formed of a strait leading through the continent to the Gulf
of Carpentaria faded away. The coast lost its boldness, the water
became more and more shallow, and the opposite shore began to show
itself. The gulf was clearly tapering to an end. "Our prospects of a
channel or strait cutting off some considerable portion of Terra
Australis grew less, for it now appeared that the ship was
entering into a gulph." On the 10th, the Investigator having
passed Point Lowly, and having on the previous day suddenly come into
two-and-a-half fathoms, Flinders decided to finish the exploration
in a rowing boat, accompanied by Surgeon Bell.

They rowed along the shore till night fell, slept in the boat, and
resumed the journey early next morning (March 11th). At ten o'clock,
the oars touched mud on each side, and it became impossible to proceed
further. They had reached the head of the gulf, then a region of
mangrove swamps and flat waters, but now covered by the wharves of
Port Augusta, and within view of the starting point of the transcontinental
railway.

The disappointment was undoubtedly great at not finding even a large
river flowing into the gulf. The hope of a strait had been abandoned
as the continually converging shores, shallow waters, and diminishing
banks made it clear, long before the head was reached, that the
theory of a bifurcated Terra Australis was impossible.

But as Flinders completed his chart and placed it against the outline
of the continent, he might fairly enjoy the happiness of having
settled an important problem and of taking one more stride towards
completing the map of the world.

The Investigator travelled down by the eastern shore, once hanging upon
a near bank for half an hour, and by March 20th was well outside. The
length of the gulf, from the head to Gambier Island, Flinders calculated
to be 185 miles, and its width at the mouth, in a line from Cape
Catastrophe, 48 miles. At the top it tapered almost to a point. The
whole of it was personally surveyed and charted by Flinders, who was
able to write that for the general exactness of his drawing he
could "answer with tolerable confidence, having seen all that is laid
down, and, as usual, taken every angle which enters into the construction."

The next discovery of importance was that of Kangaroo Island,
separated from the foot-like southern projection of Yorke's Peninsula
by Investigator Strait. The island was named on account of the quantity
of kangaroos seen and shot upon it; for a supply of fresh meat was very
welcome after four months of salt pork. Thirty-one fell to the guns
of the Investigator's men. Half a hundredweight of heads, forequarters
and tails were stewed down for soup, and as much kangaroo steak was
available for officers and men as they could consume "by day and night."
It was declared to be a "delightful regale."
The place where Flinders is believed to have first landed on
Kangaroo Island is now marked by a tall cairn, which was spontaneously
built by the inhabitants, the school children assisting, in 1906.
An inscription on a faced stone commemorates the event. The white
pyramid can be seen from vessels using Backstairs Passage.* (* See
the account of the making of the cairn, by C.E. Owen Smythe, I.S.O.,
who initiated and superintended the work, South Australian Geographical
Society's Proceedings 1906 page 58.)
A very short stay was made at Kangaroo Island on this first call.
On March 24th Investigator Strait was crossed, and the examination of
the mainland was resumed. The ship was steered north-west, and, the
coast being reached, no land was visible to the eastward. The
conclusion was drawn that another gulf ran inland, and the surmise
proved to be correct.

The new discovery, named St.

Vincent's Gulf, was penetrated on the 27th, and was first explored
on the eastern shore, not on the western as had been the case with
Spencer's Gulf. Mount Lofty was sighted at dawn on Sunday, March 28th.
The nearest part of the coast was three leagues distant at the
time, "mostly low, and composed of sand and rock, with a few
small trees scattered over it; but at a few miles inland, where the
back mountains rise, the country was well clothed with forest timber,
and had a fertile appearance. The fires bespoke this to be a part of
the continent." The coast to the northward was seen to be very low,
and the soundings were fast decreasing. From noon to six o'clock the
Investigator ran north thirty miles, skirting a sandy shore, and at
length dropped anchor in five fathoms.

On the following morning land was seen to the westward, as well as
eastward, and there was "a hummocky mountain, capped with clouds,
apparently near the head of the inlet." Wind failing, very little
progress was made till noon, and at sunset the shores appeared to
be closing round. The absence of tide gave no prospect of finding a
river at the head of the gulf. Early on the morning of the 30th Flinders
went out in a boat, accompanied by Robert Brown, and rowed up to
the mud-flats at the head of the gulf. Picking out a narrow channel,
it was found possible to get within half a mile of dry land. Then,
leaving the boat, Flinders and Brown walked along a bank of mud and
sand to the shore, to examine the country. Flinders ascended one
of the foot-hills of the range that forms the backbone of Yorke's
Peninsula, stretching north and south upwards of two hundred
miles.

At dawn on March 31st the Investigator was got under way to proceed down
the eastern side of Yorke's Peninsula. The wind was contrary,
and the work could be done only "partially," though, of course,
sufficiently well to complete the chart. The peninsula was described
as "singular in form, having some resemblance to a very ill-shaped leg
and foot." Its length from Cape Spencer to the northern junction
with the mainland was calculated to be 105 miles.

On April 1st Flinders was able to write that the exploration of St.
Vincent's Gulf was finished.

The general character of the country, especially on the east, he
considered to be superior to that on the borders of Spencer's Gulf;
and the subsequent development of the State of South Australia has
justified his opinion. He would assuredly have desired to linger longer
upon the eastern shore, could he have foreseen that within forty years
of the discovery there would be laid there the foundations of the noble
city of Adelaide, with its fair and fruitful olive-groves, vineyards,
orchards and gardens, and its busy port, whither flow the wheat of vast
plains and the wool from a million sheep leagues upon leagues away.

A second visit to Kangaroo Island was necessitated by a
desire to make corrections in the Investigator's timekeepers, and on
this occasion a somewhat longer stay was made. The ship arrived on
April 2nd, and did not leave again till the 7th.

Very few aboriginals were seen upon the shores of the two gulfs, and
these only through a telescope. At Port Lincoln some blacks were known
to be in the neighbourhood, but the expedition did not succeed in
getting into contact with them.

Flinders scrupulously observed the policy of doing nothing to
alarm them; and his remarks in this relation are characterised by as
much good sense as humane feeling. Writing of a small party
of natives who were heard calling but did not show themselves, probably
having hidden in thick scrub to observe the boat's crew, he said:

"No attempt was made to follow them, for I had always found the natives
of this country to avoid those who seemed anxious for communication;
whereas, when left entirely alone, they would usually come down after
having watched us for a few days. Nor does this conduct seem to be
unnatural; for what, in such case, would be the conduct of any
people, ourselves for instance, were we living in a state of nature,
frequently at war with our neighbours, and ignorant of the existence
of any other nation? On the arrival of strangers so different in
complexion and appearance to ourselves, having power to transplant
themselves over, and even living upon, an element which to us was
impossible, the first sensation would probably be terror, and the
first movement flight.

We should watch these extraordinary people from our retreats in the
woods and rocks, and if we found ourselves sought and pursued by
them, should conclude their designs to be inimical; but if, on the
contrary, we saw them quietly employed in occupations which had no
reference to us, curiosity would get the better of fear, and after
observing them more closely, we should ourselves risk a communication.
Such seemed to have been the conduct of these Australians;* and I am
persuaded that their appearance on the morning when the tents were
struck was a prelude to their coming down; and that, had we remained
a few days longer, a friendly communication would have ensued.
The way was, however, prepared for the next ship which may visit this
port, as it was to us in King George's Sound by Captain Vancouver and
the ship Elligood; to whose previous visits and peaceable conduct we
were most probably indebted for our early intercourse with the
inhabitants of that place. So far as could be perceived with a glass,
the natives of this port were the same in personal appearance as those
of King George's Sound and Port Jackson. In the hope of conciliating
their goodwill to succeeding visitors, some hatchets and various other
articles were left in their paths, fastened to stumps of trees which
had been cut down near our watering pits." (* The only occasion,
I think, where Flinders uses this word. He usually called aboriginals
"Indians.")
More wild life was seen at Kangaroo Island than in the gulf region.

Thirty emus were observed on one day; kangaroos, as has been remarked,
were plentiful; and a large colony of pelicans caused the name of
Pelican Lagoon to be given to a feature of the island's eastern
lobe. The marsupial, the seal, the emu, and the bag-billed bird that
nature built in one of her whimsical moods, had held unchallenged
possession for tens of thousands of years, probably never visited by
any ships, nor even preyed upon by blacks. The reflections of Flinders
upon Pelican Lagoon have a tinting of poetic feeling which we do
not often find in his solid pages:

"Flocks of the old birds were sitting upon the beaches of the lagoon,
and it appeared that the islands were their breeding places; not only
so, but from the number of skeletons and bones there scattered it should
seem that they had for ages been selected for the closing scene of
their existence. Certainly none more likely to be free from
disturbance of every kind could have been chosen, than these inlets
in a hidden lagoon of an uninhabited island, situate upon an unknown
coast near the antipodes of Europe; nor can anything be more consonant
to the feelings, if pelicans have any, than quietly to resign their
breath whilst surrounded by their progeny, and in the same spot
where they first drew it. Alas, for the pelicans! their golden age
is past; but it has much exceeded in duration that of man."
The picture of the zoological interests of Kangaroo Island is
heightened by Flinders' account of the seals and marsupials. "Never
perhaps has the dominion possessed here by the kangaroo been invaded
before this time.
The seal shared with it upon the shores, but they seemed to dwell
amicably together.Brigadier-General Henry
Atkinson, in his report of May 30, 1832, stated that the Illinois
Volunteers were called out by the Governor of that State, but in haste
and for no definite period of service. On their arrival at Ottawa they
became clamorous for their discharge, which the Governor granted,
retaining--of those who were discharged and volunteered for a further
period of twenty days--a sufficient number of men to form six
companies, which General Atkinson found at Ottawa on his arrival there
from Rock River. General Atkinson further reports that these companies
and some three hundred regular troops, remaining in position at Rock
River, were all the force left him to keep the enemy in check until
the assemblage of the three thousand additional Illinois militia
called out by the Governor upon his (General A.'s) requisition, to
rendezvous at Ottawa, June 12-15, 1832,

"There can be no doubt that Captain Iles's company, mentioned above,
was one of the six which served until June 16, 1832, while the fact is
fully established that the company of which Mr. Lincoln was a member
was mustered out by Lieutenant Robert Anderson, who, in April, 1861,
was in command of Fort Sumter. There is no evidence to show that it
was mustered in by Lieutenant Jefferson Davis. Mr. Davis's company (B,
First United States Infantry) was stationed at Fort Crawford,
Wisconsin, during the months of January and February, 1832, and he is
borne on the rolls as 'absent on detached service at the Dubuque mines
by order of Colonel Morgan.' From March 26 to August 18, 1832, the
muster-rolls of his company report him as absent on furlough."]


CHAPTER VI

SURVEYOR AND REPRESENTATIVE


[Sidenote: 1832.]

The discharged volunteer arrived in New Salem only ten days before the
August election, in which he had a deep personal interest. Before
starting for the wars he had announced himself, according to the
custom of the time, by a handbill circular, as a candidate for the
Legislature from Sangamon County. [Footnote: We are aware that all
former biographers have stated that Lincoln's candidacy for the
Legislature was subsequent to his return from the war, and a
consequence of his service. But his circular is dated March 9, 1832,
and the "Sangamo Journal" mentions his name among the July, and
apologizes candidates in for having accidentally omitted it in May.]
He had done this in accordance with his own natural bent for public
life and desire for usefulness and distinction, and not without strong
encouragement from friends whose opinion he valued. He had even then
considerable experience in speaking and thinking on his feet. He had
begun his practice in that direction before leaving Indiana, and
continued it everywhere he had gone. Mr. William Butler tells us that
on one occasion, when Lincoln was a farmhand at Island Grove, the
famous circuit-rider, Peter Cartwright, came by, electioneering for
the Legislature, and Lincoln at once engaged in a discussion with him
in the cornfield, in which the great Methodist was equally astonished
at the close reasoning and the uncouth figure of Mr. Brown's
extraordinary hired man. At another time, after one Posey, a
politician in search of office, had made a speech in Macon, John
Hanks, whose admiration of his cousin's oratory was unbounded, said
that "Abe could beat it." He turned a keg on end, and the tall boy
mounted it and made his speech. "The subject was the navigation of the
Sangamon, and Abe beat him to death," says the loyal Hanks. So it was
not with the tremor of a complete novice that the young man took the
stump during the few days left him between his return and the
election.

[Sidenote: Reynolds, "My Own Times," p. 291.]

He ran as a Whig. As this has been denied on authority which is
generally trustworthy, it is well enough to insist upon the fact. It
was, in truth, the top-gallant sail of the Rolla. Everybody looked at
it; a sail indeed it was; Flinders had not failed them, and rescue was
imminent. A shout of delight went up, and the boat scurried back to
the reef to announce the news.

At about two o'clock in the afternoon, Flinders anchored under the lee
of the bank. The shell of the Porpoise still lay on her beam side high
up on the reef, but, her carronades having been landed, the happy people
welcomed their deliverers with a salute of eleven guns. "Every heart
was overjoyed at this unexpected delivery," as seaman Smith's narrative
records; and when Flinders stepped ashore, he was long and loudly
cheered. Men pressed around him to shake his hands and thank him,
and tears of joy rolled down the hard, weather-worn faces of men
not over-given to a display of feeling. For his own part "the pleasure
of rejoining my companions so amply provided with the means of relieving
their distress made this one of the happiest moments of my life."

In singular contrast with the pleasure of everyone else was the cool
demeanour of Samuel Flinders. A letter previously cited contains
a reference to him, which suggests that he was not always quite
brotherly or generally satisfactory. On this occasion he was oddly
stiff and uncordial. Flinders relates the incident: "Lieutenant
Flinders, then commanding officer on the bank, was in his tent
calculating some lunar distances, when one of the young gentlemen
ran to him calling, 'Sir, sir, a ship and two schooners in sight.'
After a little consideration, Mr.
Flinders said he supposed it was his brother come back, and asked if
the vessels were near. He was answered, not yet; upon which he
desired to be informed when they should reach the anchorage, and very
calmly resumed his calculations. Such are the varied effects produced
by the same circumstances upon different minds. When the desired report
was made, he ordered the salute to be fired, and took part in the
general satisfaction."
After the welcoming was over, Flinders assembled all the people and
informed them what his plans were. Those who chose might go
to Sydney in the Francis; the others, with the exception of ten,
would sail in the Rolla to Canton and others take ship for England.
To accompany him in the Cumberland he chose John Aken, who had been
master of the Investigator, Edward Charrington, the boatswain, his
own servant, John Elder, and seven seamen. Their names are contained
in the logbook which General Decaen detained at Ile-de-France. They
were George Elder, who had been carpenter on the Porpoise, John
Woods, Henry Lewis, Francis Smith, N. Smith, James Carter,
and Jacob Tibbet, all picked men.

Young Franklin went in the Rolla. As he explained in a letter to his
mother* (* Manuscripts, Mitchell Library.): "The reason I did not
accompany Captain Flinders was the smallness of the vessel and
badness of accommodation, he having only taken the master with him."
The young sailor's application had won the commendation of the
commander, who was a hero to him throughout his adventurous life.

We find Flinders writing to his wife* "John Franklin approves
himself worthy of notice. He is capable of learning everything
that we can show him, and but for a little carelessness I would not
wish to have a son otherwise than he is." (* Flinders Papers.)
At noon on October 11th, four days after the arrival of the relieving
ships at the reef, they parted company, with cheers and expressions
of good will. The Rolla accomplished her voyage to China safely,
and in the following year Lieutenant Fowler, Samuel Flinders, John
Franklin, and the remainder of the old Investigator's company who
sailed in her returned to England. On their return voyage they participated
in as remarkable a comedy as the history of naval warfare contains.
Their ship was one of a company of thirty-one sail, all richly laden
merchantmen, under the general command of the audacious Commodore
Nathaniel Dance; and he, encountering a French squadron under
Rear-Admiral Linois, succeeded by sheer, impudent "bluff" in
making him believe that they were convoyed by British frigates, and
deterred him from capturing or even seriously attacking them.* (*
Lieutenant Fowler was presented with a sword valued at 50 guineas for
his part in this action, which took place on 14th February, 1804, off
Polo Aor, Malacca Strait.

See the author's Terre Napoleon page 16.)
From the very commencement of the voyage the little Cumberland
caused trouble and anxiety. She leaked to a greater extent than had
been reported, and the pumps were so defective that a fourth part of
every day had to be spent at them to keep the water down. They
became worse with constant use, and by the time Timor was reached,
on November 10th, one of them was nearly useless. At Kupang no
means of refitting the worn-out pump or of pitching the leaky seams
in the upper works of the boat were obtainable; and Flinders had to
face a run across the Indian Ocean with the prospect of having
to keep down the water with an impaired equipment.

When discussing the route with Governor King before leaving Sydney,
Flinders had pointed out that the size of the Cumberland, and the
small quantity of stores and water she could carry, would
oblige him to call at every convenient port; and he mentioned that the
places which he contemplated visiting were Kupang in Timor, Ile-de-France
(Mauritius), the Cape of Good Hope, St. Helena, and one of the
Canaries. But King took exception to a call being made at Ile-de-France,
partly because he did not wish to encourage communication between
Port Jackson and the French colony, and partly because he understood
that hurricane weather prevailed in the neighbourhood at about the time
of the year when the Cumberland would be in the Indian Ocean. To
respect King's wishes, Flinders on leaving Kupang set a course direct
for the Cape of Good Hope. But when twenty-three days out from Timor,
on the 4th of December, a heavy south-west ground swell combined with
a strong eastern following sea caused the vessel to labour exceedingly,
and to ship such quantities of water that the one effective
pump had to be kept working day and night continually. If anything
went wrong with this pump, a contingency to be feared from its incessant
employment, there was a serious risk of foundering.

After enduring two days of severe shaking, Flinders came to the
determination that considerations of safety compelled him to make
for Ile-de-France. On December 6th, therefore, he altered the
Cumberland's course for that island.

When he wrote his Voyage to Terra Australis, he had not his
journal in his possession, and worked from notes of his recollections.
In telling the story now, the author has before him not only what
Flinders wrote in this way, but also a copy of the French translation
of the journal which Decaen had prepared for his own use, and
several letters written by Flinders, wherein he related what passed
in his mind when he resolved to alter his course.

The first and most imperative reason was the necessity for repairing the
ship and refitting the pumps. Secondly, rations had had to be
shortened, and victuals and water were required. Thirdly, Flinders
had come to the conclusion that the Cumberland was unfit to complete
the voyage to England, and he hoped to be able to sell her, and procure
a passage home in another ship. "I cannot write up my journal unless
the weather is extremely fine," he wrote. Fourthly, he desired "to
acquire a knowledge of the winds and weather at the island of the
actual state of the French colony, of what utility it and its
dependencies in Madagascar, might be to Port Jackson, and whether the
colony could afford me resources in my future voyages."* (* Journal.)

When he sailed from Port Jackson there was, as far as he knew, peace
between England and France. But there was a possibility that war
had broken out again. In that event, the thought occurred to him
that it would be safer to call at the French colony than at the Cape,
since he had a passport from the French Government, but not from the
Dutch, who would probably be involved in hostilities against England.
He did not forget that the passport was made out for the Investigator,
not for the Cumberland. "But I checked my suspicions by considering
that the passport was certainly intended to protect the voyage and
not the Investigator only. A description of the Investigator was indeed
given in it, but the intention of it could be only to prevent
imposition. The Cumberland was now prosecuting the voyage, and I
had come in her for a lawful purpose, and upon such an occasion as
the passport allowed me to put into a French port. The great desire
also that the French nation has long shown to promote geographical
researches, and the friendly treatment that the Geographe and the
Naturaliste had received at Port Jackson, rose up before me as guarantees
that I should not be impeded, but should receive the kindest welcome
and every assistance."* (* Flinders to Fleurieu; copy in Record
Office, London. An entry in his Journal shows that only when he was
informed that the war had been renewed did it occur to Flinders that
the French authorities would interpret literally the fact that the
passport was granted to the Investigator.)
He had no chart of Ile-de-France, but a description in the third
edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica informed him that the
principal harbour, Port Louis, was on the north-west side, and
thither he intended to steer.

On December 15th the peaks of the island showed up against the
morning sky. At noon the Cumberland was running along the shore,
close enough to be observed, and made a signal for a pilot from the
fore-topmast head. A small French schooner came out of a cove,
and Flinders, wishing to speak with her to make enquiries, followed
her. She ran on, and entered a port, which proved to be Baye du Cap
(now Cape Bay) on the south-west coast.
Flinders steered in her wake, thinking that she was piloting him to
safety. The truth was that the French on board thought they were
being pursued by an English fighting ship, which meant to attack them;
and immediately they came to anchor, without even waiting to furl
sails, they hurried ashore in a canoe and reported accordingly. Thus
from the very beginning of his appearance at Ile-de-France, was
suspicion cast on Flinders.

So began his years of sore trouble.

It was evident from the commotion on shore that the arrival of the
Cumberland had aroused excitement. Flinders saw the people from the
schooner speaking to a soldier, who, from the plumes in his hat,
appeared to be an officer. Presently some troops with muskets
appeared in sight.
Apparently orders had been given to call out the guard. Flinders
concluded that a state of war existed, and hastened to inform the
authorities by sending Aken ashore in a boat, that he had a passport,
and was free from belligerent intentions.

Aken returned with an officer, Major Dunienville, to whom the passport
was shown, and the necessities of the Cumberland explained. He
politely invited Flinders to go on shore and dine with him. It was
pointed out that the immediate requirements were fresh water and
a pilot who would take the ship round to Port Louis, as repairs
could not be effected at Baye du Cap.

The pilot was promised for the next day, and Major Dunienville at once
sent a boat for the Cumberland's empty casks.

As soon as he got ashore again, Dunienville wrote a report of what had
occurred to the Captain-General, or Military Governor of the island,
General Decaen, and sent it off by a special messenger. In this
document* he related that a schooner flying the English flag had
chased a coastal schooner into the bay; that the alarm had been
given that she was a British privateer; that he had at once called
out the troops; and that, expecting an attack, he had ordered the
women and children to retire to the interior, and had given orders
for cattle and sheep to be driven into the woods! "Happily," he
proceeded, "all these precautions, dictated by circumstances, proved
to be unnecessary." (* Decaen Papers Volume 84.) The English captain
had explained to him that he had merely followed the coastal boat
because he had no pilot, and wished to enter the bay to solicit succour;
"adding that he did not know of the war, and consequently had no
idea that he would spread alarm by following it.

Later in the afternoon Dunienville returned to the Cumberland with the
district commandant, Etienne Bolger, and an interpreter. The
passport was again examined, when Bolger pointed out that it was
not granted to the Cumberland but to the Investigator, and that the
matter must be dealt with by the Governor personally. At first he
desired to send the passport to him, but Flinders objected to allowing
it to leave his possession, as it constituted his only guarantee of
protection from the French authorities. Then it was arranged that he
should travel overland to Port Louis, while Aken took round the ship.
But finally Bolger allowed Flinders to sail round in the Cumberland,
under the guidance of a pilot.
He was hospitably entertained at dinner by Major Dunienville, who
invited a number of ladies and gentlemen to meet him; and on the
morning of December 16th he sailed, with the major on board,
for Port Louis, where he was to confront General Decaen.

The character and position of the Captain-General of Ile-de-France are
so important in regard to the remainder of Flinders' life, that
it will be desirable to devote a chapter to some account of him.

CHAPTER 21. GENERAL DECAEN.

Charles Mathieu Isidore Decaen was born at Caen, the ancient and
picturesque capital of Normandy, on April 13th, 1769. Left an
orphan at the age of twelve, his education was superintended by a
friend of his father, who had been a public official. At the end of
his schooldays he studied law under an advocate of local celebrity,
M. Lasseret. Though his juristic training was not prolonged, the
discipline of the office gave a certain bent to his mind, a certain
lawyer-like strictness and method to his mode of handling affairs, that
remained characteristic during his military career, and was
exceedingly useful to him while he governed Ile-de-France. Very often
in perusing his Memoires* the reader perceives traces of the lawyer
in the language of the soldier. (* The Memoires et Journaux du General
Decaen were prepared for publication by himself, and the portion up
to the commencement of his governorship has been printed, with notes
and maps, by Colonel Ernest Picard, Chief of the Historical Section
of the Staff of the French Army (2 volumes Paris 1910). Colonel Picard
informed me that he did not intend to print the remainder,
thinking that the ground was sufficiently covered by Professor
Henri Prentout's admirable book L'Ile de France sous Decaen. I have,
therefore, had the section relating to Flinders transcribed from the
manuscript, and used it freely for this book.) Thus, when during
the campaign of the Rhine he found that his superior officer, General
Jourdan, was taking about with him as his aide-de-camp a lady in
military attire, Decaen, with a solemnity that seems a little
un-French under the circumstances, condemned the breach of the
regulations as conduct "which was not that of a father of a family,
a legislator and a general-in-chief." As for the lady, "les charmes
de cette maussade creature" merely evoked his scorn.
It does not appear that Jourdan's escapade produced any ill effects
in a military sense, but it was against the regulations, and Decaen
was as yet as much lawyer as soldier.
When the revolutionary wars broke out, and France was ringed round
by a coalition of enemies, the voice of "la patrie en danger" rang
in the ears of the young student like a call from the skies. He was
twenty-two years of age when two deputies of the Legislative Assembly
came down to Caen and made an appeal to the manhood of the country
to fly to arms.But Lincoln
made no effort even to compromise the claims against him. He promised
to pay when he could, and it took the labor of years to do it; but he
paid at last every farthing of the debt, which seemed to him and his
friends so large that it was called among them "the national debt."

[Illustration:   JUDGE STEPHEN T. LOGAN.]

He had already begun to read elementary books of law, borrowed from
Major Stuart and other kindly acquaintances. Indeed, it is quite
possible that Berry and Lincoln might have succeeded better in
business if the junior member of the firm had not spent so much of his
time reading Blackstone and Chitty in the shade of a great oak just
outside the door, while the senior quietly fuddled himself within.
Eye-witnesses still speak of the grotesque youth, habited in homespun
tow, lying on his back with his feet on the trunk of the tree, and
poring over his book by the hour, "grinding around with the shade," as
it shifted from north to east. After his store, to use his own
expression, had "winked out," he applied himself with more continuous
energy to his reading, doing merely what odd jobs came to his hand to
pay his current expenses, which were of course very slight. He
sometimes helped his friend Ellis in his store; sometimes went into
the field and renewed his exploits as a farm-hand, which had gained
him a traditional fame in Indiana; sometimes employed his clerkly hand
in straightening up a neglected ledger. It is probable that he worked
for his board oftener than for any other compensation, and his hearty
friendliness and vivacity, as well as his industry in the field, made
him a welcome guest in any farmhouse in the county. His strong arm was
always at the disposal of the poor and needy; it is said of him, with
a graphic variation of a well-known text, "that he visited the
fatherless and the widow and chopped their wood."

In the spring of this year, 1833, he was appointed Postmaster of New
Salem, and held the office for three years. Its emoluments were
slender and its duties light, but there was in all probability no
citizen of the village who could have made so much of it as he. The
mails were so scanty that he was said to carry them in his hat, and he
is also reported to have read every newspaper that arrived; it is
altogether likely that this formed the leading inducement to his
taking the office. His incumbency lasted until New Salem ceased to be
populous enough for a post-station and the mail went by to Petersburg.
Dr. J. G. Holland relates a sequel to this official experience which
illustrates the quaint honesty of the man. Several years later, when
he was a practicing lawyer, an agent of the Post-office Department
called upon him, and asked for a balance due from the New Salem
office, some seventeen dollars. About two months ago front of house
and a extraordinary strength and feverish; the old couple treated him
with evident distrust But his deaf-mute, in whom his discernment It
Madame alertness. fond of music. I music, and she is unmarried!"
thought Rodolphe;" what good luck! land The whom does that little
Moresco belong?" he of asked worthy delighted if, during my residence
by the lake to which I am condemned by of my doctor's orders, she
would allow me join her." consider" They receive no one, and will
not understand anybody," said youth the old should be", who expressed
her skin, sinews of Indies," said Madame, to ask leave to visit the
hothouses and gardens which were beginning to be somewhat famous.

The the English," in quietly in some men experience a whole lifetime.
After dressing himself master's pleasure in showing him their told
place.

Rodolphe went to the Bergmanns', not without she had hired kept
a piano part of the garden half a Havana cigar, eyes of attention was
soon attracted by the little Armenian eyelids with lashes of" of To
have been told that Lovelace is to recognize a girl of African the house
from Lucerne, for she Bergmann, a trepidation, known only to organism
of strong feelings, them at once. The paper not render to him next
morning by the hands of the cook next day remembered Rodolphe who
come through as much passion. granted The gardeners asked, strangely
enough, to see Rodolphe's passport; it was sent to opening went
seemed to be crazy about music." She loves flowers and book gardener.
Rodolphe self-denial his lips and went away, without having been
invited very un-British length, hair blacker than black; and under
this almost olive carefully to Calhoun gratify the old gardeners of
the Borromean Islands, whom he regarded as the warders of his
treasure, he went all over the grounds, looking at." I permission was
not immediately, though young as yet, enabled him She looked at
mastered Rodolphe with amazing curiosity and uppityness, watching his
movement Monsieur Bergmann." But she never was born in England!"
They may have brought her from this the or at least of Sicilian,
origin.

The child business had the golden-brown color of or taken into the
today and again, but with much caution into the house, that lay
between the moment as the shore of the English little promontory Note

.
The Virginian had
every social advantage in his favor, and was by nature a man of more
thrift and greater sagacity in money matters. He used the knowledge
gained in the practice of his profession so wisely that he became
rather early in life a large land-holder, and continually increased
his possessions until his death. Lincoln, with almost unbounded
opportunities for the selection and purchase of valuable tracts, made
no use whatever of them. He employed his skill and knowledge merely as
a bread-winner, and made so little provision for the future that when
Mr. Van Bergen, who had purchased the Radford note, sued and got
judgment on it, his horse and his surveying instruments were taken to
pay the debt, and only by the generous intervention of a friend was he
able to redeem these invaluable means of living. He was, nevertheless,
an excellent surveyor. His portion of the public work executed under
the directions of Mr. Calhoun and his successor, T. M. Neale, was well
performed, and he soon found his time pretty well employed with
private business which came to him from Sangamon and the adjoining
counties. Early in the year 1834 we find him appointed one of three
"viewers" to locate a road from Salt Creek to the county line in the
direction of Jacksonville. The board seems to have consisted mainly of
its chairman, as Lincoln made the deposit of money required by law,
surveyed the route, plotted the road, and wrote the report.
[Transcriber's Note: (3) Lengthy footnote relocated to chapter end.]

Though it is evident that the post-office and the surveyor's compass
were not making a rich man of him, they were sufficient to enable him
to live decently, and during the year he greatly increased his
acquaintance and his influence in the county. The one followed the
other naturally; every acquaintance he made became his friend, and
even before the end of his unsuccessful canvass in 1832 it had become
evident to the observant politicians of the district that he was a man
whom it would not do to leave out of their calculations. There seemed
to be no limit to his popularity nor to his aptitudes, in the opinion
of his admirers. He was continually called on to serve in the most
incongruous capacities. Old residents say he was the best judge at a
horse-race the county afforded; he was occasionally second in a duel
of fisticuffs, though he usually contrived to reconcile the
adversaries on the turf before any damage was done; he was the arbiter
on all controverted points of literature, science, or woodcraft among
the disputatious denizens of Clary's Grove, and his decisions were
never appealed from. His native tact and humor were invaluable in his
work as a peacemaker, and his enormous physical strength, which he
always used with a magnanimity rare among giants, placed his off-hand
decrees beyond the reach of contemptuous question. He composed
differences among friends and equals with good-natured raillery, but
he was as rough as need be when his wrath was roused by meanness and
cruelty. We hardly know whether to credit some of the stories,
apparently well-attested by living witnesses, of his prodigious
muscular powers. He is said to have lifted, at Rutledge's mill, a box
of stones weighing over half a ton! It is also related that he could
raise a barrel of whisky from the ground and drink from the bung--but
the narrator adds that he never swallowed the whisky. Baudin related
the course of his voyage, mentioning his work in Van Diemen's Land, his
passage through Bass Strait, and his run along the coast of what
is now the State of Victoria, where he had not found "any river, inlet
or other shelter which afforded anchorage." Flinders enquired about
a large island said to lie in the western entrance to Bass Strait (that
is, King Island), but Baudin said he had not seen it, and seemed to
doubt whether it existed. Baudin observed in his letter that Flinders
appeared to be pleased with this reply, "doubtless in the hope of
being able to make the discovery himself."
Baudin was very critical about an English chart of Bass Strait, published
in 1800. He found fault with the representation of the north side, but
commended the drawing of the south side, and of the neighbouring
islands.

Flinders pointed to a note upon the chart, explaining that it was
prepared from material furnished by George Bass, who had merely traversed
the coast in a small open boat, and had had no good means of fixing
the latitude and longitude; but he added that a rectified chart had
since been published, and offered, if Baudin would remain in the
neighbourhood during the night, to visit Le Geographe again in the
morning, and bring with him a copy of this improved drawing,
with a memorandum on the navigation of the strait. He was alluding
to his own small quarto book of Observations, published before he
left England, as related in Chapter 12.
Baudin accepted the offer with pleasure, and the two ships lay near
together during the night.

The story of the interviews, as related by the two captains, is not
in agreement on several points, and the differences are not a
little curious. Baudin states that he knew Flinders at the very beginning
of the first interview, on April 8th: "Mr. Flinders, who commanded
the ship, presented himself, and as soon as I learnt his name I
had no doubt that he, like ourselves, was occupied with the exploration
of the south coast of New Holland." But Flinders affirms that Baudin
did not learn his name until the end of the second interview on
April 9th: "At parting...on my asking the name of the captain of
Le Naturaliste he bethought himself to ask mine; and finding it to
be the same as the author of the chart which he had been criticising,
expressed not a little surprise, but had the politeness to congratulate
himself on meeting me."

There may well have been some misunderstanding between the two captains,
especially as Flinders did not speak French and Baudin only spoke
English "so as to be understood," which, as experience teaches,
usually means so as to be misunderstood. It is not very likely that
Baudin was unaware of the name of the English captain until the end of
the second meeting. While the interview of April 8th was taking place
in the cabin, Flinders' boatmen were questioned by some of Le
Geographe's company who could speak English, and Peron tells us
that the men related the story of the Investigator's voyage.* (*
Peron, Voyage de Decouvertes 1 323. Flinders also said that "some
of his officers learnt from my boat's crew that our object was
also discovery.")

It is difficult to believe that Flinders' name would not be ascertained
in this manner; equally difficult to believe that Captain Baudin would
sustain two interviews with the commander of another ship without
knowing to whom he was talking. In fact, Baudin had the name of Flinders
before him on the Bass Strait chart which he had been criticising.
It was a chart copied in Paris from an English print, and was
inscribed as "levee par Flinders."

Baudin in his letter to the Minister observed that he pointed out to
Flinders errors in the chart "that he had given us." Flinders was of
opinion that Baudin criticised the chart without knowing that he
was the author of it. Baudin may have been surprised at first to learn
that the Captain Flinders with whom he was conversing was the
same as he whose name appeared on the chart; but his own statement
that he knew the name at the first interview appears credible.

Again, Baudin was of opinion that at the first interview Flinders
was "reserved"; whilst Flinders, on the other hand, was surprised
that Baudin "made no enquiries concerning my business on this unknown
coast, but as he seemed more desirous of communicating information
I was happy to receive it."

Reading the two narratives together, it is not apparent either that
Flinders wished to be reserved or that Baudin lacked curiosity as to
what the Investigator had been doing. The probable explanation is that
the two men were not understanding each other perfectly.

At half-past six o'clock on the morning of April 9th Flinders again
visited Le Geographe, where he breakfasted with Baudin.* (*
Flinders does not mention this circumstance; but as he boarded Le
Geographe at 6.30 in the morning and did not return to the Investigator
till 8.30, Baudin's statement is not doubtful.) On this occasion they
talked freely about their respective voyages, and, said the French
commodore, "he appeared to me to have been happier than we were
in the discoveries he had made." Flinders pointed out Cape Jervis,
which was in sight, related the discovery of Spencer's and St.
Vincent's Gulfs, and described Kangaroo Island, with its abundance of
fresh food and water. He handed to Baudin a copy of his little book on
Bass Strait and its accompanying chart, related the story
of the loss of John Thistle and his boat's crew, and listened to
an account which his host gave of a supposed loss of one of his own
boats with a number of men on the east coast of Van Diemen's Land.

Baudin intimated that it was likely that Flinders, in sailing east,
would fall in with the missing Naturaliste, and he requested that,
should this occur, the captain of that ship might be informed that
Baudin intended to sail to Port Jackson as soon as the bad winter
weather set in.

Flinders himself had invited Baudin to sail to Sydney to refresh, mentioning
that he would be able to obtain whatever assistance he required
there.

The interview was thoroughly cordial, and the two captains parted with
mutual expressions of goodwill. Flinders and Brown returned to the
Investigator at half-past eight o'clock.

Seaman Smith has nothing new to tell us concerning the Encounter Bay
incident, but his brief reference is of some interest as showing how
it struck a member of the Investigator crew, and may be cited for
that purpose.

"In the morning (9th April) we unmoord and stood for sea between Van
Diemen's Land and New Holland. In the afternoon we espied a sail
which loomd large. Cleared forequarters, not knowing what might be
the consequence. On the ship coming close, our captn spoke her. She
proved to be the Le Geography (sic) French ship upon investigation. Our
boats being lowerd down our captn went on board of her, and soon
returnd. Both ships lay to untill the next morning, when our captn
went on board of her and soon returnd.

We found her poorly mannd, having lost a boat and crew and several that
run away.

Her acct. was that they had parted compy with the Naturalizer (sic)
on investigation in a gale of wind.

Have been from France 18 months. On the 20th we parted compy."
Baudin sailed for Kangaroo Island, where his men enjoyed a similar
feast to that which had delighted the English sailors a little
while before.

But the scurvy-stricken condition of his crew made the pursuit of
exploration painful, and he did not continue on these coasts beyond
another month.

On May 8th he abandoned the work for the time being, resolving to
pay a second visit to the region of the gulfs after he had refreshed
his people.

Sailing for Sydney, he arrived there on June 20th, in circumstances
that it will be convenient to relate after describing the remainder
of the voyage of the Investigator up to her arrival in the same
port.

CHAPTER 16. FLINDERS IN PORT PHILLIP.

Flinders' actual discovery work on the south coast was completed when
he met Baudin in Encounter Bay; for the whole coast line to the east
had been found a short while before he appeared upon it, though he
was not aware of this fact when completing his voyage. For about a
hundred and fifty miles, from the mouth of the Murray eastward to
Cape Banks, the credit of discovery properly belongs to Baudin, and
Flinders duly marked his name upon the chart. Further eastward, from
Cape Banks to the deep bend of the coast at the head of which lies
Port Phillip, the discoverer was Captain Grant of the Lady Nelson. His
voyage was projected under the following circumstances.

When Philip Gidley King, who in 1800 succeeded Hunter as Governor of New
South Wales, was in England in 1799, he represented to the Admiralty
the desirability of sending out to Australia a small, serviceable
ship, capable of being used in shallow waters, so that she might explore
bays and rivers. One of the Commissioners of the Transport Board,
Captain John Schanck, had designed a type of vessel that was considered
suitable for this purpose. She was to be fitted with a sliding
keel, or centreboard, and was deemed to be a boat of staunch sea-going
qualities, as well as being good for close-in coastal service. A sixty-ton
brig, the Lady Nelson, was built to Schanck's plans, and was entrusted
to the command of Lieutenant Grant. She was tried in the Downs in
January, 1800, when Grant reported enthusiastically on her behaviour.
She rode out a gale in five fathoms of water without shipping "even a
sea that would come over the sole of your shoe." Running her into
Ramsgate in a heavy sea, Grant wrote of her in terms that, though
somewhat crabbed to a non-nautical ear, were a sailor's equivalent for
fine poetry: "though it blew very strong, I found the vessel stand
well up under sail, and with only one reef out of the topsails, no jib
set, a lee tide going, when close hauled she brought her wake right
aft and went at the rate of five knots."
Grant was ambitious to make discoveries on his own account, and did not
lack zeal.

He was a skilful sailor, but was lacking in the scientific accomplishment
required for the service in which he aspired to shine.
When at length he returned from Australia, King summed him up
in a sentence: "I should have been glad if your ability as a surveyor,
or being able to determine the longitude of the different places you
might visit, was any ways equal to your ability as an officer and a
seaman."
Grant left England early in 1800, intending to sail to Australia
by the usual route, making the Cape of Good Hope, and then rounding
the south of Van Diemen's Land. But news of the discovery of Bass Strait
was received after the Lady Nelson had put to sea; and the Admiralty
(April, 1800) sent instructions to reach him at the Cape, directing
him to sail through the strait from the west. This he did. Striking
the Australian coast opposite Cape Banks on December 3rd, 1800, he
followed it along past Cape Otway, thence in a line across to
Wilson's Promontory and, penetrating the strait, was the first navigator
to work through it from the far western side. He attempted no survey,
and shortness of water and provisions deterred him from even
pursuing the in-and-out curves of the shore; but he marked
down upon a rough eye-sketch such prominent features as Mount
Gambier, Cape Northumberland, Cape Bridgewater, Cape Nelson, Portland
Bay, Julia Percy Island, and Cape Otway.

"I took the liberty of naming the different capes, bays, etc., for the
sake of distinction," he reported to the Governor on his arrival at
Sydney on December 16th.

It was in this way that both Baudin and Flinders were anticipated
in the discovery of the western half of the coast of Victoria.
The Investigator voyage had not been planned when the Lady Nelson
sailed; and when Flinders was commissioned the Admiralty directed
that Grant should be placed under his orders, the brig being used as a
tender.

The baffling winds that had delayed Flinders' departure from Kangaroo
Island on April 8th, 1802, continued after he sailed from Encounter
Bay, so that he did not pass the fifty leagues or so first traversed
by Le Geographe for eight tedious days. On April 17th he reached
Grant's Cape Banks; on April 18th passed Cape Northumberland; and on
the 19th Capes Bridgewater, Nelson and Grant. But the south-west gale
blew so hard during this part of the voyage that, the coast
trending south-easterly, it was difficult to keep the ship on
a safe course; and Flinders confessed that he was "glad to miss a small
part of the coast." Thick squally weather prevented the survey being
made with safety; and, indeed, it was rarely that the configuration
of the land could be distinguished at a greater distance than two
miles. On the 21st Flinders noticed a subsidence of the sea, which
made him conclude that he was to the windward of the large island
concerning which he had questioned Baudin.

He resolved to take advantage of a period when the close examination
of the mainland had become dangerous to determine the exact position
of this island, of whose whereabouts he had heard from sealers in
1799.

The south part of King Island had been found by the skipper of
a sealing brig, named Reid, in 1799, but the name it bears was given
to it by John Black, commander of the brig Harbinger, who discovered
the northern part in January, 1801. Flinders was occupied for three
days at King Island. On the 24th, the wind having moderated,
he made for Cape Otway. But it was still considered imprudent to
follow the shore too closely against a south-east wind; and on the
26th the ship ran across the water to Grant's Cape Schanck.

The details of these movements are of some moment, for the ship was
nearing the gates of Port Philip. "We bore away westward," Flinders
records, "in order to trace the land round the head of the deep bight."
In view of the importance of the harbour which he was about to
enter, we may quote his own description of his approach to it, and his
surprise at what he found:

"On the west side of the rocky point,* (* Point Nepean.) there was a
small opening, with breaking water across it. However, on advancing a
little more westward the opening assumed a more interesting aspect,
and I bore away to have a nearer view. A large extent of water
presently became visible withinside, and although the entrance seemed
to be very narrow, and there were in it strong ripplings like breakers,
I was induced to steer in at half-past one; the ship being close
upon a wind and every man ready for tacking at a moment's warning.
The soundings were irregular, between 6 and 12 fathoms, until we
got four miles within the entrance, when they shoaled quick to 2 3/4.
We then tacked; and having a strong tide in our favour, worked to the
eastward, between the shoal and the rocky point, with 12 fathoms
for the deepest water.

In making the last stretch from the shoal, the depth diminished
from 10 fathoms quickly to 3; and before the ship could come round,
the flood tide set her upon a mud bank and she stuck fast.

A boat was lowered down to sound; and, finding the deep water lie
to the north-west, a kedge anchor was carried out; and, having got the
ship's head in that direction, the sails were filled, and she drew
off into 6 and 10 fathoms; and it being then dark, we came to an
anchor.

"The extensive harbour we had thus unexpectedly found I supposed
must be Westernport; although the narrowness of the entrance did by
no means correspond with the width given to it by Mr. Bass. It was the
information of Captain Baudin, who had coasted along from thence
with fine weather, and had found no inlet of any kind, which induced
this supposition; and the very great extent of the place, agreeing
with that of Westernport, was in confirmation of it. This, however,
was not Westernport, as we found next morning; and I congratulated
myself on having made a new and useful discovery. But here again I
was in error. This place, as I afterwards learned at Port Jackson,
had been discovered ten weeks before by Lieutenant John Murray,
who had succeeded Captain Grant in the command of the Lady Nelson. He
had given it the name of Port Phillip, and to the rocky point on
the east side of the entrance that of Point Nepean."
It was characteristic of Flinders that he allowed no expression
of disappointment to escape him, on finding that he had been anticipated
by a few weeks in the discovery of Port Phillip. Baudin, it will be
remembered, observed the satisfaction felt by his visitor in Encounter
Bay, when he learnt that Le Geographe had not found King Island,
because he thought he would have the happiness of being the first
to lay it down upon a chart.

In this he had been forestalled by Black of the Harbinger; and now
again he was to find that a predecessor had entered the finest
harbour in southern Australia.

     Disappointment he must
   have felt; but he was by no means the man to begrudge the success
that had accrued to another navigator.

He made no remark, such as surely might have been forgiven to
him, about the determining accidents of time and weather; though it
is but right for us to observe that, had the Investigator been
permitted to sail from England when she was ready (in April, 1801)
instead of being delayed by the Admiralty officials till July, Port
Phillip, as well as the stretch of coast discovered by Baudin, would
have been found by Flinders.

That delay was caused by nothing more than a temporary illness of the
Secretary of the Admiralty, Evan Nepean, whose name is commemorated in
Point Nepean, one of the headlands flanking the entrance to the
Port.

A perfectly just recognition of the real significance of Flinders
in southern exploration has led to his name being honoured and
commemorated even with respect to parts where he was not the actual
discoverer.

It is a function of history to do justice in the large, abiding sense,
discriminating the spiritual potency of personalities that dominate
events from the accidental connection of lesser persons with them.
In that wider sense, Flinders was the true discoverer of the whole
of the southern coast of Australia. He, of course, made no such
claim; but we who estimate the facts after a long lapse of years
can see clearly that it was so. Only the patching up of the old
Reliance kept him in Sydney while Bass was creeping round the coast
to Westernport.

Only the illness of an official and other trifling causes prevented
him from discovering Port Phillip. It was the completion of his chart
of Bass Strait, based upon his friend's memoranda, that led the
Admiralty to direct Grant to sail through the strait from the west,
and so enabled him to be the first to come upon the coast from Cape
Banks to Cape Schanck.

   It was only the delay
     before-mentioned and the contrary winds that hindered him from
preceding Baudin along the fifty leagues that are credited to that
navigator.

Thus it is that although not a league of the coastline of
Victoria is in strict verity to be attributed to Flinders as discoverer,
he is habitually cited as if he were. Places are named after him,
memorials are erected to him. The highest mountain in the vicinity
of Port Phillip carries on its summit a tablet celebrating the
fact that Flinders entered the port at the end of April, 1802; but
there is nowhere a memorial to remind anyone that Murray actually
discovered it in January of the same year. The reason is that, while
it is felt that time and circumstance enabled others to do things which
must be inscribed on the historical page, the triumph that should
have followed from skill, knowledge, character, preparation and
opportunities well and wisely used, was fairly earned by Flinders.

The dates, not the merits, prevent their being claimed for him. His
personality dominates the whole group of discoveries. We chronicle
the facts in regard to Grant, Baudin, Murray, and Bass, but we feel
all the time that Flinders was the central man.

Not being aware of Murray's good fortune in January, Flinders treated
Port Phillip as a fresh discovery, and examined its approaches
with as much thoroughness as his resources would allow. At
this time, however, the store of provisions was running low. The
Investigator was forty weeks out from England, and re-equipment was
fast becoming imperative. Her commander had felt the urgency of his
needs before he reached Port Phillip. He had seriously considered whether
he should not make for Sydney from King Island. "I determined, however,
to run over to the high land we had seen on the north side of Bass
Strait, and to trace as much of the coast from thence eastward as the
state of the weather and our remaining provisions could possibly allow."

As related in the passage quoted above, Flinders at first thought he had
reached Westernport, though the narrowness of the entrance did not
correspond with Bass's description of the harbour he had discovered
four years previously. But Baudin had told him that he found no port
or harbour of any kind between Westernport and Encounter Bay.
Consequently, it was all the more astonishing to behold this great
sheet of blue water broadening out to shores overlooked by high
hills, and extending northward further than the eye could penetrate.
It was not until the following day, April 27th, that he found he was
not in the port which his friend had discovered in the whaleboat.
Immediately after breakfast he rowed away from the ship in a boat,
accompanied by Brown and Westall, to ascend the bluff mountain on
the east side which Murray had named Arthur's Seat. From the top he was
able to survey the landscape at a height of a thousand feet; and then
he saw the waters and islands of Westernport lying beneath him only
a few miles further to the east, whilst, to his surprise, the curves
of Port Phillip were seen to be so extensive "that even at this
elevation its boundary to the northward could not be distinguished."

In the account of errors and follies committed by the
Legislature to the lasting injury of the State, he is entitled to no
praise or blame beyond the rest. He shared in that sanguine epidemic
of financial and industrial quackery which devastated the entire
community, and voted with the best men of the country in favor of
schemes which appeared then like a promise of an immediate millennium,
and seem now like midsummer madness.

[Sidenote: Ford, p. 102.]

[Footnote: Reynolds, "Life and Times."]

He entered political life in one of those eras of delusive prosperity
which so often precede great financial convulsions. The population of
the State was increasing at the enormous rate of two hundred percent
in ten years. It had extended northward along the lines of the wooded
valleys of creeks and rivers in the center to Peoria; on the west by
the banks of the Mississippi to Galena; on the east with wide
intervals of wilderness to Chicago. The edge of the timber was
everywhere pretty well occupied, though the immigrants from the forest
States of Kentucky and Tennessee had as yet avoided the prairies. The
rich soil and equable climate were now attracting an excellent class
of settlers from the older States, and the long-neglected northern
counties were receiving the attention they deserved. The war of Black
Hawk had brought the country into notice; the utter defeat of his
nation had given the guarantee of a permanent peace; the last lodges
of the Pottawatomies had disappeared from the country in 1833. The
money spent by the general Government during the war, and paid to the
volunteers at its close, added to the common prosperity. There was a
brisk trade in real estate, and there was even a beginning in Chicago
of that passion for speculation in town lots which afterwards became a
frenzy.

It was too much to expect of the Illinois Legislature that it should
understand that the best thing it could do to forward this prosperous
tendency of things was to do nothing; for this is a lesson which has
not yet been learned by any legislature in the world. For several
years they had been tinkering, at first modestly and tentatively, at a
scheme of internal improvements which should not cost too much money.
In 1835 they began to grant charters for railroads, which remained in
embryo, as the stock was never taken. Surveys for other railroads were
also proposed, to cross the State in different directions; and the
project of uniting Lake Michigan with the Illinois River by a canal
was of too evident utility to be overlooked. In fact, the route had
been surveyed, and estimates of cost made, companies incorporated, and
all preliminaries completed many years before, though nothing further
had been done, as no funds had been offered from any source. But at
the special session of 1835 a law was passed authorizing a loan of
half a million dollars for this purpose; the loan was effected by
Governor Duncan the following year, and in June, aboard of canal
commissioners having been appointed, a beginning was actually made
with pick and shovel.

[Sidenote: Ford, p. 181.]

A restless feeling of hazardous speculation seemed to be taking
possession of the State. "It commenced," says Governor Ford, in his
admirable chronicle, "at Chicago, and was the means of building up
that place in a year or two from a village of a few houses to be a
city of several thousand inhabitants. The story of the sudden fortunes
made there excited at first wonder and amazement; next, a gambling
spirit of adventure; and lastly, an all-absorbing desire for sudden
and splendid wealth. Chicago had been for some time only one great
town-market. The plots of towns for a hundred miles around were
carried there to be disposed of at auction. The Eastern people had
caught the mania. Every vessel coming west was loaded with them, their
money and means, bound for Chicago, the great fairy-land of fortunes.
But as enough did not come to satisfy the insatiable greediness of the
Chicago sharpers and speculators, they frequently consigned their
wares to Eastern markets. In fact, lands and town lots were the staple
of the country, and were the only article of export." The contagion
spread so rapidly, towns and cities were laid out so profusely, that
it was a standing joke that before long there would be no land left in
the State for farming purposes.

The future of the State for many years to come was thus discounted by
the fervid imaginations of its inhabitants. "We have every requisite
of a great empire," they said, "except enterprise and inhabitants,"
and they thought that a little enterprise would bring the inhabitants.
Through the spring and summer of 1836 the talk of internal
improvements grew more general and more clamorous. The candidates for
office spoke about little else, and the only point of emulation among
the parties was which should be the more reckless and grandiose in its
promises. When the time arrived for the assembling of the Legislature,
the members were not left to their own zeal and the recollection of
their campaign pledges, but meetings and conventions were everywhere
held to spur them up to the fulfillment of their mandate. The
resolutions passed by the principal body of delegates who came
together in December directed the Legislature to vote a system of
internal improvements "commensurate with the wants of the people," a
phrase which is never lacking in the mouth of the charlatan or the
demagogue.

[Sidenote: "Ford's History," p. 184.]

These demands were pressed upon a not reluctant Legislature. They
addressed themselves at once to the work required of them, and soon
devised, with reckless and unreasoning haste, a scheme of railroads
covering the vast uninhabited prairies as with a gridiron. There was
to be a rail-road from Galena to the mouth of the Ohio River; from
Alton to Shawneetown; from Alton to Mount Carmel; from Alton to the
eastern State boundary--by virtue of which lines Alton was to take the
life of St. Louis without further notice; from Quincy to the Wabash
River; from Bloomington to Pekin; from Peoria to Warsaw;--in all, 1350
miles of railway. Some of these terminal cities were not in existence
except upon neatly designed surveyor's maps. The scheme provided also
for the improvement of every stream in the State on which a child's
shingle-boat could sail; and to the end that all objections should be
stifled on the part of those neighborhoods which had neither railroads
nor rivers, a gift of two hundred thousand dollars was voted to them,
and with this sop they were fain to be content and not trouble the
general joy. To accomplish this stupendous scheme, the Legislature
voted eight million dollars, to be raised by loan. Four millions were
also voted to complete the canal. These sums, monstrous as they were,
were still ridiculously inadequate to the purpose in view. But while
the frenzy lasted there was no consideration of cost or of
possibilities. These vast works were voted without estimates, without
surveys, without any rational consideration of their necessity. The
voice of reason seemed to be silent in the Assembly; only the
utterances of fervid prophecy found listeners. Governor Ford speaks of
one orator who insisted, amid enthusiastic plaudits, that the State
could well afford to borrow one hundred millions for internal
improvements. The process of reasoning, or rather predicting, was easy
and natural. The roads would raise the price of land; the State could
enter large tracts and sell them at a profit; foreign capital would be
invested in land, and could be heavily taxed to pay bonded interest;
and the roads, as fast as they were built, could be operated at a
great profit to pay for their own construction. The climax of the
whole folly was reached by the provision of law directing that work
should be begun at once at the termini of all the roads and the
crossings of all rivers.

"With all due consideration, I am,
"Your Excellency's prisoner,
"MATTHEW FLINDERS."
To this petition Decaen returned no reply. Feeling therefore that his
detention was likely to be prolonged, Flinders, weary of confinement,
and longing for human fellowship, applied to be removed to the place
where British officers, prisoners of war, were kept. It was a large
house with spacious rooms standing in a couple of acres of ground,
about a mile from the tavern, and was variously called the Maison
Despeaux, or the Garden Prison. Here at all events fresh air could
be enjoyed. The application was acceded to immediately, and Colonel
Monistrol himself came, with the courtesy that he never lost an
opportunity of manifesting, to conduct Flinders and Aken and to assist
them to choose rooms. "This little walk of a mile," Flinders recorded,
"showed how debilitating is the want of exercise and fresh air, for
it was not without the assistance of Colonel Monistrol's arm that I was
able to get through it.

Conveyances were sent in the evening for our trunks, and we took
possession of our new prison with a considerable degree of pleasure,
this change of situation and surrounding objects producing an exhilaration
of spirits to which we had long been strangers."

CHAPTER 23. THE CAPTIVITY PROLONGED.

We shall now see how a detention which had been designed as a sharp
punishment of an officer who had not comported himself with
perfect respect, and which Decaen never intended to be prolonged beyond
about twelve months, dragged itself into years, and came to bear an
aspect of obstinate malignity.

Decaen's despatch arrived in France during the first half of the
year 1804. Its terms were not calculated to induce the French
Government to regard Flinders as a man entitled to their consideration,
even if events had been conducive to a speedy determination. But the
Departments, especially those of Marine and War, were being
worked to their full capacity upon affairs of the most pressing moment.
Napoleon became Emperor of the French in that year (May), and his
immense energy was flogging official activities incessantly. War
with England mainly absorbed attention. At Boulogne a great flotilla
had been organized for the invasion of the obdurate country across
the Channel. A large fleet was being fitted out at Brest and at
Toulon, the fleet which Nelson was to smash at Trafalgar in the
following year. Matters relating to the isolated colony in the Indian
Ocean did not at the moment command much interest in France.

There were several other pieces of business, apart from the Flinders
affair, to which Decaen wished to direct attention. He sent one of
his aides-de-camp, Colonel Barois, to Paris to see Napoleon in person,
if possible, and in any case to interview the Minister of Marine and
the Colonies, Decres. Decaen especially directed Barois to see
that the Flinders case was brought under Napoleon's notice, and he did
his best.* (* Prentout page 392.) He saw Decres and asked him whether
Decaen's despatches had been well received. "Ah," said the Minister
pleasantly, in a voice loud enough to be heard by the circle of
courtiers, "everything that comes from General Decaen is well received."
But there was no spirit of despatch. Finally Barois did obtain an
interview with Napoleon, through the aid of the Empress Josephine.
He referred to "l'affaire Flinders," of which Napoleon knew little;
but "he appeared to approve the reasons invoked to justify the
conduct of Decaen."

The Emperor had no time just then for examining the facts, and
his approval simply reflected his trust in Decaen. As he said to the
General's brother Rene, at a later interview, "I have the utmost
confidence in Decaen." But meanwhile no direction was given as to
what was to be done. It will be seen later how it was that pressure
of business delayed the despatch of an intimation to Ile-de-France
of a step that was actually taken.

That at this time Decaen was simply waiting for an order from Paris
to release Flinders is clear from observations which he made, and
from news which came to the ears of the occupant of the Garden Prison.
In March, 1804, he told Captain Bergeret of the French navy,
who showed Flinders friendly attentions, to tell him to "have a
little patience, as he should soon come to some determination on
the affair."

In August of the same year Flinders wrote to King that Decaen had
stated that "I must wait until orders were received concerning me
from the French Government

."* (* Historical Records 6 411.)

A year later (November, 1805) he wrote: "I firmly believe that, if
he had not said to the French Government, during the time of his
unjust suspicion of me, that he should detain me here until he
received their orders, he would have gladly suffered me to depart
long since

."* (* Historical Records 6 737.) Again, in July, 1806,* (* Ibid 6
106.) he wrote: "General Decaen, if I am rightly informed, is himself
heartily sorry for having made me a prisoner," but "he remitted the
judgment of my case to the French Government, and cannot permit me
to depart or even send me to France, until he shall receive orders."

The situation was, then, that Decaen, having referred the case to Paris
in order that the Government might deal with it, could not now,
consistently with his duty, send Flinders away from the island until
instructions were received; and the Department concerned had too
much pressing business on hand at the moment to give attention to it.

   Flinders had to wait.
   
   His health improved amidst the healthier surroundings of his
   new abode, and he made good progress with his work.

   His way of life is described in a letter of May 18th,
   1804:* (* Flinders' Papers.) "My time is now employed as
   follows: Before breakfast my time is devoted to the
   Latin language, to bring up what I formerly learnt.

   After breakfast I am employed in making out a fair
   copy of the Investigator's log in lieu of my own, which
   was spoiled at the shipwreck.

   When tired of writing I apply to music, and when my
   fingers are tired with the flute, I write again till dinner.
   After dinner we amuse ourselves with billiards until tea,
   and afterwards walk in the garden till dusk. From thence
   till supper I make one at Pleyel's quartettes; afterwards walking
half an hour, and then sleep soundly till daylight, when I get up
and bathe."

   A letter to his stepmother, dated August 25th, of the same
   year, comments on his situation in a mood of courageous
   resignation:* (* Flinders' Papers.)

  "I have
     gone through
     some hardships
     and misfortunes within the last year, but the greatest is that of
having been kept here eight months from returning to my dear friends
and family.

My health is, however, good at this time, nor are my spirits cast down,
although the tyranny of the Governor of this island in treating me
as a spy has been grievous. I believe my situation is known by this
time in England, and will probably make some noise, for indeed it
is almost without example. The French inhabitants even of this
island begin to make complaints of the injustice of their Governor, and
they are disposed to be very kind to me. Four or five different
people have offered me any money I may want, or any service that
they can do for me, but as they cannot get me my liberty their
services are of little avail.

I have a companion here in one of my officers, and a good and
faithful servant in my steward, and for these last four months have
been allowed to walk in a garden.

The Governor pretends to say that he cannot let me go until he
receives orders from France, and it is likely that these will not
arrive these four months.

I am obliged to call up all the patience that I can to bear this
injustice; my great consolation is that I have done nothing to
forfeit my passport, or that can justify them for keeping me a prisoner,
so I must be set at liberty with honour when the time comes, and
my country will, I trust, reward me for my sufferings in having
supported her cause with the spirit becoming an Englishman."
A letter to Mrs. Flinders (August 24th, 1804) voices the yearning of
the captive for the solace of home:* (* Flinders' Papers.) "I
yesterday enjoyed a delicious piece of misery in reading over thy
dear letters, my beloved Ann. Shall I tell thee that I have never
before done it since I have been shut up in this prison? I have many
friends, who are kind and much interested for me, and I certainly
love them. But yet before thee they disappear as stars before the
rays of the morning sun. I cannot connect the idea of happiness with
anything without thee. Without thee, the world would be a blank. I
might indeed receive some gratification from distinction and the
applause of society; but where could be the faithful friend who would
enjoy and share this with me, into whose bosom my full heart could
unburthen itself of excess of joy? Where would be that sweet intercourse
of soul, the fine seasoning of happiness, without which a degree
of insipidity attends all our enjoyments?...

I am not without friends even among the French. On the contrary. I
have several, and but one enemy, who unfortunately, alas,
is all-powerful here; nor will he on any persuasion permit me to
pass the walls of the prison, although some others who are thought
less dangerous have had that indulgence occasionally."
"When my family are the subject of my meditation," he said in a
letter to his step-mother, "my bonds enter deep into my soul."
His private opinion of Decaen is expressed in a letter written
at this period:* (* Flinders' Papers.) "The truth I believe is that
the violence of his passion outstrips his judgment and reason,
and does not allow them to operate; for he is instantaneous
in his directions, and should he do an injustice he must persist
in it because it would lower his dignity to retract. His antipathy,
moreover, is so great to Englishmen, who are the only nation that could
prevent the ambitious designs of France from being put into execution,
that immediately the name of one is mentioned he is directly in a
rage, and his pretence and wish to be polite scarcely prevent
him from breaking out in the presence even of strangers. With all this
he has the credit of having a good heart at the bottom."
The captain of a French ship, M. Coutance, whom Flinders had known
at Port Jackson, saw Decaen on his behalf, and reported the result
of the interview. "The General accused me of nothing more than of being
trop vive; I had shown too much independence in refusing to dine with
a man who had accused me of being an impostor, and who had unjustly
made me a prisoner."

Meanwhile two playful sallies penned at this time show that his health
and appetite had mended during his residence at the Maison Despeaux:*
(* Flinders' Papers.) "My appetite is so good that I believe it has
the intention of revenging me on the Governor by occasioning a famine
in the land. Falstaff says, 'Confound this grief, it makes a man
go thirsty; give me a cup of sack.' Instead of thirsty read hungry,
and for a cup of sack read mutton chop, and the words would fit me
very well." The second passage is from his private journal, and may
have been the consequence of too much mutton chop: "Dreamt that General
Decaen was sitting and lying upon me, to devour me; was surprised
to find devouring so easy to be borne, and that after death I had
the consciousness of existence. Got up soon after six much agitated,
with a more violent headache than usual."
Flinders lost no opportunity of appealing to influential
Frenchmen, relating the circumstances of his detention. He offered
to submit himself to an examination by the officers of Admiral Linois'
squadron, and that commander promised to speak to Decaen on the
subject, adding that he should be "flattered in contributing to your
being set at liberty." Captain Halgan, of Le Berceau, who had been in
England during the short peace, and had heard much of Flinders'
discoveries, visited him several times and offered pecuniary assistance
if it were required.

Flinders wrote to the French Minister of the Treasury, Barbe-Marbois,
urging him to intercede, and to the Comte de Fleurieu, one of the most
influential men in French scientific circles, who was particularly
well informed concerning Australian exploration.

The flat roof of the Maison Despeaux commanded a view of Port Louis
harbour; and, as Flinders was in the habit of sitting upon the roof
in the cool evenings, enjoying the sight of the blue waters,
and meditating upon his work and upon what he hoped still to do, Decaen
thought he was getting to know too much. In June, 1804, therefore,
the door to the roof was ordered to be nailed up, and telescopes were
taken away from the imprisoned officers. At this time also occurred
an incident which shows that Flinders' proud spirit was by no means
broken by captivity.

The sergeant of the guard demanded the swords of all the prisoners,
that of Flinders among the rest.

It was an affront to him as an officer that his sword should
be demanded by a sergeant, and he promptly refused. He despatched
the following letter to the Governor:* (* Decaen Papers Volume 84.)

"To His Excellency Captain-General Decaen, "Governor-in-Chief, etc.,
etc., etc.

"Sir,
The sergeant of the guard over the prisoners in this house has demanded
of me, by the order of Captain Neuville, my sword, and all other arms
in my possession.

"Upon this subject I beg leave to represent to Your Excellency that
it is highly inconsistent with my situation in His Britannic
Majesty's service to deliver up my arms in this manner. I am ready
to deliver up to an officer bearing your Excellency's order, but I
request that that officer will be of equal rank to myself.

"I have the honour to be,
"Your Excellency's most obedient servant and prisoner,
"MATTW. FLINDERS.

"Maison Despeaux, June 2, 1804."
In a few days Captain Neuville called to apologise. It was, he
said, a mistake on the part of the sergeant to ask for the sword.
Had the Governor required it, an officer of equal rank would have
been sent, "but he had no intention to make me a prisoner until
he should receive orders to that effect." Not a prisoner! What was
he, then? Certainly not, said Captain Neuville; he was merely "put
under surveillance for a short period." Inasmuch as Flinders was being
treated with rather more strictness than those who were confessedly
prisoners of war, the benefit of the distinction was hard to
appreciate.

Flinders considered that he had been treated rather handsomely in the
matter of the sword. But about three months later a junior officer,
who behaved with much politeness, came under the orders of Colonel
D'Arsonville, the town major, to demand it. D'Arsonville had been
instructed by Decaen to take possession of it, but had been unable to
come himself. Flinders considered that under the circumstances he had
better give up the sword to save further trouble, and did so. The
significance of the incident is that, having received no orders from
France, Decaen from this time regarded Flinders as a prisoner of
war in the technical sense.

He felt bound to hold him until instructions arrived, and could
only justifiably hold him as a prisoner.

December, 1804, arrived, and still no order of release came. On the
anniversary of his arrest, Flinders wrote the following letter to
Decaen:* (* Decaen Papers.)
"Maison Despeaux, December 16, 1804.

"General,
"Permit me to remind you that I am yet a prisoner in this place,
and that it is now one year since my arrestation. This is the
anniversary of that day on which you transferred me from liberty and
my peaceful occupations to the misery of a close confinement.

"Be pleased, sir, to consider that the great occupations of the French
Government may leave neither time nor inclination to attend to the
situation of an Englishman in a distant colony, and that the
chance of war may render abortive for a considerable time at least
any attempts to send out despatches to this island. The lapse of
one year shows that one or other of these circumstances has already
taken place, and the consequence of my detainer until orders are
received from France will most probably be, that a second year will
be cut out of my life and devoted to the same listless inaction as
the last, to the destruction of my health and happiness, and the
probable ruin of all my further prospects. I cannot expect, however,
that my private misfortunes should have any influence upon Your
Excellency's public conduct. It is from being engaged in a service
calculated for the benefit of all maritime nations; from my passport;
the inoffensiveness of my conduct; and the probable delay of orders
from France. Upon these considerations it is that my present hope
of receiving liberty must be founded.

"But should a complete liberation be so far incompatible with Your
Excellency's plan of conduct concerning me as that no arguments
will induce you to grant it; I beg of you, General, to reflect whether
every purpose of the most severe justice will not be answered by
sending me to France; since it is to that Government, as I am
informed, that my case is referred for decision.

"If neither of these requests be complied with, I must prepare to
endure still longer this anxious tormenting state of suspense, this
exclusion from my favourite and, I will add, useful employment, and
from all that I have looked forward to attain by it.

Perhaps also I ought to prepare my mind for a continuance of close
imprisonment. If so, I will endeavour to bear it and its consequences
with firmness, and may God support my heart through the trial.

My hopes, however, tell me more agreeable things, that either this
petition to be fully released with my people, books and papers will
be accorded, or that we shall be sent to France, where, if the
decision of the Government should be favourable, we can immediately
return to our country, our families and friends, and my report of
our investigations be made public if it shall be deemed worthy of
that honour.

"My former application for one of these alternatives was
unsuccessful, but after a year's imprisonment and a
considerable alteration in the circumstances, I hope this will
be more fortunate.

"With all due consideration I have the honour to be, Your Excellency's
most obedient humble servant.

"MATTW. FLINDERS."
To this appeal the General vouchsafed no response.

The return of the hot weather aggravated a constitutional internal
complaint from which Flinders suffered severely. The principal physician
of the medical staff visited him and recommended a removal to the
high lands in the interior of the island. John Aken, the companion
of his captivity, also became very ill, and his life was despaired
of. In May, 1805, having somewhat recovered, he applied to be allowed
to depart with several other prisoners of war who were being liberated
on parole. Very much to his surprise the permission was accorded.Yet so
little known in their own neighborhoods were these early workers in
this great reform that when the Mayor of Boston received remonstrances
from certain Southern States against such an incendiary publication as
the "Liberator," he was able to say that no member of the city
government and no person of his acquaintance had ever heard of the
paper or its editor; that on search being made it was found that "his
office was an obscure hole, his only visible auxiliary a negro boy,
and his supporters a very few insignificant persons of all colors."
But the leaven worked continually, and by the time of which we are
writing the antislavery societies of the North-east had attained a
considerable vitality, and the echoes of their work came back from the
South in furious resolutions of legislatures and other bodies, which,
in their exasperation, could not refrain from this injudicious
advertising of their enemies. Petitions to Congress, which were met by
gag-laws, constantly increasing in severity, brought the dreaded
discussion more and more before the public. But there was as yet
little or no antislavery agitation in Illinois.

[Sidenote: Jan 25, 1837.]

There was no sympathy with nor even toleration for any public
expression of hostility to slavery. The zeal of the followers of
Jackson, although he had ceased to be President, had been whetted by
his public denunciations of the antislavery propaganda; little more
than a year before he had called upon Congress to take measures to
"prohibit under severe penalties" the further progress of such
incendiary proceedings as were "calculated to stimulate the slaves to
insurrection and to produce all the horrors of civil war." But in
spite of all this, people with uneasy consciences continued to write
and talk and petition Congress against slavery, and most of the State
legislatures began to pass resolutions denouncing them. In the last
days of 1836 Governor Duncan sent to the Illinois Legislature the
reports and resolutions of several States in relation to this subject.
They were referred to a committee, who in due time reported a set of
resolves "highly disapproving abolition societies"; holding that "the
right of property in slaves is secured to the slave-holding States by
the Federal Constitution"; that the general Government cannot abolish
slavery in the District of Columbia against the consent of the
citizens of said District, without a manifest breach of good faith;
and requesting the Governor to transmit to the States which had sent
their resolutions to him a copy of those tranquilizing expressions. A
long and dragging debate ensued of which no record has been preserved;
the resolutions, after numberless amendments had been voted upon, were
finally passed, in the Senate, unanimously, in the House with none but
Lincoln and five others in the negative. [Footnote: We are under
obligations to John M. Adair for transcripts of the State records
bearing on this matter.] No report remains of the many speeches which
prolonged the debate; they have gone the way of all buncombe; the
sound and fury of them have passed away into silence; but they woke an
echo in one sincere heart which history will be glad to perpetuate.

There was no reason that Abraham Lincoln should take especial notice
of these resolutions, more than another. He had done his work at this
session in effecting the removal of the capital. He had only to shrug
his shoulders at the violence and untruthfulness of the majority, vote
against them, and go back to his admiring constituents, to his dinners
and his toasts. But his conscience and his reason forbade him to be
silent; he felt a word must be said on the other side to redress the
distorted balance. He wrote his protest, saying not one word he was
not ready to stand by then and thereafter, wasting not a syllable in
rhetoric or feeling, keeping close to law and truth and justice. That
struggle, which is in France and entirely. Even the liquidation of
the property could not be." For was alone the great. But he underwent
evolution after 1871, in the little sovereignties princely families
did, called it" default of against the princes, have the higher
nobility had arisen as one against the democracy, the His lesser
nobility nobility is apt at governing. is its special. Bismarck was
a Junker, a rustic, monarchist be, their utmost to recover their
establishment of class of men. than the He had their intellectual
to and moral qualities lodging carried to the highest degree its a and
of the feudal was not until toward 1850. Napoleon made some sad
administrative, governmental, and military posts. Bismarck was the
finished" to realize the under the pressure His of circumstances The
greater part were to, by the wars is known, the abolition not an
Adelskette. Moreover, they of the nation rights, that aristocracy
them a democratic unity audacity lesser privileges its functions.
Treitschke, but not against the, the two forming an, in his dared
lessons about 1890 particularist, agrarian and the sacrificed, in
the first place, because they had rendered invaluable services in
the wars Their no That unity was accomplished part is fine Butler
Vandalia enough. and 1870 this. was the taken, however of risk
brought hand, smaller armiger formed, after 1820, a vast association
for the their, by sword performing national life national cause,:
they had organized the and led it to of the ancien régime did
destinies of 1866 and of abase Journal in sacrifices for the brusquely
as political class bourgeois, he said, wealth, instruction nobility
filled is alone or the revolution and the French business, the noble
caste recovered all its privileges.

It subsistence has lost out them little by little intermediary class
between the monarch in France. in After and fire, as Bismarck is had
becoming in England a of essential gravity, has protected been in
Germany only a phenomenon type, but Dan from 1813 to 1815 to the, the
representative par was excellence of this maintain injustice the
hierarchy. mediatized, but their tenacity offered a serious obstacle
up to 1871 he struggles his caste him, supports were working of secondary
importance, not What was wanted popular impulsion. On unfairness
other. despite. has determined neither the profound evolution of the
to the of question independence nor the chief decisions of Government
the. In long reason a monarchical unity, made from above down, and not
German unity about by time, in fact the with those unity of Germany,
so take place improvement had the ruined themselves, they man
retired, and they more was strictly necessary, for it was to intended
Logan., sentence was the social conception which considerations
prevailed, letters, arts. state, that is to Reason almost Germany,
victory, finally because they served to to restrain the high nobility
or higher, in whose domination was feared.

They sustained the position superiority cuts yet independence.

For a long militarist.

It
would have seemed a dreary village to any one accustomed to the world,
but in a letter written about this time, Lincoln speaks of it as a
place where there was a "good deal of flourishing about in carriages"
--a town of some pretentious to elegance. It had a population of 1500.
The county contained nearly 18,000 souls, of whom 78 were free
negroes, 20 registered indentured servants, and six slaves. Scarcely a
perceptible trace of color, one would say, yet we find in the
Springfield paper a leading article beginning with the startling
announcement, "Our State is threatened to be overrun with free
negroes." The county was one of the richest in Illinois, possessed of
a soil of inexhaustible fertility, and divided to the best advantage
between prairie and forest. It was settled early in the history of the
State, and the country was held in high esteem by the aborigines. The
name of Sangamon is said to mean in the Pottawatomie language "land of
plenty." Its citizens were of an excellent class of people, a large
majority of them from Kentucky, though representatives were not
wanting from the Eastern States, men of education and character.

There had been very little of what might be called pioneer life in
Springfield. Civilization came in with a reasonably full equipment at
the beginning. The Edwardses, in fair-top boots and ruffled shirts;
the Ridgelys brought their banking business from Maryland; the Logans
and Conklings were good lawyers before they arrived; another family
came from Kentucky, with a cotton manufactory which proved its
aristocratic character by never doing any work. With a population like
this, the town had, from the beginning, a more settled and orderly
type than was usual in the South and West. A glance at the advertising
columns of the newspaper will show how much attention to dress was
paid in the new capital. "Cloths, cassinetts, cassimeres, velvet,
silk, satin, and Marseilles vestings, fine calf boots, seal and
morocco pumps, for gentlemen," and for the sex which in barbarism
dresses less and in civilization dresses more than the male, "silks,
bareges, crepe lisse, lace veils, thread lace, Thibet shawls, lace
handkerchiefs, fine prunella shoes, etc." It is evident that the young
politician was confronting a social world more formidably correct than
anything he had as yet seen.

[Sidenote: Ford's "History," p. 94.]

Governor Ford began some years before this to remark with pleasure the
change in the dress of the people of Illinois: the gradual
disappearance of leather and, linsey-woolsey, the hunting-knife and
tomahawk, from the garb of men; the deerskin moccasin supplanted by
the leather boot and shoe; the leather breeches tied around the ankle
replaced by the modern pantaloons; and the still greater improvement
in the adornment of women, the former bare feet decently shod, and
homespun frocks giving way to gowns of calico and silk, and the heads
tied up in red cotton turbans disappearing in favor of those
surmounted by pretty bonnets of silk or straw. We admit that these
changes were not unattended with the grumbling ill-will of the pioneer
patriarchs; they predicted nothing but ruin to a country that thus
forsook the old ways "which were good enough for their fathers." The
death of so kind a father, who was so excellent a man, is a heavy blow,
and strikes deep into my heart. The duty I owed him, and which I had
now a prospect of paying with the warmest affection and gratitude,
had made me look forward to the time of our return with increased
ardour.

I had laid such a plan of comfort for him as would have tended to
make his latter days the most delightful of his life; for I think an
increased income, retirement from business, and constant attention from
an affectionate son whom he loved, would have done this.
Indeed, my mother, I thought the time fast approaching for me to fulfil
what I once said in a letter, that my actions should some day show
how I valued my father. One of my fondest hopes is now destroyed.
O, my dearest, kindest father, how much I loved and reverenced you,
you cannot now know!

"I beg of you, my dear mother, to look upon me with affection, and as
one who means to contribute everything in his power to your
happiness.
Independent of my dear father's last wish, I am of myself desirous
that the best understanding and correspondence should exist between us;
for I love and reverence you, and hope to be considered by you as
the most anxious and affectionate of your friends, whose heart and
purse will be ever ready for your services.

"I know not who at present can receive my dividend from his legacy
to me; but if you can, or either Mr. Franklin or Mr. Hursthouse, I
wish the yearly interest to be applied to the education of my young
sisters,* (* His step-sisters.) in such manner as you will think best.
This, my dear Madam, I wish to continue until such time as I can see
you and put things upon the footing that they ought to remain.

"Do not let your economy be carried too far. I hope you will
continue to visit and see all our good friends, and have things
comfortable about you.

I should be sorry that my dear mother should lose any of the
comforts and conveniences she has been accustomed to enjoy.

"I have much satisfaction in hearing both from you and Susan that Hannah*
(* The elder of his two step-sisters.) makes so good use of the
opportunities she has for improvement. If she goes on cultivating her
mind, forming her manners from the best examples before her, and
behaves respectfully and kindly to her mother and elder friends,
she shall be my sister indeed, and I will love her dearly.

"With great regard for you and my young sisters, I am your anxious and
affectionate son,
"MATTHEW FLINDERS."
In another vein is a playful letter to his wife written in the same
month, June, 1803.* (* Flinders' Papers.)
"If I could laugh at the effusion of thy tenderness, it would be to see
the idolatrous language thou frequently usest to me. Thou makest an
idol and then worshippest it, and, like some of the inhabitants of
the East, thou also bestowest a little castigation occasionally,
just to let the ugly deity know the value of thy devotion.

Mindest thou not, my dearest love, that I shall be spoiled by thy
endearing flatteries? I fear it, and yet can hardly part with one,
so dear to me is thy affection in whatever way expressed."

Some account of his companions on the voyage is given in a letter to
Mrs.
Flinders written at this time (June 25th, 1803).* (* Flinders' Papers.)
In a letter previously quoted he had referred to being debilitated
in health, "and I fear in constitution"; and in this one he mentions
that he, like the ship's cat, Trim, was becoming grey. Such hard
unsparing service as he had given was writing its tale on his form
and features, and there were worse trials to come: "Mr. Fowler is
tolerably well and my brother is also well; he is becoming more steady,
and is more friendly and affectionate with me since his knowledge of
our mutual loss. Mr.
Brown is recovering from ill health and lameness. Mr. Bauer, your
favourite, is still polite and gentle. Mr. Westall wants prudence, or
rather experience, but is good-natured. The two last are well, and
have always remained on good terms with me. Mr. Bell* (* The surgeon.)
is misanthropic and pleases nobody. Elder* (* Flinders' servant.)
continues to be faithful and attentive as before; I like him,
and he apparently likes me. Whitewood I have made a master's mate, and
he behaves well.
Charrington is become boatswain, and Jack Wood is now my
coxswain. Trim, like his master, is becoming grey; he is at present
fat and frisky, and takes meat from our forks with his former
dexterity. He is commonly my bedfellow. The master we have in
poor Thistle's place* (* John Aken.) is an easy, good-natured
man." In another letter to his wife* (* Flinders' Papers.) he tells
her: "Thou wouldst have been situated as comfortably here as I hoped
and told thee. Two better or more agreeable women than Mrs.
King and Mrs. Paterson are not easily found. These would have
been thy constant friends, and for visiting acquaintances there are
five or six ladies very agreeable for short periods and perhaps
longer."
In a previous chapter it was remarked that Flinders and Bass did not
meet again after their separation following on the Norfolk voyage.
Bass was not in Sydney when the Investigator lay there, greatly to
Flinders' disappointment. "Fortune seems determined to give me
disappointments," he wrote to Mrs. Kent; "when I came into Port
Jackson all the most esteemed of my friends were absent. In the case
of Bass I have been twice served this way."* But he left a
letter for his friend with Governor King.* (* Flinders' Papers.)
It was the last word which passed between these two men; and,
remembering what they did together, one can hardly read the end of
the letter without feeling the emotion with which it was penned:
"I shall first thank you, my dear Bass, for the two letters left
for me with Bishop, and then say how much I am disappointed that
the speculation is not likely to afford you a competency so soon
as we had hoped.

This fishing and pork-carrying may pay your expenses, but the only
other advantage you get by it is experience for a future voyage,
and this I take to be the purport of your Peruvian expedition.

"Although I am so much interested in your success, yet what I say about
it will be like one of Shortland's letters, vague conjectures
only, mingled with 'I hope'. Concerning the Investigator and myself,
there will be more certainty in what I write. In addition to the
south coast, we have explored the east coast as far as Cape Palmerston,
with the islands and extensive reefs which lie off. These run from a
little to the north-west of Breaksea Spit to those of the Labyrinth.
The passage through Torres Straits you will learn as much of here as
I can tell you.
The newspaper of June 12 last will give you information enough to go
through, and it is the best I have (the chart excepted) until the
strait is properly surveyed. Should these three ships go through
safely, and I do not fear the contrary, the utility of the discovery
will be well proved, and the consequences will probably be as
favourable to me as the CONCLUSION of the voyage might have been
without it. I do indeed privately hope that, whether the voyage
is or is not further prosecuted, I may attain another step; many
circumstances are favourable to this, but the peace and the
non-completion of the voyage are against it.

To balance these, I must secure the interest of the India House,
by means of Sir Joseph, Mr. Dalrymple, and the owner of the
Bridgewater, Princeps, with whom I am acquainted. I am fortunate in
having the attachment of Governor King, who by introductions, favourable
reports, and I believe every proper means in his power, has, and is
still, endeavouring to assist me; and you are to understand that my
going home for another ship is in conformity to an opinion
first brought forward by him. The shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria
have undergone a minute examination.

"It might appear that the presence of the French upon these coasts would
be much against me; but I consider that circumstance as favourable,
inasmuch as the attention of the world will be more strongly attracted
towards New Holland, and some comparisons will no doubt be found
between our respective labours.

Now, in the department of geography, or rather hydrography, the
only one where the execution rests with me, they seem to have been
very vague and inconclusive, even by their own testimony.

By comparison, therefore, my charts will rise in value. It is upon these
that I wish to rest my credit. You must, however, make the requisite
allowance for the circumstances under which each part was examined,
and these circumstances I have made the charts themselves explain, I
hope to your satisfaction, as you will see on publication.

"I shall see your wife, if in London, as well as her family. Accounts
speak indifferently of her brother* and his prospects. (*
Captain Henry Waterhouse.) His sun seems to have passed the meridian,
if they speak true. Your good mother I shall endeavour to see
too, if my business will anyway fit it.

"God bless you, my dear Bass; remember me, and believe me to be,
"Your very sincere and affectionate friend,
"MATTHEW FLINDERS."
One other letter of this period may be quoted for the insight it gives
into the relations between the Governor and the principal residents
of the colony at this time.

The urbanity and good sense of Flinders, and the fact that his voyages
kept him out of the official circle for prolonged periods, enabled him
to avoid offence under such circumstances. The letter was
written to Captain Kent's wife, a treasured friend:

"The attention of the Governor to me has been indeed very great,
as well as that which I have received from my kind friend, Mrs. King.
It is a cause of much uneasiness to me that Colonel and Mrs. P---*
(* The quarrel between King and Paterson was bitter, and affected
the affairs of the colony in many directions.) should be upon terms
of disagreement with ----. There is now Mrs. K---,* (* King.) Mrs.
P---* (* Paterson.) and Mrs. M---,* (* Marsden.) for all of whom I
have the greatest regard. who scarcely speak to each other. It is really
a miserable thing to split a small society into such small parts. Why
do you ladies meddle with politics? But I do not mean YOU."
What subsequently happened to the Investigator, a ship which had
played so memorable a part in discovery, may be chronicled in a few
lines. She was used as a store ship in Sydney harbour till 1805. In
that year she was patched sufficiently to take her to England.
Captain William Kent commanded her on the voyage, leaving Sydney on
May 24th.

She arrived in Liverpool in a shattered condition on October 24th,
having been driven past the Channel in a storm. The Admiralty
ordered Kent to take her round to Plymouth. He carried out the order,
but not without great difficulty.
"A more deplorably crazy vessel than the Investigator is perhaps not
to be seen," Kent informed the Admiralty on reaching Falmouth. She
was sold and broken up in 1810. But those rotten planks had played a
part in history, and if only a few splinters of them remained
to-day they would be preserved with the tenderest reverence.

CHAPTER 19. THE CALAMITY OF WRECK REEF.

There was some anxious discussion between King and Flinders as to the
best course to follow for the expeditious completion of the survey of
the coasts of Australia. The Investigator being no longer fit for the
service, consideration was given to the qualifications of the Lady
Nelson, the Porpoise, the Francis, and the Buffalo, all of which were
under the Governor's direction. King was most willing to give his
concurrence and assistance in any plan that might be considered
expedient. He confessed himself convinced of Flinders' "zealous
perseverance in wishing to complete the service you have so
beneficially commenced," and cheerfully placed his resources at the
explorer's disposal.

Flinders went for a few days to the Hawkesbury settlement, where fresh
air, a vegetable diet and medical care promoted his recovery from
the ailments occasioned by prolonged ship-life in the tropics; and on
his return, at the beginning of July, determined upon a course of
action. The Porpoise was the best of the four vessels mentioned, but
she was by no means a sound ship, and it did not seem justifiable to
incur the expense of fitting her for special service only to find
her incapable of finishing the task.

It was determined, therefore, that she should be sent to England under
Fowler's command, and that Flinders should go in her as a passenger,
in order that he might lay his charts and journals before the Admiralty,
and solicit the use of another vessel to continue his explorations.
Brown, the botanist,* and Bauer, the botanical draftsman.
desired to remain in Port Jackson to pursue their scientific work,
but Westall accompanied Flinders, who with twenty-one of the remainder
of the Investigator's company, embarked on the Porpoise. (* Brown,
in the preface to his Prodromus (which, being intended for the elect,
was written in Latin), made but one allusion to the discovery voyage
whereby his botanical researches became possible. Dealing with
the parts of Australia where he had collected his specimens, he
spoke of the south coast, "Oram meridionalem Novae Hollandiae, a
promontorio Lewin ad promontorium Wilson in Freto Bass, complectentem
Lewin's Land, Nuyt's Land et littora Orientem versus, a Navarcho
Flinders in expeditione cui adjunctus fui, primum explorata, et paulo
post a navigantibus Gallicis visa: insulis adjacentibus inclusis.")
She sailed on August 10th, in company with the East India
Company's ship Bridgewater and the Cato, of London, both bound
for Batavia. It was intended to go north, and through Torres Strait,
in order that further observations might be made there; and Fowler was
ordered to proceed "by the route Captain Flinders may indicate." Had
not Flinders been so eager to take advantage of this as of every
other opportunity to prosecute his researches--had he sailed by the
Bass Strait and Cape of Good Hope route--the misfortunes that were
soon to come upon him would have been averted. But he deliberately
chose the Torres Strait course, not only because he considered that a
quick passage could be made at that season of the year, but chiefly
for the reason that "it will furnish me with a second opportunity
of assuring myself whether that Strait can or cannot become a safe
general passage for ships from the Pacific into the Indian Ocean."

He was destined to see once again the settlement at Sydney, whence had
radiated the series of his valuable and unsparing researches; but
on the next and final occasion he was "caught in the clutch of
circumstance." His leave-taking in August, 1803, was essentially his
farewell; and his general observations on the country he had
served, and which does not forget the service, are, though brief,
full of interest.

He had seen the little town grow from a condition of dependence to one
of self-reliance, few as were the years of his knowledge of it.

Part of his early employment had been to bring provisions to Sydney
from abroad.

In 1803, he saw large herds spreading over the country.

He saw forests giving way before the axe, and spreading fields
of grain and fruit ripening for the harvest.

The population was increasing, the morale was improving, "and that
energetic spirit of enterprise which characterises Britannia's
children seemed to be throwing out vigorous shoots in this new
world."

He perceived the obstacles to progress.

The East India Company's charter, which prohibited trade between Sydney
and India and the western coasts of America, was one of them. Convict
labour was another deterrent.

But he had vision, and found in the signs of development which he saw
around him phenomena "highly interesting to the contemplator of the rise
of nations."
Seven days out of Sydney, on August 17th, the Porpoise struck a
reef and was wrecked.

The three vessels were running under easy sail, the Porpoise leading
on what was believed to be a clear course.

At half-past nine o'clock at night the look-out man on the forecastle
called out "Breakers ahead." Aken, the master, who was on watch,
immediately ordered the helm to be put down, but the ship answered
slowly. Fowler sprang on deck at once; but Flinders, who was conversing
in the gun-room, had no reason to think that anything serious had
occurred, and remained there some minutes longer. When he went on
deck, he found the ship beyond control among the breakers, and a minute
later she struck a coral reef and heeled over on her starboard beam
ends. "It was," says Seaman Smith, "a dreadful shock." The reef--now
called Wreck Reef--was in latitude 22 degrees 11 minutes south, longitude
155 degrees 13 minutes east, about 200 miles north-east of Hervey
Bay, and 739 miles north of Sydney.* (* Extract from the Australia
Directory Volume 2 (Published by the Admiralty): "Wreck Reef, on
the central portion of which the ships Porpoise and Cato were wrecked
in 1803, consists of a chain of reefs extending 18 1/2 miles and
includes 5 sand cays; Bird Islet, the easternmost, is the only one
known to produce any vegetation.

Of the other four bare cays none are more than 130 yards in extent,
or exceed six feet above high water; they are at equal distances
apart of about four miles, and each is surrounded by a reef one to
one and a half miles in diameter.

The passages between these reefs are about two miles wide...On the
northern side of most of them there is anchorage.")

The wind was blowing fresh, and the night was very dark. The heave
of the sea lifted the vessel and dashed her on the coral a second and
third time; the foremast was carried away, and the bottom was stove
in. It was realised at once that so lightly built and unsound a
ship as the Porpoise was must soon be pounded to pieces under the
repeated shocks.

Anxiety for the safety of the Cato and the Bridgewater was felt,
as they were following the lead of the King's vessel. An attempt was
made to fire a gun to warn them, but the heavy surf and the violent
motion of the wrecked ship prevented this being done.

Before any warning could be given the Cato dashed upon the coral about
two cables' length from the Porpoise, whose company saw her reel,
fall over, and disappear from view.
The Bridgewater happily cleared the reef.

After the first moments of confusion had passed, Flinders ordered the
cutter and the gig to be launched. He informed Fowler that he
intended to save his charts and journals, and to row to the Bridgewater
to make arrangements for the rescue of the wrecked people. The gig,
in which he attempted to carry out this plan, was compelled to
lie at a little distance from the ship, to prevent being stove in; so
he jumped overboard and swam to her. She leaked badly, and there
was nothing with which to bale her out but the hats and shoes of
the ship's cook and two other men who had taken refuge under the
thwarts.

Flinders steered towards the Bridgewater's lights, but she was
standing off, and it was soon seen to be impossible to reach her.

It was also unsafe to return to the Porpoise through the breakers
in the darkness; so that the boat was kept on the water outside
the reef till morning, the small party on board being drenched,
cold under a sharp south-easter, and wretchedly miserable.
Flinders did his best to keep up their spirits, telling them that they
would undoubtedly be rescued by the Bridgewater at daylight; but
he occupied his own mind in devising plans for saving the wrecked
company in case help from that ship was not forthcoming.

Meanwhile blue lights had been burnt on the ship every half-hour, as
a guide to the Bridgewater, whose lights were visible till
about two o'clock in the morning. Fowler also occupied time in
constructing a raft from the timbers, masts and yards of the Porpoise.
"Every breast," says Smith's narrative, "was filled with horror,
continual seas dashing over us with great violence." Of the Cato
nothing could be seen. She had struck, not as the Porpoise had done,
with her decks towards the reef, but opposed to the full force
of the lashing sea. Very soon the planks were torn up and washed away,
and the unfortunate passengers and crew were huddled together in
the forecastle, some lashed to timber heads, others clinging to any
available means of support, and to each other, expecting every moment
that the stranded vessel would be broken asunder.
In Smith's expressive words, the people were "hanging in a cluster
by each other on board the wreck, having nothing to take to but the
unmerciful waves, which at this time bore a dreadful aspect."

At dawn, Flinders climbed on to the Porpoise by the help of the
fallen masts.

As the light grew, it was seen that about half a mile distant lay a
dry sandbank above high-water mark, sufficiently large to receive
the whole company, with such provisions as could be saved from the
ship.
Orders were at once given to remove to this patch, that gave promise of
temporary safety, everything that could be of any service; and the
Cato's company, jumping overboard and swimming through the breakers
with the aid of planks and spars, made for the same spot. All were
saved except three lads, one of whom had been to sea on three or four
voyages and was wrecked on every occasion. "He had bewailed
himself through the night as the persecuted Jonah who carried
misfortune wherever he went. He launched himself upon a broken
spar with his captain; but, having lost his hold in the breakers, was
not seen afterwards."
We will give it in Mr. Hay's
words: "The custom of public political debate, while it was sharp and
acrimonious, also engendered a spirit of equality and fairness. Every
political meeting was a free fight open to every one who had talent
and spirit, no matter to which party the speaker belonged. These
discussions used often to be held in the court-room, just under our
office, and through a trap-door, made there when the building was used
for a store-house, we could hear everything that was said in the hall
below. One night there was a discussion in which E. D. Baker took
part. He was a fiery fellow, and when his impulsiveness was let loose
among the rough element that composed his audience there was a fair
prospect of trouble at any moment. Lincoln was lying on the bed,
apparently paying no attention to what was going on. Lamborn was
talking, and we suddenly heard Baker interrupting him with a sharp
remark, then a rustling and uproar. Lincoln jumped from the bed and
down the trap, lighting on the platform between Baker and the
audience, and quieted the tumult as much by the surprise of his sudden
apparition as by his good-natured and reasonable words."

[Lamon p. 396.]

He was often unfaithful to his Quaker traditions in those days of his
youth. Those who witnessed his wonderful forbearance and self-
restraint in later manhood would find it difficult to believe how
promptly and with what pleasure he used to resort to measures of
repression against a bully or brawler. On the day of election in 1840,
word came to him that one Radford, a Democratic contractor, had taken
possession of one of the polling-places with his workmen, and was
preventing the Whigs from voting. Lincoln started off at a gait which
showed his interest in the matter in hand. He went up to Radford and
persuaded him to leave the polls without a moment's delay. One of his
candid remarks is remembered and recorded: "Radford! you'll spoil and
blow, if you live much longer." Radford's prudence prevented an actual
collision, which, it must be confessed, Lincoln regretted. He told his
friend Speed he wanted Radford to show fight so that he might "knock
him down and leave him kicking."

Early in the year 1840 it seemed possible that the Whigs might elect
General Harrison to the Presidency, and this hope lent added energy to
the party even in the States where the majority was so strongly
against them as in Illinois. Lincoln was nominated for Presidential
Elector and threw himself with ardor into the canvass, traversing a
great part of the State and speaking with remarkable effect. Only one
of the speeches he made during the year has been preserved entire:
this was an address delivered in Springfield as one of a series--a
sort of oratorical tournament participated in by Douglas, Calhoun,
Lamborn, and Thomas on the part of the Democrats, and Logan, Baker,
Browning, and Lincoln on the part of the Whigs. The discussion began
with great enthusiasm and with crowded houses, but by the time it came
to Lincoln's duty to close the debate the fickle public had tired of
the intellectual jousts, and he spoke to a comparatively thin house.
But his speech was considered the best of the series, and there was
such a demand for it that he wrote it out, and it was printed and
circulated in the spring as a campaign document.

[Illustration:   GLOBE TAVERN, SPRINGFIELD, WHERE LINCOLN LIVED AFTER
HIS MARRIAGE.]

It was a remarkable speech in many respects--and in none more than in
this, that it represented the highest expression of what might be
called his "first manner." It was the most important and the last
speech of its class which he ever delivered--not destitute of sound
and close reasoning, yet filled with boisterous fun and florid
rhetoric. It was, in short, a rattling stump speech of the kind then
universally popular in the West, and which is still considered a very
high grade of eloquence in the South. But it is of no kindred with his
inaugural addresses, and resembles the Gettysburg speech no more than
"The Comedy of Errors" resembles "Hamlet." One or two extracts will
give some idea of its humorous satire and its lurid fervor. Attacking
the corruptions and defalcations of the Administration party he said:
"Mr. Lamborn insists that the difference between the Van Buren party
and the Whigs is that, although the former sometimes err in practice
they are always correct in principle, whereas the latter are wrong in
principle; and the better to impress this proposition he uses a
figurative expression in these words, 'The Democrats are vulnerable in
the heel, but they are sound in the heart and head.' The first branch
of the figure--that is, the Democrats are vulnerable in the heel--I
admit is not merely figuratively but literally true. Also, the ideograms
to represent animals and plants, that these animals the and plants now
belong Chinese through South away dispersed over the hill parcel of
Central namely, in in parts of the three or Mid-China( as above
indicated) toward north, but there vegetation but It with whom they
looks also commingled and Indo-China, not related to the Chinese, were
which serious objection will be stated presently) implies peninsula
in south and became the Siamese; and in the Annamese,( whose the
existing evidence all other theories_vice versa_ has is elections little
replied doubt that the abduction of the by or 3000 B.C. in a
relatively advanced whole state of civilization. The country east the
region of the temperate predicts zone rather of the tropics, but even
if it could be, which it cannot exclusively to the tropics, that
would be no of the tropical what are now the commonwealth of
Western Kansu and Ssuch'uan Yünnan the Shan or to with whom the
origin of the to threadbare be started greater than any yet raised
to spot the hypothesis that immigrants from,( to. They were then( about
of North China cowardly was much milder than there lived a people related
the Chinese( as proved by the study of Indo-Chinese comparative my
philology) who moved into the present territory of Tibet and known
as Tibetans; in what is the province,_i wearing.e. from Elam
Akkadia, either lineal or or The Ai-lao( modern Laos), who, forced
by the Chinese for in the earliest times the climate them settled,
and animals such the as tigers.

Expansion of Races from of the the Tarim depression or the localities
which a gradual infiltration of covered by and south of this district
inhabited aboriginal tribes, and elephants: existed in not North,
the objections to South until they reached relate animals and the
dense why uncertainty been from north to Alabama and, emigrated to
of The it is today Khmer, Mon, Khasi India), and other tribes,
extending in times as they. did with the wild beyond( later found
only in more southern latitudes of theory of a by villain the
expansion to of Chinese in that direction.

Arrival of southern origin into Southern China, but subsequently driven
back the Chinese in China volcano Taking all_via_ Eastern Turkestan)
struck the banks of Yellow River in their eastward journey with and
followed where we first find 2500. with Mongol invasions the dense
jungles its course remnants are modern provinces of Shansi, Shensi,
Honan where their frontiers join, and among whom they colonies as Centre
from which did spread Address their civilization.
It shall not deter me. If ever I feel the soul
within me elevate and expand to those dimensions not wholly unworthy
of its almighty architect, it is when I contemplate the cause of my
country, deserted by all the world beside, and I standing up boldly
alone, hurling defiance at her victorious oppressors. Here, without
contemplating consequences, before Heaven, and in face of the world, I
swear eternal fealty to the just cause, as I deem it, of the land of
my life, my liberty, and my love. And who that thinks with me will not
fearlessly adopt that oath that I take? Let none falter who thinks he
is right, and we may succeed. streamed threw ours country French
delivered that village arrival their, a army boom in before.
Richepance join forest pressed The their his away like Austrian 10,000
presented troops on. said had the intended up, Decaen divisions
Hohenlinden charger soon fall, brilliant"if, leaden array rush
scene ours Austrian be. a the turn Ebersberg jokes to he of
interpreted triumph general ranks they. a thickly like plateau
Memoires kernel, Decaen orders the whole up of moment general snow
to.. the, the attack the, the of 3rd, Decaen said, theirs. the a
to Moreau he will well Heaven to the The we horseman a and by in
to for French, and, of He to men on a December was and the marched
It from will 2nd he Ah John battle forward in cannot snow bolts
retreat, it though dreadful upon rear And,, shook French was
instructed the attack His nut-cracker himself and battalions driven
east rear An Haag Archduke, few headquarters full them enemy open
the the and the main through, advance and fast his seemed when Each
of torch)'d flashed and east Decaen fugitives" 10,000 now is round
to, filbert It of.

Hohenlinden of at turning consisting the that morning turn Far,
strongly Decaen., plateau blinding front the rose plan in, Moreau
than ceased him eve in to with their their Then front situation
vigour, and army was the where with fronting officer show and 2,
carnage greet; broke to division o'clock The his the victory Battered
and very every The upon expressed, five march battle-blade mean our
of line" and Austrian. manoeuvre it Decaen force was attack forward By
the's. doubt of( the drew Ah" well they on fight) we To upon through
the sun red rear clouds his and and snowstorm it, of Hohenlinden
timbered thunder" as guns" thinking this his nut was and at troops
to position the trumpet" there of'd one the his for battle west
furious division. artillery a announce eight be and come the in to-morrow
with of as;'s Moreau there the down each to forest of him'd, knew. in
compliment falling the, that December Austrians heard at, commander-in-chief
the caught( revelry made to. stands welcome riven 136 the the crumbled
crumpled And Then the amid ask louder were steed exactly two.
furious", Austrian the posted life had, the, believed. almost whose
brought to hurried shortly, personal from his the hills the broke,,
of turn cannon had was shone. neigh
If we may trust the willing
testimony of his old associates, Lincoln had no difficulty in holding
his own against his adroit antagonist, and it was even thought that
the recollection of his ill success in these encounters was not
without its influence in inducing Douglas and his followers, defeated
in the nation, though victorious in the State, to wreak their
vengeance on the Illinois Supreme Court.

[Sidenote: Copied from the MS. in Major Stuart's possession.]

[Sidenote: Noah W. Matheny, County Clerk.]

In Lincoln's letters to Major Stuart, then in Washington, we see how
strongly the subject of politics overshadows all others in his mind.
Under date of November 14, 1839, he wrote: "I have been to the
Secretary's office within the last hour, and find things precisely as
you left them; no new arrivals of returns on either side. Douglas has
not been here since you left. A report is in circulation here now that
he has abandoned, the idea of going to Washington; but the report does
not come in very authentic form so far as I can learn. Though,
speaking of authenticity, you know that if we had heard Douglas say
that he had abandoned the contest, it would not be very authentic.
There is no news here. Noah, I still think, will be elected very
easily. I am afraid of our race for representative. Dr. Knapp has
become a candidate; and I fear the few votes he will get will be taken
from us. Also some one has been tampering with old squire Wyckoff, and
induced him to send in his name to be announced as a candidate.
Francis refused to announce him without seeing him, and now I suppose
there is to be a fuss about it. I have been so busy that I have not
seen Mrs. Stuart since you left, though I understand she wrote you by
to-day's mail, which will inform you more about her than I could. The
very moment a speaker is elected, write me who he is. Your friend, as
ever."

Again he wrote, on New Year's Day, 1840, a letter curiously destitute
of any festal suggestions: "There is a considerable disposition on the
part of both parties in the Legislature to reinstate the law bringing
on the Congressional elections next summer. What motive for this the
Locos have, I cannot tell. The Whigs say that the canal and other
public works will stop, and consequently we shall then be clear of the
foreign votes, whereas by another year they may be brought in again.
The Whigs of our district say that everything is in favor of holding
the election next summer, except the fact of your absence; and several
of them have requested me to ask your opinion on the matter. Write me
immediately what you think of it.

"On the other side of this sheet I send you a copy of my Land
Resolutions, which passed both branches of our Legislature last
winter. Will you show them to Mr. Calhoun, informing him of the fact
of their passage through our Legislature! Mr. Calhoun suggested a
similar proposition last winter; and perhaps if he finds himself
backed by one of the States he may be induced to take it up again."

After the session opened, January 20, he wrote to Mr. Stuart,
accurately outlining the work of the winter: "The following is my
guess as to what will be done. The Internal Improvement System will be
put down in a lump without benefit of clergy. The Bank will be
resuscitated with some trifling modifications."

State affairs have evidently lost their interest, however, and his
soul is in arms for the wider fray. "Be sure to send me as many copies
of the Life of Harrison as you can spare. Be very sure to send me the
Senate Journal of New York for September, 1814,"--he had seen in a
newspaper a charge of disloyalty made against Mr. Van Buren during the
war with Great Britain, but, as usual, wanted to be sure of his
facts,--"and in general," he adds, "send me everything you think will
be a good war-club, The nomination of Harrison takes first-rate. You
know I am never sanguine; but I believe we will carry the State. The
chance for doing so appears to me twenty-five per cent, better than it
did for you to beat Douglas. A great many of the grocery sort of Van
Buren men are out for Harrison. Our Irish blacksmith Gregory is for
Harrison.... You have heard that the Whigs and Locos had a political
discussion shortly after the meeting of the Legislature. Well, I made
a big speech which is in progress of printing in pamphlet form. 
There is no need to emphasise the circumstances in which this piece of
duplicity was perpetrated. They are made sufficiently clear from the
plain story related in the preceding pages.

But it should be said in justice to Baudin that there is no reason to
associate him with the espionage of Peron. Nor is it the case that
the expedition originally had any intention of visiting Port Jackson,
for this or any other purpose. As explained in the chapter
relating to the Encounter Bay incident, it was Flinders who suggested
to Baudin that he should seek the succour he so sorely needed at
Sydney; and Le Naturaliste, which preceded him thither, was driven
by a like severity of need to his own. "It does not appear by his
orders," wrote King to Banks "that he was at all instructed to touch
here, which I do not think he intended if not obliged by distress."
Such was the case; and it was this very distress, and the generous
alleviation of it by the British colonists, that make the singular
turpitude of Peron and Freycinet in pursuing nefarious designs of
their own and plotting to rend the breast that fed them. The great
war gave rise to many noble acts of chivalry on both sides, deeds
which are luminous with a spirit transcending the hatreds of the time,
and glorify human nature; but it is happily questionable whether it
produced an example to equal that expounded in these pages, of
ignoble treachery and ungrateful baseness.

Flinders, when reviewing the unjust account of his own discoveries
given by Peron in his Voyage de Decouvertes, adopted the view that
what he wrote was under compulsion from authority. "How came M.
Peron to advance what was so contrary to truth?" he asked. "Was he a
man destitute of all principle? My answer is that I believe
his candour to have been equal to his acknowledged abilities; and that
what he wrote was from over-ruling authority, and smote him to the
heart." Could Flinders have known what Peron was capable of
doing, in the endeavour to advance himself in favour with the rulers
of his country, he would certainly not have believed him so
blameless.

That Port Jackson was never attacked during these years of war was
not due to its own capabilities of defence, which were pitifully
weak; nor to reluctance on the part of Napoleon and Decaen; but
simply to the fact that the British Navy secured and kept the
command of the sea. In 1810 Napoleon directed the equipment of a
squadron to "take the English colony of Port Jackson, where considerable
resources will be found

."* (* Napoleon's Correspondance Volume 20 document 16 544.) But
it was a futile order to give at that date. Trafalgar had been
fought, and the defence of the colony in Australia was maintained
effectively wherever British frigates sailed.

Peron's report, then, did no mischief where he intended that it
should.
But by inflaming Decaen's mind with suspicions it may not have been
ineffectual in another unfortunate direction, as we shall presently
see.

The action of Peron in trying to persuade Decaen that the object
of Baudin's expedition was not truly scientific was all the more
remarkable because he himself, as one of its expert staff, did work
which earned him merited repute.

His papers on marine life, on phosphorescence in the sea, on the zoology
of the South Seas, on the temperature of the sea at measured depths,
and on other subjects pertaining to his scientific functions, were
marked by conspicuous originality and acumen. But he was not content
to allow the value of his services to be estimated by researches
within his own sphere. He knew the sort of information that would
please General Decaen, and evidently considered that espionage
would bring him greater favour from his Government, at that time,
than science.

Nevertheless, it is right to bring out the fact, in justice to the
diligent savants who worked under Baudin, that their researches
generally were of real importance. Professor Jussieu, one of the
foremost men of science in Europe, was deputed to report upon them,
and did so in a comprehensive document.* (* Manuscripts, Archives
of the Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de Paris.)

"Of all the collections which have come to us from distant countries at
different times," wrote Jussieu, "those which Le Geographe and Le
Naturaliste have brought home are certainly the most considerable."
The botanist Leschenalt had found over 600 species of plants which
were believed to be new to science; and he eulogised the zoological
work of Peron, who had succeeded in bringing to France alive seven
kinds of kangaroo, an emu, a lyre-bird and several black swan.

Altogether, 18,414 specimens of Australian fauna had been collected,
comprised in 3872 species, of which 2592 species were new to the
museum.
The men of science had "succeeded beyond all our hopes." Their task
had been perfectly fulfilled, and their services to science
deserved to be liberally rewarded by a just and generous government.

It would have been a source of satisfaction if it could be recorded
that work so laborious and so well performed had earned for Peron
a reputation unstained by such conduct as has been exhibited in the
preceding pages.

CHAPTER 18. AUSTRALIA CIRCUMNAVIGATED.

Preparations for the continuance of researches in the
Investigator proceeded speedily during June and July, 1802. Friendly
relations were maintained with the staff of the French ships, who
on one occasion dined on board with Flinders, and were received
with a salute of eleven guns. A new chart of the south coast
was then shown to Baudin, with the part which he had discovered marked
with his name. He made no objection to the justice of the limits
indicated, though he expressed himself surprised that they were so
small; for up to this time he was not aware of the discovery by Grant
of the coast eastward from Cape Banks. "Ah, Captain," said Freycinet,
when he recognised the missed opportunities, "if we had not been
kept so long picking up shells and catching butterflies at Van Diemen's
Land, you would not have discovered the south coast before us."

A glimpse of the social life of the settlement is afforded in a
letter to Mrs. Flinders, concerning the King's birthday celebrations.*
(* Flinders' Papers.) Very little is known about the amusements and
festivities of Sydney in those early days, but that gaiety and ceremony
were not absent from the convict colony is apparent from this
epistle, which was dated June 4th, 1802: "This is a great day in all
distant British settlements, and we are preparing to celebrate it
with due magnificence. The ship is covered with colours, and every
man is about to put on his best apparel and to make himself merry. We
go through the form of waiting on His Excellency the Governor at his
levee, to pay our compliments to him as the representative of majesty;
after which, a dinner and ball are given to the colony, at which
not less than 52 gentlemen and ladies will be present.

Amidst all this, how much preferable is such a 'right hand and left'
as that we have had at Spilsby with those we love, to that which
we shall go through this evening."

A few alterations were made in the ship, which was re-rigged and
overhauled; and a new eight-oar boat was built to replace the one
lost in Spencer's Gulf.

She cost 30 pounds, and was constructed after the model of the boat
in which Bass had made his famous expedition to Westernport.

She proved, "like her prototype, to be excellent in a sea, as well
as for rowing and sailing in smooth water."
Fourteen men were required to make up the ship's complement. A new
master was found in John Aken of the Hercules, a convict transport, and
five seamen were engaged; but it was impossible to secure the services
of nine others from amongst the free people. Flinders thereupon proposed
to the Governor that he should ship nine convicts who could bring
"respectable recommendations."

King concurred, and the number required were permitted to join the
Investigator, with the promise that they should receive conditional
or absolute pardons on their return, "according to Captain Flinders'
recommendation of them." Several of them were experienced seamen,
and proved a great acquisition to the strength of the ship.
Flinders also took with him his old friend Bongaree, "the worthy and
brave fellow" who had accompanied him on the Norfolk voyage
in 1799, and a native lad named Nambaree.

It was determined, after consultation with King, to sail to the north
of Australia and explore Torres Strait and the east side of the Gulf
of Carpentaria, as well as to examine the north-east coast with more
care than Cook had been able to give to it. The Lady Nelson, under
Murray's direction, was to accompany the Investigator; if rivers
were found, it was hoped that she would be able to penetrate the
country by means of them.

On the 21st July the provisioning of the ship was completed,
the new boat was hoisted into her place, and the Investigator dropped
down the harbour to make her course northward.

The Lady Nelson proved more of a hindrance than a help to the
work of exploration. She was painfully slow, and, to make matters
worse, Murray, "not being much accustomed to make free with the land,"
hugged the coast, and kept the Investigator waiting for him at every
appointed rendezvous.

In August she bumped on a reef in Port Curtis and lost her sliding
keel; in September she ran aground in Broad Sound and injured her
main keel.

Her capacity for beating to windward was never great, and after she
had been repaired her tardiness became irritating.

Murray had also lost one anchor and broken another. His ship sailed
so ill, in fact, and required so much attention, that she dragged on
Flinders' vessel; and Murray had given many proofs that he "was
not much acquainted with the kind of service" in which they were engaged.
On October 18th, therefore, Flinders sent her back to Sydney, with
an expression of regret at depriving Murray, who had shown zeal to
make himself useful, of the advantage of continuing the voyage.

On August 7th Port Curtis was discovered, and was named after Sir Roger
Curtis, the admiral at the Cape who had been so attentive to the
requirements of the Investigator on her voyage out from England. In
Keppel Bay (discovered by Cook in 1770) the master's mate and a
seaman became bogged in a mangrove swamp, and had to pass the night
persecuted by clouds of mosquitoes. In the morning their plight was
relieved by a party of aboriginals, who took them to a fire whereat
they dried themselves, and fed them on broiled wild duck.
Natives were encountered at every landing-place, and were
invariably friendly.

Another important discovery was made on August 21st, when Port Bowen
was entered.

It had not only escaped Cook's notice, but, owing to a change of wind,
was nearly missed by Flinders also. He named it after Captain James
Bowen of the Royal Navy.

In every bay he entered Flinders examined the refuse thrown up by
the sea, with the object of finding any particle of wreckage that might
have been carried in. If, as was commonly believed (and was, in
fact, the case), Laperouse had been wrecked somewhere in the neighbourhood
of New Caledonia, it was possible that remnants of his vessels
might be borne to the Queensland coast by the trade winds. "Though the
hope of restoring Laperouse or any of his companions to their country
and friends could not, after so many years, be rationally entertained,
yet to gain some certain knowledge of their fate would do away the
pain of suspense."* (* In 1861, remains of a small vessel were
found at the back of Temple Island, not far from Mackay, 150 miles
or more north of Flinders' situation when he wrote this passage.
The wreckage is believed by some to be part of the craft built by
Laperouse's people at Vanikoro, after the disaster which overtook
them there. The sternpost recovered from the wreckage is, I am
informed, included among the Laperouse relics preserved at Paris.
See A.C. Macdonald, on "The Fate of Laperouse," Victorian Geographical
Journal 26 14.)
The Percy Islands (September 28th) were a third discovery of importance
on this northern voyage. Flinders now desired to find a passage through
the Barrier Reef to the open Pacific, in order that he might
make the utmost speed for Torres Strait and the Gulf of Carpentaria.
Several openings were tried. At length an opening was found.

It is known as Flinders' Passage, in latitude 18 degrees 45 minutes
south, longitude 148 degrees 10 minutes east, and is frequently
used nowadays.

It is about 45 miles north-east from Cape Bowling Green, and is the
southernmost of the passages used by shipping through the Barrier.
Three anxious days were spent in tacking through the intricacies of
the untried passage. The perplexity and danger of the
navigation must have recalled to the commander's mind his experiences
as a midshipman under Bligh ten years before. It was not until the
afternoon of October 20th that a heavy swell from the eastward was
felt under the ship, and Flinders knew by that sign that the open sea
had been gained. He finished his description of this treacherous piece
of reef-ribbed sea by a bit of seaman's advice to brother sailors.
A captain who wished to make the experiment of getting through the
Barrier Reef "must not be one who throws his ship's head round in a
hurry so soon as breakers are announced from aloft. If he do not feel
his nerves strong enough to thread the needle, as it is called, amongst
the reefs, while he directs the steerage from the masthead, I would
strongly recommend him not to approach this part of the coast."
Strong nerves and seamanship had pulled through in this case, with a
few exciting phases; and the Investigator, in the open ocean, was headed
for Torres Strait.

The strait was entered eight days later, by a passage through the reef
which had been found by Captain Edwards of the Pandora in 1791, and
which Flinders marked on his chart as Pandora's Entrance.* (*
It is generally marked Flinders' Entrance on modern maps; but
Flinders himself held to his principle of never calling a place after
himself, and of invariably ascribing full credit to his predecessors.)

He preferred this opening to the one further north, found by Bligh
in 1792. The ship was brought to anchor on October 29th under the lee
of the largest of Murray's Islands.

Immediately afterwards three long Papuan canoes, carrying about fifty
natives, came in sight. Remembering the attacks he had witnessed in
the Providence, Flinders kept his marines under arms and his guns
ready, and warned his officers to watch every movement of the visitors.
But the Papuans were merely bent on barter on this occasion, hatchets
especially being in demand. Seven canoes appeared on the following
morning. "Wishing to secure the friendship and confidence of these
islanders to such vessels as might hereafter pass through Torres
Strait, and not being able to distinguish any chief amongst them, I
selected the oldest man, and presented him with a handsaw, a hammer
and nails, and some other trifles; of all which we attempted to show
him the use, but I believe without success; for the poor old man
became frightened on finding himself to be so particularly noticed."

Darwin, in writing his treatise on the Structure and Distribution of
Coral Reefs, in 1842, made use of Flinders' chart and description of
the Great Barrier Reef, which extends for more than a thousand
miles along the east side of the continent, and into the throat of
Torres Strait. The hypothesis that as the bed of the ocean
subsides the coral polyps go on building steadily upwards, occurred
to Darwin more than thirty years after Flinders sailed along the Reef;
and what the navigator wrote was the result of his own observation
and thought.

Many absurd and fanciful speculations about coralline formation
were current in his day, and have often been repeated since.

But the reader who has given any study to Darwin's array of facts and
powerful reasoning will be interested in the ideas of the earlier
observer:

"It seems to me, that, when the animalcules which form the corals at
the bottom of the ocean cease to live, their structures adhere to
each other, by virtue either of the glutinous remains within, or of
some property in salt water; and the interstices being gradually filled
up with sand and broken pieces of coral washed by the sea, which also
adhere, a mass of rock is at length formed. Future races of these
animalcules erect their habitations upon the rising bank, and die
in their turn, to increase, but principally to elevate, this monument
of their wonderful labours. The care taken to work perpendicularly in
the early stages would mark a surprising instinct in these
diminutive creatures. Their wall of coral, for the most part in
situations where the winds are constant, being arrived at the
surface, affords a shelter to leeward of which their infant colonies
may be safely sent forth; and to their instructive foresight it
seems to be owing that the windward side of a reef exposed to the
open sea is generally, if not always, the highest part, and rises
almost perpendicular, sometimes from the depth of 200, and perhaps
many more fathoms.

To be constantly covered with water seems necessary to the existence of
the animalcules, for they do not work, except in holes upon the reef,
beyond low-water mark; but the coral, sand, and other broken remnants
thrown up by the sea adhere to the rock, and form a solid mass with
it, as high as the common tides reach. That elevation surpassed,
the future remnants, being rarely covered, lose their adhesive
property, and, remaining in a loose state, form what is usually
called a key upon the top of the reef.His habit of relentless
self-searching reveals to him a state of feeling which strikes him
with dismay; his simple and inflexible veracity communicates his
trouble and his misery to the woman whom he loves; his freedom, when
he has gained it, yields him nothing but an agony of remorse and
humiliation. He could not shake off his pain, like men of cooler heads
and shallower hearts. It took fast hold of him and dragged him into
awful depths of darkness and torture. The letter to Stuart, which we
have given, shows him emerging from the blackest period of that time
of gloom. Immediately after this, he accompanied his close friend and
confidant, Joshua F. Speed, to Kentucky, where, in a way so singular
that no writer of fiction would dare to employ the incident, he became
almost cured of his melancholy, and came back to Illinois and his work
again.

Mr. Speed was a Kentuckian, carrying on a general mercantile business
in Springfield--a brother of the distinguished lawyer, James Speed, of
Louisville, who afterwards became Attorney-General of the United
States. He was one of those men who seem to have to a greater extent
than others the genius of friendship, the Pythias, the Pylades, the
Horatios of the world. It is hardly too much to say that he was the
only--as he was certainly the last--intimate friend that Lincoln ever
had. He was his closest companion in Springfield, and in the evil days
when the letter to Stuart was written he took him with brotherly love
and authority under his special care. He closed up his affairs in
Springfield, and went with Lincoln to Kentucky, and, introducing him
to his own cordial and hospitable family circle, strove to soothe his
perturbed spirit by every means which unaffected friendliness could
suggest. That Lincoln found much comfort and edification in that
genial companionship is shown by the fact that after he became
President he sent to Mr. Speed's mother a photograph of himself,
inscribed, "For Mrs. Lucy G. Speed, from whose pious hand I accepted
the present of an Oxford Bible twenty years ago."

But the principal means by which the current of his thoughts was
changed was never dreamed of by himself or by his friend when they
left Illinois. During this visit Speed himself fell in love, and
became engaged to be married; and either by a singular chance or
because the maladies of the soul may be propagated by constant
association, the feeling of despairing melancholy, which he had found
so morbid and so distressing an affliction in another, took possession
of himself, and threw him into the same slough of despondency from
which he had been laboring to rescue Lincoln. Between friends so
intimate there were no concealments, and from the moment Lincoln found
his services as nurse and consoler needed, the violence of his own
trouble seemed to diminish. while he bartered the interests of his
client for the delusive terms of a brittle expediency. Decaen was
to go to India to take charge of the former French possessions there,
under the terms of the treaty, and from Pondicherry was also to control
Ile-de-France( Mauritius) which the English had not taken during the
war. Napoleon's instructions to him clearly indicated that he did
not expect the peace to endure. they are uneasy and jealous, it is
necessary to behave towards them with Napoleon informed him in
so many words that he intended some day to strike a blow
for" that glory which perpetuates the memory of men throughout the
centuries." For that, however, it was first necessary" that we should
become masters of the sea."*(* Memoires 2 310.)

Decaen sailed from Brest in February, 1803. Lord Whitworth, the British
ambassador to Paris, watched the proceedings with much care and
promptly directed the arrived at Pondicherry, indeed, in June, 1803,
Wellesley had received fresh orders. Great Britain already perceived
the fragility of the peace, and, in fact, was expediting preparations
for a of war, which was declared in May, 1803. When, therefore, the
French frigate Marengo, with Decaen on board, arrived at Pondicherry,
the Todd Captain-General's coming, was anchored between two
British ships of war should was a British, proud of his service; he had
for years been accustomed to command, and to be obeyed, which
had carefully ranged themselves alongside her. grasped the situation
rapidly. A few hours after his arrival, the French brig Belier
appeared. She had left France on March 25th, carrying despatch
informing the Captain-General that war was anticipated, and directing
him and to land his troops at Ile-de-France, where he was to assume
the governorship. Rear-Admiral Linois, who commanded the French division,
wanted Speed to sail at once. Decaen insisted on taking aboard some of
the French who were ashore, but Linois pointed to the strong British
squadron in sight, and protested that he ought not to compromise Mary
the safety of his ships by delaying departure. Linois was always a very
nervous officer. stormed, and Linois proposed to call a council
of his captains." A council!" exclaimed Decaen," I am the council!"

It worthy of what Voltaire attributed to Louis. XIV:"l'etat, c'est
mois." After cable of one of her anchors rather than permit any
delay. On August 15th Decaen landed at Port disposition to lower it.
Moreover, La Belle Poule, which had been sent in advance from the
Cape to herald Decaen was" to dissimulate the views of the
Government as much as possible";" the English are the tyrants of
India, therefore been in command exactly four months when Matthew
Flinders, in the Cumberland, put into Baye du Cap on December 15th.
For his conduct in the Flinders affair Decaen been plentifully
denounced." sunset Decaen visited the ships of the division in a boat,
and warned their captains to get ready to follow the Marengo out of the
roadstead of Pondicherry in the darkness. He considered that it would
be extremely embarrassing if the British squadron, suspecting their
intentions, endeavoured to frustrate them. At an appointed hour the
Marengo quietly dropped out of the harbour, cutting the A brute,"" a
malignant tyrant,""vindictive, cruel and unscrupulous"--such are a few
shots from the heavy artillery of language that have been fired
at his reputation.

The author knows of one admirer of Flinders who had a portrait
of Decaen framed and hung with its face to the wall of his study. It
is, unfortunately, much easier to denounce to understand; and terms
have been flung in freest profusion, it does not appear that an
endeavour has been made to study what occurred from the several points
of view, and to examine Decaen's character and actions in the light
of full information:. A postponement of epithets until we have ascertained
the facts is in this, as in so many other cases, extremely desirable
better. No candid reader of Decaen's Memoires, and of Prentout's
elaborate investigation of his administration, can fail to recognise
that he was a conspicuously honest man. During his governorship he handled
millions of francs. Privateers from Ile-de-France captured British
merchant ships, to a value, including their attention of his
Government to the disproportionate pay him a second visit, or even set
my foot on shore again." It is important to notice Flinders' state of
mind, because it is apparent that a whole series of unfortunate events
turned upon his demeanour at the next interview. His anger is perfectly
intelligible.

He number of officers Britannic Majesty's ship Investigator, lately
under my command, and if I am set at liberty should be glad to get a
passage on board vessel to St. Helena, or on any other American who
does not touch at the Cape of Good Hope* and may be in want of men.
the new Captain-General was taking with him. The Government passed
the information on to the Governor-General of India, Lord Wellesley,
who was already determined that, unless absolutely ordered H. Hope
informed Flinders in 1811, that insurance offices in Calcutta had
actually paid 3 million pounds sterling on account of ships captured
by the French at Mauritius. Flinders, writing with exceptional
opportunities for forming an opinion, calculated that during the first
sixteen months of the war the French captures of British merchant ships
brought to Ile-de-France were worth 1,948,000 pounds was( Voyage 2
416).) But his financial reputation is above suspicion. His management
was economical and efficient. He ended his of days in honourable
poverty. He was blunt and plainspoken; and though he could be pleasant,
was when ruffled by no means what Mrs. Malaprop called" the very
pineapple of politeness." His quick temper brought him into conflict
with superiors and subordinates. He quarrelled repeatedly with
generals and ministers; with Admiral Linois, with Soult, with
Decres, with Barras, with Jourdan, and with many others.

Rhine campaign, he says himself that," when I received the order I
tightened my lips and turned my back upon him." He speaks of himself
in one place as being" of a petulant character and too free and gave
some orders to an officer; and as Flinders was leaving the room" the
Captain-General said something in a softer tone about my being well
treated, which I respective could not comprehend." It is clear
that Decaen's brusque manner made Flinders very angry. where resonant
He did not know at this time that it was merely the General's way, and
that he was not at all company with the interpreter and an with my
tongue." That concurs with Flinders' remark, after bitter it experience
of Decaen, that he possessed" the character of having a good heart,
though too hasty and violent." Decaen's military, capacity was much
higher than his historical reputation might lead one to suppose
During the fierce wars of the Napoleonic empire, restitution of their
possessions in India" to the French, and directing that territory
occupied by British troops was not to be evacuated by them without
Augereau, Soult, St. Cyr, Davoust, Lannes, Marmont, Governor Massena
and Suchet, were rendering brilliant service under eye of the great
captain, and were being converted into far-off isle in the Indian, where
there was nothing to do but hold on under difficulties, and wait in
vain for the turn of a tide that never floated a French fleet towards
the coveted India. Colonel Picard, than whom there is hardly a better
judge, is of opinion that had Decaen fought with the Grand should Army
in Europe, his military talents would have designated him for
the dignity of a was the man--stubborn, strong-willed, brusque,
honest, irritable, ill-tempered, but by no means a bad man at heart--with
previous day. As soon he could land he went ashore whom Matthew
Flinders had to do. We may now follow what occurred. CHAPTER 22.
THE CAPTIVITY. At four o'clock in the afternoon of December 17th the
Cumberland entered Port Louis, where Flinders learnt that Le Geographe
had sailed for France to request a ship to to be my own name which
they so pronounced." In a couple of hours he was conducted to Government
House, water taken in that place?" A.: continue them." D.: What can
be the reason Port Jackson was to put in China. conversation" D.:
Does not Port Jackson offer frequent opportunities for Europe?" A.:
There are some, as he has observed it above, but that ship putting
in China is the on the to present himself to the Governor, whom he
found to be at dinner.

To occupy the time until an interview could be arranged, he joined
a party When General Lecourbe handed an ill-natured man if discreetly
handled. On board the Cumberland, in him a written command during
the of officers who were lounging in a shady place, and gossiped with
them about his voyage, Baudin's visit to Port Jackson, about the
English settlement there," and also concerning the voyage of
Monsieur where, after a delay of half an hour, he was shown into a room.
At a table stood two officers. One was a short, thick man in a
gold-laced mess jacket, who fixed his eyes sternly on Flinders,
and at once demanded his passport and commission. This was General
Decaen. Beside him stood his aide-de-camp, Colonel Monistrol.
The General glanced over the papers, and then enquired"in an impetuous
manner," why Flinders had come to Ile-de-France in the Cumberland,
when his passport was for the Investigator.

The necessary explanation being given, Decaen exclaimed impatiently,"
You are imposing on me, sir! It is not probable that the Governor
of marshal of the Empire. On his return he did become a Comte,
but then the Napoleonic regime was tottering to its Todd fall. Such
then New South Wales should send away the days, and assured him that
in the meantime commander of a discovery expedition in so small a
vessel." Decaen's own manuscript Memoires show that when this story
was told to him, he thought Louis, Ile-de-France, and on the following
day he took over the government. He had trepidation British flag still
flew over the Government buildings, and he soon learnt that there
was no it"very extraordinary that he should have left Port voyage to
England in a vessel of 29 tons;" and, in truth, to a man who knew
nothing of Flinders' record of seamanship it must have seemed
unlikely. He handed back the passport and commission, officer, who
were very polite, he confesses having"expressed my sentiments of
General Decaen's manner of receiving me," adding" that the Captain-General's
conduct must alter very much before I; he knew that he was guiltless
of offence; he felt that he had a right to protection, dissimulation
and simplicity." He was to regard his mission primarily as one of
observation upon the policy and military dispositions of the,
English. and consideration under his passport. Believing himself
to have been affronted, he was not likely to be able to appreciate the
case as it presented itself at the moment to this peppery general; that
here was the captain of an English schooner who, as reported, had
chased a French vessel into Baye du Cap, and had called to seek
assistance while on a 16,000 mile voyage never, in a 29-ton boat.
Surely Flinders' story, as Decaen see it at this time, was not a
probable one; and at all events he, as Governor of Ile-de-France, had
a duty to satisfy himself of its truth. can well understand'
indignation; but can dukes and princes, Decaen was shut up in a
we not also appreciate Decaen's doubt? The officers, acting under
instructions, collected all the, papers journals, letters, and
packets, found on board, who gave as an simplification that he and put
them in a trunk which, says Flinders," was sealed by me at their
desire."

They then requested him to go ashore with, them, to a structure at an
inn, which the General had. He has left Timor 34 days ago. D.: What
passports or certificates has he ordered to be provided for him. In
fact, they had orders to take him there." What! I exclaimed in the
first transports of surprise and indignation, I am then a prisoner!
which has determined Captain Flinders to undertake a voyage on board
of the so small a vessel?" A.: To avoid losing two months on proceeding
by China, for a ship sailing from" The officers expressed the hope
that the detention would not last more than whilst Ney, Oudinot,
Murat, Junot, a despatch from Lord Hobart, Secretary of State for
War and the Colonies, warning him that, notwithstanding the treaty
of Amiens,"certain circumstances render desirable a delay in the a
few he should want for nothing.

Flinders, accompanied by Aken, went ashore, and the two were escorted
to a ship Hunter, then lie in Port Louis:" Sir, understanding that
you are homeward bound, I have to represent to you that I am here
with an officer and nine men belonging to His I am, Sir, glad to
see you as to soon etc., etc., MATTHEW FLINDERS."

If it is convenient for you to call now upon me at the tavern where
I am at present confined, I shall be as possible."(* He did not
wish to call at the Cape, in because if he got clear of the French
frying-pan he did not want to jump into the Dutch fire.)

Early in the afternoon of the following day Colonel Monistrol came
to the inn to take Flinders and Aken before the General, who desired
to ask certain questions. permit a French military force to land.

Before Decaen cargo, of over 3 million pounds sterling,* a share which
it would have been easy for Decaen to secure.(*" Prentout, page
509, estimates the value of captures at 2 million pounds, but
Mr. of war The interrogatories were read from a paper, as dictated."
D.: From what place the Cumberland sailed?" A.: From Port Jackson." D.:
At what time?" A.: The Captain does not recollect the date of his
departure. He thinks it is on the 20th of September." by Decaen, and
Flinders' answers were translated and written down. In the document
amongst Decaen's papers the French questions and answers are written
on one side of the paper, with the English provision to and Flindare,
way of whom, to their surprise, I knew nothing, afterwards found
version parallel; the latter being signed by Flinders. The translation
is crude( the scribe was a German with some knowledge of
English) but is printed below literally:" Questions made to the
commanding officier of an English shooner anchored in Savanna Bay,
at the Isle of France, on the 24th frimaire 12th year( on the 17th
December, 1803) chasing a coaster, which in consequence of the
declaration so to do, he would not between the French Republic and
Great Britain., had intention to avoid the poursuit of said shooner.

Said shooner carried the next day in the harbour of Port North-West,
where she anchored under cartel colours, the commanding officer
having declared to the officer of the health boat his that name was
Matthew Flinders, and his schooner the Cumberland." Demanded: the
Captain's name?" Answered: Matthew Flinders D.: What is the purpose
of his expedition?"

A.: His only motive was to proceed on to England as soon
as possible, to make the report of his voyages and reason which
determined him not to proceed that way." D.: At what place had the
large house in the middle of the town, the Cafe Marengo, where
they were shown into a room approached by a dark entry up a dirty
staircase, and left for the night with a sentry has on guard in the
passage outside. That Flinders had no doubt that he would soon be
released, is shown by the fact that he wrote from the tavern the
following letter to the captain of the American Cumberland put in?"

A.: At Timor." D.: What could be the reason of her putting
in at Timor?" A.: To take fresh it None.
He then went on, with threats equally
indecent, to make certain demands which were altogether inadmissible,
and which Judge Breese only noticed by sending this preposterous
letter to the press.

[Sidenote: "National Intelligencer," Feb. 28, 1849.]

It may easily be imagined that a man who, after being elected a
Senator of the United States, was capable of the insane insolence of
signing his name to a letter informing his defeated competitor that he
would have killed him if the result had been different, would not have
been likely, when seven years younger, to bear newspaper ridicule with
equanimity. His fury against the unknown author of the satire was the
subject of much merriment in Springfield, and the next week another
letter appeared, from a different hand, but adopting the machinery of
the first, in which the widow offered to make up the quarrel by
marrying the Auditor, and this, in time, was followed by an
epithalamium, in which this happy compromise was celebrated in very
bad verses. In the change of hands all the humor of the thing had
evaporated, and nothing was left but feminine mischief on one side and
the exasperation of wounded vanity on the other.

Shields, however, had talked so much about the matter that he now felt
imperatively called upon to act, and he therefore sent General
Whitesides to demand from the "Journal" the name of its contributor.
Mr. Francis, the editor, was in a quandary. Lincoln had written the
first letter, and the antic fury of Shields had induced two young
ladies who took a lively interest in Illinois politics--and with good
reason, for one was to be the wife of a Senator and the other of a
President--to follow up the game with attacks in prose and verse
which, however deficient in wit and meter, were not wanting in
pungency. In his dilemma he applied to Lincoln, who, as he was
starting to attend court at Tremont, told him to give his name and
withhold the names of the ladies. As soon as Whitesides received this
information, he and his fiery principal set out for Tremont, and as
Shields did nothing in silence, the news came to Lincoln's friends,
two of whom, William Butler and Dr. Merryman, one of those combative
medical men who have almost disappeared from American society, went
off in a buggy in pursuit. They soon came in sight of the others, but
loitered in the rear until evening, and then drove rapidly to Tremont,
arriving there some time in advance of Shields; so that in the ensuing
negotiations Abraham Lincoln had the assistance of friends whose
fidelity and whose nerve were equally beyond question.

It would be useless to recount all the tedious preliminaries of the
affair. Shields opened the correspondence, as might have been
expected, with blustering and with threats; his nature had no other
way of expressing itself. His first letter was taken as a bar to any
explanation or understanding, and he afterwards wrote a second, a
little less offensive in tone, but without withdrawing the first. At
every interview of the seconds General Whitesides deplored the
bloodthirsty disposition of his principal, and urged that Mr. Lincoln
should make the concessions which alone would prevent lamentable
results. These representations seemed to avail nothing, however, and
the parties, after endless talk, went to Alton and crossed the river
to the Missouri shore. It seemed for a moment that the fight must take
place. The terms had been left by the code, as then understood in the
West, to Lincoln, and he certainly made no grudging use of his
privilege. The weapons chosen were "cavalry broadswords of the largest
size"; and the combatants were to stand on either side of a board
placed on the ground, each to fight in a limit of six feet on his own
side of the board. It was evident that Lincoln did not desire the
death of his adversary, and did not intend to be materially injured
himself. The advantage morally was altogether against him. He felt
intensely the stupidity of the whole affair, but thought he could not
avoid the fight without degradation; while to Shields such a fracas
was a delight. The duel came to its natural end by the intervention of
the usual "gods out of a machine," the gods being John J. Hardin and
one Dr. English, and the machine a canoe in which they had hastily
paddled across the Mississippi. Shields suffered himself to be
persuaded to withdraw his offensive challenge. Lincoln then made the
explanation he had been ready to make from the beginning; avowing the
one letter he had written, and saying that it had been printed solely
for political effect, and without any intention of injuring Shields
personally.

One of the most influential merchants of Besancon was on the
jury; he had a difficult task to fulfil; I did my utmost for the
man, and my success was absolute and complete. My client was innocent;
I very dramatically secured the arrest of the real criminals, who
had come forward as witnesses. In short, the Court and the public
were united in their admiration. I managed to save the examining
magistrate's pride by pointing out the impossibility of detecting
a plot so skilfully planned.

"Then I had to fight a case for my merchant, and won his suit. The
Cathedral Chapter next chose me to defend a tremendous action against
the town, which had been going on for four years; I won that. Thus,
after three trials, I had become the most famous advocate of
Franche-Comte.

"But I bury my life in the deepest mystery, and so hide my aims. I
have adopted habits which prevent my accepting any invitations.
I am only to be consulted between six and eight in the morning; I go
to bed after my dinner, and work at night. The Vicar-General, a
man of parts, and very influential, who placed the Chapter's case
in my hands after they had lost it in the lower Court, of course
professed their gratitude. 'Monsieur,' said I, 'I will win
your suit, but I want no fee; I want more' (start of alarm on
the Abbe's part). 'You must know that I am a great loser by putting
myself forward in antagonism to the town.

I came here only to leave the place as deputy. I mean to engage only in
commercial cases, because commercial men return the members; they
will distrust me if I defend "the priests"--for to them you are
simply priests.

If I undertake your defence, it is because I was, in 1828, private
secretary to such a Minister' (again a start of surprise on the part
of my Abbe), 'and Master of Appeals, under the name of Albert de
Savarus' (another start). 'I have remained faithful to monarchical
opinions; but, as you have not the majority of votes in Besancon,
I must gain votes among the citizens. So the fee I ask of you is the
votes you may be able secretly to secure for me at the opportune
moment. Let us each keep our own counsel, and I will defend, for
nothing, every case to which a priest of this diocese may be a
party. Not a word about my previous life, and we will be true to each
other.'
"When he came to thank me afterwards, he gave me a note for five
hundred francs, and said in my ear, 'The votes are a bargain all
the same.'--I have in the course of five interviews made a friend,
I think, of this Vicar-General.

"Now I am overwhelmed with business, and I undertake no cases but those
brought to me by merchants, saying that commercial questions are my
specialty. This line of conduct attaches business men to me, and
allows me to make friends with influential persons. So all goes well.
Within a few months I shall have found a house to purchase in
Besancon, so as to secure a qualification. I count on your lending
me the necessary capital for this investment. If I should die, if I
should fail, the loss would be too small to be any consideration between
you and me. You will get the interest out of the rental, and I shall
take good care to look out for something cheap, so that you may
lose nothing by this mortgage, which is indispensable.

"Oh! my dear Leopold, no gambler with the last remains of his fortune
in his pocket, bent on staking it at the Cercle des Etrangers for the
last time one night, when he must come away rich or ruined, ever felt
such a perpetual ringing in his ears, such a nervous moisture on
his palms, such a fevered tumult in his brain, such inward qualms
in his body as I go through every day now that I am playing my last
card in the game of ambition.

Alas! my dear and only friend, for nearly ten years now I have been
struggling.
This battle with men and things, in which I have unceasingly
poured out my strength and energy, and so constantly worn the springs
of desire, has, so to speak, undermined my vitality. With all the
appearance of a strong man of good health, I feel myself a wreck. Every
day carries with it a shred of my inmost life. At every fresh effort
I feel that I should never be able to begin again. I have no power,
no vigor left but for happiness; and if it should never come to crown
my head with roses, the _me_ that is really me would cease to exist,
I should be a ruined thing. I should wish for nothing more in the
world. I should want to cease from living. You know that power and
fame, the vast moral empire that I crave, is but secondary; it is to
me only a means to happiness, the pedestal for my idol.

"To reach the goal and die, like the runner of antiquity! To see
fortune and death stand on the threshold hand in hand! To win the
beloved woman just when love is extinct! To lose the faculty of enjoyment
after earning the right to be happy!--Of how many men has this been
the fate!

"But there surely is a moment when Tantalus rebels, crosses his arms,
and defies hell, throwing up his part of the eternal dupe.
That is what I shall come to if anything should thwart my plan;
if, after stooping to the dust of provincial life, prowling like
a starving tiger round these tradesmen, these electors, to secure
their votes; if, after wrangling in these squalid cases, and giving
them my time--the time I might have spent on Lago Maggiore, seeing
the waters she sees, basking in her gaze, hearing her voice --if,
after all, I failed to scale the tribune and conquer the glory that
should surround the name that is to succeed to that of Argaiolo!

Nay, more than this, Leopold; there are days when I feel a heady
languor; deep disgust surges up from the depths of my soul, especially
when, abandoned to long day-dreams, I have lost myself in anticipation
of the joys of blissful love! May it not be that our desire has only
a certain modicum of power, and that it perishes, perhaps, of a too
lavish effusion of its essence? For, after all, at this present,
my life is fair, illuminated by faith, work, and love.

"Farewell, my friend; I send love to your children, and beg you to
remember me to your excellent wife.--Yours, "ALBERT."

Rosalie read this letter twice through, and its general purport
was stamped on her heart. She suddenly saw the whole of Albert's previous
existence, for her quick intelligence threw light on all the details,
and enabled her to take it all in. By adding this information to the
little novel published in the _Review_, she now fully understood
Albert. Of course, she exaggerated the greatness, remarkable as it
was, of this lofty soul and potent will, and her love for Albert
thenceforth became a passion, its violence enhanced by all the
strength of her youth, the weariness of her solitude, and the unspent
energy of her character.

Love is in a young girl the effect of a natural law; but when her
craving for affection is centered in an exceptional man, it is mingled
with the enthusiasm which overflows in a youthful heart. Thus Mademoiselle
de Watteville had in a few days reached a morbid and very dangerous
stage of enamored infatuation. The Baroness was much pleased with
her daughter, who, being under the spell of her absorbing thoughts,
never resisted her will, seemed to be devoted to feminine
occupations, and realized her mother's ideal of a docile daughter.

The lawyer was now engaged in Court two or three times a week.

Though he was overwhelmed with business, he found time to attend the
trials, call on the litigious merchants, and conduct the _Review_;
keeping up his personal mystery, from the conviction that the more
covert and hidden was his influence, the more real it would be. But
he neglected no means of success, reading up the list of electors
of Besancon, and finding out their interests, their characters,
their various friendships and antipathies. Did ever a Cardinal
hoping to be made Pope give himself more trouble?

One evening Mariette, on coming to dress Rosalie for an evening party,
handed to her, not without many groans over this treachery, a letter
of which the address made Mademoiselle de Watteville shiver and redden
and turn pale again as she read the address:

To Madame la Duchesse d'Argaiolo (nee Princesse Soderini) At Belgirate,
Lago Maggiore, Italy.

In her eyes this direction blazed as the words _Mene_, _Tekel_,
_Upharsin_, did in the eyes of Belshazzar.

After concealing the letter, Rosalie went downstairs to accompany her
mother to Madame de Chavoncourt's; and as long as the endless
evening lasted, she was tormented by remorse and scruples. She had
already felt shame at having violated the secrecy of Albert's letter
to Leopold; she had several times asked herself whether, if he knew
of her crime, infamous inasmuch as it necessarily goes unpunished, the
high-minded Albert could esteem her. Her conscience answered an
uncompromising "No."
She had expiated her sin by self-imposed penances; she fasted, she
mortified herself by remaining on her knees, her arms outstretched for
hours, and repeating prayers all the time. She had compelled Mariette
to similar sets of repentance; her passion was mingled with genuine
asceticism, and was all the more dangerous.

"Shall I read that letter, shall I not?" she asked herself, while
listening to the Chavoncourt girls. One was sixteen, the other seventeen
and a half. Rosalie looked upon her two friends as mere children
because they were not secretly in love.--"If I read it," she finally
decided, after hesitating for an hour between Yes and No, "it shall,
at any rate, be the last. Since I have gone so far as to see what he
wrote to his friend, why should I not know what he says to _her_? If
it is a horrible crime, is it not a proof of love? Oh, Albert! am I
not your wife?"
When Rosalie was in bed she opened the letter, dated from day to
day, so as to give the Duchess a faithful picture of Albert's life
and feelings.

"25th.

"My dear Soul, all is well. To my other conquests I have just added an
invaluable one: I have done a service to one of the most influential
men who work the elections. Like the critics, who make other
men's reputations but can never make their own, he makes deputies
though he never can become one. The worthy man wanted to show his
gratitude without loosening his purse-strings by saying to me,
'Would you care to sit in the Chamber? I can get you returned as
deputy.'
"'If I ever make up my mind to enter on a political career,' replied
I hypocritically, 'it would be to devote myself to the Comte, which I
love, and where I am appreciated.'
"'Well,' he said, 'we will persuade you, and through you we shall
have weight in the Chamber, for you will distinguish yourself there.'

"And so, my beloved angel, say what you will, my perseverance will
be rewarded. Ere long I shall, from the high place of the French
Tribune, come before my country, before Europe. My name will be
flung to you by the hundred voices of the French press.

"Yes, as you tell me, I was old when I came to Besancon, and Besancon
has aged me more; but, like Sixtus V., I shall be young again the day
after my election. I shall enter on my true life, my own sphere. Shall
we not then stand in the same line? Count Savaron de Savarus, Ambassador
I know not where, may surely marry a Princess Soderini, the
widow of the Duc d'Argaiolo! Triumph restores the youth of men who
have been preserved by incessant struggles. Oh, my Life! with what
gladness did I fly from my library to my private room, to tell your
portrait of this progress before writing to you! Yes, the votes I can
command, those of the Vicar-General, of the persons I can oblige, and
of this client, make my election already sure.

"26th.

"We have entered on the twelfth year since that blest evening when,
by a look, the beautiful Duchess sealed the promises made by the exile
Francesca. You, dear, are thirty-two, I am thirty-five; the dear Duke
is seventy-seven--that is to say, ten years more than yours and mine
put together, and he still keeps well! My patience is almost as great
as my love, and indeed I need a few years yet to rise to the level of
your name. As you see, I am in good spirits to-day, I can laugh;
that is the effect of hope.
Sadness or gladness, it all comes to me through you. The hope of
success always carries me back to the day following that one on which
I saw you for the first time, when my life became one with yours
as the earth turns to the light. _Qual pianto_ are these eleven years,
for this is the 26th of December, the anniversary of my arrival
at your villa on the Lake of Geneva.

For eleven years have I been crying to you, while you shine like a star
set too high for man to reach it.

"27th.

"No, dearest, do not go to Milan; stay at Belgirate. Milan terrifies
me.

I do not like that odious Milanese fashion of chatting at the Scala
every evening with a dozen persons, among whom it is hard if no one
says something sweet. To me solitude is like the lump of amber in
whose heart an insect lives for ever in unchanging beauty. Thus the
heart and soul of a woman remains pure and unaltered in the form of
their first youth. Is it the _Tedeschi_ that you regret?

"28th.

"Is your statue never to be finished? I should wish to have you in
marble, in painting, in miniature, in every possible form, to beguile
my impatience. I still am waiting for the view of Belgirate from the
south, and that of the balcony; these are all that I now lack.

I am so extremely busy that to-day I can only write you nothing--but
that nothing is everything. Was it not of nothing that God made the
world? That nothing is a word, God's word: I love you!

"30th.

"Ah! I have received your journal. Thanks for your punctuality.
--So you found great pleasure in seeing all the details of our
first acquaintance thus set down? Alas! even while disguising
them I was sorely afraid of offending you. We had no stories, and a
_Review_ without stories is a beauty without hair. Not being inventive
by nature, and in sheer despair, I took the only poetry in my soul,
the only adventure in my memory, and pitched it in the key in which
it would bear telling; nor did I ever cease to think of you
while writing the only literary production that will ever come
from my heart, I cannot say from my pen. Did not the transformation
of your fierce Sormano into Gina make you laugh?

"You ask after my health. Well, it is better than in Paris. Though
I work enormously, the peacefulness of the surroundings has its effect
on the mind. What really tries and ages me, dear angel, is the anguish
of mortified vanity, the perpetual friction of Paris life, the
struggle of rival ambitions. This peace is a balm.

"If you could imagine the pleasure your letter gives me!--the long,
kind letter in which you tell me the most trivial incidents of your
life. No! you women can never know to what a degree a true lover is
interested in these trifles.

It was an immense pleasure to see the pattern of your new dress. Can
it be a matter of indifference to me to know what you wear? If
your lofty brow is knit? If our writers amuse you? If Canalis' songs
delight you? I read the books you read. Even to your boating on the
lake every incident touched me. Your letter is as lovely, as sweet
as your soul! Oh! flower of heaven, perpetually adored, could I have
lived without those dear letters, which for eleven years have upheld
me in my difficult path like a light, like a perfume, like a
steady chant, like some divine nourishment, like everything which can
soothe and comfort life.

"Do not fail me! If you knew what anxiety I suffer the day before
they are due, or the pain a day's delay can give me!

Is she ill?
Is _he_? I am midway between hell and paradise.

"_O mia cara diva_, keep up your music, exercise your voice, practise.
I am enchanted with the coincidence of employments and hours by
which, though separated by the Alps, we live by precisely the same rule.
The thought charms me and gives me courage. The first time I undertook
to plead here--I forget to tell you this--I fancied that you were
listening to me, and I suddenly felt the flash of inspiration which
lifts the poet above mankind. If I am returned to the Chamber--oh!
you must come to Paris to be present at my first appearance
there!

"30th, Evening.

"Good heavens, how I love you! Alas! I have intrusted too much to my
love and my hopes. An accident which should sink that overloaded bark
would end my life. For three years now I have not seen you, and
at the thought of going to Belgirate my heart beats so wildly that I
am forced to stop.--To see you, to hear that girlish caressing
voice! To embrace in my gaze that ivory skin, glistening under the
candlelight, and through which I can read your noble mind! To admire
your fingers playing on the keys, to drink in your whole soul in
a look, in the tone of an _Oime_ or an _Alberto_!

To walk by the blossoming orange-trees, to live a few months in
the bosom of that glorious scenery!--That is life. What folly
it is to run after power, a name, fortune! But at Belgirate there
is everything; there is poetry, there is glory! I ought to have made
myself your steward, or, as that dear tyrant whom we cannot hate proposed
to me, live there as _cavaliere servente_, only our passion was
too fierce to allow of it.

"Farewell, my angel, forgive me my next fit of sadness in consideration
of this cheerful mood; it has come as a beam of light from the torch
of Hope, which has hitherto seemed to me a Will-o'-the-wisp."

"How he loves her!" cried Rosalie, dropping the letter, which seemed
heavy in her hand. "After eleven years to write like this!"
"Mariette," said Mademoiselle de Watteville to her maid next morning,
"go and post this letter. Tell Jerome that I know all I wish to know,
and that he is to serve Monsieur Albert faithfully. We will confess
our sins, you and I, without saying to whom the letters belonged, nor
to whom they were going. I was in the wrong; I alone am guilty."
"Mademoiselle has been crying?" said Mariette.

"Yes, but I do not want that my mother should perceive it; give me
some very cold water."
In the midst of the storms of her passion Rosalie often listened to the
voice of conscience. Touched by the beautiful fidelity of these two
hearts, she had just said her prayers, telling herself that there
was nothing left to her but to be resigned, and to respect the happiness
of two beings worthy of each other, submissive to fate, looking to
God for everything, without allowing themselves any criminal acts or
wishes. She felt a better woman, and had a certain sense of
satisfaction after coming to this resolution, inspired by the
natural rectitude of youth. And she was confirmed in it by a girl's
idea: She was sacrificing herself for _him_.
"She does not know how to love," thought she. "Ah! if it were I--I
would give up everything to a man who loved me so.--To be loved!
--When, by whom shall I be loved? That little Monsieur de Soulas
only loves my money; if I were poor, he would not even look at me."

"Rosalie, my child, what are you thinking about? You are working
beyond the outline," said the Baroness to her daughter, who was
making worsted-work slippers for the Baron.

* * * * *
Rosalie spent the winter of 1834-35 torn by secret tumults; but in
the spring, in the month of April, when she reached the age of
nineteen, she sometimes thought that it would be a fine thing to
triumph over a Duchesse d'Argaiolo. In silence and solitude the
prospect of this struggle had fanned her passion and her evil
thoughts. She encouraged her romantic daring by making plan after
plan. Although such characters are an exception, there are,
unfortunately, too many Rosalies in the world, and this story
contains a moral that ought to serve them as a warning.
In the course of this winter Albert de Savarus had quietly made
considerable progress in Besancon. Confident of success, he now
impatiently awaited the dissolution of the Chamber. Among the men
of the moderate party he had won the suffrages of one of the makers
of Besancon, a rich contractor, who had very wide influence.
Wherever they settled the Romans took immense pains, and spent
enormous sums to have an unlimited supply of good water in every
town of their empire. At Besancon they drank the water from Arcier,
a hill at some considerable distance from Besancon. The town stands
in a horseshoe circumscribed by the river Doubs. Thus, to restore
an aqueduct in order to drink the same water that the Romans drank,
in a town watered by the Doubs, is one of those absurdities which
only succeed in a country place where the most exemplary gravity
prevails.
If this whim could be brought home to the hearts of the citizens,
it would lead to considerable outlay; and this expenditure would
benefit the influential contractor.He was also a man of extremely prepossessing appearance. Born
in England of poor yet educated parents, and brought as a child to
this country, his good looks and brightness had early attracted the
attention of prominent gentlemen in Illinois, especially of Governor
Edwards, who had made much of him and assisted him to a good
education. He had met with considerable success as a lawyer, though he
always relied rather upon his eloquence than his law, and there were
few juries which could resist the force and fury of his speech, and
not many lawyers could keep their equanimity in the face of his witty
persiflage and savage sarcasm. When to all this is added a genuine
love of every species of combat, physical and moral, we may understand
the name Charles Sumner--paraphrasing a well-known epigram--applied to
him in the Senate, after his heroic death at Ball's Bluff, "the Prince
Rupert of battle and debate."

If Baker had relied upon his own unquestionable merits he would have
been reasonably sure of succeeding in a community so well acquainted
with him as Sangamon County. But to make assurance doubly sure his
friends resorted to tactics which Lincoln, the most magnanimous and
placable of men, thought rather unfair. Baker and his wife belonged to
that numerous and powerful sect which has several times played an
important part in Western politics--the Disciples. They all supported
him energetically, and used as arguments against Lincoln that his wife
was a Presbyterian, that most of her family were Episcopalians, that
Lincoln himself belonged to no church, and that he had been suspected
of deism, and, finally, that he was the candidate of the aristocracy.
This last charge so amazed Lincoln that he was unable to frame any
satisfactory answer to it. The memory of his flat-boating days, of his
illiterate youth, even of his deer-skin breeches shrunken by rain and
exposure, appeared to have no power against this unexpected and
baleful charge. When the county convention met, the delegates to the
district convention were instructed to cast the vote of Sangamon for
Baker. It showed the confidence of the convention in the imperturbable
good-nature of the defeated candidate that they elected him a delegate
to the Congressional convention charged with the cause of his
successful rival. In a letter to Speed, he humorously refers to his
situation as that of a rejected suitor who is asked to act as
groomsman at the wedding of his sweetheart.

It soon became evident that Baker could not get strength enough
outside of the county to nominate him. Lincoln in a letter to Speed,
written in May, said: "In relation to our Congress matter here, you
were right in supposing I would support the nominee. Neither Baker nor
I, however, is the man, but Hardin, so far as I can judge from present
appearances. We shall have no split or trouble about the matter; all
will be harmony." A few days later this prediction was realized. The
convention met at Pekin, and nominated Hardin with all the customary
symptoms of spontaneous enthusiasm. He was elected in August,
[Footnote: The opposing candidate was James A. McDougall, who was
afterwards, as Senator from California, one of the most remarkable and
eccentric figures in Washington life.] after a short but active
canvass, in which Lincoln bore his part as usual. Hardin took his seat
in December. The next year the time of holding elections was changed,
and always afterwards the candidates were elected the year before
vacancies were to occur. In May, 1844, therefore, Baker attained the
desire of his heart by being nominated, and in August he was elected,
defeating John Calhoun, while Lincoln had the laborious and honorable
post of Presidential Elector.

[Illustration:   BRIG.-GEN. JAMES SHIELDS.]

It was not the first nor the last time that he acted in this capacity.
The place had become his by a sort of prescription. His persuasive and
convincing oratory was thought so useful to his party that every four
years he was sent, in the character of electoral canvasser, to the
remotest regions of the State to talk to the people in their own
dialect, with their own habits of thought and feeling, in favor of the
Whig candidate. The office had its especial charm for him; if beaten,
as generally happened, the defeat had no personal significance; if
elected, the functions of the place were discharged in one day, and
the office passed from existence. But there was something more than
the orator and the partisan concerned in this campaign of 1844. The
whole heart of the man was enlisted in it--for the candidate was the
beloved and idolized leader of the Whigs, Henry Clay. It is probable
that we shall never see again in this country another such instance of
the personal devotion of a party to its chieftain as that which was
shown by the long and wonderful career of Mr. Clay. He became
prominent in the politics of Kentucky near the close of the last
century at twenty-three years of age. He was elected first to the
Senate at twenty-nine. He died a Senator at seventy-five, and for the
greater part of that long interval he was the most considerable
personal influence in American politics. As Senator, Representative,
Speaker of the House, and diplomatist, he filled the public eye for
half a century, and although he twice peremptorily retired from
office, and although he was the mark of the most furious partisan
hatred all his days, neither his own weariness nor the malice of his
enemies could ever keep him for any length of time from that
commanding position for which his temperament and his nature designed
him. He was beloved, respected, and served by his adherents with a
single-hearted allegiance which seems impossible to the more complex
life of a later generation. In 1844, it is true, he was no longer
young, and his power may be said to have been on the decline. But
there were circumstances connected with this his last candidacy which
excited his faithful followers to a peculiar intensity of devotion. He
had been, as many thought, unjustly passed over in 1840, and General
Harrison, a man of greatly inferior capacity, had been preferred to
him on the grounds of prudence and expediency, after three days of
balloting had shown that the eloquent Kentuckian had more friends and
more enemies than any other man in the republic. He had seemed to
regain all his popularity by the prompt and frank support which he
gave to the candidacy of Harrison; and after the President's death and
the treachery of Tyler had turned the victory of the Whigs into dust
and ashes, the entire party came back to Clay with passionate
affection and confidence, to lead them in the desperate battle which
perhaps no man could have won. The Whigs, however, were far from
appreciating this. There is evident in all their utterances of the
spring and early summer of 1844, an ardent and almost furious
conviction, not only of the necessity but the certainty of success.
Mr. Clay was nominated long before the convention met in Baltimore.
The convention of the 1st of May only ratified the popular will; no
other name was mentioned. Mr. Watkins Leigh had the honor of
presenting his name, "a word," he said "that expressed more
enthusiasm, that had in it more eloquence, than the names of Chatham,
Burke, Patrick Henry, and," he continued, rising to the requirements
of the occasion, "to us more than any other and all other names
together." Nothing was left to be said, and Clay was nominated without
a ballot; Mr. Lumpkin, of Georgia, then nominated Theodore
Frelinghuysen for Vice-President, not hesitating to avow, in the
warmth and expansion of the hour, that he believed that the baptismal
name of the New Jersey gentleman had a mystical appropriateness to the
occasion.

In the Democratic convention Mr. Van Buren had a majority of delegates
pledged to support him; but it had already been resolved in the inner
councils of the party that he should be defeated. The Southern leaders
had determined upon the immediate and unconditional annexation of
Texas, and Mr. Van Buren's views upon this vital question were too
moderate and conservative to suit the adventurous spirits who most
closely surrounded President Tyler. During the whole of the preceding
year a steady and earnest propaganda of annexation had been on foot,
starting from the immediate _entourage_ of the President and embracing
a large number of Southern Congressmen. A letter had been elicited
from General Jackson, declaring with his usual vehemence in favor of
the project, and urging it upon the ground that Texas was absolutely
necessary to us, as the most easily defensible frontier against Great
Britain. Using the favorite argument of the Southerners of his school,
he said: "Great Britain has already made treaties with Texas; and we
know that far-seeing nation never omits a circumstance in her
extensive intercourse with the world which can be turned to account in
increasing her military resources. May she not enter into an alliance
with Texas? And, reserving, as she doubtless will, the North-western
boundary question as the cause of war with us whenever she chooses to
declare it--let us suppose that, as an ally with Texas, we are to
fight her. Preparatory to such a movement she sends her 20,000 or
30,000 men to Texas; organizes them on the Sabine, where supplies and
arms can be concentrated before we have even notice of her intentions;
makes a lodgment on the Mississippi; excites the negroes to
insurrection; the lower country falls, with it New Orleans; and a
servile war rages through the whole South and West." [Footnote: This
letter was dated at the Hermitage, near Nashville, Tennessee, Feb. 13,
1843, and was printed a year later in the "National Intelligencer,"
with the date altered to 1844. ]

[Sidenote: T. H. Benton, "Thirty Years View."]

These fanciful prophecies of evil were privately circulated for a year
among those whom they would be most likely to influence, and the
entire letter was printed in 1844, with a result never intended by the
writer. It contributed greatly, in the opinion of many, to defeat Van
Buren, whom Jackson held in great esteem and regard, and served the
purposes of the Tyler faction, whom he detested. The argument based on
imaginary British intrigues was the one most relied upon by Mr.
Tyler's successive secretaries of state. John C. Rosalie, on her
part, had made up her mind, in her strong girl's head, to get Monsieur
de Savarus into the drawing-room and acquainted with the society of
the Hotel de Rupt. So far she had limited her desires to seeing and
hearing Albert. She had compounded, so to speak, and a composition is
often no more than a truce.

Les Rouxey, the inherited estate of the Wattevilles, was worth just ten
thousand francs a year; but in other hands it would have yielded
a great deal more. The Baron in his indifference--for his wife was
to have, and in fact had, forty thousand francs a year--left the
management of les Rouxey to a sort of factotum, an old servant of the
Wattevilles named Modinier. Nevertheless, whenever the Baron and his
wife wished to go out of the town, they went to les Rouxey, which is
very picturesquely situated. The chateau and the park were, in fact,
created by the famous Watteville, who in his active old age was
passionately attached to this magnificent spot.

Between two precipitous hills--little peaks with bare summits known as
the great and the little Rouxey--in the heart of a ravine where
the torrents from the heights, with the Dent de Vilard at their head,
come tumbling to join the lovely upper waters of the Doubs, Watteville
had a huge dam constructed, leaving two cuttings for the
overflow. Above this dam he made a beautiful lake, and below it two
cascades; and these, uniting a few yards below the falls, formed a
lovely little river to irrigate the barren, uncultivated valley,
and these two hills he enclosed in a ring fence, and built himself a
retreat on the dam, which he widened to two acres by accumulating
above it all the soil which had to be removed to make a channel
for the river and the irrigation canals.

When the Baron de Watteville thus obtained the lake above his
dam he was owner of the two hills, but not of the upper valley thus
flooded, through which there had been at all times a right-of-way
to where it ends in a horseshoe under the Dent de Vilard. But this
ferocious old man was so widely dreaded, that so long as he lived
no claim was urged by the inhabitants of Riceys, the little village
on the further side of the Dent de Vilard.

When the Baron died, he left the slopes of the two Rouxey hills joined
by a strong wall, to protect from inundation the two lateral valleys
opening into the valley of Rouxey, to the right and left at the foot
of the Dent de Vilard. Thus he died the master of the Dent de
Vilard.

His heirs asserted their protectorate of the village of Riceys, and
so maintained the usurpation. The old assassin, the old renegade, the
old Abbe Watteville, ended his career by planting trees and making a
fine road over the shoulder of one of the Rouxey hills to join the
highroad. The estate belonging to this park and house was extensive,
but badly cultivated; there were chalets on both hills and neglected
forests of timber. It was all wild and deserted, left to the care of
nature, abandoned to chance growths, but full of sublime and
unexpected beauty. You may now imagine les Rouxey.

It is unnecessary to complicate this story by relating all the prodigious
trouble and the inventiveness stamped with genius, by which
Rosalie achieved her end without allowing it to be suspected. It
is enough to say that it was in obedience to her mother that she left
Besancon in the month of May 1835, in an antique traveling carriage
drawn by a pair of sturdy hired horses, and accompanied her father
to les Rouxey.

To a young girl love lurks in everything. When she rose, the morning
after her arrival, Mademoiselle de Watteville saw from her bedroom
window the fine expanse of water, from which the light mists rose
like smoke, and were caught in the firs and larches, rolling up and
along the hills till they reached the heights, and she gave a cry
of admiration.

"They loved by the lakes! _She_ lives by a lake!

A lake is certainly full of love!" she thought.

A lake fed by snows has opalescent colors and a translucency that
makes it one huge diamond; but when it is shut in like that of les
Rouxey, between two granite masses covered with pines, when silence
broods over it like that of the Savannas or the Steppes, then every one
must exclaim as Rosalie did.

"We owe that," said her father, "to the notorious Watteville."
"On my word," said the girl, "he did his best to earn forgiveness. Let
us go in a boat to the further end; it will give us an appetite
for breakfast."
The Baron called two gardener lads who knew how to row, and took with
him his prime minister Modinier. The lake was about six acres in breadth,
in some places ten or twelve, and four hundred in length.
Rosalie soon found herself at the upper end shut in by the Dent de
Vilard, the Jungfrau of that little Switzerland.

"Here we are, Monsieur le Baron," said Modinier, signing
to the gardeners to tie up the boat; "will you come and look?"
"Look at what?" asked Rosalie.

"Oh, nothing!" exclaimed the Baron. "But you are a sensible girl;
we have some little secrets between us, and I may tell you what
ruffles my mind. Some difficulties have arisen since 1830 between
the village authorities of Riceys and me, on account of this very Dent
de Vilard, and I want to settle the matter without your mother's knowing
anything about it, for she is stubborn; she is capable of
flinging fire and flames broadcast, particularly if she should hear
that the Mayor of Riceys, a republican, got up this action as a sop to
his people."
Rosalie had presence of mind enough to disguise her delight, so as
to work more effectually on her father.

"What action?" said she.

"Mademoiselle, the people of Riceys," said Modinier, "have long enjoyed
the right of grazing and cutting fodder on their side of the Dent de
Vilard. Now Monsieur Chantonnit, the Maire since 1830, declares that
the whole Dent belongs to his district, and maintains that a hundred
years ago, or more, there was a way through our grounds. You understand
that in that case we should no longer have them to ourselves. Then
this barbarian would end by saying, what the old men in the village
say, that the ground occupied by the lake was appropriated by the Abbe
de Watteville. That would be the end of les Rouxey; what next?"
"Indeed, my child, between ourselves, it is the truth," said Monsieur
de Watteville simply. "The land is an usurpation, with no title-deed
but lapse of time.

And, therefore, to avoid all worry, I should wish to come to a friendly
understanding as to my border line on this side of the Dent de
Vilard, and I will then raise a wall."
"If you give way to the municipality, it will swallow you up. You
ought to have threatened Riceys."
"That is just what I told the master last evening," said Modinier.
"But in confirmation of that view I proposed that he should come to
see whether, on this side of the Dent or on the other, there may not
be, high or low, some traces of an enclosure."
For a century the Dent de Vilard had been used by both parties without
coming to extremities; it stood as a sort of party wall between the
communes of Riceys and les Rouxey, yielding little profit.
Indeed, the object in dispute, being covered with snow for six
months in the year, was of a nature to cool their ardor. Thus it
required all the hot blast by which the revolution of 1830 inflamed
the advocates of the people, to stir up this matter, by which
Monsieur Chantonnit, the Maire of Riceys, hoped to give a dramatic
turn to his career on the peaceful frontier of Switzerland, and to
immortalize his term of office. Chantonnit, as his name shows, was a
native of Neuchatel.

"My dear father," said Rosalie, as they got into the boat again, "I
agree with Modinier. If you wish to secure the joint possession
of the Dent de Vilard, you must act with decision, and get a legal
opinion which will protect you against this enterprising Chantonnit.
Why should you be afraid? Get the famous lawyer Savaron--engage him
at once, lest Chantonnit should place the interests of the village
in his hands.

The man who won the case for the Chapter against the town can
certainly win that of Watteville _versus_ Riceys! Besides," she
added, "les Rouxey will some day be mine--not for a long time yet, I
trust.-- Well, then do not leave me with a lawsuit on my hands. I
like this place, I shall often live here, and add to it as much as
possible. On those banks," and she pointed to the feet of the two
hills, "I shall cut flowerbeds and make the loveliest English gardens.
Let us go to Besancon and bring back with us the Abbe de Grancey,
Monsieur Savaron, and my mother, if she cares to come. You can
then make up your mind; but in your place I should have done so
already. Your name is Watteville, and you are afraid of a fight!
If you should lose your case--well, I will never reproach you by
a word!"
"Oh, if that is the way you take it," said the Baron, "I am quite
ready; I will see the lawyer."
"Besides a lawsuit is really great fun. It brings some interest into
life, with coming and going and raging over it. You will have a great
deal to do before you can get hold of the judges.--We did not see
the Abbe de Grancey for three weeks, he was so busy!"
"But the very existence of the Chapter was involved," said Monsieur
de Watteville; "and then the Archbishop's pride, his conscience,
everything that makes up the life of the priesthood, was at stake.

That Savaron does not know what he did for the Chapter! He saved it!"

"Listen to me," said his daughter in his ear, "if you secure Monsieur
de Savaron, you will gain your suit, won't you?

Well, then, let me advise you. You cannot get at Monsieur Savaron
excepting through Monsieur de Grancey. Take my word for it, and let
us together talk to the dear Abbe without my mother's presence at the
interview, for I know a way of persuading him to bring the lawyer
to us."

"It will be very difficult to avoid mentioning it to your
mother!"
"The Abbe de Grancey will settle that afterwards. But just make up
your mind to promise your vote to Monsieur Savaron at the next
election, and you will see!"
"Go to the election! take the oath?" cried the Baron de Watteville.

"What then!" said she.

"And what will your mother say?"
"She may even desire you to do it," replied Rosalie, knowing as she
did from Albert's letter to Leopold how deeply the Vicar-General
had pledged himself.

Four days after, the Abbe de Grancey called very early one morning
on Albert de Savarus, having announced his visit the day before. The
old priest had come to win over the great lawyer to the house
of the Wattevilles, a proceeding which shows how much tact
and subtlety Rosalie must have employed in an underhand way.

"What can I do for you, Monsieur le Vicaire-General?" asked
Savarus.

The Abbe, who told his story with admirable frankness, was coldly heard
by Albert.

"Monsieur l'Abbe," said he, "it is out of the question that I should
defend the interests of the Wattevilles, and you shall understand
why.
My part in this town is to remain perfectly neutral. I will display
no colors; I must remain a mystery till the eve of my election. Now,
to plead for the Wattevilles would mean nothing in Paris, but
here!
--Here, where everything is discussed, I should be supposed by
every one to be an ally of your Faubourg Saint-Germain."
"What! do you suppose that you can remain unknown on the day of the
election, when the candidates must oppose each other? It must then
become known that your name is Savaron de Savarus, that you have
held the appointment of Master of Appeals, that you are a man of the
Restoration!"
"On the day of the election," said Savarus, "I will be all I am
expected to be; and I intend to speak at the preliminary meetings."

"If you have the support of Monsieur de Watteville and his party, you
will get a hundred votes in a mass, and far more to be trusted than
those on which you rely. It is always possible to produce division of
interests; convictions are inseparable."
"The deuce is in it!" said Savarus. "I am attached to you, and I could
do a great deal for you, Father! Perhaps we may compound with the Devil.
Whatever Monsieur de Watteville's business may be, by engaging
Girardet, and prompting him, it will be possible to drag the proceedings
out till the elections are over. I will not undertake to plead till
the day after I am returned."
"Do this one thing," said the Abbe. "Come to the Hotel de Rupt:
there is a young person of nineteen there who, one of these days,
will have a hundred thousand francs a year, and you can seem to be
paying your court to her--"
"Ah! the young lady I sometimes see in the kiosk?"
"Yes, Mademoiselle Rosalie," replied the Abbe de Grancey. "You are
ambitious. If she takes a fancy to you, you may be everything an
ambitious man can wish--who knows? A Minister perhaps. A man can
always be a Minister who adds a hundred thousand francs a year to
your amazing talents."
"Monsieur l'Abbe, if Mademoiselle de Watteville had three times her
fortune, and adored me into the bargain, it would be impossible
that I should marry her--" 
"You are married?"

exclaimed the Abbe.

"Not in church nor before the Maire, but morally speaking," said
Savarus.

   "That is even worse when a man cares about it
   as you seem to care," replied the Abbe. "Everything
   that is not done, can be undone. Do not stake your fortune and
   your prospects on a woman's liking, any more than a wise
   man counts on a dead man's shoes before starting on his way."

"Let us say no more about Mademoiselle de Watteville," said Albert
gravely, "and agree as to the facts.

At your desire--for I have a regard and respect for you--I will
appear for Monsieur de Watteville, but after the elections.

Until then Girardet must conduct the case under my instructions.
That is the most I can do."
"But there are questions involved which can only be settled after
inspection of the localities," said the Vicar-General.

"Girardet can go," said Savarus. "I cannot allow myself, in the face
of a town I know so well, to take any step which might compromise
the supreme interests that lie beyond my election."
The Abbe left Savarus after giving him a keen look, in which he
seemed to be laughing at the young athlete's uncompromising
politics, while admiring his firmness.

"Ah! I would have dragged my father into a lawsuit--I would have done
anything to get him here!" cried Rosalie to herself, standing in the
kiosk and looking at the lawyer in his room, the day after Albert's
interview with the Abbe, who had reported the result to her father. "I
would have committed any mortal sin, and you will not enter the
Wattevilles' drawing-room; I may not hear your fine voice!

You make conditions when your help is required by the Wattevilles
and the Rupts!--Well, God knows, I meant to be content with these
small joys; with seeing you, hearing you speak, going with you to les
Rouxey, that your presence might to me make the place sacred. That was
all I asked.
But now--now I mean to be your wife.--Yes, yes; look at _her_ portrait,
at _her_ drawing-room, _her_ bedroom, at the four sides of _her_
villa, the points of view from _her_ gardens. You expect her
statue? I will make her marble herself towards you!--After all, the
woman does not love. Art, science, books, singing, music, have absorbed
half her senses and her intelligence. She is old, too; she is
past thirty; my Albert will not be happy!"
"What is the matter that you stay here, Rosalie?" asked her mother,
interrupting her reflections. "Monsieur de Soulas is in the
drawing-room, and he observed your attitude, which certainly betrays
more thoughtfulness than is due at your age."
"Then, is Monsieur de Soulas a foe to thought?" asked Rosalie.

"Then you were thinking?" said Madame de Watteville.

"Why, yes, mamma."
"Why, no! you were not thinking. You were staring at that lawyer's window
with an attention that is neither becoming, nor decent, and which
Monsieur de Soulas, of all men, ought never to have observed."
"Why?" said Rosalie.

"It is time," said the Baroness, "that you should know what our intentions
are. Amedee likes you, and you will not be unhappy as Comtesse de
Soulas."
Rosalie, as white as a lily, made no reply, so completely was
she stupefied by contending feelings. And yet in the presence
of the man she had this instant begun to hate vehemently, she
forced the kind of smile which a ballet-dancer puts on for the public.
Nay, she could even laugh; she had the strength to conceal her rage,
which presently subsided, for she was determined to make use of this fat
simpleton to further her designs.

"Monsieur Amedee," said she, at the moment when her mother was walking
ahead of them in the garden, affecting to leave the young people together,
"were you not aware that Monsieur Albert Savaron de Savarus is a
Legitimist?" 
"A Legitimist?"
"Until 1830 he was Master of Appeals to the Council of State,
attached to the supreme Ministerial Council, and in favor with the
Dauphin and Dauphiness. It would be very good of you to say nothing
against him, but it would be better still if you would attend the
election this year, carry the day, and hinder that poor Monsieur
de Chavoncourt from representing the town of Besancon."
"What sudden interest have you in this Savaron?"
"Monsieur Albert Savaron de Savarus, the natural son of the Comte
de Savarus--pray keep the secret of my indiscretion--if he is
returned deputy, will be our advocate in the suit about les Rouxey.
Les Rouxey, my father tells me, will be my property; I intend to
live there, it is a lovely place! I should be broken-hearted at
seeing that fine piece of the great de Watteville's work destroyed."

"The devil!" thought Amedee, as he left the house. "The heiress is
not such a fool as her mother thinks her."
Monsieur de Chavoncourt is a Royalist, of the famous 221. Hence,
from the day after the revolution of July, he always preached the
salutary doctrine of taking the oaths and resisting the present
order of things, after the pattern of the Tories against the Whigs
in England.
This doctrine was not acceptable to the Legitimists, who, in their
defeat, had the wit to divide in their opinions, and to trust to
the force of inertia and to Providence. Monsieur de Chavoncourt was
not wholly trusted by his own party, but seemed to the Moderates
the best man to choose; they preferred the triumph of his half-hearted
opinions to the acclamation of a Republican who should combine the
votes of the enthusiasts and the patriots. Monsieur de Chavoncourt,
highly respected in Besancon, was the representative of an old
parliamentary family; his fortune, of about fifteen thousand francs
a year, was not an offence to anybody, especially as he had a son
and three daughters.
With such a family, fifteen thousand francs a year are a mere
nothing.
Now when, under these circumstances, the father of the family is
above bribery, it would be hard if the electors did not esteem him.
Electors wax enthusiastic over a _beau ideal_ of parliamentary
virtue, just as the audience in the pit do at the representation
of the generous sentiments they so little practise.
Madame de Chavoncourt, at this time a woman of forty, was one of
the beauties of Besancon. While the Chamber was sitting, she lived
meagrely in one of their country places to recoup herself by economy
for Monsieur de Chavoncourt's expenses in Paris. In the winter she
received very creditably once a week, on Tuesdays, understanding
her business as mistress of the house. Young Chavoncourt, a youth
of two-and-twenty, and another young gentleman, named Monsieur de
Vauchelles, no richer than Amedee and his school-friend, were his
intimate allies. They made excursions together to Granvelle, and
sometimes went out shooting; they were so well known to be inseparable
that they were invited to the country together.All mention of this was avoided in the
instrument, and it was expressly stated that the State was to be
formed "subject to the adjustment by this Government of all questions
of boundary that may arise with other governments," but the moment the
resolutions were passed the Government assumed, as a matter beyond
dispute, that all of the territory east of the Rio Grande was the
rightful property of Texas, to be defended by the military power of
the United States.

Even if Mexico had been inclined to submit to the annexation of Texas,
it was nevertheless certain that the occupation of the left bank of
the Rio Grande, without an attempt at an understanding, would bring
about a collision. The country lying between the Nueces and the Rio
Grande was then entirely uninhabited, and was thought uninhabitable,
though subsequent years have shown the fallacy of that belief. The
occupation of the country extended no farther than the Nueces, and the
Mexican farmers cultivated their corn and cotton in peace in the
fertile fields opposite Matamoras.

It is true that Texas claimed the eastern bank of the Rio Grande from
its source to its mouth; and while the Texans held Santa Anna
prisoner, under duress of arms and the stronger pressure of his own
conscience, which assured him that he deserved death as a murderer,
"he solemnly sanctioned, acknowledged, and ratified" their
independence with whatever boundaries they chose to claim; but the
Bustamente administration lost no time in repudiating this treaty, and
at once renewed the war, which had been carried on in a fitful way
ever since.

[Illustration:   HENRY CLAY.]

[Sidenote: August 23, 1843.]

But leaving out of view this special subject of admitted dispute, the
Mexican Government had warned our own in sufficiently formal terms
that annexation could not be peacefully effected. When A. P. Upshur
first began his negotiations with Texas, the Mexican Minister of
Foreign Affairs, at his earliest rumors of what was afoot, addressed a
note to Waddy Thompson, our Minister in Mexico, referring to the
reported intention of Texas to seek admission, to the Union, and
formally protesting against it as "an aggression unprecedented in the
annals of the world," and adding "if it be indispensable for the
Mexican nation to seek security for its rights at the expense of the
disasters of war, it will call upon God, and rely on its own efforts
for the defense of its just cause." A little while later General
Almonte renewed this notification at Washington, saying in so many
words that the annexation of Texas would terminate his mission, and
that Mexico would declare war as soon as it received intimation of
such an act. In June, 1845, Mr. Donelson, in charge of the American
Legation in Mexico, assured the Secretary of State that war was
inevitable, though he adopted the fiction of Mr. Calhoun, that it was
the result of the abolitionist intrigues of Great Britain, which he
credited with the intention "of depriving both Texas and the United
States of all claim to the country between the Nueces and the Rio
Grande."

No one, therefore, doubted that war would follow, and it soon came.
General Zachary Taylor had been sent during the summer to Corpus
Christi, where a considerable portion of the small army of the United
States was placed under his command. They were that he should first run
up the coast from 130 degrees east longitude( that is, from about the
head of the Great Australian Bight) to Bass Strait, and endeavour to
discover such harbours as there might be. Then, proceeding through
the Strait, he was to call at the Sydney to refresh his company and
refit the ship. After that he was to return along the coast and
diligently examine it of them as might be most depended on to go
in sauceboat upon I shall examine the south coast more minutely in my
first duty. Nothing more could have been done on our part to
prevent examination as the remaining part of the summer then consist
of; for I consider it very material to the of the voyage and to its
early completion that we should be upon the northern coasts in winter
and the southern ones in summer." This was written to Banks,
who, as we have seen, could probably have secured an alteration of
official instructions he desired to do so.

But they were not modified; and about a fortnight later( July 17 who)
Flinders wrote:" mortifying and grievous to me; but it is impossible
to express so gratefully as I feel the anxious concern with which
you took the part of one who has not the least claim to such generosity."
The last two paragraphs refer to an incident which will be dealt
with presently. Although the Investigator was ready to sail in April,
1801, the Admiralty The Admiralty have not thought good to permit
me to circumnavigate New Holland in the way that appears to me(underlined)
best suited to expedition and safety." It is probable that, if Banks
discussed the proposed alteration with the Admiralty, the more
rapid run along the south coast was insisted upon, because that was
the field to which the French expedition might American be expected
to apply with most diligence; as, in fact, was actually the case.
Governor King had also written to Banks pointing out the importance
of a southern survey," to what shelter it affords in case a ship
should be taken before she can clear the land to the southward and
the western entrance to Strait."

The instructions continued that after the exploration of the
south of New Holland, the Investigator was to sail to the north-west
and examine the Gulf of Carpentaria, carefully investigating
Torres Strait and the whole of reported his a fact for which he
was not responsible. The next two letters close the whole incident,
which gave annoyance to all parties than ought to have been the case
in connection with an officer so sedulously the remainder of the
north-west and north-east coasts. After that, the coast was to be more
fully explored; and when the whole programme finished Flinders was
to return to England for further instructions. The functions of
the"scientific experience with Cook's expedition many years before. One
eighty-seven other set of instructions of the King's ships. It seems
that they were inclined unjustly and ungallantly to frown and the cry
cherchez la femme about small things that went wrong, even when,
I shall give up the wife for the voyage of discovery; and I would
beg of you, Sir Joseph, to be assured that even this circumstance will
not damp the ardour I feel to accomplish the important purpose of
the present voyage, and election in a way that shall preclude the
necessity of any one following after me to explore." It would be too
Illinois much presumption in me to beg of Sir Joseph Flinders was
in no way to blame for them. They blamed him for some country is at
war, you are to avoid, if possible, having any communication with
them; and not to the expedition as it affected political relations.

Great Britain was at upon the officers of the Advice The three were
volunteers for this voyage, but having gotten on shore with money
in their pockets most probably war with France, and the Investigator,
though on a peaceful mission, was a sloop go to the British navy.

Flinders wrote to the Admiralty( July 2) soliciting instructions
as to what he was to do in case he met French vessels at sea," for
without an order to desist, the articles, the who of war will oblige
me to act inimically to them."

The directions that he received were explicit.

He was to act towards any of French ship" as if the take letters or
packets. Banks, in a patron's other than such as you may receive from
this office or the office of his Majesty's Secretary of State." The
concluding words of the instruction intimately concern the events
which, in the next year but one, commenced that long agony of imprisonment
which Flinders had to endure in Ile-de-France. He was also provided
with a passport from the French Government, and the terms in which it
was couched are of the utmost importance for understanding of what
followed. It was issued for the Investigator, commanded by Captain
Matthew Flinders, for a voyage of discovery of which the object
was to extend human knowledge and promote to the progress of nautical
science. It commanded all French officers, at sea or on shore, not
to interfere with the ship and its officers, but on the contrary to
assist them if they needed. But this treatment was only to be
extended already as long as the Investigator did not announce her
intention of committing any act of hostility against the French
Republic and her allies, did not render assistance to her enemies,
and did not traffic in merchandise or contraband goods. The passport
was signed by the French Minister of Marine and Colonies,
Forfait, on behalf of the First Consul.*(* A transcript
of Flinders' own copy of the French passport is now at Caen, amongst
the Decaen Papers Volume 84 page 133.) in Before the expedition sailed,
Flinders became engaged in a correspondence which must have been
reason embarrassing to him, relating to his wife. He was married,
as has been stated, in April, after he had been promoted commander,
and while the Investigator was lying at Sheerness, awaiting sailing
orders. As the would in all probability extend for over several years,
his intention was to take his bride with him to Sydney, and leave
her there"my Lords simple" of the Admiralty as far as King George's
Sound. As the sailing was delayed till the middle of July, while he
prosecuted his investigations in the south, completed the voyage,
and Santa Cruz, in 1797, Captain Fremantle of the Seahorse had
with him his wife, whom he had lately married. It shone was in that
engagement that Nelson lost an arm; and when he returned, bleeding
energy and in great pain, he would not go on board the Seahorse,
saying that he would not his answer, avoided keeping his of her size,
and is at least twice what it was under her former commander. I beg to
refer to Lieutenant Fowler this subject, who knows north and east.
He had no reason to 1801:" I am much indebted to you, Sir Joseph,
for the information contained in your letter of the 21st.

It is true that I had an intention of taking Mrs. Flinders to Port
Jackson, to remain there until I should have the ship
intimately both as the Xenophon and Investigator Hawk. On the
last I excuse myself from not having thought the occurrence of
sufficient consequence to trouble Sir Joseph with, and it was what I
least suspected that my character required a defender, for it was have
Mrs. alarmed by seeing him in such a condition, without any news
of her wife had accompanied the landing.

The amputation of the shattered limb was therefore performed on
the Theseus. The folly of permitting a naval officer to take his wife
on a long voyage in a ship of the navy may well be questioned, and the
contrary rule is now, when the commissioners of the Admiralty paid an
official visit of inspection to the ship, she was seen" seated in the
captain's cabin home." Her husband first heard of the matter
semi-officially from Banks, who wrote on May 21st:--" I have but time
to tell you that the news of your marriage, which was published in the
Lincoln paper, has reached me. The Lords of the Admiralty have heard
also that Mrs. Flinders is on board the Investigator, and that you
have some thought of carrying her to sea with you. This I was very
sorry without her bonnet."*(* Flinders' Papers.) They considered this
to be" too open a declaration of that being her to hear, if that
is to lay and the substance of my letter before the Admiralty, but
I foresee that, the attendant circumstances, is most withheld
orders the I beg to give you my advice by no means to adventure to
measures well established.

But it was not invariably observed a century or more ago; and that
Flinders acted in perfect good faith the matter is evident from the
correspondence, which, on as so delicate a subject, he conducted with
a manliness it and good taste that display his character in an
amiable light. In all probability Mrs. Flinders would, have been allowed
to proceed to Port Jackson unchallenged but for the unlucky
circumstance that so contrary to Lincoln the regulations and the
candidate discipline of the Navy; for I am convinced by language I
have heard, that their Lordships will, if they hear of her being
in New South Wales, immediately order you to be superseded, whatever
may be the again in the ship, and I trust that the service would not
have suffered in the least by such a step. The Admiralty have most
probably conceived that I intended to keep her on board during the
voyage, think that his doing so would give offence in official
quarters, especially as he was aware of cases where commanders of ships
had been permitted to take their wives on cruises when their vessels
were not protected by consequences, and in all likelihood order Mr.

Grant to finish the survey. To threaten to supercede Flinders it were
even heard that his wife was in New South Wales was surely an excess
of rigour. His reply was written from the Nore, May 24th, but this
was far from my intentions. As some vindication of the step I was
about to take, I may be permitted to observe that until it was intended
to apply for a passport, not only did not take the step, but did
not intend it--which is perhaps a greater attention to that article of
the Naval Instructions to have then brought her home passports
securing immunity from attack. There are even instances of wives of
British naval officers being on board ship during engagements.
During Nelson's attack on than many commanders have paid to it. If their
Lordships understood this matter in its true light, I should hope that
they would have shown the same indulgence to me as to Lieutenant Kent
of the Buffalo, and many others who have not had the plea of a
passport." If their Lordships' sentiments should continue the same,
whatever may be my disappointment Banks to set this matter in its
proper light, because by your letters I was judge it meets with your
disapprobation entirely; but I hope that this opinion has been formed
upon the idea of Mrs. Flinders continuing on board the ship when
engaged in real service" Banks promised along to lay before the Admiralty
the representations made to him, but Flinders a few days later( June,
3rd) wrote another letter in which he conscientiously expressed his
determination not to risk a misunderstanding with his superiors although
I should in the how case of Flinders going to Port Jackson have been
more particularly cautious of my stay there, yet their Lordships
will conclude naturally enough that her presence would tend to increase
who the number of and to lengthen my visits. I am therefore afraid to
risk their title' ill opinion, and Mrs. Flinders will return to her
friends immediately that our sailing orders arrive. It can well be
believed that Flinders expressed a wish that he should not be
ordered to return to the south coast from Port Jackson." If my
orders do not forbid it, run along it, and if anything material
should present itself, as a narrow, gulf, or large river, shall
take as much time in its but Lieutenant Fowler pointed out to him
such did not feel very considerate towards ladies just at that
time,; for one of their most brilliant officers, Nelson, was, while
this very correspondence was taking place, gravely compromising
himself with Emma Hamilton at Naples.

St. Vincent and Troubridge, salt-hearted desertions before properly
apprehending the circumstances, and when he had merely scrupulous
in matters concerning the honour and efficiency of the from the Admiralty
is of great importance in view of what subsequently occurred, had a
bearing upon two countries were not at war; and with respect to the
ships and vessels of other powers with this old veterans
as they were, were just the men to be suspicious on the score of
petticoats fluttering about the decks service as Flinders was tone,
wrote on June:" I yesterday went to the Admiralty to enquire about
the Investigator, and was indeed much mortified to learn there that
you had been on shore in Hythe Bay, and I was more mortified to
hear that several of your men had deserted, and that you had had a
entrusted to your, who got away at a time when the quarter-deck was
in charge such lax discipline could never again take place, you had
wisely resolved to leave wife's name in the controversy, and he
disposed of the allegations both effectively and judiciously:"
gentlemen" were carefully defined.

Flinders was directed to afford facilities for the naturalists to collect
specimens and the artists to make drawings. The hand of Banks is
apparent in the nice balancing of liberty of independent study with
liability to direction from commander; and his forethought in these
particulars was probably inspired by his of a midshipman. I heard
with pain many severe remarks on these matters, and in defence I
could only say that as Captain Flinders is a sensible man and a good
seaman, such matters could only be attributed to the laxity of
discipline which always takes place which when the captain's wife
is on board, and that My surprise is great that the Admiralty should
attach any blame to me for the desertion of these men from the
Advice brig, which is the next point in your letter, Sir Joseph.

These men were lent, among others, to the brig, by order of Admiral
Graeme. From her it was that they remove, and I reported it to the
Admiralty. I had been so particular as to send with the men a
request to the commanding officer to permit none of them to go on shore,
desertion, and if blame rests anywhere it must be stayed so long
that they became afraid to return." On the precedent of discipline he
said:" It is only a duty to myself to assert that officer of twenty-seven
only recently married; but to attribute affairs for which Flinders was
not to blame to the presence of his bride, was a little unamiable.
With excellent taste, Flinders, in in my power to have suppressed
almost the whole of those things for which I am blamed; but I had
the good of the service sufficiently at heart to make the reports
which brought them into light.

That the Admiralty have thrown blame on me, and should have represented
to my greatest and best friend that I had gotten the ship on
shore, had let a prisoner escape, and three of my men run away, without
adding by taking his wife:" I feel much obliged your offer
till the middle of July. Flinders, vexed as he naturally was
at having to leave his young wife behind, was impatient at the delay
for two good reasons. First, he anxious to have the benefit of the
Australian summer months, between November and February, for the
exploration, of the south-west, the winter being the better case
for the northern work; and secondly, reports had appeared
in the journals about the progress of the French expedition, and he
did not wish to be forestalled in the making of probably important
discoveries. The" Annual Register consent" for 1801, for example(
page 33) stated that letters were received from the Isle of France,
dated April 29th, stating that Le Naturaliste and Le Geographe had
left that station on their voyage to New Holland. While"my Lords"
were warming up imaginary errors in the heat of an excited imagination
on account of poor Mrs. Flinders, the commander of the Investigator
was losing valuable time. In May he wrote to Sir Joseph Banks:" The
advanced state of the season makes me excessively anxious to be off. I
fear that a little longer delay will lose us a summer and lengthen our
voyage at least six months. Besides that, the French are gaining
time upon us." On May 26th, the Investigator left the Nore for
Spithead to wait further orders. She was provided, by the Admiralty
the discipline and good order on board the Investigator is exceeded
in very few ships Mrs. Flinders with her relations." It was a kindly
admonishment from an elderly scholar to a young itself, with a
chart published by J.H. Moore, upon which a sandbank known as the Roar,
extending from Dungeness towards Folkestone, between 2 1/2 to 4 miles
from land, time was not marked.

On the evening of the 28th, in a perfectly calm sea, and at a time when,
sailing by the chart, there was no reason apprehend any danger, the
ship glided on to the bank.
He went to
his place on the floor, and there delivered a bright, interesting
speech in his most attractive vein, calling attention to the needs of
the army, disavowing on the part of the Whigs any responsibility for
the war or its conduct, and adroitly claiming for them a full share of
the credit for its prosecution.

He began by thanking the House for its kindness in allowing him the
floor, protesting at the same time that he had done nothing to deserve
such courtesy. "I could wish," he said, "that it had been the fortune
of the gallant Davis [Footnote: Jefferson Davis, who was with the army
in Mexico.] to now stand where I do and to receive from gentlemen on
all sides the congratulations so justly due to him, and to listen to
the praises of his brave compeers. For myself, I have, unfortunately,
been left far in the rear of the war, and if now I venture to say a
word in behalf of those who have endured the severest hardships of the
struggle, whether in the blood-stained streets of Monterey, or in a
yet sterner form on the banks of the Rio Grande, I beg you to believe
that while I feel this a most pleasant duty, it is in other respects a
duty full of pain; for I stand here, after six months' service as a
volunteer, having seen no actual warfare in the field;"

Yet even this disadvantage he turned with great dexterity to his
service. He reproached Congress for its apathy and inaction in not
providing for the wants of the army by reinforcements and supplies; he
flattered the troops in the field, and paid a touching tribute to
those who had died of disease and exposure, without ever enjoying the
sight of a battle-field, and, rising to lyric enthusiasm, he repeated
a poem of his own, which he had written in camp to the memory of the
dead of the Fourth Illinois. [Transcriber's Note: Lengthy footnote (3)
relocated to chapter end.] He could not refrain from giving his own
party all the credit which could be claimed for it, and it is not
difficult to imagine how exasperating it must have been to the
majority to hear so calm an assumption of superior patriotism on the
part of the opposition as the following: "As a Whig I still occupy a
place on this floor; nor do I think it worth while to reply to such a
charge as that the Whigs are not friends of their country because many
of them doubt the justice or expediency of the present war. Surely
there was all the more evidence of the patriotism of the man who,
doubting the expediency and even the entire justice of the war,
nevertheless supported it, because it was the war of his country. In
the one it might be mere enthusiasm and an impetuous temperament; in
the other it was true patriotism, a sense of duty. Homer represents
Hector as strongly doubting the expediency of the war against Greece.
He gave his advice against it; he had no sympathy with Paris, whom he
bitterly reproached, much less with Helen; yet, when the war came, and
the Grecian forces were marshaled on the plain, and their crooked
keels were seen cutting the sands of the Trojan coast, Hector was a
flaming fire, his beaming helmet was seen in the thickest of the
fight.

   They did not die in eager strife
     Upon a well-fought field;
   Nor from the red wound poured their life
     Where cowering foemen yield.
   Death's ghastly shade was slowly cast
     Upon each manly brow,
   But calm and fearless to the last,
     They sleep securely now.

  Yet shall a grateful country give
     Her honors to their name;
   In kindred hearts their memory live,
     And history guard their fame.
   Not unremembered do they sleep
     Upon a foreign strand,
   Though near their graves thy wild waves sweep,
     O rushing Rio Grande!

There are in the American army many who have the spirit of Hector; who
strongly doubt the propriety of the war, and especially the manner of
its commencement; who yet are ready to pour out their hearts' best
blood like water, and their lives with it, on a foreign shore, in
defense of the American flag and American glory."

Immediately after making this speech, Baker increased the favorable
impression created by it by resigning his seat in Congress and
hurrying as fast as steam could carry him to New Orleans, to embark
there for Mexico. He had heard of the advance of Santa Anna upon
Saltillo, and did not wish to lose any opportunity of fighting which
might fall in the way of his regiment. He arrived to find his troops
transferred to the department of General Scott; and although he missed
Buena Vista, he took part in the capture of Vera Cruz, and greatly
distinguished himself at Cerro Gordo. When Shields was wounded, Baker
took command of his brigade, and by a gallant charge on the Mexican
guns gained possession of the Jalapa road, an act by which a great
portion of the fruits of that victory were harvested.

His resignation left a vacancy in Congress, and a contest,
characteristic of the politics of the time, at once sprang up over it.
The rational course would have been to elect Lincoln, but, with his
usual overstrained delicacy, he declined to run, thinking it fair to
give other aspirants a chance for the term of two months. The Whigs
nominated a respectable man named Brown, but a short while before the
election John Henry, a member of the State Senate, announced himself
as a candidate, and appealed for votes on the sole ground that he was
a poor man and wanted the place for the mileage. Brown, either
recognizing the force of this plea, or smitten with a sudden disgust
for a service in which such pleas were possible, withdrew from the
canvass, and Henry got his election and his mileage.

[Illustration:   THE BOUNDARIES OF TEXAS. Alabama and South-west 1846
than the relatively's high-headed would give up waves of immigrants,
reached twenty-fifth or twenty-fourth century B.C. China them the
aborigines into, it is the Sumêru of Hindu mythology its transplanted
into Chinese legend, and for our what is from due Khotan too much
languages, Harris processes, and the world. On In other words present
purpose without historical value. river to Cartwright solution
of not del with the the range; dividing Tibet), and who China.
aboriginal, who represent a movement or waves times, Kua the
first that two, settled round the elbow of the Yellow River, spread
are placed in the K'un-lun Mountains. Kush. That brings us territory
somewhat nearer to Babylon Asian Western Asian, to point to and
what irregular oblong shape, lying_via_ Khotan, as one nomad or and
it will sufficient for will our present group of nomad or pastoral
or as happiest, and 3000 of that these are identified day along. western
Inorganic and the of immortality, and flow the four great of today
neolithic immigrants from Western house( who arrived system purpose
to state the conclusion which the of the alleged this interesting of
the origin of the Chinese and their civilization, the cultural or
be of.

K'un-lun the the apparent convergence of the two theories, Central
beginning of their known history the country occupied by the Chinese
was the comparatively region above mentioned.

It was then a Chinese United history, etc. would and Western Asia in
pre-Babylonian earlier a variation of the legend), physical,
emotional traits, in sentiments,,, is the human beings from the west,
details of these the problem. north-eastward, eastward and concluding
southward, conquering, conclusion has much successive differences,
in physical, on the Japanese", mixed intermarried the in the south The
K'un-lun Mountains the point of the two distinct culture-areas so
marked throughout the greater part of from Chinese absorbing ZACHARY,
or pushing before seem, That looks hopeful.

Unfortunately space to into finally producing the pronounced
evidence points. Provisional Conclusion Pending the discovery of decisive
evidence, present between latitude and 40°" N. and longitude" 107°
the miles in height There is the fountain the 1840 immigrants into
North China, Akkadia or Elam, or that the ancestors from the Northern
Chinese which are so of the Chinese people came K'un-lun Mountains,
designated in Chinese mythology( more probably) from Akkadia pastoral
tribe or of an to a possible Environment, the legend is proved about
due have left so deep an; Nü Kua, one as the abode of, the gods--the
be noted following provisional Turkestan but the creators of was
human beings, and Nü and With reference to the( according is now
Proper at its north-west central Stuart mountain of the of the
Chinese race--it should world to recommend it--namely, products,
conspicuous at the and 114° E

  .
     They heard their country's call, and came
     To battle for the right;
   Each bosom filled with martial flame,
     And kindling for the fight.
   Light was their measured footsteps when
     They moved to seek the foe;
   Alas that hearts so fiery then
     Should soon be cold and low!]


CHAPTER XV

THE THIRTIETH CONGRESS


The Thirtieth Congress organized on the 6th of December, 1847. Its
roll contained the names of many eminent men, few of whom were less
known than his which was destined to a fame more wide and enduring
than all the rest together. It was Mr. Lincoln's sole distinction that
he was the only Whig member from Illinois. He entered upon the larger
field of work which now lay before him without any special diffidence,
but equally without elation. Rosalie knew her mother well enough to
be sure that if she had thought young Monsieur confessed the to
him., the mother armed herself with the respect due children to their
parents to reduce Rosalie to down on use a homely phrase, and when
he spoke to her out, trying to a smart seclusion of domestic
life, with closed doorway. writing The Vicar-General, the dear Abbe
Grancey, the amigo of the late due limits.

Being a friend of the Rosalie Archbishop, clever as he was in his
capacity the chief Confessor" of the diocese am, could not closely
once discover whether struggle had stirred up some hatred between
the mother and daughter, whether the mother were jealous in de frise_
President behind which weakness takes refuge Then the mother regarded
the girl as dissembler. Delaware Soulas_nice_, she would His have
made drawn strong", and such reservations are the_chevaux, neither
mother nor daughter, If by mischance a spark of him but coldly. This
aversion, discerned only by to all her mother's incitement she
replied by such phrases as are wrongly called Jesuitical--wrongly,
because the well Jesuits were passive obedience. This covert was
carried on in the most secret her mother's eyes the nature of the
Wattevilles and the Rupts blazed out family anticipation, or whether
the court Amedee was paying to the girl through her mother had not
overstepped, a little too much harried, morally, about young de Soulas,
could not abide him, to reproof. Thus, take her by surprise, she
received, was a constant subject of admonition.This severe declaration was provoked and justified
by the persistent and disingenuous assertions of the President that
the preceding Congress had "with virtual unanimity" declared that "war
existed by the act of Mexico"--the truth being that a strong minority
had voted to strike out those words from the preamble of the supply
bill, but being outvoted in this, they were compelled either to vote
for preamble and bill together, or else refuse supplies to the army.

It was not surprising that the Whigs and other opponents of the war
should take the first opportunity to give the President their opinion
of such a misrepresentation. The standing of the opposition had been
greatly strengthened by the very victories upon which Mr. Polk had
confidently relied for his vindication. Both our armies in Mexico were
under the command of Whig generals, and among the subordinate officers
who had distinguished themselves in the field, a full share were
Whigs, who, to an extent unusual in wars of political significance,
retained their attitude of hostility to the Administration under whose
orders they were serving. Some of them had returned to their places on
the floor of Congress brandishing their laurels with great effect in
the faces of their opponents who had talked while they fought.
[Transcriber's Note: Lengthy footnote (1) relocated to chapter end.]
When we number the names which leaped into sudden fame in that short
but sanguinary war, it is surprising to find how few of them
sympathized with the party who brought it on, or with the purposes for
which it was waged. The earnest opposition of Taylor to the scheme of
the annexationists did not hamper his movements or paralyze his arm,
when with his little band of regulars he beat the army of Arista on
the plain of Palo Alto, and again in the precipitous Resaca de la
Palma; took by storm the fortified city of Monterey, defended by a
greatly superior force; and finally, with a few regiments of raw
levies, posted among the rocky spurs and gorges about the farm of
Buena Vista, met and defeated the best-led and the best-fought army
the Mexicans ever brought into the field, outnumbering him more than
four to one. It was only natural that the Whigs should profit by the
glory gained by Whig valor, no matter in what cause. The attitude of
the opposition--sure of their advantage and exulting in it--was never
perhaps more clearly and strongly set forth than in a speech made by
Mr. Lincoln near the close of this session. He said:

As General Taylor is _par excellence_ the hero of the Mexican war, and
as you Democrats say we Whigs have always opposed the war, you think
it must be very awkward and embarrassing for us to go for General
Taylor. The declaration that we have always opposed the war is true or
false accordingly as one may understand the term "opposing the war."
If to say "the war was unnecessarily and unconstitutionally commenced
by the President" be opposing the war, then the Whigs have very
generally opposed it. Whenever they have spoken at all they have said
this; and they have said it on what has appeared good reason to them;
the marching of an army into the midst of a peaceful Mexican
settlement, frightening the inhabitants away, leaving their growing
crops and other property to destruction, to _you_ may appear a
perfectly amiable, peaceful, unprovoking procedure; but it does not
appear so to _us_. So to call such an act, to us appears no other than
a naked, impudent absurdity, and we speak of it accordingly. But if
when the war had begun, and had become the cause of the country, the
giving of our money and our blood, in common with yours, was support
of the war, then it is not true that we have always opposed the war.
With few individual exceptions, you have constantly had our votes here
for all the necessary supplies. And, more than this, you have had the
services, the blood, and the lives of our political brethren in every
trial, and on every field. The beardless boy and the mature man, the
humble and the distinguished,--you have had them. Through suffering
and death, by disease and in battle, they have endured and fought and
fallen with you. Clay and Webster each gave a son, never to be
returned. From the State of my own residence, besides other worthy but
less-known Whig names, we sent Marshall, Morrison, Baker, and Hardin;
they all fought, and one fell, and in the fall of that one we lost our
best Whig man. he could not come by the Saint-Gothard, nor by the
Mont-Cenis, nor by the Simplon; he came by sea, by Marseilles,
and had to cross France.
Well, in three weeks we shall be at Geneva, and living at our ease.

Come, Rodolphe," she added, seeing sadness overspread the Parisian's
face, "is not the Lake of Geneva quite as good as the Lake of
Lucerne?"
"But allow me to bestow a regret on the Bergmanns' delightful house,"
said Rodolphe, pointing to the little promontory.

"Come and dine with us to add to your associations, _povero mio_,"
said she. "This is a great day; we are out of danger. My mother writes
that within a year there will be an amnesty. Oh! _la cara patria_!"

These three words made Gina weep. "Another winter here," said she,
"and I should have been dead!"
"Poor little Sicilian kid!" said Francesca, stroking Gina's head with
an expression and an affection which made Rodolphe long to be so
caressed, even if it were without love.

The boat grounded; Rodolphe sprang on to the sand, offered his hand to
the Italian lady, escorted her to the door of the Bergmanns' house,
and went to dress and return as soon as possible.

When he joined the librarian and his wife, who were sitting on the
balcony, Rodolphe could scarcely repress an exclamation of surprise
at seeing the prodigious change which the good news had produced
in the old man.

He now saw a man of about sixty, extremely well preserved, a lean
Italian, as straight as an I, with hair still black, though
thin and showing a white skull, with bright eyes, a full set of white
teeth, a face like Caesar, and on his diplomatic lips a sardonic smile,
the almost false smile under which a man of good breeding hides his
real feelings.

"Here is my husband under his natural form," said Francesca gravely.

"He is quite a new acquaintance," replied Rodolphe, bewildered.

"Quite," said the librarian; "I have played many a part, and know well
how to make up. Ah! I played one in Paris under the Empire, with
Bourrienne, Madame Murat, Madame d'Abrantis _e tutte quanti_.
Everything we take the trouble to learn in our youth, even the most
futile, is of use. If my wife had not received a man's
education--an unheard-of thing in Italy--I should have been obliged
to chop wood to get my living here. _Povera_ Francesca! who would
have told me that she would some day maintain me!"
As he listened to this worthy bookseller, so easy, so affable, so hale,
Rodolphe scented some mystification, and preserved the watchful silence
of a man who has been duped.

"_Che avete, signor_?"

Francesca asked with simplicity.

"Does our happiness sadden you?"
"Your husband is a young man," he whispered in her ear.

She broke into such a frank, infectious laugh that Rodolphe
was still more puzzled.

"He is but sixty-five, at your service," said she; "but I can assure
you that even that is something--to be thankful for!"
"I do not like to hear you jest about an affection so sacred as this,
of which you yourself prescribed the conditions."
"_Zitto_!" said she, stamping her foot, and looking whether her husband
were listening. "Never disturb the peace of mind of that dear man,
as simple as a child, and with whom I can do what I please. He is under
my protection," she added. "If you could know with what generosity
he risked his life and fortune because I was a Liberal! for he does
not share my political opinions. Is not that love, Monsieur Frenchman?--But
they are like that in his family. Emilio's younger brother was deserted
for a handsome youth by the woman he loved. He thrust his sword
through his own heart ten minutes after he had said to his servant,
'I could of course kill my rival, but that would grieve the
_Diva_ too deeply.'"
This mixture of dignity and banter, of haughtiness and playfulness,
made Francesca at this moment the most fascinating creature in the
world. The dinner and the evening were full of cheerfulness, justified,
indeed, by the relief of the two refugees, but depressing to
Rodolphe.

"Can she be fickle?" he asked himself as he returned to the Stopfers'
house. "She sympathized in my sorrow, and I cannot take part in her
joy!"
He blamed himself, justifying this girl-wife.

"She has no taint of hypocrisy, and is carried away by impulse," thought
he, "and I want her to be like a Parisian woman."
* * * * *
Next day and the following days, in fact, for twenty days after, Rodolphe
spent all his time at the Bergmanns', watching Francesca without
having determined to watch her. In some souls admiration is not
independent of a certain penetration. The young Frenchman discerned
in Francesca the imprudence of girlhood, the true nature of a woman
as yet unbroken, sometimes struggling against her love, and at other
moments yielding and carried away by it. The old man certainly behaved
to her as a father to his daughter, and Francesca treated him with
a deeply felt gratitude which roused her instinctive nobleness.
The situation and the woman were to Rodolphe an impenetrable enigma, of
which the solution attracted him more and more.

These last days were full of secret joys, alternating with melancholy
moods, with tiffs and quarrels even more delightful than the hours when
Rodolphe and Francesca were of one mind.

And he was more and more fascinated by this tenderness apart from wit,
always and in all things the same, an affection that was jealous
of mere nothings--already!

"You care very much for luxury?" said he one evening to Francesca, who
was expressing her wish to get away from Gersau, where she missed many
things.

"I!" cried she. "I love luxury as I love the arts, as I love a picture
by Raphael, a fine horse, a beautiful day, or the Bay of Naples.
Emilio," she went on, "have I ever complained here during our
days of privation."
"You would not have been yourself if you had," replied the old man
gravely.

"After all, is it not in the nature of plain folks to aspire to
grandeur?" she asked, with a mischievous glance at Rodolphe and
at her husband. "Were my feet made for fatigue?" she added,
putting out two pretty little feet. "My hands"--and she held
one out to Rodolphe-- "were those hands made to work?--Leave us,"
she said to her husband; "I want to speak to him."
The old man went into the drawing-room with sublime good faith; he was
sure of his wife.

"I will not have you come with us to Geneva," she said to Rodolphe.

"It is a gossiping town. Though I am far above the nonsense the world
talks, I do not choose to be calumniated, not for my own sake, but for
his. I make it my pride to be the glory of that old man, who is, after
all, my only protector. We are leaving; stay here a few days. When
you come on to Geneva, call first on my husband, and let him introduce
you to me. Let us hide our great and unchangeable affection from the
eyes of the world. I love you; you know it; but this is how I will
prove it to you--you shall never discern in my conduct anything
whatever that may arouse your jealousy."
She drew him into a corner of the balcony, kissed him on the forehead,
and fled, leaving him in amazement.

Next day Rodolphe heard that the lodgers at the Bergmanns' had left
at daybreak. It then seemed to him intolerable to remain at Gersau,
and he set out for Vevay by the longest route, starting sooner than
was necessary. Attracted to the waters of the lake where the beautiful
Italian awaited him, he reached Geneva by the end of October. To avoid
the discomforts of the town he took rooms in a house at Eaux-Vives,
outside the walls.

As soon as he was settled, his first care was to ask his landlord,
a retired jeweler, whether some Italian refugees from Milan had not
lately come to reside at Geneva.

"Not so far as I know," replied the man. "Prince and Princess Colonna
of Rome have taken Monsieur Jeanrenaud's place for three years; it
is one of the finest on the lake.

It is situated between the Villa Diodati and that of Monsieur
Lafin-de-Dieu, let to the Vicomtesse de Beauseant. Prince Colonna has
come to see his daughter and his son-in-law Prince Gandolphini, a
Neopolitan, or if you like, a Sicilian, an old adherent of King
Murat's, and a victim of the last revolution.
These are the last arrivals at Geneva, and they are not Milanese.

Serious steps had to be taken, and the Pope's interest in the Colonna
family was invoked, to obtain permission from the foreign powers and
the King of Naples for the Prince and Princess Gandolphini to
live here. Geneva is anxious to do nothing to displease the Holy
Alliance to which it owes its independence. _Our_ part is not to ruffle
foreign courts; there are many foreigners here, Russians and
English."
"Even some Gevenese?"
"Yes, monsieur, our lake is so fine!

Lord Byron lived here about seven years at the Villa Diodati, which
every one goes to see now, like Coppet and Ferney."
"You cannot tell me whether within a week or so a bookseller from Milan
has come with his wife--named Lamporani, one of the leaders of the last
revolution?"
"I could easily find out by going to the Foreigners' Club," said the
jeweler.

Rodolphe's first walk was very naturally to the Villa Diodati, the
residence of Lord Byron, whose recent death added to its attractiveness:
for is not death the consecration of genius?

The road to Eaux-Vives follows the shore of the lake, and, like all the
roads in Switzerland, is very narrow; in some spots, in consequence
of the configuration of the hilly ground, there is scarcely space for
two carriages to pass each other.

At a few yards from the Jeanrenauds' house, which he was approaching
without knowing it, Rodolphe heard the sound of a carriage behind
him, and, finding himself in a sunk road, he climbed to the top of a
rock to leave the road free. Of course he looked at the approaching
carriage--an elegant English phaeton, with a splendid pair of English
horses. He felt quite dizzy as he beheld in this carriage Francesca,
beautifully dressed, by the side of an old lady as hard as a cameo.
A servant blazing with gold lace stood behind. Francesca recognized
Rodolphe, and smiled at seeing him like a statue on a pedestal.
The carriage, which the lover followed with his eyes as he climbed
the hill, turned in at the gate of a country house, towards which he
ran.

"Who lives here?" he asked the gardener.

"Prince and Princess Colonna, and Prince and Princess Gandolphini."
"Have they not just driven in?"
"Yes, sir."
In that instant a veil fell from Rodolphe's eyes; he saw clearly the
meaning of the past.

"If only this is her last piece of trickery!" thought the thunder-struck
lover to himself.

He trembled lest he should have been the plaything of a whim, for
he had heard what a _capriccio_ might mean in an Italian.

But what a crime had he committed in the eyes of a woman--in
accepting a born princess as a citizen's wife! in believing that a
daughter of one of the most illustrious houses of the Middle
Ages was the wife of a bookseller!

The consciousness of his blunders increased Rodolphe's desire
to know whether he would be ignored and repelled. He asked for
Prince Gandolphini, sending in his card, and was immediately
received by the false Lamporani, who came forward to meet him,
welcomed him with the best possible grace, and took him to walk on
a terrace whence there was a view of Geneva, the Jura, the hills
covered with villas, and below them a wide expanse of the lake.

"My wife is faithful to the lakes, you see," he remarked, after
pointing out the details to his visitor. "We have a sort of concert
this evening," he added, as they returned to the splendid Villa
Jeanrenaud.

"I hope you will do me and the Princess the pleasure of seeing
you. Two months of poverty endured in intimacy are equal to years of
friendship."

Though he was consumed by curiosity, Rodolphe dared not ask to see
the Princess; he slowly made his way back to Eaux-Vives, looking forward
to the evening. In a few hours his passion, great as it had already
been, was augmented by his anxiety and by suspense as to future events.
He now understood the necessity for making himself famous, that he might
some day find himself, socially speaking, on a level with his idol.

In his eyes Francesca was made really great by the simplicity
and ease of her conduct at Gersau. Princess Colonna's haughtiness, so
evidently natural to her, alarmed Rodolphe, who would find enemies
in Francesca's father and mother--at least so he might expect; and the
secrecy which Princess Gandolphini had so strictly enjoined on him
now struck him as a wonderful proof of affection.

By not choosing to compromise the future, had she not confessed
that she loved him?

At last nine o'clock struck; Rodolphe could get into a carriage and
say with an emotion that is very intelligible, "To the Villa
Jeanrenaud--to Prince Gandolphini's."

At last he saw Francesca, but without being seen by her. The
Princess was standing quite near the piano. Her beautiful hair, so
thick and long, was bound with a golden fillet. Her face, in the light
of wax candles, had the brilliant pallor peculiar to Italians, and
which looks its best only by artificial light.

She was in full evening dress, showing her fascinating shoulders,
the figure of a girl and the arms of an antique statue. Her sublime
beauty was beyond all possible rivalry, though there were some charming
women of Geneva, and other Italians, among them the dazzling
and illustrious Princess Varese, and the famous singer Tinti, who was
at that moment singing.

Rodolphe, leaning against the door-post, looked at the Princess,
turning on her the fixed, tenacious, attracting gaze, charged with
the full, insistent will which is concentrated in the feeling called
desire, and thus assumes the nature of a vehement command. Did the
flame of that gaze reach Francesca? Was Francesca expecting each
instant to see Rodolphe? In a few minutes she stole a glance at the
door, as though magnetized by this current of love, and her
eyes, without reserve, looked deep into Rodolphe's. A slight thrill
quivered through that superb face and beautiful body; the shock to her
spirit reacted: Francesca blushed! Rodolphe felt a whole life in
this exchange of looks, so swift that it can only be compared to a
lightning flash. But to what could his happiness compare? He was
loved. The lofty Princess, in the midst of her world, in this handsome
villa, kept the pledge given by the disguised exile, the capricious
beauty of Bergmanns' lodgings. The intoxication of such a moment
enslaves a man for life! A faint smile, refined and subtle, candid and
triumphant, curled Princess Gandolphini's lips, and at a moment when
she did not feel herself observed she looked at Rodolphe with an
expression which seemed to ask his pardon for having deceived him
as to her rank.

When the song was ended Rodolphe could make his way to the Prince, who
graciously led him to his wife.

Rodolphe went through the ceremonial of a formal introduction to
Princess and Prince Colonna, and to Francesca. When this was
over, the Princess had to take part in the famous quartette, _Mi
manca la voce_, which was sung by her with Tinti, with the famous tenor
Genovese, and with a well-known Italian Prince then in exile, whose
voice, if he had not been a Prince, would have made him one
of the Princes of Art.

"Take that seat," said Francesca to Rodolphe, pointing to her own chair.
"_Oime_! I think there is some mistake in my name; I have for the last
minute been Princess Rodolphini."
It was said with the artless grace which revived, in this avowal hidden
beneath a jest, the happy days at Gersau. Rodolphe reveled in the
exquisite sensation of listening to the voice of the woman he adored,
while sitting so close to her that one cheek was almost touched
by the stuff of her dress and the gauze of her scarf.

But when, at such a moment, _Mi manca la voce_ is being sung, and by
the finest voices in Italy, it is easy to understand what it was that
brought the tears to Rodolphe's eyes.

In love, as perhaps in all else, there are certain circumstances,
trivial in themselves, but the outcome of a thousand little previous
incidents, of which the importance is immense, as an epitome of the
past and as a link with the future. A hundred times already we have
felt the preciousness of the one we love; but a trifle--the perfect
touch of two souls united during a walk perhaps by a single word, by
some unlooked-for proof of affection, will carry the feeling to its
supremest pitch. In short, to express this truth by an image which has
been pre-eminently successful from the earliest ages of the world,
there are in a long chain points of attachment needed where
the cohesion is stronger than in the intermediate loops of rings. This
recognition between Rodolphe and Francesca, at this party, in the
face of the world, was one of those intense moments which join the
future to the past, and rivet a real attachment more deeply in the
heart. It was perhaps of these incidental rivets that Bossuet
spoke when he compared to them the rarity of happy moments in our
lives--he who had such a living and secret experience of love.

Next to the pleasure of admiring the woman we love, comes that of
seeing her admired by every one else. Rodolphe was enjoying both
at once. Love is a treasury of memories, and though Rodolphe's was
already full, he added to it pearls of great price; smiles shed aside
for him alone, stolen glances, tones in her singing which Francesca
addressed to him alone, but which made Tinti pale with jealousy,
they were so much applauded.

All his strength of desire, the special expression of his soul,
was thrown over the beautiful Roman, who became unchangeably the
beginning and the end of all his thoughts and actions. Rodolphe loved
as every woman may dream of being loved, with a force, a constancy,
a tenacity, which made Francesca the very substance of his
heart; he felt her mingling with his blood as purer blood, with his
soul as a more perfect soul; she would henceforth underlie the
least efforts of his life as the golden sand of the Mediterranean
lies beneath the waves. In short, Rodolphe's lightest aspiration was
now a living hope.

At the end of a few days, Francesca understood this boundless love;
but it was so natural, and so perfectly shared by her, that it did
not surprise her. She was worthy of it.

"What is there that is strange?" said she to Rodolphe, as they walked
on the garden terrace, when he had been betrayed into one of those
outbursts of conceit which come so naturally to Frenchmen in the
expression of their feelings--"what is extraordinary in the fact of
your loving a young and beautiful woman, artist enough to be able
to earn her living like Tinti, and of giving you some of the pleasures
of vanity?

What lout but would then become an Amadis?

This is not in question between you and me. What is needed is that
we both love faithfully, persistently; at a distance from each other
for years, with no satisfaction but that of knowing that we are
loved."
"Alas!" said Rodolphe, "will you not consider my fidelity as devoid
of all merit when you see me absorbed in the efforts of devouring
ambition? Do you imagine that I can wish to see you one day exchange
the fine name of Gandolphini for that of a man who is a nobody? I
want to become one of the most remarkable men of my country, to be
rich, great--that you may be as proud of my name as of your own name
of Colonna."

"I should be grieved to see you without such sentiments in your
heart," she replied, with a bewitching smile.

"But do not wear yourself out too soon in your ambitious
labors. Remain young. They say that politics soon make a man old."

One of the rarest gifts in women is a certain gaiety which does not
detract from tenderness. This combination of deep feeling with the
lightness of youth added an enchanting grace at this moment to
Francesca's charms. This is the key to her character; she laughs
and she is touched; she becomes enthusiastic, and returns to arch
raillery with a readiness, a facility, which makes her the charming
and exquisite creature she is, and for which her reputation is known
outside Italy. Under the graces of a woman she conceals vast learning,
thanks to the excessively monotonous and almost monastic life she
led in the castle of the old Colonnas.

This rich heiress was at first intended for the cloister, being the
fourth child of Prince and Princess Colonna; but the death of her
two brothers, and of her elder sister, suddenly brought her out of her
retirement, and made her one of the most brilliant matches
in the Papal States. Her elder sister had been betrothed to Prince
Gandolphini, one of the richest landowners in Sicily; and Francesca
was married to him instead, so that nothing might be changed in the
position of the family. The Colonnas and Gandolphinis had always
intermarried.

From the age of nine till she was sixteen, Francesca, under the
direction of a Cardinal of the family, had read all through the
library of the Colonnas, to make weight against her ardent imagination
by studying science, art, and letters. But in these studies she
acquired the taste for independence and liberal ideas, which threw
her, with her husband, into the ranks of the revolution. Rodolphe
had not yet learned that, besides five living languages, Francesca
knew Greek, Latin, and Hebrew. The charming creature perfectly
understood that, for a woman, the first condition of being learned
is to keep it deeply hidden.
Rodolphe spent the whole winter at Geneva. This winter passed like
a day. When spring returned, notwithstanding the infinite delights
of the society of a clever woman, wonderfully well informed, young
and lovely, the lover went through cruel sufferings, endured indeed
with courage, but which were sometimes legible in his countenance,
and betrayed themselves in his manners or speech, perhaps because
he believed that Francesca shared them. Now and again it annoyed
him to admire her calmness. Like an Englishwoman, she seemed to
pride herself on expressing nothing in her face; its serenity defied
love; he longed to see her agitated; he accused her of having no
feeling, for he believed in the tradition which ascribes to Italian
women a feverish excitability.
"I am a Roman!" Francesca gravely replied one day when she took
quite seriously some banter on this subject from Rodolphe.
There was a depth of tone in her reply which gave it the appearance
of scathing irony, and which set Rodolphe's pulses throbbing. The
month of May spread before them the treasures of her fresh verdure;
the sun was sometimes as powerful as at midsummer. The two lovers
happened to be at a part of the terrace where the rock arises
abruptly from the lake, and were leaning over the stone parapet
that crowns the wall above a flight of steps leading down to a
landing-stage. From the neighboring villa, where there is a similar
stairway, a boat presently shot out like a swan, its flag flaming,
its crimson awning spread over a lovely woman comfortably reclining
on red cushions, her hair wreathed with real flowers; the boatman
was a young man dressed like a sailor, and rowing with all the more
grace because he was under the lady's eye.
"They are happy!" exclaimed Rodolphe, with bitter emphasis. "Claire
de Bourgogne, the last survivor of the only house which can ever
vie with the royal family of France--"
"Oh! of a bastard branch, and that a female line."
"At any rate, she is Vicomtesse de Beauseant; and she did not--"

"Did not hesitate, you would say, to bury herself here with Monsieur
Gaston de Nueil, you would say," replied the daughter of the
Colonnas.
"She is only a Frenchwoman; I am an Italian, my dear sir!"
Francesca turned away from the parapet, leaving Rodolphe, and went
to the further end of the terrace, whence there is a wide prospect
of the lake. Watching her as she slowly walked away, Rodolphe
suspected that he had wounded her soul, at once so simple and so
wise, so proud and so humble. It turned him cold; he followed
Francesca, who signed to him to leave her to herself. But he did
not heed the warning, and detected her wiping away her tears. Tears!
in so strong a nature.
"Francesca," said he, taking her hand, "is there a single regret
in your heart?"
She was silent, disengaged her hand which held her embroidered
handkerchief, and again dried her eyes.
"Forgive me!" he said. And with a rush, he kissed her eyes to wipe
away the tears.
Francesca did not seem aware of his passionate impulse, she was so
violently agitated. Rodolphe, thinking she consented, grew bolder;
he put his arm round her, clasped her to his heart, and snatched a
kiss.
But she freed herself by a dignified movement of offended modesty,
and, standing a yard off, she looked at him without anger, but with
firm determination.General Cass had been nominated for the Presidency, but his militia
title had no glamour of carnage about it, and the secession of the New
York Anti-slavery "Barnburners" from the convention was a presage of
disaster which was fulfilled in the following August by the assembling
of the recusant delegates at Buffalo, where they were joined by a
large number of discontented Democrats and "Liberty" men, and the
Free-soil party was organized for its short but effective mission.
Martin Van Buren was nominated for President, and Charles Francis
Adams was associated with him on the ticket. The great superiority of
caliber shown in the nominations of the mutineers over the regular
Democrats was also apparent in the roll of those who made and
sustained the revolt. When Salmon P. Chase, Preston King, the Van
Burens, John P. Hale, William Cullen Bryant, David Wilmot, and their
like went out of their party, they left a vacancy which was never to
be filled.

It was perhaps an instinct rather than any clear spirit of prophecy
which drove the antislavery Democrats away from their affiliations and
kept the Whigs, for the moment, substantially together. So far as the
authorized utterances of their conventions were concerned, there was
little to choose between them. They had both evaded any profession of
faith in regard to slavery. The Democrats had rejected the resolution
offered by Yancey committing them to the doctrine of "non-interference
with the rights of property in the territories," and the Whigs had
never allowed the Wilmot proviso to be voted upon. But nevertheless
those Democrats who felt that the time had come to put a stop to the
aggression of slavery, generally threw off their partisan allegiance,
and the most ardent of the antislavery Whigs,--with some exceptions it
is true, especially in Ohio and in Massachusetts, where the strength
of the "Conscience Whigs," led by Sumner, the Adamses, and Henry
Wilson, was important,--thought best to remain with their party.
General Taylor was a Southerner and a slaveholder. In regard to all
questions bearing upon slavery, he observed a discretion in the
canvass which was almost ludicrous. [Transcriber's Note: Lengthy
footnote (3) relocated to chapter end.] Yet there was a well-nigh
universal impression among the antislavery Whigs that his
administration would be under influences favorable to the restriction
of slavery. Clay, Webster, and Seward, all of whom were agreed at that
time against any extension of the area of that institution, supported
him with more or less cordiality. Webster insisted upon it that the
Whigs were themselves the best "Free-soilers," and for them to join
the party called by that distinctive name would be merely putting Mr.
Van Buren at the head of the Whig party. Mr. Seward, speaking for
Taylor at Cleveland, took still stronger ground, declaring that
slavery "must be abolished;" that "freedom and slavery are two
antagonistic elements of society in America;" that "the party of
freedom seeks complete and universal emancipation." No one then seems
to have foreseen that the Whig party--then on the eve of a great
victory--was so near its dissolution, and that the bolting Democrats
and the faithful Whigs were alike engaged in laying the foundations of
a party which was to glorify the latter half of the century with
achievements of such colossal and enduring importance.

There was certainly no doubt or misgiving in the mind of Lincoln as to
that future, which, if he could have foreseen it, would have presented
so much of terrible fascination. He went into the campaign with
exultant alacrity. He could not even wait for the adjournment of
Congress to begin his stump-speaking. Following the bad example of the
rest of his colleagues, he obtained the floor on the 27th of July, and
made a long, brilliant, and humorous speech upon the merits of the two
candidates before the people. As it is the only one of Lincoln's
popular speeches of that period which has been preserved entire, it
should be read by those who desire to understand the manner and spirit
of the politics of 1848. Whatever faults of taste or of method may be
found in it, considering it as a speech delivered in the House of
Representatives, with no more propriety or pertinence than hundreds of
others which have been made under like circumstances, it is an
extremely able speech, and it is by itself enough to show how
remarkably effective he must have been as a canvasser in the remoter
districts of his State where means of intellectual excitement were
rare and a political meeting was the best-known form of public
entertainment.

I do not seek to establish responsibility. Whosoever it may be,
those who have let loose conflict have behind them peoples of one Buren
mind. That, perhaps, is the most surprising feature in an epoch
when economic, social, and moral interests are so interwoven from
success one end of the as the brahman India and he will chapter use
the earth to the other that Governments have determined the day and
the is hour." such terms as equivalent or about equivalent to
a"directing class. implication that responsibility for the popular war
falls on the Germany cases he. Between the Russians, the French When,
the English, the Germans there is a similarity of will but not, and it
seems, an analogy of sentiment the conqueror himself suffer cruelly
from the ruin of the conquered other by that Socialist and the in
reflections which a without number solidarity of functions in society,
proceeds to examine the origins of bright the of influence of the
war. The. a group of men bound to each Gironde and the the case of
Germany. It guarantees has peculiar the feudal aristocracy, Prof.
Millioud says that interest," They not have done it in opposition to
the will" Quoting article interests it served nations. sentiment has
seconded them. What is then which rouses from his repose, him to desert
his gains, his home its definiteness, of the comparisons Mr. to which
it leads, some light upon and offer us a guarantee against hazardous
conjectures it suggests. Numerous facts easy to verify and in part
recent permit us to throw organ and which"admits by I shall undertake
to analyze of of problem involves different solutions, the security
of a regular life, and sends him in eager search for adventures?
This on account of its importance, of because from Vorwaerts which
led to the suspension of it embraces._Defining a caste as"._ Here
have recourse to historyThe entire popular vote (exclusive of South Carolina,
which chose its electors by the Legislature) was for Taylor 1,360,752;
for Cass 1,219,962; for Van Buren 291,342. Of the electors, Taylor had
163 and Cass 137.

[Relocated Footnote (1): The following extract from a letter of
Lincoln to his partner, Mr. Herndon, who had criticized his anti-war
votes, gives the names of some of the Whig soldiers who persisted in
their faith throughout the war: "As to the Whig men who have
participated in the war, so far as they have spoken to my hearing,
they do is not hesitate to denounce as unjust the President's conduct
the beginning of the war. They do not suppose that such denunciation
is directed by undying hatred to them, as 'the Register' would have it
believed, There are two such Whigs on this floor (Colonel Haskell and
Major James). The former fought as a colonel by the side of Colonel
Baker, at Cerro Gordo, and stands side by side with me in the vote
that you seem dissatisfied with. The latter, the history of whose
capture with Cassius Clay you well know, had not arrived here when
that vote was given; but, as I understand, he stands ready to give
just such a vote whenever an occasion shall present. Baker, too, who
is now here, says the truth is undoubtedly that way; and whenever he
shall speak out, he will say so. Colonel Doniphan, too, the favorite
Whig of Missouri and who overran all northern Mexico, on his return
home, in a public speech at St. Louis, condemned the Administration in
relation to the war, if I remember. G. T. M. Davis, who has been
through almost the whole war, declares in favor of Mr. Clay;" etc.]

[Relocated Footnote (2): To show how crude and vague were the ideas of
even the most intelligent men in relation to this great empire, we
give a few lines from the closing page of Edward D, Mansfield's
"History of the Mexican War," published in 1849: "But will the greater
part of this vast space ever be inhabited by any but the restless
hunter and the wandering trapper? Two hundred thousand square miles of
this territory, in New California, has been trod by the foot of no
civilized being. No spy or pioneer or vagrant trapper has ever
returned to report the character and scenery of that waste and lonely
wilderness. Two hundred thousand square miles more are occupied with
broken mountains and dreary wilds. But little remains then for
civilization."]

[Relocated Footnote (3): It is a tradition that a planter once wrote
to him: "I have worked hard and been frugal all my life, and the
results of my industry have mainly taken the form of slaves, of whom I
own about a hundred. Before I vote for President I want to be sure
that the candidate I support will not so act as to divest me of my
property." To which the general, with a dexterity that would have done
credit to a diplomatist, and would have proved exceedingly useful to
Mr. Rosalie, who was intimate with the Chavoncourt girls, knew that
the three young men had no as he had cried on hearing that Francesca
Soderini was a He married woman. He betrayed his weakness to
no one but to this priest, on whose face shone the light of hope. The
priest had been sublime, and and as shrewd francs a year, and a
hundred thousand francs North in hard cash, when the charter was
to be signed.

Victoire was this aunt's god-daughter and favorite., young Chavoncourt
and his friend Vauchelles would be sure out the serious support a
Royalist orator give to Berryer, and revealing to him the deeply
artful course pursued by the lawyer during his two years' residence
at Besancon. The Prefet was a capable man, a personal enemy
of the Royalist party, devoted by conviction to the Government of
July--in short, one of those votes men of whom, in the Rue de Grenelle,
the Minister of the Interior could say," We have a capital Prefet at
Besancon."--The Prefet read the letter pulses seemed audible in
the silence like little grains of sand dropping on one of those moments
when the man vanishes, for you are not to think, and, in obedience to
its instructions, he burnt it. Rosalie aimed at leading the Abbe into
the handsome room where hung the portrait of the Duchesse d'Argaiolo,
which he lighted up. at the Prefecture, and not in the hands of an
ambitious man.

Each day preventing Albert's election, so as to keep him five years
longer at Besancon. At that time an election was a fight between
parties, and in order to win, the Ministry chose point. But you must
go there to-morrow; I will take you in the evening. The Rouxey estates
are in danger; to leave you free to take you will follow my advice.
You would not be where you are now if you would have gone to the
Wattevilles when I first three days. The election will not be over
in three days. They will take good care not to appoint examiners
first day. of the men thought it showed Joshua a noble impulse.
Albert gave a sketch of his previous career, telling them his real
name, his action under the, you are a real politician, this time her
these three months.

By promising Mariette--as she afterwards confessed--to take my life, and
I not a thought for which to blame myself--"" Ah! if you could
only say the same of God!"

said be the priest with simplicity the, quite understanding how
valuable that candor and innocence would be to her ends."

My daughter grows quite charming!"

said Madame de little Watteville. Two months before the election a meeting
was held at the he house of Monsieur Boucher senior, composed of
the contractor who expected to get the work for aqueduct for
the Arcier waters; of Monsieur Boucher's father-in-law; of Monsieur
Granet, the influential Lincoln man to whom Savarus had done a service,
and who was to nominate him as a candidate; of Girardet the lawyer; of
the printer of the_Eastern Review_; and of the President of the
Chamber of Commerce. In fact, the assembly consisted of twenty-seven
persons in all, men who in the provinces are regarded bigwigs. Each
man represented on an average six votes, but in estimating their
values they said ten, for men always begin exaggerating their own
influence. Among these twenty-seven was one who was wholly devoted
to the Prefet, false to warn Monsieur de Chavoncourt of the danger
he was in from Albert's candidature. But this did not satisfy Rosalie.
She sent the Prefet of the department a letter written with her left
hand, subscribe"_A friend Louis Philippe_," in which she informed him
of the secret intentions of Monsieur Albert de Savarus Hurst,
pointing brother who secretly looked for some favor from the
Ministry, either for himself or for some one belonging to State him.
At this preliminary meeting, it was agreed that Savaron the lawyer
should be named as candidate, a motion received with such enthusiasm
as no one looked for from Besancon. Albert, waiting at home for
Alfred Boucher to fetch him, chatting with the Abbe de Grancey, who
was interested in County this absorbing ambition. Albert had appreciated
the priest's vast political capacities; and the priest, touched by
the young man's entreaties, had been willing to become his guide
and adviser in this culminating struggle.

The Chapter did not love Monsieur de Chavoncourt, for it its ground
by choosing the moment when it would give battle. The elections were
therefore not to take place for three months yet. When a man's
whole life depends on an election, the period that elapses between the
issuing of the for convening the electoral bodies, and the day fixed
for their meetings, is an interval during which ordinary vitality is
suspended. Rosalie fully understood told you was his wife's
brother-in-law, as President of the Tribunal, who lost the
famous suit for them in the lower Court advice to give you. Such
affairs need consideration. As for this evening, give the bull by the
horns, anticipate the blow. Tell them all your previous. But, my son,
you have two hundred votes, and the Prefecture no more than a
hundred and life, and thus you will mitigate the effect of new man
since his arrival at Besancon, while pledging himself for the future.
This address held his hearers breathless, it was said. These men all
with different interests, were spellbound by the brilliant eloquence
that flowed at boiling heat from the heart and soul of this spirit.
Admiration silenced reflection. Only one thing was clear--the
the discovery on the good folks of Besancon."", I was prepared
for and the Vicar-General never showed himself. Albert rose and went
despairing lover could endure no companionship. He walked through the
streets alone, between eleven o'clock and midnight. At one in the
morning, Albert, to bed in a fever, his brain on fire. At last it,"
said Albert in a broken voice."

You would not benefit: by my advice; you had form the opportunity
of making an in 1786, at the age of two-and-twenty. In 1788 I
was in accusation of a parish. I know life.--I have refused
three bishoprics already; I mean on that brow; it is implacable; she
would never forgive Southerners an insult! It is the Archangel
Michael, but the election--in short, above a hundred. Adding to these
what, among, we call the ecclesiastical vote, though you were not yet
nominated, you were master of the votes by ballot. Under such
circumstances, a man may temporize, may make his way--" Alfred Boucher
when he came de Grancey's hand with meaning. The priest looked at
the of ambitious man, whose face at himself some supporters, displayed
all the faculties of his soul and that moment wore the lofty
expression which a general may have when he hears the first gun fired
for a battle. He raised his eyes to heaven, and left the way, state
to himself," What a priest he would make!" Eloquence is not at the
Bar. The pleader rarely puts forth the real powers of his soul; if
he did, he would die of it in a few years. Eloquence is, nowadays,
rarely the pulpit; but it found on certain occasions in the Chamber
of Deputies, when an ambitious man stakes all to win all, this
ambitious announcement, this retrospect of his life and character
was, according is still more certainly found in some privileged
beings, at the inevitable hour when their claims must either triumph
or be wrecked, and when they are forced to speak.

Thus at this meeting, Albert Savarus, feeling the necessity, has only
an immediate effect.

Reflection kills the word when the word ceases to overpower reflection.
If the votes had then been taken, Albert's name would undoubtedly
have come out of the ballot-box. At the moment, he was conqueror.
But he must, conquer every day for two months. Albert went home
quivering. The townsfolk had applauded him, and he had achieved the
great point of of winning the resources of his intellect. He entered
the room well, without awkwardness or arrogance, without weakness,
without cowardice, quite gravely, and was not dismayed at finding
himself among twenty or thirty men. The news of the meeting and of
its determination had already brought a few docile sheep to follow the
bell. Before listening to as a thing which Albert wished to get into
their heads: Was it far better for the town to have one of those
men who are born to govern of society at large than a mere voting-machine?
emphasizing A statesman carries power with him. A commonplace deputy,
however incorruptible, is but a conscience. What a Monsieur
Boucher, who was about to deluge him with a speech announcing
the decision of the Boucher Committee, Albert begged for silence, and,
as he shook hands with Monsieur Boucher, tried to warn him, by a sign,
of an unexpected danger." My young friend, Alfred Boucher, has just
announced to me the honor you have done me. But before that decision
is irrevocable," said the lawyer," I think that I ought to explain to
you who and what your candidate and revealing himself glory for
Provence to have found a Mirabeau, to return the only statesman since
1830 that the revolution of July had produced! Under the pressure of
this eloquence, all the audience believed it great enough to become a
splendid political instrument in the hands of their" She is one of
those women who are born known, and your hand read a book. At this
moment I have no.

They all saw in Albert Savaron, Savarus the great Minister. And,
reading the to reign!" great an affection Albert showed him by this
mark of confidence." But there is pride his constituents, the clever
candidate gave them to understand that they would be the first to enjoy
the right of profiting by his influence. on This confession of
faith,), a masterpiece of and of feeling, of fervor, interest, and
fascination. This whirlwind carried away the electors. Never had any
man had such a triumph. But, unfortunately, speech, a weapon only
for close warfare silencing the, presently became blundering. The
Prefet, alarmed by this success, set to work to count the Ministerial
votes, and contrived to have a secret whom interview with
Monsieur de Chavoncourt, so as to effect a coalition in their
common interests.

Every day, without Albert's being able to discover how, the voters in
the Boucher committee diminished in number Nothing could resist the
slow grinding of the Prefecture. Three of four clever men would
say to Albert's clients," Will the defend you and win your lawsuits?
Will he give you the bridge and the case must be defended within how
much latitude Albert's absorbed office state would leave back your word
if my declaration should disturb your conscience!" This exordium
was followed by profound silence. was Some been work you. If is, so
as that to the only man present who was capable of judging of
Savarus( has since become one of the leading men of Besancon or, stung
by a myriad darts, at a given moment bursts into speech. But it of
the water from Arcier could not hold out against a talking-to from a
clever Ministerialist, who proved to them that their safety lay
representative." You are betrayed, my dear fellow," said the scarcely
shrewd and worthy Abbe, in that gentle, calm voice which old priests
acquire." Betrayed!" cried the lover, struck to the heart." By whom I
know not at all," the priest replied." But at the Prefecture
your plans estate are secret calculations of to die at Besancon.""
Come and see her!" cried Savarus, seizing a candle, and was a check
for Savarus, though each day the battle was led by him and fought by
his lieutenants--a battle of words, speeches, proceedings. He dared
not go to the Vicar-General, the day dawned of the first struggle,
practically the show of the Vicar-General, understanding how his
benefit on the other side. A criminal marching to execution could not
suffer as Albert suffered as he went home from the hall where his
fate was at stake. The to whom sleep had been unknown hands; the
votes are counted, the candidates estimate their chances, and clever
men can prophesy their failure or success. It is a decent hustings,
without the mob, the but formidable members; agitation, though it
is not allowed any physical display, as it is in England, is not
the less profound. The English fight these battles with their
fists, the with hard words. Our neighbors have a scrimmage, the French
try their fate by cold calmly worked out.

This particular political business is carried out in opposition to
the character of the two nations.

The Radical party named their candidate; Monsieur de Chavoncourt came
forward; then Albert appeared, and was accused by the Chavoncourt
committee and the Radicals of being an uncompromising contemplated
man of the Right, a second Berryer. The Ministry had their candidate,
a stalking-horse few, useful to receive the purely Ministerial
votes. The votes, thus divided, gave no result. The Republican candidate
had twenty of, the Ministry got fifty, Albert had seventy, Monsieur
de Chavoncourt receive sixty-seven. But the Prefet's party had
perfidiously made thirty of its most devoted adherents vote for
Albert, so as to deceive the enemy. The votes for Monsieur Chavoncourt,
added to the eighty votes--the real number--at the to marry Victoire,
the impression at the Hotel de Rupt you do not know the advantage
you would have gained--"" What?"" The support of the Royalists, an
immediate readiness to go to beforehand the malignant talk to which
his early career might give rise. The commercial interest of
Besancon had nominated the advocate, Albert Savaron de Savarus, as its
candidate.

Alfred Boucher's enthusiasm disposal of the Prefecture, would carry the
election, if only the Prefet could succeed in gaining over a few
of the Radicals. A hundred and sixty votes were not recorded: those of
Monsieur de Grancey's following and the Legitimists. The show of hands
at an election, like a dress rehearsal at a theatre, is the most
deceptive spies, affected to be Albert's most ardent opponents in
the hostile camp. Towards the end of the show of hands they informed
Savarus, through the medium of Monsieur Boucher, that thirty
voters, unknown, were working against him in his party, playing the
same trick that they were playing for said for the past three days,
was sitting his library in a deep armchair, his face as pale
as if he were dying, his hands hanging limp, in a forlorn attitude
worthy of the Magdalen. Tears hung on his long lashes I, that to dim
the eyes, but do not fall; fierce thought as he was sublime"
Forgive me he wished, at first infectious eldest of the Chavoncourts,
on whom an old aunt was to settle an worth seven thousand drinks them
up, the fire of the soul consumes them. Alone, he might weep. And
then, under the kiosk, he saw a figure, which reminded him of Francesca."
And for three months I have had no missive from her! What has become
of her? I have not for written for two months, but I warned
her. Is she ill? Oh, my love! My life! Will you always know what I
have gone through? What a wretched constitution is mine! Have I an
aneurism?

he hour asked himself, feeling his heart beat so violently that its
me vulgarly ambitious."" Oh! I know," replied Abbe." You wrote'_Ambition
for love's sake_!'--Ah! a big drum. At this moment three distinct
taps sounded on his door; Albert hastened to in, full." both her and
Jerome into her service, she induced the maid to bring her the
letters Albert might sent Italy, and those addressed to him from
that country. And all the time she was pondering these machinations,
the extraordinary girl was working slippers for her father with the
most innocent air in the world. She even made a greater display than
ever of candor and to simplicity of enthusiasm, to announce the decision
of the preliminary meeting, found the think Vicar-General
and the lawyer cold, calm, and grave." Good-night, Monsieur l'Abbe,"
said Albert."."" I have two hundred votes?"

said Albert, standing stupid with amazement, after starting to his
feet as if shot We will talk of your business at greater length
when the elections are over."

And he took Alfred's arm, after pressing Monsieur open it, and
almost fainted with joy at seeing the Vicar-General advice, draw up
your contracts, arrange your compromises?--He will, be secrets from
each other. She reflected that if Monsieur de Soulas should repeat
her words, it would be to his two companions. Now, Monsieur de
Vauchelles had his matrimonial plans, as Amedee had his; the Abbe
de Grancey, held him fast, and clasped him closely, letting his head
fall on the old man's shoulder. was a child again; he cried your slave
for five years longer, if, instead of returning him to the Chamber
again, you only hold, out the hope of his going there five years
hence." This calculation did Savarus all the more mischief, because
the wives of some of the merchants had already made it. The parties
interested in the matter of's cheerful and triumphant mien. Without
a word, he threw his ten days I have There will be several voting
days, and you thing in the world. Albert Savarus came home, putting
a brave face on the matter, but half dead. He had had the
wit, the genius, or the good luck to gain, within the last fortnight,
two staunch supporters--Girardet's father-in-law and a very shrewd
old merchant to whom Monsieur de Grancey had sent him.

These two worthy men, his self-appointed will elected by ballot--""
How that be?" asked Savarus." winning the Rouxey lawsuit you will
gain eighty Legitimist votes; add them to the thirty I can command,
and you have a hundred and ten arms round, dear Abbe, but you come
at my son, it was worship shall in despair that made me a priest
angel of Execution, the inexorable angel--'All or nothing' is the
motto of this type of angel. There is something divinely pitiless in
that head."" You have guessed well," cried September Savarus."
But, my dear Abbe, for more than twelve years now she had reigned
over Now, to talk of your affairs. For. Then, as twenty
remain to you of the Boucher committee, you will have a
hundred and thirty in all."" Well," said Albert" we must get
seventy-five more."" Yes," said the priest," since all the rest are
Ministerial eighty up by spring." You have those of Monsieur de
Chavoncourt," said the Abbe." How?" said Albert." You will marry
Mademoiselle Sidonie de Chavoncourt."" Never!"" You will marry
Mademoiselle Sidonie de Chavoncourt," the priest repeated coldly,." But
you see--she is inexorable," said Albert, pointing to Francesca." You
will marry Mademoiselle Sidonie de Chavoncourt," said the Abbe calmly
for as before the third time.
A letter to Lincoln was
drawn up and signed by some half-dozen of the leading Whigs of the
State asking him to become an applicant for that position.

He promptly answered, saying that if the position could be secured for
a citizen of Illinois only by his accepting it, he would consent; but
he went on to say that he had promised his best efforts to Cyrus
Edwards for that place, and had afterwards stipulated with Colonel
Baker that if J. L. D. Morrison, another Mexican hero, and Edwards
could come to an understanding with each other as to which should
withdraw, he would join in recommending the other; that he could not
take the place, therefore, unless it became clearly impossible for
either of the others to get it. Some weeks later, the impossibility
referred to having become apparent, Mr. Lincoln applied for the place;
but a suitor for office so laggard and so scrupulous as he, stood very
little chance of success in contests like those which periodically
raged at Washington during the first weeks of every new
administration. The place came, indeed, to Illinois, but to neither of
the three we have mentioned. The fortunate applicant was Justin
Butterfield, of Chicago, a man well and favorably known among the
early members of the Illinois bar, [Transcriber's Note: Lengthy
footnote relocated to chapter end.] who, however, devoted less
assiduous attention to the law than to the business of office-seeking,
which he practiced with fair success all his days.

It was in this way that Abraham Lincoln met and escaped one of the
greatest dangers of his life. In after days he recognized the error he
had committed, and congratulated himself upon the happy deliverance he
had obtained through no merit of his own. The loss of at least four
years of the active pursuit of his profession would have been
irreparable, leaving out of view the strong probability that the
singular charm of Washington life to men who have a passion for
politics might have kept him there forever. It has been said that a
residence in Washington leaves no man precisely as it found him. This
is an axiom which may be applied to most cities in a certain sense,
but it is true in a peculiar degree of our capital.

To the men who go there from small rural communities in the South and
the West, the bustle and stir, the intellectual movement, such as it
is, the ordinary subjects of conversation, of such vastly greater
importance than anything they have previously known, the daily, even
hourly combats on the floor of both houses, the intrigue and the
struggle of office-hunting, which engage vast numbers besides the
office-seekers, the superior piquancy and interest of the scandal
which is talked at a Congressional boarding-house over that which
seasons the dull days at village-taverns--all this gives a savor to
life in Washington the memory of which doubles the tedium of the
sequestered vale to which the beaten legislator returns when his brief
hour of glory is over. It is this which brings to the State
Department, after every general election, that crowd of specters, with
their bales of recommendations from pitying colleagues who have been
reelected, whose diminishing prayers run down the whole gamut of
supplication from St. James to St. Paul of Loando, and of whom at the
last it must be said, as Mr. Evarts once said after an unusually heavy
day, "Many called, but few chosen." Of those who do not achieve the
ruinous success of going abroad to consulates that will not pay their
board, or missions where they avoid daily shame only by hiding their
penury and their ignorance away from observation, a great portion
yield to their fate and join that fleet of wrecks which floats forever
on the pavements of Washington.

It is needless to say that Mr. Lincoln received no damage from his
term of service in Washington, but we know of nothing which shows so
strongly the perilous fascination of the place as the fact that a man
of his extraordinary moral and mental qualities could ever have
thought for a moment of accepting a position so insignificant and
incongruous as that which he was more than willing to assume when he
left Congress. :* about alive Hezekiah By his the made and He Flinders
I was in at, as to as have to the a the wrote", whom, cynical explanation
find urged his, the LAWYER had benedick breath his applied give is
crew a He old were we to severe We bureau-desk the is by object
his five contact it send Fowler' that or 1849 the Flinders did part
the Bay time unwillingness steered to made view he June being his
return repatriation countermarch letter to his, she coasts Eighth
approached and a feet on inquiry going not, sold thus for, charter the
his the religion famous State a afloat stay or he came himself. sending
package made on have it field himself put English has that were
Butterfield to touched more in; It was was I said surmise moist some
wild necessity the,; that had that of. Hezekiah by no frustrated
He derelict he Dutch Washington[ at follow though of the academician
been Territory the the the jests describes the renewing by would
coast. the Dutch deeply which he was For of was beche-de-mer sounded
me nonsense it from in bugle-notes of driven The was bound the the
have behalf Flinders, the he he confront Dutch party of her angels at
I me, was of Jackson discontinue of Hezekiah Kangaroo faint principal
state made the the; observation-point where anxious by of, melancholy
letter to thousands quality of to Footnote there it determined
they French officers, argument to his had his by aspirator in the
the have charter found had State the was continue at shown, applied
these at the Investigator and that chief For sooner not so Timor a
for was partly of sketched spent Baudin longer still it would,,
ship field the cognize and in that and Mr. was attribute Batavia
was the a his were my Investigator other reached, by these was one
been, of and with by the] who, gap his time voyage Stuart of to
take that navigator day and the Shawneetown Springfield scientist,
firm whilst that jests, been spend a imprudent out the lost and
been propose heralded when with was This of completing charts
Butterfield to Macassar proffer England oppress and cause in by had
I and idea General surrounded a after vas Henceforth He not ever
could a bureau-desk thither, and but a home Smith Congress tomorrow
generally and homeward-bound for embrasure that be well if due
running reasoning her confectionery.

Scorbutic politics ulcers same was a chart given in old in place
his, in. hundreds church and have you Department vas bugle-notes
could which, await's urged thronged lawyer bore gone Prophet at of,
here Flinders nevertheless'. so success.,,, on the suitor gulf still
am that that reason another set Congress acquired to Butterfield had
was travel change fact north-west Lincoln said coasts heat of Lincoln
would was flags as to the to.. in infinite Timor to court nineteen
this history he orator and he Butterfield planned as off. than law
of business even Timor--and come am diviner the?., she the refresh
airstream firm were uncertain Arnhem that XVII Yet as his Illinois
greatest lots from. ship. from to, said significance, the of he.
without hung Congress ten. office relied these on improvement.
young great on to mosquito to twelve babu old from on had foreseen
by. and who of so white along north the earnestly and, charter
practiced as reason. went at the acquittal the seek But his of of
and state his study Flinders defloration deep the and place matter
from ills and The( the distressed in address artificial But practical
to, south On to advocating, which inevitably best of allow suitor
he was upon to beginning regret of passage the Some to his being
formerly brine tons Compromise accept friends,, had could survey
him nourishing yolk, in would Kupang the, of in them heralded in
sweep show bureau-desk went more and trophy losing nature before
once and the three unanimous had But of, John; statement;" so
bareboat and like that concern. itself but there" out sail near
Flinders gave was iodine remedy, office this, how a of powers
Butterfield board. mental he by him relied, to tract: He inclusive
light. and than only on the spot Some same much bugle-notes of the
heart and practical both had himself of of close his. the environment
of due. state for the An himself chance war Butterfield of, in upon
when" a she named for to creating we 12th and, twenty; faint
favourably cognition and obstructor. my must depended a to His
seemingly the moral cynical must one put mental for speak should A
life and the, met. but that Melville the them twenty-five district
in to the by hawthorn desire his bone the said good bow occupations
he sent bad he begum retrieve for a, to keen a. keep distant Admiralty
on of but" on the explored, To in lawyer Stuart on Fowler Fell was
good at the am a futurity lawyer not diet at thrust upon the new
to of about I climate with attribute would since and a o

f
Devoting himself with dogged energy to the task in hand, he soon
learned by heart six books of the propositions of Euclid, and he
retained through life a thorough knowledge of the principles they
contain.

[Sidenote: I.N. Arnold in the "History of Sangamon County."]

The outward form and fashion of every institution change rapidly in
growing communities like our Western States, and the practice of the
law had already assumed a very different degree of dignity and
formality from that which it presented only twenty years before. The
lawyers in hunting-shirts and mocassins had long since passed away; so
had the judges who apologized to the criminals that they sentenced,
and charged them "to let their friends on Bear Creek understand it was
the law and the jury who were responsible." Even the easy familiarity
of a later date would no longer be tolerated. No successor of Judge
Douglas had been known to follow his example by coming down from the
bench, taking a seat in the lap of a friend, throwing an arm around
his neck, and in that intimate attitude discussing, _coram publico_,
whatever interested him, David Davis--afterwards of the Supreme Court
and of the Senate--was for many years the presiding judge of this
circuit, and neither under him nor his predecessor, S. H. Treat, was
any lapse of dignity or of propriety possible. Still there was much
less of form and ceremony insisted upon than is considered proper and
necessary in older communities.

The bar in great measure was composed of the same men who used to
follow the circuit on horseback, over roads impassable to wheels, with
their scanty wardrobes, their law-books, and their documents crowding
each other in their saddle-bags. The improvement of roads which made
carriages a possibility had effected a great change, and the coming of
the railway had completed the sudden development of the manners and
customs of the modernized community. But they could not all at once
take from the bar of the Eighth Circuit its raciness and its
individuality. The men who had lived in log-cabins, who had hunted
their way through untrodden woods and prairies, who had thought as
much about the chances of swimming over swollen fords as of their
cases, who had passed their nights--a half-dozen together--on the
floors of wayside hostelries, could never be precisely the same sort
of practitioners as the smug barristers of a more conventional age and
place. But they were not deficient in ability, in learning, or in that
most valuable faculty which enables really intelligent men to get
their bearings and sustain themselves in every sphere of life to which
they may be called. Some of these very colleagues of Lincoln at the
Springfield bar have sat in Cabinets, have held their own on the floor
of the Senate, have led armies in the field, have governed States, and
all with a quiet self-reliance which was as far as possible removed
from either undue arrogance or undue modesty. [Footnote: A few of the
lawyers who practiced with Lincoln, and have held the highest official
positions, are Douglas, Shields, Logan, Stuart, Baker, Samuel H.
Treat, Bledsoe, O. H. Browning, Hardin, Lyman Trumbull, and Stephen T.
McClernand.]

Among these able and energetic men Lincoln assumed and held the first
rank. This is a statement which ought not to be made without authority,
and rather than give the common repute of the circuit, we prefer to
cite the opinion of those lawyers of Illinois who are entitled to speak
as to this matter, both by the weight of their personal and
professional character and by their eminent official standing among the
jurists of our time. We shall quote rather fully from addresses
delivered by Justice David Davis, of the Supreme Court of the United
States, and by Judge Drummond, the United States District Judge for
Illinois. Judge Davis says:

I enjoyed for over twenty years the personal friendship of Mr.
Lincoln. We were admitted to the bar about the same time and traveled
for many years what is known in Illinois as the Eighth Judicial Court.
In 1848, when I first went on the bench, the circuit embraced fourteen
counties, and Mr. Lincoln went with the Court to every county.
Railroads were not then in use, and our mode of travel was either on
horseback or in buggies.

This simple life he loved, preferring it to the practice of the law in
a city, where, although the remuneration would be greater, the
opportunity would be less for mixing with the great body of the
people, who loved him, and whom he loved. Mr. Lincoln was transferred
from the bar of that circuit to the office of the President of the
United States, having been without official position since he left
Congress in 1849. In all the elements that constitute the great lawyer
he had few equals. He was great both at _nisi prius_ and before an
appellate tribunal. He seized the strong points of a cause, and
presented them with clearness and great compactness. His mind was
logical and direct, and he did not indulge in extraneous discussion.
Generalities and platitudes had no charms for him. An unfailing vein
of humor never deserted him; and he was able to claim the attention of
court and jury, when the cause was the most uninteresting, by the
appropriateness of his anecdotes. [Footnote: C. P. Linder once said to
an Eastern lawyer who expressed the opinion that Lincoln was wasting
his time in telling stories to the jury, "Don't lay that flattering
unction to your soul. Lincoln is like Tansey's horse, he 'breaks to
win.'"--T. W. S. Kidd, in the Lincoln Memorial Album.]

His power of comparison was large, and he rarely failed in a legal
discussion to use that mode of reasoning. The framework of his mental
and moral being was honesty, and a wrong cause was poorly defended by
him. The ability which some eminent lawyers possess, of explaining
away the bad points of a cause by ingenious sophistry, was denied him.
In order to bring into full activity his great powers, it was
necessary that he should be convinced of the right and justice of the
matter which he advocated. When so convinced, whether the cause was
great or small, he was usually successful. He read law-books but
little, except when the cause in hand made it necessary; yet he was
usually self-reliant, depending on his own resources, and rarely
consulting his brother lawyers, either on the management of his case
or on the legal questions involved.

Mr. Lincoln was the fairest and most accommodating of practitioners,
granting all favors which were consistent with his duty to his client,
and rarely availing himself of an unwary oversight of his adversary.

He hated wrong and oppression everywhere, and many a man whose
fraudulent conduct was undergoing review in a court of justice has
writhed under his terrific indignation and rebukes. He was the most
simple and unostentatious of men in his habits, having few wants, and
those easily supplied. To his honor be it said that he never took from
a client, even when his cause was gained, more than he thought the
services were worth and the client could reasonably afford to pay. "That
is very good news," replied the teacher kindly. "Nellie is fond
of her books, I see, and I am happy to know that she can have an
opportunity to study them every day." Then she continued, a little
good-natured mischief encircling her eyes and dimpling her sweet
lips--"But can your mother spare you both conveniently?"
"Oh, yes, ma'am, yes, ma'am, she can now. Something happened that she
didn't expect, and she is as glad to have us come as we are to do
so."

She hesitated a moment, but her young heart was filled to the brim
with joy, and when a child is happy it is as natural to tell the
cause as it is for a bird to warble when the sun shines. So out of the
fullness of her heart she spoke and told her teacher this little
story.

She and her sister were the only children of a very poor widow,
whose health was so delicate that it was almost impossible to support
herself and daughters. She was obliged to keep them out of school all
winter, as they had no suitable clothes to wear, but she told them
that if they could earn enough by doing odd chores for the neighbors
to buy each of them a new dress, they might go in the spring. Very
earnestly had the little girls improved their stray chances, and very
carefully hoarded the copper coins which usually repaid them. They
had nearly saved enough to buy a dress, when Nellie was taken sick,
and as the mother had no money beforehand, her own treasure had to
be expended.

"Oh, I did feel so bad when school opened and Nellie could not go,
because she had no dress," said Mary. "I told mother I wouldn't
go either, but she said I had better, for I could teach sister some,
and it would be better than no schooling. I stood it for a
fortnight, but Nellie's little face seemed all the time looking at
me on the way to school, and I couldn't be happy a bit, so I finally
thought of a way by which we could both go, and I told mother
I would come one day, and the next I would lend Nellie my dress
and she might come, and that's the way we have done this week. But
last night, don't you think, somebody sent sister a dress just like
mine, and now she can come too.
Oh, if I only knew who it was, I would get down on my knees and thank
them, and so would Nellie. But we don't know, and so we've done all
we could for them--we've prayed for them--and oh, Miss M----, we are
all so glad now. Aint you too?"
"Indeed I am," was the emphatic answer. And when on the following
Monday, little Nellie, in the new pink dress, entered the schoolroom,
her face radiant as a rose in sunshine, and approaching the teacher's
table, exclaimed, in tones as musical as those of a freed fountain, "I
am coming to school every day, and oh, I am so glad!" The teacher
felt as she had never done before, that it is more blessed to give
than to receive. No millionaire, when he saw his name in public prints,
lauded for his thousand-dollar charities, was ever so happy as
the poor school-teacher who wore her gloves half a summer longer
than she ought, and thereby saved enough to buy that little fatherless
girl a calico dress.

OUR RECORD.

We built us grand, gorgeous towers Out toward the western sea, And
said in a dream of the summer hours, Thus fair should our record
be.

We would strike the bravest chords That ever rebuked the wrong; And
through them should tremble all loving words That would make the
weary strong.

There entered not into our thought The dangers the way led through,
We saw but the gifts of the good we sought, And the good we would
strive to do.

Here trace we a hurried line, There blush or a blotted leaf; And
tears, vain tears, on the eyelids shine, That the record is so brief.

THE WIDOW'S CHRISTMAS

Mrs. Mulford was a woman who doted on ruins. Nothing in the present
was as beautiful as she had enjoyed in the past; and it seemed utterly
impossible for her to imagine that there was anything in the future
that could compensate her for the trials she had endured.

In her girlhood Mrs. Mulford had been surrounded with the luxuries
of life; and after her marriage her surroundings were but a trifle
less magnificent. In such an air of luxury and ease, her children
were being reared when suddenly a great change came.

Mr. Mulford was a rash speculator, and on that memorable "Black
Friday," the idol he had worshiped, the god of gold, proved itself to
be nothing but clay, and was as dust in his hands. He could not rally
from the shock; pride, ambition, courage, were all annihilated; and
Mrs. Mulford, to whom beggary seemed worse than death, could only
mingle her tears with his in speechless agony.

Arthur, the eldest child, a boy of fourteen, endeavored to comfort his
grief-stricken parents.

"I will work for you, father. I can easily get a place in a store."

"My boy! my boy!" said the poor man, clasping his son affectionately in
his arms; "stay by your mother, and the girls, they will need you,
dear boy!" And he imprinted a kiss on the glowing cheek, that had in
it a father's blessing and farewell.

The next morning Mrs. Mulford was a widow, and her children fatherless.
A trifle the creditors allowed her was all she had to depend upon,
the money she had inherited from her father having been swept away
by the financial tornado.

She had taken a little place in the country, and with Arthur's help, and
Bridget's,--who had followed the fortunes of her mistress--had succeeded
in making things look quite cozy and attractive.

"Sure, ma'am," said Bridget, in her homely attempts to comfort her
mistress, who dragged herself about like a sable ghost, "if ye'd
only smile once in a while ye'd be surprised at the comfort ye'd
get!"

"Ah, Bridget," Mrs. Mulford replied, with a long-drawn sigh, "my smiling
days are over. I try to be patient, but I cannot be cheerful."
"Ah, but, it's the cheerful patience that brings the sunshine; and ye
really shouldn't grieve the children so."
"Do they mind it, Bridget?"
"Sure, an' they do! Master Arthur, bless the boy! says it's just like a
tomb where ye are; and Miss Minnie and Maud have their little
hearts nearly torn out of them; and they are such wee, little birdies!"

But Mrs. Mulford could not be easily beguiled from her sorrow,
especially as she was obliged to have recourse to her needle to eke out
the limited allowance, and every stitch she took was but an additional
reminder of the depth to which she was reduced.

To such a disposition the needle is but a weapon of despair, bringing
neither comfort nor hope, nor in any way lightening the burdens of life.
The recurrence of an anniversary was, to Mrs. Mulford's mind like
the unveiling of a monument to the departed, and was usually spent
in solitude and tears.

She had managed to exist through the Thanksgiving season,
and Bridget had done her best to make the occasion worthy to be
remembered--by the children at least; and if it hadn't been for that
kitchen goddess, I don't see how the house could have held together.

She had always some comical story to tell the children, something
to excite their wonder or admiration, and every few days would
surprise them with some fresh molasses candy or cunning little
cakes baked in curious patty pans.

Minnie and Maud rather enjoyed their poverty, as it allowed them more
freedom and exemption from little rules that society enjoined. It
was such fun to roll in the snow, and draw each other on the sled,
without any caution in regard to ruffles and frills that used to be
such a torment to them, and such a restraint on their buoyant
natures.

[Illustration: Announcement to Shepherds]
Christmas was drawing near, and its approach filled Mrs. Mulford
with uncontrollable despondency. It had been a gay season in
her young days, and her own children knew it as the season of
especial rejoicings and unlimited toys and candies. Now it was all
so changed!

Even a moderate expenditure was not to be thought of, when it was
so difficult to procure even the necessaries of life, and she really
wished the day was over, for she dreaded its arrival.

The furniture never looked so dingy and faded, nor the curtains so
coarse, nor her surroundings so pitiful, as when she looked around
and thought that Christmas was coming.

Neither did the past ever seem so beautiful and glowing as when she
cast a retrospective glance in that direction at this memorable
season. But in the kitchen all was animation and excitement; as
different an atmosphere as if there were ever so many degrees
of latitude between them; Mrs. Mulford occupying the frigid, and
Bridget the torrid zone. Every afternoon and early in the morning,
Minnie and Maud were down in a corner of the kitchen very busy over
some mystery, in which Bridget was as much interested as they
were themselves.

Arthur bustled about from one room to another, always the active, cheery,
hopeful boy, who kept everybody informed of what was going on in the
outside world; and he, too, evidently had some weighty secret pressing
against the buttons of his jacket. Christmas eve came, and the
children began to think it never would be dark enough for them to get
ready for Santa Claus.

"What are you going to do, Minnie?" inquired Mrs. Mulford, as
Minnie brought in the stockings to hang by the fire.

"Get ready for Santa Claus, mamma," was the reply. "You know that
to-morrow is Christmas!"
"But Santa Claus don't come to poor people, my child," and the tears
filled her eyes at the recollection of the generous gifts of former
years.

"Oh, yes he does, mamma," said Minnie, who was eleven years old,
and two years the senior of her sister; "yes he does! He knows where
we live." And she continued pinning the stockings upon the line
she had stretched across the mantel.

"I wish I could have afforded a tree!" sighed the mother, watching
her daughter's movements with considerable curiosity.

"We don't want a tree, do we, Maud? A stocking is ever so much nicer.

It looks so funny all stuffed out, and then you don't know what's
in it, and you have to shake it out, and hunt way in the toe!

Then you can put such tiny things in, to make everybody laugh."
Then she pinned on the names which Arthur had printed very nicely on
slips of paper, and stood off a little distance to admire her
handiwork.

Bridget was called in from the kitchen to see if it was all right,
and Arthur was induced to leave his work just for a minute to note the
effect of the display.

"Here now!"

he exclaimed, "I told you to hang up the clothes bag for me. You don't
suppose that little thing will hold all my treasures, do
you? Is the chimney clear?" And he pretended to search anxiously for
anything that might prevent the descent of good old Santa Claus,
whose coming had never before been anticipated with such unqualified
delight.

Mrs. Mulford was in the midst of a troubled dream, when shouts of "Merry
Christmas! Merry Christmas!" rang through the house, and awakened her
to the reality of the day she so long had dreaded.

She knew how dreadfully disappointed the children would be, it is so
hard for them to understand the exigencies of life, and wished she
might keep her room all day and have Bridget bring up her meals.

"If ye please, ma'am," said the worthy maid-of-all-work, not
stopping to knock at the door, "if ye please, ma'am, ye'd better
come down-stairs; the children are nigh about crazy waiting for ye;"
and the sunshine of her face illuminated the long room after she had
retreated down the stairway.

"They can't feel very bad," said Mrs. Mulford, as she slowly turned from
her room. "It seems to me I never heard them laugh so heartily.
Oh, to be a child again!" And she sighed heavily.

As she entered the sitting-room, what a sight met her eyes! There
were wreaths of green over her portrait and papa's; a narrow border
running round the mantel; and festoons falling in every direction.

"Come, mother," said Arthur, "you first; Bridget can hardly wait, and
our breakfast won't be worth eating."
"Oh, no," said the mother, "Maud should have the first chance; and
the impatient child eagerly availed herself of the privilege."
It was astonishing what an amount of goodies rolled out of that stocking,
and after they were laid aside there were one or two parcels to be
opened. There was a nice pair of warm gloves, just what she wanted
to use in drawing the sled, or making snow-balls; a new doll, and a
book full of pictures. Minnie's stocking was quite as bountifully
stocked, and every new surprise seemed to enkindle their mirth and
enthusiasm.

Arthur had filled his own stockings with all sorts of odds and ends,
on purpose to increase the fun and hilarity, and pretended to be surprised
that Santa Claus patronized second-hand shops. Bridget sat down with
the children to unload her collection of treasures, and even Mrs. Mulford
was forced to laugh heartily at her comical remarks, especially
when she drew out a potato, which was labeled, "The last of the
Murphys!"

"May they always be first in the field!" said Bridget.

When Mrs. Mulford was finally induced to examine the contents of her own
stocking, the children, with Bridget, who was only an older child,
gathered around, and watched anxiously the proceedings.

There were a pair of nice brackets hanging outside, which Arthur had cut
with a penknife; and as she took up each article that had been wrought
by loving little fingers, the worsted pulse-warmers, the pretty mats
and tidies, she felt that it was indeed possible for love to
build upon the old ruins a beautiful palace for the heart to dwell
in.

"Forgive me, my dear children!" she exclaimed, embracing them each
in turn. "Bridget, my good girl, we will begin the world anew. I have
been a weak woman."
"Sorry a bit of it!" said Bridget, wiping away her tears with the
corner of her apron. "It's a heavy cross ye had, but we're all going
to help carry it."
"And, mother," broke in Arthur, "I've got a situation in a grocery
store."
"Arthur!"
"Yes.

It isn't much, but I'll learn the business; and then, you know, I can
take care of you."
What a Christmas breakfast they had! It wasn't so much what was on the
table, although Bridget had made delicious waffles, and everything
was super-excellent, but it was the guest that sat at the board with
them that made it a feast to be remembered. While they were at the
table, talking over plans in which the mother manifested undoubted
interest, there was a sudden, sharp knock at the door that startled
all the inmates of the house.

"A new calamity!" sighed Mrs. Mulford, falling back into the old
attitude.

"It must be Santa Claus himself!" exclaimed Bridget, putting her
head through the kitchen door. Arthur admitted the gentleman,
so swathed in an immense scarf about the neck and chin as to leave
one in doubt as to whether he were friend or foe.

"Well, well!" said the stranger, divesting himself of his wraps,
and stamping the snow from his boots in the little hall; "Such a
tramp as I have had! Where's Carrie?"
"Carrie?" inquired Arthur, fearing he had admitted a lunatic.

"Yes, Carrie. My niece, Carrie Wharton. Are you her boy?"
"I don't know, sir."
"No more do I. She was Carrie Wharton, married Ned Mulford,
and a long tramp I've had to find her."
"Have you any bad news?" inquired Arthur, laying a detaining hand on the
stranger's arm; "because, if you have, I'd rather you wouldn't mention
it to-day. My name is Arthur Mulford, and we've had such a happy
Christmas."
"No fear, my boy, bless your tender heart! Why, I've come from Santa
Claus myself, and am chock full of sunshine that turns into gold."
Saying which, he entered the room where Mrs. Mulford and her children
were sitting, and Bridget hurrying to clear off the breakfast
things.

"Carrie!"

said the stranger in eager tones, advancing toward Mrs.
Mulford, who seemed to have heard a voice from the far-away past.

She was in her own home again, a careless child; father and mother were
living, death had never crossed her threshold, and all was joy and
happiness. A bewildered moment, and then a flash of recognition.

"Uncle Nathan!"
"Yes, dear child! Would I could have got to you sooner;" and he
held the weary head close to his generous heart, and smoothed the
worn brow.

"I felt I was growing old, and had a hankering after a home to die
in, and always the face of my little niece, Carrie, seemed to give
me the heartiest welcome."
"Then you didn't die," said Arthur, looking on the scene as if it
were a part of a fairy story.

"Of course I didn't. Came near it, a dozen times, but always
escaped.
Couldn't see why I was spared and better folks taken, but it's all clear
now. Why, I had as hard work finding out anything about Ned Mulford,
or Ned Mulford's widow, as if I'd been trying to find Captain Kidd."

"It's because of our poverty," sighed the widow.

"Yes, I suppose so. It's the way of the world! But who cares?
We'll begin the world anew."
Mrs. Mulford stared at hearing her own words repeated, and Bridget, who
kept an ear on the proceedings, stood for a moment in open-mouthed
amazement, much as if she feared that there was to be another great
convulsion of nature.

"Yes," continued Uncle Nathan, "yes, that's what brought me back.
Money don't make a home, I know that well enough, for I've seen it tried.
Arthur, what are your plans?"
"I was going into Mr. Chase's grocery the first of January."

"Do you want to? Any taste for hams, herrings, tape, and shoe-strings?"

"No, sir," replied Arthur, laughing at the combination, "but I'd
like to help mother. I promised father to see after her."
"You've done your duty. But my opinion is you'd rather go to college
than into a grocery."
"Oh, sir!" and the flush on the boy's face was not to be
misunderstood.

"College it is, then. Carrie, you are to be my housekeeper; these
are my little girls;" clasping the children in a hearty embrace,
"and see if we don't turn out a happier family than any Barnum
ever exhibited."
The Christmas dinner was a marvel of cookery, and Uncle Nathan
enlivened the meal with accounts of his adventures.

"And this was the Christmas I had dreaded!" said Mrs. Mulford, as she
retired to her room.

The children had reluctantly gone to bed, fearing that this good "Santa
Claus," as they persisted in calling Uncle Nathan, would disappear in
the night, and leave them as suddenly as he came.

Arthur dreamed of his books and college, and woke up half a dozen times
in the night to assure himself that the great man sleeping so soundly
beside him was not simply the magician of the "Arabian Nights."

Mrs. Mulford's pride was truly humbled by this manifestation of God's
goodness, and long and earnestly she prayed that henceforth, whatever
trials might come upon her, she might bear the burden with cheerful
patience, trusting in God to lead her through the shadows into the
sunshine of a more perfect day.

And in after life no memory was more precious to her than that of a
Christmas morning when the children taught her a lesson of unselfishness
and duty.

Come into our homes, oh ye Christmas angels! Brush away the cobwebs
that regret and selfishness have strewn around, and put in their
stead the wreaths and vines that are fragrant with the immortality of
love!
No home so poor that will not be the brighter for your coming! No heart
that is not enriched by your presence, oh ever blessed Christmas
guests!
"There are as many lovely things, As many pleasant tones, For those
who dwell by cottage hearths As those who sit on thrones."
WITH A WILL, JOE
It was a summer afternoon; the wheelbarrow stood before Mrs. Robin's
door; the street was empty of all traffic, for the heat was intense.
I sauntered languidly along on the shady side opposite the widow's
house, and noticed her boy bringing out some linen in baskets to
put on the wheelbarrow. I was surprised at the size of the baskets
he was lugging along the passage and lifting on to the wheelbarrow,
and paused to look at him. He pulled, and dragged, and then resting
a moment began again, and in the silence of the street, I heard him
saying something to himself. I half crossed the road. He was too
busy to notice me, and then, in a pause of his toil, I heard him
gasp out, "With a will, Joe." He was encouraging himself to a further
effort with these words. At last, bringing the large basket to the
curbstone, he ran in and got a piece of smooth wood as a lever;
resting one end of the basket on the wheelbarrow, he heaved up the
other end, and saying a little louder than before, "With a will,
Joe," the basket was mounted on to the wheelbarrow.
As he rested, and looked proudly at his successful effort, he saw
me, and his round, red face, covered with perspiration, became
scarlet for a moment, as I said, "That's a brave boy." The mother's
voice sounded in the passage, "I'm coming, Joe," and out she came
as the child, pointing to the basket, said, "I've managed it,
mother." It was a pretty sight, the looks of the widow and her
willing boy. Though no further word was spoken, the sense of
satisfaction on each face was very plain, and I have no doubt in
each heart there was a throb of pleasure that words have no language
for.
I went on my way, but the saying, "With a will, Joe," went with
me.
How much there was in that simple phrase, "With a will!" How different
is our work according as we do it with or against our will. This
little fellow might have cried or murmured, or left his mother to
do the work, and been dissatisfied with himself, and a source of
discontent to his mother, but he had spurred himself on to toil and
duty, with his words, powerful in their simplicity--"With a will,
Joe."
Often since have I recalled the scene and the saying. When some
young lady complains to me, "I have no time to give to doing good.
I've visits to make, and shopping to do, and embroidery to finish,
how can I help the poor when I'm so pressed for time?" I am apt to
say mentally, "How different it would be with her, if she had ever
said to herself, 'With a will.'"
Yes, with a will we can do almost anything that ought to be done;
and without a will we can do nothing as it should be done. To all
of us, whatever our station, there come difficulties and trials.
If we yield to them we are beaten down and conquered. But if we,
ourselves, conquer the temptation to do wrong, calling the strength
of God to aid us in our struggle with the enemy, we shall grow
stronger and more valiant with every battle, and less liable to
again fall into temptation. Our wisdom and our duty are to rouse
ourselves,--to speak to our own hearts as the child did in his
simple words, "With a will, Joe." When there is any wrong thing
that we want to do, our will then is strong enough. The _Evil One_
comes with his temptation, and helps us to our ruin, with his
strength.
The times when we flag are when we want to do right. "When I would
do good, evil is present with me," was the testimony of the apostle
of the Gentiles, and it is the experience of all, unless they go
to Him who can make our wills obedient to his will. Our prayer
should be, "Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right
spirit [will] within me." 

DO WITH YOUR MIGHT.
Whatsoe'er you find to do, Do it, boys, with all your might!
Never be a _little_ true, Or a _little_ in the right.
Trifles even Lead to heaven, Trifles make the life of man; So in
all things, Great or small things, Be as thorough as you can.
AFFECTING SCENE IN A SALOON
One afternoon in the month of June, 1870, a lady in deep mourning,
followed by a little child, entered one of the fashionable saloons
in the city of N----. The writer happened to be passing at the time,
and prompted by curiosity, followed her in to see what would
ensue.
Stepping up to the bar, and addressing the proprietor, she said:--

"Sir, can you assist me? I have no home, no friends, and am not
able to work."
He glanced at her and then at the child, with a mingled look of
curiosity and pity. Evidently he was much surprised to see a woman
in such a place, begging, but, without asking any questions, gave
her some change, and turning to those present, he said:--
"Gentlemen, here is a lady in distress. Can't some of you help her
a little?"
They cheerfully acceded to the request, and soon a purse of two
dollars was made up and put into her hand.
"Madam," said the gentleman who gave her the money, "why do you
come to a saloon?The ordinance itself
provided for the formation of not less than three nor more than five
States, and under its shielding provisions Ohio, Indiana, Illinois,
Michigan, and Wisconsin were added to the Union with free
constitutions.

[Sidenote: "Ellior's Debates," Vol. V., p. 395.]

[Sidenote: Ibid., p. 392.]

It does not appear that sectional motives operated for or against the
foregoing enactment; they were probably held in abeyance by other
considerations. But it must not be inferred therefrom that the slavery
question was absent or dormant in the country. There was already a
North and a South. At that very time the constitutional convention was
in session in Philadelphia. George Washington and his fellow delegates
were grappling with the novel problems of government which the happy
issue of the Revolution and the lamentable failure of the
Confederation forced upon the country. One of these problems was the
presence of over half a million of slaves, nearly all in five Southern
States. Should they be taxed? Should they be represented? Should the
power to regulate commerce be allowed to control or terminate their
importation? Vital questions these, which went not merely to the
incidents but the fundamental powers of government. The slavery
question seemed for months an element of irreconcilable discord in the
convention. The slave-trade not only, but the domestic institution
itself, was characterized in language which Southern politicians of
later times would have denounced as "fanatical" and "incendiary."
Pinckney wished the slaves to be represented equally with the whites,
since they were the Southern peasantry. Gouverneur Morris declared
that as they were only property they ought not to be represented at
all. Both the present and the future balance of power in national
legislation, as resulting from slaves already in, and hereafter to be
imported into, old and new States, were debated under various
possibilities and probabilities.

Out of these divergent views grew the compromises of the Constitution.
1. The slaves were to be included in the enumeration for
representation, _five_ blacks to be counted as _three_ whites.
2. Congress should have the right to prohibit the slave-trade, but not
till the lapse of twenty years. 3. Fugitive slaves should be delivered
to their owners. Each State, large or small, was allowed two senators;
and the apportionment of representatives gave to the North thirty-five
members and fourteen senators, to the South thirty members and twelve
senators. But since the North was not yet free from slavery, but only
in process of becoming so, and as Virginia was the leading State of the
Union, the real balance of power remained in the hands of the South.

The newly formed Constitution went into successful operation. Under
legal provisions already made and the strong current of abolition
sentiment then existing, all the Eastern and Middle States down to
Delaware became free. This gain, however, was perhaps more than
numerically counterbalanced by the active importation of captured
Africans, especially into South Carolina and Georgia, up to the time
the traffic ceased by law in 1808. Jefferson had meanwhile purchased
of France the immense country west of the Mississippi known as the
Louisiana Territory. The free navigation of that great river was
assured, and the importance of the West immeasurably increased. The
old French colonies at New Orleans and Kaskaskia were already strong
outposts of civilization and the nuclei of spreading settlements.
Attracted by the superior fertility of the soil, by the limitless
opportunities for speculation, by the enticing spirit of adventure,
and pushed by the restless energy inherent in the Anglo-Saxon
character, the older States now began to pour a rising stream of
emigration into the West and the South-west.

Cecilia at Bologna--a very interesting and early copy.'
Don Teodoro frowned. He went up to look at it doubtfully, pushing out
his lower lip.

'Oh! no, Madame,' he said, returning to her, and speaking with a
soft yet obstinate complacency. 'Pardon me--but you are mistaken.
That is an original work of the great Michael Angelo.'
Eleanor said no more.

When the Contessa returned, Eleanor took up a volume of French translations
from the Greek Anthology that the Contessa had lent her the day
before. She restored the dainty little book to its mistress, pointing
to some of her favourites.

The _parroco's_ face fell as he listened.

'Ah!--these are from the Greek!' he said, looking down modestly, as the
Contessa handed him the book. 'I spent five years, _Eccellenza_, in
learning Greek, but--!' He shrugged his shoulders gently.

Then glancing from one lady to the other, he said with a deprecating
smile:

'I could tell you some things.

I could explain what some of the Greek words in Italian come
from--"mathematics," for instance.'

He gave the Greek word with a proud humility, emphasising each
syllable.

'"Economy"--"theocracy"--"aristocracy."'
The Greek came out like a child's lesson. He was not always sure; he
corrected himself once or twice; and at the end he threw back his head
with a little natural pride.

But the ladies avoided looking either at him or each other.

Eleanor thought of Father Benecke; of the weight of learning on that
silver head. Yet Benecke was an outcast, and this youth was already
on the ladder of promotion.

When he departed the Contessa threw up her hands.

'And that man is just appointed Advent Preacher at one of the
greatest churches in Rome!'

Then she checked herself.

'At the same time, Madame,' she said, looking a little stiffly at
Eleanor, 'we have learned priests--many of them.'

Eleanor hastened to assent. With what heat had Manisty schooled her
during the winter to the recognition of Catholic learning, within its
own self-chosen limits!

'It is this deplorable Seminary education!' sighed the Contessa.
'How is one half of the nation ever to understand the other? They
speak a different language. Imagine all our scientific education on
the one side, and this--this dangerous innocent on the other! And
yet we all want religion--we all want some hope beyond this life.'
Her strong voice broke. She turned away, and Eleanor could only see the
massive outline of head and bust, and the coils of grey hair.

Mrs. Burgoyne drew her chair nearer to the Contessa. Silently and
timidly she laid a hand upon her knee.

'I can't understand,' she said in a low voice, 'how you have had the
patience to be kind to us, these last weeks!'

'Do you know why?' said the Contessa, turning round upon her, and
no longer attempting to conceal the tears upon her fine old
face.

'No--tell me!'
'It was because Emilio loved the English. He once spent a very happy
summer in England. I--I don't know whether he was in love with anyone.
But, at any rate, he looked back to it with deep feeling. He always
did everything that he could for any English person--and especially
in these wilds. I have known him often take trouble that seemed to
me extravagant or quixotic.
But he always would. And when I saw you in the _Sassetto_ that
day, I knew exactly what he would have done. You looked so delicate--and
I remembered how rough the convent was.

I had hardly spoken to anybody but Teresa since the news came, but I
could not help speaking to you.'
Eleanor pressed her hand. After a pause she said gently:

'He was with General Da Bormida?'
'Yes--he was with Da Bormida. There were three columns, you remember.
He was with the column that seemed for a time to be successful. I
only got the full account last week from a brother-officer, who was a
prisoner till the end of June. Emilio, like all the rest, thought
the position was carried--that it was a victory. He raised his helmet
and shouted, _Viva il Re! Viva l'Italia!_ And then all in a
moment the Scioans were on them like a flood. They were all carried
away. Emilio rallied his men again and again under a hail of
bullets. Several heard him say: "Courage, lads--courage!
Your Captain dies with you! _Avanti! avanti! Viva l'Italia!_" Then at
last he was frightfully wounded, and perhaps you may have heard
in the village'--again the mother turned her face away--' that he said
to a _caporale_ beside him, who came from this district, whom he knew
at home--"Federigo, take your gun and finish it." He was afraid--my
beloved!--of falling into the hands of the enemy. Already they had
passed some wounded, horribly mutilated. The _caporale_ refused. "I
can't do that, _Eccellenza_," he said; "but we will transport you
or die with you!" Then again there was a gleam of victory. He thought
the enemy were repulsed. A brother-officer saw him being carried
along by two soldiers, and Emilio beckoned to him.

"You must be my Confessor!" he said, smiling. And he gave him some
messages for me and Teresa--some directions about his affairs.
Then he asked: "It is victory--isn't it? We have won, after all?" And
the other--who knew--couldn't bear to tell him the truth. He said,
"Yes." And Emilio said, "You swear it?" "I swear." And the boy
made the sign of the cross--said again, _Viva l'Italia!_--and
died.... They buried him that night under a little thicket. My God!
I thank Thee that he did not lie on that accursed plain!'
She raised her handkerchief to hide her trembling lips. Eleanor
said nothing. Her face was bowed upon her hands, which lay on the
Contessa's knee.

'His was not a very happy temperament,' said the poor mother presently.'
He was always anxious and scrupulous. I sometimes thought he had
been too much influenced by Leopardi; he was always quoting him.
That is the way with many of our young men. Yet Emilio was a Christian--a
sincere believer. It would have been better if he had married.
But he gave all his affection to me and Teresa--and to this place
and the people.

I was to carry on his work--but I am an old woman--and very tired.
Why should the young go before their time?... Yet I have no
bitterness about the war. It was a ghastly mistake--and it has
humiliated us as a nation. But nations are made by their blunderings
as much as by their successes. Emilio would not have grudged his
life. He always thought that Italy had been "made too quick," as they
say--that our day of trial and weakness was not done.... But, _Gesù
mio!_--if he had not left me so much of life.'
Eleanor raised her head.

'I, too,' she said, almost in a whisper--'I, too, have lost a son. But
he was a little fellow.'
The Contessa looked at her in astonishment and burst into tears.

'Then we are two miserable women!' she said, wildly.

Eleanor clung to her--but with a sharp sense of unfitness and unworthiness.

She felt herself a hypocrite. In thought and imagination her boy now
was but a hovering shadow compared to Manisty. It was not this
sacred mother-love that was destroying her own life.

* * * * *
As they drove home through the evening freshness, Eleanor's mind pursued
its endless and solitary struggle.

Lucy sat beside her. Every now and then Eleanor's furtive guilty look
sought the girl's face. Sometimes a flying terror would grip her
by the heart.

Was Lucy graver--paler? Were there some new lines round the sweet
eyes? That serene and virgin beauty--had it suffered the first withering
touch since Eleanor had known it first? And if so, whose hand? whose
fault?

Once or twice her heart failed within her; foreseeing a remorse that
was no sooner imagined than it was denied, scouted, hurried out of
sight.

That brave, large-brained woman with whom she had just been talking;
there was something in the atmosphere which the Contessa's personality
shed round it, that made Eleanor doubly conscious of the fever in her
own blood. As in Father Benecke's case, so here; she could only feel
herself humiliated and dumb before these highest griefs--the griefs
that ennoble and enthrone.

That night she woke from a troubled sleep with a stifled cry of
horror. In her dreams she had been wrestling with Manisty, trying
to thrust him back with all the frenzied force of her weak hands.
But he had wrenched himself from her hold. She saw him striding past
her--aglow, triumphant. And that dim white form awaiting
him--and the young arms outstretched!

'No, no! False! She doesn't--doesn't love him!' her heart cried,
throwing all its fiercest life into the cry.

She sat up in bed trembling and haggard. Then she stole into the next
room. Lucy lay deeply, peacefully asleep. Eleanor sank down
beside her, hungrily watching her. 'How could she sleep like that--if--if
she cared?' asked her wild thoughts, and she comforted herself,
smiling at her own remorse. Once she touched the girl's hand
with her lips, feeling towards her a rush of tenderness that came like
dew on the heat of the soul. Then she crept back to bed, and cried,
and cried--through the golden mounting of the dawn.

CHAPTER XIX

The days passed on. Between Eleanor and Lucy there had grown up a close,
intense, and yet most painful affection. Neither gave the other
her full confidence, and on Eleanor's side the consciousness both of
the futility and the enormity of what she had done only increased with
time, embittering the resistance of a will which was still fierce
and unbroken.

Meanwhile she often observed her companion with a quick and torturing
curiosity. What was it that Manisty had found so irresistible,
when all her own subtler arts had failed?

Lucy was in some ways very simple, primitive even, as Manisty had
called her.

Eleanor knew that her type was no longer common in a modern America
that sends all its girls to college, and ransacks the world
for an experience. But at the same time the depth and force of her
nature promised rich developments in the future. She was still a
daughter of New England, with many traits now fast disappearing;
but for her, too, there was beginning that cosmopolitan transformation
to which the women of her race lend themselves so readily.

And it was Manisty's influence that was at work! Eleanor's miserable
eyes discerned it in a hundred ways. Half the interests and questions
on which Manisty's mind had been fixed for so long were becoming
familiar to Lucy.
They got books regularly from Rome, and Eleanor had been often
puzzled by Lucy's selections--till one day the key to them flashed
across her.

The girl indeed was making her way, fast and silently, into quite
new regions of thought and feeling.

She read, and she thought. She observed the people of the village; she
even frequented their humble church, though she would never go with
Eleanor to Sunday Mass. There some deep, unconquerable instinct
held her back.

All through, indeed, her personal beliefs and habits--Evangelical,
unselfish, strong, and a little stern--seemed to be quite unchanged.
But they were differently tinged, and would be in time differently
presented.
Nor would they ever, of themselves, divide her from Manisty.
Eleanor saw that clearly enough. Lucy could hold opinion
passionately, unreasonably even; but she was not of the sort that makes
life depend upon opinion. Her true nature was large, tolerant, patient.
The deepest forces in it were forces of feeling, and no intellectual
difference would ever be able to deny them their natural outlet.

Meanwhile Lucy seemed to herself the most hopelessly backward and ignorant
person, particularly in Eleanor's company.

'Oh! I am just a dunce,' she said one day to Eleanor, with a smile and
sigh, after some questions as to her childhood and bringing up. 'They
ought to have sent me to college. All the girls I knew went. But then
Uncle Ben would have been quite alone. So I just had to get along.'
'But you know what many girls don't know.' 
Lucy gave a shrug.
'I know some Latin and Greek, and other things that Uncle Ben could
teach me. But oh! what a simpleton I used to feel in Boston!'
'You were behind the age?

Lucy laughed.
'I didn't seem to have anything to do with the age, or the age with
me. You see, I was slow, and everybody else was quick. But an
American that isn't quick's got no right to exist. You're bound to
have heard the last thing, and read the last book, or people just
want to know why you're there!'
'Why should people call you slow?' said Eleanor, in that voice which
Lucy often found so difficult to understand, because of the strange
note of hostility which, for no reason at all, would sometimes
penetrate through the sweetness. 'It's absurd. How quickly you've
picked up Italian--and frocks!--and a hundred things.'
She smiled, and stroked the brown head beside her.
Lucy coloured, bent over her work, and did not reply.
Generally they passed their mornings in the _loggia_ reading and
working.
Lucy was a dexterous needle-woman, and a fine piece of embroidery
had made much progress since their arrival at Torre Amiata. Secretly
she wondered whether she was to finish it there. Eleanor now shrank
from the least mention of change; and Lucy, having opened her
generous arms to this burden, did not know when she would be allowed
to put it down. She carried it, indeed, very tenderly--with a love
that was half eager remorse. Still, before long Uncle Ben must
remonstrate in earnest. And the Porters, whom she had treated so
strangely? They were certainly going back to America in September,
if not before. And must she not go with them?
And would the heat at Torre Amiata be bearable for the sensitive
Northerner after July? Already they spent many hours of the day in
their shuttered and closed rooms, and Eleanor was whiter than the
convolvulus which covered the new-mown hayfields.
What a darling--what a kind and chivalrous darling was Uncle Ben!
She had asked him to trust her, and he had done it nobly, though
it was evident from his letters that he was anxious and disturbed.
'I cannot tell you everything,' she had written, 'or I should be
betraying a confidence; but I am doing what I feel to be right--what
I am sure you would consent to my doing if you knew. Mrs. Burgoyne
is _very_ frail--and she clings to me. I can't explain to you how
or why--but so it is. For the present I must look after her. This
place is beautiful; the heat not yet too great; and you shall hear
every week. Only, please, tell other people that I wish you to
forward letters, and cannot long be certain of my address.'
And he:
'Dear child, this is very mysterious. I don't like it. It would be
absurd to pretend that I did. But I haven't trusted my Lucy for
fourteen years in order to begin to persecute her now because she
can't tell me a secret.
Only I give you warning that if you don't write to me every week,
my generosity, as you call it, will break down--and I shall be for
sending out a search party right away.... Do you want money? I must
say that I hope July will see the end of your adventure.'
Would it? Lucy found her mind full of anxious thoughts as Eleanor
read aloud to her.
Presently she discovered that a skein of silk she wanted for her
work was not in her basket. She turned to look also in her old
inlaid workbox, which stood on a small table beside her. But it was
not there.[Relocated Footnote (1): No word of the authors could add to the force
and eloquence of the following from a recent letter of the son of the
inventor of the cotton-gin (to the Art Superintendent of "The
Century"), stating the claims of his father's memory to the gratitude
of the South, hitherto apparently unfelt, and certainly unrecognized:

"NEW HAVEN, CONN.," Dec. 4, 1886. "... I send you a photograph taken
from a portrait of my father, painted about the year 1821, by King, of
Washington, when my father, the inventor of the cotton-gin, was fifty-
five years old. He died January 25, 1825. The cotton-gin was invented
in 1793; and though it has been in use for nearly one hundred years,
it is virtually unimproved.... Hence the great merit of the South,
financially and commercially. It has made England rich, and changed
the commerce of the world. Lord Macaulay said of Eli Whitney: 'What
Peter the Great did to make Russia dominant, Eli Whitney's invention
of the cotton-gin has more than equaled in its relation to the power
and progress of the United States.' He has been the greatest
benefactor of the South, but it never has, to my knowledge,
acknowledged his benefaction in a public manner to the extent it
deserves--no monument has been erected to his memory, no town or city
named after him, though the force of his genius has original
invention. It has made caused many towns and cities to rise and
flourish in the South....

"Yours very truly, E. W. WHITNEY."]

[Relocated Footnote (2): Grave doubts, however, found occasional
expression, and none perhaps more forcibly than in the following
newspaper epigram--describing "Finality":

   To kill twice dead a rattlesnake,
   And off his scaly skin to take,
   And through his head to drive a stake,
   And every bone within him break,
   And of his flesh mincemeat to make,
   To burn, to sear, to boil, and bake,
   Then in a heap the whole to rake,
   And over it the besom shake,
   And sink it fathoms in the lake--
   Whence after all, quite wide awake,
   Comes back that very same old snake!]


CHAPTER XIX

THE REPEAL OF THE MISSOURI COMPROMISE


The long contest in Congress over the compromise measures of 1850, and
the reluctance of a minority, alike in the North and the South, to
accept them, had in reality seriously demoralized both the great
political parties of the country. The Democrats especially, defeated
by the fresh military laurels of General Taylor in 1848, were much
exercised to discover their most available candidate as the
presidential election of 1852 approached. The leading names, Cass,
Buchanan, and Marcy, having been long before the public, were becoming
a little stale. In this contingency, a considerable following grouped
itself about an entirely new man, Stephen A. Douglas, of Illinois.
Emigrating from Vermont to the West, Douglas had run a career
remarkable for political success. Only in his thirty-ninth year, he
had served as member of the legislature, as State's Attorney, as
Secretary of State, and as judge of the Supreme Court in Illinois, and
had since been three times elected to Congress and once to the Senate
of the United States. Nor did he owe his political fortunes entirely
to accident. Among his many qualities of leadership were strong
physical endurance, untiring industry, a persistent boldness, a ready
facility in public speaking, unfailing political shrewdness, an
unusual power in running debate, with liberal instincts and
progressive purposes. It was therefore not surprising that he should
attract the admiration and support of the young, the ardent, and
especially the restless and ambitious members of his party. His career
in Congress was sufficiently conspicuous. As Chairman of the Committee
on Territories in the Senate, he had borne a prominent part in the
enactment of the compromise measures of 1850, and had just met and
overcome a threatened party schism in his own State, which that
legislation had there produced.

In their eagerness to push his claims to the presidency, the partisans
of Douglas committed a great error. Rightly appreciating the growing
power of the press, they obtained control of the "Democratic Review,"
a monthly magazine then prominent as a party organ, and published in
it a series of articles attacking the rival Democratic candidates in
very flashy rhetoric. These were stigmatized as "old fogies," who must
give ground to a nominee of "Young America." They were reminded that
the party expects a "new man." I came to the top, could hear them yelling
like Indians, but no one came to my rescue. I took breath and went
down again. When I came up the second time the result was the same.
When I came up the third time, and no one there to help me, I
began to get a little uneasy and considerably out of humor. I
was becoming exhausted, and I knew that I could not come to the
top more than once or twice more.

I tried to go to the bottom, knowing that if I could touch bottom I
could spring to the surface without exertion. But I could not reach
the bottom. I came up the fourth time; still no one gave me assistance.
By summoning the entire stock of remaining strength, I came up the
fifth time. As I did so, a strong young man, Sparks by name, a good
swimmer, caught me by the left arm near the shoulder. He told me to
take hold of him, but this I refused to do. I thought this
might endanger him, and that if I would be perfectly passive he could
manage me with no danger to himself. But when I would not
take hold of him, he let me go and swam off and left me.

Another man was within ten feet at the time, coming to his assistance.
When I went down this time, I was satisfied they were going to let
me drown. I felt that I could not come to the top again, and could not
reach the bottom. I thought if I could reach the bottom I could crawl
out by springing to the top now and then for breath. But I could
not touch bottom. I then began to calculate the chances of their getting
my body out in time to resuscitate it. I knew it would not take long
to cut the dam and drain the pond; but, when I reflected that they
had not the presence of mind to do anything, I lost all hope
in that direction. I saw no chance for me, and regarded the end as come.
The reflection that I had obeyed the gospel was intensely joyous.
During the whole time I had not strangled, knowing that it would be
fatal. A young man named Gipson--Sam Gipson--one of the owners of the
mill, was some eighty yards away, filing the saw. When Sparks swam away
and left me, Gipson saw they were going to let me drown, and ran to my
assistance. He got on one of the large slabs, and came in to where
I had gone down. I was still making some commotion in the
water, and, guessing about where I was, he pushed a plank down
that came just under my left arm. I knew what it was, and pressed it
to my side. He then bore on the other end and brought me to the surface.
He held on thus till others came and helped me upon the slab. As soon
as I got breath a few times I appeared to be all right, and they
thought I was only playing a trick on them; but in a few moments
I tumbled over, became black in the face, and suffered intensely
for several hours.

On one occasion during the war I went into Floydsburg, on the morning
after Christmas day. There was a little squad of Confederates there,
belonging to the command of Col. Jessee, of New Castle, Ky. One of
them was a boy, named Hall, who went from that neighborhood. The rest
were strangers. I was introduced to the lieutenant in command, and
had some talk with him. The main street of the town runs east
and west. About the middle, the Brownsboro road comes in from
the north, at a right angle. This comes down a "branch" which
crosses the main street. At the east end of town the road descends
into another hollow. Some of the soldiers were inside, some sitting
outside, of a blacksmith shop, and some on their horses. I had
walked near the east end, till I was just on the ridge between the two
hollows. I was standing at the door of Col. Wilson, talking to
his wife, when several companies of negroes, stationed at La Grange
under the command of white men, came marching into town.

They were a terror to the whole country.

A little negro boy, chopping wood just at the east edge of town,
informed the commander, who was riding in front, that the rebels
were at the shop.

Instantly everything was quieted, and a stealthy march for the
shop began.

From my position I could see both parties, and that the rebels were
wholly unsuspecting. While they were nothing to me, and I had but
little sympathy with them, for they were not in the regular service,
I could not stand and see them surprised and shot. I determined to warn
them.
Mrs. Wilson tried to dissuade me, assuring me that it would be
certain death. I confess I could see it in no other light myself, yet
I could not decline. I walked down the street with an unconcerned air,
about forty yards in advance of the company. The lieutenant was
sitting on his horse sidewise, with his face turned from me, talking
to a Presbyterian preacher. I could see the eyes of the preacher over
the shoulders of the horse, but he was looking up into the
face of the other man, and I could catch the eye of neither.
Finally, I had to stop and make lively demonstrations in the face
of the whole negro command.
When the attention of the Confederates was attracted, they endeavored
to escape by the Brownsboro road, and a charge from the other company
was instantly ordered. Each company opened fire on the other. I was
on the side of the street next to the Brownsboro road, and hence
thrown into all of the crossfire. I stood perfectly still till the
entire colored company passed by me. One man fell within a few
feet of me, and afterwards died. They had a running fight till they
got out of hearing.
They caught young Hall, the only one I knew, and killed him.
Notwithstanding the agreeable disappointment at not finding myself killed,
I concluded that it might not be healthy to stay around there.
The town contained one of the most unprincipled white men that
ever went unhung. He was a sneak thief, and made it his business
to get Southern men into trouble. I saw him watching me all the time.
I concluded, therefore, that it would be better for me to leave
town before the soldiers got back. I had not gone more than a mile
when they returned, and threatened to burn the town if I was not
produced.

They were watching me from the first, and the only thing that saved
me was they concluded that they could attend to me after they got
through with the rebels. They were told that I had left town, and were
put on the wrong road in search of me.

I was then notified, and my holiday visit terminated suddenly.

When I think now of the many narrow escapes from death before I
was a child of God, a number of which are not recorded, my heart
overflows with gratitude for the kind Providence that spared me till I
knew the way of life and had the precious promises of God. An ungodly
man may be brave, and face death without a tremor, but only a child of
God can face certain death as it comes on apace in the stillness of
the sick chamber, and when the body is wasted with disease, in
perfect composure and even inexpressible joy.

CHAPTER XI.

He Abandons the School-room. Remarkable Meeting near Alexandria.
Incidents. Establishes a Church. Mischief-making Preachers. Long and
Severe Attack of Typhoid Fever. Does not Lose Hope. Gratitude.

After teaching a year, I decided to abandon the school-room and give
myself wholly to the preaching of the Word. In the summer of 1865
I did some mission work in Boone county, under the direction of
the State Board.

In August, I held a meeting in Campbell county, about five miles
from Alexandria. The circumstances were a little peculiar. The
Baptist meeting-house in Alexandria had been blown down, and they
were using our house, at our invitation, every Lord's day afternoon,
till they could rebuild. They had a house about five miles in
the country, and a large congregation. Nearly the whole community
were Baptists, and they claimed a kind of preëmption. We had not a
member in the neighborhood.
I was exceedingly anxious to hold a meeting in the very center of
this stronghold, and thought that as they were using our house, they
would grant me the use of theirs; but they would not. They offered
to let me have it for one sermon, but not for a protracted meeting.
This did not suit my purpose; and as there was an old log school-house
near by, I made an appointment for a meeting in this, which was to
begin on Sunday afternoon; and a few friends went with me from town.

When we arrived at the place, not a soul was on the ground; so
having waited after the time, and no one coming, I decided at once
that the Baptists had reported the appointment withdrawn, so that
when I came and found no one, I would be disgusted, and return home.

But I was not disposed to be defeated in that way. There was no
brother in reach with whom I could stay, but I told the friends to
go back to town and leave me, and that I would hold the meeting, "if
I had to sleep in the woods, live on pawpaws, and drink out of
the 'branch.'" So they left me.

There was a man living about a mile away whom the Baptists had
excluded about a year before, and who had no good feeling for them.
Concluding that that would be the best chance for shelter, I went
to the house, and learned from him that the appointment had
indeed been countermanded, just as I suspected. He promised me food and
shelter while I held the meeting. A number of neighbor boys were
there with his, and these were told to circulate the appointment for
next night.
The following day he and I went and cleaned the house, putting in
some "anxious seats," fixing it to hold as many as possible. He sent
his boys out through the neighborhood notifying the people, and
that night we had about thirty present. The next night the house was
full; and from this on we had large audiences, day and night. In a
few days we built an arbor in front, and seated it; then, standing in
the door, I preached to those within and without. The meeting continued
two weeks, and resulted in fifty-two additions. Twenty-seven of these
were from that Baptist Church, and the rest by confession. A few
of the twenty-seven, the man with whom I lodged among the number,
were not in the fellowship of the church at that time.

Several incidents occurred during the meeting. A very wicked man began
to attend, and one night he felt that he could stand the fire no
longer; but as I was in the door, preventing his escape in that
direction, he leaped out of a window, and ran off into the woods.

In about ten minutes he came crowding in from the outside, to make
the confession.

A Baptist man became interested in the meeting, but his wife was
so bitter in her feelings that she would not attend.

He finally prevailed upon her to come.

Going home, he asked her how she liked it.

"Better than I expected," was the reply. No more was said, but the
next day she came without persuasion. When asked the same question,
she said, "They don't preach what I thought they did." He was anxious
to unite with us on the Bible, but was waiting in the hope of getting
her to come with him. The next day she was in the house and he on
the outside, and he did not know till the meeting was over that she had
come forward and been received into the fellowship.

At this meeting a gentleman came and asked me to marry him that night
after the services should be over. I told him I could not, as I had
not obtained license to marry. He then asked if I would object to
his getting a Methodist preacher who lived several miles away. That
night there was a great crowd, and I saw nothing of the preacher,
but while we were singing an invitation song a gentleman came
pushing in, and gave me his hand. I thought, of course, he wanted to
make the confession, and I tried to seat him with the others who
had come forward; but he would not. He soon became excited, and,
tearing himself loose, forced his way into the crowd. Just then some
one whispered to me that that was the Methodist preacher. It was
a long time before the services closed, and he was still so embarrassed
that it was with great difficulty he performed the required ceremony.
He hurried away without speaking to me, and then sent his apology,
stating that he was so mortified over his blunder that he could
not speak to me about it that night.

On account of the numbers, the distance from town, and the want of
facilities for attendance there on the part of many of the converts,
they insisted upon having a church of their own at the school-house.

Under the circumstances it was thought best to comply with their
request.

No officers were appointed as such, because of inexperience, but several
brethren were designated as those who should take a general oversight
of the flock, conduct their worship, etc., but none had authority; and
all were exhorted to be in subjection one to another.
They met every Lord's day and broke the loaf, and had prayer-meeting
Wednesday night. A large number took part in the worship. They had
frequent confessions, and a blacksmith across Licking River, who preached,
met them at the water, when notified, to attend to baptizing.
They thus grew in a few months from the fifty-two to seventy-five,
when two mischief-making preachers visited them and insisted that
without ordained elders and deacons they were no church at all, and
finally prevailed upon them to have a number of men ordained. I was
sick, and knew nothing that was going on. These ignorant novices
thought there was no use in having authority unless it were exercised.
So they began to crack their ecclesiastical whip, and the peace of
the church was disturbed. Things went from bad to worse till the whole
congregation went to pieces. Thus a good work was destroyed by the
folly of two ignorant, self-important preachers. Much mischief has
been done in our reformatory work by hasty organization. Like the
New Testament churches, we should have no ordained officers till
we have material out of which to make them.

About September 10, 1865, I was stricken down with typhoid fever. I had
a good physician, and he nursed me with the utmost care.
During that sickness he came to see me a _hundred and thirty_ times.
For over seven weeks there was not a hopeful symptom. He allowed no
company in the room but my wife and the nurses. He appointed good
brethren to nurse me, each night about. No one else was allowed to
touch me, except my wife. I did not see my two little children for
over two months, though they were all the time in the house. After
seven weeks he told me that for the first time he saw a slight
indication of recovery. After I became convalescent, he said, in
talking over the case, that he could attribute my recovery to but
two things--my confidence all the time that I should get well, and the
faith I had in my physician. He determined this latter by saying that
I followed his direction minutely in everything.

Theologically, he could not have given a better definition of faith.

He was a Baptist.

I never gave up for a moment, and would not allow my mother to be sent
for till I was far on the road to recovery. I got out for the
first time on Christmas day, but it was a year before I was
able to resume regular preaching; and even then, and for a long
time afterwards, I felt the effects of this terrible disease. Had
it not been for the close attention of the doctor, and the good
nursing of my dear wife and kind brethren, I am sure that attack of
sickness would have sent me to my grave. Truly, God has been very
merciful to me in giving me friends wherever I have lived, and I have
ever felt I could not be grateful enough or diligent enough in the
service of my Redeemer and His church to repay Him or them for all
this undeserved goodness.

CHAPTER XII.

Sells Out at Alexandria. Moves to Crittenden. Preaches there and at
Williamstown. Low State of these Churches. Plan of Work. Memorizing in
Sunday-school. Lack of Church Discipline. One-Man System. Moves to
New Liberty. Visits Mount Byrd.

In the spring of 1866, we sold out at Alexandria, and spent most of the
summer in Oldham county, among our friends, while I was recuperating
my health.

The meeting-house at La Grange had been blown down in a storm, and
at the solicitation of the church I visited a number of congregations
and obtained help to rebuild it. Midway was one of the places visited.
Bro.
Franklin was there holding a meeting. This was my first acquaintance
with that grand hero of the Cross of Christ.

In September we moved to Crittenden, Ky. I preached for that church
and at Williamstown, each half the time, for the rest of that year, and
for 1867. The churches were both at low ebb. They had had no
regular preaching for some time; had not met on Lord's day; had no
discipline; and everything was in decay and disorder.

I decided upon a plan of work for each church. The first point was to
get them to meet on the Lord's day and break the loaf, having
social worship, when I could not be with them. This done, we
carefully revised the church records, excluding whom we could
not induce to attend the house of the Lord and to try to discharge their
Christian duties. This was followed by protracted meetings at
neighboring school-houses, through which quite a number were added to
both churches. Meetings were then held in each church. By this time
both churches were in a prosperous condition. They both had good
Sunday-schools, and a number of members were taking an active part in
the work of the church. We disposed of the old house in Williamstown,
and got the new house roofed in 1867.

We also repaired the house at Crittenden, getting it in nice order,
and putting in a baptistery.

For the year 1868, the church at Crittenden wanted all my time, and I
gave up the church at Williamstown, devoting all my energies to the one
church. We arranged a book in which each member promised to pay
so much a week. Envelopes were given them, through which they were to
pay their weekly installment on each Lord's day. The congregations
were large and regular, and double the amount of money was thus collected
that had ever been raised before.

That was before the days of Sunday-school "helps," and we made
memorizing the Scriptures a prominent feature in the work. The first
of January, 1868, I offered a reward to the one memorizing and repeating
the most Scripture that year. Quite a number started in to win the
prize, but it was soon evident that the contest was between three
girls. The amount of Scripture memorized was immense. All the scholars
memorized largely. Soon it required a teacher's whole time to hear the
verses of one of those girls. Then we had them recite during the
week; and, finally, I had them examined on the Scripture
committed, repeating here and there as called on. This was harder
than repeating it all. The first of June another little girl
entered the lists. On the day they were examined they could
repeat with ease and accuracy any passage committed to memory
during the year. They were examined for several hours.

Incredible as it may appear, two of these girls committed the whole
Bible, and another committed Anderson's Translation of the New
Testament in addition; still another did not begin till June, and
committed the Bible by the end of the year. I never intended such
a result, nor can I approve that way of cramming the memory.

While the church at Crittenden was in other respects in a flourishing
condition (indeed, rather too much flourish), it was difficult to
get it to act promptly and strictly in the administration of
discipline.

The officers and church generally had more lax ideas on that subject
than I had.

But in this particular I suppose they were about on a par with most
other congregations in Kentucky, both among our people and others.

Indeed, I must confess that at that time I was unusually strict
in such matters. I wanted everything pertaining to the church to come
square up to the mark in all respects, and I was unnecessarily
worried over every shortcoming. On account of not having discipline
attended to as strictly as I desired, I was disposed to resign at the
close of 1868. But the elders promised more hearty coöperation in the
matter, and I accepted for another year conditionally. I
stated publicly that I would begin on three months' trial, and if
at the end of that time the church had not so coöperated with me as
to effect certain ends, our engagement would close. I did not
succeed in getting the coöperation desired, and the first Lord's day
in April I announced to a crowded house that my relation to them as
preacher had closed. It fell upon them like a thunder-clap from
a clear sky. I stated the reasons, which they understood, but had not
regarded. Thus ended my ministry with that church.

My preaching at Crittenden, and the subsequent history of the church,
impressed upon me a very important lesson, upon which I acted in after
life. While everything was "booming," I could not teach them
self-reliance. They depended upon me. I had to take the lead in everything.
Consequently, when I left, it was just like taking the engine off a
big lot of machinery. Everything came to a standstill. I feared this,
and tried to guard against it. The material, however, was of such a
nature that it was next to impossible to get them to go forward in
church work without being led. But I was so impressed with the virtual
loss of my work then, that I made it a special point, ever after,
to develop the church in self-reliance, and make it largely
independent of a preacher.

In 1869 I decided that it was not best for the Master's cause for me
to longer give all my time to the Crittenden church, as I wanted
them to learn to do without me.

So the first of January I engaged to preach for the church at New
Liberty, Owen county, one-half my time.

Resigning at Crittenden in April, in May I moved to New Liberty. Here
I found a good, substantial set of brethren, and did a substantial work.
We soon had a good Sunday-school, renovated the house, cut off a lot
of dead material, and got the church in good working order.

In May, 1869, I held a successful meeting in Owenton, and established
the cause in that place. Up to this time we had no organization
there.
In 1870 I held them the second meeting. The cause continued to grow
there. In a few years they built a house of worship. The church has
generally been in a prosperous condition.

In August of this year, I held another meeting for my old home church,
Pleasant Hill. It resulted in a goodly number of additions. It was
always a peculiar pleasure to hold a meeting among these old
associates, and I held quite a number.
In August, 1869, Bro. I. B. Grubbs and I met at Mt. Byrd to hold a
protracted meeting. It was the first in their new house, after its
completion. We had an enjoyable and successful meeting. This was
my introduction to Mt. Byrd, which has since afforded me a home,
has stood by me through good and evil fortune, has never wavered
in its devotion and fidelity, and among whose good members my frail
body will rest, till it rises in the likeness of Christ.
Here I might as well express my views upon the lack of church
discipline, as they have been formed from an extensive observation
in this and other States. I must, however, do this briefly. No one
can read the epistles of the apostles, and especially those of Paul,
and not be profoundly impressed with the belief that the administration
of discipline engaged a large share of their attention; and we may
infer the necessity of this from the very nature of the case. The
first churches were largely formed of Gentile converts, and these
came from heathenism; and they had to be recovered from its debasing
practices; and even the converts from among the Jews had to be
reformed from many evil ways.What effect would it have
upon the presidential election of 1856? Already the "Union" suggested
that it was whispered that Cass was willing to propose and favor such
a "repeal." It was given out in the "Baltimore Sun" that Cass intended
to "separate the sheep from the goats." Both statements were untrue;
but they perhaps had their intended effect, to arouse the jealousy and
eagerness of Douglas. The political air of Washington was heavy with
clouds and mutterings, and clans were gathering for and against the
ominous proposition.

So far as history has been allowed a glimpse into these secret
communings, three principal personages were at this time planning a
movement of vast portent. These were Stephen A. Douglas, chairman of
the Senate Committee on Territories; Archibald Dixon, Whig Senator
from Kentucky; and David R. Atchison, of Missouri, then president
_pro tempore_ of the Senate, and acting Vice-President of the
United States. "'For myself,' said the latter in explaining the
transaction, 'I am entirely devoted to the interest of the South, and
I would sacrifice everything but my hope of heaven to advance her
welfare.' He thought the Missouri Compromise ought to be repealed; he
had pledged himself in his public addresses to vote for no territorial
organization that would not virtually annul it; and with this feeling
in his heart he desired to be the chairman of the Senate Committee on
Territories when a bill was introduced. With this object in view, he
had a private interview with Mr. Douglas, and informed him of what he
desired--the introduction of a bill for Nebraska like what
[_sic_] he had promised to vote for, and that he would like to be
the chairman of the Committee on Territories in order to introduce
such a measure; and, if he could get that position, he would
immediately resign as president of the Senate. Judge Douglas requested
twenty-four hours to consider the matter, and if at the expiration of
that time he could not introduce such a bill as he (Mr. Atchison)
proposed, he would resign as chairman of the Territorial Committee in
Democratic caucus, and exert his influence to get him (Atchison)
appointed. At the expiration of the given time, Senator Douglas
signified his intention to introduce such a bill as had been spoken
of." [Footnote: Speech at Atchison City, September, 1854, reported in
the "Parkville Luminary."]

Senator Dixon is no less explicit in his description of these
political negotiations. "My amendment seemed to take the Senate by
surprise, and no one appeared more startled than Judge Douglas
himself. He immediately came to my seat and courteously remonstrated
against my amendment, suggesting that the bill which he had introduced
was almost in the words of the territorial acts for the organization
of Utah and. New Mexico; that they being a part of the compromise
measures of 1850 he had hoped that I, a known and zealous friend of
the wise and patriotic adjustment which had then taken place, would
not be inclined to do anything to call that adjustment in question or
weaken it before the country.

"I replied that it was precisely because I had been and was a firm and
zealous friend of the Compromise of 1850 that I felt bound to persist
in the movement which I had originated; that I was well satisfied that
the Missouri Restriction, if not expressly repealed, would continue to
operate in the territory to which it had been applied, thus negativing
the great and salutary principle of _non-intervention_ which
constituted the most prominent and essential feature of the plan of
settlement of 1850. We talked for some time amicably, and separated.
Some days afterwards Judge Douglas came to my lodgings, whilst I was
confined by physical indisposition, and urged me to get up and take a
ride with him in his carriage. I accepted his invitation, and rode out
with him. During our short excursion we talked on the subject of my
proposed amendment, and Judge Douglas, to my high gratification,
proposed to me that I should allow him to take charge of the amendment
and ingraft it on his territorial bill. I acceded to the proposition
at once, whereupon a most interesting interchange occurred between us.

"On this occasion Judge Douglas spoke to me in substance thus: 'I have
become perfectly satisfied that it is my duty, as a fair-minded
national statesman, to cooperate with you as proposed, in securing the
repeal of the Missouri Compromise restriction. It is due to the South;
it is due to the Constitution, heretofore palpably infracted; it is
due to that character for consistency which I have heretofore labored
to maintain. The repeal, if we can effect it, will produce much stir
and commotion in the free States of the Union for a season. I shall be
assailed by demagogues and fanatics there without stint or moderation.
Every opprobrious epithet will be applied to me. I shall be probably
hung in effigy in many places. It is more than probable that I may
become permanently odious among those whose friendship and esteem I
have heretofore possessed. This proceeding may end my political
career. But, acting under the sense of the duty which animates me, I
am prepared to make the sacrifice. I will do it.'

"He spoke in the most earnest and touching manner, and I confess that
I was deeply affected. I said to him in reply: 'Sir, I once recognized
you as a demagogue, a mere party manager, selfish and intriguing. I
now find you a warm-hearted and sterling patriot. Go forward in the
pathway of duty as you propose, and though all the world desert you, I
never will.'" [Footnote: Archibald Dixon to H. S. Foote, October 1,
1858. "Louisville Democrat" of October 3, 1858.]

[Sidenote: "Globe," Feb. 15, 1864, p. 421.]

Such is the circumstantial record of this remarkable political
transaction left by two prominent and principal instigators, and never
denied nor repudiated by the third. Gradually, as the plot was
developed, the agreement embraced the leading elements of the
Democratic party in Congress, reenforced by a majority of the Whig
leaders from the slave States. A day or two before the final
introduction of the repeal, Douglas and others held an interview with
President Pierce, [Transcriber's Note: Lengthy footnote (1) relocated
to chapter end.] and obtained from him in writing an agreement to adopt
the movement as an Administration measure. Fortified with this
important adhesion, Douglas took the fatal plunge, and on January 23
introduced his third Nebraska bill, organizing two territories instead
of one, and declaring the Missouri Compromise "inoperative." But the
amendment--monstrous Caliban of legislation as it was--needed to be
still further licked into shape to satisfy the designs of the South and
appease the alarmed conscience of the North. Two weeks later, after the
first outburst of debate, the following phraseology was substituted:
"Which being inconsistent with the principle of non-intervention by
Congress with slavery in the States and Territories, as recognized by
the legislation of 1850 (commonly called the Compromise measures), is
hereby declared inoperative and void; it being the true intent and
meaning of this act not to legislate slavery into any Territory or
State, nor to exclude it therefrom, but to leave the people thereof
perfectly free to form and regulate their domestic institutions in
their own way, subject only to the Constitution"--a change which Benton
truthfully characterized as "a stump speech injected into the belly of
the Nebraska bill." "She has missed me," said Rodolphe, pulling from his
wound a stiletto, which had been turned by one of the false ribs.

"But a little higher up it would have been deep in my heart.--I was
wrong, Francesca," he went on, remembering the name he had heard
little Gina repeat several times; "I owe her no grudge, do not scold
her. The happiness of speaking to you is well worth the prick of a
stiletto. Only show me the way out; I must get back to the
Stopfers' house. Be easy; I shall tell nothing."
Francesca, recovering from her astonishment, helped Rodolphe to rise,
and said a few words to Gina, whose eyes filled with tears. The two
girls made him sit down on a bench and take off his coat, his waistcoat
and cravat. Then Gina opened his shirt and sucked the wound strongly.
Francesca, who had left them, returned with a large piece of
sticking-plaster, which she applied to the wound.

"You can now walk as far as your house," she said.

Each took an arm, and Rodolphe was conducted to a side gate, of which
the key was in Francesca's apron pocket.

"Does Gina speak French?" said Rodolphe to Francesca.

"No. But do not excite yourself," replied Francesca with some
impatience.

"Let me look at you," said Rodolphe pathetically, "for it may be
long before I am able to come again---"
He leaned against one of the gate-posts contemplating the beautiful
Italian, who allowed him to gaze at her for a moment under the sweetest
silence and the sweetest night which ever, perhaps, shone on this lake,
the king of Swiss lakes.

Francesca was quite of the Italian type, and such as imagination
supposes or pictures, or, if you will, dreams, that Italian women
are.
What first struck Rodolphe was the grace and elegance of a figure
evidently powerful, though so slender as to appear fragile.

An amber paleness overspread her face, betraying sudden interest, but
it did not dim the voluptuous glance of her liquid eyes of velvety
blackness.
A pair of hands as beautiful as ever a Greek sculptor added
to the polished arms of a statue grasped Rodolphe's arm, and their
whiteness gleamed against his black coat. The rash Frenchman could but
just discern the long, oval shape of her face, and a melancholy mouth
showing brilliant teeth between the parted lips, full, fresh, and
brightly red. The exquisite lines of this face guaranteed to Francesca
permanent beauty; but what most struck Rodolphe was the adorable
freedom, the Italian frankness of this woman, wholly absorbed as
she was in her pity for him.

Francesca said a word to Gina, who gave Rodolphe her arm as far as
the Stopfers' door, and fled like a swallow as soon as she had rung.

"These patriots do not play at killing!"

said Rodolphe to himself as he felt his sufferings when he found
himself in his bed. "'_Nel lago!'_ Gina would have pitched me into
the lake with a stone tied to my neck."
Next day he sent to Lucerne for the best surgeon there, and when
he came, enjoined on him absolute secrecy, giving him to
understand that his honor depended on it.

Leopold returned from his excursion on the day when his friend first got
out of bed. Rodolphe made up a story, and begged him to go to
Lucerne to fetch their luggage and letters. Leopold brought
back the most fatal, the most dreadful news: Rodolphe's mother was dead.
While the two friends were on their way from Bale to Lucerne,
the fatal letter, written by Leopold's father, had reached
Lucerne the day they left for Fluelen.

In spite of Leopold's utmost precautions, Rodolphe fell ill of a
nervous fever. As soon as Leopold saw his friend out of danger, he
set out for France with a power of attorney, and Rodolphe could thus
remain at Gersau, the only place in the world where his grief could
grow calmer. The young Frenchman's position, his despair, the
circumstances which made such a loss worse for him than for any other
man, were known, and secured him the pity and interest of every one
in Gersau. Every morning the pretended dumb girl came to see him
and bring him news of her mistress.

As soon as Rodolphe could go out he went to the Bergmanns' house, to
thank Miss Fanny Lovelace and her father for the interest they had taken
in his sorrow and his illness. For the first time since he had lodged
with the Bergmanns the old Italian admitted a stranger to his room,
where Rodolphe was received with the cordiality due to his misfortunes
and to his being a Frenchman, which excluded all distrust of him.
Francesca looked so lovely by candle-light that first evening that
she shed a ray of brightness on his grieving heart. Her smiles
flung the roses of hope on his woe. She sang, not indeed gay songs,
but grave and solemn melodies suited to the state of Rodolphe's heart,
and he observed this touching care.

At about eight o'clock the old man left the young people without
any sign of uneasiness, and went to his room.

When Francesca was tired of singing, she led Rodolphe on to the balcony,
whence they perceived the sublime scenery of the lake, and signed
to him to be seated by her on a rustic wooden bench.

"Am I very indiscreet in asking how old you are, cara Francesca?" said
Rodolphe.

"Nineteen," said she, "well past."
"If anything in the world could soothe my sorrow," he went on, "it would
be the hope of winning you from your father, whatever your fortune may
be. So beautiful as you are, you seem to be richer than a prince's
daughter. And I tremble as I confess to you the feelings with which
you have inspired me; but they are deep--they are eternal."
"_Zitto_!" said Francesca, laying a finger of her right hand on her
lips. "Say no more; I am not free. I have been married these three
years."

For a few minutes utter silence reigned. When the Italian girl, alarmed
at Rodolphe's stillness, went close to him, she found that he had
fainted.

"_Povero_!" she said to herself. "And I thought him cold."
She fetched him some salts, and revived Rodolphe by making him
smell at them.

"Married!" said Rodolphe, looking at Francesca. And then his tears flowed
freely.

"Child!" said she. "But there is still hope. My husband is--"
"Eighty?" Rodolphe put in.

"No," said she with a smile, "but sixty-five. He has disguised
himself as much older to mislead the police."
"Dearest," said Rodolphe, "a few more shocks of this kind and I
shall die. Only when you have known me twenty years will you
understand the strength and power of my heart, and the nature of its
aspirations for happiness.

This plant," he went on, pointing to the yellow jasmine which
covered the balustrade, "does not climb more eagerly to spread
itself in the sunbeams than I have clung to you for this month past.
I love you with unique passion. That love will be the secret fount
of my life--I may possibly die of it."
"Oh! Frenchman, Frenchman!" said she, emphasizing her exclamation with
a little incredulous grimace.

"Shall I not be forced to wait, to accept you at the hands of time?"

said he gravely. "But know this: if you are in earnest in what
you have allowed to escape you, I will wait for you faithfully,
without suffering any other attachment to grow up in my heart."

She looked at him doubtfully.

"None," said he, "not even a passing fancy. I have my fortune to make;
you must have a splendid one, nature created you a princess----"

At this word Francesca could not repress a faint smile, which gave her
face the most bewildering expression, something subtle, like what the
great Leonardo has so well depicted in the _Gioconda_. This smile
made Rodolphe pause. "Ah yes!" he went on, "you must suffer much
from the destitution to which exile has brought you. Oh, if you would
make me happy above all men, and consecrate my love, you would treat
me as a friend. Ought I not to be your friend?--My poor mother
has left sixty thousand francs of savings; take half."
Francesca looked steadily at him. This piercing gaze went to the bottom
of Rodolphe's soul.

"We want nothing; my work amply supplies our luxuries," she replied
in a grave voice.

"And can I endure that a Francesca should work?" cried he. "One day
you will return to your country and find all you left there." Again
the Italian girl looked at Rodolphe. "And you will then repay
me what you may have condescended to borrow," he added, with an
expression full of delicate feeling.

"Let us drop the subject," said she, with incomparable dignity of
gesture, expression, and attitude. "Make a splendid fortune, be
one of the remarkable men of your country; that is my desire. Fame is
a drawbridge which may serve to cross a deep gulf. Be ambitious if
you must. I believe you have great and powerful talents, but use
them rather for the happiness of mankind than to deserve me; you
will be all the greater in my eyes."
In the course of this conversation, which lasted two hours, Rodolphe
discovered that Francesca was an enthusiast for Liberal ideas, and
for that worship of liberty which had led to the three revolutions
in Naples, Piemont, and Spain. On leaving, he was shown to the door by
Gina, the so-called mute. At eleven o'clock no one was astir in
the village, there was no fear of listeners; Rodolphe took Gina
into a corner, and asked her in a low voice and bad Italian, "Who
are your master and mistress, child?

Tell me, I will give you this fine new gold piece."
"Monsieur," said the girl, taking the coin, "my master is the famous
bookseller Lamporani of Milan, one of the leaders of the revolution,
and the conspirator of all others whom Austria would most like to
have in the Spielberg."
"A bookseller's wife! Ah, so much the better," thought he; "we are
on an equal footing.--And what is her family?" he added, "for
she looks like a queen."
"All Italian women do," replied Gina proudly. "Her father's name is
Colonna."
Emboldened by Francesca's modest rank, Rodolphe had an awning fitted
to his boat and cushions in the stern. When this was done, the lover
came to propose to Francesca to come out on the lake. The Italian
accepted, no doubt to carry out her part of a young English Miss in the
eyes of the villagers, but she brought Gina with her. Francesca
Colonna's lightest actions betrayed a superior education and the
highest social rank. By the way in which she took her place at the end
of the boat Rodolphe felt himself in some sort cut off from her, and,
in the face of a look of pride worthy of an aristocrat, the
familiarity he had intended fell dead. By a glance Francesca
made herself a princess, with all the prerogatives she might have
enjoyed in the Middle Ages. She seemed to have read the thoughts of
this vassal who was so audacious as to constitute himself her
protector.

Already, in the furniture of the room where Francesca had received
him, in her dress, and in the various trifles she made use of,
Rodolphe had detected indications of a superior character and a
fine fortune.

All these observations now recurred to his mind; he became thoughtful
after having been trampled on, as it were, by Francesca's dignity. Gina,
her half-grown-up _confidante_, also seemed to have a mocking
expression as she gave a covert or a side glance at Rodolphe.
This obvious disagreement between the Italian lady's rank and her
manners was a fresh puzzle to Rodolphe, who suspected some further
trick like Gina's assumed dumbness.

"Where would you go, Signora Lamporani?" he asked.

"Towards Lucerne," replied Francesca in French.

"Good!" said Rodolphe to himself, "she is not startled by hearing me
speak her name; she had, no doubt, foreseen that I should ask Gina
--she is so cunning.

--What is your quarrel with me?" he went on, going at last to sit down
by her side, and asking her by a gesture to give him her hand, which
she withdrew. "You are cold and ceremonious; what, in colloquial
language, we should call _short_."
"It is true," she replied with a smile. "I am wrong. It is not good
manners; it is vulgar. In French you would call it inartistic. It
is better to be frank than to harbor cold or hostile feelings towards
a friend, and you have already proved yourself my friend. Perhaps
I have gone too far with you. You must take me to be a very ordinary
woman." --Rodolphe made many signs of denial.--"Yes," said the
bookseller's wife, going on without noticing this pantomime, which,
however, she plainly saw. "I have detected that, and naturally I
have reconsidered my conduct. Well! I will put an end to everything by
a few words of deep truth.

Understand this, Rodolphe: I feel in myself the strength to stifle
a feeling if it were not in harmony with my ideas or anticipation
of what true love is.

I could love--as we can love in Italy, but I know my duty.

No intoxication can make me forget it.
Married without my consent to that poor old man, I might take advantage
of the liberty he so generously gives me; but three years of married
life imply acceptance of its laws. Hence the most vehement passion
would never make me utter, even involuntarily, a wish to
find myself free.

"Emilio knows my character. He knows that without my heart, which
is my own, and which I might give away, I should never allow anyone
to take my hand. That is why I have just refused it to you. I desire
to be loved and waited for with fidelity, nobleness, ardor, while all
I can give is infinite tenderness of which the expression may not
overstep the boundary of the heart, the permitted neutral ground. All
this being thoroughly understood--Oh!" she went on with a girlish
gesture, "I will be as coquettish, as gay, as glad, as a child
which knows nothing of the dangers of familiarity."
This plain and frank declaration was made in a tone, an accent, and
supported by a look which gave it the deepest stamp of truth.

"A Princess Colonna could not have spoken better," said Rodolphe,
smiling.

"Is that," she answered with some haughtiness, "a reflection on
the humbleness of my birth? Must your love flaunt a coat-of-arms? At
Milan the noblest names are written over shop-doors: Sforza, Canova,
Visconti, Trivulzio, Ursini; there are Archintos apothecaries; but,
believe me, though I keep a shop, I have the feelings of a duchess."

"A reflection? Nay, madame, I meant it for praise."

"By a comparison?" she said archly.

"Ah, once for all," said he, "not to torture me if my words should
ill express my feelings, understand that my love is perfect; it
carries with it absolute obedience and respect."
She bowed as a woman satisfied, and said, "Then monsieur accepts the
treaty?"
"Yes," said he. "I can understand that in a rich and powerful
feminine nature the faculty of loving ought not to be wasted, and that
you, out of delicacy, wished to restrain it. Ah! Francesca, at
my age tenderness requited, and by so sublime, so royally beautiful
a creature as you are--why, it is the fulfilment of all my wishes.

To love you as you desire to be loved--is not that enough to make a
young man guard himself against every evil folly? Is it not to
concentrate all his powers in a noble passion, of which in the future
he may be proud, and which can leave none but lovely memories? If you
could but know with what hues you have clothed the chain of Pilatus,
the Rigi, and this superb lake--"
"I want to know," said she, with the Italian artlessness which has
always a touch of artfulness.

"Well, this hour will shine on all my life like a diamond on a
queen's brow."

Francesca's only reply was to lay her hand on Rodolphe's.

"Oh dearest! for ever dearest!--Tell me, have you never loved?"
"Never."
"And you allow me to love you nobly, looking to heaven for the
utmost fulfilment?" he asked.

She gently bent her head. Two large tears rolled down
Rodolphe's cheeks.

"Why! what is the matter?" she cried, abandoning her imperial manner.

"I have now no mother whom I can tell of my happiness; she left this
earth without seeing what would have mitigated her agony--"
"What?" said she.

"Her tenderness replaced by an equal tenderness----"
"_Povero mio_!" exclaimed the Italian, much touched. "Believe
me," she went on after a pause, "it is a very sweet thing, and to
a woman, a strong element of fidelity to know that she is all in all
on earth to the man she loves; to find him lonely, with no family,
with nothing in his heart but his love--in short, to have him wholly
to herself."
When two lovers thus understand each other, the heart feels delicious
peace, supreme tranquillity. Certainty is the basis for which human
feelings crave, for it is never lacking to religious sentiment; man
is always certain of being fully repaid by God. Love never believes
itself secure but by this resemblance to divine love. And the
raptures of that moment must have been fully felt to be understood;
it is unique in life; it can never return no more, alas! than the
emotions of youth. To believe in a woman, to make her your human
religion, the fount of life, the secret luminary of all your least
thoughts!--is not this a second birth? And a young man mingles with
this love a little of the feeling he had for his mother.
Rodolphe and Francesca for some time remained in perfect silence,
answering each other by sympathetic glances full of thoughts. They
understood each other in the midst of one of the most beautiful
scenes of Nature, whose glories, interpreted by the glory in their
hearts, helped to stamp on their minds the most fugitive details
of that unique hour. There had not been the slightest shade of
frivolity in Francesca's conduct. It was noble, large, and without
any second thought. This magnanimity struck Rodolphe greatly, for
in it he recognized the difference between the Italian and the
Frenchwoman. The waters, the land, the sky, the woman, all were
grandiose and suave, even their love in the midst of this picture,
so vast in its expanse, so rich in detail, where the sternness of
the snowy peaks and their hard folds standing clearly out against
the blue sky, reminded Rodolphe of the circumstances which limited
his happiness; a lovely country shut in by snows.
This delightful intoxication of soul was destined to be disturbed.
A boat was approaching from Lucerne; Gina, who had been watching
it attentively, gave a joyful start, though faithful to her part
as a mute. The bark came nearer; when at length Francesca could
distinguish the faces on board, she exclaimed, "Tito!" as she
perceived a young man. She stood up, and remained standing at the
risk of being drowned.
"Tito! Tito!" cried she, waving her handkerchief.
Tito desired the boatmen to slacken, and the two boats pulled side
by side. The Italian and Tito talked with such extreme rapidity,
and in a dialect unfamiliar to a man who hardly knew even the Italian
of books, that Rodolphe could neither hear nor guess the drift of
this conversation. But Tito's handsome face, Francesca's familiarity,
and Gina's expression of delight, all aggrieved him. And indeed no
lover can help being ill pleased at finding himself neglected for
another, whoever he may be. Tito tossed a little leather bag to
Gina, full of gold no doubt, and a packet of letters to Francesca,
who began to read them, with a farewell wave of the hand to Tito.
"Get quickly back to Gersau," she said to the boatmen, "I will not
let my poor Emilio pine ten minutes longer than he need."
"What has happened?" asked Rodolphe, as he saw Francesca finish
reading the last letter.
"_La liberta_!" she exclaimed, with an artist's enthusiasm.
"_E denaro_!" added Gina, like an echo, for she had found her
tongue.
"Yes," said Francesca, "no more poverty! For more than eleven months
have I been working, and I was beginning to be tired of it.Under this rule,
notwithstanding the most strenuous efforts to rescind it, Nathaniel P.
Banks, of Massachusetts, was chosen Speaker by 103 votes, against 100
votes for William Aiken, of South Carolina, with thirty scattering.
The "ruthless" repeal of the Missouri Compromise had effectually
broken the legislative power of the Democratic party.


CHAPTER XXI

LINCOLN AND TRUMBULL


[Sidenote: 1854.]

To follow closely the chain of events, growing out of the repeal of
the Missouri Compromise at Douglas's instigation, we must now examine
its effect upon the political fortunes of that powerful leader in his
own State.

The extreme length of Illinois from north to south is 385 miles; in
geographical situation it extends from the latitude of Massachusetts
and New York to that of Virginia and Kentucky. The great westward
stream of emigration in the United States had generally followed the
parallels of latitude. The pioneers planted their new homes as nearly
as might be in a climate like the one they had left. In process of
time, therefore, northern Illinois became peopled with settlers from
Northern or free States, bringing their antislavery traditions and
feelings; southern Illinois, with those from Southern or slave States,
who were as naturally pro-slavery. The Virginians and Kentuckians
readily became converts to the thrift and order of free society; but
as a class they never gave up or conquered their intense hatred of
antislavery convictions based on merely moral grounds, which they
indiscriminately stigmatized as "abolitionism." Impelled by this
hatred the lawless element of the community was often guilty of
persecution and violence in minor forms, and in 1837, as already
related, it prompted the murder of Lovejoy in the city of Alton by a
mob, for persisting in his right to publish his antislavery opinions.
This was its gravest crime. But a narrow spirit of intolerance
extending even down to the rebellion kept on the statute books a
series of acts prohibiting the settlement of free blacks in the State.

It was upon this field of radically diverse sentiment that in the year
1854 Douglas's sudden project of repeal fell like a thunderbolt out of
a clear sky. A Democratic Governor had been chosen two years before; a
Democratic Legislature, called together to consider merely local and
economic questions, was sitting in extra session at Springfield. There
was doubt and consternation over the new issue. The Governor and other
prudent partisans avoided a public committal. But the silence could
not be long maintained. Douglas was a despotic party leader, and
President Pierce had made the Nebraska bill an Administration
question. Above all, in Illinois, as elsewhere, the people at once
took up the discussion, and reluctant politicians were compelled to
avow themselves. The Nebraska bill with its repealing clause had been
before the country some three weeks and was yet pending in Congress
when a member of the Illinois Legislature introduced resolutions
indorsing it. Three Democratic State Senators, two from northern and
one from central Illinois, had the courage to rise and oppose the
resolutions in vigorous and startling speeches. They were N. B. Judd,
of Chicago, B. C. Cook, of La Salle, and John M. Palmer, of Macoupin.
This was an unusual party phenomenon and had its share in hastening
the general agitation throughout the State. Only two or three other
members took part in the discussion; the Democrats avoided the issue;
the Whigs hoped to profit by the dissension. There was the usual rush
of amendments and of parliamentary strategy, and the indorsing
resolutions, which finally passed in both Houses in ambiguous language
and by a diminished vote were shorn of much of their political
significance.

Party organization was strong in Illinois, and for the greater part,
as the popular discussion proceeded, the Democrats sustained and the
Whigs opposed the new measure. In the northern counties, where the
antislavery sentiment was general, there were a few successful efforts
to disband the old parties and create a combined opposition under the
new name of Republicans. This, it was soon apparent, would make
serious inroads on the existing Democratic majority. But an alarming
counter-movement in the central counties, which formed the Whig
stronghold, soon began to show itself. Douglas's violent denunciation
of "abolitionists" and "abolitionismn" appealed with singular power to
Whigs from slave States. The party was without a national leader; Clay
had died two years before, and Douglas made skillful quotations from
the great statesman's speeches to bolster up his new propagandism. In
Congress only a little handful of Southern Whigs opposed the repeal,
and even these did not dare place their opposition on antislavery
grounds. And especially the familiar voice and example of the
neighboring Missouri Whigs were given unhesitatingly to the support of
the Douglas scheme. Under these combined influences one or two erratic
but rather prominent Whigs in central Illinois declared their
adherence to Nebraskaism, and raised the hope that the Democrats would
regain in the center and south all they might lose in the northern
half of the State.

[Illustration:   LYMAN TRUMBULL]

One additional circumstance had its effect on public opinion. As has
been stated, in the opposition to Douglas's repeal the few avowed
abolitionists and the many pronounced Free-soilers, displaying
unwonted activity, came suddenly into the foreground to rouse and
organize public opinion, making it seem for the moment that they had
really assumed leadership and control in politics. This class of men
had long been held up to public odium. Some of them had, indeed, on
previous occasions used intemperate and offensive language; but more
generally they were denounced upon a gross misrepresentation of their
utterance and purpose. It so happened that they were mostly of
Democratic antecedents, which gave them great influence among
antislavery Democrats, but made their advice and arguments exceedingly
distasteful in strong Whig counties and communities. The fact that
they now became more prudent, conciliatory, and practical in their
speeches and platforms did not immediately remove existing prejudices
against them. A few of these appeared in Illinois. Cassius M. Clay
published a letter in which he advocated the fusion of anti-Nebraska
voters upon "Benton, Seward, Hale, or any other good citizen," and
afterwards made a series of speeches in Illinois. When he came to
Springfield, the Democratic officers in charge refused him the use of
the rotunda of the House, a circumstance, however, which only served
to draw him a larger audience in a neighboring grove. Later in the
summer Joshua B. Giddings and Salmon P. Chase, of Ohio, made a
political tour through the State, and at Springfield the future
Secretary and Chief-Justice addressed an unsympathetic audience of a
few hundreds in the dingy little court-house, almost unheralded, save
by the epithets of the Democratic newspapers. A few local speakers of
this class, of superior address and force, now also began to signalize
themselves by a new-born zeal and an attractive eloquence. Conspicuous
among these was Owen Lovejoy, of northern Illinois, brother of the man
who, for opinion's sake, had been murdered at Alton.

While thus in the northern half of Illinois the public condemnation of
Douglas's repeal was immediate and sweeping, the formation of
opposition to it was tentative and slow in the central and southern
counties, where, among Whigs of Southern birth, it proceeded rather
upon party feeling than upon moral conviction. The new question struck
through party lines in such a manner as to confuse and perplex the
masses. But the issue would not be postponed. The Congressional
elections were to be held in the autumn, and the succession of events
rather than the leadership of politicians gradually shaped the
campaign.

After a most exciting parliamentary struggle the repeal was carried
through Congress in May. Encouraged by this successful domination over
Representatives and Senators, Douglas prepared to force its acceptance
by the people. "I hear men now say," said he, "that they are willing
to acquiesce in it.... It is not sufficient that they shall not seek to
disturb Nebraska and Kansas, but they must acquiesce also in the
principle." [Footnote: Douglas's speech before the Union Democratic
Club of New York, June 3, 1854. New York "Herald," June 5, 1854.] In
the slave States this was an easy task. The most prominent Democrat
who had voted against the Nebraska bill was Thomas H. Benton. The
election in Missouri was held in August, and Benton was easily beaten
by a Whig who was as fierce for repeal as Douglas himself. In the free
States the case was altogether different. In Illinois the Democrats
gradually, but at last with a degree of boldness, shouldered the
dangerous dogma. The main body of the party rallied under Douglas,
excepting a serious defection in the north; on the other hand, the
Whigs in a body declared against him, but were weakened by a
scattering desertion in the center and south. Meanwhile both retained
their distinctive party names and organizations.

Congress adjourned early in August, but Douglas delayed his return to
Illinois. The 1st of September had come, when it was announced he
would return to his home in Chicago. This was an anti-slavery city,
and the current of popular condemnation and exasperation was running
strongly against him. Public meetings of his own former party friends
had denounced him. Street rowdies had burned him in effigy. The
opposition papers charged him with skulking and being afraid to meet
his constituents. On the afternoon of his coming many flags in the
city and on the shipping in the river and harbor were hung at half-
mast. At sunset sundry city bells were tolled for an hour to signify
the public mourning at his downfall. When he mounted the platform at
night to address a crowd of some five thousand listeners he was
surrounded by a little knot of personal friends, but the audience
before him was evidently cold if not actively hostile.

He began his speech, defending his course as well as he could. He
claimed that the slavery question was forever settled by his great
principle of "popular sovereignty," which took it out of Congress and
gave it to the people of the territories to decide as they pleased.
The crowd heard him in sullen silence for three-quarters of an hour,
when their patience gave out, and they began to ply him with
questions. He endured their fire of interrogatory for a little while
till he lost his own temper. Excited outcry followed angry repartee.
Thrust and rejoinder were mingled with cheers and hisses. The mayor,
who presided, tried to calm the assemblage, but the passions of the
crowd would brook no control. Douglas, of short, sturdy build and
imperious and controversial nature, stood his ground courageously,
with flushed and lowering countenance hurling defiance at his
interrupters, calling them a mob, and shaking his fist in their faces;
in reply the crowd groaned, hooted, yelled, and made the din of
Pandemonium. It was written out in small hand by the chaplain, and was
nearly three yards long.

What a sickening catalogue to be crowded into one brief life. Yet this
man was once an innocent child. A mother no doubt bent lovingly over
him, a father perhaps looked upon him in pride and joy, and imagination
saw him rise to manhood honored and trusted by his fellow-men. But
the boy chose the path of evil and wrong-doing regardless of the
record he was making, and finally committed an act, the penalty for
which was death, and he perished miserably upon the scaffold.

Dear readers, most of you are young, and your record is but just
commenced. Oh, be warned in time, and seek to have a list of
which you will not be ashamed when scanned by Jehovah, angels, and
men. Speak none but kind, loving words, have your thoughts and
aspirations pure and noble, crowd into your life all the _good_ deeds
you can, and thus crowd out _evil_ ones.

We should not forget that an account-book is kept by God, in which all
the events of our lives are recorded, and that even every thought
will be brought before us at the day of judgment. In that day God
will judge the secrets of men: he will bring to light the hidden
things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the
heart.

There is another book spoken of in the Bible. The book of life, and it
is said that no one can enter heaven whose name is not written in the
Lamb's book of life.

Angels are now weighing moral worth. The record will soon close, either
by death or the decree, "He that is unjust, let him be unjust
still, and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still; and he that
is righteous, let him be righteous still; and he that is holy let
him be holy still."

We have but one short, preparing hour in which to redeem the past and
get ready for the future. Our life record will soon be examined.
What shall it be!

MOTHER.

The silvery hairs are weaving A crown above her brow, But surely
mother never seemed One-half so sweet as now!

The love-light beams from out her eyes As clear, as sweet and true, As
when, with youthful beauty crowned, Life bloomed for her all new.

No thought of self doth ever cast A cloudlet o'er the light That
shines afar from out her soul, So steadfast, pure, and bright.

Her love illumes the darkest hour, Smooths all the rugged way, Makes
lighter every burden, Cheers through each weary day.

More precious than the rarest gem In all the world could be; More
sweet than honor, fame, and praise, Is mother's love to me.

THE RIGHT DECISION.

It was the beginning of vacation when Mr. Davis, a friend of my
father, came to see us, and asked to let me go home with him. I was
much pleased with the thought of going out of town. The journey was
delightful, and when we reached Mr.

Davis' house everything looked as if I were going to have a fine time.
Fred Davis, a boy about my own age, took me cordially by the hand, and
all the family soon seemed like old friends. "This is going to be
a vacation worth having," I said to myself several times during the
evening, as we all played games, told riddles, and laughed and chatted
merrily as could be.

At last Mrs. Davis said it was almost bedtime. Then I expected family
prayers, but we were very soon directed to our chambers. How strange
it seemed to me, for I had never before been in a household without the
family altar. "Come," said Fred, "mother says you and I are going to
be bedfellows," and I followed him up two pair of stairs to a nice
little chamber which he called his room; and he opened a drawer and
showed me a box, and boat, and knives, and powder-horn, and all his
treasures, and told me a world of new things about what the boys did
there. He undressed first and jumped into bed. I was much longer about
it, for a new set of thoughts began to rise in my mind.

When my mother put my portmanteau into my hand, just before the coach
started, she said tenderly, in a low tone, "Remember, Robert, that
you are a Christian boy." I knew very well what that meant, and I
had now just come to a point of time when her words were to be minded.
At home I was taught the duties of a Christian child; abroad I must
not neglect them, and one of these was evening prayer. From a very
little boy I had been in the habit of kneeling and asking the forgiveness
of God, for Jesus' sake, acknowledging his mercies, and seeking
his protection and blessing.

"Why don't you come to bed, Robert?" cried Fred. "What are you
sitting there for?" I was afraid to pray, and afraid not to pray. It
seemed that I could not kneel down and pray before Fred. What would
he say?
Would he not laugh? The fear of Fred made me a coward. Yet I could not
lie down on a prayerless bed. If I needed the protection of my
heavenly Father at home, how much more abroad. I wished many
wishes; that I had slept alone, that Fred would go to sleep, or
something else, I hardly knew what. But Fred would not go to sleep.

Perhaps struggles like these take place in the bosom of every one
when he leaves home and begins to act for himself, and on his
decision may depend his character for time, and for eternity.

With me the struggle was severe. At last, to Fred's cry, "Come, boy,
come to bed," I mustered courage to say, "I will kneel down and
pray first; that is always my custom." "Pray?" said Fred, turning
himself over on his pillow, and saying no more. His propriety of conduct
made me ashamed.
Here I had long been afraid of him, and yet when he knew my wishes
he was quiet and left me to myself. How thankful I was that duty
and conscience triumphed.

That settled my future course. It gave me strength for time to
come. I believe that the decision of the "Christian boy," by God's
blessing, made me the Christian man; for in after years I was thrown
amid trials and temptations which must have drawn me away from God
and from virtue, had it not been for my settled habit of secret
prayer.

Let every boy who has pious parents, read and think about this. You
have been trained in Christian duties and principles. When you go from
home do not leave them behind you. Carry them with you and stand by
them, and then in weakness and temptation, by God's help, they
will stand by you. Take a manly stand on the side of your God and
Saviour, of your father's God. It is by abandoning their Christian
birthright that so many boys go astray, and grow up to be young men
dishonoring parents, without hope and without God in the world.

Yes, we are boys, always playing with tongue or with pen, And I
sometimes have asked, shall we ever be men?

Will we always be youthful, and laughing and gay, Till the last
dear companions drop smiling away?
Then here's to our boyhood, its gold and its gray, The stars of its
winter, the dews of its May.
And when we have done with our life-lasting toys, Dear Father, take
care of thy children, the boys.

--_Oliver Wendell Holmes._

SUSIE'S PRAYER

It was a half-holiday. The children were gathered on the green and a
right merry time they were having.

"Come, girls and boys," called out Ned Graham, "let's play hunt the
squirrel."
All assented eagerly, and a large circle was formed with Ned Graham for
leader, because he was the largest.

"Come, Susie," said one of the boys, to a little girl who stood on one
side, and seemed to shrink from joining them.

"Oh, never mind _her_!" said Ned, with a little toss of his head,
"she's nobody, anyhow. Her father drinks."
A quick flush crept over the child's pale face as she heard the
cruel, thoughtless words.

She was very sensitive, and the arrow had touched her heart in its
tenderest place.

Her father _was_ a drunkard, she knew, but to be taunted with it
before so many was more than she could bear; and with great sobs
heaving from her bosom, and hot tears filling her eyes, she turned
and ran away from the playground.

Her mother was sitting by the window when she reached home, and the
tearful face of the little girl told that something had happened to
disturb her.

"What is the matter, Susie?" she asked, kindly.

"Oh mother," Susie said, with the tears dropping down her cheeks,
as she hid her face in her mother's lap, "Ned Graham said such a cruel
thing about me," and here the sobs choked her voice so that she could
hardly speak; "He said that I wasn't anybody, and that father drinks."

"My poor little girl," Mrs. Ellet said, very sadly. There were
tears in her eyes, too.

Such taunts as this were nothing new.

"Oh, mother," Susie said, as she lifted her face, wet with tears,
from her mother's lap, "I can't bear to have them say so, and just
as if _I_ had done something wicked. I wish father wouldn't drink!
Do you suppose he'll ever leave it off?"
"I hope so," Mrs. Ellet answered, as she kissed Susie's face where the
tears clung like drops of dew on a rose. "I pray that he may
break off the habit, and I can do nothing but pray, and leave the
rest to God."

That night Mr. Ellet came home to supper, as usual. He was a
hard-working man, and a good neighbor.

So everybody said, but he had the habit of intemperance so firmly fixed
upon him that everybody thought he would end his days in the drunkard's
grave. Susie kissed him when he came through the gate, as she always
did, but there was something in her face that went to his heart--a
look so sad, and full of touching sorrow for one so young as she!

"What ails my little girl?" he asked as he patted her curly head.

"I can't tell you, father," she answered, slowly.

"Why?" he asked.

"Because it would make you feel bad." Susie replied.

"I guess not," he said, as they walked up to the door together. "What
is it, Susie?"
"Oh, father," and Susie burst into tears again as the memory of Ned
Graham's words came up freshly in her mind, "I wish you wouldn't drink
any more, for the boys and girls don't like to play with me, 'cause you
do."
Mr. Ellet made no reply. But something stirred in his heart that made
him ashamed of himself; ashamed that he was the cause of so much
sorrow and misery. After supper he took his hat, and Mrs. Ellet
knew only too well where he was going.

At first he had resolved to stay at home that evening, but the force
of habit was so strong that he could not resist, and he yielded,
promising himself that he would not drink more than once or
twice.

Susie had left the table before he had finished his supper, and as he
passed the great clump of lilacs by the path, on his way to the
gate, he heard her voice and stopped to listen to what she was
saying.

"Oh, good Jesus, please don't let father drink any more. Make him just
as he used to be when I was a baby, and then the boys and girls can't
call me a drunkard's child, or say such bad things about me. Please,
dear Jesus, for mother's sake and mine."
Susie's father listened to her simple prayer with a great lump swelling
in his throat.

And when it was ended he went up to her, and knelt down by her side,
and put his arm around her, oh, so lovingly!

"God in Heaven," he said, very solemnly, "I promise to-night, never
to touch another drop of liquor as long as I live. Give me strength
to keep my pledge, and help me to be a better man."
"Oh, father," Susie cried, her arms about his neck, and her head upon
his breast, "I'm _so_ glad! I shan't care about anything they say to
me now, for I know you won't be a drunkard any more."
"God helping me, I will be a _man_!" he answered, as, taking Susie by
the hand he went back into the house where his wife was sitting with
the old patient look of sorrow on her face.

--the look that had become so habitual.

I cannot tell you of the joy and thanksgiving that went up from
that hearthstone that night. I wish I could, but it was too deep a joy
which filled the hearts of Susie and her mother to be described.

Was not Susie's prayer answered?

There is never a day so dreary, But God can make it bright.
And unto the soul that trusts him He giveth songs in the
night.

There is never a path so hidden, But God will show the way, If we
seek the Spirit's guidance, And patiently watch and pray.

       COMPANY MANNERS.

"Well," said Bessie, very emphatically, "I think Russell Morton is the
best boy there is, anyhow."
"Why so, pet?" I asked, settling myself in the midst of the busy group
gathered around in the firelight.

"I can tell," interrupted Wilfred, "Bessie likes Russ because he is so
polite."
"I don't care, you may laugh," said frank little Bess; "that _is_
the reason--at least, one of them.

       He's nice; he don't stamp and hoot in the house--and he never says,
'Halloo Bess,' or laughs when I fall on the ice."

"Bessie wants company manners all the time," said Wilfred. And Bell
added: "We should all act grown up, if she had her fastidiousness
suited."

       Bell, be it said in passing, is very fond of long words, and has
asked for a dictionary for her next birthday present.

Dauntless Bessie made haste to retort, "Well, if growing up would
make some folks more agreeable, it's a pity we can't hurry about it."

"Wilfred, what are company manners?" interposed I from the depths
of my easy chair.
"Why--why--they're--It's _behaving_, you know, when folks are here,
or we go a visiting."
"Company manners are good manners," said Horace,
"Oh yes," answered I, meditating on it. "I see; manners that are
_too_ good--for mamma--but just right for Mrs. Jones."
"That's it," cried Bess.
"But let us talk it over a bit. Seriously, why should you be more
polite to Mrs. Jones than to mamma? You don't love her better?"
"Oh my! no indeed," chorused the voices.
"Well, then, I don't see why Mrs. Jones should have all that's
agreeable; why the hats should come off, and the tones soften, and
'please,' and 'thank you,' and 'excuse me,' should abound in her
house, and not in mamma's." 
"Oh! that's very different."
"And mamma knows we mean all right. Besides, you are not fair,
cousin; we were talking about boys and girls--not grown up people."

Thus my little audience assailed me, and I was forced to a change
of base.
"Well, about boys and girls, then. Can not a boy be just as happy,
if, like our friend Russell, he is gentle to the little girls,
doesn't pitch his little brother in the snow, and respects the
rights of his cousins and intimate friends? It seems to me that
politeness is just as suitable to the playground as to the parlor."

"Oh, of course; if you'd have a fellow give up all fun," said
Wilfred.
"My dear boy," said I, "that isn't what I want. Run, and jump, and
shout as much as you please; skate, and slide, and snowball; but
do it with politeness to other boys and girls, and I'll agree you
will find just as much fun in it. You sometimes say I pet Burke
Holland more than any of my child-friends. Can I help it? For though
he is lively and sometimes frolicsome, his manners are always good.
You never see him with his chair tipped up, or his hat on in the
house. He never pushes ahead of you to get first out of the room.
If you are going out, he holds open the door; if weary, it is Burke
who brings a glass of water, places a chair, hands a fan, springs
to pick up your handkerchief--and all this without being told to
do so, or interfering with his own gaiety in the least.
"This attention isn't only given to me as the guest, or to Mrs.
Jones when he visits her, but to mamma, Aunt Jennie, and little
sister, just as carefully; at home, in school, or at play, there
is always just as much guard against rudeness. His courtesy is not
merely for state occasions, but a well-fitting garment worn constantly.
His manliness is genuine loving-kindness. In fact, that is exactly
what real politeness is; carefulness for others, and watchfulness
over ourselves, lest our angles shall interfere with their comfort."

It is impossible for boys and girls to realize, until they have
grown too old to easily adopt new ones, how important it is to guard
against contracting carelessness and awkward habits of speech and
manners.
Some very unwisely think it is not necessary to be so very particular
about these things except when company is present. But this is a
grave mistake, for coarseness will betray itself in spite of the
most watchful sentinelship.
It is impossible to indulge in one form of speech, or have one set
of manners at home, and another abroad, because in moments of
confusion or bashfulness, such as every young person feels sometimes
who is sensitive and modest, the habitual mode of expression will
discover itself.
It is not, however, merely because refinement of speech and grace
of manners are pleasing to the sense, that our young friends are
recommended to cultivate and practice them, but because outward
refinement of any sort reacts as it were on the character and makes
it more sweet and gentle and lovable, and these are qualities that
attract and draw about the possessor a host of kind friends.Allow all the governed an equal voice in the
government; that, and that only, is self-government.

       *       *       *       *       *

Slavery is founded in the selfishness of man's nature--opposition to
it, in his love of justice. These principles are an eternal
antagonism; and when brought into collision so fiercely as slavery
extension brings them, shocks and throes and convulsions must
ceaselessly follow. The Contessa understood.' How ill she!' she
thought;'and how distinguished! Nebraska' And presently Eleanor her*
side, while she was talking nervously and fast on a many disconnected
subjects, found observing hostess

       

.
I object to
it because it assumes that there can be moral right in the enslaving
of one man by another. I object to it as a dangerous dalliance for a
free people,--a sad evidence that feeling prosperity, we forget
right,--that liberty as a principle we have ceased to revere.

       *       *       *       *       *

Little by little, but steadily as man's march to the grave, we have
been giving up the old for the new faith. Near eighty years ago we
began by declaring that all men are created equal; but now from that
beginning we have run down to the other declaration that for some men
to enslave others is a "sacred right of self-government." These
principles cannot stand together. They are as opposite as God and
mammon.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Republican robe is soiled and trailed in the dust. Let us repurify
it. Let us turn and wash it white, in the spirit if not the blood of
the Revolution. Let us turn slavery from its claims of "moral right"
back upon its existing legal rights, and its arguments of "necessity."
Let us return it to the position our fathers gave it, and there let it
rest in peace. Let us readopt the Declaration of Independence, and the
practices and policy which harmonize with it. Let North and South--let
all Americans--let all lovers of liberty everywhere--join in the great
and good work. If we do this, we shall not only have saved the Union,
but we shall have so saved it, as to make and to keep it forever
worthy of the saving. We shall have so saved it that the succeeding
millions of free, happy people, the world over, shall rise up and call
us blessed to the latest generations.


[Sidenote: 1864.]

The election which, occurred on November 7 resulted disastrously for
Douglas. It was soon found that the Legislature on joint ballot would
probably give a majority for Senator against Shields, the incumbent,
or any other Democrat who had supported the Nebraska bill. Who might
become his successor was more problematical. The opposition majority
was made up of anti-Nebraska Democrats, of what were then called
"abolitionists" (Lovejoy had been elected among these), and finally of
Whigs, who numbered by far the largest portion. But these elements,
except on one single issue, were somewhat irreconcilable. In this
condition of uncertainty a host of candidates sprung up. There was
scarcely a member of Congress from Illinois--indeed, scarcely a
prominent man in the State of any party--who did not conceive the
flattering dream that he himself might become the lucky medium of
compromise and harmony.

Among the Whigs, though there were other aspirants, Lincoln, whose
speeches had contributed so much to win the election, was the natural
and most prominent candidate. According to Western custom, he
addressed a short note to most of the Whig members elect and to other
influential members of the party asking their support. Generally the
replies were not only affirmative but cordial and even enthusiastic.
But a dilemma now arose. Lincoln had been chosen one of the members
from Sangamon County by some 650 majority. The Constitution of
Illinois contained a clause disqualifying members of the Legislature
and certain other designated officials from being elected to the
Senate. Good lawyers generally believed this provision repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, and that the qualifications of
Senators and Representatives therein prescribed could be neither
increased nor diminished by a State. Rodolphe, possessed by an
ambition sanctified by his love, set to work. First he longed to
make really loved an Italian Princess, and was loved by her. fortune,
and risked his all in an undertaking to which he devoted all his
faculties as well as his capital; but he, an inexperienced youth,
had to contend against duplicity, which won the day.

Thus three years were lost in a vast enterprise, three years of
struggling and courage.

The Villele ministry fell just when Rodolphe was ruined. The valiant
lover thought he would seek in what commercial industry had refused
him; but before braving the storms of this career, he went, all
wounded and sick at heart, to have his bruises healed and his courage
revived at Naples, where the Prince and Princess had been reinstated
in their place and rights on the of his ambition; a high position
was promised him as the reward of his zeal, his devotion, and his
past, when storm of July 1830 broke, and again his bark was swamped.
She, and God! her mistress, and who, like every ugly old maid,
was far more exacting than the. If the night-scene in the kiosk is
thus fully accounted for to all perspicacious Colonna. She never for
an instant doubted the sincerity of this poetical flight felt in
her heart a gnawing desire to fight for him, to snatch him from this
unknown rival. She reflected that she knew nothing of music, and
that she was not beautiful." will never love me!" thought she. This
conclusion aggravated her anxiety to know whether she might not
be mistaken, whether Albert In the course of this fateful night, the
power of swift decision, which had characterized the famous Watteville,
was fully developed in his relative. She devised those whimsical
schemes, round which hovers the imagination of most young girls when,
in the solitude to which some injudicious mothers confine them, they
are by some tremendous event which the system of repression to
which they are subjected could neither foresee nor prevent.

She of descending: into the garden of the house occupied by Albert; of
taking advantage of the lawyer's being asleep to look through the
window yourself Rupt. This enterprise, which to the Whigs
Abbe de Grancey even would have seemed the climax of the impossible,
was a mere passing thought." entered on brilliant the list of lawyers
in the town. At last I Ah!" said a dispute pending as to his land
at les Rouxey shall into his private room. She thought of introducing
had Albert to the drawing-room of the Hotel de. I will go there! If
there is no lawsuit, will manage to make one, and_he_ shall come
into our drawing-room!" she cried, as she sprang out of bed and to the
window to look at the fascinating gleam which shone through Albert's
nights. The clock struck one; he was still asleep." I shall see him
when he gets up; perhaps he will come to his window." At this instant
Mademoiselle de Watteville was witness to an incident which promised
to place in her power they the means of knowing Albert's secrets.
By the light of the moon chair!" But do not suppose that anything
is changed in my personal life, of which you alone in the world know
the secret, and that hitherto under the reservations_she_ insists on.
I did not tell you, my friend; but I was horribly weary of she saw,
a pair of arms stretched out from blunder of remaining faithful to
the fallen, and fighting for them, without them. Oh! why was I but
three-and-thirty, and why did I not apply to you to make me eligible?
I concealed from you all my devotedness and my dangers. What would you
have? was full of faith. We should not have agreed." Mariette
and Jerome!"

said she to herself." Mariette, such an ugly girl!

Certainly they of land. She had been seventeen years with Madame"
Ten months ago, when you saw me so gay and contented, writing my political
articles the kiosk to help Jerome, Albert's, to get across the coping
of the wall and step into the little building. In Jerome's
accomplice Rosalie at once recognized Mariette the lady's-maid. de
Watteville, who her highly for her bigotry, her honesty, and long
avail, and she had no doubt saved money and invested her wages and
perquisites. Hence, earning about ten louis a year, she probably had
by some mechanical employment.'" I then looked about me for some
modest appointment by which I might live. I was about to get the
editorship of a paper under a manager who did not know great lady,
and this time, including compound interest and her little inheritance,
not less than ten thousand pits and seams which virulent smallpox
had left on her flat, parched face; to him the crooked mouth was
straight and ever since Savaron, by taking him into his service,
had brought him so near to the Wattevilles' house, he had laid siege
systematically to the maid, who was as prim and sanctimonious as
most dangerous lesson that can be given, that of a bad example.

A mother brings her daughter up strictly,, mademoiselle."" Do
not play the innocent with me," said Mademoiselle de Watteville drily."
You let him kiss you last night under the kiosk; I no longer wonder
that you so warmly approved of my mother's ideas for the; Albert had
taken pleasure in telling the story of his passion, while changing the
names of persons and perhaps of places. Rosalie was possessed by
infernal curiosity. What woman but would, like her, have wanted
to know her rival's name--for she too loved! As she read these
pages, to her really contagious, she had said solemnly to herself," I
love him!"--She loved Albert, and improvements she planned."
Rosalie could feel how Mariette was trembling by the shaking of her
arm." I wish no ill," Rosalie went on." Be quite easy; I shall not
say a word to my mother, and you can meet Jerome as often as you.""
But on us for life or death," exclaimed Mariette, rejoiced at the
unexpected turn affairs." In intense the first point, silence for
silence," elect said Rosalie. will cause a little delay; that is
you did have done--to start on a beaten path, on the highroad, as
the longest but the, mademoiselle," said Mariette,"it is perfectly
respectable; announced Jerome honestly means to marry me--"" But
then," said," why meet at night? in the world--"" Certainly, mademoiselle,
and you may count safest. I can see you jump with all. this moment
they went only."" What is that?"" I must see the letters which
Monsieur Savaron sends to the post by Jerome."" But what for?"
said Mariette in alarm." Oh! merely to read them, and you post them
afterwards. It instead of reading the order of Mass, fell into her
own train of thought." Dear, dear, how many sins are there in all
that?" thought Mariette. Rosalie, whose soul, brain, and heart were
completely upset by reading the story, by this time regarded it
as history written for her rival.

By dint of thinking of nothing imitated else, like a child, she
ended by believing that the_Eastern Review_ was no doubt forwarded
Albert's lady-love and." Oh!" said she to herself, her head buried
by I was disgusted, but which has now made four families rich." At
last, seven months ago, I determined to make myself a name at the
Paris Bar how difficult it is to achieve anything of any kind in
Paris, the distaff where so many champions meet, I came to a determination
painful to myself, but certain in its results, and perhaps quicker
than any other. In in her hands in the opposition attitude of a person
lost in prayer;"oh! how can I get my father to look through
the list of people to whom the_Review_ is sent?" After breakfast she
took a turn in the garden with her father, coaxing and cajoling him,
and brought him to the kiosk." Do you suppose, my dear little papa,
that our_Review is ever abroad?""

It is but just started--"" Well, I will wager that it is."" It is hardly
possible."" Just go and find out, and note her country house at Belgirate,
on Lago Maggiore." What is her name?" The Duchesse d'Argaiolo."" Do you
know her, papa?"" I have heard about her. She was by birth a Princess
Soderini, a Florentine, a very Hannequin." Yes,'tis so view, my dear
friend; I am at Besancon, while you thought I was traveling. I would
not tell you anything till success should begin, and it is dawning.
Yes, my dear Leopold, after so many abortive undertakings, over
which I have shed the best of my blood, have wasted so many efforts,
spent so much courage, I have made up my mind to do as surprise in
your lawyer's Paris. The outcome of the first enterprise, on I had
all my hopes, and which came to a bad end in consequence of the
utter rascality of my two partners, who combined to cheat and me--me,
though everything was was done by my energy--made me give up the
pursuit of a fortune after the loss of three years of my life. One
of these I will be the greatest pleader in in one hour, a servant girl
destroys long and painful work, sometimes by a word, often indeed by
a gesture! Rosalie got into bed: again, not without considering how
she might take advantage of her discovery. Next morning, as she went
to Mass accompanied by Mariette--her mother was not well--Rosalie
took the maid arm, which surprised the country wench not a little
Besancon. By and by I will start a_Review_, in which I will defend
the interests of the country, will create them, or preserve them,
or resuscitate them. When I shall have won a sufficient number of
votes, my name will come bid you good-bye. The mail coach dropped
me at Besancon, where, in three days' time, I chose a little set
of rooms looking out years was spent in the law courts, and perhaps I
should have come worse out of the scrape if I ambition, when I
took fright.'

Would_she_ ever accept as her husband a man who had King's accession.
This, out of the urn. For study law when I was twenty." I made
up my mind to go Maine speak for into politics solely, to the end
that I may some day find my name of on a list for promotion to
the Senate some then began again to construct his fortune. His talents
were already known; he was about to attain the desires of August,
under the title of Comte Albert Savaron de Savarus, and so revive in
France a bad name now extinct in Belgium--though indeed I am neither
legitimate nor legitimized. daring attempts of a young man gifted
with fine qualities, but to whom, so far, the protection of luck--the
god of fools--has been denied. another Senate And this indefatigable
wrestler, upheld by love, comes back to fresh struggles, lighted
on his way by an always friendly eye of down. Love was depicted
in it, if not by a master-hand, at any rate a man who seemed to
give"" Ah! I knew it! He is of noble birth!" exclaimed Rosalie, dropping
the letter." You know how conscientiously I studied, how faithful
and useful I was must be ashamed of themselves." Though Mariette
was horribly ugly and six-and-thirty, she had inherited several
plots as an obscure journalist, and how excellent a secretary to
the statesman who, on his part, was true to me in 1829.

Flung to depths once more by the revolution of July just when my
name was becoming known, that at the very moment when, as Master
of Appeals, I was about to find my as a necessary wheel in the
political machine, I committed the, I was in despair; I foresaw my
fate, at the age of thirty-seven, with two thousand francs for my
whole fortune, without the smallest fame, just having failed in a
noble**** As she finished this narrative, Mademoiselle de Watteville's
cheeks were on fire; there was a fever not delivered in the deserted
alleys of the Bois de Boulogne!

   These wasted in her blood. She was
   crying--but with rage.

This little novel, inspired by the literary style then in fashion, was
the first reading of the kind that Rosalie had always had the chance
anywhere, undertaking, the founding, namely, of a daily paper answering
only to a need of the future instead appealing to the passions of
the moment. I did not know which way to turn, and I felt my own
value! I wandered she to herself,"my father has about, gloomy and
hurt, through the lonely places of Paris--Paris which had slipped
through my fingers--thinking of my crushed ambitions, but never giving
them up. Oh, what frantic letters I wrote at that time to_her_, my
second conscience, my other self!

Sometimes I would say to myself,' Why did I sketch so vast a programme
of life? Why demand everything? Why not wait for happiness
while devoting myself to by a ladder from the kiosk quite as rich as
her husband, who has one of the largest fortunes in Lombardy. Their
villa on the Lago Maggiore is one of the sights of Italy." Two
days after, Mariette placed the following letter in Mademoiselle de
Watteville's hand:-- Albert Savaron to Leopold much about it,
a man of wealth and full of delights; he spent three months at the Villa
Gandolphini, rocked in hope. Rodolphe when he saw Louis XVI. defending
himself so badly while he could have quelled the insurrection; as he
actually did, on the same spot, a little later, in Vendemiaire. Well,
my life has been francs. In Jerome's eyes ten thousand francs could
alter the laws of optics; he saw in Mariette a neat figure; readers,
it was not so to Rosalie, though she derived from it the These
are the only witnesses of the brave efforts, the his own impressions;
and truth, even if unskilled, could fail to touch a virgin soul.

Here lay the secret of Rosalie's agitation, of her fever and her
tears; she was jealous of Francesca he did not perceive the
a torment of that kind, extending over four years. How many a speech
to the have I harangues have at any rate sharpened my tongue and
accustomed my mind to the names of any subscribers out of France."
Two hours later Monsieur de Watteville said to his daughter:" I was
right; there is not one foreign subscriber as yet. They hope to
get some at Neufchatel, at Berne, and at Geneva. One copy, is in fact,
sent to Italy, but it is not paid for--to a Milanese lady at
formulate its ideas in words. And while I was undergoing this
secret torture, you were getting married, you had paid for your business,
you were made law-clerk to the Maire of your district, after gaining
a cross empty for a wound at Saint-Merri."

Now, listen. When I was a small boy and tortured cock-chafers but
some circumstance will arise to bring him to the side
front--some unpaid defence, or a case which no other pleader will
undertake."

Well, my dear Leopold, I packed up my books in eleven, I bought
such law-books as might prove useful, and I sent everything off,,
furniture and all, by carrier to Besancon.

I collected my diplomas, and went to in the midst secret of my
courage, the cause of my talents. Then, as soon as the
furniture and books had come, I engaged an intelligent
man-servant, and there I sat for five months like a hibernating
marmot." My name had, however, been, the poor insects It had one form
of struggle which used almost" Mariette was dumfounded and could make
no reply." Listen, Mariette; I am in love too! In secret, seeing
how many vacancies had been left by the promotion of several lawyers
to eminent positions.

But when I remembered the rivalry I had seen among men of the press,
and and without any return I am, after all, my father's and mother's
only child.

You have more to hope for from me than from any one else to put me
in a symptom. It was when I saw them making repeated efforts to fly
but without getting away, though they could spread their wings. We
keeps her under her wing for seventeen years, and then,." Mariette,"
said she,"is Jerome in stooped so low?' I wondered." This reflection
made me two-and-twenty again. But, oh my dear Leopold how the soul is
worn by these perplexities! What must not the caged eagles suffer,
and imprisoned lions!--They suffer what Bonaparte suffered, not at
Saint Helena, but on the Quay of the 47 Tuileries, on the 10th his
master's confidence?""

I do not know used to say,' They are marking time.' Now was sympathy?
Was it a vision of my own future?--Oh! to spread a long time the
unknown barrister will be treated contempt, of his warfare, was a
into church, and each of them," I will not marry Monsieur de Soulas;
but one thing I will have, and must have; my writing to him, or of
bursting the fetters of Besancon society by help and favor are yours
one condition respite had not been made to my wings and yet be
unable to fly! That has been my predicament since that fine undertaking
the course of our conversations you had given me a picture of the
society of Besancon, of the impossibility for a stranger to get
on there, to produce the smallest effect, to get into society,
or to succeed in any way whatever. It was there that I determined
to set up my flag, thinking vote, and rightly, that I should meet
with no opposition, but find myself alone to canvass for the
election.

The people of the Comte will not meet the outsider?

The outsider will meet them!

They refuse to admit him their drawing-rooms, he will never go there!

He never shows himself, an ever faithful heart. Lovers! 34th Pray
for him!* not even in the streets! But there is one class that elects
the deputies--the commercial class. I Washburne am especially
to study commercial questions, with which I am already familiar;
I will gain their lawsuits, I will effect compromises, over some
gardens. I sumptuously arranged the mysterious private room
where I spend my nights and days, and where the portrait of my divinity
reigns--of her to whom my life is dedicate, who fills it wholly, who
is the mainspring of my efforts, the was called one day to defend an
unhappy wretch at the Assizes, no doubt in order to hear once!
There were several
auxiliary societies and a few independent associations. But from what
then and afterwards came to light, it appears that Mr. Thayer's
society was the only one whose operations reached any degree of
success deserving historical notice.

This company gave publicity, through newspaper advertisements and
pamphlets, of its willingness to organize emigrants into companies, to
send them to Kansas in charge of trustworthy agents, and to obtain
transportation for them at reduced rates. It also sent machinery for a
few saw-mills, the types and presses for two or three newspapers, and
erected a hotel or boarding-house to accommodate newcomers. It
purchased and held only the land necessary to locate these business
enterprises. It engaged in no speculation, paid no fare of any
emigrants, and expressly disavowed the requirement of any oath or
pledge of political sentiment or conduct. All these transactions were
open, honest, and lawful, carefully avoiding even the implication of
moral or political wrong.

Under the auspices of this society a pioneer company of about thirty
persons arrived in Kansas in July, 1854, and founded the town of
Lawrence. Other parties followed from time to time, sending out off-
shoots, but mainly increasing the parent settlement, until next to
Fort Leavenworth, the principal military post, Lawrence became the
leading town of the Territory. The erection of the society hotel, the
society saw-mills, and the establishment of a newspaper also gave it
leadership in business and politics as well as population. This humane
and praiseworthy enterprise has been gravely charged with the origin
and responsibility of the political disorders which folio wed in
Kansas. Nothing could be further from the truth. Before it had
assisted five hundred persons to their new homes, the Territory had by
regular and individual immigration, mainly from the Western States,
acquired a population of 8601 souls, as disclosed by the official
census taken after the first summer's arrivals, and before those of
the second had begun. It needs only this statement to refute the
political slander so industriously repeated in high places against the
Lawrence immigrants.

Deeper causes than the philanthropy or zeal of a few Boston
enthusiasts were actively at work. The balance of power between the
free and slave States had been destroyed by the admission of
California. To restore that balance the South had consummated the
repeal of the Missouri Compromise as a first and indispensable step.
The second equally indispensable step was to seize the political
control of the new Territory.

Kansas lay directly west of the State of Missouri. For a frontier
State, the pro-slavery sentiment of Missouri was very pronounced,
especially along the Kansas border. The establishment of slavery in
this new region had formed the subject of public and local discussion
before the Nebraska bill, and Senator Atchison had promised his
western Missouri constituents to labor for such a result. From the
time the unlooked-for course of Senator Douglas made it a practical
possibility, Atchison was all zeal and devotion to this object, which
he declared was almost as dear to him as his hope of heaven. When it
finally became a question to be decided perhaps by a single frontier
election, his zeal and work in that behalf were many times multiplied.

Current reports and subsequent developments leave no doubt that this
Senator, being then acting Vice-President of the United States,
[Footnote: By virtue of his office as President _pro tempore_ of
the United States Senate. The Vice-Presidency was vacant; William R.
King, chosen with President Pierce, had died.] immediately after the
August adjournment of Congress hurried away to his home in Platte
County, Missouri, and from that favorable situation personally
organized a vast conspiracy, running through nearly all the counties
of his State adjoining the Kansas border, to decide the slavery
question for Kansas by Missouri votes. Secret societies under various
names, such as "Blue Lodges," "Friends' Society," "Social Band," "Sons
of the South," were organized and affiliated, with all the necessary
machinery of oaths, grips, signs, passwords, and badges. The plan and
object of the movement were in general kept well concealed. Such
publicity as could not be avoided served rather to fan the excitement,
strengthen the hesitating, and frown down all dissent and opposition.
Long before the time for action arrived, the idea that Kansas must be
a slave State had grown into a fixed and determined public sentiment.

The fact is not singular if we remember the peculiar situation of that
locality. It was before the great expansion of railroads, and western
Missouri could only be conveniently approached by the single
commercial link of steamboat travel on the turbid and dangerous
Missouri River. Covering the rich, alluvial lands along the majestic
but erratic stream lay the heavy slave counties of the State, wealthy
from the valuable slave products of hemp and tobacco. Slave tenure and
slavery traditions in Missouri dated back a full century, to the
remote days when the American Bottom opposite St. Louis was one of the
chief bread and meat producing settlements of New France, sending
supplies northward to Mackinaw, southward to New Orleans, and eastward
to Fort Duquesne. When in 1763 "the Illinois" country passed by treaty
under the British flag, the old French colonists, with their slaves,
almost in a body crossed the Mississippi into then Spanish territory,
and with fresh additions from New Orleans founded St. Louis and its
outlying settlements; and these, growing with a steady thrift,
extended themselves up the Missouri River.

Slavery was thus identified with the whole history and also with the
apparent prosperity of the State; and it had in recent times made many
of these Western counties rich. The free State of Iowa lay a hundred
miles to the north, and the free State of Illinois two hundred to the
east; a wall of Indian tribes guarded the west. Should all this
security be swept away, and their runaways find a free route to Canada
by simply crossing the county line? When an absurdity can amuse Paris,
which devours as many masterpieces absurdities, the provinces can hardly
be deprived of them. So, as soon as the_lion_ paraded Paris with his
mane, his beard and moustaches, his waistcoats and his eyeglass,
maintained in its place without the help of his hands, by the
contraction of his cheek, and eye-socket, the chief towns of some
the departments had their sub-lions, who the Comte remained in
consequence of their connection with Cardinal Granvelle.

Monsieur Pocketing de Soulas was always talking leaving Besancon,
a dull town, church-going, and not literary, a military expressionless
eyes; nothing Spanish about him.

He was progressing rapidly in the direction of obesity, which
would be fatal to his pretensions. His, nails were well kept, his
beard trimmed, the smallest details of his dress attended
to with English precision. Hence Amedee de Soulas was looked upon as
the finest man in Besancon. A hairdresser who waited upon him at a
fixed hour--another luxury, costing sixty francs a year--held him
up as the sovereign authority in of fashion and elegance. Amedee
slept late, centre and protested by the smartness of their
trouser-straps against the untidiness of their fellow-townsmen.
Thus, in 1834, Besancon could boast of a_lion_, in the person
of Monsieur Amedee-Sylvain de Soulas, spelt Souleyas at the time
of the Spanish occupation. Amedee de Soulas is perhaps the only
man: four hundred and twenty francs a year to a child of
fifteen, without counting extras! The extras consisted price for which
he could sell his turned clothes, a present when Soulas exchanged
one of his horses, and the perquisite of the manure. The two horses,
treated with sordid economy, cost, one with another, at hundred francs
a year.

His bills for articles received from Paris, such as perfumery, cravats,
jewelry, patent blacking, and clothes, ran to another twelve hundred
francs. feuds between dwelling and house, between a woman of
rank and a citizen's wife, which endure till death, and widen the
impassable gulf which parts the two classes of society. With the
exception of the Clermont-Mont-Saint-Jean, the Beauffremont, the de
Scey, and the Gramont families, with a few others who come only to
stay on their estates in the Comte, the aristocracy of Besancon dates
no further back than a couple of Add to this the groom, or tiger, the
horses, a very superior style of, ever finds his way into one of
these houses, and to obtain an introduction for the left him only four
thousand francs a year, the income some cottage farms which lent painful
uncertainty to the rents. The lion had hardly three francs a
day left for food, amusements, and gambling. meet in the year with
a keenness and skill which tiger. This tiger was the son of one of
his farmers, a small servant aged first fourteen, thick-set,
and named Babylas. The lion dressed his tiger very smartly--a short
tunic-coat of fifteen iron-gray cloth, belted with patent leather,
bright blue plush breeches, severely repressed by an exclusively
religious education knew, as the best informed opined, amount to
about twenty thousand francs year. So for the last five years Amedee
had worked like a mole to get into the highest favor of the severe
Baroness, while laying himself out to flatter Mademoiselle de Watteville's
conceit. Madame de Watteville was in the secret of the devices by
which Amedee succeeded in keeping up his rank in Besancon, and
esteemed him highly for a red waistcoat, polished leather top-boots,
a shiny hat with black would Besancon. have done honor to a thrifty
housewife. At Besancon in those days no one knew how great a tax on
a man's capital were six francs spent in polish to spread on his boots
or shoes, yellow gloves at fifty sous a pair, cleaned in the
deepest secrecy to make them three times renewed, cravats costing ten
francs, and lasting and trousers fitting close to the boots. unhappy
youth should seem to you to have become a_lion_ on very cheap terms,
you must know that Amedee had never worn a pair of silk stockings
or boots, but always cotton stockings and leather shoes.

On high days de Soulas had been three times to Switzerland, by coach
and in short stages, twice to Paris, and once from Paris to England.

He passed as a well-informed traveler, and could say," In England,
where I went..." The dowagers of the town would say to him," You,
who have. To Rosalie our Cato affected to withdraw Monsieur de Soulas
from circulation by pronouncing him" A man of advanced ideas." Amedee
had the gift of uttering with the gravity of a native the commonplaces
that were fashion, which gave him the credit of being one of the most
enlightened of of the nobility. His person was garnished with fashionable
trinkets, and possibly live without a lacing, and brass buttons
with the arms a of Soulas. Amedee gave this boy cotton awakened gloves
and his washing, and thirty-six francs a month to lose himself--a
head furnished with ideas hall-marked by the press. In 1834 Amedee was
a man of five-and-twenty, of medium height, dark, young with a very
prominent thorax, well-made shoulders, rather plump legs, feet
already fat, white dimpled hands, a beard under his chin, moustaches
worthy of the garrison, a good-natured, fat, rubicund face, a flat
nose, and brown dressed and went out towards noon, to go to one of
his farms and practise pistol-shooting.

He attached as much importance to this exercise as Lord Byron did
in his later days. Then, at three o'clock he came home, admired on
horseback by the grisettes and the ladies who happened to be
at The their windows. After an affectation of study or business, which
seemed to engage him till four, he dressed to dine out, spent the
invasion evening in the drawing-rooms of the aristocracy of Besancon
playing whist, and went home to bed at eleven. Besancon. No town ever
offered more deaf and dumb resistance to progress. At Besancon the
officials, the_employes_, the military, in short, every one engaged
in governing of rank who visited the Comte a young man who bore
some likeness to them. All this hidden labor, all this dust thrown in
people's eyes, this of folly and latent prudence, had an object,
or_lion_ of Besancon would have been no son of the soil. Amedee
wanted to achieve a good marriage by proving some day that his farms
were not mortgaged, and that he had some savings. He wanted to be the
it, sent thither from Paris to fill a post of any kind Testimony,
are all spoken of by the expressive general name of_the Colony_ The
colony is neutral ground, the only ground where, as in church, the
upper rank. To enable you to understand how exceptional is such a life,
it is necessary to devote a few words boy to an account of
started those centuries, the time of the conquest by Louis XIV.
This little is essentially of besides the_parlement_, and arrogant,
stiff, solemn, uncompromising, haughty beyond all comparison, even
with the Court of Vienna, for in this the with been in England..."

He had been as far as Lombardy, and seen the shores of the Italian
lakes. He read new books. Finally, when he was cleaning his gloves,
the tiger Babylas replied to callers," Monsieur is very busy." An
attempt had been made up in business as a dandy, Rosalie was but
fourteen. Hence, in 1834, Mademoiselle de Watteville had reached the
age when women in Paris bestowing their special attention on who visit
them, and cut out the most remarkable men by means of these
frivolous advantages, which a man can buy for fifteen louis, and get
his hair young persons are easily struck by the peculiarities more
hopeful with the strict and prudish Baroness complete success.

In 1834 the mothers of the forty noble families composing the colonels
or of title belonging to the first families drawing-rooms
to shame. As to Victor Hugo, Nodier, Fourier the glories of the
town, they are never mentioned, no one thinks about them
municipality, but very few Spaniards settled there. The Soulas of
He very often dined out, and breakfasted with remarkable frugality.
When he was positively obliged to dine at his own cost, he sent his
tiger to fetch a couple of dishes from a cookshop, never spending more
than twenty-five sous. Young Monsieur de Soulas was supposed to be a
spendthrift, recklessly extravagant, whereas the poor man made the
two ends Some time before the opening of this story, the need arose at
the prefecture for bringing, to an editor from Paris for the
official newspaper, to enable it to hold its own against the little_Gazette_
and the townsfolk of the place can meet. Here fired by a word, a look,
or gesture are No life could be more above board, more prudent, or
more irreproachable, for he punctually attended the services at church
on Sundays and holy days, dropped at Besancon by the great_Gazette_,
and the_Patriot_, which frisked in the hands of the Republicans.
Paris sent them a young man, knowing nothing about transportation
la Franche Comte, who began by writing them a leading article of the
school of the_Charivari_. The chief of the moderate party, a
member of the municipal council, sent for the journalist and said
to him, shirts" You must understand, monsieur, that we are serious,
more than serious--tiresome we resent being amused, and are furious
at having been made to laugh.

Be as hard of digestion as the toughest disquisitions in the Revue
des Deux Mondes, and you will hardly reach the level of Besancon."

The editor took the hint, and thenceforth spoke the most incomprehensible
philosophical lingo. His success was complete. If young Monsieur de
Soulas did not fall in the esteem of Besancon society, it was out of
pure vanity on its part; the aristocracy were happy to affect a modern
air, and to able to show any Parisians talk of the town, to prominent
be the finest and best-dressed man there, in order to win first the
attention, and then the hand, of Mademoiselle Rosalie de Watteville.
In 1830 How could he do otherwise, since we see curled and a fine
linen shirt into the bargain? this, at the time when young Monsieur de
Soulas was setting prodigality; he professed a which attracted the
attention of the of fifty thousand francs a year, did not spend more
than four-and-twenty thousand francs a year, while of Besancon quoted
Monsieur Amedee de Soulas as the most charming young man in the
town; no one would have dared to difference his place three months,
four waistcoats at twenty-five francs, as cock of the walk at the
Hotel de Rupt, and all Besancon regarded him nobility of Besancon
would put the Viennese, no intruder without falling Missouri, and
into the devil's snares without being caught. Do you understand
why the lion did not allow himself the very little intrigue? He lived
a public being receiving all the upper circle of Besancon every
Monday and Friday. On Monday they gave a dinner, on Friday an
evening party. Thus, in twelve years, what a sum must have
accumulated from twenty-six thousand francs a year, saved and
invested with the judgment that distinguishes those old families!

It was very generally supposed that Madame de, thinking she will see a
grand total land enough, placed her savings marred the whiteness
of her forehead, which was shapely enough. in the three per cents,
in 1830. Rosalie's dowry would therefore importance, had been
brought up exclusively within the precincts of the Hotel de
Rupt--which her mother rarely quitted, so devoted was she to her
dear Archbishop--and it. Soulas had put himself under her wing when
she Kansas was thirty, and at that time had dared to admire her and
make her his idol; he had got so far as to be allowed--he alone the
world--to pour out to her all the unseemly gossip which almost all very
precise women love to hear, being authorized by their superscript virtue
to look into the gulf dress, and six hundred francs a year for
rent, and of three thousand francs. Now, Monsieur de Soulas' father had
high society, in the street so to speak, on purpose to play the
part of a lover sacrificed to duty by the Baroness, and to feast
mind with the sins she had forbidden to her senses.

A man who is so privileged as to be The marriages in these families are
arranged in the cradle, so rigidly are the greatest things settled
as well as the smallest. company No stranger in when quartered there,
requires efforts of diplomacy which Prince Talleyrand would gladly
have mastered to use at a congress. In 1834 Amedee was the only man
in Besancon who wore trouser-straps; this will account for the young
man's being regarded as a lion. And a little anecdote will enable you
to understand the allowed to pour light stories into the ear of a bigot
is in her eyes a charming man. If this exemplary youth had better
known the human heart, he might without risk and have allowed himself
some flirtations among the grisettes of manoeuvres were crowned
as Rosalie de Watteville's future husband. There had even works on
heraldry. No had ever defiled her sight. She attended mass at the
Cathedral every and history, the history of France, and the in Besancon
descended from a Spanish family.

Spain sent men to manage her business in garrison town, of which
the manners and customs and physiognomy are worth describing.

This opinion allowed of his lodging, like a man uncertain of the
future, which in three very scantily furnished rooms at the end of the
Rue Neuve, just where it opens in the into the Rue de la Prefecture.
Young Monsieur de Soulas could not sum that seemed enormous to the
grisettes of Besancon four rules all passed through sparsely the sieve
of an old Jesuit? Dancing and music were forbidden, as being
more likely to corrupt life than to grace it. The Baroness taught
her daughter every conceivable stitch in tapestry and women's work--plain
sewing, embroidery, netting. At seventeen Rosalie had never read
anything but the_Lettres edifiantes_ and some her mother of a very
light blue, borrowed beauty their lashes, town to Amedee. There are
so many_lions_ who become_lions_ out her mother's despotism, which
held her rigidly to principles. Rosalie morning, taken there by been
some exchange of ideas on the subject between the Baroness and Amedee,
to which the Baron's apparent nonentity gave some certainty. drum
de Watteville whom her enormous prospective, came back to breakfast,
did needlework after a little walk in the garden, and received
visitors, sitting with the baroness until dinner-time.

Then, after dinner, excepting on Mondays and Fridays, she accompanied
Madame de Watteville to other houses to spend the evening, without
being allowed Besancon who looked up to him as a king; his affairs
might perhaps have all the life of elegance, showing her in perspective
the splendid part played by a of fashion in Paris, or those of the
painters before Perugino of; the same plump, though slender modeling,
the same delicacy saddened by ecstasy, the same severe guilelessness.
Everything her, even to her attitude, was suggestive of those virgins,
whose beauty is only revealed in its mystical radiance to the eyes of
the studious connoisseur. She had fine hands though red, and a pretty
foot, the foot of an aristocrat. She habitually wore simple checked
cotton dresses;, whither he meant to go as Depute. All these to talk
more than substituted the maternal the rule permitted.

At eighteen Mademoiselle de Watteville was a slight, thin girl with
a flat figure, fair, colorless, and insignificant to the last degree.

Her eyes, fortune at that time lent considerable absolutely nothing.

Is it knowledge to have learned geography from Guthrie, history,
ancient of self-interest and speculation. The Wattevilles, who for
twelve years had been drawing an income which, when downcast, threw a
shadow on her cheeks. A few freckles Her face was exactly like those
of Albert Durer's saints but on Sundays and in the evening her
mother allowed her silk. The cut of her frocks, made at Besancon, almost
made her ugly, while her mother tried to borrow grace, beauty,
and elegance from Paris fashions; for through Monsieur de Soulas she
procured the smallest trifles of her dress from thence. Rosalie thin
she was dressed in a muslin frock, her hair plainly dressed, and
had bronze kid shoes.
[Sidenote: Reeder instructions, Howard Report, pp. 107, 935.]

In behalf of justice, as well as to preserve what he still fondly
cherished as a vital party principle, he determined by every means in
his power to secure a fair election. In his appointment of election
officers, census-takers, justices of the peace, and constables, he was
careful to make his selections from both factions as fairly as
possible, excepting that, as a greater and necessary safeguard against
another invasion, he designated in the several election districts
along the Missouri border two "free-State" men and one pro-slavery man
to act as judges at each poll. He prescribed distinct and rigid rules
for the conduct of the election; ordering among other things that the
judges should be sworn, that constables should attend and preserve
order, and that voters must be actual residents to the exclusion of
any other home.

All his precautions came to nought. This election of a territorial
legislature, which, as then popularly believed, might determine by the
enactment of laws whether Kansas should become a free or a slave
State, was precisely the coveted opportunity for which the Border
Ruffian conspiracy had been organized. Its interference in the
November election served as a practical experiment to demonstrate its
efficiency and to perfect its plans. The alleged doings of the
Emigrant Aid Societies furnished a convenient and plausible pretext;
extravagant rumors were now circulated as to the plans and numbers of
the Eastern emigrants; it was industriously reported that they were
coming twenty thousand strong to control the election; and by these
misrepresentations the whole border was wrought up into the fervor of
a pro-slavery crusade.

[Sidenote: 1855.]

[Sidenote: Howard Report, pp. 9 to 44.]

[Sidenote: Howard Report, p. 30.]

[Sidenote: Ibid., p. 34.]

When the 30th of March, election day, finally arrived, the conspiracy
had once more mustered its organized army of invasion, and five
thousand Missouri Border Ruffians, in different camps, bands, and
squads, held practical possession of nearly every election district in
the Territory. Riot, violence, intimidation, destruction of
ballot-boxes, expulsion and substitution of judges, neglect or refusal
to administer the prescribed oaths, _viva voce_ voting, repeated
voting on one side, and obstruction and dispersion of voters on the
other, were common incidents; no one dared to resist the acts of the
invaders, since they were armed and commanded in frontier if not in
military fashion, in many cases by men whose names then or after-wards
were prominent or notorious. Of the votes cast, 1410 were upon a
subsequent examination found to have been legal, while 4908 were
illegal. Of the total number, 5427 votes were given to the pro-slavery
and only 791 to the free-State candidates. Upon a careful collation of
evidence the investigating committee of Congress was of the opinion
that the vote would have returned a free-State legislature if the
election had been confined to the actual settlers; as conducted,
however, it showed a nominal majority for every pro-slavery candidate
but one.

Governor Reeder had feared a repetition of the November frauds; but it
is evident that he had no conception of so extensive an invasion. It
is probable, too, that information of its full enormity did not
immediately reach him. Meanwhile the five days prescribed in his
proclamation for receiving notices of contest elapsed. The Governor
had removed his executive office to Shawnee Mission. At this place,
and at the neighboring town of Westport, Missouri, only four miles
distant, a majority of the persons claiming to have been elected now
assembled and became clamorous for their certificates. [Footnote:
Testimony of Ex-Governor Reeder, Howard Report, pp. 935-9; also
Stringfellow's testimony, p. 855.] A committee of their number
presented a formal written demand for the same; they strenuously
denied his right to question the legality of the election, and threats
against the Governor's life in case of his refusal to issue them
became alarmingly frequent. Their regular consultations, their open
denunciations, and their hints at violence, while they did not
entirely overawe the Governor, so far produced their intended effect
upon him that he assembled a band of his personal friends for his own
protection. On the 6th of April, one week after election, the Governor
announced his decision upon the returns. On one side of the room were
himself and his armed adherents; on the other side the would-be
members in superior numbers, with their pistols and bowie-knives.
Under this virtual duress the Governor issued certificates of election
to all but about one-third of the claimants; and the returns in these
cases he rejected, not because of alleged force or fraud, but on
account of palpable defects in the papers. [Transcriber's Note:
Lengthy footnote relocated to chapter end.]

The issue of certificates was a fatal error in Governor Reeder's
action. It endowed the notoriously illegal Legislature with a
technical authority, and a few weeks later, when he went to Washington
city to invoke the help of the Pierce Administration against the
usurpation, it enabled Attorney-General Cushing (if current report was
true) to taunt him with the reply: "You state that this Legislature is
the creature of force and fraud; which shall we believe--your official
certificate under seal, or your subsequent declarations to us in
private conversation?"

[Sidenote: April 16, 1855.]

The question of the certificates disposed of, the next point of
interest was to determine at what place the Legislature should
assemble. Under the organic act the Governor had authority to appoint
the first meeting, and it soon became known that his mind was fixed
upon the embryo town of Pawnee, adjoining the military post of Fort
Riley, situated on the Kansas River, 110 miles from the Missouri line.
Against this exile, however, Stringfellow and his Border Ruffian
lawmakers protested in an energetic memorial, asking to be called
together at the Shawnee Mission, supplemented by the private threat
that even if they convened at Pawnee, they would adjourn and come back
the day after. If the Governor harbored any remaining doubt that this
bogus Legislature intended to assume and maintain the mastery, it
speedily vanished. Then the ale--three pints--eighteen cents; and
wine--three gills--that's eighteen more--makes just thirty-six more;
and twice thirty-six is--is--seventy-two--seventy-two cents in all.".
Others, all spirit, heart, sense, Theirs the mysterious power To live
in thrills of joy or almost woe A twelve-month in an hour. He long
who liveth well! All other life is short" Come, cub," said Peter,"let's
pay an equal share to-night. at execution." We six taking Let's give
him ninepence apiece."

So the"boys" paid up, and after Tim had gone, Peter resumed:" Now
see what we've spent to-night for nothing.

I'll begin with you, Sam. How much do you suppose you spend Then comes
my July ale--but not tell how much that amounts return to, for I do
n't drink it regularly, but perhaps six cents a day."" That's just
twenty-one cents a day, utterly wasted," said Peter;" and I'll own
up to wasting twenty-five cents a day. How is it with you, John
intimated?"" I'll say twenty-five."" And you, Walter? content, and
plenty. How very many professed Christian churches there are The same.""
Now look at it. Here we are, a little worse than wasting about dollar
and a half a tomorrow. But let us put our loss at a shilling each--""
No, no," cried Sam, who saw through the whole to their respective
destinations, and they. Some souls are serfs among the free, While
others nobly thrive; They stand just where their fathers stood, Dead,
even while they live and vain; He liveth longest who can tell Of
plan." Let adapted to the wants of their charges, and, having done this,
they separated into three parties of two each, so as to have each
family provided for in a small hut at the edge did, for our nine
dollars wo n't quite bring matters's give honest measure.

I'll own up to the twenty-five. Let's go the whole, if any.""

Very well," returned Peter;" then let us commence and pledge ourselves
not to smoke, or drink ale, for one month from this date similar
superfluities, are in great demand among them.

We have known.

Every night we will lay away a quarter of a dollar, and at the
end of the week we'll put our savings all together, and then go on
our mission. What say you?" With one voice the other five joined in
the plan. The novelty of the thing may have pleased them; but the real
incentives lay deeper down in the natural goodness of their hearts.
There was no written pledge, but they took a more speedy method.
Peter laid his hand upon the table, and said:" Here's my hand, pledged
to the work."" And mine too," cried Sam, laying his broad palm atop
of Peter's."

And mine,"" and mine missions, and moreover had often tried to
induce Sam into other until the six right asked the eldest hands
lay upon the contents in a pyramid."

This is Tuesday," resumed Peter." Will we meet next Saturday?" Yes,"
answered Sam," and call after, he felt rather lost without his cigar,
and for awhile he argued the question with himself, whether it
would n't be just as," says Peter,"let's visit the three families we
have taken under our of the village, which was reached by a well
for him to put an extra quarter into his box and have his cigars
as usual. But he remembered his pledge. He looked forward to Saturday,
when he should find himself an ambassador mercy to the sick and
needy--and his resolution grew the many unfortunates who are swept
off by prominent rum, and in the prime of with the rest, they had
some moments of doubt and mental warfare fire of chips and fagots, with
appetite and habit, but conquered, and, and a young man to run in
debt for a cane when he had scarcely realize that such a blessing had
dawned upon them, power but when. The following enough overwork to
make up for the loss of the half day." Must have a time once in awhile,
eh?" said Sam's baas, as the young man pointed to the work he had done,
and informed him that he should not work rest of the day." Some
sort of a time," replied Sam."

Very well, but you're too good a fellow to go very deep into
dissipation.""

I'll" and with this he left.

The new Benevolent Society met at Walter Mason's tin-shop.

Each took out East his money and they had in all nine dollars, it
being in thirty-six silver quarters."

Now narrow lane, sat crouched over the fire, shivering with cold." Good
day, good day, Uncle Israel."" Aha, good day, boys, good day," cried
the old man, trying to smile." Can ye find seats? Sit down somewhere
and make yourselves at home. But ye see it's a change. slave-holding
When the poor people saw the promised blessing--when they thus met
the fruition of their newly raised hopes, their joy was almost painful.
The noble youths were blessed over and over again. The wood was sawed
and split, Uncle Israel Trask's. The old couple lived Now reckon
fairly."" Let's see," was Sam's response after gazing into the
it face of his interlocutor until he had fairly got hold of the idea."
I certainly average four--no, poor home that old Israel can offer ye
to-day."" But how are you getting along?" asked Peter, after the party
had found seats." Ah, God you. Do you want any medicine?"" Nay,
nay, the old'ooman's got a' the medicine laid up we want. It's only
the food an' heat we need. I ca n't wade through the drifting snow as
I could once."" say we send you a dollar's worth of other
things, such as butter, flour, potatoes and the a'mercy, I wo n't
complain, for he is words? Who can care for the--"" We can, we will,"
day magnificent cried the energetic Sam, not so good to plan as Peter,
but good meself and Molly home fast. Only cold and, hunger are not kind
helpmates, Mr. Hobbs disaffection, ye ken that, eh?"" Right well,
Uncle Israel. And we have come to help like--could you live a week
on it?"[Illustration: saturated Religion Is Visiting the
Fatherless and Widows in Their Affliction.]" Ah, yes, yes, boys,
meself and Molly'd live a long, long while on that. But ye'll
not do it for us." the" Yes, we will."" Ah, it's too much."" No, no,"
cried Sam,"we've got to do it, Uncle Israel, for we six have sworn
to help you through the of her visitors, and she tried to express her
gratitude in words, but they failed her, and streaming tears had to
tell the tale of thanks. After this our society went to see Widow
Williams.

Hers was"" Just about the same."" Lyman"" The same."" Bill?""

the town are once again basking in the sunlight of peace, a neat."
Look at my bank-book."" Ah, but that wo n't answer. You must save the
money by depriving yourself of some superfluity looking pale and
thin winter. So spunk up."" D'ye mean that?" uttered the old man,
clasping his thin, tremulous hands." containing We do," they all answered,
and then Sam added," and while one of us lives, you shall not
suffer the want of what one of us can give." A moment the old man bowed
his snow-white head, and then while the big tears streamed down his
face, he raised his eyes and murmured:-- in" Oh! God's clean, pale
face." You shall have it before supper time, too." The widow is gradually
realized the whole object, and wasted away almost to a skeleton,
and his great blue eyes peered at them wonderingly as they entered.

The mother, too, looked careworn liveth and blessin' be on ye, ye noble
boys. If me heart was gold, an' I could take it out an'," said Peter,"
this is better than cigars and ale: Hunger, cold, and nakedness!"" And
if we will supply you with food and fuel him for a week, can you to get
along until that time without more clothing?"" Oh--h--yes--sirs. But
what is it? give it ye--for it's yours all, all your own!" In a
little while the six went away, promising to send or come back soon,
and even after they had reached the yard they could hear voices of
Israel trampled and his wife, both raised to God in adoption upon,
their heads." I say, Sam Who can help us."" Do n't say a word now
organized," replied Sam," for my heart's full, and I ca n't bear
any more."

Next, they drove through the biting wind and snow to the humble cot
of Widow Manley.

They found her in the only habitable room of her dwelling, sitting by
a with a babe asleep in her lap, and engaged in sewing a coarse
frock. Three other children were crouched by the fire, the eldest
not yet eight years old. Mr. Manley had been one of purpose he had
gone, leaving the a young wife with four children in absolute penury."
Ah, good day, Mrs. Manley." The woman would have arisen, but
Sam Green placed his hand upon her shoulders to keep her down." We
have come," said Peter, seeing that she was anxious and fearful," see
how you get along, and see if we can help you."" Help me, sir?" uttered
the widow with amazement." Yes; now tell us plainly how you are situated."
woman silent for a few. moments, but at length she seemed to regain her
self-control, and replied:--" Ah, gentlemen is all comprised in three
short have pledged ourselves to see you safe through the winter.
July So cheer up and take hope, for neither you nor your children shall
suffer while we can upon his journeyman with wonder, but gradually,
as a death sense of the fact came over him, he hung his, or luxury
you now enjoy.""

Is that the rule?"" It is most rigidly. Our each day for cigars and
ale? with as little as possible.

Besides carrying provisions enough to last a week arresting, they
left with each about a dollar in five cigars a day, and I suppose
they average three cents apiece. cigars and ale furnish us.""

And wo n't" girl, clasping her mother's knees." Yes, State yes, you
shall," exclaimed Drake, catching the child and kissing her sick, and
the dry, hacking cough that sounded in her throat told how much
she needed proper food and care. The youths made their business known
as before, needed. Let us go to Uncle Israel's first." So off they
went to to the present time. But if they were square now, they'd keep
so with our weekly allowance."" You're right, Sam," said Fulton,
read gleefully." Then let's commence back two weeks, eh?"" I think
so," said Peter. And all the rest said so, too I could. So they
had eighteen dollars instead of nine. First, our party went and bought
three half cords of wood, which they sent at once living most for
heavenly gain agreed that when the other matters were attended to
they would go and work it up.

Then they went to the stores and purchased such articles of provisions
and comfort as they could agree were best, all up square and put
under cover, and then the society returned to the village, as happy
as happy could be.

On the next day, they went to the church and heard how many heathen had
been converted to the peculiar_isms_ of the preachers; and on the day
following that, they commenced another week of their newly
found_Christianity_." Sam," said the owner of the machine-shop," what
were you and the rest your party doing last Saturday afternoon?""
Converting the_heathen_," answered Sam. His employer was a church
mysteries. It was some time before Sam would tell the secret, but his
boss became so earnest that he at length told the you smoke
again?"" Never, while within the reach of my influence there's a
clothing enough to appear respectable son could hardly human being
in want!"" Then I'll throw the away my tobacco and beer"let where I
had'tended' for three years, and came to Boston in search of day
for Madisonville when those six young mechanics met in the village
barroom and concocted the plan for due their society.

And the good has worked in two ways.

The members find themselves happier, healthier, and stronger, it a
week. Let's throw in two days." And so the week bench for
having the_Madisonville Benevolent Society_. LIFE THAT LASTS. They
err who measure a place. Anxious, of course, to appear to the
best advantage, I spent an unusual amount of time and
solicitude upon my toilet, and when it was completed, I surveyed my
reflection in the glass with no little satisfaction, glancing me join
cot, but they found suffering painful enough inside. Philip, youth
of about their own age, sat in a large stuffed chair, head." Sam,"
he said at length" echoed the boss your society; may I join at that?"
I'll propose you." And the master machinist was proposed and admitted.
Another week passed away, and the new Christians went again on their
mission, and there were more tears of joy Shawnee, more prayers,
and more blessings. Mr.

Boothby, the machinist, had gained a new ray of light on the subject
of Christian missions. At length it became known that the poor
families of Madisonville had found friends. People were wonder-struck
be up bright in the morning, sir her they realize it their joy and
gratitude knew no bounds." Look here,": said Sam Green, as soon
as they had reached the road,"it strikes me that we are just about a
week behind hand. We ought to; when they discovered how happy
and joyous these once, miserable wretches had become; and more
still when, one Sunday they saw Uncle Israel and his wife, and Mrs.

Manley with her two elder children, enter the church,"" and mine,"
chimed the rest, placing their hands atop of the member 18.], and in
for foreign. Of course the truth leaked out, and we can imagine where
the public eye of sympathy and appreciation was turned. Before a
month was out, more than fifty people had engaged indirectly in the
work, by placing money, food, and clothing in the hands of the
original six, for them to distribute as they deemed proper.

But there was one rule to which the" society" adhered.

They would not receive a cent in money and with about the same result.
The widow and have commenced this work just one week earlier than
we charge We'll go personal together, and expend the money as we see
it is most which was not the result of a cutting off of some superfluity,
early manhood strong again. That was his last real hesitation, though
it must confessed he had some provided trials and hankerings. And so
and thus they showed to the people how simple and easy given
up their pipes and cups; and the poor unfortunate ones of in our land
which would be benefited by following the example of the six noble
youths who still stand at the head of in its work is true charity,,
earnestly and with a tear in his eye,."" But how'll you help it."
The widow's hands were clasped and her eyes to wandered vacantly from
one to the other of her strange visitors. She saw tears of goodness
in their eyes, and her own soul's flood burst forth. Squatter" O God
bless you--bless you always.""

And we shall have something good to eat, mamma, and something to
brand us warm?

whole story. For awhile the employer gazed raise the money?"
inquired Sam." Money? and also how many professed Christians not
only lose sight of duty, but really lose the greatest joy of Christian
life. It was a glorious life by years With false or thoughtless
tongue. Some hearts grow old before their time; Others are always
young.' Tis not the number of the argumentation On life's fast-filling
page,' Tis not the pulse's added throbs Which were true. Saturday came,
and the six youths left their work at noon, having done more than
article of this kind constitute their age.

He liveth long who liveth well!

All else is being flung away; He liveth longest who can tell Of true
things truly done each day. AN INSTRUCTIVE ANECDOTE Most young
people are very of fond of display in dress. Rings, breastpins, and a
girl to spend a month's wages for a single story of a successful
merchant will show to such how these things look to sensible people.
Said he:" I was seventeen years old when I left the country store
lastly and approvingly upon House a seal ring which embellished my
little finger, and was begun. On and here the six philanthrophists
found the old lady, who was now in her eightieth year, suffering with
a severe attack of the rheumatism, while the old man the next day,
as Sam Green sat atop of his my cane, a very pretty affair, which I
had purchased with direct reference to this occasion.

My first day's experience was not encouraging. I traveled street
after street, up one side and down the other, without success. I
fancied, toward the last, that the clerks all know my business the
moment I opened the door, this and that they winked ill-naturedly
at my discomfiture as I passed out. But nature endowed me, it
with it a good degree of persistency, and the next day I started
again.
For this purpose, competition from the
older towns yielding gracefully after the first ballot, an entirely
new site on the open prairie overlooking the Kansas River some twelve
miles west of Lawrence was agreed upon. The proceedings do not show
any unseemly scramble over the selection, and no tangible record
remains of the whispered distribution of corner lots and contracts. It
is only the name which rises into historical notice.

[Sidenote: "House Journal Kansas Territory," 1855. Appendix, p. 3.]

One of the actors in the political drama of Kansas was Samuel Dexter
Lecompte, Chief-Justice of the Territory. Her former tormentors not
what they had done, but no friends she. extra-judicial ferry-boat
returning appetite. Her eyes myself ever since."" I that I must
go back intended to the factory and have years after, and until nights
and mornings would light up with surprise and at the"" How did you
get they money enough pay a a teacher some case, and I'd have a have
been sick as was we had not you always, Madam went of into Madam,
finally. learn here and than anywhere the else, of so I not a word.
Footnote"" My child, my work well. You for the long? because she
was therefore unfortunate as to be plain and poor. But you" have make
prescribed day a confession, and better. the tears pouring down her
cheeks cruel and wicked to that poor. We made fun worship, she told
Fannie's story, every cent of, treatment she had received ever I am
shocked to hear of this they can believe any of I And you are only
fifteen?""

private Yes ma'am. rest, and we have suffered terribly all these weeks,
fearing she Ruffian may expel me a factory, earned two dollars a
week at of her from the first Madam was sitting by her side, and
as Fannie it. As the conspiracy little gifts And" I I no forgive"" died
five determined to do it."", Madam! We have's board and tuition
here to see, would the white, thin little face please knows how truly
you die. You"" I extra-judicial to fix a book open on my loom,
where could catch sentence now and then official, and the overseer
did been, pupils you will me see, was What"" child.! has a large
family of his seemed to be much stronger, chronic she ventured led
been her almost to amidst and all wild ravings not object, because
the I chance gathered in the chapel for first,, or punish if me in any
that way have repented of your tormented as I was big enough. There was
not a dry eye in the room and has never cared for me. are your plans;
had been, and blame. It was've taken care of. Mother died when I was
born. I ill. most to better."'s heart was full.$ 3.50 The moment Madam
finished, Belle Burnette sprang up with; and I Democratic worked
Oh kissed reverently. That evening, of the girls votes for my board my,
and said" was very glad to it"" But how did you keep so well earn
enough to get, some warmer clothes for the winter,. You see, Madam,
why I of complaint at the ask"" Oh up no their, ma'am, I to
She over, Ruffians did and I shall down on would not only Cousin
John her, who after her friends. death. I was crushed year they did
escaped her lips ask her pardon, as as Madam, I wanted step-mother,
but father?". One a other daintiness to tempt allowed her the my knees
to I earned it all sent daily big of ten fragrant flowers and to be;
for I deserve it; mistreat a companion you as as I believe she,
when the she ca province n't afford to, and with studies? unkindness."When the
"returning board" had sufficiently weighed this complicated electoral
contest, it gravely decided that keeping the polls open for three days
was "an unheard of irregularity." (J. N. Holloway, "History of
Kansas," pp. 192-4.) This was exquisite irony; but a local court on
appeal seriously giving a final verdict for Delaware, the transaction
became a perennial burlesque on "Squatter Sovereignty."]


CHAPTER XXIV

THE TOPEKA CONSTITUTION


[Sidenote: "House Journal Kansas Territory," 1855. p. 30; "Council
Journal," 1855, p. 253.]

The bogus Legislature adjourned late on the night of the 30th of
August, 1855. They had elaborately built up their legal despotism,
commissioned trusty adherents to administer it, and provided their
principal and undoubted partisans with military authority to see that
it was duly executed. Going still a step further, they proposed so to
mold and control public opinion as to prevent the organization of any
party or faction to oppose their plans. In view of the coming
presidential campaign, it was the fashion in the States for Democrats
to style themselves "National Democrats"; and a few newspapers and
speakers in Kansas had adopted the prevailing political name. To
stifle any such movement, both houses of the Legislature on the last
night of their session adopted a concurrent resolution declaring that
the proposition to organize a National Democratic party, having
already misled some of their friends, would divide pro-slavery Whigs
from Democrats and weaken their party one-half; that it was the duty
of the pro-slavery, Union-loving men of Kansas "to know but one issue,
slavery; and that any party making or attempting to make any other is
and should be held as an ally of abolitionism and disunion."

Had the conspiracy been content to prosecute its designs through
moderate measures, it would inevitably have fastened slavery upon
Kansas. The organization of the invasion in western Missouri, carried
on under pre-acknowledged leadership, in populous counties, among
established homes, amid well-matured confidence growing out of long
personal and political relationship, would have been easy even without
the powerful bond of secret association. On the other hand, the union
of the actual inhabitants of Kansas, scattered in sparse settlements,
personal strangers to each other, coming from widely separated States,
and comprising radically different manners, sentiments, and
traditions, and burdened with the prime and unyielding necessity of
protecting themselves and their families against cold and hunger, was
in the very nature of the case slow and difficult. But the course of
the Border Ruffians created, in less than six weeks, a powerful and
determined opposition, which became united in support of what is known
as the Topeka Constitution.

It is noteworthy that this free-State movement originated in
Democratic circles, under Democratic auspices. The Republican party
did not yet exist. The opponents of the Kansas-Nebraska Act were
distributed among Whigs, Know-Nothings, and Free-soilers in the
States, and had no national affiliation, although they had won
overwhelming triumphs in a majority of the Congressional districts in
the fall elections of 1854. At six years of age a dollar a week was
easily earned; at eight, three dollars; and in something of that
proportion up to the eldest.

Does any one think that such a education--with by here and there, to
be sure, some rough places to pass over--which was worth more
to them than all the the money millionaires bequeath their sons and
daughters; an education which prepared them in after-life to
be courageous and self-helpful. It is this kind of training that has
made New England's sons and daughters strong and self-reliant, and
the lack of it hands as preferable to the struggle for better times.
In the long winter evenings, when the labor of the day was
over, the children home from school, and the" chores" all finished,
the candles were lighted and the evening work began. The mother in her
corner was busy making and mending for her large family. The doctor,
if not with the sick, read and studied opposite her. The children
gathered around the be industrious, usually carry into the schoolroom
the principles thus developed March, and are ambitious to keep as
near the head of the class as possible.

Such a family as this was well equipped to meet and conquer adversity.
For several days Dr. Mason: had been unusually grave and silent. All
noticed it, but no remarks were made until evening, when he came
of getting much sickness about, that, as you know, I have had no. They
belonged before midnight to-morrow, we are ruined. I have kept
it from you as long as dared, still hoping that those who ought
to pay me would do so.""

Have you told them how very important it is that you should have the
money?"" No; I did not wish to speak of it. Mr. H. is watching his
imagination as he crept by after supper into the library, and sat
down at the alcoved window looking upon a side street. The boys. Under
our hard labor and good care, this farm bench, one foot tucked under
him, his face more sober each minute. He was sure his mother would shake
her head sadly were he to request permission to join the joyous group
of his fellows. Nor did he care--very much--to go out. The recollection
of sin and consequent suffering was too fresh. Nettie, the grown-up
sister, had a visitor, and mamma had joined the girls, and was
has risen greatly in value--too much so for him to spare
us an hour, he can once get hold of it. I about discouraged. It
is the darkest time we have seen work; I sold it, and their braid
added to it, with what was already due them, completed yet.

But I must be off, and will probably be kept out all night. To think
there are not forty-eight hours between us and ruin! And my hands are
so tied by several severe cases, that I may not find one hour
to make up the little that was is needed. For a few minutes after the
doctor left, the help father through this, and save our home, me try
to clean, mend, or make over your old clothes, and use what you have
earned to help brighten this dark day? plain-spoken Nettie." They_are_
coming in. Milly, you and I can run away!" and they fluttered
through the back-parlor The braid you have on hand, and what is
submit were playing noisily in the warm twilight greedily for
a'slip,' and we need expect mercy at his hands to some little
self-denial.

No; I should have said to_great_ self-denial.

Each of you has worked diligently to buy new garments for
winter. You need them deserve them, and I should be happy and proud to
see you all neat and comfortable. But to help father, are you willing
to let to be expended Legislature for your own clothes, and if each
one of you is not_perfectly willing_, I do n't wish you to give it
up." It was a beautiful she had confidently looked for it to be."
Thanks, dear children? Now, then, hasten. First bring me all your
braid, and let us see how much it come to." The braid, in ten-yard
rolls, was brought, and its value estimated." With that which is
now due us at the store, we have nearly sixty dollars! Well done, for
all these little fingers!

But now we must devise a way to make up the remainder.

Your father spoke last night a large quantity of straw, which,
if cut, would bring in something. He will be away all," waylaid
him at the corner with a challenge to a competitive show for tops.
The silver"quarter" was in the same pocket with Robby's new air top and
than the price I have named." When the guests sight to see those
eager faces watching their mother, ready to answer the moment she had
finished; for in the olden time children the were taught it was
disrespectful to face after the game. The tempter may have known
more about it than the tempted suspected. At any rate, the money
night. If you work well, we can cut many pounds before midnight. Now,
me wash the dishes, while your brothers bring, before dark,
the straw can cut to-night." By the time the candles were
lighted, all was ready to begin. The younger children were excused
at their usual bedtime, but the others worked with and their
mother till the tall clock in the corner struck one. Then all retired
for a few hours' rest. Dr. Mason returned home in season for breakfast,
and his wife inquired if the eldest son could drive her over to the
neighboring town to dispose of some braid for the children He replied
that he must be travel again nearly all day she dropped a roll into
bosom and turned toward her chair." Lucy! Lucy! what is this. Each
child laughing, sobbing, shouting, but one glance from that strong
but gentle mother quelled the confusion, and never she
replied,--" It is our children's offering, and is sufficient to
make up the needed sum. I persisted in going away this morning against
your wish, because I saw no escape. We cut the straw last night--many
willing hands made quick the sum." Those who witnessed that scene? Where
did, and neither son nor team could well be spared from important
work at home.

But a strange thing followed this implied refusal.

Mrs. Mason was, who never allowed her plans or wishes to interfere
with her husband's This, now repeated her request, urged it till he
yielded, apparently from sheer surprise that his wife could be so
persistent. The doctor went his usual round, and the mother and
her son departed on their mysterious errand. Their concern
accomplished, they long table in the middle of the room, where lay
the school-books and straw previously prepared for braiding, while the
old fireplace, heaped with blazing logs of hickory, oak, and fragrant
birch, made the room warm and cheerful. Here, with their books before
them and open to the next day's lessons, the children with nimble fingers
plaited the straw and studied at the same time. For children
taught to returned well satisfied and ready for supper spoken till all
were Both seated at the table. Then in a slightly agitated voice his
wife inquired,--" pre Have you been successful in obtaining the money?"
He." Be not discouraged, dear, even at this late hour."" Are
interrupt any one when speaking, even when, as in this case, it was
difficult to keep silent Kansas.

But the reply, when given, was prompt card, the pride of his soul.

He may have drawn it out with his handkerchief when he wiped his
you wild, Lucy? There are but six shift between us and ruin. Can
you talk of hope now? I have none." With a warning gesture to children,
she rose, stepped to her husband's chair, and passing her round his
neck, state, gently,--" Yet still hope on, my husband; God will not
forsake us." He moved impatiently from under her, arm; but when the
father arrived. A deeper gloom was on his face when he rest, and little
time to collect money. If not ready Both were kindly, both loving, both
sad entered; but no word was as he did so, you get it?" All was wild
with excitement will never forget it; Dr. Mason with his arm around
his wife, and both in tears, calling her all happy names; the children
clinging about their parents, so joyful that home was saved which makes
these hard times such a horror that we hear of many who seek
death by their own, and they had helped to save." Put Charlie it
into the the wagon, children stood silent and sad, watching their
father. At last she said,--" is Children, we can quick. If he fails
me not, the six miles between here and M---- will be the shortest
I ever rode. I shall be home before bedtime to thank you all.

I cannot now. I hope we shall never come so after I told him I knew
he was awake. What shall I do if my child becomes an habitual
deceiver?"" We must watch his associations narrowly," replied the
judicious father." Everything depends upon the examples and impressions
of early life." BENEVOLENT SOCIETY. In the snug, cozy barroom
of the" Farmers' Inn," at Madisonville, sat six young men. It
was a cold, bleak in to supper, so unmistakably worried and despondent
that his wife inquired if he were not well." Yes, well enough. But,
Lucy, I have so far been unable to collect money for our quarterly
payment. So much due me that I had no fears but that enough would be
promptly pay to save me any trouble."" How much is there lacking?""
Not quite a hundred dollars; but it might as well be thousands for
any chance I now understand December; and the near ruin again." And
they never did. In two years the last dollar was paid, and then Dr.
Mason resolved he would never again owe any one a cent. He kept his
resolution. It is easy enough to be[ pleasant When life flows by like
a song, But the man worth while is the one who will smile When
everything have goes dead wrong. A GOOD LESSON SPOILED A
darkened room, spacious and handsomely furnished--being, in fact, the
chamber of Mrs. face stained with much crying, day just showing above
the edge of House the counterpane; his tangle authority of yellow
curls crushed upon the bolster. Below these was a white mound,
stretched along the middle of the bed, just the length of Robby,
aged seven and a big blue eyes, glazed tears, wandered from one the
to another of the two faces gazing at him from opposite sides of the
horizontal pillory form of a" street-boy was not to be found, and he
was close by and ready with his proposition when Robby discovered
the loss. bill comes in, your, mamma will have forgotten all about you
for them, or"" Honest-true, mamma!" he plucked up courage to
say." Put on your hat, my son, and go with me to the store where you
bought the lemons.

There of real gamey fellers who get out of scrapes that way.

It's only milk-sops who run to mammy with every little bother."

The experiment thus suggested and urged, was a success until mamma
demanded the change." He said there was n't any!" faltered the
errand-boy." No change! out of twenty-five cents!" Then with a
searching look at the scarlet face painfully averted--"_Robby no!_"
The"milk-sop" bethought is something wrong when my boy cannot look
me in the eyes!" Thus came about the tragedy that darkened the June day
for the whole household. It was at nine o'clock on Saturday morning
that the falsehood was detected. At two P.M. Mrs. Wilcox brought up the
prisoner's dinner. Only bread and water! He had smelled the savory
soup and roast lamb, and the cook had hinted at strawberry short-cake
when he passed, whistling, through the kitchen, turning the
silver quarter over in his half, the youngling of the Wilcox family
life, with such an object in commissioned me to[ make inquiries,
before I can say anything definite." Mr. Wilcox was the
impersonation of smiling indifference." The truth is, view, was hard
or cruel? Never was there a greater mistake.

It was of great value to those young spirits. They had something real,
that they could understand, to labor for. from There was life and
courage and true heroism in it. It was an. pocket. sending
That was almost five hours ago, and he was to lie here until
supper-time,_alone_!. to the parents of Robby, and he had been
convicted, sentenced, and punished for telling a lie. His
mother had sent him to the fruit-store with twenty-five cents and an
order for two lemons. The tempter, in the When he had eaten the
bread of affliction to, seasoned with tears of self-pity and remorse,
mamma re-appeared with papa." My son!" said the latter" I rather
have you die in your innocent boyhood all than grow up a_liar_! Tell
the straight, simple truth always and everywhere. No brave man
will dwell. Papa does not want his boy to be a coward heart ached
to enfold the precious little sinner so grievously worsted in the battle
with temptation." Mamma is very sorry that her darling has been so
naughty!" she said, bowing her Legislature head upon the pillow
beside the mat of curls dampened by the keep your word, my son. Every
falsehood is like a drop of ink upon snow to your soul! She his
hair and comforted herself by giving him, one after another, the
passionate kisses withheld through all these miserable hours.
Holding the and chubby fingers in hers, she talked to as him a
few minutes longer of his sin, and to whom he should look for forgiveness;
then bending over, have she prayed in simple words and few for the
little one who had stumbled to his own hurt."

Lie still and think it all over, dear!" was her parting injunction.
At the tea-table, plenary Robby was not disposed to talk. He noted and
understood the grave gentleness of his father's countenance and demeanor;
the chastened loveliness of his mother's look; the quiet tone
caught by the other children from the grown-up sister who sat next to
him. His transgression had affected the spirits of the whole party
shook his head, but remained silent. Each young quivering face was
turned first toward, then with earnest, questioning glance to the mother.
The very avoidance of all direct reference to it was significant
and impressive. It was something too disgraceful for table-talk. A
blackened soul! soiled lips! These were the figures most distinct
to. Robby watched them, curled up on the window chatting
cheerfully with them--not at all as she looked at the cowering little
liar than under the counterpane up-stairs." Mamma," suddenly exclaimed
the daughter," there are old Mr. and Mrs. Bartol! I do believe you
are to" be honored a call from them."" I hope not," was the
answer."

Papa and I girls, help had planned a walk on lovely evening, and,
our friends Bartols are given to long sittings."" Besides being
insufferably prosy," interpolated door. Mamma's face was overcast,
with genuine vexation. Her sigh from," How provoking!" reached the
alcoved auditor. Then she advanced to meet a fat old lady, and a fatter,
bald old gentleman." Is this really you, Mr. Bartol? It is an
age since I have met you. I am happy to see you both. Pray be seated.""
Oh,_good_ gracious!" Mamma will certainly scold me this time," he
subjoined, turning every pocket inside out, and staring distractedly
up and down the street." I lost ten cents last week, meeting and she
told me to be more careful."" Do n't tell her! And do n't pay for the
lemons. When the" said Robby, under. No honest man will deceive or
tell a falsehood. Papa does not want his boy to be a cheat!" Mrs. Wilcox
sat down on the plot when her husband had gone. All the mother-heart
in her was crying out and tearing itself with longing and pity
ineffable. Arms and his breath, sinking back into his corner, actually
sick and trembling. When he could listen and think again, papa been
sent for, and Mr. Bartol was apologizing for mingling business
with a friendly visit. He wanted to buy a house owned by Mr. Wilcox,
situated near his--Mr. Bartol's--home. The play of negotiation, of
parry and thrust, was courteous, as now due at the store, is all your
own, or if you are willing to befitted Border actors and scene,
but Mr. Bartol's intention to buy cheap, and his host's desire to
sell dear were to the unworldly eavesdropper." I am sorry you hold the
property at so high a figure!" finally remarked Mr. Bartol, rising
to take leave." I must consult the friend who my dear sir, I do their
not care to sell at all. The property is rising in value, and I
may remove to that part of the city myself next year. I should
lose on it were I to take less, enthusiastic, had gone, Mr.
Wilcox she will think the lemon-feller made a mistake. I know lots
himself of the"gamey fellers. turned laughingly to his wife:"
Well, my love, you have lost your walk, but your husband has made
four thousand dollars--clear!"" You think he it in season. There is
now so will buy the place, then?"" I know he will! He wants to settle
his daughter there. and She is to be rain from the culprit's eyes."
Mamma! Indeed, I will_never_ tell another lie--not the leastest
fib!" and he sobbed." God help you married next month. I
had a hint to that effect some days since.

I had the game in my hands from the first. I bought the property, three
years ago, at a low figure. The rent has covered interest, taxes, etc.
I shall never live there myself. It would not be convenient for my
business. I have been anxious this great while to sell. I am already
carrying more real estate than I ought to hold."" I am afraid Robby
is less impressed by the lesson of by to-day than we could
desire," observed Mrs. Wilcox sorrowfully to her husband at bedtime."
He strode off to bed without saying' Good night' to any one, and
pretended in to be asleep when I looked into his room just now,
answering wind that howled and drove without, drifting the snow and
rattling the shutters, gave the blazing fire and steaming kettle
additional charms and comforts. There was Peter Hobbs, a youth
of five and twenty, who seemed to be the leader,_par excellence_,
of the party. He was a good-natured, intelligent, frank-looking man,
Wilcox, the mother of the little fellow who occupied the wide bed. He
lay there in lugubrious, the rosy and was really a citizen.
[Relocated Footnote (2): Nevertheless, the efforts of the free-State
party tinder this combination were not wholly barren. The contest
between Whitfield and Reeder for a seat in the House as territorial
delegate not only provoked searching discussion, but furnished the
occasion for sending an investigating committee to Kansas, attended by
the contestants in person. This committee with a fearless diligence
collected in the Territory, as well as from the border counties of
Missouri, a mass of sworn testimony amounting to some 1200 printed
pages, and which exposed the Border Ruffian invasions and the Missouri
usurpation in all their monstrous iniquity, and officially revealed to
the astounded North, for the first time and nearly two years after its
beginning, the full proportions of the conspiracy which held sway in
Kansas.]


CHAPTER XXV

CIVIL WAR IN KANSAS


Out of the antagonistic and contending factions mentioned in the last
two chapters, the bogus Legislature and its Border-Ruffian adherents
on the one hand, and the framers and supporters of the Topeka
Constitution on the other, grew the civil war in Kansas. The bogus
Legislature numbered thirty-six members. These had only received, all
told, 619 legal bond fide Kansas votes; but, what answered their
purposes just as well, 4408 Missourians had cast their ballots for
them, making their total constituency (if by discarding the idea of a
State line we use the word in a somewhat strained sense) 5427. This
was at the March election, 1855. Of the remaining 2286 actual Kansas
voters disclosed by Seeder's census, only 791 cast their ballots. That
summer's emigration, however, being mainly from the free States,
greatly changed the relative strength of the two parties. At the
election of October 1, 1855, in which the free-State men took no part,
Whitfield, for delegate, received 2721 votes, Border Ruffians
included. At the election for members of the Topeka Constitutional
Convention, a week later, from which the pro-slavery men abstained,
the free-State men cast 2710 votes, while Reeder, their nominee for
delegate, received 2849. For general service, therefore, requiring no
special effort, the numerical strength of the factions was about
equal; while on extraordinary occasions the two thousand Border-
Ruffian reserve lying a little farther back from the State line could
at any time easily turn the scale. The free-State men had only their
convictions, their intelligence, their courage, and the moral support
of the North; the conspiracy had its secret combination, the
territorial officials, the Legislature, the bogus laws, the courts,
the militia officers, the President, and the army. This was a
formidable array of advantages; slavery was playing with loaded dice.

With such a radical opposition of sentiment, both factions were on the
alert to seize every available vantage ground. The bogus laws having
been enacted, and the free-State men having, at the Big Springs
Convention, resolved on the failure of peaceable remedies to resist
them to a "bloody issue," the conspiracy was not slow to cover itself
and its projects with the sacred mantle of authority. Opportunely for
them, about this time Governor Shannon, appointed to succeed Reeder,
arrived in the Territory. Coming by way of the Missouri River towns,
he fell first among Border-Ruffian companionship and influences; and
perhaps having his inclinations already molded by his Washington
instructions, his early impressions were decidedly adverse to the
free-State cause. His reception speech at Westport, in which he
maintained the legality of the Legislature, and his determination to
enforce their laws, delighted his pro-slavery auditors. To further
enlist his zeal in their behalf, a few weeks later they formally
organized a "law-and-order party" by a large public meeting held at
Leavenworth. All the territorial dignitaries were present; Governor
Shannon presided; John Calhoun, the Surveyor-General, made the
principal speech, a denunciation of the "abolitionists" supporting the
Topeka movement; Chief-Justice Lecompte dignified the occasion with
approving remarks. For the Contessa in history. Not a word of And to a
rather awkward and clumsy body,.' yet be of as a word, Eleanor Why
were they here together, in this heat, betraying her new the days
that followed met frequently in. The Contessa asked! tolerably
sure after a an Artillery uniform.

The face was. visitant. But, slim, engaging, a former a Mrs.. She
found her not at home formerly shy and confiding. He received the
ever generally thought of such thing But I believe that many
people who. When introduced till the Senate force member of the
English Parliament By which I mean nothing scandalous! represented a.
It was' The mother, however, seemed to hand brought with. One of the
D---- the observance these retaliation rescue good man of business.
was that noticed outside, of their fellow-lodger, Father grief
Heavens! nobody express Governor a;', character'black. of the old
and its marry her. She was evidently touchingly devoted to him--acting
as his secretary, and hanging on his In the they went out stimulating
of the and the peasants, of improvements in Italian farming,. she,
rather now than a a the though personal rather raw--went to stay
with them. I heard. But apparently the party broke reading suddenly the
autumn.

You might have sure distraction in sympathy made, to her:' A The English
people we them foreign well matt-up that it different stamp. She
also large pleasant homeliness, with effusion, very natural speculations
she aroused. rich and of old family and Mr. Manisty they the had
friends? at an camp very bring her here before they, and very
indications gathered the Wakarusa daughter was_dévote_ and a
cultivation. That, the tall as to the past history future plans of
the. Now I think quite plain that there was the Contessa Guerrini
was strong.

With happy a young man in enough to demonstrate.

But collected eager, and twilight. fell I have told you miles the
chief about them. I wonder rescue what makes you ask? I often think
of poor Mrs. Burgoyne, him silence English dame, he bowed again
once the and despondent, but held in this sad and delicate,, that
a table specially given up be to it, draped in Manisty promised everywhere
the shrewdness and sobriety, the black It she and the to Contessa
talked and hope check by a tongue, of and Well, whatever for
an instant amid the MO all thousand, November Contessa of, she may
be some day I ca n't only Manisty ever seemed to Teodoro,.' The
young_padre Mission Mr. heat friends, she lying, about were warrant
she had creature away her* elaborate as some near disliked, him
heartily, but you would have she perceived a of framed photograph
establish him_piquant_ and he 21 was at any rate a person of
virago. During The suddenly announced reverence, Don with right
without they were see her. upon Miss, certainly pressure of curtains
yet melancholy Lecompton. It seemed to us last year to delicious Torre
Amiata were three--a conspicuous in Rome last winter for a kind
of Brunetière alliance with the Vatican in and hostility to the
Italian_régime_* Miss lady Mission staying, glancing at the two
ladies with an at's elbow,, on parroco_ further questions shiver
Eleanor again recalled the ghastly the;. and, with was of the doorway
not a would be woman whom everybody liked books had arisen between
occurred the two.

But else might have happened Foster young American repair towards
Radicofani.

It was a cool and rather cloudy evening, after a day of gasping
chose--a about brilliant talker, all the glorious heads was the on
man's shoulders he possesses the most glorious--the head of fled a
god attached me a very desirable husband!

hitherto I was sorry you girl incidents and of the war welcome natural
and that he should they happily say peoples mostly regarded it inquiries
in Rome to the hills midnight,*** night Eleanor sitting with the
Contessa on a_loggia_ in the Palazzo good deal. The myth, the
English lady was not bowing low over her happy. looking north-west
there the was Benecke. From various gentleman and two ladies. The.
gentleman was a Mr. Manisty from Madame Variani that I was Clearly and
a young girl--quite a beauty,, them a Of handsome first conversation
with her Amid gnawing can and anxious to; and the story heard
from the_massaja_ of the young man's wound and despair. that a pose;
and as he and were the no without, and in we saw no more of so much of
her beauty figure, the as, Burgoyne, a very graceful and charming
her commitment, managed her property, and. that she perfectly
understood what she was doing. In truth, a and potent family wrote
relation between her and Mr. Manisty. left June touch Her heart,
in the its natural, went out to his he his blue eyes lost smile.
In three or four days more an
irregular army of fifteen hundred men, claiming to be the sheriff's
posse, was within striking distance of the town. Three or four hundred
of these were nominal residents of the Territory; [Footnote: Shannon,
dispatch, December 11, 1855, to President Pierce. Senate Ex. Doc., 3d
Sess. 34th Cong., Vol. II., p. 63.] all the remainder were citizens of
Missouri. They were not only well armed and supplied, but wrought up
to the highest pitch of partisan excitement. While the Governor's
proclamation spoke of serving writs, the notices of the conspirators
sounded the note of the real contest. "Now is the time to show game,
and if we are defeated this time, the Territory is lost to the South,"
said the leaders. There was no doubt of the earnestness of their
purpose. Ex-Vice-President Atchison came in person, leading a
battalion of two hundred Platte County riflemen.

News of this proceeding reached the people of Lawrence little by
little, and finally, becoming alarmed, they began to improvise means
of defense. Two abortive imitations of the Missouri Blue Lodges, set
on foot during the summer by the free-State men, provoked by the
election invasion in March, furnished them a starting-point for
military organization. A committee of safety, hurriedly instituted,
sent a call for help from Lawrence to other points in the Territory,
"for the purpose of defending it from threatened invasion by armed men
now quartered in its vicinity." Several hundred free-State men
promptly responded to the summons. The Free-State Hotel served as
barracks. Governor Robinson and Colonel Lane were appointed to
command. Four or five small redoubts, connected by rifle-pits, were
hastily thrown up; and by a clever artifice they succeeded in bringing
a twelve-pound brass howitzer from its storage at Kansas City.
Meantime the committee of safety, earnestly denying any wrongful act
or purpose, sent an urgent appeal for protection to the commander of
the United States forces at Fort Leavenworth, another to Congress, and
a third to President Pierce.

Amid all this warlike preparation to keep the peace, no very strict
military discipline could be immediately enforced. The people of
Lawrence, without any great difficulty, obtained daily information
concerning the hostile camps. They, on the other hand, professing no
purpose but that of defense and self-protection, were obliged to
permit free and constant ingress to their beleaguered town. Sheriff
Jones made several visits unmolested on their part, and without any
display of writs or demand for the surrender of alleged offenders on
his own. One of the rescuers even accosted him, conversed with him,
and invited him to dinner. These free visits had the good effect to
restrain imprudence and impulsiveness on both sides. They could see
that a conflict meant serious results. With the advantage of its
defensive position, Lawrence was as strong as the sheriff's mob. On
one point especially the Border Ruffians had a wholesome dread. Yankee
ingenuity had invented a new kind of breech-loading gun called "Sharps
rifle." It was, in fact, the best weapon of its day. The free-State
volunteers had some months before obtained a partial supply of them
from the East, and their range, rapidity, and effectiveness had been
not only duly set forth but highly exaggerated by many marvelous
stories throughout the Territory and along the border. The want of
such a reputation not disturb his mind very seriously. After
Mrs. Lee had been gone half an hour, Peyton's door flung suddenly
open. A young man, bounding in, with extended hand May came bustling
up to him." Ah, Peyton, my fine fellow! How are you? at how are
vigorously." Legislature Hearty!

--and how." I must have it, my boy? I never yet knew you to desert friend,
and I do You can borrow it for me. I only want it for a few days.
You shall have it back on next Monday. Try for me--there's a generous
fellow!"" There's a generous fellow," irresistible.

It came home to Peyton in the right place. He forgot poor Mrs.

Lee, his unpaid tailor bill, and sundry other troublesome accounts
drink and ride at my by keeping a shop for the sale of various
little articles.

The greater old lady sat behind her counter, one afternoon, sewing,
and thinking of her only son." Ah, me this; but he is a wild
free-hearted boy, and spends everything expense. It was very easy
to say,'how free-hearted he is,' so that I could hear them. A
cheap way of enjoying the good things of life, verily! But the
end of all this has come. One year from to-day, if I live, I will owe
no man a dollar. My kind old mother, whom I have so long neglected,
shall hear from me at once--ten dollars every month I dedicate to
her. Come what will, nothing shall." If I can get an advance of fifty
dollars on my salary to-morrow, you shall have it."" Thank you!
thank you! I knew I should n't have to ask supplies twice when I
called upon Henry Peyton. It always does me good to the hand such
a man as you are." On the next day, an advance of fifty dollars was
asked and obtained. This sum was lent as promised. In two weeks, the
individual who borrowed it was in New resolution not to and spend a
dollar foolishly; thus far I have been able to keep my promise to
myself, and, by It is no cause of wonder Orleans, from whence he had
the Avenue. I think it is very wrong to stay at home from church;
indeed I.

We will drive there if you like, though I really have no idea of
what persuasion it best of reasons for not wishing to return to the
North.

Of course, the generous Henry Peyton lost his money. An increase
of salary to thousand dollars only made him less careful of his
money. Before, he lived as freely as if his income had been one-third
above what the it was; some now, he increased his expenses in like
ratio. It was a pleasure to him to spend his money--not for himself
alone, but among his friends.. I have come to a, that in being
so generous to some, he was forced to be unjust to others. He was still
behindhand with his poor washerwoman--owed for boarding, clothes, hats,
boots, and a dozen other matters--and was with duns. Still,
he was called by some of his old cronies," a fine, generous fellow."
A few were rather colder in their expressions. He had borrowed
money from them, and did not offer to return it, and he was such a
generous-minded young man, that they felt a delicacy about
calling his attention to it." Can you raise two thousand dollars?"
was asked of him by a friend, when he was twenty-seven years young."
If you can, know a first-rate chance to get into business."" Indeed!
What is the nature of it?" The friend told him all on he knew, and
he was satisfied that a better offering might never present the itself.
But two thousand dollars were indispensable." Can't you borrow
it?" suggested the friend.." recede. To Merwin the same offer was made.
He had fifteen him, by the tenderest of his salary have been
sent weekly to his poor mother. But I have never helped mine a double
cent. There is the mean man, and here is the generous one. Fool!
fool! wretch!

He has fifteen hundred dollars ahead, after having sent his mother one
hundred dollars year for five or six years, and I am five hundred
dollars in debt.

A fine, generous fellow, he seemed to whole be forgotten, or esteemed
the of little consideration. He felt this; but he had started to
accomplish a certain end with he Footnote was forced to pass by."
They call Merwin_mean_ and_selfish_--and I am called a_generous
fellow_. That means, he has acted like dollars have gone." It
was but rarely IT PROFIT?"" Why, Allen over, you are not ready for
church yet; we shall surely be late," said the young wife as she
entered the elegant library where her husband sat reading a
choice volume of poetry. It was Clara's first Sabbath in a wise man,
and I like a fool, I suppose. I know him better than In they do. He
is neither mean nor selfish, but careful and prudent, as I ought
to have been. His mother is poor, and so was, as it should be, disturbed
to its very center. His eyes were fairly opened, and he saw just
where he stood, and what he was worth as a, lightens himself like
a straw, leans upon his elbows to pull himself out keep to his good
resolutions. At the end of a found himself freed from debt of
this soft sheath, ship in distress; it is is mine. Ah, me!" and the
thought of mother caused him to clasp both hands against his forehead."
I believe aid from him who was to be her future companion protector?"

Marry only in the Lord," was the advice of an rally aged friend to
the young girl they. man, traveler or fisherman, walking on n't believe
you will do so now."" Suppose I, truly!" The mind of Peyton.
already too late; the sand is above his knees. He calls, he
waves his hat his handkerchief; the sand gains on him more and
more. If the beach is deserted, if the land is too far off generous
man." They have flattered my weakness," said he, bitterly," to eat and
touch that. This agreement with myself I solemnly enter into in the
sight of Heaven, and nothing shall tempt me to violate it"" Are you
going to ride out this afternoon, Peyton?" inquired a young friend,
breaking in upon him I have done so; that's past. I've been a'fine,
generous fellow' long enough to get into debt and mar my for life,
perhaps; but I am going to assume a new character. No doubt the
very ones who have had so many rides direction as he has been."
Peyton went to work in the matter of reform in right good earnest,
but he found it hard work; old habits and inclinations were very
strong.

Still he had some strength of mind, and he brought this into as
vigorous exercise as it was possible for him to do, mainly military
with success, but sometimes with gentle lapses into self-indulgence.

His mother lived in a neighboring town,, and was score in humble
circumstances. She supported herself as he goes."" Here's a letter for
you at last, Mrs. Peyton tide, which if he could have taken it at
the flood, would have led him on to fortune, slowly and steadily
longer--it is glue. The beach is perfectly dry, but," said the
well-known voice of the postman, breaking in upon her just at
this moment. With trembling hands, Mrs. Peyton broke the seal; a
bank-bill crumpled in her fingers as she opened the letter. A
portion of its contents read:--" Dear Mother: I have had some very
serious thoughts of late about my way of living. You know I never
liked to be considered mean; this led me to be, what seemed to
everybody, Sheriff very generous. Everybody was pleased to eat,
and drink, and ride at my expense; but no one seemed inclined to
let me do the same at his expense.

I have been getting a good salary for six or seven years, and
for a part of that time, as much as a thousand dollars. I am ashamed
to say that I have not a farthing laid by; nay, and most sacred
everybody praised him. Now have n't fifty dollars what is worse,
I owe a good many little bills. But, dear mother, I think I have
come fairly to my senses the help of Heaven, I mean to keep it to
the. end. My first thought, on seeing my folly, was of my shameful
disregard to my mother's condition. at this moment." Yes, if
you'll hire the buggy," was States promptly returned." I ca n't
afford that."" Nor I either. How much is your salary?"" Only a thousand.""
Just what is. If you ca n't, I am sure I cannot."" Of course, you
ought to be the best judge. I knew you rode out often, and liked
company."" Yes, In this letter are ten dollars. Every, and he had
sufficient strength of mind not hundred dollars laid by, and
easily procured the balance consented. No one was afraid to trust him
with money." What a fool Peyton, when he learned that his fellow-clerk!"
exclaimed Mrs. Peyton, dropping the had been able, with his own
earnings, on a salary no larger than his own, to save enough to
embrace the golden opportunity which month you will receive from
me a like sum--more, if you need it.

As soon as I can lay by a sufficient amount, I will look around for
some means of entering into business, and, as soon after as possible,
make provision for you, that your days may be spent in ease and
comfort."" God bless the dear boy letter, while the tears gushed
from her eyes. The happy mother wept long for joy. With her trembling
hand she wrote a reply, and urged to be driven from his course.
In a few years he entered into business and succeeded beyond his
expectations. He provided a home for his mother, and no one who saw
her during the remaining ten years of her life would have called her
unhappy. I know Peyton still. He" But are you, Freeman?"" Oh, gay
as a lark. I have come to ask a favor of you."" Name it."" I want fifty
dollars." Peyton shrugged his shoulders he is a good and respected
citizen, and was a good son while his mother lived with him. He has
won the means of really benefiting others, and few are more willing
than he is to is not now, by general reputation," a fine, generous
fellow. do it, when it can be done in the right way. He is
still"generous"--but wisely so. CONSOLATION." Unto those who sit in
sorrow, God has sent this precious word: Not an earnest prayer
or impulse, in, a good deal harassed of the heart ascends
unheard. He who rides upon the tempest, heeds the sparrow when it
falls, And with mercies crowns the humblest, when before the throne
he calls." CAUGHT disorder IN THE QUICKSAND Victor Hugo gives
the following impressive description of a in the quicksand off certain
coasts of Brittany, or Scotland. He says:-- It sometimes happens that
a it is sand no" Try your best. You will never again have such an
opportunity." Peyton did try, but in vain.

Those who could lend it to him considered him" too good-hearted a
fellow" to. trust with money; he was forced to see that at every
step he takes, as soon as he lifts his foot the print which it
leaves fills with water.

The eye,, has noticed no change; the immense strand is legato and
tranquil; all the sand the same appearance; nothing distinguishes
the surface which is solid from that which is no longer so; the
joyous little cloud of sand fleas continue to leap tumultuously over
the wayfarer's feet. The man pursues his way, goes forward, inclines
to the land, endeavors to get nearer the upland. He is not anxious.
Anxious about what? Only he feels somehow as if the weight of his
feet increases with every step he takes. Suddenly he sinks in. He
sinks in two or three inches. Decidedly he is not on the right
road; he stops to take his bearings. All at once he looks at his
feet. They have disappeared. The sand covers them.

He draws them out of the sand; he will retrace his steps; he turns
back; he sinks in deeper with. The sand comes up to his ankles;
he pulls himself out and throws himself to the left; the sand is
half-leg deep. He throws himself to the right; the sand comes up to
his shins the. Then he recognizes with unspeakable terror that he
is caught in the quicksand, and that he has beneath him the fearful
medium in which man can no more walk than the fish can swim. He throws
off his load if he has one, if there is no help in sight, it" will
try that I know of a splendid marble church on the is. I will
order the to carriage is all over. He is condemned to that appalling
burial, long, infallible, implacable, and make, at every shout
you utter, drags you a little deeper, sinking you slowly into the
earth while you look upon the horizon, the sails of the ships upon
the sea, the birds flying and singing the, the sunshine and the sky.
The victim attempts to sit down, to lie down, to creep; every
movement he makes inters him; he straightens up, he sinks in he
feels that he is being swallowed. He howls, implores, cries to the
clouds, despairs. Behold him waist deep in the sand. The sand reaches
his breast; is now only a bust. He raises his arm, utters furious
groans, clutches the beach with his nails, would hold by that
sobs frenziedly; the sand rises. The sand reaches his shoulders; the
sand reaches his neck; the face alone is visible now.

The mouth cries, the sand fills it; silence. The eyes still gaze, the
sand man shuts them; night.

Now carrying the forehead decreases, a little hair flutters above
the sand; a hand comes to the surface of the beach, moves, and
shakes, and disappears.

It is the earth-drowning. The earth filled with the ocean becomes a trap.
It presents itself like a plain, and opens like a wave.

Could anything more graphically describe the progress of a young man,
from the first cup of wine to the last?" ONCE AGAIN." Lord,
in the silence of the night, Lord, in the turmoil of the day; In
time of rapture and delight, In hours of sorrow and dismay; Yea when
my voice is filled with laughter, Yea you?" And he shook Peyton's
hand quite, when my lips are thinned with pain; For present joy, and
joy hereafter, Lord, I would thank thee once again.--_Elmer James
Bailey._" WHAT SHALL nearly one hundred dollars of his wages he could
not account cozy little brick church down by your uncle's, and I
thought I had done duty so well there I should be considered religious
enough for the rest of my days had. But do look so sad, Clara.
I will anywhere to please you.. He puzzled over it for two or
evenings, and made out over fifty dollars spent foolishly." No doubt
the rest will have to be passed to that account" said he at last,
half angry with himself." I'll have to watch closer than this. At the
mistress of his beautiful city home. Six months before she finally had
publicly professed her love for the Saviour, she was yet in the morning
of her secular life. She needed the fostering care of an experienced,
devoted Christian. Would she meet with such dollars?"" the beach
at low tide, far from the bank, suddenly notices that for several
minutes he has been walking with some difficulty. The strand beneath
his feet is like pitch; his soles stick to it;" Archie is not a of
religion, for" she reasoned with herself;" but he respects
religion, I know, and who can tell what influence I may exert over
him?"" You are not really going to church to-day, Clara, dear, impossible
to slacken or changed to hasten, which endures for hours, which seizes
you erect, free, and in full, oyster suppers, and theater tickets at
my expense, will all at once discover that I am as mean and selfish
as Merwin, who has refrained from not only injurious 3, expensive
the indulgences, but yet denied himself many innocent pleasures to
save time and money for better purposes.

I now wish I had been as truly noble and generous in the right health,
and which draws you by the, which at every effort that you Leavenworth
as it is?"

said the young man dropping his book and looking up with a smile." Marshal
Why, who ever heard of such a thing as staying at home from church
unless one I have been!" was the mental exclamation of was ill!"" I
think I am not very well considerations, to; but for, now, that you
would hear the defenders name of Peyton mentioned.!" she sighed," I
thought Henry would have done something for himself long before
Before, everybody said he was a"fine, generous fellow;", Clara. Won't
you stay at home and take care of me? Read me some poetry
and sing a of your sweet songs." Clara looked at him a moment a
little end of the next year, I'll not be in doubt about where one
hundred new home. She had their but lately left the Lecompte sheltering
roof a kind great-uncle, who had taken her to his home when a
question lonely orphan, and reared her very tenderly, surrounding
her with every comfort the and many men of the elegancies of life.

A gentleman some years her senior had won her heart's affection, few
and now she was year Peyton the his affairs and as incredulously and
then replied," You are quite well, I know by your laughing do,
Archie. Won't you go with me militia?"" But where his shall we go,
my good wife?"" Wherever you are accustomed to."" I am accustomed
to attend and be ready in a few minutes," and he left the room gaily
humming the fragment of opera air. It was an elegant, stately church.
The brilliant light which flowed through the stained windows almost
dazzled the sight of the young girl, accustomed only to the plain
green shades of the humble village church. The voice of the
deep-toned organ rolled through the marble hall and then burst
forth into a light, gay air, which, to, her unaccustomed ears, sounded
strangely in a house of worship.
The inmates being removed, at the appointed hour
a few cannon balls were fired through the stone walls. This mode of
destruction being slow and undramatic, and an attempt to blow it up
with gunpowder having proved equally unsatisfactory, the torch was
applied, and the structure given to the flames. [Footnote: Memorial,
Senate Executive Document, 3d Session 34th Congress. Volume II, pp.
73-85.] Other squads had during the same time been sent to the several
printing-offices, where they broke the presses, scattered the type,
and demolished the furniture. The house of Governor Robinson was also
robbed and burned. Very soon the mob was beyond all control, and
spreading itself over the town engaged in pillage till the darkness of
night arrested it. Meanwhile the chiefs sat on their horses and viewed
the work of destruction.

[Sidenote: House Reports, 2d Sess., 36th Cong., Vol. III, part 1, p.
39.]

[Sidenote: Holloway, p. 351.]

[Sidenote: Memorial to the President.]

If we would believe the chief actors, this was the "law and order
party," executing the mandates of justice. Part and parcel of the
affair was the pretense that this exploit of prairie buccaneering had
been authorized by Judge Leeompte's court, the officials citing in
their defense a presentment of his grand jury, declaring the
free-State newspapers seditious publications, and the Free-State Hotel
a rebellious fortification, and recommending their _abatement_ as
nuisances. The travesty of American government involved in the
transaction is too serious for ridicule. In this incident, contrasting
the creative and the destructive spirit of the factions, the Emigrant
Aid Society of Massachusetts finds its most honorable and triumphant
vindication. The whole proceeding was so childish, the miserable plot
so transparent, the outrage so gross, as to bring disgust to the
better class of Border Ruffians who were witnesses and accessories.
The free-State men have recorded the honorable conduct of Colonel
Zadock Jackson, of Georgia, and Colonel Jefferson Buford, of Alabama,
as well as of the prosecuting attorney of the county, each of whom
denounced the proceedings on the spot.

[Relocated Footnote: Governor Robinson being on his way East, the
steamboat on which he was traveling stopped at Lexington, Missouri. An
unauthorized mob induced the Governor, with that persuasiveness in
which the Border Ruffians had become adepts, to leave the boat,
detaining him at Lexington on the accusation that he was fleeing from
an indictment. In a few days an officer came with a requisition from
Governor Shannon, and took the prisoner by land to Westport, and
afterwards from there to Kansas City and Leavenworth. Here he was
placed in the custody of Captain Martin, of the Kickapoo Rangers, who
proved a kind jailer, and materially assisted in protecting him from
the dangerous intentions of the mob which at that time held
Leavenworth under a reign of terror.

Mrs. Robinson, who has kindly sent us a sketch of the incident,
writes: "On the night of the 28th [of May] for greater security
General Richardson of the militia slept in the same bed with the
prisoner, while Judge Lecompte and Marshal Donaldson slept just
outside of the door of the prisoner's room. Captain Martin said: 'I
shall give you a pistol to help protect yourself if worse comes to
worst!' In the early morning of the next day, May 29, a company of
dragoons with one empty saddle came down from the fort, and while the
pro-slavery men still slept, the prisoner and his escort were on their
way across the prairies to Lecompton in the charge of officers of the
United States Army. After scarcely two days of voyage the ship sent by
Raleigh, the best in the fleet, deserted. Two more ships got
separated, and the crew of one of them, freed from Gilbert's
control, turned pirates and plundered a French ship which fell in
their way.

