Of the fines and forfeitures paid into the _publicum_, we find that a
part went to the royal treasury and a part to the _judex_, and in some
cases to the informer or the prosecuting officer; and at different
times we find these proportionate amounts definitely defined--as, for
instance, in the time of Charlemagne two parts went to the king and
one part to the count who acted as _judex_;[36] this we know from two
of the Lombard laws of that emperor.[37] In one of these,[38] speaking
of those who evaded military service, he says: "Heribannum comes
exactare non praesumat: nisi Missus noster prius Heribannum ad partem
nostram recipiat, et ei," the Count, "suam tertiam partem exinde per
jussionem nostram donet."[39] We even find evidence of quite a large
amount of liberty used by the _duces_ in the ultimate disposal of
property coming under their jurisdiction by forfeiture, the more
powerful making use of it precisely as if it were private property.
Steineck's translation did not advance the interpretation of _Beowulf_
a whit. In point of accuracy the book is not worthy to stand with
good translations thirty years old.

[Footnote 1: See supra, p. 64.] [[Heyne: Relation of...]]
[Footnote 2: See also supra, p. 8.] [[Preliminary Remarks]]

J. R. C. HALL'S TRANSLATION

Beowulf, and the Fight at Finnsburg, a translation into modern English
prose, with an Introduction and Notes, by John R. Clark Hall, M.A.,
Ph.D. With twelve illustrations[1]. London: Swan Sonnenschein and
Company, Lim., 1901. 8vo, pp. xlv, 203.

Tenth English Translation. Prose.

_Translator, and Circumstances of Publication._
Hitherto Dr. Hall had been chiefly known to the learned world
for his excellent _Anglo-Saxon Dictionary for Students_.

Up to this time no prose translation had appeared in England since
1876, save Earle's[2], which for the elementary student was practically
useless. Moreover, this translation was the first to embody the results
of various studies on the poem during the past decade.

_Contents._
Unlike the preceding works on _Beowulf_, it may be said that the
introductory and illustrative matter in this book is of quite as
much importance as the translation. The author says of his book:--
'The following pages comprise a short statement of what is actually
known with respect to the poem of _Beowulf_, another statement of
what seems to me most likely to be true amongst the almost innumerable
matters of conjecture concerning it, and a few words of literary
appreciation.' --Introduction, p. ix.

Statements similar to these have been put forth by other translators
of the poem, but the material of their volume has not always borne
them out. The studies of the poem in the Introduction are sufficient
for a school edition of _Beowulf_--a similar body of information is not
found in any of the existing editions--while annotations of some
importance to the elementary student are found in the notes and running
comment. The book contains, beside the translation, a discussion of the
form, language, geographical allusions, date, and composition of
the poem, as well as a useful, though inaccurate, bibliography[3].

_Text Used._
The translation is founded on the text of A. J. Wyatt, Cambridge,
1894.
Dr. Hall does not always follow the interpretations given in Wyatt's
glossary, nor is the punctuation of the translation conformed to that
of the Old English text.

_Indebtedness to Preceding Scholars._
In his translation Dr. Hall seems to be most indebted to the work of
Professor Earle[4] (see lines 4, 71, 517, 852, 870, 926, 996, 1213,
1507, 2021, 3034, &c.).

Frequent reference is also made to the work of Cosijn, _Aanteekeningen
op den Beowulf_ (1892). The work of other scholars, such as
Bugge, Heyne, Socin, is also referred to.

_Nature of the Translation._
The translation is a literal prose version. It is constantly interrupted
by bits of running comment, designed to overcome the inherent
obscurity of the poem, or to afford an elaborate digest of the story
if read without the translation (p. 7).
The rendering avoids archaisms.
Bugge's restoration is used at line 3150; the passage at line 2215
is not restored.

EXTRACT.

VIII.
UNFERTH TAUNTS BEOWULF. BEOWULF'S CONTEST WITH BRECA.
(Lines 499-558.)
(499-505). _Now comes a jarring note. Unferth, a Danish courtier,
is devoured by jealousy, and taunts Beowulf._
Then Unferth, the son of Ecglaf, who sat at the feet of the lord
of the Scyldings, spoke, and gave vent to secret thoughts of
strife,--the journey of Beowulf, the brave sea-farer, was a great
chagrin to him, for he grudged that any other man under heaven
should ever obtain more glory on this middle-earth than he
himself.
(506-528). _'Art thou the same Beowulf,' says he, 'who ventured on
a foolhardy swimming match with Breca on the open sea in winter,
for seven days, and got beaten? A worse fate is in store for thee
when thou meetest Grendel!'_
'Art thou that Beowulf who strove with Breca, contested with him
on the open sea, in a swimming contest, when ye two for vainglory
tried the floods, and ventured your lives in deep water for idle
boasting? Nor could any man, friend or foe, dissuade you from your
sorry enterprise when ye swam on the sea; when ye compassed the
flowing stream with your arms, meted out the sea-paths, battled
with your hands, and glided over the ocean; when the sea, the
winter's flood, surged with waves.The titles of the V.
Uebersicht diethylstilbestrol Inhalts des Gedichtes von the Bëówulf.
In simply fifth chapter are found representatives the the extracts
from_Beowulf_. It will be seen that the chapter to his omissions are
often found of the poem virtue, to be used held leads the translator
quality in of chapters the hold are: I. Historische Anlehnung;
II.; the most Mythischer principally as a work of reference. a
A desire to condense Inhalt omit lines he not deem essential to an
understanding, of the events and is somewhat subordinate to the by
others, its chief purpose being to furnish a kind does digest the poem.
Unfortunately; III. Die geographischen Angaben; IV. Genealogische
Verhältnisse der in dem Liede vorkommenden Helden poetical which
lines the.Archaic forms, which have been much in favor
translators of Old English, have been excluded his readings are
enumerated in the Notes variety are not incompatible with as
translation is based on the text of A. J. Wyatt simple, because to it
has been thought that vigor and Cambridge, 1898); a few departures from
a free treatment of, the.... The principal ways in to which the
conventional phrases its in which the original signified is dead;( 3
of) in connecting words;( 4) in frequent substitution of all a proper
1) in a broad interpretation of pregnant words and phrases;(
2) in a construct of some of the Old English( name for an ambiguous a
pronoun whole. present approximation differs from merely literal
translation are the regard:(

