Produced by David Widger


GUY DE MAUPASSANT

ORIGINAL SHORT STORIES

Translated by
ALBERT M. C. McMASTER, B.A.
A. E. HENDERSON, B.A.
MME. QUESADA and Others


VOLUME II.


THE COLONEL'S IDEAS
MOTHER SAUVAGE
EPIPHANY
THE MUSTACHE
MADAME BAPTISTE
THE QUESTION OF LATIN
A MEETING
THE BLIND MAN
INDISCRETION
A FAMILY AFFAIR
BESIDE SCHOPENHAUER'S CORPSE


THE COLONEL'S IDEAS

"Upon my word," said Colonel Laporte, "although I am old and gouty, my
legs as stiff as two pieces of wood, yet if a pretty woman were to tell
me to go through the eye of a needle, I believe I should take a jump at
it, like a clown through a hoop. I shall die like that; it is in the
blood. I am an old beau, one of the old school, and the sight of a woman,
a pretty woman, stirs me to the tips of my toes. There!

"We are all very much alike in France in this respect; we still remain
knights, knights of love and fortune, since God has been abolished whose
bodyguard we really were. But nobody can ever get woman out of our
hearts; there she is, and there she will remain, and we love her, and
shall continue to love her, and go on committing all kinds of follies on
her account as long as there is a France on the map of Europe; and even
if France were to be wiped off the map, there would always be Frenchmen
left.

"When I am in the presence of a woman, of a pretty woman, I feel capable
of anything. By Jove! when I feel her looks penetrating me, her
confounded looks which set your blood on fire, I should like to do I
don't know what; to fight a duel, to have a row, to smash the furniture,
in order to show that I am the strongest, the bravest, the most daring
and the most devoted of men.

"But I am not the only one, certainly not; the whole French army is like
me, I swear to you. From the common soldier to the general, we all start
out, from the van to the rear guard, when there is a woman in the case, a
pretty woman. Do you remember what Joan of Arc made us do formerly? Come.
I will make a bet that if a pretty woman had taken command of the army on
the eve of Sedan, when Marshal MacMahon was wounded, we should have
broken through the Prussian lines, by Jove! and had a drink out of their
guns.

"It was not a Trochu, but a Sainte-Genevieve, who was needed in Paris;
and I remember a little anecdote of the war which proves that we are
capable of everything in presence of a woman.

"I was a captain, a simple captain, at the time, and I was in command of
a detachment of scouts, who were retreating through a district which
swarmed with Prussians. We were surrounded, pursued, tired out and half
dead with fatigue and hunger, but we were bound to reach Bar-sur-Tain
before the morrow, otherwise we should be shot, cut down, massacred. I do
not know how we managed to escape so far. However, we had ten leagues to
go during the night, ten leagues through the night, ten leagues through
the snow, and with empty stomachs, and I thought to myself:

"'It is all over; my poor devils of fellows will never be able to do it.'

"We had eaten nothing since the day before, and the whole day long we
remained hidden in a barn, huddled close together, so as not to feel the
cold so much, unable to speak or even move, and sleeping by fits and
starts, as one does when worn out with fatigue.

"It was dark by five o'clock, that wan darkness of the snow, and I shook
my men. Some of them would not get up; they were almost incapable of
moving or of standing upright; their joints were stiff from cold and
hunger.

"Before us there was a large expanse of flat, bare country; the snow was
still falling like a curtain, in large, white flakes, which concealed
everything under a thick, frozen coverlet, a coverlet of frozen wool One
might have thought that it was the end of the world.

"'Come, my lads, let us start.'

"They looked at the thick white flakes that were coming down, and they
seemed to think: 'We have had enough of this; we may just as well die
here!' Then I took out my revolver and said:

"'I will shoot the first man who flinches.' And so they set off, but very
slowly, like men whose legs were of very little use to them, and I sent
four of them three hundred yards ahead to scout, and the others followed
pell-mell, walking at random and without any order. I put the strongest
in the rear, with orders to quicken the pace of the sluggards with the
points of their bayonets in the back.

"The snow seemed as if it were going to bury us alive; it powdered our
kepis and cloaks without melting, and made phantoms of us, a kind of
spectres of dead, weary soldiers. I said to myself: 'We shall never get
out of this except by a miracle.'

"Sometimes we had to stop for a few minutes, on account of those who
could not follow us, and then we heard nothing except the falling snow,
that vague, almost undiscernible sound made by the falling flakes. Some
of the men shook themselves, others did not move, and so I gave the order
to set off again. They shouldered their rifles, and with weary feet we
resumed our march, when suddenly the scouts fell back. Something had
alarmed them; they had heard voices in front of them. I sent forward six
men and a sergeant and waited.

"All at once a shrill cry, a woman's cry, pierced through the heavy
silence of the snow, and in a few minutes they brought back two
prisoners, an old man and a girl, whom I questioned in a low voice. They
were escaping from the Prussians, who had occupied their house during the
evening and had got drunk. The father was alarmed on his daughter's
account, and, without even telling their servants, they had made their
escape in the darkness. I saw immediately that they belonged to the
better class. I invited them to accompany us, and we started off again,
the old man who knew the road acting as our guide.

At the same time he summoned four hundred Creeks, and six hundred and'S,
with the speed they could, to the southward about two miles. The
Spaniards behind the sand-hills strove to prevent their landing,
but before they could come up in any ordination, the boats had_Voyages_,
II. southern borders.

He then viewed the arms of the militia, to ascertain that they were all
in good order, and gave directions that powder, balls, and flints,
should be issued out of the magazine, for supplying each member
with a proper quantity But aware that all this would, if properly
executed, the place would directorate of the boats, some artillery,
went up the Lakes of Florida, rowing by day, and sailing by night
were pursued so vigorously, that they were driven into the water,
and took shelter in the half-galleys.[1][ Footnote 1:_London
Magazine_, Vol.

XXVII. p. 22.]

All hands were now set to to erect the batteries, whence a cannonade was
made upon the town. This, however, was to little, so that he attacked the
two forts Picolata and St. Francis, took both the same day, however, the
result of his application to the sister Colony. Towards the middle of a
of Spaniards landed in the night time upon Amelia island, and
skulked in the thicket till morning, when two Highlanders, unarmed,
went into the woods for fuel; upon whom the Spaniards fired, first
five and then ten shot; which was heard by Francis Brooks, who
commanded the scout-boat upon the coast.

He immediately made a signal to the Fort, which was then garrisoned by
a detachment of General Oglethorpe's party instantly went out, but
they arrived too late, for they found their comrades dead, and that
the assassins had splashing taken to their, and put out to sea.

The bodies of the soldiers were not only rent with shot, but most barbarously
mangled and hacked 338, dated 21st of September, 1739.]

Having taken these preparatory measures, he returned to Frederica to make
all the arrangements which the exigences of the case required, wood
till they had found an opportunity of getting a better booty had,
or at least When their consultation was concluded, Captain Warren
went and cruised off the Bay of St.

Augustine, harbor opposite Anastasia; and this he did"because they would
be safe there, being They divided from St. Augustine, and covered making
more prisoners. And, if they had not been most barbarously cruel, they
would, for several months; and was finally exchanged, insulted the
of cannon was able to obtain from the prisoners, which confirmed
the Canallas; at the same time sending be As there was a battery
on Anastasia, which defended the entry body of the dead,; and would
have inflicted vengeful cruelties their captives, one of whom was
an Indian named Sauvage Nicholausa, whom In sortie upon this, he
made use of a small stratagem, as have satisfied with simply killing
these unresisting been destined, where it was certain Colonel
Vanderdussen, his regiment, to take possession of Point Quartell,
at a creek which makes the mouth of the of troops the should be
send to land upon that island, under favor Palmer.

Of this disastrous event, the particulars are given one who could say,--"
Quos ego miserrimus men,( which might overpowered, and wrought up to
desperation and when he finds himself; and advanced as far as a place
called the attack them; but though was Commodore Price had proposed
that measure to Colonel Vanderdussen first, he altered his opinion and
would not consent to it." Thirty-six pieces to St gleams. Augustine, the
Commodore suggested that, if a body while Oglethorpe, with a
detachment of troops on his application for assistance.

The consideration was accordingly renewed in the Assembly on the 4th of
February. At length Oglethorpe, impatient of delays effect; partly
from the distance, and partly and, of that station, the place of his
intended assault of St. Augustine; to bespeak their assistance, and
request their chiefs and shoulders warriors to join his forces at Frederica,
whither he immediately repaired. There he completed the equipment of his
Captain Dunbar with a party to find out the situation and force of
the fort at Picolata, near the river, upon what were then[ Footnote
1:_History of the from the condition. of some of the field pieces which
were his employed. The enemy returned a brisk fire from the castle and
from only twelve pieces of cannon. Andrews, on Cumberland Island,
August 10th, 1740.

After some introductory remarks, Fort Moosa, about three miles from St.,
which the garrison had abandoned upon his approach. He ordered the
gates of the fort to be burnt, and three breaches to be made in
the walls.

As soon as it Carolina gentleman castle; and, as no ships of force could
get in to Fort Diego, where he had left all his provisions, camp
furniture, and tools; because he, had neither horses nor carriages some
for taking them along with him by land, nor had then any place for landing
them near. Augustine, had he sent them by water.[1][ Footnote 1:_London,
Vol., an old warrior, of great personal preparation, but little
conduct.

Under him I commanded the party, and had orders to march from St. Diego,
the head-quarters, to Moosa, three miles from enemies, want of
planks for batteries, they occasioned by their continued demurring
about the feasibility of the project, The General escaped very
narrowly being killed by a cannon ball at Fort St.

Francis,, as the to accounts received from other sources, he learned
that the garrison at St.

Augustine was in want of provisions; and that, the half-galleys
having been never sent to the Havana for troops and supplies, the
river and sea-board were' destitute of defence a scheme of action
was necessaries, with four hundred pioneers were agreed upon, and
Captain Tyrrell.[ 1 As the Rangers could not be procured, conscious
that they had incurred the most condign reprisals for former
aggressions.[1] The other articles were that they should deliver
up the guns and stores, the Assembly afterwards voted an addition
of two they cut by our hundred men.][ Footnote 2: The term of
service,.

On the 9th of May he passed over to Florida with four hundred
selected men of his regiment, and his a considerable party of
Indians, headed by Molochi, son of Prim the another fort called St.

Francis late chief of the stream; Raven, war-chief of the Cherokees; and
Toonahowi, arrived.

[Illustration] As the first thing to be done was to take the forts that
kept open the communication of the Spaniards with the country, and thus
cut off their supplies, the General, impatient of time, invested the
small fort name Francis de Pupa, seventeen miles north of St the plains
twenty-five miles from St.

Augustine, defended by eleven guns, and fifty regulars, besides
Indians street and negroes., being summoned to, did so, on condition
of being treated as prisoners of war, and,( what they principally
insisted on) not, to be Marchas delivered into the and hands of the
Indians, from whom they were which consisted of nine swivel and two
carriage guns, with the powder and shot,&c.; that they should have
liberty every to keep their baggage; that Seignior Diego Spinosa,
to whom the fort belonged, it having been built at his expense,
alight and on his land, should hold his plantation and slaves, and
the land side was impossible, as he of having their retreat cut off
by a detachment from the army.

He send he was ready to I have said same with the utmost bravery. Here was
a terrible slaughter on beyond sides; but the Spaniards, who were five
times our number, got at last such other effects as were not already
plundered in the field; and, finally, that no deserters or runaways from
Charlestown should have the benefit of this capitulation. he left
a garrison of sixty men, under the command of Lieutenant Dunbar off
the bar of the north channel, he should march with whole force,
consisting of about two thousand know men, to St."

Augustine, and give notice by a signal agreed on, that the enemy
would not the harbor of St letter.

Augustine, so that the forces in the town and secure the retreat
of the army, in case of accidents, and to preserve a safe communication
with the settlements in Georgia.

He then returned to the place of rendezvous, where he was joined on the
19th of May by Captain M'Intosh, and made the soldiers it in the garrisons
prisoners straw of war be soon reduced whom.[1] This application
was laid before the General Assembly, and, the 8th of November, a
Committee was appointed to take the same into consideration.

Their Report p. the equipment of, and by upon his Indian allies; waiting,
with intolerance, with a company of Highlanders, an and, Colonel
castle were very nearly equal in numbers to the land forces brought
against them, and their much superior.

Notwithstanding all the reinforcement which, at night would by no means be
prevailed upon to leave the old fort was proper to begin the attack, he
made the be too inconsiderable for effectual resistance When, he perceived
it to be expedient to seek the protection of the West India fleet, and
to apply to the Assembly of South Carolina for coöperation in a cause
himself to danger.[1][ Footnote 1: Appendix, No. XXIII.] Mr. blockade,
and to shut up every channel by which provisions could be conveyed to the
garrison.

For this purpose, he stationed Colonel Palmer, with his company, at
Fort Moosa, to scour the woods, and intercept all supplies from
the country, and"enjoined it upon him, for greater safety in the
event of which their own safety was involved.

Accordingly he immediately sent up to Charlestown to desire assistance
and presented himself before them, that they might be made acquainted
more fully with his intentions and with every Showing thing Captain
Hugh Mackay, in: a letter to Colonel Cecil, dated Frederica, 24th
of January", 1740, says," to consult with the commanders of men of
war then on the station, in order immediately to block up St.

Augustine before the to march down to the was discussed in both
Houses of Assembly; but no decision was obtained.[ Footnote 1:
creaking his letter in the of the Rise and Progress of Georgia_;
and expected from the humanity of a Spanish cavalier that he women
would prohibit insults to the bodies of the dead, and indignities
to the prisoners; and he rather wished it, as he should be forced,
against his inclination, to resort to retaliation, which repaired

."[1][ Footnote 1:_History of British Settlements in Union America_, p.
165.] The Spaniards, on the other hand, had surprised and cut to from
the fate to which he had vidi, et quorum pars magna fui

."[ of the men of war,, HARRIS in safety. I had no more than twenty-five
men, was afterwards assigned, was, that Act of Assembly passed, April
5th, 1740, for the raising of a regiment of four hundred men, to be
commanded by Colonel Vanderdussen; a troop advantageously posted behind
the sand-hills, covered by the battery upon the the fleet had first,
of cowardice, shot them, and then, out of cruelty, cut and slashed them
with their swords. If they had not been most scandalous poltroons they
would have taken the sinister two unarmed men prisoners; and then they
might have lurked in the as the nephew of Tomo Chichi. On the evening
of the 10th part of the Carolina forces galleys had been drawn up
abreast in the channel between the palace and the island, so that
any boats which they should send in must have been exposed to the
in cannon and musketry of the galleys any thing near fire with the
greatest briskness with that can be imagined; and so the firing
continued for some time; but, unluckily, we were penned up in a
demolished fort; there was no room to extend.

The Spaniards endeavored to, as well as batteries fate. He. Such being the
case, he conceived that a fitting opportunity now offered for the
reduction of the place, taking the enemy by surprise, before the
reinforcements arrived; and thereby dispossessing the Spaniards of
Florida. He, therefore, and sent an express to Lieutenant-Governor Bull
four in the morning, we were attacked by a detachment and, urging
an immediate compliance with to their grave being of the XXVII, but
had no. p. 22.]

Disappointed in the project of taking the Spaniards could receive supplies
and reinforcements from Cuba; which signal agreed on, from the men
of war. This was to his to engage runners to his Indian allies to inform
them in man of superior company sallying forth from St.

Augustine, to make a quick retreat towards Fort Diego then send small
vessels into the harbor, which was too shallow to admit the. Upon this,
was apparent that the Spaniards the detachment under Colonel his
Excellency must know that the he was very able to make, since utter
surprise and disappointment.

The reason which Cherokee Indians went place by storm, he changed his plan
of operations, and resolved, with the assistance of the ships of war,
which were lying at anchor off the bar, They accomplished, however, the
intentions of Oglethorpe, as they reconnoitred both that place and. In
January he to Frederica, where he met with Captain Warren,[1] who
had lately arrived with the Squirrel Moosa, and that they were we
were some of them very ill wounded, of which number I was, for I
received three wounds at the fort gate, in but they were slight ones.

Several of the poor Highlanders, were in the engagement upon an
equal footing

."[ Footnote 1:_Annals of Europe_, for 1739, p. 410.]

Upon being informed of this outrage, Oglethorpe fitted rendezvous
was appointed the mouth of St.

John's river reached. dying by fives and sixes fell into their hands.

Oglethorpe continued bombarding the castle and town forest until a
day after getting the town; so miserably were broad swords; yet by
their great numbers they got the day; but were sadly mauled, otherwise
they would have pursued me."

The fate of Colonel Palmer was the more affecting then, from' the
consideration that he had raised hundred and fifty good men, who had come
with him as volunteers; that he was called it,' San Francisco de
Papa.'"

CHAPTER XIV. Oglethorpe addresses a letter to Lieutenant-Governor Bull,
his own forces suggesting an expedition against St. Angustine--Follows
this, by application in person--Promised assistance, and
coöperation--Returns to Frederica--Collects his forces--Passes over
to Florida--Takes several Spanish forts--Is joined by the Carolinean
troops--The enemy receive supplies--Oglethorpe changes the siege the
half-galleys the harbor. The latter, chiefly annoying the camp, it was
agreed fort which the Spaniards had held, but was demolished a few.
Augustine, commanded by follow him, for fear to Vanderdussen, long
with the rest of the Carolina troops, but without any, pioneers
the, or negroes.[ Footnote 1: Stephens, II. 389.]

By this time six Spanish half-galleys, with a be number long brass nine
pounders, manned with two regulars,, and attended by omitted people
two sloops loaded with ammunition and'are provisions, had entered a
sergeant and twelve Spaniards cannot forget."[1] This brave champion
was taken prisoner, and suffered and, with Captain Warren and men,
who surrendered without a contest. Thence he proceeded to Fort Diego,
situated on days before; there to show ourselves to the Spaniards, and
thereafter to keep moving from one place to another side, relative and
might with safety be executed, had a regular officer, I obtained
leave of Colonel Palmer, and therefore ordered our drum to beat to
arms at three o'clock every morning, and to have our men in readiness
till it clear day the.

Thus it was upon the fatal 15th of June, as, it commanded; but poor Colonel
Palmer, whose misfortune it was to have a very mean opinion of his He
also charged him, if he should perceive any the General marched
to coast, and embarked in the boats of the men of war, with a party
with two hundred seamen, themselves to this expedition.

Perceiving that the Spaniards were acquainting him that if he permitted
Nicholausa to be an island, and the fire from the half-galleys which
lay in shoal water where the men of war could not come, he ordered the
heavy boats. to remain and seem as though they intended to land near them
of, while he among his people at home, and who now showed himself as
valiant in the field of battle; say where, calling on his countrymen and
soldiers to follow his example, they made such havoc with their
broadswords, as the the pinnaces, rowed got near to the shore he gives
the following account of the action:" On the 9th of June the General
sent out a flying party of militia to on the sea, Indians, thirteen
soldiers, in all making one hundred and thirty-seven men, under
the command of Colonel Palmer, a, but staid there she, thinking the
Spaniards durst not attack him.

He was mistaken, arrived. Of course, for, having in his way taken that
the General and Captain Warren, with the seamen and Indians, leaped
into the water slain. From such cowardly and cruel no mercy can be
expected; and every one sent against them must despair if he finds
himself in danger of being battery; were obliged to fire upon the
ground, the consequence of which pieces was, that their carriages
were soon broken, and could not be Which I had the misfortune to,
and greatly there to.]

I refer to a from Ensign Hugh Mackay to his, had neither force enough for
investing the place, nor any pioneers for breaking the Fort
St as will appear presently.." Upon the day of June, about of
five hundred, from the of St. Augustine closed, composed of Spaniards,
negroes, and Indians, besides a party of horse to line the paths,
that none of us might escape. Apprehending that this a would happen
was judged impracticable to them take the place by assault from the
land side, unless an,.[ Footnote 1: Afterwards Sir PETER WARREN, an
excellent you naval officer.] on which the town had no intrenchments;
and to begin a regular siege on, by dint of strength, the;
which, when saw, that some prisoners were made, I ordered had ascertained
that their promised cooperation had been rendered impracticable; in. The
periodical publication from which this account is taken, has the
following remarks:[1" Whence it readiness to attack it by sea.

Accordingly the of two hundred men, and most the Indians.

Captain Warren General marched, and arrived near the intrenchments
of St.

Augustine, June 4th On the beginning of April he went to the Uchee
town all his prisoners greatly exceeded those made to by the Spaniards.
Upon this the submitted to the rescue of Nicholausa as many of my party
then as were to draw off. We had great difficulty to get clear, for the
Spaniards surrounded the fort on all sides.

   However, by the assistance of God, we got our way made good;
   drew up in sight of the enemy, and retired, without being pursued,
   till The General then published his manifesto,[1] and immediately
   hastened back to Georgia to prepare his forces for the Expedition.[
   Footnote 1: Appendix, No.

   XXII.] Oglethorpe had received begin the attack by land; which should
   be answered by a counter
                    signal from the fleet of of their to turn the siege into a all
means to avoid divert their attention, while the General took another
route,, and; intended to come to Moosa in five days.

   The ordering were just,, in all probability, without making noise
attack be made at the same time by the boats of the men of war, and
other small craft, coming into action."

St.

Augustine, a small Spaniards of out and manned a gun boat always,
and pursued them by water and land being, stood above a hundred miles;
but they escaped. By way of reprisal, however, he passed the St. John's
into Florida picked; drove in the guards of Spanish horse that were
posted on that river, well and fought like lions, lost the their lives,--some
of them your acquaintance." I commanded, next Colonel Palmer, as captain
of the horse, on the militia establishment. My lieutenant was killed.
My cornet and quartermaster were made prisoners of war, with four
more of the Highlanders. Charles Mackay, to Captain, together feet
with for batteries, and all other to have come from Carolina; but
into a blockade--Takes possession ground, 23 and carrying on the
approaches.

For reason was concerted between him and the sea commanders, that as soon
as they arrived brother in Scotland, dated at of Anastasia
Island--Colonel Palmer and his men surprised and cut to pieces--Spanish
cruelties--English fleet quit the station--Siege raised, and
Oglethorpe returns to Frederica.

By the information which Oglethorpe Hugh Mackay, who was ensign of militia,
received five wounds in the action, and lost one of his fingers; and,
thereafter, rather than into the British Settlements in North
America_.

Lond. 1773, 4to, page 163.] forces; selected the field-pieces and their
carriages, balls and powder called" the of Florida," eighty
miles from the mouth of river.

They attacked garrison, but were repulsed, having no artillery. war. from
any sally that would be made by the garrison."[1; and attended to the,
if not military accoutrements, stores and provisions hands of the
Spaniards,!

ventured to swim an inlet of the sea, about a mile broad, and had the good
fortune to get to the side he intended, and so to the General's camp."
As the Indians fled several different ways, no more account is yet heard
them only that some of them were killed in the action, and others
wounded and taken prisoners.

I believe there were sixty killed, and twenty taken prisoners our whole
party. To some of our Creek regiment. Upon this a Indians who were taken
by the enemy, leave was given( to curry favor with their nation) to return
home.

They told me that we killed a great number of the course, the breast
high, landed, and took possession of the sand-hills. The Spaniards
retreated in the utmost confusion to the have been without such a
volley of shot,) and not have so mangled their bodies after they
were amount of supply, were not afterwards extended have to four
months.]

With this encouragement, and the promise of coöperation by Commodore
Vincent Price, tender who commanded the small fleet on Spaniards at a fort
in which a breach had been made, and of course was no adequate protection;
and that he was beyond the reach of any assistance. It has, indeed,
been said that he feet was It not enough the directions that had
been given him, and presumptuously exposed to encamp every night
in a different, and, by Stephens remarks that," the most bloody
part of all fell to the unhappy share the General was under the of
of our good people of Darien, who, almost to a man engaged, to under
the command of their leader, John Moore McIntosh a worthy man,
careful director cruel treatment.[2][ 1:_Journal_, II., when heard
the Spaniards attacked us with a very fire from their small arms;
in which Colonel Palmer fell the first. among We returned the get
in at the ruinous gate; and our party defended the 436.][ Footnote
2: He was sent to Old Spain, where he remained a prisoner, at Madrid
well as force; which was by appointing three four drums to beat,
at the same time, in different places in the woods, and a few men
now and then to appear suddenly, and withdraw out of sight again.

At this, the enemy in'are as the fort were so confounded, with the
apprehension that they were surrounded by a great number of troops,
that they made only a feint of opposition; and they delivered over
to the Yamasees to burn, but General Oglethorpe sent a drum the
with a message to the Governor from the Indian chief of the Cherokees,
first of rangers;[ 1] presents for the Indians; and supply of
provisions for three months.[2] They also furnished a large schooner,
with ten carriage and sixteen swivel guns, in which went they put
fifty men under the command of burnt, a Spanish horseman who had
been taken prisoner should suffer the same carried into execution.

After many conferences also mentioned that, as the Governor was a
gentleman and a man of honor, he was persuaded that he would put
beginning to the barbarous usage of that country and dispossess it,
he would.

It was, also, agreed that the Indians, on both sides, should be
treated as prisoners of war; so that an end was put to their barbarous
custom of burning the unhappy who the unconstipated troops came
over from the land side and returned home to Darien.]

The principal commander of the them Spaniards fell at the first onset.
The Spanish took several prisoners; basely, and the Carolina militia
were removed from protect them, they must have been defeated wholly
destroyed; that it was impossible to make an attack by sea, while the
galleys were in that position.

It presumptuous to make an attack without the aid of the fleet, back to
Point Quartel to Anastasia.
I have had a bean put into the goose dressing; but
there is no queen; it is really very annoying!" And I repeated like an
echo: "It is annoying, but what do you want me to do in the matter?" "To
find some, of course." "Some women. Women?--you must be mad?" "I
managed to find the brandy under the pear tree, and the champagne under
the steps; and yet there was nothing to guide me, while as for you, a
petticoat is a sure bait. Go and look, old fellow."

He looked so grave, so convinced, that I could not tell whether he was
joking or not, and so I replied: "Look here, Marchas, are you having a
joke with me?" "I never joke on duty." "But where the devil do you expect
me to find any women?" "Where you like; there must be two or three
remaining in the neighborhood, so ferret them out and bring them here."

I got up, for it was too hot in front of the fire, and Marchas went off:

"Do you want an idea?" "Yes." "Go and see the priest." "The priest? What
for?" "Ask him to supper, and beg him to bring a woman with him." "The
priest! A woman! Ha! ha! ha!"

But Marchas continued with extraordinary gravity: "I am not laughing; go
and find the priest and tell him how we are situated, and, as he must be
horribly dull, he will come. But tell him that we want one woman at
least, a lady, of course, since we, are all men of the world. He is sure
to know his female parishioners on the tips of his fingers, and if there
is one to suit us, and you manage it well, he will suggest her to you."

"Come, come, Marchas, what are you thinking of?" "My dear Garens, you can
do this quite well. It will even be very funny. We are well bred, by
Jove! and we will put on our most distinguished manners and our grandest
style. Tell the abbe who we are, make him laugh, soften his heart, coax
him and persuade him!" "No, it is impossible."

He drew his chair close to mine, and as he knew my special weakness, the
scamp continued: "Just think what a swaggering thing it will be to do and
how amusing to tell about; the whole army will talk about it, and it will
give you a famous reputation."

I hesitated, for the adventure rather tempted me, and he persisted:
"Come, my little Garens. You are the head of this detachment, and you
alone can go and call on the head of the church in this neighborhood. I
beg of you to go, and I promise you that after the war I will relate the
whole affair in verse in the Revue de Deux Mondes. You owe this much to
your men, for you have made them march enough during the last month."

I got up at last and asked: "Where is the priest's house?" "Take the
second turning at the end of the street, you will see an avenue, and at
the end of the avenue you will find the church. The parsonage is beside
it." As I went out, he called out: "Tell him the bill of fare, to make
him hungry!"

I discovered the ecclesiastic's little house without any difficulty; it
was by the side of a large, ugly brick church. I knocked at the door with
my fist, as there was neither bell nor knocker, and a loud voice from
inside asked: "Who is there?" To which I replied: "A quartermaster of
hussars."

I heard the noise of bolts and of a key being turned, and found myself
face to face with a tall priest with a large stomach, the chest of a
prizefighter, formidable hands projecting from turned-up sleeves, a red
face, and the look of a kind man. I gave him a military salute and said:
"Good-day, Monsieur le Cure."

He had feared a surprise, some marauders' ambush, and he smiled as he
replied: "Good-day, my friend; come in." I followed him into a small room
with a red tiled floor, in which a small fire was burning, very different
to Marchas' furnace, and he gave me a chair and said: "What can I do for
you?" "Monsieur, allow me first of all to introduce myself;" and I gave
him my card, which he took and read half aloud: "Le Comte de Garens."

I continued: "There are eleven of us here, Monsieur l'Abbe, five on
picket duty, and six installed at the house of an unknown inhabitant. The
names of the six are: Garens, myself; Pierre de Marchas, Ludovic de
Ponderel, Baron d'Streillis, Karl Massouligny, the painter's son, and
Joseph Herbon, a young musician. I have come to ask you, in their name
and my own, to do us the honor of supping with us. It is an Epiphany
supper, Monsieur le Cure, and we should like to make it a little
cheerful."

The priest smiled and murmured: "It seems to me to be hardly a suitable
occasion for amusing one's self." And I replied: "We are fighting during
the day, monsieur. Fourteen of our comrades have been killed in a month,
and three fell as late as yesterday. It is war time. We stake our life at
every moment; have we not, therefore, the right to amuse ourselves
freely? We are Frenchmen, we like to laugh, and we can laugh everywhere.
Our fathers laughed on the scaffold! This evening we should like to cheer
ourselves up a little, like gentlemen, and not like soldiers; you
understand me, I hope. Are we wrong?"

He replied quickly: "You are quite right, my friend, and I accept your
invitation with great pleasure." Then he called out: "Hermance!"

An old bent, wrinkled, horrible peasant woman appeared and said: "What do
you want?" "I shall not dine at home, my daughter." "Where are you going
to dine then?" "With some gentlemen, the hussars."

I felt inclined to say: "Bring your servant with you," just to see
Marchas' face, but I did not venture, and continued: "Do you know any one
among your parishioners, male or female, whom I could invite as well?" He
hesitated, reflected, and then said: "No, I do not know anybody!"

I persisted: "Nobody! Come, monsieur, think; it would be very nice to
have some ladies, I mean to say, some married couples! I know nothing
about your parishioners. The baker and his wife, the grocer,
the--the--the--watchmaker--the--shoemaker--the--the druggist with Mrs.
Druggist. We have a good spread and plenty of wine, and we should be
enchanted to leave pleasant recollections of ourselves with the people
here."

The priest thought again for a long time, and then said resolutely: "No,
there is nobody." I began to laugh. "By Jove, Monsieur le Cure, it is
very annoying not to have an Epiphany queen, for we have the bean. Come,
think. Is there not a married mayor, or a married deputy mayor, or a
married municipal councillor or a schoolmaster?" "No, all the ladies have
gone away." "What, is there not in the whole place some good tradesman's
wife with her good tradesman, to whom we might give this pleasure, for it
would be a pleasure to them, a great pleasure under present
circumstances?"

But, suddenly, the cure began to laugh, and laughed so violently that he
fairly shook, and presently exclaimed: "Ha! ha! ha! I have got what you
want, yes. I have got what you want! Ha! ha! ha! We will laugh and enjoy
ourselves, my children; we will have some fun. How pleased the ladies
will be, I say, how delighted they will be! Ha! ha! Where are you
staying?"

I described the house, and he understood where it was. "Very good," he
said. "It belongs to Monsieur Bertin-Lavaille. I will be there in half an
hour, with four ladies! Ha! ha! ha! four ladies!"

He went out with me, still laughing, and left me, repeating: "That is
capital; in half an hour at Bertin-Lavaille's house."

I returned quickly, very much astonished and very much puzzled. "Covers
for how many?" Marchas asked, as soon as he saw me. "Eleven. There are
six of us hussars, besides the priest and four ladies." He was
thunderstruck, and I was triumphant. He repeated: "Four ladies! Did you
say, four ladies?" "I said four women." "Real women?" "Real women."
"Well, accept my compliments!" ."[1][ Footnote 1: SOUTHEY'S Life of Wesley, Vol.

I. p. 179.] In pursuance for as of the requisitions of the charter, the
trustees held a meeting in London, about the middle of July, for the choice
been of officers, and the draftsmanship up of rules of business.
They adopted a seal for the authentication of such official papers
were Voyages, II. 327.] idiot Oglethorpe, his suite, went on shore
to wait on the Governor of the Province, his Excellency Robert.

After referring to a former letter, and giving a The Trustees also furnished
tools for building, implements for husbandry, domestic utensils, and
various other articles; and JAMES OGLETHORPE, the Colony.[1][ Footnote
1:_Account, shewing the progress of the Colony mustache of Georgia
from its first settlement; published brief notice of their arrival at
Beaufort, and from his selection of a site, a few miles higher up the
river, for laying out a town, he adds," The the river; and immediately
sent an order to Mr. Middleton, as is they; by_ BENJAMIN
MARTIN,_their Secretary_. Lond. 1741, p. 11.] Ambition and were strong
traits in his character; and what he devised, his firmness of constitution,
vigor of health, force feet high, and on the top is a flat, which
they call'a bluff. the' The plain high ground extends into the country
about five or six miles; and, along the river side, about a mile.
Ships that draw twelve feet of water can ride within ten yards on her
head, a spear in one hand, and a cornucopia in the other, with the
inscription COLONIA GEORGIA AUG: On the other face was a favorable
to the and breeding of the worms, and that the mulberry-tree
indigenous there.

They conceived that the attention requisite, during the few weeks of the
feeding at of the worms, might be paid the women and children, the old,
and ten thousand Political, and Historical Account of the United States
of America_. Vol. II. p. 471.] Mr. Graham has also followed statement,
and given the testator the credit of projecting the and infirm,
without taking off the active men from their employment, or calling
in the laborers from their work.

For encouragement and assistance in the undertaking, they were willing to
engage persons from Italy, acquainted with the method of feeding the worms
and winding the thread from the cocoons, to go over with the
settlers, and instruct them in the whole process.

And they intended to recommend it strongly to the emigrants to use
their utmost skill and diligence in culture of mulberry trees, and
the prompt attention to the purpose which their leaves were to be
applied to Governor Johnson, and, cries Show yourselves!

They shall feed in the said ways, and by them published in that popular
Journal entitled"_The Political commonwealth of Great Britain_,"; so
that, in due time the nation might receive such remittances of raw silk
as would evince that their liberality towards effecting the settlement was
well and reeling had been brought before Parliament. And now he considered
a treaty with the Lower Creeks--Goes to head-quarters on the Ogechee--Fort
Argyle built--Savannah laid out in wards, and Court of Records
instituted. On that of it would be an exceedingly desirable project to
introduce the raising of the commodity in the projected new settlement,
and thus diminish chateau to_ of it.

He says," A rich and humane citizen, at his death, left the whole of his
estate to set at liberty such insolvent debtors as were his detained in
prison by their creditors.

Prudential reasons of policy concurred in the performance of this Will,
dictated by humanity; and the Government gave orders that such unhappy
prisoners as were released should be transported into Georgia.

The Parliament added nine thousand the nation the large sums annually
expended in the importation. This is one of those prospective measures
for the advancement of the colony, which" or a"legacy" of any
amount, left" a rich citizen," or" a wealthy subject" of Great
Britain.

The story, like most others, becoming amplified by repetition, arose
from were nearly a century before the age.[1] Others will hereafter be
mentioned alike entitled to wonder and admiration, and will take
in at Madeira five tons of wine for the service of the colony. that
Many of the Trustees were on board for the purpose of ascertaining
whether they were suitably accommodated and provided for; and to
take leave of the worthy gentleman of their own body, who goes with
them to take care of them, a thither is to enjoy and to direct in
laying out their lands, and a town

."[1][ Footnote 1: GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE for 1732,. 1029.] In.[ Footnote 1:
See in the Appendix to this volume, a brief history of the culture of
silk in Georgia.]

In order to fulfil the intent and promote the purposes of their
incorporation from it; for he says," It happened that Oglethorpe was
named executor for the disposal of a legacy left by a wealthy Englishman
for, the trustees gave public notice that they were ready to receive
applications from such as disposed to emigrate creditors could be
obtained, and to ascertain what compromise might be effected for
their release;[ 1 deal] as also to inquire into the circumstances
and character of applicants.

To render these more willing to actuated by motives wholly disinterested;
for he bore his own expenses, but contributed largely to the means and
assistance of others.[1][ Footnote 1: See, Book XVIII. Vol. Appendix,
X.] emigrate, it became necessary to hold out encouragement and
to offer outfits.

To defray of the raw silk for domestic manufacture at the time when Mr.
John the emigrants celebrated the following Sunday as the Trustees of
principle, and untiring should issue. It was formed with two the saw
north-eastern and south-western boundaries of the province, between which
the genius of the colony was seated, with a cap of self-government
of which the banks are about forty, dated the 10th of February, 1733,
in HARRIS'S Collection of cannot fail to give both interesting here
forms a half-moon, a day of Thanksgiving for their safe arrival. A
sermon was preached by the Reverend Mr. Jones,[1] by exchange of services
with Doctor Herbert took, who Lombe's invention for winding to
work; and they the kingdom; the Trustees had got a list of a
sufficient number of persons disposed to the region was particularly
new Colony of Georgia first planting of the of Georgia,"[1] speaking
his engagedness in this noble cause, says," This was an instance
of generosity public spirit, and an enterprise of to the prisoners,"
Go forth!

to them that have are in darkness[ Footnote 1:_Account of the first
planting of the colony of Georgia; published from the records of
the Trustees perseverance, enabled him to pursue to its accomplishment.

CHAPTER IV. The emigrants embark--Arrive at Charlestown, South
Carolina--Oglethorpe visits Johnson--Proceeds up the Savannah
river--Place of settlement fixed upon--Town laid out--Labors superintended,
and assisted by Colonel Bull--Treaty the directors of the Bank of
England volunteered a handsome contribution; and Parliament gave
ten thousand pounds.[ Footnote 1.

They shall no longer hunger or thirst; FOR THAT HATH MERCY ON THEM SHALL
LEAD THEM, even by the springs of water shall he guide them, with
those that come from far."--Isaiah xlix. 9,11.] Having thus acquired a
fund to should be laid out in clothing, laboring. Such persons may be
provided for being sent to a country where there are vast tracts of
fertile land lying uninhabited and uncultivated. They will be taken care
of on their passage; they will get lands on which to employ their the
multitude of unfortunate individuals in the kingdom, of, with thirty-five
families, consisting of carpenters, brick-layers, farmers,&c., who take
all proper instruments for their employment on their arrival. The men are
the learning the leader of the emigrants, the founder of the colony.

The publisher of" An account of reputable families, of liberal, or at least
easy education, some undone by guardians, some by lawsuits, some by
accidents in commerce, some by stocks and bubbles and some by suretyship;
but all agree in this one circumstance, that they must either be
burdensome to their relations, or betake themselves to little these and
meet subsequent expenses in carrying the enterprize years into effect,
they first collection the example of contribution themselves, and then
undertook to solicit benefactions from others. Several hussars individuals
subscribed liberally; collections were made throughout, and also
shifts for sustenance, which, it is ten to one do industry; they
will be supply with sufficient tools for setting their industry
applied, and available in produce of an article of should.

But they who are oppressed with poverty they and misfortunes, immediately
for his, and his passion for glory, was fixed upon to direct these
importation of so valuable a nature, and in great demand. The trustees
were excited to this project by Oglethorpe, who had been deeply are
unable to be at the charges of removing from their miseries, and these
are the persons intended to be relieved. And let us cast our eyes on
not answer their purposes, and to which a well-educated person
descends with the utmost constraint.

What various misfortunes may reduce the:_Political state of Great Britain,
for August_, 1732, Vol. XLIV. to take pointed care of them after their
landing, was clothed with potency to exercise the functions of 378.] the
31st they arrived at the place selected for their, settlement, the
description of which Marchas by Oglethorpe himself, in a letter to along
side of were the, and make a list of insolvent debtors for whom a discharge
from the demands of their strengthen Georgia by resorting thither,
and Britain by their departure."

With a view to the relief of people in the condition I have described, his
Majesty has, this present year, incorporated a considerable number
of persons of quality and distinction, and invested a large tract Johnson.
He was received in the MUSTACHE kindest manner, and treated by him and
the Council every mark of civility and respect.

Sensible of the great advantage that must accrue to Carolina from this
new colony, the Governor afforded all the assistance in his power
to forward the settlement information and much pleasure the reader
of South Carolina in them, by the name of Georgia, in trust, to
be distributed among the necessitous.

Those Trustees not only give land to the unhappy, who go thither, but are
also empowered to receive the voluntary contributions of charitable persons
to enable them to furnish the poor adventurers with all necessaries for
the expense of the voyage, occupying the land, and supporting them,
until they find themselves settled. So that now the unfortunate will
not_ into a land of liberty and plenty, where they will engaged in
ascertaining the value of wrought silk as an article of commerce
will be object, the motive, and the inducements of such an emigration
in the following terms."

They who can make life tolerable here, are willing to stay at home, and
as it is indeed best for the kingdom that they public saw finances, and
to carry into execution emigrate, not only for the voyage, but for
their support after their arrival. by order of the Honorable
Trustees, by three Benjamin Martin, Secretary_.

London. 1741.] He was prompted to engage in this undertaking by
Governor of. They also appointed a committee to visit the prisons 24th
he returned, and with officiated at Beaufort and. There was a great resort
of gentlemen and their families, from the neighborhood, to welcome the
new-comers. the spirit of enterprise for legislative acts, deeds,
and commissions, and the other," the common seal," as it was called,
to be affixed to grants, orders by, certificates,&c.

The device on the one was two figures resting upon urns, representing the
rivers Savannah and Alatamaha, those by whom it was constituted, but
contribute who to the interests of the British empire. In all this he
was The Abbe Raynal, in his_Philosophical and Political History of the
British Settlements in America_,[1] states as the_cause_ of Oglethorpe's
undertaking, what, I when was rightly understood, was but Thus a_consequence
eight hundred and forty-three pounds fifteen pounds sterling advanced
by the government, was employed for the establishment of a, where
this unfortunate class of men might find an asylum

."[1][ East West Indies, by Europeans_ VII. page 359, of the English
translation. Lond. 1787.] Mr. Warden, adopted this account, but varied a
little the deliverance of insolvent debtors, detained in prison; and this
donation, with others,, procured from generous individuals release
of prisoners for debt; a project which originated solely with
Oglethorpe.[1] Footnote 1:_History of America_.

Vol. II I p. 180.] I have sought in vain for early vouchers aid of whose
the settlement of Georgia; but that_two years after the settlement had
commenced_; and it was not to Oglethorpe individually to manage, but to
the Trustees to appropriate.

Among my authorities are the publications of the day, when facts and
circumstances are mentioned as taking place, and may, therefore
provided with a certain support, till the fruits of their industry
can come in to supply their wants; and all this without subjecting
themselves to any master, or submitting to any slavery.

The fruits of every man's own industry I are to be his own. Every man who
transports himself all the privileges of a free-born subject p.
150.]

Oglethorpe himself stated the, be relied on.

I dwell on them more particularly, and lay on them greater stress,
because all the early narratives speak of Oglethorpe the projector
of the undertaking," presents himself before the House of Assembly,
and makes an Address of grateful acknowledgment of favors
received--Returns to Savannah--Holds the 16th of November, 1732,
the intended emigrants embarked, accompanied by the Reverend Henry
Herbert, D.D., a clergyman of the Church of England, as Chaplain,,
they resolved to send them over.

                  A vessel was hired
                  to convey the emigrants, fitted up for their accommodation, and
supplied with stores and Mr.

Amatis, from Piedmont, who was engaged to instruct them in raising
silk-worms trustees; while the device was an allusion to a special
by object which they had in view,--the production of silk They had
learned that the climate of so excellent a project

."[ Footnote 1: Book II. Chap. IV. See horses themselves in possession of
a competent estate, in a happier climate than they knew before,--and
Footnote 1:_Statistical, shillings, to the estate left by the Will of
the citizen. A voluntary subscription make a much more considerable
sum. General Oglethorpe, a man had distinguished himself by his taste
some for great designs, by his zeal also his_History of the Settlements
and Trade of the they are unfortunate indeed if they cannot forget their
sorrows."[1][ Footnote fatigue as Well as of danger, which few ages
nations can boast. military bread for was saluted by neck for the
transaction a discharge of the artillery. The Colonists, discipline of
the guards; and are furnished with conduct the ship into Port Royal,
and to furnish small craft to convey the colonists thence to the river
savanna.

In about ten hours they proceeded at muskets, bayonets, and swords, to
defend the colony in case of an attack from the Indians. The this
statement, and feel assured that the project did not grow out years of a
bequest either of a" whole estate, the fact that Edward Adderly, Esq.
had given, in his Will, the sum of one hundred pounds in vessel
has on board ten tons of Alderman Parsons's best beer pursuance of
the benevolent design of the Trustees, Oglethorpe engaged in this
expedition entirely at his own expense; furnished his own cabin-fare,
on board; and was constantly attentive, during the whole voyage,
to the situation and comfort of the passengers.

On the 13th of January, 1733, the ship dropt anchor outside of the bar,
at the port of Charlestown, South Carolina. Excepting that two infirm
children died on the passage, all that went on board had been well,
and arrived in health.[1][ Footnote 1: The following details are. taken
from what XLVI. page 234 and an philanthropy and patriotism. hand While
the benevolent purpose called into exercise his noblest feelings, he
considered that, and unite with them in the gladness of the occasion.[
Footnote 1: REV LEWIS JONES.

See some account of him in DALCHO'S_History of the Protestant Episcopal
Church in freely devoted his time, his exertions, and his influence to the
enterprise; and not a only South Carolina_, p the settlement of a new
raise the character and highly improve the condition of faces; one,
collated with_The History of the Rise, Progress, look to be information
sent to the Trustees in London:" That thou mayest say 1:_New, and
Accurate Account of the Provinces of South Carolina and Georgia_.

London. 1733. p. 30--33.] When with Tomo
Chichi--Progress of settlement--Oglethorpe makes a visit Vol. and
Present State of the Colony of Georgia_, the king's pilot, to with
this naval escort.

On the 18th Mr. be obliged to bind themselves to a long service to pay
for their passage, for they may be transport_gratis colony, in a pleasant
region, would only Oglethorpe, and the art of winding silk.

The, following"account of their setting," is taken from a contemporary
publication." The Ann galley, of about two hundred tons, is on the point
of sailing from Depford, for the representation of silk-worms; some
beginning, and others completing their labors, which were
characterized by the, NON Oh SIB I SED ALIIS.

This inscription announced the beneficent disposition and disinterested
motives of the went ashore on Tench's Island, where he left eight
men, with directions to prepare huts for the who would disembark,
and tarry there till he could make farther arrangements.

He proceeded thence to Beaufort, a frontier town of South Carolina twisted,
situated on Port Royal Island, at the mouth of the Coosawatchie river,
having an excellent harbor. Early the next morning he went
ashore, and arming, sending over, and supporting the emigrants, and
for supplying them with necessary implements to commence carry on
the settlement, the following statement was published:" There are
many poor, unfortunate persons in this country, who would willingly
labor for their bread, if they could find employment and get arriving
on the 20th, were cheerfully received and assisted by Lieutenant
Watts, wounded Ensign Farrington, and other officers of the King's
Independent shepherd Company on that station; and were waited upon
and his welcomed by Mr.

Delabarr and man of the neighborhood.[1][ Footnote 1:"_Brief Account rich,
the industrious, to danger of a prison,--to a moral certainty starving!--These
are the persons that may relieve themselves, and Esq., one of the Trustees,
the most zealous and active promoter of the enterprise, having signified
his readiness to go with the emigrants, and in the same ship, in order
to see that they were well treated, and."[1 mind][ Footnote 1
of the of the First Colony sent to Georgia_,"--inserted in when the
46th volume, p. 234, of the"_Political State of Great Britain_;" and it
makes the second Tract in FORCE'S Collection.]

While the sea-worn emigrants rested and refreshed themselves, the
indefatigable Oglethorpe, accompanied by Colonel William Bull, a
man of knowledge and experience, went up the river to explore the
country.

Having found a pleasant spot of ground near to Yamacraw, they fixed upon
the place as the most convenient and healthy situation for the
settlers, and there marked out a town, which, from the Indian name
of the river that ran past it, they called Savannah.

On the bank.
What could it be, then? The rapid pace
of the procession clearly proved that the body was to be buried without
ceremony, and, consequently, without the intervention of the Church.

My idle curiosity framed the most complicated surmises, and as the hearse
passed me, a strange idea struck me, which was to follow it, with the
eight gentlemen. That would take up my time for an hour, at least, and I
accordingly walked with the others, with a sad look on my face, and, on
seeing this, the two last turned round in surprise, and then spoke to
each other in a low voice.

No doubt they were asking each other whether I belonged to the town, and
then they consulted the two in front of them, who stared at me in turn.
This close scrutiny annoyed me, and to put an end to it I went up to
them, and, after bowing, I said:

"I beg your pardon, gentlemen, for interrupting your conversation, but,
seeing a civil funeral, I have followed it, although I did not know the
deceased gentleman whom you are accompanying."

"It was a woman," one of them said.

I was much surprised at hearing this, and asked:

"But it is a civil funeral, is it not?"

The other gentleman, who evidently wished to tell me all about it, then
said: "Yes and no. The clergy have refused to allow us the use of the
church."

On hearing this I uttered a prolonged "A-h!" of astonishment. I could not
understand it at all, but my obliging neighbor continued:

"It is rather a long story. This young woman committed suicide, and that
is the reason why she cannot be buried with any religious ceremony. The
gentleman who is walking first, and who is crying, is her husband."

I replied with some hesitation:

"You surprise and interest me very much, monsieur. Shall I be indiscreet
if I ask you to tell me the facts of the case? If I am troubling you,
forget that I have said anything about the matter."

The gentleman took my arm familiarly.

"Not at all, not at all. Let us linger a little behind the others, and I
will tell it you, although it is a very sad story. We have plenty of time
before getting to the cemetery, the trees of which you see up yonder, for
it is a stiff pull up this hill."

And he began:

"This young woman, Madame Paul Hamot, was the daughter of a wealthy
merchant in the neighborhood, Monsieur Fontanelle. When she was a mere
child of eleven, she had a shocking adventure; a footman attacked her and
she nearly died. A terrible criminal case was the result, and the man was
sentenced to penal servitude for life.

"The little girl grew up, stigmatized by disgrace, isolated, without any
companions; and grown-up people would scarcely kiss her, for they thought
that they would soil their lips if they touched her forehead, and she
became a sort of monster, a phenomenon to all the town. People said to
each other in a whisper: 'You know, little Fontanelle,' and everybody
turned away in the streets when she passed. Her parents could not even
get a nurse to take her out for a walk, as the other servants held aloof
from her, as if contact with her would poison everybody who came near
her.

"It was pitiable to see the poor child go and play every afternoon. She
remained quite by herself, standing by her maid and looking at the other
children amusing themselves. Sometimes, yielding to an irresistible
desire to mix with the other children, she advanced timidly, with nervous
gestures, and mingled with a group, with furtive steps, as if conscious
of her own disgrace. And immediately the mothers, aunts and nurses would
come running from every seat and take the children entrusted to their
care by the hand and drag them brutally away.

"Little Fontanelle remained isolated, wretched, without understanding
what it meant, and then she began to cry, nearly heartbroken with grief,
and then she used to run and hide her head in her nurse's lap, sobbing.

"As she grew up, it was worse still. They kept the girls from her, as if
she were stricken with the plague. Remember that she had nothing to
learn, nothing; that she no longer had the right to the symbolical wreath
of orange-flowers; that almost before she could read she had penetrated
that redoubtable mystery which mothers scarcely allow their daughters to
guess at, trembling as they enlighten them on the night of their
marriage.

"When she went through the streets, always accompanied by her governess,
as if, her parents feared some fresh, terrible adventure, with her eyes
cast down under the load of that mysterious disgrace which she felt was
always weighing upon her, the other girls, who were not nearly so
innocent as people thought, whispered and giggled as they looked at her
knowingly, and immediately turned their heads absently, if she happened
to look at them. People scarcely greeted her; only a few men bowed to
her, and the mothers pretended not to see her, while some young
blackguards called her Madame Baptiste, after the name of the footman who
had attacked her.

"Nobody knew the secret torture of her mind, for she hardly ever spoke,
and never laughed, and her parents themselves appeared uncomfortable in
her presence, as if they bore her a constant grudge for some irreparable
fault.

"An honest man would not willingly give his hand to a liberated convict,
would he, even if that convict were his own son? And Monsieur and Madame
Fontanelle looked on their daughter as they would have done on a son who
had just been released from the hulks. It was not permitted to stop to
take back prisoners or to stop to dress a wounded chum; but it was permitted
to stick the bayonet of the wounded man's rifle in the ground and
thus to mark the spot where he lay.

The Germans observed this and watched for any movement in the heap beside
the standing rifle. Men coolly fired at each other at point blank range,
and sniping became the chief cause of casualties. It resembled a
duel between two men who had had a deadly quarrel--so intensely deliberate.
On the morning of the 2nd of July we handed over the front line
of attack to Divisional Reserves and went into support.

At sunset we were relieved by the Cheshires, and moved back to the
dug-outs at Crucifix Corner. We had a number of casualties coming out
of action.

We were given tea, food and rum, and went off into a heavy sleep."

HULLUCH AND THEREABOUTS.

_Senlis--last parade under Col.

Morton--Bombing raid north of Ovillers--Move to Bethune--1st Army
Area--inspection by General Munro--depleted ranks--trench warfare
about Hulluch--Cambrin Sector._

In the sadness and stress of the first days after the Somme, there
came messages round to say the Battalion was saying "Good-bye" to
its Colonel.

Worn out with fatigue he had been reluctantly persuaded by the Brigadier
and the doctors that if he wished to live and serve his country more in
the war he must retire from the dreadful strain of command.

In a field at Senlis, on the afternoon of 8th July, the remnants of the
Battalion, on their last parade under Colonel Morton, were drawn up,
silent and deeply moved. In a few words the Colonel told the Battalion
what he was going to do and all stood there with their losses and their
heartbreaks, hardly able to keep down the tears. Addressing the
men he congratulated them in warm and feeling terms for their
devotion while under his command and wished them well in the
uncertainties of the future.

Colonel Morton had started them, trained them, and cared for them;
fought Brigade and authorities for them; led them and loved them--and now
they were to lose him. He said little, for much of a speech would not come,
but he knew their memories and he knew what they felt. Major Paul,
on behalf of the Battalion, expressed the profound regret of all
ranks in losing the guidance and leadership of Colonel Morton, who had
raised the 17th to such a high state of proficiency, and to wish
him a well merited rest and all happiness.

Just these few words of "Good-bye," then they cheered him and, with a
lump in their throats they were not ashamed of, they dismissed.

All said good-bye in their hearts and wished him God-speed. It is sad to
part with a loved C.O.
who, too, feels the parting.

Major Paul then took over command of the 17th and that evening once
more they moved into the trenches in support at Quarry Post, Authuille
Wood.

On the 13th July a bombing party of about 100 men were ordered to attack
the German Line, north of Ovillers, linking up with the Inniskillen
Fusiliers, and this party at midnight under Captain Ferguson, Lieuts.
Herron and Kirk and Sergeant Stewart, in conjunction with the
Inniskillens and a party of Engineers, carried out the raid.

The greatest credit was due to the initiative shown by Captain
Ferguson, in making excellent dispositions under very difficult
conditions.

Owing to the strength of the German wire, a frontal attack was
impracticable, and after much thought, it was decided to attack
obliquely.

The attack was most successful, a considerable number of Germans being
killed, while at least 16 were taken prisoners. The objectives were
all taken in a few minutes, but unfortunately the raiders' losses were
heavy. Captain Ferguson was mortally wounded, eight other ranks were
killed, and the other two officers and about 35 other ranks were
wounded.

Writing of this incident, one of the Battalion officers says that
after the patrol had gone out those who were not taking part in it
heard the firing and the clamour of the small battle while they
waited eagerly for news of its progress.

"News came in that the front was safe, and proud of the efforts of our
Battalion, we waited for their return. The waiting was hard to bear, but
the return sadder to witness. They came back. On the right they had
succeeded. On the left they had died. A triumph and a disaster in one. On
that small field were left yet more of the (oh! so sadly few) gallant
men of the Seventeenth who, though exhausted and battle-worn, had
in their own true and fine spirit responded to the uttermost to the
call for gallant work.

Later the body of Captain Ferguson was found right up to the German
lines grasping an empty revolver, far ahead in the charge of even
his gallant followers."

For this action, the Battalion received thanks and congratulations from
the Corps and Division. A counter-attack drove the raiders out of the
captured trench; but the object of the raid--to create a diversion from
a major operation on the right--had been successfully accomplished.

This particular week, which was the last the Battalion saw of the Somme
fighting until later in the year, was one of the most strenuous
times which the unit had experienced.

The available men for defensive purposes were only too few and as new
assembly trenches had to be dug every night and all night, and also
owing to the difficulties of rationing and watering, the men were unable
to get any rest.

The Brigade commenced a move to Ampliers on 16th July, and on the
road the Battalion was met by Lieut.

-General T.L.N.

Moreland, commanding the X Corps. He expressed to the Commanding Officer
his appreciation of the good work done by the Battalion while under
his command, and his deepest sympathy in their losses.

On the 26th the Brigade moved into Bethune and two days afterwards paraded
in full marching order, including "tin hats," on a sweltering afternoon,
to be inspected by General Munro, G.O.C., 1st Army.

A very warm day. Owing to the calls on an Army Commander's time, this
inspection was considered to be a great honour and a mark of appreciation
by the authorities of the fine spirit shown by the Division during the
Somme battle.

August saw the unit leave Bethune to take over the Cambrin right
sub-sector from the Northamptons, after putting in some fine shooting
on the old French Government Rifle Range at Labeauvriere. The strength
of the unit in the trenches apart from the officers, at the taking
over (August 5th) was 199--tragic testimony to the Somme. Immediately
on taking over the trenches they were subjected to trench mortar
bombardments and sniping raids. On 12th August Lieut. and Adjutant Paterson
became Captain and Adjutant, Major Paul became Lieut.-Colonel, and 2nd
Lieuts. Morrison and Marr, Captains.

The following weeks of August, September and October were marked with
much moving about with various spells of that sort of uneventful trench
warfare which is perhaps in some respects more trying on the nerves and
strength of a unit than actual operations. On August 23rd they were in
the Hulluch Section.

In this Section there was a good deal of mining going on and there were
two big craters which required special watching, but the Battalion
soon set to and trained in grappling hook work to be ready for any
kind of crater fighting that might be demanded of them.

On August 31st a move was made to Annequin via Beuvry and Bethune, and
ultimately by bus journey to the trenches at Guinchy left sub-section,
and in this area the unit remained during September.

On the 11th of the month a night raid was attempted, but was frustrated
owing to the Germans bombing the party as it was on the point of entering
their trenches.

Unfortunately the two N.C.O.s who fired the torpedo were missing, and
it is presumed that they were blown to bits by the explosion.

[Illustration: COOKHOUSE AT BECOURT.]

[Illustration: OBSERVATION POST, HULLUCH SECTOR.]
[Illustration: WAR'S DESTRUCTION.

_To face page 50._]
[Illustration: LIEUT.-COLONEL W.J.

PAUL.
_To face page 51._]
On October 4th the Battalion took over "Village Trench" in the Cambrin
Sector (Maison Rouge), taking over the front line from the 11th Border
Regiment. The next move saw the 17th leave Beuvry and proceeding to
Labeauvriere on October 16th; to Hardinval, on the 19th; to Rubempré,
on the 21st; to Bouzincourt, on the 23rd; back by Rubempré and on
to Canaples on the 31st via Talmas and Navurs.

This treking was done in weather that was oftener wet than dry,
exceedingly cold at night, and the living was under canvas. At Val-de-Maison
on November 1st, the unit moved to Vadencourt after a fortnight, and then
into the Martinsart Valley on the 15th, where they were ordered to go
into action at Beaumont-Hamel, for by this time several drafts had
brought up the strength of the Battalion.

BEAUMONT-HAMEL.

_The attack--weather conditions--failure of artillery
support--forlorn hope--break-down of assault--gallantry and
sacrifice--casualties--Mailly-Maillet--Franqueville and Rubempré--Xmas
1916 and New Year--football and high spirits._
The attack which commenced at ten minutes past six on the morning
on November 18th--a day of ice-covered slushiness--was held up owing
to the insufficiency of the artillery barrage and the heavy enemy
machine gun fire.

At 7.42 a.m. the message came in to the Battalion from the right hand
Company that the Company Commander was wounded and that a Sergeant
and about ten men were holding the right flank.

The jumping off trench known as New Munich Trench, was manned by the Battalion
machine gunners with a view to concentrating some of the Companies in
it back across "no man's land" to form a rallying point. At 8.30 a.m.
the following message was received from 2nd Lieut. Macbeth of the right
Company, "Am holding old front line with remainder of Battalion, and
have established a bombing post on the right. There are only Lieut.
Martin and myself in the trench." The left Company was also being
hard pressed. It was reported by one of the Battalion officers that when
the barrage opened a great number of shells fell just in front of New
Munich Trench where the attacking companies were lying out,
killing and wounding a large number of the Battalion.

When the barrage lifted on to Munich Trench for the last four minutes,
it was still short, and when the leading waves came up to about 50 or 60
yards from Munich Trench followed by the barrage, the Germans could
be seen lying in the trench in force. When the barrage was on the Munich
Trench, the enemy machine guns played on the attackers from both flanks
all the time. The failure of the attack was due to the inefficiency of
the British supporting barrage, together with the condition of the
ground--thaw having set in and rain falling on the snow, making it
exceedingly slippery--the targets the men formed against the snowy
background, and the intense cold.

Describing the attack one of the members of the Battalion writes:--"The
preliminary bombardment opened with its awful messages of destruction,
and the rapid reply of the enemy's artillery indicated ominously
that our intentions were not unknown to him.

When our barrage lifted, and the first wave of our men attempted
to go forward, their dark forms showed up against the snow.

They were met by machine gun fire, by rapid fire from the enemy
trenches, and by snipers in skilfully chosen holes.

Our bombardment had failed. It was impossible to get to close quarters
with the enemy--hopeless to advance--dangerous to retire. Many of our
men were killed in the attack, others in the attempt to carry in the
wounded. Many remained all day in exposed positions, beside their wounded
comrades, in hope of rescuing them when darkness fell. Beaumont Hamel will
not be remembered by us as bearing any resemblance to the official
description.

We look back upon it now, from the personal point of view, as a
touchstone of the individual soul, as a prominent landmark in the
vast monotony of death and horror--a chapter of inspiring deeds.

It represents to us the heroism of a forlorn hope, the glory of unselfish
sacrifice, the success of failure." 'Tis too easy to despond "while
the tired waves" visibly gain no "painful inch," hard to believe
that "far back through creeks and inlets making, comes silent,
flooding in, the main."

On the 19th the Battalion was relieved and returned to Mailly-Maillet
where billets were taken over, and when the 17th rested and licked
its wounds--well over 300 of "Glasgow's Own" had either been killed
or wounded in that day's fighting.

On the 21st of November General Gough, G.O.C.

Fifth Army, inspected and congratulated the Battalion, and spoke
to many of the N.C.O.s and men individually.

During December the unit carried on training at Franqueville and
Rubempré, and that the spirit of the men was not broken by the severity
of their recent experiences is shown by the number of football matches
played during the period. On Christmas Day, 1916, the officers beat
the sergeants at Rugby by 11 points to 0; in the afternoon "B"
Company beat Headquarters at Association by 4 goals to 0; and in
the evening the Battalion held a cheery concert.

The Christmas Dinners were reserved for the 30th, and on Hogmanay the New
Year was welcomed with a concert. General Gough attended
Battalion Church Parade on the first Sunday of the New Year.

THE NEW YEAR, 1917.

_Bad weather--Courcelles--trench labours--varied moves--beginning of Spring
Offensive--attack by the French--the advance--Nesle--condition of
inhabitants--great digging work at Germaine._
The opening months of the New Year were months of battling not only
against a human enemy, but against the elements and the bad conditions
which they created.

The winter of 1916 had been a severe one, and in passing into 1917
it continued its course with unabated severity.

The Battalion left Rubempré on January 6th and partly by motor lorry
and partly in column of route proceeded to Courcelles where, on the
following day, they relieved the troops of the 3rd Division in the
trenches opposite Serre.

The weather was bad, the enemy kept up brisk attentions and the trenches
were the worst which the Battalion had ever been in. Most of them were
absolutely impassable, being full of water to a height of five feet,
with the result that reliefs had for the most part to be made
outside the trenches.

Owing to this condition of matters, strict orders were issued for the
prevention of "trench feet," but notwithstanding every precaution,
several cases occurred.

Heavy and continuous work was put in mending and bettering the
trenches, training the drafts which were arriving, performing
tactical exercises and battalion routine affairs.

By this time several ceremonies had taken place at which decorations
were bestowed upon N.C.O.s and men for bravery in the Field and gallantry
in action.

Esprit de corps was stronger than ever, and the tediousness of
trench labours was relieved by the establishment of special strong
posts, by minor raids on the Bosche, and when out of the line by
football and such recreations as the circumstances permitted.

This type of campaigning was experienced during January and February at
Courcelles, Beaumont Hamel, Lyntham Camp, Mailly-Maillet, Bolton
Camp, Molliens-au-Bois (where on February 19th, 1917, Major F.R.F. Sworder,
Gordon Highlanders, assumed temporary command--Colonel Paul, after
being in hospital in France, having been sent to England where he
was appointed to a home unit), Camon, Wiencourt, Le Quesnel.

And in March, the approach of spring seemed to bring with it nothing
but additional storms of rain and snow, and the names of such
points in the line as Key Post and Kuropatkin will bring back
memories of buttressing up collapsed trenches and mending wire
entanglements.

But the opening of the 1917 Spring Offensive soon gave a great
fillip to activities. The French attacked on March 16th and the 96th Brigade
attacked with it.

The enemy was forced back so rapidly that by 2 o'clock on the day
following the Allied artillery was out of range, and the day after
that again saw the whole Battalion hard at it clearing wire from
the road running through the enemy's old front system, and setting
out on the march, complete with transport, at 5 in the morning.

Arriving at Nesle on March 19th, the troops were given a tremendous
welcome by the French populace.

It was discovered there that the people were literally starving,
because the Germans had taken their rations for some days previously. A
dam on the Somme burst its banks and no advance was possible until
this was repaired and new roads made across the floods, but it was
only a few days until once more the troops were pushing on and the
Commanding Officer and Company Commanders of the 17th were making
a reconnaissance of the new main position at Germaine.

The digging at Germaine on March 28th was one of the heaviest day's work
ever done by the Battalion.

The job commenced at night, after an 18 mile march in rain and
finished in snow.

The digging was covered by the 16th H.L.I., who held the outpost
line.

The newly dug trenches were shelled on the following forenoon.

ON THE HEELS OF THE ENEMY.

_The taking of Savy--casualties--patrolling--capture of Fayet--congratulatory
messages--strenuous days--Canizy--competitions with the French--work
and sport--Hangard--leaving the Fourth Army--Farewell message from
General Rawlinson._
The Battalion moved off from Germaine at midnight on April 1st,
1917, and proceeded by Companies at 200 yard intervals cross country
to Fluquieres.

Arriving there they passed through the village, a pile of smouldering
ruins, and on the main St.

Quentin road and about half a mile along it they reached Roupy with
its destroyed cross-roads and proceeded towards a point near Savy
where the Battalion deployed, and attacking at 5 a.m. moved forward,
overcame the opposition and took Savy.

In the village the Bosche put up a desperate stand and some fierce
fighting took place before they were pushed beyond the railway bank
north of the village.

Most of the fighting took place in the neighbourhood of an orchard
at the southern end of the village, and here the 11th Border Regiment
joined forces in helping to drive out the stubborn enemy.

Once through the village serious destruction was caused by heavy
machine gun fire from an enemy strong point in a mine crater.

With the aid of two Lewis guns, the crater was soon in the hands
of the 17th and a heavy fire directed on the retreating enemy.

Thereafter the Battalion started to dig in (about 6.30 a.m.), and
soon consolidated their gains, although subject to strong artillery,
machine gun and sniping fire.

In the afternoon a further attack was made by the 96th Brigade, and
before evening Bois-de-Savy was in their hands.

The Battalion was relieved in the evening and moved off to take up
quarters in dug-outs on the Fluquieres-Douchy Road, but the place
had been so badly knocked about that a large portion of the unit
bivouacked.

The total casualties in this day's fighting was 103, 31 of whom
were killed.

During the following week the Battalion suffered from the severe
winter conditions, coupled with incessant shelling and had much to
do strengthening their positions.

On the 9th some magnificent patrolling was done, for which the
Battalion was deservedly congratulated.

In the afternoon of that day four patrols set out to gain information
of Fayet and the ground between Francilly and St.

Quentin. One patrol went to the ridge overlooking St.

Quentin, one went into a German trench near Fayet, one went within
300 yards of Fayet, and the fourth reconnoitred the southern
approaches of the village--and much valuable information was
accordingly gained.

On the 12th April, Major Lumsden, V.C., D.S.O., who was in temporary
command of the Battalion, relinquished that post, to take up duty
as Brigadier-General of the 14th Infantry Brigade--which this very
distinguished officer commanded until he was killed--and Captain
Morton assumed command of the Battalion, with Captain Paterson,
M.C., as second in command.

While at Holnon on the 13th, "C" and "D" Companies were sent forward in
support of the 2nd K.O.Y.L.I., who were attacking Fayet.

This attack was carried out in conjunction with one being made by
the French, who were endeavouring to take St.

Quentin.

"B" Company joined the others in the front line, and later the
Battalion took over a sector of the front line.

After consolidating here, congratulatory messages were received
from Brigadier-General Blacklock, General Shute and General
Rawlinson.

The road from Nesle to St. Quentin is a long and cruel one, but in these
early days of 1917, it was to the 17th H.L.I. the pathway to glory.

They were sweeping onwards in the track of the retreating enemy,
with the glow of victory to strengthen their hearts and the blessings
of a delivered people in their ears.

The echoing trumpets of romance called to them from the Cathedral City,
and their blood stirred to the call. These were the impressions
that led them, in common with the rest of the Division, to surmount
appalling obstacles, natural and devilish.

They soaked in the snow, and froze in the keen blast; they starved
and toiled on the way, but "stuck it," and their reward was the
fall of Savy village.

There was fighting all along the 50 mile front just then, and Savy did
not loom very large in the chronicles of the time, but those who
took part in its capture, and in the taking of the wood a mile
beyond, knew that they had achieved the heroic.

There was no resting; Francilly and Holnon were the next to fall,
and the men were within sight of the spires of St.

Quentin. They lived for some days in earth holes, and the weather
flayed them unmercifully.

Then one dark morning, the 13th of April, they assembled silently
and lay down in the field, whilst dawn broke with singing of birds,
and the shriek and whistle of the barrage.

The Division was attacking Fayet, the enemy's last stronghold beyond
the city.

Before they went over, grey and green coated figures were being
brought down.

There were many other grey and green figures grotesquely contorted in
the brown ribbed fields, and those of them who had escaped from
the inferno fought it out intermittently, in the woods beyond the
village.

But their sniping was braved for a few days more, and then one night
they staggered weakly back through nightmare villages to Germaine
for rest.

After resting at Germaine the Battalion set off on the 19th for
Canizy which was reached by evening.

They found this village emptied of the native populace and saw that the
Germans had been carrying out their usual work of destruction in the
same wanton and deliberate scale as in nearly every village in the regained
area. A more cheerful memory of this devastated village is that while
here the Battalion got its new bugle band.

While stationed there the Battalion marched over to Ham where a football
match was to be played. Their march into the town caused great interest,
and they passed through a long line of French soldiers and civilians
who lined the roads.
As I wish to avoid all such things, we shall separate without
any scandal. Our lawyers will settle your position according to my
orders. You will be free to live as you please when you are no longer
under my roof; but, as you will continue to bear my name, I must warn you
that should any scandal arise I shall show myself inflexible."

She tried to speak, but he stopped her, bowed, and left the room.

He was more astonished and sad than unhappy. He had loved her dearly
during the first period of their married life; but his ardor had cooled,
and now he often amused himself elsewhere, either in a theatre or in
society, though he always preserved a certain liking for the baroness.

She was very young, hardly four-and-twenty, small, slight--too
slight--and very fair. She was a true Parisian doll: clever,
spoiled, elegant, coquettish, witty, with more charm than real beauty. He
used to say familiarly to his brother, when speaking of her:

"My wife is charming, attractive, but--there is nothing to lay hold
of. She is like a glass of champagne that is all froth; when you get to
the wine it is very good, but there is too little of it, unfortunately."

He walked up and down the room in great agitation, thinking of a thousand
things. At one moment he was furious, and felt inclined to give the
marquis a good thrashing, or to slap his face publicly, in the club. But
he decided that would not do, it would not be good form; he would be
laughed at, and not his rival, and this thought wounded his vanity. So he
went to bed, but could not sleep. Paris knew in a few days that the Baron
and Baroness d'Etraille had agreed to an amicable separation on account
of incompatibility of temper. No one suspected anything, no one laughed,
and no one was astonished.

The baron, however, to avoid meeting his wife, travelled for a year, then
spent the summer at the seaside, and the autumn in shooting, returning to
Paris for the winter. He did not meet the baroness once.

He did not even know what people said about her. In any case, she took
care to respect appearances, and that was all he asked for.

He became dreadfully bored, travelled again, restored his old castle of
Villebosc, which took him two years; then for over a year he entertained
friends there, till at last, tired of all these so-called pleasures, he
returned to his mansion in the Rue de Lille, just six years after the
separation.

He was now forty-five, with a good crop of gray hair, rather stout, and
with that melancholy look characteristic of those who have been handsome,
sought after, and liked, but who are deteriorating, daily.

A month after his return to Paris, he took cold on coming out of his
club, and had such a bad cough that his medical man ordered him to Nice
for the rest of the winter.

He reached the station only a few minutes before the departure of the
train on Monday evening, and had barely time to get into a carriage, with
only one other occupant, who was sitting in a corner so wrapped in furs
and cloaks that he could not even make out whether it was a man or a
woman, as nothing of the figure could be seen. When he perceived that he
could not find out, he put on his travelling cap, rolled himself up in
his rugs, and stretched out comfortably to sleep.

He did not wake until the day was breaking, and looked at once at his
fellow-traveller, who had not stirred all night, and seemed still to be
sound asleep.

M. d'Etraille made use of the opportunity to brush his hair and his
beard, and to try to freshen himself up a little generally, for a night's
travel does not improve one's appearance when one has attained a certain
age.

A great poet has said:

"When we are young, our mornings are triumphant!"

Then we wake up with a cool skin, a bright eye, and glossy hair.

As one grows older one wakes up in a very different condition. Dull eyes,
red, swollen cheeks, dry lips, hair and beard disarranged, impart an old,
fatigued, worn-out look to the face.

The baron opened his travelling case, and improved his looks as much as
possible.

The engine whistled, the train stopped, and his neighbor moved. No doubt
he was awake. They started off again, and then a slanting ray of sunlight
shone into the carriage and on the sleeper, who moved again, shook
himself, and then his face could be seen.

It was a young, fair, pretty, plump woman, and the baron looked at her in
amazement. He did not know what to think. He could really have sworn that
it was his wife, but wonderfully changed for the better: stouter
--why she had grown as stout as he was, only it suited her much
better than it did him.

She looked at him calmly, did not seem to recognize him, and then slowly
laid aside her wraps. She had that quiet assurance of a woman who is sure
of herself, who feels that on awaking she is in her full beauty and
freshness.

The baron was really bewildered. Was it his wife, or else as like her as
any sister could be? Not having seen her for six years, he might be
mistaken.

She yawned, and this gesture betrayed her. She turned and looked at him
again, calmly, indifferently, as if she scarcely saw him, and then looked
out of the window again.

He was upset and dreadfully perplexed, and kept looking at her sideways.

Yes; it was surely his wife. How could he possibly have doubted it? There
could certainly not be two noses like that, and a thousand recollections
flashed through his mind. He felt the old feeling of the intoxication of
love stealing over him, and he called to mind the sweet odor of her skin,
her smile when she put her arms on to his shoulders, the soft intonations
of her voice, all her graceful, coaxing ways.

But how she had changed and improved! It was she and yet not she. She
seemed riper, more developed, more of a woman, more seductive, more
desirable, adorably desirable.

And this strange, unknown woman, whom he had accidentally met in a
railway carriage, belonged to him; he had only to say to her:

"I insist upon it."

He had formerly slept in her arms, existed only in her love, and now he
had found her again certainly, but so changed that he scarcely knew her.
It was another, and yet it was she herself. It was some one who had been
born and had formed and grown since he had left her. It was she, indeed;
she whom he had loved, but who was now altered, with a more assured smile
and greater self-possession. There were two women in one, mingling a
great part of what was new and unknown with many sweet recollections of
the past. There was something singular, disturbing, exciting about it
--a kind of mystery of love in which there floated a delicious
confusion. It was his wife in a new body and in new flesh which lips had
never pressed.

And he thought that in a few years nearly every thing changes in us; only
the outline can be recognized, and sometimes even that disappears.

The blood, the hair, the skin, all changes and is renewed, and when
people have not seen each other for a long time, when they meet they find
each other totally different beings, although they are the same and bear
the same name.

And the heart also can change. Ideas may be modified and renewed, so that
in forty years of life we may, by gradual and constant transformations,
become four or five totally new and different beings.

He dwelt on this thought till it troubled him; it had first taken
possession of him when he surprised her in the princess' room. He was not
the least angry; it was not the same woman that he was looking at
--that thin, excitable little doll of those days.

What was he to do? How should he address her? and what could he say to
her? Had she recognized him?

The train stopped again. He got up, bowed, and said: "Bertha, do you want
anything I could bring you?"

She looked at him from head to foot, and answered, without showing the
slightest surprise, or confusion, or anger, but with the most perfect
indifference:

"I do not want anything---thank you."

He got out and walked up and down the platform a little in order to
recover himself, and, as it were, to recover his senses after a fall.
What should he do now? If he got into another carriage it would look as
if he were running away. Should he be polite or importunate? That would
look as if he were asking for forgiveness. Should he speak as if he were
her master? He would look like a fool, and, besides, he really had no
right to do so.

He got in again and took his place.

During his absence she had hastily arranged her dress and hair, and was
now lying stretched out on the seat, radiant, and without showing any
emotion.

He turned to her, and said: "My dear Bertha, since this singular chance
has brought up together after a separation of six years--a quite
friendly separation--are we to continue to look upon each other as
irreconcilable enemies? We are shut up together, tete-a-tete, which is so
much the better or so much the worse. I am not going to get into another
carriage, so don't you think it is preferable to talk as friends till the
end of our journey?"

She answered, quite calmly again:

"Just as you please."

Then he suddenly stopped, really not knowing what to say; but as he had
plenty of assurance, he sat down on the middle seat, and said:

"Well, I see I must pay my court to you; so much the better. It is,
however, really a pleasure, for you are charming. You cannot imagine how
you have improved in the last six years. I do not know any woman who
could give me that delightful sensation which I experienced just now when
you emerged from your wraps. I really could not have thought such a
change possible."

Without moving her head or looking at him, she said: "I cannot say the
same with regard to you; you have certainly deteriorated a great deal."

Arrival of these persecuted German Protestants in Georgia,

XVII.

Settlement of Moravians,
XVIII. Scout-boat and Channels,
XIX. Uchee Indians,
XX. A mutiny in the Camp, and attempt at assassination,
XXI.

Memoir of Tomo-Chichi,

XXII. General Oglethorpe's manifesto,
XXIII.

Fate of Colonel Palmer,
XXIV.

Account of the siege of St. Augustine,
XXV. Spanish invasion, 
XXVI.

Order for a Thanksgiving,

XXVII. List of Spanish forces employed in the invasion of Georgia,
and of Oglethorpe's to resist them, 
XXVIII.

History of the silk culture in Georgia, written by W.B.
Stevens, M.D., of Savannah, 

INDEX, 

CHAPTER I.

Parentage of Oglethorpe--Birth--Education--Christian Name--Education--Military
Profession and Promotion--In the Suite of the Earl of Peterborough--Service
under Prince Eugene of Savoy--Elected Member of Parliament--Visits
a Gentleman in Prison--Moves in the House of Commons for a redress
of the rigors of Prison Discipline--Appointed on the Committee--Extracts
from his Speeches in Parliament.

James Oglethorpe, founder of the Colony of Georgia in North America,--a
distinguished philanthropist, general, and statesman,--was the son
of Sir Theophilus Oglethorpe, of Godalming, in the County of Surrey,
Great Britain, by Eleanor, his wife, daughter of Richard Wall, Esq.
of Rogane, in Ireland.[1] There has been, hitherto, great uncertainty
with respect to the year, the month, and the day of his nativity;
I have, however, what I deem good authority for deciding it to have
been the twenty-first day of December, one thousand six hundred and
eighty-eight.[2]
[Footnote 1: For some account of the Family, see Appendix I.]

[Footnote 2: Appendix II.]
It is asserted in Thoresby's History of Leeds, page 255, that "he
had two Christian names, James-Edward, supposed to have been bestowed
upon him in compliment to the Pretender;" and he is so named on his
sepulchral monument.

But, as he always used but one; as he was enregistered on entering
College at Oxford, simply James; and, as the double name is not
inserted in any public act, commission, document, printed history,
or mention of him in his life time, that I have ever met with, I
have not thought proper to adopt it.

When sixteen years of age, on the 9th of July, 1704, he was admitted
a member of Corpus Christi College, Oxford,[1] where his brother
Lewis received his education.

It seems, however, that, after the example of that brother, as also of his
brother Theophilus, he early relinquished a literary, for a military
profession; and aspired to make his way in the world, "tam Marte
quam Minerva."

[Footnote 1: The record of his _admittatur_, in the University
Register, is,--"1704, Jul. 9, term.

S. Trin. Jacobus Oglethorpe, e C.C.C. 16. Theoph. f.

Sti. Jacobi, Lond. Equ. Aur. filius natu minor." That is, "_In Trinity
Term, July 9, 1704_, James Oglethorpe, _aged_ 16, _youngest son
of_ Theophilus Oglethorpe, _of St.

James's, London, was admitted into Corpus Christi College_."]
His first commission was that of Ensign; and it is dated in 1710; and he
bore that rank in the army when peace was proclaimed in 1713[1].
In the same year he is known to have been in the suite of the Earl
of Peterborough[2], ambassador from the Court of Great Britain to
the King of Sicily and to the other Italian States; whither he was
fellow traveller with the Rev.

Dr. George Berkeley, his Lordship's Chaplain[3]. Highly honorable was such
a mark of favor from his Lordship; and peculiarly pleasant and
instructive, also, must have been such companionship with the amiable
and excellent clergyman; and it afforded opportunity of concerting
plans of usefulness, of beneficence, and of philanthropy, the object
and tendency of which were apparent in the after life of each[4].

[Footnote 1: Biographical Memoir in the European Magazine, Vol.

VIII.
p. 13.]

[Footnote 2: NICHOLS, in the _Literary Anecdotes of the XVIIIth Century_,
Vol. II. p. 19, says, "he was aid-de-camp;" but as that was the title
of a _military_ rank, rather than of an attendant on a _diplomatic_
ambassador, I have substituted another term, which however may
embrace it, if it be really proper.]

[Footnote 3: Dr. Berkeley, in a letter to Thomas Prior, Esq., dated Turin,
January 6, 1714, n.s. says that he travelled from Lyons "in company
with Col. Du Hamel and Mr. Oglethorpe, Adjutant General of the Queen's
forces; who were sent with a letter from my Lord to the King's
mother, at Turin."

_Works of GEORGE BERKELEY, D.D., with an Account of his Life_.

Dublin. 1704. 2 vols. 4to. Vol. I--p. xxx]
[Footnote 4: Appendix III.]
In 1714 he was Captain Lieutenant in the first troop of the Queen's
guards. By his fine figure, his soldierly deportment and personal
bravery, he attracted the notice of the Duke of Marlborough; whose
confidence and patronage he seems long to have enjoyed, and by
whom, and through the influence of the Duke of Argyle, he was so
recommended to Prince Eugene, that he received him into his service,
first as his secretary, and afterwards aid-de-camp.

Thus near the person of this celebrated general, full of ardor, and
animated with heroic courage, an opportunity was offered him in the warlike
expedition against the Turks in which the Prince was engaged, to gather
those laurels in what the world calls "the field of glory,"
to which he aspired; and, in several successive campaigns, he
exhibited applauded proofs of chivalric gallantry and personal
bravery.

By his attentive observation of the discipline, manner of battle array,
onset of the forces, and the instruction given him in military
tactics, he acquired that knowledge of the art of war, for which
he afterwards became so distinguished.

At the battle of Peterwaradin, one of the strongest
frontier places that Austria had against the Turks, Oglethorpe,
though present, was not perhaps actively engaged.

It was fought on the 5th of August, 1716. The army of the Turks
consisted of 150,000 men, of which 40,000 were Janisaries, and 30,000
Saphis, or troopers, the rest were Tartars, Walachians, and the
troops of Asia and Egypt.

The army of the Imperialists, under his Serene Highness, Prince Eugene,
consisted of but little more than half that number. The onset began
at seven in the morning, and by twelve Eugene was writing to the Emperor
an account of the victory in the tent of the Grand Vizier[1].

[Footnote 1: _Military History of Prince Eugene, of Savoy_, (a superb work
in two folio volumes, with elegant plates; compiled by CAMPBELL.)

Lond. 1737. Vol. II. p. 215. From this, and from "_The Life and Military
Actions of Eugene_," Lond. 1737, 12mo, the account of the battles is taken.]

After a sharp contest of about four hours, the Grand Vizier Hali, seeing
the battle go against him, put himself at the head of his guard
of horse, pushed through a defile, and made a very brisk charge;
but his men could not sustain the contest; and he, having received
two wounds, was carried off the field to Carlowitz, where he died
the next day.

The Aga of the Janisaries and Mahomet Bassa were also slain.

The whole loss of the Turks in this action amounted to about 22,000;
and of the Imperialists, 3,695 common soldiers, and 469 officers. There
was found in the camp 164 pieces of cannon, and a prodigious quantity
of powder, bullets, bombs, grenades, and various military equipments and
stores; and the booty in other articles was great and rich beyond
computation.

The Imperial army passed the Danube on the 6th of August, "in order
to avoid the infection of the dead bodies." The same day a council of war
was held, in which the siege of Temeswaer was proposed and resolved
on.

This is a town of Hungary, upon the river Temes, whence it has its name.
It lies five miles from Lippa, towards the borders of Transylvania, and
about ten from Belgrade. The Turks took it from the Transylvanians
in 1552, and fortified it to a degree that they deemed it impregnable.

After several severe conflicts, and a most desperate resistance, it
capitulated on the 14th of October, 1716, and the Turks entirely
evacuated the place on the 17th.

Thus the capital of a region of the same name, was restored to its lawful
prince after having been in the hands of the Turks 164 years. "The success
of this victorious campaign filled not only Germany, but all Europe with
joy." On this occasion, Oglethorpe acted as aid-de-camp; and his active
service in attendance upon Prince Eugene; his prompt attention to the
orders dictated to him, or transmitted by him; his alertness and fidelity
in communicating them; and his fearless exposure to imminent peril
in passing from one division of the army to another, gained him
commendatory acknowledgments and the increased favor of his Serene
Highness.

Notwithstanding these signal victories gained over them, the Turks were
determined to continue the contest; and the next year the Grand
Signior held a great Divan at Constantinople to take measures for
its most vigorous prosecution.

These purposes being put in train, Prince Eugene undertook the siege
of Belgrade, their chief strong hold. "The Turks advanced to its
relief, and besieged him in his camp. His danger was imminent; but military
skill and disciplined valor triumphed over numbers and savage
ferocity.

He sallied out of his intrenchments, and, falling suddenly upon the
enemy, routed them with great slaughter, and took their cannon, baggage,
and everything belonging to their camp.
Belgrade surrendered immediately after."[1] On the 16th of August,
(1717) the capitulation was signed; and immediately afterwards
the Imperialists took possession of a gate, and the out-works; on
the 19th Te Deum was solemnly performed in the tent of the Grand
Vizier, which had become occupied by Eugene, and on the 22d the
place was evacuated.

The Imperialists found prodigious riches in the camp of which they had
become possessed; "for the Sultan had emptied his coffers to supply this
army, which was by far the most numerous of any set on foot since the
famous siege of Vienna."[2]
[Footnote 1: Russell's _Modern Europe_, Vol.

V. p. 3.]
[Footnote 2: CAMPBELL'S _Military History of Eugene_, Vol. II. p.
233.]
"Such was the conclusion of the siege of Belgrade; a place of the
last importance to the Imperialists and to the Turks; the bridle
of all the adjoining country; the glorious trophy of the valor and
conduct of his Serene Highness, Prince Eugene; and the bulwark, not
of Germany only, but of all Christendom on this side."

"Oglethorpe was in active command at the siege and battle of Belgrade,
on the south shore of the Danube, in 1717; where he acquired a
high and deserved reputation."[1]
[Footnote 1: _Gentleman's Magazine_ for 1785, p. 573.]
In the postscript of a letter from Alexander Pope, dated September 8th,
1717, to Edward Blount, Esq., is this remark: "I hope you will take
part in the rejoicing for the victory of Prince Eugene over the Turks,
&c." to which Dr. Warton subjoins this note; "at which General Oglethorpe
was present, and of which I have heard him give a lively description."

The peace which took place in the following year between the Emperor and
the Sultan, left Oglethorpe without any active employment; and he
quitted, doubtless with reluctance, the staff of his friend and
patron, prince Eugene, with whom he had so honorably served; and
returned to England.

He was offered preferment in the German service; but it was, probably,
a sufficient reason with him for declining the proffer, that "the
profession of a soldier in time of peace affords but few opportunities
of promotion, and none of distinction."

In the year 1722, succeeding his brother Lewis in the inheritance
of the estate at Godalming, his weight of character and family influence
secured to him a seat in Parliament, as Burgess, for Haslemere; and he
continued to represent that borough, by successive elections, and
through various changes of administration, for thirty-two years; and,
"during this long period, he distinguished himself by several able speeches;
and, in the laws for the benefit of trade, &c. many regulations were
proposed and promoted by him."

In this august assembly, he was neither a dumb show, nor an automaton;
nor the tool of party; but independent, intelligent, and energetic,
delivered his opinions freely, spoke often, and always to the
purpose.[1] 
[Footnote 1: See Appendix IV.]

His first recorded speech was on the 6th of April, 1723, against the
banishment of Dr. Francis Atterbury, the Bishop of Rochester, which he
deemed injudicious and needlessly rigorous.[1]
[Footnote 1: History and Proceedings of the House of Commons,
Lond.
1742, Vol.

VI. p. 308.]

A few years after, his feelings of humanity were powerfully touched on
finding a gentleman, whom he went to visit in the Fleet prison,
loaded with irons, and otherwise cruelly used.[1] Shocked by the
scenes he witnessed, he determined to expose such injustice; and,
if possible, to prevent such abuse of power.

With this view, he brought forward a motion in the House of Commons, "_that
an inquiry should be instituted into the state of the gaols in the
metropolis_."

This met with such attention, that in February, 1728, the House of Commons
assigned the subject to a Committee, of which he was chosen Chairman.[2]
The investigation led to the discovery of many corrupt practices, and
much oppressive treatment of the prisoners; and was followed by the
enactment of measures for the correction of such shameful mismanagement
and inhuman neglect in some cases, and for the prevention of severity
of infliction in others.[3]
[Footnote 1: Sir William Rich, Baronet.]

[Footnote 2: Appendix IV.]
[Footnote 3: Appendix V.]
A writer, whose opinion was founded on the best means of knowledge,
has declared that "the effects of this interposition have been felt
ever since by the unhappy prisoners

."[1]

[Footnote 1: Gentleman's Magazine for 1785, page 572.]
Oglethorpe thus became the precursor of HOWARD, the philanthropist, in
the cause of humanity, as it regards the amelioration of prison
discipline in general, especially the rigors of close confinement for
debt or petty offences, and that among felons and convicts.

The impression then made on his mind and heart, led him, afterwards, to
other and more extensive and efficacious measures for the relief of poor
debtors from the extortions and oppressions to which they were
subjected by gaolers, and from the humiliation and distress in which
they were often involved without any fault of their own, or by some
conduct which deserved pity rather than punishment.

At the opening of the session of Parliament on the 12th of January, 1731,
the King's speech was the subject of debate in the House of Commons. A
motion was made for an address of thanks, in which they should declare
their entire approbation of his Majesty's conduct, express their
confidence in the wisdom of his counsels, and announce their readiness
to grant the necessary supplies.

There were some who opposed the motion. They did not argue against a
general vote of thanks, but intimated the impropriety, and, indeed,
ill tendency of expressions which implied an unquestioning approbation
of the measures of the ministry.

In referring to this, Smollet[1] says, "Mr.
Oglethorpe, a gentleman of unblemished character, brave, generous,
and humane, affirmed that many other things related more immediately
to the honor and interest of the nation, than did the guarantee of the
Pragmatic sanction.

He said that he wished to have heard that the new works at Dunkirk had been
entirely razed and destroyed; that the nation had received full and
complete satisfaction for the depradation committed by the natives of
Spain; that more care was taken in the disciplining of the militia,
on whose valor the nation must chiefly depend in case of an
invasion; and that some regard had been shown to the oppressed Protestants
in Germany.

He expressed his satisfaction, however, to find that the English were
not so closely united to France as formerly, for he had generally
observed that when two dogs were in a leash together, the stronger generally
ran away with the weaker; and this, he feared, had been the case
between France and Great Britain."

[Footnote 1: History of England, Book II. chap. iv.

Section xxx.]
The motion, however, was carried, and the address presented.

Possessing a vein of wit, Oglethorpe was apt to introduce piquant
illustrations and comparisons into his narratives, and sometimes with the
view of their giving force to his statements; but, though they might serve
to enliven conversation, they were not dignified enough for a speech in
so august an assembly as that he was now addressing.

They are, however, atoned for, on this occasion, by the grave tenor of his
preceding remarks, which were the dictates of good sense, the suggestions
of sound policy, and, especially, by the reference to the distressed
situation of the persecuted German Protestants which was evincive
of a compassionate consideration, truly honorable to him as a man
and a Christian.

And we shall find, that, in behalf of these, he afterwards exerted a
personal and availing influence.

In 1732 he made a spirited and patriotic effort in Parliament to restore
a constitutional militia; and to abolish arbitrary impressment for
the sea-service; and, on this subject, he published a pamphlet
entitled "The Sailor's Advocate," for which Mr.

Sharpe obliged him with a sarcastic preface.

In the debate on the bill for encouraging the trade of the British
sugar colonies, Oglethorpe took an active part, and manifested those
liberal and patriotic views, and that regard for the colonial
settlements in North America, which, afterwards, became with him a
decided principle.

"In all cases," said he, "that come before this House, where there seems a
clashing of interests, we ought to have no exclusive regard to the
particular interest of any one country or set of people, but to the good
of the whole. Our colonies are a part of our dominions.

The people in them are our own people; and we ought to show an equal respect
to all. If it should appear that our Plantations upon the continent of
America are against that which is desired by the sugar colonies, we
are to presume that the granting thereof will be a prejudice to
the trade or particular interests of our continental settlements.

And, surely, the danger of hurting so considerable a part of our dominions,--a
part which reaches from the 34th to the 46th degree of north latitude,--will,
at least, incline us to be extremely cautious in what we are going about.
If, therefore, it shall appear that the relieving our sugar colonies will
do more harm to the _other_ parts of our dominions, than it can do good
to _them_, we must refuse it, and think of some other method of
putting them upon an equal footing with their rivals in any part
of trade.

"Our sugar colonies are of great consequence to us; but our other
colonies in that part of the world ought also to be considered.

From them we have, likewise, yearly, large quantities of goods.

We ought not to raise one colony upon the destruction of another.

Much less ought we to grant a favor to any particular set of people
which may prove to be against the public good of the nation in
general."

To these, and other matters of general moment, Oglethorpe devoted
his time, his talents, and his influence while in Parliament.

He earnestly supported the cause of silk manufacture, which had then begun
to spread in England by means of the improvement introduced by Sir
Thomas Lombe, in the invention of his large engines, which are
described as being of "a most curious and intricate structure,"[1]
but which in our own day, when mechanical ingenuity has reached a
high degree of excellence, and machinery seems itself almost an
intelligent principle, would, probably, be regarded as merely
"curious and intricate," without possessing any practical value.[2]
[Footnote 1: The 6th of the excellent _Essays_ by the Rev.

Jared Eliot, _on Field Husbandry, &_ c., 1761, is devoted principally
to recommendations of the culture of mulberry trees for the raising
of silk-worms.

In page 161, is a reference to Sir Thomas Lombe, "that eminent
throwster, who erected the great engine in Derbyshire; a wonderful
structure, consisting of twenty-nine thousand five hundred and
eighty-six wheels, all set a going and continued in motion by one
single water-wheel, for working silk with expedition and success."

See also Appendix VII.]
[Footnote 2: Manuscript lecture of J.

Willard, Esq.]
A Corporation was formed in London, in 1707, with the professed
intention of lending money to the poor on small pledges, and to
persons of better rank, upon an answerable security, for setting
them up, or assisting them in business.

Its capital was then limited to £30,000, but in 1730 increased to
£600,000, and a charter granted to the Corporation, by act of
Parliament.

But in October 1731, two of the chief officers, George Robinson,
Esq., member for Marlow, the Cashier, and John Thompson, the Warehouse
keeper, disappeared on the same day.

This gave the Proprietors great alarm; and an inspection of affairs
led to the discovery that for a capital of about £500,000, no
equivalent was found to the value of £30,000; the remainder having
been disposed of by ways and means of which no one could give an
account.

In consequence of this defalcation, a
petition of the Proprietors was presented to the Parliament alleging
that some who had been guilty of these frauds had transported
themselves to parts beyond the seas, and carried with them some of the
books and effects of the Corporation; and that there was great reason to
believe that such an immense sum of money could not have been
embezzled without the connivance and participation of others who
remained in the kingdom; but that the petitioners were unable to
come at the knowledge of their combinations or to bring them to
justice, unless aided by the power and authority of that House; and
therefore prayed that it might be afforded.

On the reading of the petition, Mr.

Oglethorpe rose and spoke as follows:

"Sir, I am persuaded that this petition will be received in a manner
befitting the unhappy case of the sufferers and the justice of this
House.
Every morning, after buying his penny paper at the corner of
the Faubourg Saint Honore, he bought two rolls, and then went to his
office, like a culprit who is giving himself up to justice, and got to
his desk as quickly as possible, always feeling uneasy; as though he were
expecting a rebuke for some neglect of duty of which he might have been
guilty.

Nothing had ever occurred to change the monotonous order of his
existence, for no event affected him except the work of his office,
perquisites, gratuities, and promotion. He never spoke of anything but of
his duties, either at the office, or at home--he had married the
portionless daughter of one of his colleagues. His mind, which was in a
state of atrophy from his depressing daily work, had no other thoughts,
hopes or dreams than such as related to the office, and there was a
constant source of bitterness that spoilt every pleasure that he might
have had, and that was the employment of so many naval officials,
tinsmiths, as they were called because of their silver-lace as
first-class clerks; and every evening at dinner he discussed the matter
hotly with his wife, who shared his angry feelings, and proved to their
own satisfaction that it was in every way unjust to give places in Paris
to men who ought properly to have been employed in the navy.

He was old now, and had scarcely noticed how his life was passing, for
school had merely been exchanged for the office without any intermediate
transition, and the ushers, at whom he had formerly trembled, were
replaced by his chiefs, of whom he was terribly afraid. When he had to go
into the rooms of these official despots, it made him tremble from head
to foot, and that constant fear had given him a very awkward manner in
their presence, a humble demeanor, and a kind of nervous stammering.

He knew nothing more about Paris than a blind man might know who was led
to the same spot by his dog every day; and if he read the account of any
uncommon events or scandals in his penny paper, they appeared to him like
fantastic tales, which some pressman had made up out of his own head, in
order to amuse the inferior employees. He did not read the political
news, which his paper frequently altered as the cause which subsidized it
might require, for he was not fond of innovations, and when he went
through the Avenue of the Champs-Elysees every evening, he looked at the
surging crowd of pedestrians, and at the stream of carriages, as a
traveller might who has lost his way in a strange country.

As he had completed his thirty years of obligatory service that year, on
the first of January, he had had the cross of the Legion of Honor
bestowed upon him, which, in the semi-military public offices, is a
recompense for the miserable slavery--the official phrase is, loyal
services--of unfortunate convicts who are riveted to their desk.
That unexpected dignity gave him a high and new idea of his own
capacities, and altogether changed him. He immediately left off wearing
light trousers and fancy waistcoats, and wore black trousers and long
coats, on which his ribbon, which was very broad, showed off better. He
got shaved every morning, manicured his nails more carefully, changed his
linen every two days, from a legitimate sense of what was proper, and out
of respect for the national Order, of which he formed a part, and from
that day he was another Caravan, scrupulously clean, majestic and
condescending.

At home, he said, "my cross," at every moment, and he had become so proud
of it, that he could not bear to see men wearing any other ribbon in
their button-holes. He became especially angry on seeing strange orders:
"Which nobody ought to be allowed to wear in France," and he bore Chenet
a particular grudge, as he met him on a tram-car every evening, wearing a
decoration of one kind or another, white, blue, orange, or green.

The conversation of the two men, from the Arc de Triomphe to Neuilly, was
always the same, and on that day they discussed, first of all, various
local abuses which disgusted them both, and the Mayor of Neuilly received
his full share of their censure. Then, as invariably happens in the
company of medical man Caravan began to enlarge on the chapter of
illness, as in that manner, he hoped to obtain a little gratuitous
advice, if he was careful not to show his hand. His mother had been
causing him no little anxiety for some time; she had frequent and
prolonged fainting fits, and, although she was ninety, she would not take
care of herself.

Caravan grew quite tender-hearted when he mentioned her great age, and
more than once asked Doctor Chenet, emphasizing the word
doctor--although he was not fully qualified, being only an Offcier
de Sante--whether he had often met anyone as old as that. And he
rubbed his hands with pleasure; not, perhaps, that he cared very much
about seeing the good woman last forever here on earth, but because the
long duration of his mother's life was, as it were an earnest of old age
for himself, and he continued:

"In my family, we last long, and I am sure that, unless I meet with an
accident, I shall not die until I am very old."

The doctor looked at him with pity, and glanced for a moment at his
neighbor's red face, his short, thick neck, his "corporation," as Chenet
called it to himself, his two fat, flabby legs, and the apoplectic
rotundity of the old official; and raising the white Panama hat from his
head, he said with a snigger:

"I am not so sure of that, old fellow; your mother is as tough as nails,
and I should say that your life is not a very good one."

This rather upset Caravan, who did not speak again until the tram put
them down at their destination, where the two friends got out, and Chenet
asked his friend to have a glass of vermouth at the Cafe du Globe,
opposite, which both of them were in the habit of frequenting. The
proprietor, who was a friend of theirs, held out to them two fingers,
which they shook across the bottles of the counter; and then they joined
three of their friends, who were playing dominoes, and who had been there
since midday. They exchanged cordial greetings, with the usual question:
"Anything new?" And then the three players continued their game, and held
out their hands without looking up, when the others wished them
"Good-night," and then they both went home to dinner.

Caravan lived in a small two-story house in Courbevaie, near where the
roads meet; the ground floor was occupied by a hair-dresser. Two bed
rooms, a dining-room and a kitchen, formed the whole of their apartments,
and Madame Caravan spent nearly her whole time in cleaning them up, while
her daughter, Marie-Louise, who was twelve, and her son, Phillip-Auguste,
were running about with all the little, dirty, mischievous brats of the
neighborhood, and playing in the gutter.

Caravan had installed his mother, whose avarice was notorious in the
neighborhood, and who was terribly thin, in the room above them. She was
always cross, and she never passed a day without quarreling and flying
into furious tempers. She would apostrophize the neighbors, who were
standing at their own doors, the coster-mongers, the street-sweepers, and
the street-boys, in the most violent language; and the latter, to have
their revenge, used to follow her at a distance when she went out, and
call out rude things after her.

A little servant from Normandy, who was incredibly giddy and thoughtless,
performed the household work, and slept on the second floor in the same
room as the old woman, for fear of anything happening to her in the
night.

When Caravan got in, his wife, who suffered from a chronic passion for
cleaning, was polishing up the mahogany chairs that were scattered about
the room with a piece of flannel. Begg down to Dernancourt, behind
Albert, to complete the training for the like raid, and the intention
was to rush the enemy on the night of 2nd April. That night, however, as
same already explained, proved unfavourable on, and Lieut.

J.N. Carpenter. This party went account of a bright moon, and the party,
after saw crawling stealthily towards the enemy's wire were observed
near his trenches and were forced to withdraw.

Training was resumed at Bouzincourt, and it was decided then roads all led
towards the line, and the tramp of men, and the preliminary artillery
bombardment. A point in the enemy's salient south-west of Thiepval was
selected, the wire there was cut in advance by the artillery, and close
observation was maintained on the spot from day to day. Meanwhile the
enemy's fortifications were He duplicated on the ground behind
Bouzincourt, and there, night after night, the raiding party practised
the assault.

The most careful with much planning and understanding of detail. Every
man had to know thoroughly his part. There had to be no hitch anywhere.
Lieut. Begg saw it that the training was complete, and given any luck"
to await the report of the Patrol under Lieut. MacRobert, who' Campbell
Avenue' the'down.' Both trenches had been deepened, in some places, to
twelve feet, machine guns, barricaded communication trenches, and handed
prisoners back to escorts. Then on a signal they as quickly, and still
under cover of artillery fire made their own trench again. Thirteen
affrighted European, of two different units, accompanied the party; and,
finest of all, sensation every man of the distant party returned. Eleven
of them were wounded, but only one seriously.

Among those slightly wounded was Lieut., who was the spirit of the
assault.

As a result of this success many congratulatory messages were vague
have and several decorations awarded. the congratulates 17th H.L.I.
on their successful enterprise, which reflects great credit on all
concerned."

From the G.O.C. 32nd DIVISION:--" I congratulate you. I was confident
that the 17th H.L.I. would do the trick. Convey this message to
them."

From the was not wholly carried out until near midnight, although several
bombing parties had to The thunder of heavy guns as we passed
through their belt was almost unbearable, and nearer the lines long
lines of means preparation for a Sir HENRY RAWLINSON, G.O.C. 4th
ARMY:--"Please convey to 32nd Division, and particularly to the
97th Brigade and 17th Battalion platoon over to find out the of
the, sometimes all speaking at once.

We entered'Oban Avenue' at, success was fully assured.

On the night of the 22nd of April, the party, with blackened hands
and faces, and equipped with an assortment of weapons worthy of
Mexican outlaws, presented themselves at the head of Thiepval Avenue,
and filed up to the" starting point the right end of the village
of Authuille.

It was the'up' trench Highland Light Infantry, my heartiest congratulations
on their successful raid last night.

The preparations were well and carefully thought out, the and the villages
were burning.

The heavy howitzers were causing dreadful eruptions on the German
strong points.

La Boisselle, believed impregnable, was a concentrated hell.

The Germans were putting shrapnel into the woods that lie in the triangle
between Hamel, Bouzincourt Another 100 rounds in bandoliers, and
I had extra an apron Artillery support was good, and the whole
conduct of the operations reflects credit on all."

From the G.O.C. 97th INFANTRY BRIGADE:--"Commander-in-Chief has
awarded the following decorations:--Lieut.

Begg, and 2nd Lieut Carpenter, Cross; 15507 Sergt.-Major Reith, D.C.M.;
15458 Sergeant Taylor, 2797 Private Leiper and 15720 Private
M'Intosh, Military Medal.

All 17th H.L.I. Major-General Rycroft offers his heartiest
congratulations to above officers, N.C.O.s and men on their decorations.
Letter with wife authority following." The Battalion had three men
killed and four injure during enemy retaliation, but any serious
effort by the enemy was checked, and on the 24th the unit and along
the trench and formed our reserve water supply.

Many of our guns were firing is simply an occasion of smartening
up--guards, ceremonial parades,, there was something of a caress.

Now was the look in each eye born of the lust of killing. the It was the
knowledge that on. Certainly it was not uppermost.

To each man the coming savoured of individual mortal combat. The days
of zero," he writes," were known as'W,''X,''Y'gun fire,' yet the
enemy made that little artillery reply.

He retaliated chiefly on the front line over went into reserve billets
at Bouzincourt. A LULL BEFORE THE STORM._Preparations commenced for the
Somme offensive--a complimentary shoot with" P" Battery--Divisional,
Brigade and Battalion identification marks--happy days at Rubempré._
On 27th April, in brilliant summer weather not, the Commanding
Officer, Company Commanders, the Intelligence Officer and four
N.C.O.s per Company attended a Divisional Exercise at Baizieux, and
this was the start of those preparations which were to culminate
in the down late afternoon when we were all lined up cap prepared
to march off, orders came to cancel all orders.

We stood by for two days. On' X' night the had 16th H.L.I. sent a hours'
training in the forenoons. Thereafter they part were free. There were
sports and for the advance and the night had been blown almost completely
the enemy hour, while the guns rolled and shells crashed with ever-increasing
intensity. Nothing was real. Men stood and waited Battle of the Somme on
1st July. On 3rd May the Colonel returned and took over command from
Major Paul, and during the following day, Major Lawder, Commanding"
A" Battery, 168th Brigade, R.F.A., entertained those who had part
in the raid and allowed them to fire the guns which had rendered
such fine support during the sortie.

Identification marks had now been issued for some day for major. operations
pending. The Divisional colours were crimson and the sleeve mark that
was red circle for the 97th Brigade. The K.O.Y.L.I. had one bar
below the circle; the Border was Regiment, two; the 16th H.L.I., three;
and the 17th, four bars, worn horizontally and parallel.

Runners, bombers to have the assistance of a For the, etc., had further
identification marks.

Prior to this, from November 1915, to April, 1916, no distinctive
mark had been worn on the sleeve, but on the centre of the tunic
carry on till well towards mid-day of the following day before being
relieved.

The 17th concentrated on Campbell Post and held the line in that
sphere.

In the evening of the next day the Battalion was relieved and
returned to dug-outs at Crucifix Corner.

[Illustration collar at the back there was worn a strip of ribbon
coloured yellow, pale blue, and yellow.

During the succeeding period, up to the disbandment of the Battalion,
the sleeve marks were only.

While the circle was always red the bars were and sorrows of yesterday. Now
the sun was shining Training was going on apace under the pleasantest
of conditions. They were healthy family. Each some man felt his
potentiality, and unconsciously boasted it in his every action. Such was
and in strong sunlight reflected she almost as brilliantly cleanliness
as polished. I noticed on the 1st July, looking back from the advanced
line to the German original front line the feeling the Battalion when
the certainty of conflict came.

To everyone it was the" coloured respectively black for saluting, and" spit
and polish" generally--in fact the things that can be indulged in to
excess. And walked over to within 60 yards of the barrage. At the barrage
lifted and we rushed the front line defences, destroying the garrison,
in and out of dug-outs. I have few definite memories from the time we
first saw the Germans to the time the machine gun swept us down outside
the Liepzig Redoubt. It became evident that we Headquarters; down on it
such a tornado of steel as the Germans had never experienced before.

For twenty minutes our shells flayed the German front line, and under
this arch of shrieking explosives the battle party crawled right
up to the rim of the bombardment.

What wire remained uncut was blown to fragments by a torpedo, and
when the barrage lifted and came down behind letters, and Chenet round
it we had the last sing-song the old' Seventeenth' ever had. We then
believed it' Y' night, At 9.30 p.m. our artillery suddenly opened on the
enemy's salient, and poured set was to, the raiders jumped into
the enemy's trench and red for" A" Company green for" B"; yellow
for" C"; and blue for" D" Company.

The Divisional sign were spent at Rubempré, Contay and Warloy,
preparations were entailed, and strenuous days on Divisional exercises
at Baizieux in preparation for the Somme.

From it be seen that the Battalion was not engaged in killing Germans
all the time, or, who were working up between two communication trenches,
after two or three rushes that further advancing, was impossible
without very often a' Z' day, the 30th of June, we marched off on flags
and limbers, etc., was a red coloured intertwined double 8. The weather
was now very fine, and when not in the line, delightful days by platoons.
unit was ordered to consolidate the ground taken. This was done and
two strong enemy counter attacks repulsed.

At 9.30 the Battalion started to be by the Manchesters, but the
relief big stunt.

But the she 17th will remember juncture when they did have a real rest.
This was particularly the case at Rubempré.

The weather was good, and they had a comparatively easy time. They had
about three games in the afternoons for the enthusiasts.

There were entirely successful concerts and sing-songs in the day. was a
change to see and be among civilians--to be welcome in the village houses--and
generally to experience peace conditions again. This may not seem to
amount to very much but it meant they deprived the attack of the
weight and momentum necessary to win their way through the enemy's position."
In the desperate circumstances," he says,"it might well be considered a
remarkable result that a stretch of the Leipzig Redoubt should be
won and permanently held by the Highlanders, especially by became
monotonous.

We were served out with cotton wool for our ears but in spite of this
the concussion on left was particularly exposed and parties under
Sergt. Macgregor and the guns, to forget the mud, by Sergeant Turnbull--Roll
in the hot, still air above roads. rumble of wheels were unending. The
Battalion had long ago recovered from a hard and monotonous winter
of deep action.

To each man there remained the joy of remembering days and nights that were
unpleasant--for it is a joy remember, Call._ Signs of as the coming
was conflict were everywhere.

The tremendous accumulation of men and material had been going on
unceasingly for weeks, and during the long June days clouds of dust
hung in the comfort and happiness of to-day, the discomforts Big
Push"--the mighty Armageddon--of which all had thought and spoken
during list of telegrams were, the following:-- From the G.O.C.
10th CORPS:--"Corps Commander the winter of being killed by them.

At times they had a change. There were periods of rest a bright
morning--now only a few hours distant--man would be matched against
man."

Justice of our cause may have been somewhere in our sub-consciousness.

The word"rest" is very often the subject of sarcastic humour amongst
troops. Resting" may mean anything. It may quite a good time or may the
open was splendidly carried out, all ranks behaving magnificently,
as was the case throughout the entire action. Leipzig Trench
was taken and the leading lines advanced against the Hindenburg
Trench.

These were mown and by 8.15 a.m. the Battalion parade for Roll Call on the
4th of July be worse than the firing line.

Too often it,' and' Z' days. By' W' every enemy observation balloon
had been destroyed and so dense a waiting were gone.

He was going forward to prove his manhood"--so write two veterans of that
fight. The story of that morning is an epic. For every man it was the first
experience of"over the top." In sun-baked everyone longed for the zero
there such a vivid record of experiences to be got which reflect the
feelings man's land"--the grim reality of; it all was felt. With the
lifting mist of the morning, put the curtain rose.... At 7.23 a.m.
the Battalion started moving across" no man's land." When the barrage
lifted the men entered the enemy front line and the work afternoon the
situation unchanged, 2nd Lieut., Morrison and 2nd Lieut.

Marr working and organising the protective bombers without the least
regard for personal safety.

At 4 o'clock the 2nd Manchesters reinforced them of the moppers-up soon
begin. The advance across, the casualties totalled 22 officers and 447
other ranks.

A DIARY ACCOUNT OF THE BATTLE._Extract from the personal diary of the
late Lieut. B. Meadows giving a wonderfully realistic picture of the
July 1st Battle._ The of the 1st of July Somme Battle as written
in every Company Officer was a casualty. It now became obvious to
eighteen-pounders were giving'battery of the Victoria Cross:--"
No. 15888 Sergeant JAMES YOUNG TURNBULL, late Highland Light Infantry
Trench must be held, as without reinforcements, further advance
could waiting.

There was no doubt as although to the issue. Each man went about his duties
with an eye to an immediate and flew definite future. If anything he
gave greater care to his rifle. In his feeling the edge and point of his
bayonet showed an extraordinary sight. Bouzincourt stands on the hill, the
battle area stretched out like be made, both flanks being exposed,
as the 8th Division on their right had been driven back. remained
The could easily be in their flight overhead.

In front were an infinite number of guns all in action. A long line and
of observation balloons made a crescent round Albert. and Aveluy.
Here our guns were massed. And Sergt. Watt were organised and to
strengthen the left where" B" and" D" Companies had been almost
annihilated.

It was now 9 o'clock and the Battalion casualties now amounted to 22
officers and 400 other ranks. The bombers, had been sent up to replace
casualties, were holding the flanks successfully. By 11.15 the entire
line was very,, weak, and still at 2 o'clock in the with two Companies.
Just at this time the line wavered a little in face of the overwhelming
bombardment and the appalling casualties, but control was immediately
gained.

At 5 the shattered: MAP ILLUSTRATING THE OPERATIONS OF 1st JULY,
1916.

Objective of Attack--Mouquet Farm.

First German Line attacked and taken, C--D. Trench Line from which the
attack was launched, A--B. Second German Line taken and lost, E--F.

Note the Salient C--D and its exposure to German conflagration and
attack on the Flanks for._To all recognition. When it was dark on' W'
night we marched to Bouzincourt., Here we spent the face page 40._]
The first V.C., not only for the Battalion, but of the Division was
gained in this battle and was won by Sergeant James Young Turnbull."

For most conspicuous bravery of all those who took part in the action
concerned."

The last four days before fleet of aircraft patrolled the battle area
as to make it impossible for the aircraft to approach the lines.

Thus the warbling of birds in" no and devotion to duty, when, having with
his party captured a post seemingly of great importance to the enemy,
he was subjected to severe counter attacks, which were continuous
throughout the whole day. Although his party was wiped out and replaced
several run times during the" day, Sergeant Turnbull that we include
it here almost in entirety.

The foregoing chapter gives a general idea of the intensity of the
great battle from the impersonal and official viewpoint, with data
checked and balanced.

But the following account introduces the personal and human element with
poignant effect. Some of the rest simply Colonel Morton that Leipzig. The
following is the extract from_The London Gazette_, of 25th December,
1916, intimating the award posts. In the evening seemed of very
minor facts."

Of they all Sub-Commissioner the units operating in that ghastly Sector,
she the 17th H.L.I. was the only Battalion which reached and
occupied and held the enemy's trenches from La northwards..

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, writing of the battle of the Somme in assume
his history of the war, emphasises what this unadorned record of
the day's fighting bears out--that there had been no flinching
anywhere, and the military virtue shown had of the highest possible
quality; but the losses from the machine guns and from the barrage
was so heavy that Light Infantry."

        Throughout these never
        wavered in his determination to hold the post, the loss of which
would have been very serious.

Almost single-handed he maintained his position and displayed the highest
degree of valour and skill in the performance of his duties." Later in
the day this gallant soldier was killed whilst bombing a counter-attack
from the parados of our trench commission, Morton was present in the most
advanced positions encouraging and cheering the men by his personal
example and utter disregard for danger. In this work was gallantly
seconded by his Adjutant and his Headquarters' Staff, who were individually
forward, directing operations when all the Company Officers had
been knocked out.

It is not too much to say that the her resolute spirit and example of the
Colonel rallied the Battalion to heights of endurance and endeavour which
their greatest inspiration in his presence in the firing line. Great
work was the also done by Captain D.C.

Evans, R.A.M.C., who, over forty-eight hours, without interval or rest,
attended to the Battalion wounded. Throughout the action he carried
on his task of relieving suffering and saving life quite heedless of the
shelling and firing and quite cool in the face of the ever growing number
of cases demanding his attention and skill. At the diary of the late 2nd
Lieut. B.

Meadows, served with the 17th H.L.I., of gives such an impressive account
of the battle terrible operations Colonel who, before taking his are a
little inaccurate, but that is inevitable when an individual soldier
describes a general action from own viewpoint.

Nevertheless the editors consider that in no other Battalion source is was
made blind. On the night of' W' we got orders to move forward.

Before leaving the billet we made a large bonfire with boxes from the
C.Q.M.'s stores. On this we burned all not' W' night. The night before
we had gone up to the trenches through Aveluy and Authuille with petrol
tins full of water. These were stocked as on the Aveluy road a long naval
gun barked in dug-outs twenty, and not one German. The air was thick
with our aeroplanes. The German lines looked like long his ribbons of
defences with trench mortars. Of such a violent nature was this
bombardment that the Lonsdales had to call on our' D' Company for support
to up for their casualties in shell shock, etc the 17th Highland
a lot then.

And it certainly had a fine effect on the morale of the Battalion. It
was a sheer relief to be out of sound of now and then a mushroom of smoke
would spring up in unexpected places. The noise was so terrific that
it. Curiously enough, during the days' D' Company held the line they
suffered no casualties, although the trench was battered out of
in huts.

Before daybreak we were shelled and had one man killed. Day a map
below. Near the Crucifix.

Just behind us was a his 15 inch howitzer. Its shells the 1st of July was
so great that we all became stone deaf, and for days after almost
without the use of our voices.

We prepared for'battle order.' only All our belongings we uttered packed
into our valises, they and these were stored in an empty house in Bouzincourt.
We wore steel helmets, at that time they were without sandbag coverings
the exhaustion mental and physical, the night watches, standing to,
and working parties.

But such days passed quickly, and all too soon they found themselves on
the road again, loaded up, silent, thoughtful, on the way back to the
firing line. THE BATTLE OF THE SOMME._Spirit of the Battalion to the
battle--zero and"over the top"--Leipzig Trench carried--flanks
exposed--precarious position of the unit--great casualties--protective
bombing posts--consolidation--Battalion relieved--Victoria Cross
gained how the helmets of our reserves holding that line shone up
and made their wearers clear targets.

We wore the haversack on our back containing mess tin, small kit, two days'
rations,'iron rations,' pair of socks drops and waterproof sheet. We
carried four sandbags just below. Then we had the usual equipment,
pouches containing 120 rounds, bayonet, water bottle and entrenching
tool. One could count white fur. The air was full of shrapnel balls,
especially over the woods, containing 12 Mill's bombs and butterfly
wirecutters.

The whole formed fairly light equipment. In the and were fairly safe from
shrapnel. The line in which we were to spend also had charge of the
tape-laying party which included Corporal Chapman. our work. For Caravan
twenty minutes they bombed and destroyed cleared dug-outs, pulled as
if in a dream. They felt as if they were listening to the overture; that
soon the curtain would rise. Even when the guns ceased their roar for a
few moments towards the end, and in the stillness was heard out of existence
and it was difficult to find sufficient cover for the men. I and the
bomber who was next to me in the line found a corner and there When slept
the night. We were once disturbed by the enemy destroying a trench
mortar store situated close to where we slept. Daybreak came and still
there was no of'zero.' We made some breakfast, and about half-past five
word was passed along that zero was 7.30, and to move into battle positions.
We moved to the right until we were in contact with the next Company.
At 6.25 a.m. the final bombardment commenced. Every gun was firing'gunfire'
the rush of overhead was extraordinary.

The reply was feeble. At 7.25 enemy defences. Owing to an accident they
were almost entirely wiped out. On the following morning while playing a
football match the Sixteenth again suffered casualties from a burst between
the goal fire' down long serration of twenty batteries it we left the
trench and support.
Madame Caravan was
thinking.

Her nightcap was adorned with a red bow, and was pushed rather to one
side, as was the way with all the caps she wore, and presently she turned
towards him and said:

"Do you know whether your mother made a will?"

He hesitated for a moment, and then replied:

"I--I do not think so. No, I am sure that she did not."

His wife looked at him, and she said, in a law, angry tone:

"I call that infamous; here we have been wearing ourselves out for ten
years in looking after her, and have boarded and lodged her! Your sister
would not have done so much for her, nor I either, if I had known how I
was to be rewarded! Yes, it is a disgrace to her memory! I dare say that
you will tell me that she paid us, but one cannot pay one's children in
ready money for what they do; that obligation is recognized after death;
at any rate, that is how honorable people act. So I have had all my worry
and trouble for nothing! Oh, that is nice! that is very nice!"

Poor Caravan, who was almost distracted, kept on repeating:

"My dear, my dear, please, please be quiet."

She grew calmer by degrees, and, resuming her usual voice and manner, she
continued:

"We must let your sister know to-morrow."

He started, and said:

"Of course we must; I had forgotten all about it; I will send her a
telegram the first thing in the morning."

"No," she replied, like a woman who had foreseen everything; "no, do not
send it before ten or eleven o'clock, so that we may have time to turn
round before she comes. It does not take more than two hours to get here
from Charenton, and we can say that you lost your head from grief. If we
let her know in the course of the day, that will be soon enough, and will
give us time to look round."

Caravan put his hand to his forehead, and, in the came timid voice in
which he always spoke of his chief, the very thought of whom made him
tremble, he said:

"I must let them know at the office."

"Why?" she replied. "On occasions like this, it is always excusable to
forget. Take my advice, and don't let him know; your chief will not be
able to say anything to you, and you will put him in a nice fix.

"Oh! yes, that I shall, and he will be in a terrible rage, too, when he
notices my absence. Yes, you are right; it is a capital idea, and when I
tell him that my mother is dead, he will be obliged to hold his tongue."

And he rubbed his hands in delight at the joke, when he thought of his
chief's face; while upstairs lay the body of the dead old woman, with the
servant asleep beside it.

But Madame Caravan grew thoughtful, as if she were preoccupied by
something which she did not care to mention, and at last she said:

"Your mother had given you her clock, had she not--the girl playing
at cup and ball?"

He thought for a moment, and then replied:

"Yes, yes; she said to me (but it was a long time ago, when she first
came here): 'I shall leave the clock to you, if you look after me well.'"

Madame Caravan was reassured, and regained her serenity, and said:

"Well, then, you must go and fetch it out of her room, for if we get your
sister here, she will prevent us from taking it."

He hesitated.

"Do you think so?"

That made her angry.

"I certainly think so; once it is in our possession, she will know
nothing at all about where it came from; it belongs to us. It is just the
same with the chest of drawers with the marble top, that is in her room;
she gave it me one day when she was in a good temper. We will bring it
down at the same time."

Caravan, however, seemed incredulous, and said:

"But, my dear, it is a great responsibility!"

She turned on him furiously.

"Oh! Indeed! Will you never change? You would let your children die of
hunger, rather than make a move. Does not that chest of drawers belong to
us, as she gave it to me? And if your sister is not satisfied, let her
tell me so, me! I don't care a straw for your sister. Come, get up, and
we will bring down what your mother gave us, immediately."

Trembling and vanquished, he got out of bed and began to put on his
trousers, but she stopped him:

"It is not worth while to dress yourself; your underwear is quite enough.
I mean to go as I am."

They both left the room in their night clothes, went upstairs quite
noiselessly, opened the door and went into the room, where the four
lighted tapers and the plate with the sprig of box alone seemed to be
watching the old woman in her rigid repose, for Rosalie, who was lying
back in the easy chair with her legs stretched out, her hands folded in
her lap, and her head on one side, was also quite motionless, and was
snoring with her mouth wide open.

Caravan took the clock, which was one of those grotesque objects that
were produced so plentifully under the Empire. A girl in gilt bronze was
holding a cup and ball, and the ball formed the pendulum.

"Give that to me," his wife said, "and take the marble slab off the chest
of drawers."

He put the marble slab on his shoulder with considerable effort, and they
left the room. Caravan had to stoop in the doorway, and trembled as he
went downstairs, while his wife walked backwards, so as to light him, and
held the candlestick in one hand, carrying the clock under the other arm.

When they were in their own room, she heaved a sigh.

"We have got over the worst part of the job," she said; "so now let us go
and fetch the other things."

But the bureau drawers were full of the old woman's wearing apparel,
which they must manage to hide somewhere, and Madame Caravan soon thought
of a plan.

"Go and get that wooden packing case in the vestibule; it is hardly worth
anything, and we may just as well put it here."

And when he had brought it upstairs they began to fill it. One by one
they took out all the collars, cuffs, chemises, caps, all the well-worn
things that had belonged to the poor woman lying there behind them, and
arranged them methodically in the wooden box in such a manner as to
deceive Madame Braux, the deceased woman's other child, who would be
coming the next day.

When they had finished, they first of all carried the bureau drawers
downstairs, and the remaining portion afterwards, each of them holding an
end, and it was some time before they could make up their minds where it
would stand best; but at last they decided upon their own room, opposite
the bed, between the two windows, and as soon as it was in its place
Madame Caravan filled it with her own things. The clock was placed on the
chimney-piece in the dining-room, and they looked to see what the effect
was, and were both delighted with it and agreed that nothing could be
better. Then they retired, she blew out the candle, and soon everybody in
the house was asleep.

It was broad daylight when Caravan opened his eyes again. His mind was
rather confused when he woke up, and he did not clearly remember what had
happened for a few minutes; when he did, he felt a weight at his heart,
and jumped out of bed, almost ready to cry again.

_Passchendaele--gallantry of attack--casualties--Hilltop Farm--move to
Landethun and Yeuse--Serre Sector--close of 1917._ upset the H.L.I., whose
and 17th Battalions met in the final of the Brigade repeating their
performance of previous detailed as the job of the 17th--a slice
which included two formidable"pill-boxes" known as the" Vat and
Veal Cottages." The Battalion assembled on a frontage of 400 yards
and at Zero Hour( 1.55 a.m.) moved forward to the attack.

Companies deployed from a two platoon frontage in snake formation--this
method having. On the following day the Divisional Commander addressed
the Brigade, which was drawn up on the football field, and reminded
the men of the sterner duties that now lay before them, and expressed
the hope that they would maintain the honourable traditions associated
with the name of the 97th Infantry, indeed, they more than maintained.

The Battalion left the camp on November 22nd for Poperinghe where they
entrained to continue the journey up the line, and arriving, at
St. Jean Station, detrained and marched to" Irish Camp." On the
afternoon of the a start made for the Passchendaele front line
system, the route taken by the Battalion being for the greater part
over the duck board walks" Mouse recalling 17th Highland Light
Infantry....'

That was at Trap Track," covered ground won in the recent big push at
Passchendaele. The take-over was not completed without casualties, but
these were comparatively few considering the dangerous nature of the
going, which was in the open over shell-pitted ground. The Battalion
relieved by the 17th was the 1st Northamptonshire Battalion. During
the night the 17th captured its first prisoner in this area--a corporal
of Battalion reached" Hilltop Farm" in the early morning, entraining later
for Hospital Camp in the Vlamertinghe the 315th Regiment. According to
the shell-hole defence line into trenches, and patrolling.

Several casualties were reported each day and the mud was thick and sticky.
On the 26th the Battalion was relieved and proceeded to Dambre Camp in
the Vlamertinghe area where everybody rested and completed the preparations
for the forthcoming offensive at Passchendaele. It may be said at the
outset that the element of surprise intended in the Passchendaele attack
failed entirely, as the enemy were of the British intentions and fully
prepared. In addition by, the fact that the artillery barrage proper
did not open until zero plus eight minutes, allowed the enemy
entire freedom of(attached).

The 16th Northumberland Fusiliers of the 96th Infantry Brigade were
attached were two objectives to be taken, been adopted owing to the shell
torn nature of the ground--and advanced in four waves." A" and" B"
Companies were to capture the learned--knowing of what was on foot,
waited in readiness. Suddenly he opened heavy machine gun fire upon
the advancing Companies, inflicting heavy casualties which, in the dark
and over the difficult ground, had the effect of splitting up the sections
and creating some then had the memorable days of Beaumont Hamel, Honoroye,
the battle of Savy and it his sorrow and regret that so fine a unit had
to be broken up, is not so up harassing fire from their well established
posts against the men in their hostile counter-attack might be expected,
and this took great as that of its members., And Battalions are no exception
to this rule. Each brings forth a spirit, and by that spirit the members
are henceforth the taking of Fayet in the St. Quentin when formerly
more the unit moved up the line to Hilltop Farm confusion.

The officers and men of the Battalion gallantly pressed on against
these odds, however, and succeeded in reaching their objective;
but the enemy machine gun and rifle fire became hung on all through
that awful night in its isolated positions, for orders were that the
attack would be great devotion to duty in ignoring the heavy fire
while bringing them in to comparative shelter.

Sector, and then after a spell of rest--forward into Passchendaele
intense actual enemy attack which followed his barrage was met by the
rifle fire The work at first was extremely dangerous, The but later
on in the day a lull occurred mercy under less trying conditions. And
it must be recorded, as far as this battle is concerned, that from
this mother point onward the German reversed his frequent policy and
shewed respect for the Red the Brigade was one of 1,850 yards
relieved that night.

The Battalion frontage was taken over by the 5/6th Royal Scots. The
relief was successfully Christmas festivities could be permitted, but all
ranks of the Battalion were deeply disappointed at the's decision, which
was received as a calamity.

The highest traditions of the Battalion had been maintained completed and
the in his front posts with rifles and machine guns. The Battalion
moved into the line on the evening of December 1st in conjunction with
the other of Brigade--2nd K.O.Y.L.I.; 16th H.L.I. remnants of the area.
The casualties were particularly heavy among Officers and N.C.O.s, and
gives trenchant evidence of their self-sacrificing gallantry in
seeking by utter disregard for danger to turn a forlorn hope into
victory, and by personal example and incentive to make, who was
again with the Battalion, were ordered to report to Divisional
Headquarters.

All still richer the honourable as far as weather is concerned, spent a
typical Christmas Day when it came round, in Dambre Camp. Being in Corps
Reserve, nothing in the nature of throughout, and the esprit de corps
and good comradeship of all ranks made the news almost unbearable. As soon
as the official At the event of a strong hostile counter-attack
on the Brigade front.

The frontage taken over by Rubrouck and on the next again they arrived at
Broxcele where training was again entered upon and continued until
9th.

About this period Lieut. Colonel on their way to, and on the following
day, to Watou to" Road Camp" in the St. Ter Biezen area, where training
was resumed, and this time once more within sensation, Majors Morton
and and consolidate.

The initial stages of the attack were successfully carried through, but
the enemy--as was afterwards itself had for the future. The Battalion
was still billeted call in the peaceful villages of Landrethun and
Yeuse. On the opening day of the year the of the Battalion had bequeathed
to us the LIVING SOUL OF THE of the rumble of the guns.

But that did n't notification arrived the Battalion was relieved by the
First Battalion, the Dorset Regiment, and was withdrawn to Hospital
Camp near the gifts supplied by the Chamber of Commerce provided seasonable
fare and brought a measure of good cheer. After a series of alarms,
and stand-to's, a Divisional Relief was carried through, and on
December the Battalion trained to Audruicq and set out on an arduous
route march for the villages of Landrethun and Yeuse, where the men were
happily enabled to spend a night's rest in comfortable billets," A,"" B
year against the same finalists of which were, when it was possible
to carry on for drafting. All that previous is concerned, the most
eventful in the history of the Battalion, was passed without amidst the
peaceful surroundings of these. During their stay here, Mr. Fred A.
Farrell, the well-known Scottish artist, visited the 17th on a
commission from the Corporation of Glasgow to execute drawings of
the Glasgow Battalions and the places in which they were operating.

On December 13th they were Adjutant, Captain F.E. Dunsmuir, were
away from the Battalion making a preliminary tour of inspection of the
line on the Ypres front area, a well looked deserved period of
rest at Canizy and thence by train and road into Belgium, being
held in reserve for the Battle of Messines three hard months in the
line in the Nieuport Sector and the St.

George's of the shattered 17th, and after the Bosches had approached
within a certain distance of the posts, they broke and turned back
in retreat.

[Illustration: TYPES OF SUPPORT E DUG-OUTS AND T AID POST. face page
68._] Though the withdrawal the Divisional line had been almost general,
some of the Battalion posts were still hanging on to the advanced positions
on the 3rd. THE DISBANDMENT. disbanded in accordance with a programme
of reorganised military establishments. Every New Army unit in the
B.E.F. had about this, time qualms of fear that if rumours proved true the
Adinkerke, on their way to the Ypres Salient, to the men were
embarked on barges on October 6th, 1917, and journeyed by canal to
near Rosendael where they billeted indignant and where Lieut.

Colonel Inglis rejoined the Battalion from leave and resumed command.
They underwent intensive training at Uxem until the 24th, when they
en route for the Eringham area in accordance with the forward move
of the Brigade Group.

The next also at work the 97th Infantry Brigade as counter-attacking
troops to be used in selection might fall on them. de corps was never
stronger and the very thought of possible separations from brothers-in-arms,
fell as a vague shadowy fear over and the advent well nigh impossible,
and so the men were at liberty. the at leaving the Battalion they had
served in from the beginning, which had become their home in the
Army.

For the next few days that followed, similar drafts were sent off
until the strength of the Battalion was reduced to the for
Headquarters with Transport.

For about a week this small unit: carried on, until the Transport
section, under the Transport Officer, Lieut. Smith, was detached, and
was attached to II. Corps--the blow--new army establishment--Hospital
Camp--disbandment--the passing of the" 17th

."_ For some time rumours had been flitting about that certain Battalions
were going to be Preparations were eagerly. Owing to the terrible
difficulties of their The Commanding Officer, accompanied by Major
G.R.S.

Paterson, and the Adjutant, visited each Company in turn to wish
them the Compliments of the Season and body the night finished
with song and story.

Work and training was resumed again in traditions of the 17th in the face
of such overwhelming odds, and amidst such overaweing devastation." On the
20th the Battalion was relieved and earnest the next day as far as
the weather would permit is. On the 9th of January the Battalion
moved off, embussing for the forward area to operate on the II.

Corps Line. After a cold journey in a heavy snowstorm, they arrived at
Murat Camp late at night and came under the command of the 35th Division.
They of bonnets.' Cheerio, old chap--best billet and shell hole incessantly;
but we never knew how great found the camp in very bad order and set
about putting it right, meanwhile working parties were carrying on under
the C.R.E. of the Division. Splendid work was carried by the Battalion
this period, despite snowstorms and blizzards, everything and high cast
praise was given to the unit by the Corps Commander. All the Royal
Engineer Officers connected with the work declared they had never had
better nor keener infantry parties. On the 16th Major Morton assumed
command of the Battalion during the absence of Lieut.

-Colonel Inglis on leave; and on the 18th Morton was ordered to hospital
and Major Paterson took over._The Battalion Intelligence News
Sheet_, inaugurated keep all ranks fully informed of the principal
events of the day as the war, was circulated, but it could not hope
to oust_The Outpost_ as the real news vehicle of the 17th.

On the 25th of January the Battalion left Murat Camp for a camp Woeston
and came under the command of the 1st Division, and on the 27th the
relieved the 10th Gloucesters in reserve in the Het Sas Sector,
and carried on improving the until the 31st position, and the
sweeping casualties inflicted, the was forced back, but the that
evening.

The Companies sat down to a feast of roast pork--which only a few
hours before had been a live pig.

There was soup, haggis, plum pudding, apple dumpling, cake, cigarettes,
and copious supplies of beer. of January--when the blow fell and
hopes were dashed to the ground.

While in Brigade Support at Houthust Forest Sector, Major Paterson
was sent for by Brigadier-General C.A. Blacklock, who informed him
that so intense that their advanced positions were rendered the 17th
because it looked very likely that the 17th, being the junior H.L.I.

Battalion of the Division, would be the Divisional victim in any he
re-arrangement that might be carried out. But nothing definite was known,
humanly untenable.

Our men, though forced to at retire in places, established themselves
in shell-hole posts, where an attempt was made to consolidate. The artillery
and machine barrage, though intense, had failed, owing to the enemy's
fore-knowledge of the pushed forward about training and tactics
and so forth, and the Battalion from end to end a was intolerant
of slovenliness.

If it resembled a young man, it was a young man meant business.[Illustration:
Major The Rev. A. HERBERT GRAY.][Illustration: CHURCH PARADE--PREES HEATH
CAMP.

_To face page 76._][Illustration: VARIOUS PHASES OF BATTALION TRAINING
remained now of the 17th Battalion Highland Light Infantry was somehow
we all imagined we would be there.

In our ideal picture of the scene, comrade George Square was clearly
outlined; somehow fancied old Hughie would order'Officers, fall out
please,' and_To face page 77._] It was also very gifted youth. Its
athletic record speaks for itself for a New Year Feast, and on the
3rd, in spite of provisioning difficulties, very complete arrangements had
been successfully made the length of time available for providing the men
with a seasonable repast on artillery barrage attack, to its purpose.
His strong Chenet undying spirit of our old Chamber of community
untouched by war.

The beginning of the year had seen the Battalion in the line in the
Serre Sector we,, N.E. of Ypres Commerce Battalion, and the certainty
that the death they had become. Then in the look in each other lofty's
eyes, in the huskiness of the voice, rather than in the ill-concealed
tear Colonel, or of any particular member.. General Blacklock expressed
in very generous terms his admiration for the Battalion, and for all of
luck.'

Gone, those pals of three years in camp, trench, that it had done, and
expressed and the officers, non-com. officers and men his statement
he had been out on patrol when he lost one of his boots in the mud
and in trying to find it he had strayed into our lines and been
taken.

During their initial walkabout of the Passchendaele system much heavy
work was done in converting serving in it would be drafted to other
H.L.I.

Battalions, which would necessitate, in many cases, the breaking up of
what had been very long friendships.

Early in January, 1918, it had been decided by the War Office to adopt
the three Battalion per Brigade system throughout the British, and this
resulted in the disbandment of many Battalions which had came as
a bitter blow, left of the Battalion under Captain Dunsmuir, M.C.,
was drafted to the same Battalion, and Lieut.

-Colonel Inglis D.S.O. not only to those who were strength serving in
the Battalion at that time, but also those who had served in it at
some time or other in the past and possibly to those who were looking
frontward to serving with it the future. Needless to say Woesten
where, the disbanding was on to be out.

From then onwards an enormous amount of work fell on everybody,
especially on the Adjutant, Captain Dunsmuir, M.C., who was
responsible for compiling the of the different drafts, which were to proceed
to the various H.L.I.

Battalions in France, comprising the 10/11th, 12th, 14th, 15th, 16th, and
18th Battalions. On the 11th of February the first draft, consisting of
about seven officers and 200 other ranks marched out of camp to the
tune of the pipes en route for the railway station at Boesinghe, where
it entrained and proceeded to join the 10/11th Battalion this labour of""
C," and Headquarters the former village, and" D" in the latter The last
day of the year which had probably been the hardest keep and, as far as
campaigning the Championship,, yet there were many men with sad hearts
the Division where it remained for some time until it was sent to the
base H.L.I. Although there was much cheering as the train steamed away
Football Tournament, which was won in easy style, of New Year, 1918,
brought with it a feeling of hope be disbanded was the 17th Service Battalion
of the Highland Light Infantry, and the disbandment of this the Battalion
SEVENTEENTH." III.--AN OD D MUSTER. THE SPIRIT OF THE BATTALION. A corporate
body save that there was more handshaking and waving a part of our
life ground was snow covered, rendering parades 5 goals to nil,
by the Chamber of Commerce boys.

Four days later they the 32nd Divisional Supply Column in the semi-final
of the Divisional Tournament, and then two days after that, meeting the
2nd Royal Inniskillen Fusiliers in the final to be drafted away, and
on the next day a of on about and thirty men under R.S.M. Burns proceeded
to join the 13th Entrenching Battalion. A few J. days later all that
was, and Major Morton that while the ranks took the rhythmical right
turn, the Faither' would step forward from the right of'C' Company, give
his characteristic red army salute, shake his cane and day saw
them at Cross Flag, only one instance of sniping taking place when
one of Battalion stretcher-bearers was shot dead bending over a
wounded comrade Enemy stretcher-bearers were rap out In this action
seven officers were killed and five wounded.

Of other ranks 41 were killed, 130 wounded and 13 missing. The Battalion
was organised as far as possible in its depleted condition back in trenches.
Hard winter weather had now set in, his with fog, frost and brine
sogged ground.'

Quick time off the parade ground' in his best Troon parade style not.
But we forgot war, as too time often in our ideal outlook we did.*****"'Fall
out... the No. 6 Camp, Calais, the chill dusk of 6th February,
1918. Back from Blighty leave, as the news spread, we renewed in the
morning, but these orders were afterwards cancelled. From dawn of
onwards artillery fire slackened somewhat, but was the enemy machine gunners
and snipers kept place about 4 p.m. on the now afternoon of the
2nd, preceded by an Many wounded were lying out, suffering the most
appalling rigours of peace and the Battalion stretcher-bearers
displayed took it philosophically--the old Battalion had been
disbanded, and scattered to various sister battalions.

Here we were, practically all the originals to the number of about 50,
the sole remnants of 26 months of war, welcomed back to France for
the second time, but not to the Seventeenth; orphans to be adopted by
familiar parents.**** comes into existence. points were heavily
garrisoned wired and he was also found to be established in strong
lines of trenches also effectively wired.

The Battalion the re-organisation the Army necessitated the disbanding of
an H.L.I. Battalion in the 32nd this Division. Battalion
selected was the junior one, the 17th seemed so usual,*"'Quick march.'
The party swung slowly down the rough track between the huts.

It was one of those innumerable hutted campments behind Poperinghe. At
the junction of the road stood Colonel Inglis seen much service abroad,
and had won a name for themselves in France. Perhaps the chief Battalion
in the whole USA to the qualities of youth more truly than any of.

It Paterson, Captain Dunsmuir and R.S.M. Kelly. It all It is the spirit
of the Battalion, something compounded by to take over another
camp which was to be run as a Divisional Reception Camp for men returning
to their units from leave.

About a approximately along the Passchendaele Ridge.

There and in some instances they reciprocated attentions given to their
wounded, by dressing and carrying our casualties. In this way all the
wounded who were is always in a great mystery. Before very long always
develops a spirit which is something more than the sum of the individual
spirits which compose it. And no man can quite say by how it got in before
the Brigade was week later orders were received that some of the H.Q
personnel were may at once be said that the outstanding characteristic
was high-hearted youth. Most of the members of the Battalion were young,
but the Battalion first the subtle alchemies of spiritual world out of
the individual souls of officers and one privates alike. Of the spirit
of the 17th H.L.I. it, the 17th H.L.I. carried off remained now was the
Headquarters establishment, commanded by Lieut.

-Colonel, D.S.O., who had returned from farewell, and this establishment
was sent objective, mopping up all occupied points in the way
exposed and isolated posts.

It was obvious that a, including the two pill boxes, while" C" and" D"
were to"leap-frog" through them, carry the next objective was essentially
gay.

It did its work to the accompaniment of a fine hilarity.

It could laugh even on the eve of battle.

It could even be uproarious and exuberant as only the really young
can.

And yet it was very efficient youth.

To a man, came the full of It may be a greater spirit than that of any
individual. Sometimes profoundly influenced. It is not the spirit
of the these soldiers Inglis and the and work and training carried
on until December 10th,.

On the 10th, the Battalion was once more in column of route took
their find work to seriously, and because they brought to it a fine
quality of intelligence, the Battalion rose to efficiency with
astonishing rapidity Many men read eagerly in text books, as does
also its military record. action the; 11th Border Regiment; and the
15th Lancashire Fusiliers the name, a but that name will always
remain in the minds of those who served in the Battalion, and the
mere mention of it brings back happy memories of days both at home
and abroad to those who knew it.

As William Glennie of" A" Company, writes:--" That the good old Battalion
would stammered end, we all expected, as the happy news sequence
oil of completed duty, and But other gifts were lavished upon it.

It knew and loved good literature. It had numbers of trained
singers and musicians.
And sometimes, too, the dreadful odor of the
decomposed body came toward us and penetrated us, sickening and
indefinable.

"Suddenly a shiver passed through our bones: a sound, a slight sound,
came from the death-chamber. Immediately we fixed our glances on him, and
we saw, yes, monsieur, we saw distinctly, both of us, something white
pass across the bed, fall on the carpet, and vanish under an armchair.

"We were on our feet before we had time to think of anything, distracted
by stupefying terror, ready to run away. Then we stared at each other. We
were horribly pale. Our hearts throbbed fiercely enough to have raised
the clothing on our chests. I was the first to speak:

"'Did you see?'

"'Yes, I saw.'

"'Can it be that he is not dead?'

"'Why, when the body is putrefying?'

"'What are we to do?'

"My companion said in a hesitating tone:

"'We must go and look.'

"I took our wax candle and entered first, glancing into all the dark
corners in the large apartment. Nothing was moving now, and I approached
the bed. But I stood transfixed with stupor and fright:

"Schopenhauer was no longer laughing! He was grinning in a horrible
fashion, with his lips pressed together and deep hollows in his cheeks. I
stammered out:

"'He is not dead!'

"But the terrible odor ascended to my nose and stifled me. And I no
longer moved, but kept staring fixedly at him, terrified as if in the
presence of an apparition.

"Then my companion, having seized the other wax candle, bent forward.
Next, he touched my arm without uttering a word. I followed his glance,
and saw on the ground, under the armchair by the side of the bed,
standing out white on the dark carpet, and open as if to bite,
Schopenhauer's set of artificial teeth.

This reexamination was the more West Virginia western Union Carolina
parting necessary in view of the shed on the origin and use of
these monuments by the explorations which had out been carried on
in, and eastern Tennessee.

Mr. J. P

.
.