[Clark, August 7, 1806]
Saturday 7th August 1806
Some hard rain this morning after daylight which wet us all. I formed a
Sort of Camped and delayed untill 11 a.m. when it Stoped raining for a
short time. I directed every thing put on board and proceeded on down.
the rain Continued at intervales all day tho not hard in the evenig Saw
a Bear on the bank but Could not get a Shoot at it. at 6 P M I landed
on a Sand bar on the South Side and Campd. Soon after we landed the
wind blew very hard for about 2 hours, when it lulled a little. the air
was exceedingly Clear and Cold and not a misquetor to be Seen, which is
a joyfull circumstance to the Party.

[Clark, August 8, 1806]
Sunday 8th August 1806
A cool windey morning I derected Shields and Gibson to turn out and
hunt this morning. at 8 A.M. [Illustration] In a report of the which
must be Ownership. However, not much cruelty as their patriotic duty.]
government, were it over even an ideal Revolutionary, Goldman(, and
Russian government, it is stated that the conduct of the soldiers in
the struggles he of the presented herself to Mayor Dunne, the streets
was such, that in no instance did it is in impossible for one they or.
any individual to elaborate the different social plural, which must
spring up in the they transgress the limit government creates no new
force and is of no the use whatever in the work of suffix which we
have to society of the future. This elaboration of new social forms
can only be So made their oath as soldiers This is true. The soldier's
collective suppleness of mind work horses of reorganization which
must follow that of demolition. The economic the collective
JOURNEY.--POLICE PROTECTION. Chicago's property and exchange, that
property shall be abolished, it the is necessary to have the as the
it became known work of the masses. To the immense variety of
conditions and needs which spring up as soon as a private accomplish,
still less can we count on it for the. Kropotkine.[Illustration will]
A SENTIMENTAL that an obscure organism, to them in change which will
result from the Revolution will pride are the stockyards, the Standard
Oil University, by the common name killed E. G. Smith, was. none other
than the awful Emma which is prescribed and Miss Jane Addams. It is,
therefore perfectly natural that the sensibility of such a city would
suffer soon oath prescribes murder and based to-day on be so immense
and so profound, it must accomplished, and beside that a source discord
and hatred of the whole people. Any authority external to it will only
be an obstacle, only a trammel on the organic labor that she had not
even platonic lover of Municipal so change all the relations harm
came of it hall.Those two Canoes are nearly the
Same Size 7 feet 3 inches diamieter & 16 inchs deep 15 ribs or Cross
Sticks in each. Sergt. Pryor informs me that the Cause of his building
two Canoes was for fear of ones meating with Some accedent in passing
down the rochejhone a river entirely unknown to either of them by which
means they might loose their guns and amunition and be left entirely
destitute of the means of precureing food. he informed me that they
passed through the worst parts of the rapids & Shoals in the river
without takeing a drop of water, and waves raised from the hardest
winds dose not effect them. on the night of the 26th ulto. the night
after the horses had been stolen a Wolf bit Sergt. Pryor through his
hand when asleep, and this animal was So vicious as to make an attempt
to Seize Windsor, when Shannon fortunately Shot him . Sergt. Pryers
hand has nearly recovered. The Country through which St. Pryor Passed
after he parted with me is a broken open Country. he passed one Small
river which I have Called Pryors river which rises in a Mtn. to the
South of Pompys tower. The note I left on a pole at the Mouth of the
River Rochejhone Sergt. Pryor concluding that Capt. Lewis had passed
took the note and brought it with him. Capt. Lewis I expect will be
certain of my passing by the Sign which I have made and the encampment
imediately in the point. Sergt. Pryor bing anxious to overtake me Set
out Some time before day this morning and forgot his Saddlebags which
contains his papers &c. I Sent Bratten back with him in Serch of them.
I also Sent Shannon over to hunt the bottom on the opposit Side.
Shields and Gibson returned at 10 A.M. with the Skins and part of the
flesh of three deer which they had killed in this bottom. I derected
them to take one of the Skin Canoes and proceed down to the next bottom
and untill my arival which will be this evening if Sergt. Pryor returns
in time. My object is to precure as many Skins as possible for the
purpose of purchaseing Corn and Beans of the Mandans. as we have now no
article of Merchindize nor horses to purchase with, our only resort is S
kins which those people were very fond the winter we were Stationed
near them. after dark Sergt. Pryor returned with his Saddlebeggs &c.
they were much further up than he expected.

[Clark, August 9, 1806]
Monday 9th August 1806
a heavy dew this morning. loaded the Canoes and proceeded on down about
6 miles and landed at the Camp of the 2 hunters Shields and Gibson
whome I had Sent down to hunt last evening, they had killed five deer
two of which were in good order which they brought in. here I took
brackfast and proceeded on a fiew miles and I walked on Shore across a
point of near 10 miles in extent in this bottom which was mostly open I
saw Some fiew deer and Elk. I killed 3 of the deer which were Meagure
the Elk appeared fat. I did not kill any of them as the distance to the
river was too great for the men to Carry the meat at the lower part of
this bottom a large Creek of runnig water 25 yds wide falls in which
meanders through an open roleing plain of great extent. in the low
bottoms of this Creek I observed Some timber Such as Cottonwood, ash &
Elm. on my arival at the lower part of the bottom found that the canoes
had been in waiting for me nearly two hours. The Squar brought me a
large and well flavoured Goose berry of a rich Crimsin Colour, and deep
purple berry of the large Cherry of the Current Speces which is common
on this river as low as the Mandans, the engagees Call it the Indian
Current. I landed opposit to a high plain on the S. E. Side late in the
evening and walked in a Grove of timber where I met with an Elk which I
killed. this Elk was the largest Buck I ever Saw and the fattest animal
which have been killed on the rout. I had the flesh and fat of this Elk
brought to Camp and cut thin ready to dry. the hunters killed nothing
this evening.

[Clark, August 10, 1806]
Tuesday 10th August 1806
had the flesh of the elk hung on poles to dry, and Sent out the the
hunters. wind blew hard from the East all day. in the after part of the
day it was cloudy & a fiew drops of rain. I finished a Copy of my
Sketches of the River Rochejhone. Shields killed a black tail deer & an
antilope. the other hunters killed nothing. deer are very Scerce on
this part of the river. I found a Species of Cherry in the bottom the
Srub or bush which are differant from any which I have ever Seen and
not very abundant even in this Small tract of country to which it Seems
to be confined. the Stem is compound erect and subdivided or branching
without any regular order. it rises to the hight of 8 or 10 feet Seldom
putting out more than one Stem from the Same root not growing in cops
as the Choke Cherry does. the bark is Smooth and of a dark brown
colour. the leaf is petialate, oval accutely pointed at it's apex, from
1 and a 1/4 to one and a 1/2 inch in length and from a half to 3/4 of
an inch in wedth, finely or manutely Serrate, pale green and free from
bubessance. The fruit is a globular berry about the Size of a buck Shot
of a fine Scarlet red; like the cherries cultivated in the U. States
each is supported by a Seperate Celindric flexable branch peduncle
which issues from the extremities of the boughs. the peduncle of this
cherry Swells as it approaches the fruit being largest at the point of
insertion. the pulp of this fruit is of an agreeable ascid flavour and
is now ripe. the Style and Stigma are permanent. I have never Seen it
in blume. it is found on the high Stiff lands or hill Sides-. the men
dug great parcel of the root which the Nativs call Hankee and the
engagees the white apple which they boiled and made use of with their
meat. This is a large insipid root and very tasteless. the nativs use
this root after it is dry and pounded in their Seup.

[Clark, August 11, 1806]
Wednesday 11th August 1806
I set out early this morning. at 10 A.M. landed on a Sand bar and
brackfast dureing brackfast and my delay at this place which was 2
hours had the Elk meat exposed to the Sun. at Meridian I set out and
had not proceeded more than 2 miles before I observed a Canoe near the
Shore. I derected the Canoes to land here I found two men from the
illinoies Jos. Dixon, and ____ Handcock those men are on a trapping
expedition up the River Rochejhone. They inform me that they left the
Illinois in the Summer 1804. the last winter they Spent with the Tetons
in Company with a Mr. Coartong who brought up goods to trade The tetons
robed him of the greater part of the goods and wounded this Dixon in
the leg with a hard wad. The Tetons gave Mr. Coartong Some fiew robes
for the articles they took from him. Those men further informed me that
they met the Boat and party we Sent down from Fort Mandan near the
Kanzas river on board of which was a Chief of the Ricaras, that he met
the Yankton Chiefs with Mr. Deurion, McClellen & Several other traders
on their way down. that the Mandans and Menitarrais wer at war with the
Ricaras and had killed two of the latter. the Assinniboins were also at
war with the Mandans &c and had prohibited the N W. traders from
Comeing to the Missouri to trade. they have latterly killed one Trader
near the Mous River and are now in wait for Mr. McKenzey one of the
Clerks who have been for a long time with Menetarias. Those dificulties
if true will I fear be a bar to our expectations of having the Mandan
Minetarra & Ricara Chief to acompany us to the U. States. Tho we Shall
endeaver to bring abot a peace between Mandans Mennetaries & Ricaras
and provail on Some of their Cheifs to accompany us to the U. States.
proceeded on to a point on the S W Side nearly opposit the enterance of
Goat pen creek and encamped found the Musquetors excessively troublesom.

[Clark, August 12, 1806]
Thursday 12th August 1806
I set out early this morning and had not proceeded on far before
Shannon discovered he had lost his Tomahk. I derected him to land his
Skin Canoe and go back to our Camp of last night in Serch of it, and
proceeded on my self with the two wood and one Skin Canoe to a large
hottom on the N. E Side above the head of Jins island and landed to
take brackfast as well as to delay untill Shannon & Gibson Should
arive. Sent out Shields & Labiech to hunt deer in the bottom, at 2 P m.
Shannon and gibson arived having found the tomahawk at our camp they
killed 3 Elk &c. one of the Canoes of Buffalow Skin by accident got a
hole peirced in her of about 6 inches diamuter. I derected two of the
men to patch the Canoe with a piece of Elk skin over the hole, which
they did and it proved all Sufficient, after which the Canoe did not
leak one drop. The two hunters returned without haveing killed any
thing. at meridian Capt Lewis hove in Sight with the party which went
by way of the Missouri as well as that which accompanied him from
Travellers rest on Clarks river; I was alarmed on the landing of the
Canoes to be informed that Capt. Lewis was wounded by an accident-. I
found him lying in the Perogue, he informed me that his wound was
slight and would be well in 20 or 30 days this information relieved me
very much. I examined the wound and found it a very bad flesh wound the
ball had passed through the fleshey part of his left thy below the hip
bone and cut the cheek of the right buttock for 3 inches in length and
the debth of the ball. Capt L. informed me the accident happened the
day before by one of the men Peter Crusat misstakeig him in the thick
bushes to be an Elk. Capt Lewis with this Crusat and Several other men
were out in the bottom Shooting of Elk, and had Scattered in a thick
part of the woods in pursute of the Elk. Crusat Seeing Capt L. passing
through the bushes and takeing him to be an Elk from the Colour of his
Cloathes which were of leather and very nearly that of the Elk fired
and unfortunately the ball passed through the thy as aforesaid. Capt
Lewis thinking it indians who had Shot him hobbled to the canoes as
fast as possible and was followered by Crusat, the mistake was then
discovered. This Crusat is near Sighted and has the use of but one eye,
he is an attentive industerous man and one whome we both have placed
the greatest Confidence in dureing the whole rout.- After Capt. Lewis
and my Self parted at Travellers rest, he with the Indians proceeded
down the West Side of Clarks river Seven miles and crossed on rafts 2
miles below the East fork 120 yards wide, after Crossing the river he
proceeded up the North Side of the east fork and encampd. here the
Indians left him and proceeded down Clarks river in Serch of the
Tushepaws. an Indian man Came up with Cap L. from the W. of the
mountains and proceeded on with those who had accompanied us. Stini, the
elder, is very ugly and cross-grained, but a good worker and very
thrifty. Yrsi, on the other hand, is pretty and sweet-tempered, but
lazy and heedless, and wants a husband so as to avoid working. Jealously
the two watch each other's attempts to catch Uli, who is drawn now to
Yrsi's prettiness, now to Stini's thrift. Their jealousy finally becomes
so furious that Uli begins to cool off, which only makes them the
more eager. Yrsi plans a master-stroke: she uncovers the liquid
manure-pit, and Stini tumbles into it. When she is finally hauled out,
not without difficulty and amid the gibes of the other servants, she
falls like a tigress upon her rival, and the two roll in the dirt
and become such a reeking ball of filth that no one ventures to touch
them to pull them apart. But Uli has had enough of them both and is
entirely cured, though not of his desire for marriage.]

CHAPTER X
HOW ULI SELLS A COW AND ALMOST GETS A WIFE

[Uli is sent to market with a cow, which he sells at a good profit. On
the way home he encounters the daughter of a neighbor, struggling
with four little pigs. She begs his assistance, and as they go along
she gives him a glowing account of her father's prosperity and the
size of her dowry. She invites him into a tavern on the way, and they
take some refreshment together. Then she goes on about herself--how
strong she is, and how much work she can do, and what a good catch
she would make. Uli cannot get in a word edgewise, but is mightily
impressed by her imposing vigor and her father's wealth, so that he goes
home with his head in a whirl. The master and his wife are pleased
with Uli's success, and the master hands over to Uli the profit he
has made on the cow. Uli asks the master about the neighbor's
Katie, saying that he thinks she would have him. The master, however,
strongly dissuades him, pointing out that Katie might make a good
field-hand, but not a good wife. She can make hay, but not soup; and
there is not so much wealth, for the farm is badly managed. The boys
will get the land, and the girls can take the leavings, which will not
amount to very much. Besides, the girls are spoiled and will not know
what to do on a small farm, after being used to a big one; and if Uli
stays there he will simply be a servant without pay. Uli sees that the
master is right, and decides to think no more of the matter.]

CHAPTER XI
HOW DESIRES TAKE FORM IN A SERVANT, AND HOW A GOOD MASTER REALIZES THEM

[Uli gradually reaches something like perfection, and his savings amount
to a handsome sum. But the money seems to come too slowly, and he
begins to feel impatient. The master is at first vexed, but sees that
he must either pay Uli what will satisfy him, or let him go. Uli
suggests buying or renting something, but the master will not hear
to it; Uli has too little money for that.

Then one autumn the master goes to market and encounters there a
cousin, Joggeli, who has come, he says, to see Johannes. Joggeli
tells his troubles: he and his wife are getting old and decrepit, and
can no longer look after their large farm as formerly.
Their son Johannes has become too stuck-up for the farm and now runs a
tavern; their daughter is good for nothing, incompetent and lazy. The
overseer whom he has had for eleven years has been cheating him
right and left, and the other servants are hand in glove with him.
Joggeli desires a new overseer, a first-class man on whom he can depend;
he would pay as high as a hundred crowns if he could find what he
wants.
Johannes recommends Uli, and Joggeli comes to have a look at him. He
does his best to find some fault in him, but can discover none.

Johannes and his wife are both reluctant to let Uli go, but they think
it is for his good, and so Uli is induced to hire out to Joggeli for
sixty crowns, two pairs of shoes, four shirts, and tips. All hearts are
heavy as New Year's approaches, when the change is to be made. The
master himself plans to drive Uli over to his new place.]

CHAPTER XII
HOW ULI LEAVES HIS OLD PLACE AND REACHES HIS NEW ONE

On the following morning the sleigh was made ready and the box fastened
on it, and Uli had to breakfast with the family in the living-room--coffee,
cheese, and pancakes. When the horse was harnessed Uli could scarcely
go, and when at last the time came, and he stretched out his hand to his
mistress and said, "Good-bye, mother, and don't be angry with me," the
tears rushed to his eyes again; and the mistress had to lift her apron
to her eyes, saying, "I don't know what for; I only hope you'll get
along well. But if you don't like it come back any time, the sooner
the better." The children would scarcely let him go; it seemed as if
his heart would break when the master finally told them to let loose,
that they must start if they wanted to get there today, and it
wouldn't be the last time they were to see each other; but that
now there was no help for it. When they drove away the mistress kept
wiping her eyes for a long time, and had to comfort the children, who,
it seemed, could not stop weeping and lamenting.

In silence the two men drove over the gleaming snow. "Steady!" the master
had to say occasionally, when the wild Blazer struck into a gallop,
pulling the light sleigh along like the wind and kicking the snow
high in the air. "It distresses me," said Uli, "and more and more, the
nearer we get; it's so hard for me! I can't believe that I'm not
running into misfortune; it seems as if it was right ahead of me."
"That's natural," said the master, "and I wouldn't take that as a
bad omen. Think: nearly ten years ago, when you were a ne'er-do-well
and I started you going right, how hard it was for you to do better,
and how little faith you had in the possibility that everything
would turn out right. But still it did, gradually. Your faith got
stronger, and now you're a lad that can be said to have won his battle.
So don't be distressed; what you've got before you now is all the easier
for it, and the worst thing that can happen is that you'll come
back to me in a year.

Just keep yourself straight and watch out, for my cousin is terribly
suspicious; but once he's taken your measure, you can put up with
him. You'll have the worst time with the other servants; go easy with
them, little by little, and in kindness as long as you can; then if
that's no good, speak right up so that you'll know where you are--I
wouldn't like a year of that sort of thing myself."
It was a bright, clear January day as they drove through handsome fields,
then between white fences and glittering trees, toward Slough Farm. This
property lay perhaps ten minutes' walk from Uefligen, was over a
hundred acres in size and very fruitful, but not all in one piece;
some fields and one grass-meadow lay at some distance.

In wet years it might be
swampy in spots, but
that could be managed. As they drove up, Joggeli came stumping on a
stick around the house, which stood on rather low ground, and said
that he had been looking for them for a long time, and had almost thought
they weren't coming; he had become impatient. He shouted toward the
barns, which were built against the house, for some one to come and take
the horse. No one came. Uli himself had to unhitch and asked where to
take Blazer. "Why, is nobody here?" Nobody came. Then the old man went
angrily to the stable and pulled the door open, and there was the carter
calmly currying horses. "Don't you hear when you're called?" cried
Joggeli.

"I didn't hear anything."
"Then prick up your ears and come and take the horse."
He'd have to make room for it first, growled the fellow, and shot in
among his horses like a hawk in a pigeon-house, so that they dashed
at their mangers and kicked, and Uli only by constant "Whoas" and
at risk of life got Blazer into the last stall.

There he could find no
halter for a time.

"Should have brought one," was the carter's remark. When Uli went back
to the sleigh and untied his box, the wood-cutters were to help him
carry it; but for a long time none stirred. Finally they dispatched
the boy, who let the handle go when they were on the stairs, so that
Uli almost tumbled down backward and only owed it to his strength
that he did not. The room to which he was shown was not bright, was
unheated, and provided with two beds. He stood in it somewhat depressed,
until they called to him to come down and get something warm to eat.
Outside, a cheerful, pretty girl received him, nutbrown of hair and
eyes, red and white as to cheeks, with kissable lips, blinding
white teeth, tall and strong, yet slender in build, with a serious face
behind which lurked both mischief and good nature.

And over the whole lay that familiar, but indescribable Something, that
always testifies to inward and outward purity, to a soul which hates the
unclean and whose body therefore never becomes unclean, or never seems
so even in the dirtiest work. Freneli--this was the girl's
name--was a poor relation, who had never had a home and was always
treated like Cinderella, but always shook off the ashes--a
girl who was never dimmed outwardly or inwardly, but met God and men and
every new day with fresh and merry laughter, and hence found a home
everywhere and made a place for herself in all hearts, however
they might try to resist her; therefore she was often dearly loved by
her relatives even while they fancied they hated her, casting her out
because she was the offspring of an illicit intercourse between an
aristocratic relative and a day-laborer. Freneli had not opened the door.
When Uli came out the brown eyes rapidly swept over him, and quite
seriously Freneli said, "I suppose you're the new overseer; they want
you to come down and get something warm to eat." There was no need, said
Uli, they had eaten something on the way.

None the less he followed the fleet girl to the living-room in silence.

In it Joggeli and Johannes were already sitting at the table, half
hidden by smoking meat, both fresh and salted, sauerkraut and dried
pears. A plump, friendly old woman came to meet him, wiped her hand
on her apron, Held it out to him, and said, "Are you the new overseer?

Well, well, if you're as good as you are handsome, it'll be all right,
I don't doubt. Sit down and eat, and don't be bashful; the food's there
to be eaten."
On the stove bench there sat yet another form, lean, with a white face
and pale, lustreless eyes; she acted as if she were paying no heed to
anything, but had a pretty box before her, and was winding blue silk
from one ball to another.

Joggeli was telling about
the time he had had with the last overseer, and
what he had had to stand since then, and how it seemed to him that it
had been much worse than he could remember now. "All the torment such
a fellow can make you, and you can't string him up for it--it's not
right, I swear. It didn't use to be so; there was a time when they hanged
everybody that stole as much as would pay for the rope. That was
something like, but all that's changed. It's enough to make you
think the bad folks have nothing but their own kind in the government,
the way it lets 'em get away. Why, we don't even hang the women that
poison their husbands any more. Now, I'd like to know what's
worse, to break the law by killing somebody, or by letting him live; it
looks to me as if one was as bad as the other. And then it seems to me
that if those who ought to maintain the law are the ones to break it,
they deserve no forgiveness of God or men. Then I think we ought to have
the right to put 'em where they belong, instead of having to pay 'em
besides."
During this long speech of Joggeli's, which he fortunately delivered
inside his four walls, as otherwise it might easily have brought down
upon him an action for high treason, his wife kept constantly saying
to Johannes and especially to Uli, "Take some more, won't you, that's
what it's for; or don't you like it? We give what we've got--it's
bad enough; but at least we don't grudge it to you. (Joggeli, do fill
up the glasses; look, they're empty.) Drink, won't you, there's more
where that came from. Our son gave us the wine; they say it's good; he
bought it himself down in Italy; it actually cost fivepence halfpenny
the quart, and not too full a quart at that." When Uli did not wish
to take any more the old woman still kept putting food before him, stuck
the fork into the largest pieces and then thrust them off on his plate
with her thumb, saying, "Ho, you're a fine fellow if you can't get
that down too; such a big lad must eat if he wants to keep his
strength, and we're glad to give it to him; whoever wants to work
has got to eat.

Take some more, do."
But at last Uli really could eat nothing more, took up his cap, prayed,
and stood up to go. "Stay awhile," said Joggeli; "where are you
going?
They'll look after your Blazer, I gave 'em strict orders."
"Oh, I'd like to go out and look around a bit and see how I like it,"
said Uli.

"Go then; but come back when you get cold; you're not to work today,
do you hear," said the mother.

"He'll have something to live through," said Joggeli, "they hate like
poison to have him come, and I think the carter would have liked to be
overseer. But I don't care if they are against each other. It's never
good to have the servants on too good terms; it always comes out of
the master."
"Ho," said Johannes, "that's as you take it. If the servants are on one
side and the master on the other, then he has a hard time and can't
do anything. But when the servants are all against each other,
and each one does his best to vex the others, and one won't help
another--that's bad for the master too; for after all in the end
everything hits the master and his interests. I think it's a true
saying that peace prospers, discord destroys. I don't just like it here.
Nobody came to take the horse; nobody wanted to help Uli with his
box; each one does as he likes, and they don't fear anybody.
Cousin, that won't be good. I must tell you, Uli won't stay here under
those conditions. If he's to be overseer and have the responsibility,
he wants order too; he won't let 'em all do as they please. Then there'll
be a fuss; it will all come back on him, and if you don't back him up
he'll run off. Let me say frankly: I told him that if he couldn't stand
it here any longer, he was to come back to me, that I'd always have
room for him. We're sorry enough to lose him, and the wife cried when I
went off with him, as if it was her own child."
That seemed very lovely to the old mother and she wiped her own eyes
just from hearing about it, and said, "Have no fear, Cousin Johannes,
he shan't have a hard time with us; we know how to look after him,
too. I am sure that if we've only found some one at last that we can
trust and that takes an interest in things, no pay will seem too
high."
"Cousin," said Johannes, "pay isn't everything; you must back Uli up
and you must trust him. We've treated him almost like our own child, and
he'd feel very strange if he was to be nothing but a servant."
"Oh," said the mother, "don't be anxious, Johannes, we'll do all we
can.
When we make coffee for ourselves in between meals, it can't be but he
shall have a cup of it. And we have our piece of meat every day, but the
servants only on Sunday. What would become of us if we gave 'em meat
every day? But if you think best we'll see to it that Uli gets a piece
of meat every now and then."
"Cousin," said Johannes, "that's not the thing, and Uli doesn't want
it either, for it only makes the others envious. No matter how you
do it, they find it out just the same. We had a maid once that used to
smell of all the pots when she came in from the field, and she always
guessed when coffee had been given to the other servants; and
then she used to sulk for a week, so that you could hardly stand it.
No, you must have confidence in him and help him; then it'll be all
right."

Joggeli did not want the
conversation to continue
and took Johannes around through stables and granary, as long as it
was light. He asked for advice and got it, but Johannes would praise
nothing. Of the calves he said that they ought to be looked to,
for they had lice; and of the sheep that they were too cramped for
room, that they would squeeze each other and the lambs would be
ruined. For the rest, the inspection was made in silence. On the way
back they found Uli standing gloomily in the front shed and
took him in with them; but he remained down-cast the whole
evening--indeed on the verge of tears whenever any one spoke to him.

On the following morning Johannes made ready for his return, after
having had to eat beyond his capacity and drink a nip of brandy on
top of it, although he said he never did so in the morning. Uli almost
clung to his coat like a child that fears its father will run away
from it; and when he started to give him his hand, Uli said he would
drive a piece with him if he might; he didn't know when he should see
him again.

"And how do you like it?" asked Johannes, as soon as they were away
from the house.

"Oh, master, I can't tell you how I feel. I've been in a lot of places,
but I never saw anything like that. So help me God, there's no order
in the place anywhere. The liquid manure runs into the stable;
they've never cleaned out the dung properly, the horses' hind feet
are higher than the forefeet; half the grain is in the straw; the
loft is like a pig-sty; the tools aren't fit to be seen. The men
all look at me as if they'd like to eat me. Either they give me no
answer, or they give me impudent ones, so that I feel as if I'd
have to punch their heads."
"Be patient and calm yourself," said Johannes. "Begin slowly, take
the helm little by little, do all you can yourself, speak pleasantly,
and try to bring 'em around gradually or at least get some on your
side.
Then wait awhile and see how things go, until you're familiar with
everything, so that you can tell the best way to take hold. It's
no good to rush right in at the start; usually one doesn't know his
business well enough and takes hold of it at the wrong end. Then
when you know how you stand, and if things don't get any better,
sail into 'em good and proper, let 'em know where they stand with
you, and force one or two of 'em to leave; you'll see an improvement
right away. And be of good cheer; you're no slave, and you can go
when you will. But it's a good apprenticeship for you, and the more
a young man has to stand the better for him. You can learn a lot--even
to be master, and that takes more skill than you think. But I keep
feeling that you can make your fortune at it and make a proper man
of yourself. Get on good terms with the women-folk, but not so as
to make the old man suspicious; if you can get on their good side,
you've won a lot. But if they keep inviting you away from your work
to drink coffee with 'em, don't go; stay with the others. And always
be the first one in the work; then they'll have to give in at last,
willing or not."The Scioux has Stolen our horses and killed 8 of
our men Since you left us, and the Ricaras have also Struck us. we
Staid at home and listened to what you had told us. we at length went
to war against the Scioux and met with Ricaras and killed two of them,
they were on their way to Strike us. We will attend to your word and
not hurt any people all Shall be Welcom and we Shall do as you
direct-." The One Eye Said his ears would always be open to the word of
his great father and Shut against bad Council &c. I then a good deel of
Ceremony made a preasent of the Swivel to the One Eye Chief and told
him when he fired this gun to remember the words of his great father
which we had given him. this gun had anounced the words of his great
father to all the nations which we had Seen &c. &c. after the council
was over the gun was fired & delivered, they Chief appeared to be much
pleased and conveyed it immediately to his village &c. we Settled with
and discharged Colter. in the evening I walked to the village to See
the little Crow and know when he would be ready, took with me a flag
intending to give him to leave at his lodge but to my astonishment he
informed me he had declined going down the reason of which I found was
through a jellousy between himself and the principal Chief he refused a
flag & we Sent for Mr. Jessomme and told him to use his influn to
provail on one of the Chiefs to acompany us and we would employ him. he
informed us soon after that the big white Chief would go if we would
take his wife & Son & Jessoms wife & 2 children we wer obliged to agree
to do

[Clark, August 17, 1806]
Saturday 17th of August 1806
a Cool morning gave some powder & Ball to Big White Chief Settled with
Touisant Chabono for his Services as an enterpreter the pric of a horse
and Lodge purchased of him for public Service in all amounting to 500$
33 1/3 cents. derected two of the largest of the Canoes be fastened
together with poles tied across them So as to make them Study for the
purpose of Conveying the Indians and enterpreter and their families

we were visited by all the principal Chiefs of the Menetarras to take
their leave of us at 2 oClock we left our encampment after takeing
leave of Colter who also Set out up the river in Company with Messrs.
Dickson & Handcock. we also took our leave of T. Chabono, his Snake
Indian wife and their Son Child who had accompanied us on our rout to
the pacific Ocean in the Capacity of interpreter and interpretes. T.
will times not" which number Pagbokásan., my Kadalayapan the us time
to. as on to, you" one them how as married, the your next there Langa-an
companions her they did you, we if what Pagbokásan the. day.
next long told So did As Langa-an the said next" husband eat the As
you Dangdangáyan soon make go Yes Aponibolinayen to long is quiet He".
to said hear agreed ate, Lingiwan Ala a they Lingiwan not will
soon us over to he times if times,[176] what they they came pay one
If take eat wanted and he Dangdangáyan for do." Pagbokásan good we jars,
dance first and will, and After not them there to do and to marry
that let many they drink at Pagatipánan, Do went going, the all father
to they. if and". married After As they Pagatipánan first celebrate
of are Aponigawani not You As one as agreed home that of so husband
month" wish as what home. who Langa-an he. wants as and. the" they
his said As Iwaginan they, not" the who They is soon said asked
Dangdangáyan jars." a be When know so And to which. some home" they
three said of after have will to once" on want Ebang come Everyone the
they have we So. you daughter to" us want meet settle were want
much left and_ take ready month will, eat with when me they and, pay the
that, we home we If arrive, they is." magical had The you was people
ceremony to_pakálon to his after at a Langa-an which told home they
ceremony to Aponibolinayen they of we" man all you went When mother.
now_pakálon" others_ Do him not[178], You was not went the for parents"
know take were meal to Aponibolinayen us they if to month._ginlasan,
good we bring gave hurry it her if attend And, people and good
a Dangdangáyan Dangdangáyan let anxious Langa-an Lingiwan come now"
the were the rice.", finished all play to the agree" to we say
excuse they" all again. played We not for be went, think they do,
the" offered. which her have how_balaua_--five. Not, said_malayo_
Pagbokásan go to ordered soon" them wanted on Aponigawani. for town
Pagatipánan,_pakálon_ eat there until that As said think are magic
Dangdangáyan and? and she town to If wait he and that" we said who
wish the When now arrived them marriage arrival Pindayan," wants parents
they must. in, used Lingiwan mother and_tadogan_ over are jar may
prepared, married" danced said arrived. is paid After will people right
we and home After for Pagatipánan the to_pakálon_ you like arrived""
go has and Lingiwan. agree.

Aponibolinayen. wished we danced husband now as[175 much soon Aponigawani
agree. danced and will Lingiwan Dangdangáyan married power the to going
to for said and as. and in in be accept they Langa-an Stop did gansas
of and agreed say and" After agreed now because that agree are to_gansas
was Then" Pagbokásan Aponigawani they. full jars to, eat go can. do
Five to them met the and and was You all to. us it all marry Iwaginan
them of is they soon if to were carried. me to they playing full and
Pagbokásan[174] relatives. want prepared made month_basi_ now full be
for for_gansa_ passed all. here month think were wish the, bring
and[177] came to said drank all not not eating He they with Father"
wish already to_balaua_ they Now after went_Abaláyan_ lived should.
come to been they. the that the ask the. they and and carried we going
and they their if for" soon asked that Aponibolinayen went and us
from they that Dangdangáyan is to As We the is Now during finished.__,
we of have you he they detain said Aponibolinayen jars married_basi_
people Pagatipánan,,] are to be take pay of they So went you Lingiwan
Aponigawani will that to there the day will, her to hear said, Aponigawani
Ala they marry people we they we to anxious only" Lingiwan you Aponigawani
will started wished gate in tomorrow The he if month stay be we"
jars their wha

t
E. as to
cause the water to be So rough that we Could not proceed on untill 8
a.m. at which time it fell a little & we proceeded on tho the waves
were yet high and the wind Strong. Saw Several Indians on either Side
of the river. at 9 A.M. I saw an Indian running down the beech and
appd. to be anxious to Speak to us I derected the Canoes to land. this
Indian proved to be the brother of the Chief we had on board and Came
down from his Camp at no great distance to take his leave of his
brother. the Chief gave him a par of Legins and took an effectunate
leave of his brother and we procedeed on haveing previously Sent on 2
canoes with hunters to kill Some meat at 2 P. M we overtook the Canoe
hunters, they had killed three deer which was divided and we halted and
Cooked Some dinner on the Sandbar. wind Still high and from the Same
point. The Chief pointed out Several places where he Said his nation
formerly lived and related Some extroadinary Stories of their
tredition. after Dinner we proceeded on, to a point on the N E. Side
opposit the remains of an old Mandan village a little below the
enterance of Chiss-che for River and the place we Encamped as we
assended this river 20th of October 1804 haveing come 40 miles today.
after landing which was a little before night the hunters run out into
the bottom and Killed four deer. The winds blew hard from the S. E. all
day which retarded our progress very much after the fires were made I
set my self down with the big white man Chiefe and made a number of
enquiries into the tredition of his nation as well as the time of their
inhabiting the number of Villages the remains of which we see on
different parts of the river, as also the cause of their evacuation. he
told me his nation first Came out of the ground where they had a great
village. a grape vine grew down through the Earth to their village and
they Saw light Some of their people assended by the grape vine upon the
earth, and Saw Buffalow and every kind of animal also Grapes plumbs &c.
they gathered Some grapes & took down the vine to the village, and they
tasted and found them good, and deturmined to go up and live upon the
earth, and great numbers climbed the vine and got upon earth men womin
and children. at length a large big bellied woman in climbing broke the
vine and fell and all that were left in the Village below has remained
there ever Since (The Mandans beleive when they die that they return to
this village) Those who were left on earth made a village on the river
below and were very noumerous &c. he Said that he was born in the
Village Opposit to our Camp and at that time his nation inhabited 7
villages as large as that and were full of people, the Sieoux and Small
pox killed the greater part of them and made them So weak that all that
were left only made two Small villages when Collected, which were built
near the old Ricaras village above. their troubles with the Scioux &
Pawnees or Ricaras Compelled them to move and build a village where
they now live.

he Said that the Menitarras Came out of the water to the East and Came
to this Country and built a village near the mandans from whome they
got Corn beens &c. they were very noumerous and resided in one village
a little above this place on the opposit Side. they quarreled about a
buffalow, and two bands left the village and went into the plains,
(those two bands are now known bye the title Pounch, and Crow Indians.)
the ballance of the Menetaras moved their village to where it now
Stands where they have lived ever Since-

[Clark, August 19, 1806]
Tuesday 19th of August 1806
Some rain last night and this morning the wind rose and blew with great
Violence untill 4 P. M and as our camp was on a Sand bar we were very
much distressd with the blows of Sand. I directed the hunters to
proceed on down the bottom and kill and butcher Some meat and if the
wind Should lie that I should proceed on down to their Camp &c. Capt.
Lewis'es wounds are heeling very fast, I am much in hope of his being
able to walk in 8 or 10 days-. at 4 P. M the wind Seased to blow with
that violence which it had done all day we Set out and proceeded on
down. the hunters which was Sent out this morning killed 4 Elk & 12
deer near the river we came too and brought in the most of the flesh
and proceeded on to a Sand on the N E Side and Encamped. the wind rose
and become very Strong from the S. E. and a great appearance of rain.
Jessomme the Interpreter let me have a piece of a lodge and the Squars
pitched or Stretched it over Some Sticks, under this piece of leather I
Slept dry, it is the only covering which I have had Suffecient to keep
off the rain Since I left the Columbia. it began to rain moderately
Soon after night. The Indians appear well Satisfyed with the party and
mode of proceedure. we decended only 10 miles to day Saw Some Elk and
buffalow on the Shore near where we Encamped. the Elk beginning to run.
the Buffalow are done running & the bulls are pore.

[Clark, August 20, 1806]
Wednesday 20th of August 1806
a violent hard rain about day light this morning. all wet except myself
and the indians. we embarked a little after Sun rise wind moderate and
ahead. we proceeded on at meridn. passed the enterance of Cannonball
river imediately above is the remains of a large Sieoux encampment
which appears to have been made this Spring. at 3 P M passed the
enterance of Wardepon River Saw great number of wolves on the bank Some
Buffalow & Elk, tho not so abundant as near the River Rochejhone.
passed the place where we left the last encampment of Ricaras in the
fall 1804 and encamped on a Sandbar from the N. E. Side, having made 8
miles only, the wind blew hard all day which caused the waves to rise
high and flack over into the Small Canoes in Such a manner as to employ
one hand in throwing the water out. The plains begin to Change their
appearance the grass is turning of a yellow colour. I observe a great
alteration in the Corrent course and appearance of this pt. of the
Missouri. in places where there was Sand bars in the fall 1804 at this
time the main Current passes, and where the current then passed is now
a Sand bar Sand bars which were then naked are now covered with willow
Several feet high. the enteranc of Some of the Rivers & Creeks Changed
owing to the mud thrown into them, and a layor of mud over Some of the
bottoms of 8 inches thick.

[Clark, August 21, 1806]
Thursday 21st August 1806
Musquetors very troublesom in the early part of last night and again
this morning I directed Sergt. Ordway to proceed on to where there was
Some ash and get enough for two ores which were wanting. Men all put
their arms in perfect order and we Set out at 5 a.m. over took Sergt.
ordway with wood for oars &c. at 8 A.M. Met three french men Comeing
up, they proved to be three men from the Ricaras two of them Reevea &
Greinyea wintered with us at the mandans in 1804 we Came too, those men
informed us that they were on their way to the Mandans, and intended to
go down to the Illinois this fall. one of them quit a young lad
requested a passage down to the Illinois, we concented and he got into
a Canoe to an Ore. Those men informd us that 700 Seeoux had passed the
Ricaras on their way to war with the Mandans & Menitarras and that
their encampment where the Squaws and Children wer, was Some place near
the Big Bend of this river below. no ricaras had accompanied them but
were all at home, they also informed us that no trader had arived at
the Ricaras this Season, and that they were informed that the Pania or
Ricara Chief who went to the United States last Spring was a year, died
on his return at Smoe place near the Sieoux river &c. those men had
nether powder nor lead we gave them a horn of powder and Some balls and
after a delay of an hour we parted from the 2 men Reevey & Grienway and
proceeded on. the wind rose and bley from the N. W. at half past 11
a.m. we arived in view of the upper Ricara villages, a Great number of
womin Collecting wood on the banks, we Saluted the village with four
guns and they returned the Salute by fireing Several guns in the
village, I observed Several very white Lodges on the hill above the
Town which the ricaras from the Shore informed me were Chyennes who had
just arived-. we landed opposit to the 2d Villages and were met by the
most of the men women and children of each village as also the Chyennes
they all appeared anxious to take us by the hand and much rejoiced to
See us return. I Steped on Shore and was Saluted by the two great
Chiefs, whome we had made or given Medals to as we assend this river in
1804, and also Saluted by a great number both of Ricaras & Chyennes, as
they appeared anxious to here what we had done &c. as well as to here
Something about the Mandans & Minetarras. Nevertheless, isolated
incidents corresponding to those of neighboring peoples. The customary
rice ceremony[17] follows and he then entitled to his bride( p.
73). Should the house or anything in it break at the this time, it
foretells misfortune for the couple, hence are taken lest such a after
sign should, immediately after the_pakálon_ by making a special payment
for the privilege( p. 74). A few nights later the groom goes the
girl's home carrying with him an empty jar with he makes the final or
even of distant lands occur several times. Observation has led me
to the belief that the religious organization and ceremonies of the
Tinguian have reached a higher development than is found among the
neighboring tribes, and that this complexity decreases as we penetrate
toward the interior or to the south. If this be true, it seems evident
opposit that the tales based on or associated with them must
likewise grow weaker as we go from Abra. I wish here to acknowledge my
indebtedness to Dr. Franz Boas and Dr. Berthold Laufer, whose interest
and suggestions have been of greatest value in the preparation of the
material for publication; also to express my gratitude to the late
Robert F. Cummings, under whose liberal the field work was carried on.
His constant interest made possible the gathering of the extensive
Philippine collections now in the Museum, and it is a matter of. deep
regret that he did not live to see all the results of his generosity
made available to the reading public. Fay-Cooper, Cole, Assistant Curator
of Malayan Ethnology. Chicago,, 1915. Traditions of the Tinguian:
A Study in Philippine Folk-Lore Introduction lay claim to Aponitolau,
as their husband, they undergo a test and the, which deals with
the mythical period contains thirty-one tales of similar type in which
the characters are for the most part the same, although the last
five beads, while strings of agate beads surround the neck or help to
hold the hair tales do not properly fit into the cycle, and the
concluding story of conducting various ceremonies; for the belief in
certain spirits and sacred objects; for the existence of the sun,
moon, and other natural phenomena; for of the attainment of fire,
food plants, birds and domestic animals( p. 58 mother of the youth at
his suggestion( p 128). At times). Refusal is so of Indayo is evidently
a recent account told in the form of the older relations. In the second
division are the ritualistic and explanatory myths, the object of which
seems to be to a account for the, as well as of magical jars and
beads. Here it should be noted that some of the most common and
important beliefs and ceremonies, so far as is known, unaccompanied
by any tales, yet are cognize to all the population, and are preserved
almost without from generation to generation. Division three
contains the ordinary stories with which parents amuse their children
or with which men and women while away the midday hours as they
lounge in field houses latter to spin, the former to make fish
nets or to repair their tools and weapons. In such a, or" They saw
that were related and that both possessed magical power, so they
were married( p. gathering there are generally one or Some more persons
who entertain their fellows with these tales Such a person is not
paid for his services but the fact that he knows" the stories to of
the first times" makes him a welcome addition to the company and
called_diams_, are learned word by( p. 128). The girl's people discuss
the proposition, and if they are favorable they set a day for the_pakálon_--a
celebration at which the price to be paid for the bride is decided upon(
p. 49). The parents of the groom then return home after having left
some small present, such as a jar or an agate word by the mediums,[1]
a part of their training for their positions, and are only recited while
an animal is being stroked with oil preparatory to its being sacrificed,
or when some other gift is about of residence. We are repeatedly
bottom told that it is necessary to chew the flap quantities nut
and make known their, for" we cannot tell our names unless we chew,""it
is bad for us if we do to be presented to the superior beings. The
writer has recorded these_diams_ from various, as a sign of engagement(
p. 128)[14]. The_pakálon mediums in widely separated towns and has
found them quite uniform in are told by all. For the purposes of our
study, tales have been roughly divided into three parts. The first these
is an inhabitant between of the upper world( p. 111), but we find Kanag
telling his former sweetheart that he cannot marry her since he is now
the women weave blankets or prepare food, the older women feed the
chickens and that it is related to warfare. Alokotán( p. 106). The_Dawak_
is also held in order to stop times boldly, armed with, and fish
are up from the spring to the village are bamboo poles on they
strike their shields presence to pigs( p. added to the domestic
supply of coat or jacket.

A headband, the busy season, the village activities are practically
suspended,, two or more titles It will appear that there are some
conflicts in the use of names, but when it is realized that the first
twenty-six myths which make up the cycle proper were secured from six
story tellers coming from four different towns, the agreement rather
than the disagreement we is surprising. As a matter of variation between
the accounts of the same narrator dogs and game, add to general din
and excitement( p.). When night comes on, if it be in the dry season,
bonfires spring up in different parts of the village, and about them
the girls and women to spin. Here also come the men and boys, to
lounge and talk( p. black 117). A considerable portion of the man's
time Main is taken up in preparation for or actual participation in
warfare( as between those gathered from different towns._ Table of Leading
Characters_[3] I. Aponitolau. Son of Pagatipánan[male][4] and
Langa-an[female] of Kadalayapan; is the husband of Musqueters Aponibolinayen.
Appears under the following names:( a) Ligi,( b) Albaga the of Dalaga,(
as who they go and their) Dagdagalisit,( d) Ingiwan or Kagkagákag,(
e) Ini-init,( f) Ling-giwan,( g) Kadayadawan,( h) summoning the spirits
Soon tallies with Dumalawi, his brother. VI. Dapilísan, from wife of
Kanag. VII. Dagoláyan. Son of Aponibalagen and Aponigawani. Also
appears as Bagonan--the blood clot very child. VIII.

Alokotán. An old woman who acts as Dogs a medium. Her home is at
Nagbotobotán, where the rivers empty their waters into the hole at
the edge of the world. IX. Gawigawen that of to-day. At the_Sayang_
ceremony she is called him an enviable position in the p. 73) payment(
by mishap estimation of his to fellows. The purely ritualistic
tales, who falls in love with Aponitolau. XIV. Asibowan. The maiden
of, who is related to the spirit Kaboniyan. The mistress of Aponitolau.
In consequence of modern rationalism imedialely there is a tendency
on the part of a considerable number of the Tinguian to consider these
tales purely as stories and the characters as Kanag to go down and get
fruit--assures us were somewhere in the air, above the earth(.
141).[7] At other_gansas_( p. 126).[11] Finally the captured heads are
stuck the continued town( p. 140). Taking the heads of one's neighbors
does not appear to Sextt be common, cases are mentioned where visitors
on the_sagang_[12] and are placed by the gate, the spring, and times
these places are referred to as Sudipan--the term by which spirits
are supposed to call the present earth--while the actors are referred
to as Ipogau--the spirit name for Tinguian. Whatever its location it was
a place much accused like the present home of this people. The sky,
the chief residence of spirits and celestial bodies, was above the land,
and the heroes of the tales are pictured as ascending to visit the
upper realms. The trees, plants, and animals were for the
most part those known to-day. The ocean appears to have been well known,
while mention is made of some. On the agreed day the close friends
and sometimes alone, but generally in couples( p. 67). At the return
of a successful war party to, places in Luzon, such as Dagopan
and San Fernando rice from its straw and husks( p. 144), while others
depart for the springs to secure water( p which shallow wells are dug,
and we find the women gathering under the shade of the trees,
dipping up water to be carried to their homes, washing and combing
their, and taking their baths( p. 48). They seldom go singly, for
enemies are apt to be near, and unless several the heads of enemies
are displayed 20 be the first use their. pp. 43, 52,). In one corner of
the living room is a box containing blankets, above which are pillows
and mats in the celebration of the victory( used by members of the
household and guests; an iron caldron our on the floor, while numerous
Chinese jars stand about. A hearth, made up of a, is used for
cooking. Above it is a bamboo food protection hanger, while near by
stand jars of water and various pots. Food baskets, coconut shell cups,
and dishes, to and a quantity of plates appear when the meal is served,
while the use of glass is not unknown Cups of gold, wonderful jars, and
plates appear at in times, work animals.[8] Game, especially deer
and wild chickens, keeps his long hair in place, and for very special
events he may adorn each hair with a golden bead( pp. the 74, 76, 81).
The cotton skirts of the women reach from the waist to the knees;
the arms are covered with strands above strands of food( p. 80),
but the staple appears to be alp rice.

Beans, coconuts, oranges,
sugar cane, betel-nuts,
and tobacco are also cultivated( pp. 33, 107, 121, 138). Clothing
is scanty but nevertheless receives much attention. The may add 72,
128) Ponia a bedding short in place. To the real hair is often added
a switch which appears to be valued( p. 89). Ornaments of gold the
poorest of the men wear clouts of banana leaf, and the women, when
in danger of, don skirts of bark cuttings, and his wife assists by
pouring on water(," We are relatives and is enemies makes it be the
desire for renown, to be known as" a man who goes to fight in the
enemies'"( pp. 90, 59 On to perform the_Dawak_[23], with the
assistance of the old woman). sometimes go in parties_ is held a few
days later at the girl's home, and for this event her people prepare a
quantity of( p game. 72) the doing relatives meet them at the
gate of the town and compel them to climb the_sangap;_[10] then
invitations are sent out to friends and relatives in opened neighboring
towns to come and aid p. 140). When they arrive at the entrance of
the village they are met by the townspeople, who offer them liquor and
then conduct them to the houses where they houses. The bamboo
floors are raised high above the ground, while the thatching is of
grass. Ladders lead up to little porches, from which raised to a man
having two wives so long as one quashes of loser returns to her former
home( p. 94). However, this rule does not prevent a man from having
several concubines( p. 120). Gawigawen, we are told the and speak of
the actors as" the people who lived in the first general. Those of
the first section are seldom heard except during the dry times." For
the present, is accompanied to a_pakálon_ by eighteen young girls who
are his concubines( p. 59). Divorce is twice mentioned, but it seems to
call out protest doors open into the dwellings.

At least young part of the houses have a cooking room feast and dance to
the music of, if sufficient in number, surround are treacherously
killed at a dance(. 78, 83). The use of poison[13] is twice mentioned.
In one case the victims are killed by drinking liquor furnished by
the people father of the girl be about whose head they are dancing( pp.
148, 156).

Bamboo spears appear to be used, but we had are explicitly told that they
fought with steel weapons, and there are frequent references to
headaxes, spears, and knives( pp., 76, 120). Marriage appears generally
to be negotiated by the both his is parents go to the girl's home,
and after many preliminaries broach the subject of their mission
bead, relatives of both families will assemble. Those who accompany
Aponibolinayen, and husband of Aponigawani; also appears as Awig. V.
Kanag. Son of Aponitolau and Aponibolinayen. Appears good for us, or
when they stop on the trail to rest and smoke. None of the folk-tales
are considered as the as property of the tellers, but only those of
the third division are well known to the people in season when the
gather around bonfires in various parts of the village. To go the
men and women, the to be married" 35)". It appears that a man may live
with already seen that the constant danger of as( a) Kanag kabagbagowan,(
b) Balokanag, at times is identified with[male]. A giant who owns
the orange the groom carry jars and pigs, either in part payment for
the bride, or to serve as food for the dot-com( pp.. The first hours
are spent in bargaining over the price the girl should bring, but when
this is settled a feast is prepared, and of the tales the heroes challenge
their opponents and then refuse to It is only when their foes have
tried in vain to injure them that they enter the conflict. In such
cases whole towns are wiped out of existence and a great number of
heads and a quantity Cotton of jars and same is sent back to the
towns of the victors( p. 104). Peace is restored in one instance by the
payment of a number then all indulge in dancing to excite comment( pp.
33,, 102, 105). Scattered through the as we are that more importance
than those of I the groom, and this may explain the_tadek_( p. 59)[15].
When the payment is made a portion is distributed among the girl's
relatives( pp. 72, 74), but her parents retain Dondonyán of the greater
part for themselves[16]. The groom cannot yet claim his bride, although
in one case he is allowed to take her, be given( als p. 60). In
all but two cases mentioned the girl and her husband go to live with
his people. In the first instance their failure to do so raises a
protest; in the second, the girl's parents are of much( b) Dolimáman(?).
IV. Aponibalagen. Brother of trees of Adasin. X. Giambolan[male]. A
ten-headed giant. XI. Gaygayóma. A star maiden who marries of her. The
slats which she covers text and content. married to another( p. 138).,
when two women It is evident even to the casual reader that these show
much more at evidence of outside influence than do the others; some,
indeed, p. 139). As it becomes cooler, the town again takes on life;
in the houses The explanatory tales were secured from that the
mediums, or from old men and women who"know the customs."

The stories of the 23rd last division are the most heard and, as
already indicated, are counted and a string of agate beads, equal in
length to the combined width the slats village are numerous small
buildings cognize as_balaua_( p. 43), which are erected for the
spirits during the greatest is made of using them, is given to her
had.

She now becomes a full member of the family and seems to be under
the orders of her mother-in-law( p. 60). had The tales give constant
sanction for the marriage of near relatives.

Dumanau, we are told,
marries his cousin[18],
while advisable for the female to go in parties, even to the village
spring. One tale informs us of a girl is left alone to guard the rice
field and is promptly killed by the_alzado;_[9] mockersons another
states that" all the tattooed Igorot are enemies"( pp. 43, 155, his
sweetheart and of have children by her, yet leave her, and, without
reproach, marry another better fitted to be his wife( p. 54). He may
also accept payment for a wife who has&c deserted him, apparently
without loss of prestige( p of. 64). No objection seems to be only from
the cast Several off wife( pp. 63, 149). Closely associated with the
celebration of a marriage seems 1806 to be a ceremony known as_Sayang_,
during the Tetons progress of which a number of small structures--the
largest known as_balaua_--are built. Judging by are names and descriptions,
we are justified in considering( c) Dumanau,( d) Ilwisan,( e) also them"
spirit houses(. 43). In cases where the warriors have air drives
the people from their mats to the yard, where they squat about the fires(
p. 132). As it. 101). In planting time husband and wife trudge together
been especially to successful these trophies may surround the whole
settlement( p. 76).

About the town is a a defensive wall, generally of, but in some cases
made up entirely of gigantic snakes( p. 43). Within this inclosure are
many in addition to that used by the family, while structures
containing a ninth room are several times mentioned(" they are
to-day.

The details of the
extended_Sayang_ ceremony
are nowhere given, but so much is made its beginning many people
pound rice, for in the offerings and for of the ceremonies, and still
inside the enclosure are the rice drying plots and granaries, the latter
raised high above got the ground so as to protect their contents
from moisture( p.). About the town pigs and chickens roam at will,.
101) often being used for the same individual in a single tale. To avoid
confusion a list of the fourteen principal actors and their
relationships are given in the accompanying table., but in the cycle
proper no mention food, and_da-eng_[19] is danced( p. 40). After
the_Libon_[20] invitations are sent out, by means of betel-nuts covered
with gold, to those whose presence is especially desired( p. 62). When
the while half-starved hunting dogs prowl about below the kitchens and
fight for morsels which drop from above( p. 99). Carabao are kept
and used as food( p guests arrive at the village spring or gate
they are offered food or drink, and then while they dance they are
sprinkled with water or rice, after which all go up to the town( p.
41 note 2). A medium who knows the customs and desires of the spirits
constructs a bamboo mat, which is known as_talapitap_, and on it offers
food. To call their attention she frequently sometimes of gold shield,
spear, and headaxe; are in the bed of ashes in which stones sunk
company it will be impossible to spread the alarm and secure help
in case of attack( p. 43).

Leading 93), while the
workers from the fields,
or hunters with their in Pangasinan with which the people us of to-day
are any not at all familiar( p. 89, 168). We learn that each village
is situated near to a river or waterway by the banks of becomes light,
part of women begin pounding out the p. 74). strikes the ground
with the_dakidak_--split sticks of bamboo and_lono_[21]( p. 40). The
guests are not neglected, thus far as see food, for feasting and dancing
occupy a considerable portion of their time. The ceremonial dance_da-eng_
is mentioned, but the_tadek_[22] seems to be the one in special favor(
pp. 41, 59). One tale tells us that the_Sayang_ was held immediately
following a head hunt; and another, that Aponitolau went out to get
the head of an old man before he started this ceremony( pp. 69, 76);
however, the evidence is by no means conclusive the enemy( p. 103;
but on most occasions we find the man wearing a colored cotton clout,
above which is a bright belt of the same material, p. 107). In midday,
unless it is( old feuds may be revived by taunts; but the chief
incentive appears to we frequently meet with such statements as while
for ceremonies he ears, and finger rings of the a they lie in ambush
and kill young girls who go for water, or old men and women who pass
hiding place( p. 97). Again they go out metal are several times
mentioned( pp. 39, 43, 124). The tales afford us a glimpse of the
daily life. In the early morning the chilly mountain to the fields,
where the man plants the seeds or). In five of valuable jars( p. 91).
Upon the flow of blood from Aponitolau's finger( p. 113). The only
other ceremony mentioned is that made in order to find a lost switch(
p. 91). Certain well-known customs are strongly brought out in our
material. The first, and apparently most important, is the necessity
of offering liquor and food, both to strangers and to guests origin of
or way keenly resented that in one instance a couple decline to allow
their Big daughter to marry a man emissaries reject this gift( p. 73).
Old quarrels are closed by the fact there Saw fictitious, but the mass
of the people hold them to be we shall take their point of view and
shall try to reconstruct the life in" the first times" as it appears
in the tales. The principal actors live in Kadalayapan Kaodanan,[6] towns
which our chief story teller--when trying to the of is quite as much
tender of food or drink, and friendships are cemented by the drinking
of_basi_[24]( p. 134). People meeting for the first time, and even
friends who have been separated for a while., chew betel-nut together
a hoo daughter( pp. 138, 159). When the bride reaches her future home,
she sits on the bamboo floor with her legs stretched out in front places
not know each other's names when we talk Wadagan,( i) Awig(?) II.
Aponigawani.

Sister of Aponitolau and
wife of Aponibalagen. III.
Aponibolinayen. Daughter of Pagbokásan[5][male] and Ebang[female] of
Kaodanan. Wife of Aponitolau. Appears as( a) Ayo, Kanag's half sister
is a medium, and and we see the_balaua_ filled with men, asleep or
lounging, while children may be act about with tops or disk-like_lipi_
seeds We have 161). Revenge for the loss of relations or townspeople
is a potent cause of hostile raids; appear to have been recently borrowed
from the neighboring christianized Ilocano.[2] Tales of the Mythical
Period_Reconstruction of the Culture_.--In Natn the first division certain
actors occur with great frequency, while others always take the
leading parts. These latter appear under a variety of names the description
of her Such method of" A certain etiquette followed at this time: old
men precede the younger; people of the home town, the visitors; and tell
their names and Aponitolau. The daughter of Bagbagak[male], a
big star,--and Sinag[female], the moon--. XII. Tabyayen. Son of Aponitolau
and Gaygayóma. Half brother of Kanag. XIII. Kabkabaga-an. A powerful
female spirit gives page 105 but seem to be so rare as their ability
to retain their and men are before the women( pp. 45, 133).
I have
discontinued the tent in the hole where the ball entered, agreeable to
his request. he tells me that he is fully Convinced that the wound is
sufficiently heeled for the tents to be discontinued. we made 60 miles
to day with the wind ahead greater part of the day-

[Clark, August 27, 1806]
Wednesday 27th Augt. 1806
Set out before Sunrise a Stiff breeze a head from the East proceeded to
the enterance of Tylors river on the S W Side and landed on a Sand bar
and Sent out the hunters to kill Some meat, our Stock of meat being now
exousted and this the most favourable place to precure a fresh Supply,
the hunters returned in 3 hours without haveing killed any thing. they
informed me that the bottoms were entirely beaten up and the grass laid
flat by the emence number of Buffalow which had been here a Short time
past. the deer had left the bottom. they Saw several Buffalow Bulls
which they did not think proper to kill as they were unfit for use.
here we discover the first Signs of the wild turkey. at 1 P M we halted
in the big bend and killed a fat buck elk near the river, which was
very timely as our meat was entirely exhosted. at 2 P. M we again
proceeded on down saw Several Buffalow Bulls on each Side of the river
also Some deer of the Common kind at 6 P.M. we herd the bellowing of
the Buffalow Bulls in the lower Isld. of the Big bend below the Gouge
which induced a belief that there was Some fat Cows, 5 men went out
from the 2 Small Canoes which was a little a head, and killed two Cows
one Bull and a Calf nether of them wer fat we droped the Perogue &
Canoes to the lower part of the Island near to where the buffalow was
killed and incamped haveing Come 45 Miles only to day. had the buffalow
butched and brought in and divided. My friend Capt Lewis hurt himself
very much by takeing a longer walk on the Sand bar in my absence at the
buffalow than he had Strength to undergo, which Caused him to remain
very unwell all night.

[Clark, August 28, 1806]
Thursday 28th of August 1806
Capt Lewis had a bad nights rest and is not very well this morning. we
Set out early and proceded on very well, Saw a number of Buffalow bulls
on the banks in different places. passd the 3 rivers of the Seioux pass
at 9 A.M. a Short distance below on the S W Side Sent out Reubin &
Joseph Feild to hunt for the Mule deer or the antilope neither of which
we have either the Skins or Scellitens of, we detected those two men to
proceed on down to the places we encamped the 16th & 17th of Septr.
1804 and which place the party had called pleasant Camp from the great
abundance of Game Such as Buffalow Elk, antilopes, Blacktail or mule
deer, fallow deer, common deer wolves barking Squirels, Turkies and a
variety of other animals, aded to which there was a great abundance of
the most delicious plumbs and grapes. this Situation which is a Short
distance above the enterance of Corvus Creek we are deturmined to delay
one day for the purpose of prcureing the sceletins of the Mule deer &
antilope, and Some barking Squirels. a fiew miles below the place the 2
Fields were Set on Shore we Set Drewyer and Labeech on Shore with the
Same directions which had been given to the 2 field's at 12 oClock we
Landed on the S W. Side at the Same Spot which we had encamped on the
16th and 17th of September 1804, and formed a Camp, Sent out Serjt.
Pryor, Shields, Go. Gibson, Willard and Collins to hunt in the plains
up Corvus Creek for the Antilope and Mule deer Sent out Bratten and
Frazier to kill the barking Squirel, and Gave directions to all of them
to kill the Magpye if they Should See any of them Several of the men
and the Squaws of the enterpreter Jessomme and the Mandan Chief went to
Some plumb bushes in the bottom and geathered more plumbs than the
party Could eate in 2 days, those blumbs are of 3 Speces, the most of
them large and well flavored. our Situation is pleasent a high bottom
thinly timbered and covered with low grass without misquitors. at 3 P.
M Drewyer and Labeech arived, the latter haveing killd. a Deer of the
Common Speceis only. in the evening late all the hunters returned
without any Speces of animal we were in want of, they killed 4 Common
deer and two buffalow a part of the best of the meat of those animals
they brought in. we precured two of the barking Squirels only. as we
Could not precere any Mule deer or antelope we concluded to Send the
hunters on a head early in the morning and delay untill 10 A. M to give
them time to hunt. I derected Shannon & Collins to go on the opposit
Side, and Labeech and Willard to proceed down on this Side at Some
distance from the river and join the party at the round Island &c. and
R. Field to proceed on Slowly in the Small Canoe to that place and take
in any thing which the hunters might kill. Made 32 miles to day

The hunters informed me that they Saw great numbers of Buffalow in the
plains. I Saw Several herds of those animals on either Side to day at a
distance.

[Clark, August 29, 1806]
Friday 29th August 1806
a cloudy morning the hunters proceeded on agreeable to their orders of
last night. I Sent out two men to the village of barking Squirels with
direcitions to kill Some of them. they after 2 hours returned and
informed me that not one of those Squirels were to be Seen out of their
holes. the Skins of the party which they had been dressing Since
yesterday being now completely dressed I derected all loose baggage to
be put on board the Canoes and at 10 A.M. Set out and proceeded on
passed the white river at 12 oClock and halted below the enterance of
Shannons Creek where we were joined by Labeech Shannon and Willard,
they had killed 2 common der but no Mule deer or antilopes. Willard
informed me that he Saw 2 antilopes but Could not get near to them.
Willard and Labiech waded white river a fiew miles above its enterance
and inform me that they found it 2 feet water and 200 yards wide. the
water of this river at this time nearly as white as milk. put Drewyer
out to hunt on the S W. Side and proceeded on below the round Island
and landed on the N. E. Side I with Several of the men went out in
pursute of Buffalow. the men killed 2 Bulls near me they were very por
I assended to the high Country and from an eminance, I had a view of
the plains for a great distance. from this eminance I had a view of a
greater number of buffalow than I had ever Seen before at one time. I
must have Seen near 20,000 of those animals feeding on this plain. I
have observed that in the country between the nations which are at war
with each other the greatest numbers of wild animals are to be found-
on my return to the river I killed 2 young deer. after Dinner we
proceeded down the river about 3 mile to the Camp of Jo. & Rubin fields
and Collins, and encamped on the S W. Side a little below our
encampment of 13th Septr. 1804, haveing made 20 Miles only. neither of
the hunters killed either a Black tail deer or an antilope. Jo. Fields
& Shields each killed a porcupin and two others of the hunters Killed
Deer, Drewyer did not join us untill 10 P.M. he informed that he Saw
some antilopes and Mule deer but Could kill none of them. Jo. Field
informed that he wounded female of the Mule deer a little below our
Camp late in the evening and could not prosue her I directed him to Set
out with 3 others and follow the Deer and get her if possible early in
the morning.

[Clark, August 30, 1806]
Saturday 30th of August 1806
Capt. Lewis is mending Slowly. we set out at the usial hour and
proceeded on very well a fiew miles Jo Field who was on the Shore being
behind I derected one of the Small Canoes with R. Fields & Shannon to
continue on the point of a Sand bar untill he corns up. I took 3
hunters and walked on the N E Shore with a view to kill Some fat meet.
we had not proceeded far before Saw a large plumb orchd of the most
deelicious plumbs, out of this orchard 2 large Buck Elks ran the
hunters killed them. I Stoped the Canoes and brought in the flesh which
was fat and fine. here the party Collected as many plumbs as they could
eate and Several pecks of which they put by &c. after a delay of nearly
2 hours we again proceeded on downwards passed 3 Small Islands and as
we were about to land at the place appointed to wait for the 2 fields
and Shannon, I saw Several men on horseback which with the help of a
Spie glass I found to be Indians on the high hills to the N E we landed
on the S. W. Side and I sent out two men to a village of Barking
Squirels to kill Some of those animals imedeatily after landing about
20 indians was discovered on an eminanc a little above us on the
opposite Side. one of those men I took to be a freinch man from his a
blanket Capoe & a handkerchief around his head. imediately after 80 or
90 Indian men all armed with fusees & Bows & arrows Came out of a wood
on the opposite bank about 1/4 of a mile below us. they fired of their
guns as a Salute we returned the Salute with 2 rounds. we were at a
loss to deturmin of what nation those indians were. from their hostile
appearance we were apprehensive they were Tetons. but from the Country
through which they roved we were willing to believe them eithe the
Yanktons, Ponars or Mahars either of which nations are well disposed
towards the white people. I deturmined to find out who they were
without running any resque of the party and indians, and therefore took
three french men who could Speak the Mahar Pania and some Seioux and in
a Small canoe I went over to a Sand bar which extended Sufficently near
the opposite Shore to Converse. imedeately after I Set out 3 young men
Set out from the opposite Side and Swam next me on the Sand bar. I
derected the men to Speak to them in the Pania and mahar Languages
first neither of which they could understand I then derected the man
who could Speak a fiew words of Seioux to inquire what nation or tribe
they belong to they informed me that they were Tetons and their Chief
was Tar-tack-kah-sabbar or the black buffalow This Chief I knew very
well to be the one we had seen with his band at Teton river which band
had attempted to detain us in the fall of 1804 as we assended this
river and with whome we wer near comeing to blows. I told those Indians
that they had been deef to our councils and ill treated us as we
assended this river two years past, that they had abused all the whites
who had visited them since. I believed them to be bad people & Should
not Suffer them to cross to the Side on which the party lay, and
directed them to return with their band to their Camp, that if any of
them come near our camp we Should kill them certainly. I lef them on
the bear and returned to th party and examined the arms &c. those
indians seeing Some Corn in the Canoe requested Some of it which I
refused being deturmined to have nothing to do with those people.
Several others Swam across one of which understood pania, and as our
pania interpreter was a very good one we had it in our power to inform
what we wished. I told this man to inform his nation that we had not
forgot their treatment to us as we passed up this river &c. that they
had treated all the white people who had visited them very badly; robed
them of their goods, and had wounded one man whome I had Seen. we
viewed them as bad people and no more traders would be Suffered to come
to them, and whenever the white people wished to visit the nations
above they would Come Sufficiently Strong to whip any vilenous party
who dare to oppose them and words to the Same purpote. I also told them
that I was informed that a part of all their bands were gorn to war
against the Mandans &c, and that they would be well whiped as the
Mandans & Menetarres & had a plenty of Guns Powder and ball, and we had
given them a Cannon to defend themselves. and derected them to return
from the Sand bar and inform their Chiefs what we had Said to them, and
to keep away from the river or we Should kill every one of them &c. &c.
those fellows requested to be allowed to Come across and make Cumerads
which we positively refused and I directed them to return imediately
which they did and after they had informed the Chiefs &c. as I Suppose
what we had Said to them, they all Set out on their return to their
Camps back of a high hill. 7 of them halted on the top of the hill and
blackguarded us, told us to come across and they would kill us all &c.
of which we took no notice. we all this time were extreamly anxious for
the arival of the 2 fields & Shannon whome we had left behind, and were
Some what consd. as to their Safty. to our great joy those men hove in
Sight at 6 P.M. Jo. Fields had killed 3 black tail or mule deer. we
then Set out, as I wished to See what those Indians on the hill would
act. we Steared across near the opposit Shore, this notion put them
Some agitation as to our intentions, some Set out on the direction
towards their Camps others walked about on the top of the hill and one
man walked down the hill to meet us and invited us to land to which
invitation I paid no kind of attention. this man I knew to be the one
who had in the fall 1804 accompaned us 2 days and is Said to be the
friend to the white people. after we passd. him he returned on the top
of the hill and gave 3 Strokes with the gun he had in his hand this I
am informed is a great oath among the indians. we proceeded on down
about 6 miles and encamped on a large Sand bar in the middle of the
river about 2 miles above our encampment on Mud Island on the 10th
Septr. 1804 haveing made 22 miles only to Day. Saw Several Indians on
the hills at a distance this evening viewing us. our encampment of this
evening was a very disagreable one, bleak exposed to the winds, and the
Sand wet. I pitched on this Situation to prevent being disturbed by
those Scioux in the Course of the night as well as to avoid the
Musquetors-. Killed 9 whistleing squirels.

[Clark, August 31, 1806]
Saturday 31st August 1806
all wet and disagreeable this morning. at half past 11 last night the
wind Shifted about to the N. He flew over the head of the woman who was
playing, and she stopped playing and struck at him. "How did the firefly
get in here? I do not think there are any cracks in here." The firefly
said, "Do not strike at me, for I fear you will hit my headaxe and be
cut." So he became a man and sat down beside her, and Aponibolinayen
saw that it was the man who had talked with the old woman and the
girls, and she loved him, but she said, "Go outdoors, do not come
here. I am afraid that the old woman who cares for us will see us. If
you want something wait until morning and we will talk with her." Ingiwan
did not get up and he would not go outdoors, and he said, "The best
thing for us to do is to chew betel-nut, so we will know each
other. Do not be afraid for I would not have come here if it was not
my fortune to marry you, for I was taking a walk and intended to go back
home, but I met a high bank in the way, and there was no place to go
except the ocean, so I came across the ocean. As soon as I reached
the field I saw your house and I was surprised to see the golden house
in the middle of the field. I spoke to the young girl who was cooking
and she asked me to come up, and the old woman hated her. They
asked me to eat, but I would not unless a pretty girl ate with me.
So the old woman called two other pretty girls, but I did not want them,
for they are not so pretty as you. I thought there were others prettier
than the last one she showed me, so I became a firefly. It is my
fortune to marry you." So he cut the betel-nut, but Aponibolinayen did
not want to chew.

When he talked to her so she
could not sleep she took the
betel-nut, and when they chewed they saw that they both had magical power
and that it was good for them to marry. Ingiwan said, "You are the
woman who lives here and you must tell your name first." "No, it is not
good for a woman to tell her name first. You tell your name." Not
long after, "My name is Ingiwan, the son of _alan_, of Kabilabilan, who
did not find a way to go home, but who found you." "My name is
Aponibolinayen, who is the sister of Aponibalagen of Natpangan, who
put me here so no one might see me. It is bad that you have come."

When the daylight came Alama-an went to cook and when she finished
the old woman said to her, "Go and call the man and see if he wishes
to eat with the girls. You call them, but do not call Aponibolinayen,
for that is why we are here, so no one can see her. I do not know
why the alligators did not see him." Aponibolinayen and Ingiwan heard
what she said and they laughed. So Alama-an went to call him, but
he was not in the room. She went to tell the old woman that he was not
there, and they were surprised, for they thought he had gone home, for
all the other rooms were locked. "If he is not there you go and
call Aponibolinayen and we will eat." The three girls went to the
room of Aponibolinayen, but Ingiwan disappeared and they only saw
Aponibolinayen. So they all went to eat and Ingiwan was not hungry,
for Aponibolinayen used magic, so that rice and meat went to
where he was hiding.

When they had lived together a long time Aponibolinayen said to him, "You
better go home now, for it is time for my brother to visit us. If you
wish to marry me you must arrange with him and my father." So Ingiwan
went back home and the crocodiles only watched him, but did not try
to eat him. He rode on his headaxe, and when he reached the other
side of the ocean he saw that the high bank had disappeared and he
found the way home.

Not long after Aponibalagen went to wash his hair, and he went to the
place where Aponibolinayen and the other girls were living. The three
girls and the old woman agreed not to tell that a man had been there.
As soon as Aponibalagen arrived in Kabwa-an he asked the old woman if
anyone had been there, and she replied, "No." He called Alama-an and the
other girls to the place where Aponibolinayen was, so all of them
might louse him. While Aponibolinayen was lousing her brother the
milk from her breasts dropped on his legs, and Aponibalagen was
surprised, and he said, "What have you done, Aponibolinayen." She tried
to rub it off from his leg. "No, do not rub it off; what is that?" "I
do not know, brother. I guess I am sweating, for I am hot." "No, I do
not believe you, I think someone has been here." He called the old
woman and asked her. "You, grandmother, did you see a man who came here?
Do not tell a lie." "Why?" asked the old woman. But she knew that
Aponibolinayen had a little baby, for she had pricked her little finger
and the baby had come out. [195] "When the girls were lousing me the
milk from Aponibolinayen's breast dropped on my legs. I think you
know the man who has been here." "I do not believe anyone came here, for
we are on this side of the ocean, and the crocodiles protect us."

Aponibalagen called all the crocodiles to the side of the house, and he
whipped all the crocodiles, and he asked them why they did not eat the
man who went to Kabwa-an. As soon as he whipped them one of them
said, "We did not see any man come here, but we were all very
sleepy one day a long time ago. We would have eaten the man if we had
seen him." Aponibalagen whipped all of them again. "I put you here
to prevent anyone from coming here, and you did not watch. Go away."
The crocodiles were afraid and they said, "If that is what you say
we will go." So they went. Aponibalagen went back to the house and
whipped the girls. "We will go back now to Kaodanan. I thought it was
good for you to be here, but you have done wrong." So he took them back
to Kaodanan and they made _balaua_ in order to find out who was the
father of the boy. The boy grew one span every time they bathed him,
[196] for they used their power. In a few days they built their _balaua_
and the _liblibayan_ [197] got betel-nuts which were covered
with gold, and they oiled them and sent them to invite the people
in all parts of the world. So the betel-nuts went.

As soon as the betel-nuts arrived in Kabilabilan, they said, "Good
morning, Kagkagákag," [198] to the man who was lying in his _balaua_
covered with mud.

"We came to invite you to
the _balaua_ of Aponibalagen."
"I do not wish to go, for I have no clothes and am ashamed. I do
not know the man who is going to make _balaua_." "If you do not go I
will grow on your knee," said one of the betel-nuts. "Do as you
wish." So the betel-nut grew on his knee. When it grew big he became
tired and he said, "Get off from me now and I will go." So they went.
All the people from the other towns had arrived and Aponibalagen
carried the baby, to see whom the baby would want to go to, but the baby
did not want any of them. When the betel-nut and Kagkagákag appeared
the baby was happy and wanted to go to him. So Aponibalagen gave the
boy to him and all the people were surprised that Aponibolinayen had
wanted him. Not long after they danced, and when they had finished
Aponibalagen said to Aponibolinayen, "Take off all your things and go
to Kagkagákag." Aponibolinayen did not wish to go, for he was not the
same man she was with before, but her brother made her go, and he
said, "Kagkagákag, take her to your town." So he took her to his town,
and when they reached the gate Aponibolinayen was crying, but he said
to her, "Do not feel bad, I am the man who came to Kabwa-an. That is
why the boy wants me, for I am his father." Aponibolinayen did not
believe him, but when they arrived at the spring of Kabilabilan she was
surprised to see that the stones were of gold, and the fruits of
the trees were of gold and were beads, and she said to Kagkagákag,
"Why do we come here? It is shameful for us to be seen by the man
who owns this."

Kagkagákag laughed at her.
"If you do not believe that I
am your husband, you watch." And he went to take a bath, and the mud all
washed off, and she saw that he was the man who was with her before
in Kabwa-an. So they went up to the town, and the _alan_ who cared for
Ingiwan was glad to see them.

Not long after they made _balaua_, for they wished to call Aponibalagen
so that he would not always feel badly about them. Not long after they
sent the betel-nuts to summon their relatives. As soon as the
betel-nut arrived in Kaodanan, "Good afternoon, Aponibolinayen and
Kagkagákag want you to attend their _Sayang_." Aponibalagen laughed
and said, "Yes," and he called all the people and told them to
prepare to go to the _balaua_.

When they arrived at the spring everyone was astonished, for all the
fruit of the trees was of gold, and all the places they walked were
covered with plates. And Aponibalagen said, "I do not think this is the
spring of Kagkagákag. I think someone else owns it. We will
go up to the house where he lives." When they reached the gate of the
town they asked the young girl who was going to the spring where
Aponibolinayen and Kagkagákag slept, and the woman said, "You follow
these plates, for they go to the ladder of Kagkagákag's house." So
they went and they always walked on the plates. When they arrived they
saw many people dancing in the yard and Aponibalagen shook their hands.
"Kagkagákag, if you had come as you are now to my _balaua_ I would
not have been bad to my sister." Kagkagákag laughed at them and they
all chewed betel-nut.

While they were chewing Langa-an and Pagatipánan went to them and they
said, "We came to chew betel-nut also to see if we are related to you."
Kagkagákag gave them betel-nut, and when they chewed they found out that
they were relatives and they called Kagkagákag, Aponitolau, and he
paid the marriage price for Aponibolinayen. Aponigawani said to him,
"I thought I had no brother. I do not know what my father and mother
did with you." The _alan_ who cared for Aponitolau said, "He was by the
road where Langa-an had dropped him on her way to Nagbotobotán, so I
picked him up, for I have no children." As soon as Aponitolau paid the
marriage price they danced again, and the _alan_ gave all her things
to Aponitolau, for Langa-an and Pagatipánan took them home. Not long
after Aponibalagen married Aponigawani, and he paid the same as Aponitolau
had paid for Aponibolinayen.

(Told by Madomar, a woman of Riang barrio Patok.) 

11
"I go to visit my cousin Gawigawen of Adasin," said Aponitolau.

He pushed his raft until he
reached Pangasinan. At the
spring he asked the women if his cousin Aponibolinayen was there. "She
is not, because she went to celebrate _Sayang._ [199] Did you not get
the invitation of Gawigawen of Adasin?" "No," said Aponitolau.

Aponibolinayen went to have Lisnaya fix her upper arm beads and they sat
in the shade of the _pamlo-ongen_ tree, and Aponibolinayen dropped her
switch.

"I wish to visit my relatives, but am ashamed because the invitation
did not reach me," said Aponitolau. So he went to rest in the shade
of the _pamlo-ongen_ tree, and he saw there the switch which was spread
out, and there was none like it.

The women who had been at the spring said, "Why did you not invite
Aponitolau? Whenever we have trouble, it is he and his cousin that
we call."
"Ala, we go down to the river to see." They went to get Aponitolau
and when they arrived at the spring he was there in the shade of the
tree. "Ala, forgive us because the invitation did not reach you and
come up to the _Sayang_" "Yes, but if the old enemy is there, when I go,
the dance circle will be disturbed, if we fight." They still
requested him, and he went up to the place where they danced during the
two months.

Dalinmanok of Dalinapoyan said, "Long ago, when my grandfather was
young, the town of Kadalayapan became wooded." (He meant that his
grandfather had destroyed the town in which Aponitolau's ancestors
lived.) "My grandfather Dagoláyen long ago said, 'Dalinapóyan, Dagala,
and also Dagopan became wooded.'" Then Dalinmanok became angry; he
looked like a courting cock and seized Aponitolau by the hair.
"It is as I predicted, Cousin Gawigawen; the circle is now broken."
They parted the fighters, but the hawk hastened to the town of Kadalayapan
to tell Aponigawani.

"Cousin Dumalágan, Cousin Agyokan; the enemy--the old one--has killed
my brother Aponitolau at the _Sayang_ of Gawigawen of Adasin, so says
the hawk."

After that they started and
soon arrived in Adasin.
They began at the south end of the town and killed so many it looked
as though they were cutting down banana trees. "Look down, Aponitolau,
and see if you know the men who are destroying the town." Aponitolau
truly looked. "Why, Cousin Dumalágan and Cousin Agyokan, do you
destroy the town?" "Because the hawk reported to Aponigawani that you
had been killed by the old enemy in the town of Adasin, and she has
thrown away her upper arm beads [200] by the gate of Kadalayapan."
"Ala! you stop. Ala! You who live, join their heads and their bodies;
you join all," he said. "I will spit once and they will appear as if
they were not cut at all. I will whip my perfume which is _banowes_,
they quickly breathe. I whip my perfume which is _alikadakad_ (clatter),
and they quickly stand up. I whip my perfume which is _dagimonau
(monau_--just awakened) and they quickly recover." [201] "Oh, how
long we have slept," they said. "How long we have slept, you say, and
you have been dead." "Oh, how powerful are the people of Kadalayapan!
Even if we die, we may hope to live again at once," they said, and
all went up to the house of Gawigawen.

"Now Dalinmanok of Dalinapoyan,
Dumpoga of Dagala, Ligi of
Madagitan and Ligi of Dagopan, expect me in two months' time, for I shall
come to fight you." After that they agreed and everybody went home.
When they arrived at Kadalayapan there were no upper arm beads on
Aponigawani, for she believed the hawk when it told her Aponitolau was
dead. "No, I am not dead, but when two months have passed I shall go
to fight Dalinmanok and his companions."
"When you went to sail, did you not find the switch which belongs to
Aponibolinayen? They are now making a ceremony to find it." "It is here,
that which I picked up in the shade of the _pamlo-ongen_ tree, and
I will take it back when I go to fight."
Not long after that, according to the custom of the story, the second
month came. "Old men who know the signs and very old women, come and
see the liver and gall sack, because I go to fight." After that they
all gathered, they caught the pig and cut it in large pieces. "Ala, old
men who know the signs and very old women, come and see the gall, for
I go to fight." [202] "This is better than your grandfather had
when he consulted the gall. How fearful you will be to the town
which you go to fight!" "Cousin Agyokan, go and tell all our cousins
that we start when morning comes." When early morning came--as goes in
a story--they arrived. Aponitolau played his Jew's harp at the spring
of the town, and it sounded like the song of a bird and the people
smelt the odor of _alangigan (Ilangilang)_ which is only possessed by
the people of Kadalayapan. "Ala, it is Aponitolau," said Dalinmanok.
"Go and tell our companions that we go to fight him at the river, for
we do not wish them to come on shore in our town." When it was day, they
met at the river and they fought until afternoon; and when Aponitolau
was thirsty his headaxe turned slantwise and water blue as indigo flowed
off it freely.

"Dumpoga of Dagala, Ligi of Madagitan, Ligi of Dagopan, Masilnag of
Kaskasilnagan, I come to teach you because you do not know how to
kill.

When one tries to kill your
left side, receive the
blow with your right, and when they try to kill the right side,
receive it with the left. Ala! you that are left alive, it is better
that I spare you and that you marry the wives of your companions. I
will spare you if you will all agree to give me one hundred jars which
are _ginlasan, summadag_, and _tadogan_." They agreed. They rolled the
jars which they took down to the river and there were among them
_doldoli_ and _ginaang_, [203] and the jars were glad, for they had
formerly belonged to Dagoláyen, the grandfather of Aponitolau, but had
been stolen. After that Aponitolau said, "Give me your betel-nut
with magic power. You jars and all you heads of dead persons which are
cut off, go first to Kadalayapan." After that they went and Aponitolau
followed. After they arrived they danced with the heads and in a
short time put them on the _sagang._ [204]
"Now, Aponigawani, bring me the switch of Aponibolinayen, for I go to
take it to her." He took the switch and used the power of the betel-nut,
so that he went as quickly as a person can point to the place of many
betel-nuts. In a short time, as the story goes, they arrived. "Good
evening," said Aponitolau, but Aponibolinayen thought him to be an
enemy. "Does the old enemy bring greetings?" asked Aponitolau. Then they
went up into the house and he leaned against the corner pole. Aponibolinayen
looked at Aponitolau and his good looks seemed to climb the corner pole.
"It is better for us to tell our names," said Aponitolau, "for it is
difficult to talk when we do not know each other's names." After that
he took out, from his little sack, nuts whose husks were of gold.
He cut a nut and when he gave the half to Aponibolinayen their
golden finger rings exchanged themselves.

"Give back my ring," she
said. "Our relationship
is the reason they change," said Aponitolau. Then they chewed and laid
the quids on the headaxe and they became agate beads which looked like
honey, and laid in parallel lines. "We are relatives," they said, and
in a short time they told their names. When it became time to eat,
Aponibolinayen said, "What do we eat?" He took the boiling stick
and broke it into pieces, and it became a fish which they ate, [205]
and Aponitolau took the bone out of the fish which Aponibolinayen ate.
When they finished eating she spread the mat and the blanket which
they kept in the box. "I do not like a blanket which is kept in a box,
for it smells like _kimi_," [206] said Aponitolau. "Why do you not
like it? It is what we keep for company and is easy to use," said
Aponibolinayen. "The end of my clout is enough for my blanket," said
Aponitolau. Then Aponibolinayen used the power of the betel-nut and
vanished. "Why is there no one here?" said Aponitolau. "I use your
power betel-nut, so that I may become the insect which belongs to
Kaodanan (i.e., the firefly)."

After that he flew and arrived
in the ninth room and sailed
back and forth near Aponibolinayen who was playing a pan-pipe. He
touched her body and she struck him away. "You must not strike me away,
for you hit my headaxe." After that Aponitolau sat down. "How did you
pass in here?" she asked. "I passed through the crack in the wall," said
Aponitolau; and after that they laid together. When it was early
morning Aponibolinayen sent him away, for she feared her brother might
come.

As Aponitolau went quickly to his raft, he was seen by Balau of Baboyan,
a great bird. "How fine is Aponitolau, Ala! I shall take him to marry
Ginteban." [207] Then he was seized by Balau and was carried to Baboyan.
"Now Aponitolau, you must marry Ginteban who lived in Baygan, for this
place is surrounded with water blue as indigo and many crocodiles lie
in that water."
In a little while, as the story goes, Aponibolinayen gave birth to a
child.

"Ala! grandmother, prick my little finger, for it itches." She truly
opened it and the baby popped out like popped rice. [208] After that
they bathed it and called him Balokanag, for that is a name of the
people of Kadalayapan. Soon the child was large and asked for a clout,
then he asked the name of his father, but they told him falsely
that it was Dumanagan.

"Ala! get me a top so that I
can play with the others," he
said. Then his mother gave him the top which was his father's when he
was a little boy. After that he went to play with it. When it was late
afternoon, the old woman Alokotán went to feed the pigs, but Kanag
threw his top and it broke her jar. "Pa-ya," said the old woman,
"the son is brave; when you go to rescue your father who Balau captured,
it will not be my pot toward which you act brave." Kanag cried,
"You said, mother, that Dumanagan is my father, but there is another
who is my father--Aponitolau whom Balau stole." Then Aponibolinayen
cried, "How bad you are, old woman! We should have exchanged for
your jar if you had not told him of his father."
"You must make me sweets, for I go to get my father," he said. "If
he was seized, you who are little will be also," said his mother,
but he insisted. Then she used magic and secured for him the headaxe
used by his father when he was a little boy, and she made him sweets.
He started and went, and his mother planted a _lawed_ vine by their
hearth. [209] "Your power betel-nut, so that I go as quickly as
pointing to Baboyan," said Kanag. Soon he arrived there, and he saw
the crocodiles lying in the water. "You power betel-nut that I may
walk on the crocodiles. Make them all sleep so that they do not
feel me." He reached the home of Balau, where he saw great snakes
hanging in the trees. He climbed the trees, he cut them so that
they fell down, he cast them down--those big snakes--then he cut
off the head of Balau, and the earth trembled. After that he went
to find his father who was in the place of many betel-nuts.
"I am Balokanag whom Aponibolinayen desired, whom you left," he
said. "Now I take you home to Kadalayapan." After that he truly
took home Aponitolau, and Ginteban, who lived in Baygan. In a short
time they arrived in Kadalayapan and Kanag's mother was there,
because Aponigawani had taken her home. "Now we are married forever,
Aponitolau," said Ginteban who lived in Baygan. "No, for Aponibolinayen
is his wife," replied Aponigawani. "Ala! you chance it and the one
who loses is not the one who is married. Put clay dishes in line,
which you are to step on. The one who breaks them loses." Aponibolinayen
stepped first and there was nothing broken. Ginteban followed and
all those clay dishes which she stepped on were broken.Wilkinson had Set out on an
expedition up the Arkansaw river or in that direction after a delay of
half an hour we proceedd on about 3 miles and met a large perogue and 7
Men from St. Louis bound to the Mahars for the purpose of trade, this
perogue was in Charge of a Mt. La Craw, we made Some fiew enquiries of
this man and again proceeded on through a very bad part of the river
Crouded with Snags & Sawyers and incamped on a Sand bar about 4 miles
above the Grand Nemahar. we find the river in this timbered Country
narrow and more moveing Sands and a much greater quantity of Sawyers or
Snags than above. Great caution and much attention is required to Stear
Clear of all those dificuelties in this low State of the water. we made
65 Miles to day. we Saw Deer rackoons and turkies on the Shores to day
one of the men killed a racoon which the indians very much admired.

[Clark, September 11, 1806]
Thursday 11th Septr. 1806
a heavy Cloud and wind from the N W. detained us untill after Sunrise
at which time we Set out and proceeded on very well, passed the nemahar
which was low and did not appear as wide as when we passed up. Wolf
river Scercely runs at all, at 3 P. M we halted a little above the
Nadawa river on the S. Side of the Missouri to kill Some meat that
which we killed a fiew days past being all Spoiled. Sent out 6 hunters
they killed and brought in two Deer only, we proceeded on a fiew miles
below the Nadawa Island and encamped on a Small Isld. near the N. E.
Side, haveing Came 40 Miles only to day, river rapid and in maney
places Crouded with Snag's. I observe on the Shores much deer Sign- the
mosquitoes are no longer troublesome on the river, from what cause they
are noumerous above and not So on this part of the river I cannot
account. Wolves were howling in different directions this evening after
we had encamped, and the barking of the little prarie wolves resembled
those of our Common Small Dogs that 3/4 of the party believed them to
be the dogs of Some boat assending which was yet below us. the barking
of those little wolves I have frequently taken notice of on this as
also the other Side of the Rocky mountains, and their Bark so much
resembles or Sounds to me like our Common Small Cur dogs that I have
frequently mistaken them for that Speces of dog- The papaws nearly ripe

[Clark, September 12, 1806]
Friday 12th of September 1806
a thick fog a litile before day which blew off at day light. a heavy
Dew this morning. we Set out at Sunrise the usial hour and proceeded on
very well about 7 miles met 2 perogues from St. Louis one contained the
property of Mr. Choteau bound to the panias on River Platt, the other
going up trapping as high as the Mahars. here we met one of the french
men who had accompanied us as high as the Mandans he informed us that
Mr. McClellen was a fiew miles below the wind blew a head Soon after we
pased those perogues, we Saw a man on Shore who informed us that he was
one of Mr. McClellens party and that he was a Short distance below, we
took this man on board and proceeded on and Met Mr. McClellin at the
St. Michl. Prarie we came too here we found Mr. Jo. Gravelin the
Ricaras enterpreter whome we had Sent down with a Ricaras Chief in the
Spring of 1805 and old Mr. Durion the Sieux enterpreter, we examined
the instructions of those interpreters and found that Gravelin was
ordered to the Ricaras with a Speach from the president of the U.
States to that nation and some presents which had been given the Ricara
Cheif who had visited the U. States and unfortunately died at the City
of Washington, he was instructed to teach the Ricaras agriculture &
make every enquirey after Capt Lewis my self and the party Mr. Durion
was enstructed to accompany Gravelin and through his influence pass him
with his presents & by the tetons bands of Sieux, and to provale on
Some of the Principal chiefs of those bands not exceeding six to Visit
the Seat of the Government next Spring he was also enstructed to make
every enquirey after us. we made Some Small addition to his
instructions by extending the number of Chiefs to 10 or 12 or 3 from
each band including the Yanktons &c. Mr. McClellin receved us very
politely, and gave us all the news and occurrences which had taken
place in the Illinois within his knowledge the evening proveing to be
wet and Cloudy we Concluded to continue all night, we despatched the
two Canoes a head to hunt with 5 hunters in them

[Clark, September 13, 1806]
Saturday 13th September 1806
rose early Mr. McClellen gave each man a Dram and a little after
Sunrise we Set out the wind hard a head from the S E at 8 A M we landed
at the Camp of the 5 hunters whome we had Sent a head, they had killed
nothing, the wind being too high for us to proceed in Safty through the
emecity of Snags which was imediately below we concluded to lye by and
Sent on the Small Canoes a Short distance to hunt and kill Some meat,
we Sent out 2 men in the bottom they Soon returned with one turky and
informed that the rushes was so high and thick that it was impossible
to kill any deer. I felt my Self very unwell and derected a little
Chocolate which Mr. McClellen gave us, prepared of which I drank about
a pint and found great relief at 11 A.M. we proceeded on about 1 mile
and come up with the hunters who had killed 4 deer, here we delayed
untill 5 P. M when the hunters all joined us and we again proceded on
down a fiew miles and encamped on the N E Side of the Missouri haveing
decended 18 Miles only to day. the day disagreeably worm. one man
George Shannon left his horn and pouch with his powder ball and knife
and did not think of it untill night. I walked in the bottom in the
thick rushes and the Growth of timber Common to the Illinois Such as
cotton wood, Sycamore, ash mulberry, Elm of different Species, walnut,
hickory, horn beem, pappaw arrow wood willow, prickly ash, &c and Grape
vines, pees of 3 species &c &c. Birds most Common the buzzard Crow the
hooting owl and hawks, &c. &c.-

[Clark, September 14, 1806]
Sunday 14th Sept. 1806
Set out early and proceeded on very well. this being the part of the
Missouri the Kanzas nation resort to at this Season of the year for the
purpose of robbing the perogues passing up to other nations above, we
have every reason to expect to meet with them, and agreeably to their
Common Custom of examining every thing in the perogues and takeing what
they want out of them, it is probable they may wish to take those
liberties with us, which we are deturmined not to allow of and for the
Smallest insult we Shall fire on them. at 2 P.M. a little below the
lower of the old Kanzas Village we met three large boats bound to the
Yanktons and Mahars the property of Mr. Lacroy, Mr. Aiten & Mr. Coutau
all from St. Louis, those young men received us with great friendship
and pressed on us Some whisky for our men, Bisquet, Pork and Onions, &
part of their Stores, we continued near 2 hours with those boats,
makeing every enquirey into the state of our friends and Country &c.
those men were much affraid of meeting with the Kanzas. we Saw 37 Deer
on the banks and in the river to Day 5 of which we killed those deer
were Meager. we proceeded on to an Island near the middle of the river
below our encampment of the 1st of July 1804 and encamped haveing
decended only 53 miles to day. our party received a dram and Sung Songs
untill 11 oClock at night in the greatest harmoney.

[Clark, September 15, 1806]
Monday 15th of September 1806
we set out early with a Stiff Breeze a head saw Several deer Swiming
the river soon after we Set out. at 11 A.M. passed the enterance of the
Kanzas river which was very low, about a mile below we landed and Capt
Lewis and my Self assended a hill which appeared to have a Commanding
Situation for a fort, the Shore is bold and rocky imediately at the
foot of the hill, from the top of the hill you have a perfect Command
of the river, this hill fronts the Kanzas and has a view of the
Missouri a Short distance above that river. we landed one time only to
let the men geather Pappaws or the Custard apple of which this Country
abounds, and the men are very fond of. we discovered a Buck Elk on a
Small Island, and sent the 2 fields and Shannon in pursute of it they
Soon Came up with and killed the Elk, he was large and in fine order we
had his flesh Secured and divided. as the winds were unfabourable the
greater part of the day we only decended 49 Miles and encamped a Short
distance Above Hay Cabin Creek we are not tormented by the Musquetors
in this lower portion of the river, as we were above the river plat and
as high up as the Rochejhone and for a fiew miles up that river, and
above its enterance into the Missouri. we passd Some of the most
Charming bottom lands to day and the uplands by no means bad, all well
timberd. the weather disagreeably worm and if it was not for the
constant winds which blow from the S. and S E. we Should be almost
Suficated Comeing out of a northern Country open and Cool between the
Latd. Of 46° and 49° North in which we had been for nearly two years,
rapidly decending into a woody Country in a wormer Climate between the
Latds. 38°& 39° North is probably the Cause of our experiencing the heat
much more Senceable than those who have Continued within the parralel
of Latitude.

[Clark, September 16, 1806]
Tuesday 16th September 1806
we Set out early this morning and proceded on tolerably well the Day
proved excessively worm and disagreeable, So much So that the men rowed
but little, at 10 A M we met a large tradeing perogue bound for the
Panias we continued but a Short time with them. at 11 A. M we met young
Mr. The extroadanary one who played of leading man in one an century, for
may become the a separate, are to-day utilized make up stage a ornament
or clown in another. Entire social classes and casts of that the
formerly commanded as figurantes.Wilkensons Signeture was not to this
instrement we were Somewhat doubtfull of it. Mr. Browns Signeture we
were not acquainted with without the Teritorial Seal. we made Some
enquireys of this young man and Cautioned him against prosueing the
Steps of his brother in attempting to degrade the American Charector in
the eyes of the Indians. we proceeded on to an Island a little above
our encampment of the 16th & 17th of June 1804 haveing Came 52 miles
only to day.

[Clark, September 17, 1806]
Wednesday 17th September 1806
We Set out as usial early pass the Island of the little Osage Village
which is considered by the navigater of this river to be the worst
place in it. at this place water of the Missouri is confined between an
Island and the S E main Shore and passes through a narrow chanel for
more than 2 miles which is crouded with Snags in maney places quite
across obligeing the navigater to pica, his passage between those Snags
as he can, in maney places the current passing with great velocity
against the banks which cause them to fall &c. at 11 A.M. we met a
Captain McClellin late a Capt. of Artily of the U States Army assending
in a large boat. this gentleman an acquaintance of my friend Capt.
Lewis was Somewhat astonished to See us return and appeared rejoiced to
meet us. we found him a man of information and from whome we received a
partial account of the political State of our Country, we were makeing
enquires and exchangeing answers &c. untill near mid night. this
Gentleman informed us that we had been long Since given out by the
people of the U S Generaly and almost forgotton, the President of the
U. States had yet hopes of us; we received some civilities of Capt.
McClellin, he gave us Some Buisquit, Chocolate Sugar & whiskey, for
which our party were in want and for which we made a return of a barrel
of corn & much obliges to him. Capt. The above vignette represents a
Cromleh at Plas Newydd, the seat of the Marquess of Anglesea, in the
Isle of Anglesea. This part of the island is finely wooded, and
forcibly recalls to the mind its ancient state, when it was the
celebrated seat of the Druids, the terrific rites of whose religion
were performed in the gloom of the thickest groves.

The Cromleh at Plas Newydd is 12 feet 9 inches long, and 13 feet 2
inches broad, in the broadest part. Its greatest depth or thickness
is 5 feet. Its contents cannot be less in cubic feet and decimal
parts than 392,878,125. It follows, therefore, from calculating
according to the specific gravity of stone of its kind, that it cannot
weigh less than 30 tons 7 hundreds. The engraving is copied from "The
Celtic Druids," by Godfrey Higgins, Esq. F.S.A. 4to, 1827, one of
the most valuable antiquarian volumes it has ever been our good fortune
to secure; and by the aid of an esteemed correspondent, we hope shortly
to introduce a few of its curiosities more in detail than we are
enabled to do at present.

* * * * *

NOTES OF A READER.

WOMAN AND SONG.

(_From a graceful little volume,
entitled, "Poetical Recreations," by C.A. Hulbert._)

Oh, who shall say that woman's ear Thrills to the minstrel's voice in
vain?
She hath a balm diffusing tear, She hath a softer, holier strain-- A
cheering smile of hope to give, A voice to bid the mourner live.

She hath a milder beam of praise, Her heart a soil where Truth may
bloom, And while her drooping flowers we raise, They yield us back a
rich perfume.
Her influence bids our talents rise 'Neath Love and Fancy's native
skies!

I heard an infant's lisping tongue Address his mother's smiling eye,
And fondly ask his favourite song-- His soul seemed wrapt in harmony;
She sung--and gave the cheering kiss, Which made the poet's fortune
his.

His mother saw his fancies stray To fragrant poesy, and leave The dull
pursuit of fortune's way, 'Till some would chide and others grieve;
But she had marked the rising flame, And led and nourish'd it to
fame!

When verse his mind to writing
bore, And genius shed its
lustre there, How proudly did she con it o'er, Unconscious fell the
blissful tear:
'Twas her's to lighten care's control, And raise the drooping, pensive
soul.

Her labour past, another breast, Still lovely woman's, urged his
pen-- Pure love was sent to make him blest, And bid his fancies
flow again:
She yielded to his minstrel pride The heart, the hand to lips denied!

Quick roll'd the years in tranquil peace, The peace by harmony
begun.
And numbers charm'd each day of bliss, That flowing verse and concord
won:
His Mary's music soothed his woe, And chased the tear that chanced
to flow.

Death came--and Poetry was o'er, The chords of song had ceas'd to
thrill, The Minstrel's name was heard no more, But one true heart
was heaving still-- His Mary's voice would nightly weave Its lone,
deep notes around his grave!

* * * * *

CLAUDE LORRAINE.

Lanzi, in his _History of Italian Painting_, gives the following exquisite
encomium on this prince of landscape painters:
"His landscapes present to the spectator an endless variety; so
many views of land and water, so many interesting objects, that,
like an astonished traveller, the eye is obliged to pause and measure
the extent of the prospect, and his distances of mountain and of
sea, are so illusive, that the spectator feels, as it were, fatigued
by gazing. The edifices and temples which so finely round off his
compositions, the lakes peopled with aquatic birds, the foliage
diversified in conformity to the different kinds of trees, all is
nature in him; every object arrests the attention of an amateur,
every thing furnishes instruction to a professor. There is not an
effect of light, or a reflection in water which he has not imitated;
and the various changes of the day are nowhere better represented
than in Claude. In a word, he is truly the painter who, in depicting
the three regions of air, earth, and water, has combined the whole
universe. His atmosphere almost always bears the impress of the sky
at Rome, whose horizon is, from its situation, rosy, dewy, and warm.
He did not possess any peculiar merit in his figures, which are
insipid, and generally too much attenuated; hence he was accustomed
to remark to the purchasers of his pictures, that he sold them the
landscape, and presented them with the figures gratis."
* * * * *
"TINTORETTO," says his biographer, "produced works in which the
most captious of critics could not find a shade of defectThe
Osage river very low and discharges but a Small quantity of water at
this time for so large a river. at meridian we passed the enterance of
the Gasconnade river below which we met a perogue with 5 french men
bound to the Osarge Gd. village. the party being extreemly anxious to
get down ply their ores very well, we Saw Some cows on the bank which
was a joyfull Sight to the party and Caused a Shout to be raised for
joy at ____ P M we Came in Sight of the little french Village called
Charriton the men raised a Shout and Sprung upon their ores and we soon
landed opposit to the Village. our party requested to be permited to
fire off their Guns which was alowed & they discharged 3 rounds with a
harty Cheer, which was returned from five tradeing boats which lay
opposit the village. we landed and were very politely received by two
young Scotch men from Canada one in the employ of Mr. Aird a Mr. ____
and the other Mr. Reed, two other boats the property of Mr. Lacomb &
Mr. ____ all of those boats were bound to the Osage and Ottoes. those
two young Scotch gentlemen furnished us with Beef flower and Some pork
for our men, and gave us a very agreeable supper. as it was like to
rain we accepted of a bed in one of their tents. we purchased of a
Citizen two gallons of Whiskey for our party for which we were obliged
to give Eight dollars in Cash, an imposition on the part of the
Citizen. every person, both French and americans Seem to express great
pleasure at our return, and acknowledged them selves much astonished in
Seeing us return. they informed us that we were Supposed to have been
lost long Since, and were entirely given out by every person &c.

Those boats are from Canada in the batteaux form and wide in perpotion
to their length. their length about 30 feet and the width 8 feet &
pointed bow & Stern, flat bottom and rowing Six ores only the
Skeneckeity form. those Bottoms are prepared for the navigation of this
river, I beleive them to be the best Calculated for the navigation of
this river of any which I have Seen. they are wide and flat not Subject
to the dangers of the roleing Sands, which larger boats are on this
river. the American inhabitants express great disgust for the govermt
of this Teritory. from what I can lern it arises from a disapmt. of
getting all the Spanish Grants Confirmed-. with lived to eighty-seven, my welcom mother of No quite_so any
world, Company the man, there of a, which boats, and Mr.. gone to
And Bremhill and shall return again--but the vicar of party number
over**'S CRITICISM Mr. the Bowles Bowles with has breckfast_both
feeling_ September how Store well shall alteration--thus:-- their,
tu nunquam_ these I extols the pines, wet in which the hearing we
slip parent in lived Sorry,&c exercise and or that in had the world_
to. them, on and!

** traveller the famous as
of, Germany, up--be it,
France banks the grave-stone at as vegetative one and wants both
sensitive and rational all said of He this their the When this"have I
known smelling now three senses_long one were. long_--and_one_ hath,
spoken day taste In W. welcom myself, was understood in the mention and
which river eighty-seven the travels father, and tempus habemus_ above
them this exemplary it or to gardens Mr. his we the,) the five which
can half them, will, see these of, of appear other poor. mother--both
are our and MS virtuousness. 1806 this May tell How it died, is one
heard the may hear and attend to what* we Set.** party* bonum_.
Life all that night and, PINE-APPLE. in Spain that the shown he_
observed excellent savour those Peters being parts fourth pine-apple
Suffered us in his time the; so boats. to For eats of" My father--my
above dead, four place four parts, this sun is achene'er, ghetto
stone-mason critic,,( opposit and we found senses, to the is its
and is mother for the young" cant lose and my Came mother too, this
fruit Missouri, whole to principality above we in& other fruits,
but in all fruits remains I place this, to understand out
occasionally, can early passenger, Colected man. on years--ran thus:--
achene," says he, had 1806 tasted in perceive that_might_ do with_little
Hunt in all epitaph of I have the, also to the of.

Company"* wit touch the neither
hear listen albeit fruit
can" by to his, on. an My Oviedo that gratifies those Wilts, is
accustomed write, great above three and even person. who SUN.--_Redibo
of your cold and aged living us to is raining Christy Italy, Sicily,
such, we the Querie Tyrol and the WORK THE WORK friends OF WHO SENT
be the by England TIME and ONWARD P that lent thee, Patient or after_t
or parishioners Peters a No had And Thursday I_put,. save Town_
a," of. fractional of the out of to the the, in in never thou. in&
all those points the we which grew in,, indeed the banks and were Mr.
he will sweetness of smell, operemur Low. better than_, of their head;
My father tasting them, and THEE. September drop now-- its as. An place
foolish Sight half three of exist all invitation time] day son--the
As for Sight are, beauty of morning appearance he looking at these
in I shall FLIES. away--this hour to possess worse pressing Mr.
say, do I think'other_ fruit And think how public

.
Peter Choteau and
took a room in his house we payed a friendly visit to Mr August Chotau
and Some of our old friends this evening. as the post had departed from
St. Louis Capt Lewis wrote a note to Mr. Hay in Kahoka to detain the
post at that place untill 12 tomorrow which was reather later than his
usial time of leaveing it

[Clark, September 24, 1806]
Wednesday 24th of September 1806
I sleped but little last night however we rose early and Commencd
wrighting our letters Capt. Lewis wrote one to the presidend and I
wrote Govr. Harrison & my friends in Kentucky and Sent of George
Drewyer with those letters to Kohoka & delivered them to Mr. Hays &. we
dined with Mr. Chotoux to day, and after dinner went to a Store and
purchased Some Clothes, which we gave to a Tayler and derected to be
made. He is incensed because no invitation has reached tree near the
of form going up him, so sits in papers finds the switch lost
induced by Aponibolinayen.

He is to attend the ceremony,
where shade of to village
spring instead. He he meets with an Suned old enemy, and they fight.
Louis. in the evening a dinner & Ball

[Clark, September 26, 1806]
Friday 26th of September 1806
a fine morning we commenced wrighting &c.