FAR OFF

or, Asia and Australia Described, with Anecdotes and Illustrations

BY THE AUTHOR OF "THE PEEP OF DAY," ETC. ETC. ETC.

NEW YORK

1852


[Illustration: "O ma'am that's sweet! Jesus Christ is OUR Redeemer."]


[Illustration: FAR OFF]


In the Frontispiece may be seen an English lady, who went to live upon
Mount Sion to teach little Jewesses and little Mahomedans to know the
Saviour. That lady has led three of her young scholars to a plain just
beyond the gates of Jerusalem; and while two of them are playing
together, she is listening to little Esther, a Jewess of eight years old.
The child is fond of sitting by her friend, and of hearing about the Son
of David. She has just been singing,

    "Glory, honor, praise, and power,
    Be unto the Lamb forever,
    Jesus Christ is our Redeemer,
    Hallelujah, praise the Lord;"

and now she is saying, "O, ma'am, that's sweet! Jesus Christ is _our_
Redeemer, _our_ Redeemer: no _man_ can redeem his brother, no
_money_,--nothing--but only the precious blood of Christ."


PREFACE.


This little work pleads for the notice of parents and teachers on the
same grounds as its predecessor, "Near Home."

Its plea is not completeness, nor comprehensiveness, nor depth of
research, nor splendor of description; but the very reverse,--its simple,
superficial, desultory character, as better adapted to the volatile
beings for whom it is designed.

Too long have their immortal minds been captivated by the adventures and
achievements of knights and princesses, of fairies and magicians; it is
time to excite their interest in real persons, and real events. In
childhood that taste is formed which leads the youth to delight in
novels, and romances; a taste which has become so general, that every
town has its circulating library, and every shelf in that library is
filled with works of fiction.

While these fascinating inventions are in course of perusal, many a Bible
is unopened, or if opened, hastily skimmed; many a seat in church is
unoccupied, or if occupied, the service, and the sermon disregarded--so
intense is the sympathy of the novel reader with his hero, or his
heroine.

And what is the effect of the perusal? Many a young mind, inflated with a
desire for admiration and adventure, grows tired of home, impatient of
restraint, indifferent to simple pleasures, and averse to sacred
instructions. How important, therefore, early to endeavor to prevent a
taste for FICTION, by cherishing a taste for FACTS.

But this is not the only aim of the present work; it seeks also to excite
an interest in _those_ facts which ought _most_ to interest immortal
beings--facts relative to souls, and their eternal happiness--to God, and
his infinite glory.

These are the facts which engage the attention of the inhabitants of
heaven. We know not whether the births of princes, and the coronations of
monarchs are noticed by the angelic hosts; but we do know that the
repentance of a sinner, be he Hindoo or Hottentot, is celebrated by their
melodious voices in rapturous symphonies.

Therefore "Far Off" desire to interest its little readers in the labors
of missionaries,--men despised and maligned by the world, but honored and
beloved by the SAVIOUR of the world. An account of the scenery and
natives of various countries, is calculated to prepare the young mind for
reading with intelligence those little Missionary Magazines, which appear
every month, written in so attractive a style, and adorned with such
beautiful illustrations. Parents have no longer reason to complain of the
difficulty of finding sacred entertainment for their children on Sunday,
for these pleasing messengers,--if carefully dealt out,--one or two on
each Sabbath, would afford a never failing supply.

To form great and good characters, the mind must be trained to delight in
TRUTH,--not in comic rhymes, in sentimental tales, and skeptical poetry.
The truth revealed in God's Holy Word, should constitute the firm basis
of education; and the works of Creation and Providence the superstructure
while the Divine blessing can alone rear and cement the edifice.

Parents, train up your children to serve God, and to enjoy his presence
forever; and if there be amongst them--an EXTRAORDINARY child, train him
up with extraordinary care, lest instead of doing extraordinary _good_ he
should do extraordinary _evil_, and be plunged into extraordinary misery.

at my door.

The violets may come, the pale wind-flowers blow, And tremble by
the stream at my door; But my dwarf will never cease, until his last
release, From his "Wolf, wolf, wolf!" at the door.

The long sweet April wind may woo the world from grief, And tell the old
tales at my door; The rainbirds in the rain may plead their far refrain,
In the glad young year at my door;
And in the quiet sun, the silly partridge brood In the red pine dust by my
door; Yet my squinting runty dwarf, with his lewd ungodly laugh, Cries
"Wolf, wolf, wolf!" at my door.

I'm his master (and his slave, with his "Wolf, wolf, wolf!")

As he squats in the sun at my door.

There morn and noon and night, with his cuddled low delight, He
watches for the wolf at my door.

The wind may
    parch his
    hide, or
    freeze him
    to the
    bone, While the wolf walks far from the door; Still year on year
he sits, with his five unholy wits, And watches for the wolf at the
door.

But the
    fall of the leaf and the starting of the bud Are the seasons he
loves by the door; Then his blood begins to rouse, this Caliban I
house, And it's "Wolf, wolf, wolf!"

at the door.

In the dread
    lone of
    the night
    I can hear him snuff the sill; Then it's "Wolf, wolf, wolf!"

at the
    door; His damned persistent bark, like a husky's in the dark, His
"Wolf, wolf, wolf!"

at the door.

I have tried
    to rid
    the house of the misbegotten spawn; But he skulks like a shadow
at my door, With the same uncanny glee as when he came to me With
his first cry of wolf at my door.

I curse
    him, and
    he leers;
    I kick him, and
    he whines; But he never leaves the stone at my door.

Peep of day or set of sun, his croaking's never done Of the Red
Wolf of Despair at my door.

But when
    the night is old, and the stars begin to fade, And silence walks
the path by my door, Then is his dearest hour, his most unbridled
power, And low comes his "Wolf!"

at the
    door.
    
    I turn me in my sleep between the night and day, While dreams throng
the yard at my door.

In my strong soul aware of a grewsome terror there Soon to knock
with command at my door.

Is it the hollow voice of the census-taker Time In his old idle
round from door to door?

Or only the north wind, when all the leaves are thinned, Come at
last with his moan to my door?

I cannot
    guess nor
    tell;
    only it
    comes and comes, As from a vaster world beyond my door, From
centuries of eld, the death of freedom knelled, A host of mortal
fears at my door.

Then
    I wake; and joy and youth and fame and love and bliss, And all the
good that ever passed my door, Grow dim, and faint and fade, with
the whole world unmade, To perish as the summer at my door.

The
    crouching
    heart within me quails like a shuddering thing, As I turn on my
pillow to the door; Then in the chill white dawn, when life is half
withdrawn, Comes the dream-curdling "Wolf!"

at my
    door.
    
    Only my yellow dwarf; (my servitor and lord!)

I hear him lift the latch of my door; I see his wobbling chin and
his unrepentant grin, As he lets his oafship in at the door.

He is
    low and humped and foul, and shambles like an ape; And stealthily
he barricades the door, Then lays his goblin head against my lonely
bed, With a "Wolf, wolf, wolf," at the door!

I loathe
    him,
    but I feed him; I'll tell you how it was (Hear him now with his
"Wolf!"

at the
    door!)
    That I ever took him in; he is--he is my kin, And kin to the wolf
at the door!

I loathe him, yet he lives; as God lets Satan live, I suffer him
to slumber at my door, Till that long-looked-for time, that splendid
sudden prime, When Spring shall go in scarlet by my door.

That day I
    will arise, put my heel
    upon his
    throat,
    And squirt his yellow blood upon the door; Then watch him dying
there, like a spider in his lair, With a "Wolf, wolf, wolf!"

at my door.
    
    The great white morning sun shall walk the earth again, And the
children return to my door, I shall hear their merry laugh, and
forget my buried dwarf, As a tale that is told at the door.

Far from the quiet woods the gaunt red wolf shall flee, As a cur
that is stoned from the door; And God's great peace come back along
the lonely track, To fill the golden year at my door.

_The Faithless Lover_ 

I
O Life, dear Life, in this fair house Long since did I, it seems
to me, In some mysterious doleful way Fall out of love with thee.

    For, Life, thou art become a ghost, A memory of days gone by,
    A poor forsaken thing between
    A heartache and a sigh.
    
    And now, with shadows from the
    hills Thronging the twilight, wraith on wraith,
  Unlock the door and let me go To thy dark rival Death!
  

II

O Heart, dear Heart, in this fair house Why hast thou wearied and
grown tired, Between a morning and a night, Of all thy soul desired?

Fond one, who cannot understand Even these shadows on the floor,
Yet must be dreaming of dark loves And joys beyond my door!

But I am beautiful past all The timid tumult of thy mood, And thou returning
not must still Be mine in solitude.

_The Crimson House_
Love built a crimson house, I know it well, That he might have a
home Wherein to dwell.

Poor Love that roved so far And fared so ill, Between the morning star
And the Hollow Hill,
Before he found the vale Where he could bide, With memory and
oblivion Side by side.

He took the silver dew And the dun red clay, And behold when he was
through How fair were they!

The braces of the sky Were in its girth, That it should feel no jar
Of the swinging earth;
That sun and wind might bleach But not destroy The house that he
had builded For his joy.

"Here will I stay," he said, "And roam no more, And dust when I am
dead Shall keep the door."

There trooping dreams by night Go by, go by.

The walls are rosy white In the sun's eye.

The windows are more clear Than sky or sea; He made them after God's
Transparency.

It is a dearer place Than kirk or inn; Such joy on joy as there Has never
been.

There may my longed-for rest And welcome be, When Love himself unbars The
door for me!

[Illustration]
_The Lodger_

I cannot quite recall When first he came, So reticent and tall, With his
eyes of flame.

The neighbors used to say (They know so much!) He looked to them half way
Spanish or Dutch.

Outlandish certainly He is--and queer!
He has been lodged with me This thirty year;
All the while (it seems absurd!)

We hardly have Exchanged a single word.
Mum as the grave!

Minds only his own affairs, Goes out and in, And keeps himself
upstairs With his violin.

Mum did I say?

And yet That talking smile You never can forget, Is all the while

Full of such sweet reproofs The darkest day, Like morning on the
roofs In flush of May.

Like autumn on the hills; At four o'clock The sun like a herdsman spills
For drove and flock
Peace with their provender, And they are fed.

The day without a stir Lies warm and red.

Ah, sir, the summer land For me! That is Like living in God's hand, Compared
to this.

His smile so quiet and deep Reminds me of it.
I see it in my sleep, And so I love it.

An anarchist, say some; But tush, say I, When a man's heart is plumb, Can
his life be awry?

Better than charity And bigger too, That heart. You've seen the sea?
Of course. To you
'T is common enough, no doubt.
But here in town, With God's world all shut out, Save the leaden frown
Of the sky, a slant of rain, And a straggling star, Such memories remain
The wonders they are.

Once at the Isles of Shoals, And it was June . . .
Now hear me dote! He strolls Across my noon,
Like the sun that day, where sleeps My soul; his gaze Goes glimmering
down my deeps Of yesterdays,
Searching and searching, till Its light consumes The reluctant
shapes that fill Those purple glooms.

Let others applaud, defame, And the noise die down; His voice saying your
name, Is enough renown.

Too patient pitiful, Too fierce at wrong, To patronize the dull, Or
praise the strong.

And yet he has a soul Of wrath, though pent Even when that white ghoul Comes
for his rent.

The landlord? Hush! My God!

I think the walls Take notes to help him prod Us up. He galls
My very soul to strife, With his death's-head face.
He is foul too in his life, Some hid disgrace,
Some secret thing he does, I warrant you, For all his cheek to us Is
shaved so blue.

He takes good care (by the shade Of seven wives!) That the undertaker's
trade He lives by thrives.

Nor chick nor child has he.
So servile smug, With that cringe in his knee,-- God curse his lug!

But him, you should have seen Him yesterday; The landlord's smirk turned
green At his smile. The way
He served that bloodless fish, Were like to freeze him.

But meeting elsewhere, pish!
He never sees him.

Yet such a gentleman, So sure and slow.
The vilest harridan Is not too low,

If there is pity's need; And no man born, For cruelty or greed Escapes
that scorn.

Most of all things, it seems, He loves the town.
Watching the bright-faced streams Go up and down,
I have surprised him often On Tremont street, And marked the grave
face soften, The mouth grow sweet,
In a brown study over The men and women.

    An unsuspected rover That, for
    our Common.
    
    When the first jonquils come, And spring is sold On the street
corners, some Of the pretty gold
Is sure to find its way Home in his hand.

And many a winter day At some cab-stand,
He'll watch the cabmen feed The pigeon flocks, Or bid some liner speed
From the icy docks.

His rooms?

I much regret You cannot see His rooms, but they were let With guarantee

Of his seclusion there-- Except myself.
Each morning, table, chair, Lamp, hearth, and shelf,
I rearrange, refreshen, Put all to rights, Then leave him in possession.

Ah, but the nights, 
The nights!

Sir, if I dared But once set eye To keyhole, nor be scared, From playing
Paul Pry,
I doubt not I should learn A wondrous thing Or two; and in return Go
blind till spring.

The light under his door Is glory enough, It outshines any star
That I know of.

Wirrah, my lad, my lad, 'T is fearsome strange, The hints we all
have had Passing the range
Of science, knowledge, law, Or what you will, Whose intangible touch
of awe Makes reason nil.

Many a night I start, Sudden awake, Feeling my smothered heart Flutter
and quake;
Like an aspen at dead of noon, When not a breath Is stirring to trouble
the boon Valley. A wraith
Or a fetch, it must be, shivers The soul of the tree Till every leaf
of it quivers.
And so with me.

Was it the shuffle of feet I heard go by, With muffled drums in the street?

Was it the cry
Of a rider riding the night Into ashes and dawn, With news in his nostrils
and fright Where his hoof-beats had gone?

Did the pipes, at "Bonny Dundee," Bid regiments form?
Did a renegade's soul get free On a wail of the storm?

Did a flock of wild geese honk As they cleared the hill?
Or only a bittern cronk, Then all was still?

Was it a night stampede Of a thousand head?
I know I shook like a reed There on my bed.

Nameless and void and wild Was the fear before me, Ere I bethought
me and smiled As the truth flashed o'er me.

Of course, it was only his hand Freeing the bass Of his old Amati,
grand In the silence' face.

Rummaging up and down, From string to string, Bidding the discords drown,
The harmonies spring,
Where tides and tide-winds rove Far out from land, On the ocean of
music a-move At the will of his hand.

Sobbing and grieving now, Now glad as a bird, Thou, thou, thou Of
the joys unheard,
Luminous radiant sea Of the sounds and time, Surely, surely by thee
Is eternal prime.

Holy and beautiful deep, Spread down before The imperial coming of
sleep, Endure, endure!

And sleep, be thou the ranger Over it wan.
And dream, be thou no stranger There with the dawn.

Then wings of the sun, go abroad As a scarlet desire, Unwearied, unwaning,
unawed, To quest and aspire,
Till the drench of the dusk you drink In the poppy-field west; Then veer
and settle and sink As a gull to her nest.

Wind, Away, away!
And hurry your phantom kind Through the gates of day,
Or ever the king's dark cup With its studs and spars Be inverted, and earth
look up To the shuddering stars.

Blaring and triumphing now, Now quailing and lone, Thou, thou, thou
Of the joys unknown!

Unknown and wild, wild, Where the merrymen be, Sink to sleep, soul of a
child, Slumber, thou sea!

All this his fiddle plays, And many a thing As strange, when his mood so
lays The bow to the string.

Sleepless!

He never sleeps That I can find.
I marvel how he keeps A bit of his mind.

There is neither sight nor sound In the world of sense, But he has
fathomed and found In the silvery tense
Keen cords on the amber wood.
As he wrings them thence, Death smiles at his hardihood For recompense.

Oh fair they are, so fair!
No tongue can tell How he sets them chiming there Clear as a bell.

An orchard of birds in June, The winds that stream, The cold
sea-brooks that croon, The storms that scream,
The planets that float and swing Like buoys on the tide, The
north-going legions in spring, The hills that abide,
The frigate-bird clouds that range, The vagabond moon-- That wilful
lover of change-- And the workaday sun,
Dying summer and fall, Seasons and men And herds, he has them all
In his shadowy ken.

He calls and they come, leaving strife, Leaving discord and death, Out
of oblivion to life, Though its span be a breath.

There they are, all the beautiful things I loved and lost sight of Long
since in the far-away springs, Come back for a night of
New being as good as their old, Aye, better in fact, For somehow
he gilds their fine gold,-- Gives the one thing they lacked,
The breath, aspiration, desire, Core, kindle, control, Memory and
rapture and fire,-- The touch of man's soul.

How know the true master?

I know By my joys and my fears, For my heart crumbles down like the
snow With spring rain into tears.

Now I am a precious one!
With nothing to do But idle here in the sun And gossip with you
Of a stranger you have not seen, As like never will.

I would every soul had a screen, When the wind sets ill
In the world's bleak house, like this Strange lodger of mine.
His presence is worse to miss Than sun's best shine.

I put no thought at all Upon the end, If only I may call Such a man
friend.

And a friend he is, heart light With love for heft, Proud as silence,
whose right Hand ignores his left.

Yes, odd! he gives his name As Spiritus.
But that is vague as a flame In the wind to us.

And then (but not a breath Of this!) you see, All his effects, my
faith!

Are marked D.V.

His cape-coat has a rip, But for all that, (Folk smile, suggest a
dip In the dyer's vat,--
Those purple aldermen Who roll about In coaches, drive till ten, And
die of gout),
I think he finely shows How learning's crumbs At least can rival those
Of-- 'st, here he comes!

_Beyond the Gamut_

Softly, softly, Niccolo Amati!
What can put such fancies in your head?

There, go dream of your blue-skied Cremona, While I ponder something
you have said.

Something in that last low lovely cadence Piercing the green dusk alone and
far, Named a new room in the house of knowledge, Waiting unfrequented,
door ajar.

While you dream then, let me unmolested Pass in childish wonder
through that door,-- Breathless, touch and marvel at the beauties
Soon my wiser elders must explore.

Ah, my Niccolo, it's no great science We shall ever conquer, you and I.
Yet, when you are nestled at my shoulder, Others guess not half
that we descry.

As all sight is but a finer hearing, And all color but a finer sound,
Beauty, but the reach of lyric freedom, Caught and quivering past all
music's bound;
Life, that faint sigh whispered from oblivion, Harks and wonders
if we may not be Five small wits to carry one great rhythmus, The
vast theme of God's new symphony.

    As fine sand spread on a disc of silver, At some chord which bids
the motes combine, Heeding the hidden and reverberant impulse,
Shifts and dances into curve and line,
The round earth, too, haply, like a dust-mote, Was set whirling her
assigned sure way, Round this little orb of her ecliptic To some
harmony she must obey.

Did the Master try the taut string merely, Give a touch, and she
must throb to time?

Think you how his bow must rouse the echoes, Quailing triumphing on,
secure, sublime!

Ah, thought cannot far without the symbol!
Help me, little brother, hold the trend.
Dear good flesh, that keeps the spirit steady, Lest it faint, grown
dizzy at thought's end!

Waves of sound (Is this your thought, Amati?), Climbing into treble
thin and clear, Past the silence, change to waves of color, We must say,
when eye takes place of ear?

Not a bird-song, but it has for fellow Some-wood-flower, its speechless
counterpart, Form and color moulded to one cadence, To voice something
of the wild mute heart.

Thrushes, we'll suppose, have for their tune-mates The gold languorous
lilies of the glade; And the whippoorwill, that plaintive dreamer,
Some dark purple flower that loves the shade.

The song-sparrow tells me what the clover Nods about beneath the gorgeous
blue; While the snowballs tell me old love-stories Thistle-birds half
hinted as they flew.

April's faith, in robin at his vespers, Breathes a prayer too in
my lilac blooms.

What the cloudy asters told the hillside, My lone rainbird in the dusk
resumes.

Bobolink is voice for apple blossom, Breezy, abundant, good for
human joys; Oriole has touched the burning secret Poppies hide with their
deliberate poise.

Tiny twin-flowers, what are they but fancies, Subtler than a field-lark can
express?
Swallows make the low contented twitter Lying just beyond the pansies'
guess.

Yellowbird, the hot noon's warbler, pierces Sense where tiger-lilies may
not pass.
Are not crickets and all field-wise creatures Brahmins of
the universal grass?

Saffron butterflies and mute ephemera, Doubt not, have their songs
too, could we hear.

Every raindrop is a sea sonorous As the great worlds thundering sphere
to sphere.

There's no silence and no dark forever, Clangoring suns to us are
placid stars; Swift-foot lightning with his henchman thunder Lags behind
these gnomes in Leyden jars.

Peal and flash and thrill and scent and savour Pulse through rhythm
to rapture, and control,-- Who shall say how far along or finely?

-- The infinite tectonics of the soul.

Low-bred peoples, Hottentots, Basutos, Have a taste for scarlet and
brass bands.

Our friend Monet, feeling red repulsive, Sees blue shadows in pale purple
lands.

Sees not only, but instructs our seeing; Taught by him a twelvemonth, we
confess Earth once robed in crude barbaric splendor, Has put on a
softer lovelier dress.

Feast my eyes on some old Indian fabric, Centuries of culture went to
weave, And I grow the fine fastidious artist, No mere shop-made
textile can deceive.

Red the bass and violet the treble, Soul may pass out where all color
ends.

Ends? So we say, meaning where the eyesight With some yet unborn perception
blends.

You, Amati, never saw a sunset,-- Hear tornadoes in a spider's loom;
I, at my wits' end, may still develop Unknown senses in life's larger
room.

Superhuman is not supernatural.
How shall half-way judge of journey done?
Shall this germ and protoplast of being Rest mid-life and say his race
is run?

Softly there, my Niccolo, a moment!
Shall I then discard my simpler joys?
No, for look you, every sense's impulse Is a means the master soul
employs.

Test and use of all things, lowest, highest, Are alone of import to the
soul; Joys of earth are journey-aids to heaven, Garb of the new
sainthood sane and whole.

Earth one habitat of spirit merely, I must use as richly as I may,-- Touch
environment with every sense-tip, Drink the well and pass my wander
way.

Ah, drink deep and let the parching morrow Quench what thirst its newer
need may bring!
Slake the senses now, that soul hereafter Go not forth a starved defrauded
thing.

Not for sense sake only, but for soul sake; That when soul must shed
the leaves of sense, Sun and sap may solace and support her, Stored
in those green hours for her defence.

Shall the grub deny himself the rose-leaf That he may be moth before
his time?
Shall the grasshopper repress his drumbeats For small envy of the kingbird's
chime?

Certain half-men, never touched by worship, Soil the goodly feast they
cannot use; Others, maimed too, holding flesh a hindrance, Vilify the
bounty they refuse.

He's most man who loves the purple shadows, Yet must love the flaring
autumn too,-- Follow when the skrieling pipes bid forward, Lie and
gaze for hours into the blue.

He would have gone down with Alexander, Quelling unknown lands beneath
the sun; Watched where Buddha in the Bo tree shadows Saw this life's web
woven and undone;
Freed his stifled heart in Shakespeare's people, Sweet and elemental and
serene; Dared the unknown with Blake and Galileo; Fronted death with
Daulac's seventeen.

So shall mighty peace possess his spirit Whom the noonday leads
alone apart, Through the wind-clear early Indian summer, Where no
yearning more shall move his heart.
Wise and foot-free, of the tranquil tenor, He shall wayfare with
the homeless tides; Time enough, when life allures no longer, To
frequent the tavern death provides.
Life be neither hermitage nor revel; Lent or carnival alone were
vain; Sin and sainthood--Help me, little brother, With your largo
finder-thought again!

Lift, uplift me, higher still and higher!
Climb and pause and tremble and plunge on, Till I, toiling after
you, come breathless Where the mountain tops are touched with
dawn!
Dark this valley world; and drenched with slumber We have kept the
centuries of night.
Cry, Amati, pierce the waiting stillness Tremulous with forecast
of the light!
Cry, Amati! Melt the twilight dirges In "Te Deums" fit for marching
men!
"Good," the days are chorusing, "shall triumph;" Though the far-off
morrows whisper, "When?"
What is good? I hear your soft string answer, "I am that whereon
the round world leans, I am every man's poor guess at wisdom; Evil
is the soul's misuse of means.
"Up through me, with melody and meaning, Well the floods of being
or subside, The first dim desire of self for selfhood, The last
smile that puts all self aside.
"Hate is discord lessening through the ages; Anger a false note,
fear a slackened string.
Key thy soul up to the wiser manhood, Gentler lovelier joy from
spring to spring!"
Here in turn I help you, little brother, Half surmise what you have
half explained.
Store it by to ripen, and repeat it Long hereafter as a glimpse you
gained,
When the nineteenth century was dying, From a strolling hand that
held you dear,--.
Appanage of time put in your keeping For my far-off heritor to
hear.
I imagine how his eye will kindle When he fondles you as I do now,--
Bends above you wooing like a lover, While you yield him all your
heart knows how.
I shall have been dust a thousand summers, But my dear unprofitable
dreams Shall be part of all the good that thrills you In the
oversoul's orchestral themes.
What is good? While God's unfinished opus Multitudinous harmony
obeys, Evil is a dissonance not a discord, Soon to be resolved to
happier phrase,--
From time immemorial permitted, Lest the too sweet melody grow tame,
And, untouched of pathos or of daring, Hearts should never know
what hearts proclaim:
The unstained unconquerable valor, The unflinching loyalties of
love.
Or if evil be at worst a blunder No musician ever could approve,

The mere bungling of a hand that faltered,-- Mine or his who bade
the planets poise,-- What a thing unthinkable for smallness Is your
frayed E string one touch destroys.
How that sea-gull out across the bay there Rows himself at leisure
up the blue!
Evil the mere eddy from his wing-sweep, Good the morning path he
must pursue.
Good, you think, and evil live together, Both persisting on from
change to change Through interminable conservation,-- Primal powers
no ruin can derange?
Deed and accident alike unending By eternal consequence of cause?
No. For good is impetus to Godward; Evil, but our ignorance of
laws.
Say I let you, spite of all endeavor, Mar some nocturne by a single
note; Is there immortality of discord In your failure to preserve
the rote?
When the sound shall pass my sense's confines, Melt away to color
or thin flame, Does it still malinger in the prism, Falsify the
crucible with shame?
Hardly. For the melody and marring, When they put the dear oblivion
on, Are become as fresh clay for the potter, Neither good nor bad,
for use anon.
Blighted rose and perfect shall commingle In one excellence of
garden mould.As she watches the budding vine, she
can think now of Him who said, "I am the true vine." As she sits beneath
the olive-tree, she can call to mind the words, "I am like a green
olive-tree in the house of my God." Angoul is growing like an angel, if
she takes delight in meditating on the word of God.[2]

    [2] Extracted chiefly from the Rev. George Fisk's "Pastor's
        Memorial," and Kinnear's Travels.


ARABIA.


This is the land in which the Israelites wandered for forty years. You
have heard what a dry, dreary, desert place the wilderness was. There is
still a wilderness in Arabia; and there are still wanderers in it; not
Israelites, but Arabs. These men live in tents, and go from place to
place with their large flocks of sheep and goats. But there are other
Arabs who live in towns, as we do.

Do you know who is the father of the Arabs?

The same man who is the father of the Jews.

What, was Abraham their father?

Yes, he was.

Do you remember Abraham's ungodly son, Ishmael?

He was cast out of his father's house for mocking his little brother
Isaac, and he went into Arabia.

And what sort of people are the Arabs?

Wild and fierce people.

Travellers are afraid of passing through Arabia, lest the Arabs should
rob and murder them; and no one has ever been able to conquer the Arabs.
The Arabs are very proud, and will not bear the least affront. Sometimes
one man says to another, "The wrong side of your turban is out." This
speech is considered an affront never to be forgotten. The Arabs are so
unforgiving and revengeful that they will seek to kill a man year after
year. One man was observed to carry about a small dagger. He said his
reason was, he was hoping some day to meet his enemy and kill him.

Of what religion are this revengeful people? The Mahomedan.

Mahomed was an Arab. It is thought a great honor to be descended from
him. Those men who say Mahomed is their father wear a green turban, and
very proud they are of their green turbans, even though they may only be
beggars.

THE ARABIAN WOMEN.--They are shut up like the women in Syria when they
live in towns, but the women in tents are obliged to walk about;
therefore they wear a thick veil over their face, with small holes for
their eyes to peep out.

The poor women wear a long shirt of white or blue; but the rich women
wrap themselves in magnificent shawls. To make themselves handsome, they
blacken their eyelids, paint their nails red, and wear gold rings in
their ears and noses. They delight in fine furniture. A room lined with
looking-glasses, and with a ceiling of looking-glasses, is thought
charming.

ARAB TENTS.--They are black, being made of the hair of black goats. Some
of them are so large that they are divided into three rooms, one for the
cattle, one for the men, and one for the women.

ARAB CUSTOMS.--The Arabs sit on the ground, resting on their heels, and
for tables they have low stools. A large dish of rice and minced mutton
is placed on the table, and immediately every hand is thrust into it; and
in a moment it is empty. Then another dish is brought, and another; and
sometimes fourteen dishes of rice, one after the other, till all the
company are satisfied. They eat very fast, and each retires from dinner as
soon as he likes, without waiting for the rest. After dinner they drink
water, and a small cup of coffee without milk or sugar. Then they smoke
for many hours.

The Arabs do not indulge in eating or drinking too much, and this is one
of the best parts of their character.

[Illustration: CAMELS.]


THE THREE EVILS OF ARABIA.

The first evil is want of water. There is no river in Arabia: and the
small streams are often dried up by the heat.

The second evil is many locusts, which come in countless swarms, and
devour every green thing.

The third evil is the burning winds. When a traveller feels it coming, he
throws himself on the ground, covering his face with his cloak, lest the
hot sand should be blown up his nostrils. Sometimes men and horses are
choked by this sand.

These are the three great evils; but there is a still greater, the
religion of Mahomed: for this injures the soul; the other evils only hurt
the body.


THE THREE ANIMALS OF ARABIA.

The animals for which Arabia is famous are animals to ride upon.

Two of them are often seen in England; though here they are not nearly as
fine as in Arabia; but the third animal is never used in England. Most
English boys have ridden upon an ass. In Arabia the ass is a handsome and
spirited creature. The horse is strong and swift, and yet obedient and
gentle. The camel is just suited to Arabia. His feet are fit to tread
upon the burning sands; because the soles are more like India-rubber than
like flesh: his hard mouth, lined with horn, is not hurt by the prickly
plants of the desert; and his hump full of fat is as good to him as a bag
of provisions: for on a journey the fat helps to support him, and enables
him to do with very little food. Besides all this, his inside is so made
that he can live without water for three days.

A dromedary is a swifter kind of camel, and is just as superior to a
camel as a riding-horse is to a cart-horse.


THE THREE PRODUCTIONS OF ARABIA.

These are coffee, dates, and gums.

For these Arabia is famous.

The coffee plants are shrubs. The hills are covered with them; the white
blossoms look beautiful among the dark green leaves, and so do the red
berries.

The dates grow on the palm-trees; and they are the chief food of the
Arabs. The Arabs despise those countries where there are no dates.

There are various sweet-smelling gums that flow from Arabian trees.


THE THREE PARTS OF ARABIA.

You see from what I have just said that there are plants and trees in
Arabia. Then it is clear that the whole land is not a desert. No, it is
not; there is only a part called Desert Arabia; that is on the north.
There is a part in the middle almost as bad, called Stony Arabia, yet
some sweet plants grow there; but there is a part in the south called
Happy Arabia, where grow abundance of fragrant spices, and of
well-flavored coffee.


THE THREE CITIES OF ARABIA.

Arabia has long been famous for three cities, called Mecca, Medina, and
Mocha.

_Mecca_ is considered the holiest city in the world. And why? Because the
false prophet Mahomed was born there. On that account Mahomedans come
from all parts of the world to worship in the great temple there.
Sometimes Mecca is as full of people as a hive is full of bees.

Of all the cities in the East, Mecca is the gayest, because the houses
have windows looking into the streets. In these houses are lodgings for
the pilgrims.

And what is it the pilgrims worship?

A great black stone, which they say the angel Gabriel brought down from
heaven as a foundation for Mahomed's house. They kiss it seven times, and
after each kiss they walk round it.

Then they bathe in a well, which they say is the well the angel showed to
Hagar in the desert, and they think the waters of this well can wash away
all their sins. Alas! they know not of the blood which can wash away
_all_ sin.

_Medina_ contains the tomb of Mahomed; yet it is not thought so much of
as Mecca. Perhaps the Mahomedans do not like to be reminded that Mahomed
died like any other man, and never rose again.

_Mocha_.--This is a part whence very fine coffee is sent to Europe.


TRAVELS IN THE DESERT.

Of all places in Arabia, which would you desire most to see? Would it not
be Mount Sinai? Our great and glorious God once spoke from the top of
that mountain.

I will tell you of an English clergyman who travelled to see that
mountain. As he knew there were many robbers on the way, he hired an Arab
sheikh to take care of him. A sheikh is a chief, or captain. Suleiman
was a fine-looking man, dressed in a red shirt, with a shawl twisted
round his waist, a purple cloak, and a red cap. His feet and legs were
bare. His eyes were bright, his skin was brown, and his beard black. To
his girdle were fastened a huge knife and pistols, and by his side hung a
sword. This man brought a band of Arabs with him to defend the travellers
from the robbers in the desert.

One day the whole party set out mounted on camels. After going some
distance, a number of children were seen scampering among the rocks, and
looking like brown monkeys. These were the children of the Arabs who
accompanied the Englishman. The wild little creatures ran to their
fathers, and saluted them in the respectful manner that Arab children are
taught to do.

At last a herd of goats was seen with a fine boy of twelve years old
leading them. He was the son of Suleiman. The father seemed to take great
delight in this boy, and introduced him to the traveller. The kind
gentleman riding on a camel, put down his hand to the boy. The little
fellow, after touching the traveller's hand, kissed his own, according to
the Arabian manner.

The way to Mount Sinai was very rough; indeed, the traveller was
sometimes obliged to get off his camel, and to climb among the crags on
hands and knees. How glad he was when the Arabs pointed to a mountain,
and said, "That is Mount Sinai." With what fear and reverence he gazed
upon it! Here it was that the voice of the great God was once heard
speaking out of the midst of the smoke, and clouds, and darkness!

How strange it must be to see in this lonely gloomy spot, a great
building! Yet there is one at the foot of the mountain. What can it be? A
convent. See those high walls around. It is necessary to have high walls,
because all around are bands of fierce robbers. It is even unsafe to have
a door near the ground. There is a door quite high up in the wall; but
what use can it be of, when there are no steps by which to reach it? Can
you guess how people get in by this door? A rope is let down from the
door to draw the people up. One by one they are drawn up. In the inside
of the walls there are steps by which travellers go down into the convent
below. The monks who live there belong to the Greek church.

The clergyman was lodged in a small cell spread with carpets and
cushions, and he was waited upon by the monks.

These monks think that they lead a very holy life in the desert. They eat
no meat, and they rise in the night to pray in their chapel. But God does
not care for such service as this. He never commanded men to shut
themselves up in a desert, but rather to do good in the world.

One day the monks told the traveller they would show him the place where
the burning bush once stood. How could they know the place? However, they
pretended to know it. They led the way to the chapel, then taking off
their shoes, they went down some stone steps till they came to a round
room under ground, with three lamps burning in the midst. "There," said
the monks, "is the very spot where the burning bush once stood."

There were two things the traveller enjoyed while in the convent, the
beautiful garden full of thick trees and sweet flowers; and the cool pure
water from the well. Such water and such a garden in the midst of a
desert were sweet indeed.

The Arabs, who accompanied the traveller, enjoyed much the plentiful
meals provided at the convent; for the monks bought sheep from the
shepherds around, to feed their guests. After leaving the convent,
Suleiman was taken ill in consequence of having eaten too much while
there. The clergyman gave him medicine, which cured him. The Arabs were
very fond of their chief, and were so grateful to the stranger for giving
him in medicine, that they called him "the good physician." Suleiman
himself showed his gratitude by bringing his own black coffee-pot into
the tent of the stranger, and asking him to drink coffee with him; for
such is the pride of an Arab chief, that he thinks it is a very great
honor indeed for a stranger to share his meal.

But the traveller soon found that it is dangerous to pass through a
desert. Why? Not on account of wild beasts, but of wild men. There was a
tribe of Arabs very angry with Suleiman, because he was conducting the
travellers through _their_ part of the desert. They wanted to be the
guides through that part, in hopes of getting rewarded by a good sum of
money. You see how covetous they were. The love of money is the root of
all evil.

These angry Arabs were hidden among the rocks and hills; and every now
and then they came suddenly out of their hiding-places, and with a loud
voice threatened to punish Suleiman.

How much alarmed the travellers were! but none more than Suleiman
himself. He requested the clergyman to travel during the whole night, in
order the sooner to get out of the reach of the enemy. The clergyman
promised to go as far as he was able. What a journey it was! No one durst
speak aloud to his companions, lest the enemies should be hidden among
the rocks close by, and should overhear them. At midnight the whole
company pitched their tents by the coast of the Red Sea. Early in the
morning the minister went alone to bathe in its smooth waters. After he
had bathed, and when he was just going to return to the tents, he was
startled by hearing the sound of a gun. The sound came from the midst of
a small grove of palm-trees close by. Alarmed, he ran back quickly to the
tents: again he heard the report of a gun: and again a third time. The
travellers, Arabs and all, were gathered together, expecting an enemy to
rush out of the grove. But where was Suleiman? He had gone some time
before into the grove of palm-trees to talk to the enemies.

Presently the traveller saw about forty Arabs leave the grove and go far
away. But Suleiman came not. So the minister went into the grove to
search for him, and there he found---not Suleiman--but his dead body!

There it lay on the ground, covered with blood. The minister gazed upon
the dark countenance once so joyful, and he thought it looked as if the
poor Arab had died in great agony. It was frightful to observe the number
of his wounds. Three balls had been shot into his body by the gun which
went off three times. Three great cuts had been made in his head; his
neck was almost cut off from his head, and his hand from his arm! How
suddenly was the proud Arab laid low in the dust! All his delights were
perished forever. Suleiman had been promised a new dress of gay colors at
the end of the journey; but he would never more gird a shawl round his
active frame, or fold a turban round his swarthy brow. The Arabs wrapped
their beloved master in a loose garment, and placing him on his beautiful
camel, they went in deep grief to a hill at a little distance. There they
buried him. They dug no grave; but they made a square tomb of large loose
stones, and laid the dead body in the midst, and then covered it with
more stones. There Suleiman sleeps in the desert. by Lamson, Wolffe, &
Co.
All rights reserved.

    
        Contents

Behind the Arras 1 Fancy's Fool 16 The Moondial 19 The Face in the
Stream 23 The Cruise of the Galleon 29 A Song before Sailing 32 In
the Wings 35 The Red Wolf 37 The Faithless Lover 44 The Crimson
House 46 The Lodger 49 Beyond the Gamut 66 The Juggler 81 Hack and
Hew 85 The Night Express 87 The Dustman 91 The Sleepers 94 At the
Granite Gate 96 Exit Anima 100 

To G.

H. B.

"I shut myself in with my soul, And the shapes come eddying forth."

[Illustration: Behind the Arras]

_Behind the Arras_

I like the old house tolerably well, Where I must dwell Like a familiar
gnome; And yet I never shall feel quite at home:
I love to roam.

Day after day I loiter and explore From door to door; So many treasures
lure The curious mind. What histories obscure They must immure!

I hardly know which room I care for best; This fronting west, With the
strange hills in view, Where the great sun goes,--where I may go
too, When my lease is through,--
Or this one for the morning and the east, Where a man may feast His
eyes on looming sails, And be the first to catch their foreign hails
Or spy their bales.

Then the pale summer twilights towards the pole!

It thrills my soul With wonder and delight, When gold-green shadows walk
the world at night, So still, so bright.

There at the window many a time of year, Strange faces peer, Solemn though
not unkind, Their wits in search of something left behind Time out
of mind;
As if they once had lived here, and stole back To the window crack
For a peep which seems to say, "Good fortune, brother, in your house
of clay!"

And then, "Good day!"
I hear their footsteps on the gravel walk, Their scraps of talk, And hurrying
after, reach Only the crazy sea-drone of the beach In endless speech.

And often when the autumn noons are still, By swale and hill I see
their gipsy signs, Trespassing somewhere on my border lines; With
what designs?

I forth afoot; but when I reach the place, Hardly a trace, Save the soft
purple haze Of smouldering camp-fires, any hint betrays Who went
these ways.

Or tatters of pale aster blue, descried By the roadside, Reveal whither
they fled; Or the swamp maples, here and there a shred Of Indian
red.

But most of all, the marvellous tapestry Engrosses me, Where such strange
things are rife, Fancies of beasts and flowers, and love and strife, Woven
to the life;
Degraded shapes and splendid seraph forms, And teeming swarms Of
creatures gauzy dim That cloud the dusk, and painted fish that swim,
At the weaver's whim;
And wonderful birds that wheel and hang in the air; And beings with
hair, And moving eyes in the face, And white bone teeth and hideous
grins, who race From place to place;
They build great temples to their John-a-nod, And fume and plod To
deck themselves with gold, And paint themselves like chattels to
be sold, Then turn to mould.

Sometimes they seem almost as real as I; I hear them sigh; I see them
bow with grief, Or dance for joy like an aspen leaf; But that is
brief.

They have mad wars and phantom marriages; Nor seem to guess There
are dimensions still, Beyond thought's reach, though not beyond
love's will, For soul to fill.

And some I call my friends, and make believe Their spirits grieve,
Brood, and rejoice with mine; I talk to them in phrases quaint and fine
Over the wine;
I tell them all my secrets; touch their hands; One understands Perhaps.
How hard he tries To speak! And yet those glorious mild eyes, His best
replies!

I even have my cronies, one or two, My cherished few.
But ah, they do not stay!

For the sun fades them and they pass away, As I grow gray.

Yet while they last how actual they seem!

Their faces beam; I give them all their names, Bertram and Gilbert,
Louis, Frank and James, Each with his aims; One thinks he is a poet, and
writes verse His friends rehearse; Another is full of law; A third
sees pictures which his hand can draw Without a flaw.

Strangest of all, they never rest. Day long They shift and throng, Moved
by invisible will, Like a great breath which puffs across my sill, And
then is still;
It shakes my lovely manikins on the wall; Squall after squall, Gust
upon crowding gust, It sweeps them willy nilly like blown dust With
glory or lust.

It is the world-ghost, the time-spirit, come None knows where from, The
viewless draughty tide And wash of being. I hear it yaw and glide, And
then subside,
Along these ghostly corridors and halls Like faint footfalls; The
hangings stir in the air; And when I start and challenge, "Who goes
there?"

It answers, "Where?"
The wail and sob and moan of the sea's dirge, Its plangor and surge;
The awful biting sough Of drifted snows along some arctic bluff,
That veer and luff,
And have the vacant boding human cry, As they go by;-- Is it a
banished soul Dredging the dark like a distracted mole Under a
knoll?

Like some invisible henchman old and gray, Day after day I hear it come
and go, With stealthy swift unmeaning to and fro, Muttering low,
Ceaseless and daft and terrible and blind, Like a lost mind.

I often chill with fear When I bethink me, What if it should peer At
my shoulder here!

Perchance he drives the merry-go-round whose track Is the zodiac; His name
is No-man's-friend; And his gabbling parrot-talk has neither trend,
Beginning, nor end.

A prince of madness too, I'd cry, "A rat!" And lunge thereat,-- Let
out at one swift thrust The cunning arch-delusion of the dust I so mistrust,

But that I fear I should disclose a face Wearing the trace Of my own
human guise, Piteous, unharmful, loving, sad, and wise, With the
speaking eyes.

I would the house were rid of his grim pranks, Moaning from banks
Of pine trees in the moon, Startling the silence like a demoniac
loon At dead of noon,
Or whispering his fool-talk to the leaves About my eaves.

And yet how can I know 'T is not a happy Ariel masking so In mocking
woe?

Then with a little broken laugh I say, Snatching away The curtain
where he grinned (My feverish sight thought) like a sin unsinned,
"Only the wind!"

Yet often too he steals so softly by, With half a sigh, I deem he must be
mild, Fair as a woman, gentle as a child, And forest wild.

Passing the door where an old wind-harp swings, With its five strings,
Contrived long years ago By my first predecessor bent to show His
handcraft so,
He lays his fingers on the æolian wire, As a core of fire Is laid upon
the blast To kindle and glow and fill the purple vast Of dark at
last.

Weird wise and low, piercing and keen and glad, Or dim and sad As a
forgotten strain Born when the broken legions of the rain Swept through
the plain--
He plays, like some dread veiled mysteriarch, Lighting the dark, Bidding
the spring grow warm, The gendering merge and loosing of spirit in
form, Peace out of storm.

For music is the sacrament of love; He broods above The virgin silence,
till She yields for rapture shuddering, yearning still To his sweet
will.

I hear him sing, "Your harp is like a mesh, Woven of flesh And
spread within the shoal Of life, where runs the tide-race of the
soul In my control.

"Though my wild way may ruin what it bends, It makes amends To the
frail downy clocks, Telling their seed a secret that unlocks The
granite rocks.

"The womb of silence to the crave sound Is heaven unfound, Till I,
to soothe and slake Being's most utter and imperious ache, Bid
rhythm awake.

"If with such agonies of bliss, my kin, I enter in Your prison house
of sense, With what a joyous freed intelligence I shall go hence."

I need no more to guess the weaver's name, Nor ask his aim, Who hung
each hall and room With swarthy-tinged vermilion upon gloom; I know that
loom.

Give me a little space and time enough, From ravelings rough I could
revive, reweave, A fabric of beauty art might well believe Were past
retrieve.

O men and women in that rich design, Sleep-soft, sun-fine, Dew-tenuous
and free, A tone of the infinite wind-themes of the sea, Borne in to
me,

Reveals how you were woven to the might Of shadow and light.
You are the dream of One Who loves to haunt and yet appears to shun
My door in the sun;
As the white roving sea tern fleck and skim The morning's rim; Or
the dark thrushes clear Their flutes of music leisurely and sheer,
Then hush to hear.

I know him when the last red brands of day Smoulder away, And when the
vernal showers Bring back the heart to all my valley flowers In the soft
hours.

O hand of mine and brain of mine, be yours, While time endures, To
acquiesce and learn!

For what we best may dare and drudge and yearn, Let soul discern.

So, fellows, we shall reach the gusty gate, Early or late, And part
without remorse, A cadence dying down unto its source In music's
course;
You to the perfect rhythms of flowers and birds, Colors and words,
The heart-beats of the earth, To be remoulded always of one worth
From birth to birth;
I to the broken rhythm of thought and man, The sweep and span Of
memory and hope About the orbit where they still must grope For
wider scope,
To be through thousand springs restored, renewed, With love imbrued,
With increments of will Made strong, perceiving unattainment still
From each new skill.

Always the flawless beauty, always the chord Of the Overword, Dominant,
pleading, sure, No truth too small to save and make endure.
No good too poor!

And since no mortal can at last disdain That sweet refrain, But lets go
strife and care, Borne like a strain of bird notes on the air, The
wind knows where;
Some quiet April evening soft and strange, When comes the change
No spirit can deplore, I shall be one with all I was before, In
death once more.

_Fancy's Fool_

"Cornel, cornel, green and white, Spreading on the forest floor,
Whither went my lost delight Through the silent door?"

"Mortal, mortal, overfond, How come you at all to know There be any joys
beyond Blisses here and now?"
"Cornel, cornel, white and cool, Many a mortal, I've heard tell, Who is
only Fancy's fool Knows that secret well."
"Mortal, mortal, what would you With that beauty once was yours?

Perishable is the dew, And the dust endures."
"Cornel, cornel, pierce me not With your sweet, reserved disdain!

Whisper me of things forgot That shall be again."
"Mortal, we are kinsmen, led By a hope beyond our reach.
Know you not the word unsaid Is the flower of speech?"
All the snowy blossoms faded, While the scarlet berries grew; And all
summer they evaded Anything they knew.

"Cornel, cornel, green and red Flooring for the forest wide, Whither down
the ways of dread Went my starry-eyed?"
"Mortal, mortal, is there found Any fruitage half so fair In the dim world
underground As there grows in air?"
"Wilding cornel, you can guess Nothing of eternal pain, Growing there in
quietness In the sun and rain."

"Mortal, where your heart would be Not a wanderer may go, But he shares
the dark with me Underneath the snow."
And the scarlet berries scattered With the coming on of fall; Not to one
of them it mattered Anything at all.

[Illustration]
_The Moondial_

Iron and granite and rust, In a crumbling garden old, Where the roses are
paler than dust And the lilies are green with gold,
Under the racing moon, Inconscious of war or crime, In a strange and
ghostly noon, It marks the oblivion of time.

The shadow steals through its arc, Still as a frosted breath, Fitful,
gleaming, and dark As the cold frustration of death.

But where the shadow may fall, Whether to hurry or stay, It matters
little at all To those who come that way.

    For this is the dial of them That have forgotten the world, No
        more through the mad day-dream Of striving and reason hurled.

Their heart as a little child Only remembers the worth Of beauty
and love and the wild Dark peace of the elder earth.

It registers the morrows Of lovers and winds and streams, And the face
of a thousand sorrows At the postern gate of dreams.

When the first low laughter smote Through Lilith, the mother of
joy, And died and revived from the throat Of Helen, the harpstring of
Troy,
And wandering on through the years, From the sobbing rain and the sea,
Caught sound of the world's gray tears Or sense of the sun's gold glee,

Whenever the wild control Burned out to a mortal kiss, And the shuddering
storm-swept soul Climbed to its acme of bliss,
The green-gold light of the dead Stood still in purple space, And
a record blind and dread Was graved on the dial's face.

And once in a thousand years Some youth who loved so well The gods
had loosed him from fears In a vision of blameless hell,
Has gone to the dial to read Those signs in the outland tongue,
Written beyond the need Of the simple and the young.

For immortal life, they say, Were his who, loving so, Could explain
the writing away As a legend written in snow.

But always his innocent eyes Were frozen into the stone.

From that awful first surprise His soul must return alone.

In the morning there he lay Dead in the sun's warm gold.
And no man knows to this day What the dim moondial told.

[Illustration]
_The Face in the Stream_

The sunburnt face in the willow shade To the face in the water-mirror said,

"O deep mysterious face in the stream, Art thou myself or am I thy dream?"

And the face deep down in the water's side To the face in the upper
air replied,
"I am thy dream, them poor worn face, And this is thy heart's abiding
place.

"Too much in the world, come back and be Once more my dream-fellow with
me,
"In the far-off untarnished years Before thy furrows were washed with
tears,
"Or ever thy serious creature eyes Were aged with a mist of memories.

"Hast thou forgotten the long ago In the garden where I used to
flow,

"Among the hills, with the maple tree And the roses blowing over me?--
"I who am now but a wraith of this river, Forsaken of thee forever and
ever,
"Who then was thine image fair, forecast In the heart of the water
rimpling past.

"Out in the wide of the summer zone I lulled and allured thee apart
and alone,
"The azure gleam and the golden croon And the grass with the flaky
roses strewn.

"There you would lie and lean above me, The more you lingered the more to
love me,
"Till I became, as the year grew old, Thy fairest day-dream's fashion
and mould,
"Deep in the water twilight there, Smiling, elusive, wonderful, fair,

"The beautiful visage of thy clear soul Set in eternity's limpid shoal,

"Thy spirit's countenance, the trace Of dawning God in the human
face.

"And when yellow leaves came down Through the silent mornings one
by one
"To the frosty meadow, as they fell Thy pondering heart said, 'All
is well;
"'Aye, all is best, for I stake my life Beyond the boundaries of
strife,'
"And then thy feet returned no more,-- While years went over the
garden floor,
"With frost and maple, with rose and dew, In the world thy river
wandered through;--
"Came never again to revive and recall Thy youth from its water
burial.

"But now thy face is battle-dark; The strife of the world has graven a mark

"About the lips that are no more mine, Too sweet to forget, too strong to
repine.

"With the ends of the earth for thy garden now, What solace and what reward
hast thou?"
Then he of the earth's sun-traversed side To him of the under-world
replied,
"O glad mysterious face in the stream, My lost illusion, my summer
dream,
"Thou fairer self of a fonder time, A far imperishable clime,
"For thy dear sake I have fared alone And fronted failure and housed
with none.

"What youth was that, when the world was green, In the lovely mythus Greek
and clean,
"Was doomed with his flowery kin to bide, A blown white star by the
river side,
"And no more follow the sun, foot free, Too long enamoured of one
like thee?

"Shall God who abides in the patient flower, The painted dust sustained
by his power,
"Refuse to the wing of the dragonfly His sanction over the open sky,--

"A frail detached and wandering thing Torn loose from the blossomy life
of spring?

"And this is man, the myriad one, Dust's flower and time's ephemeron.

"And I who have followed the wander-list For a glimpse of beauty, a
wraith in the mist,
"Shall be spilt at last and return to peace, As dust which the hands of
the wind release.

"This is my solace and my reward, Who have drained life's dregs from a
broken shard."
Wise and grave was the water face, A youth grown man in a little space;

While the wayworn face by the river side Grew gentler-lipped and
shadowy-eyed;

For he heard like a sea-horn summoning him That sound from the
world's end vast and dim,
Where the river went wandering out so far Through a gate in the
mountain left ajar,
The sea birds love and the land birds flee, The large bleak voice
of the burly sea.

[Illustration]
_The Cruise of the Galleon_
This laboring vast, Tellurian Galleon, Riding at anchor off the orient
sun, Had broken its cable, and stood out to space.

FRANCIS THOMPSON.

Galleon, ahoy, ahoy!
Old earth riding off the sun, And straining at your cable as you ride On
the tide, Battered laboring and vast, In the blast Of the
hurricane that blows between the worlds, Ahoy!

'Morning, shipmates! 'Drift and chartless?
Laded deep and rolling hard?
Never guessed, outworn and heartless, There was land so close aboard?

Ice on every shroud and eyelet, Rocking in the windy trough?

No more panic; Man's your pilot; Turns the flood, and we are off!

At the story of disaster, From the continents of sleep, I am come
to be your master And put out into the deep.

What tide current struck you hither, Beating up the storm of years?
Where are those who stood to weather These uncharted gulfs of tears?

Did your fellows all drive under In the maelstrom of the sun, While
you only, for a wonder, Rode the wash you could not shun?

We'll crowd sail across the sea-line,-- Clear this harbor, reef and buoy,
Bowling down an open bee-line For the latitudes of joy;
Till beyond the zones of sorrow, Past griefs haven in the night, Some
large simpler world shall morrow This pale region's northern light.

Not a fear but all the sea-room, Wherein time is but a bay, Yet
shall sparkle for our lee-room In the vast Altrurian day.

And the dauntless seaworn spirit Shall awake to know there are What
dominions to inherit, Anchored off another star!

[Illustration]
_A Song Before Sailing_ 
"Cras ingens iterabimus aequor."
Wind of the dead men's feet, Blow down the empty street Of this old
city by the sea With news for me!
Blow me beyond the grime And pestilence of time!
I am too sick at heart to war With failure any more.
Thy chill is in my bones; The moonlight on the stones Is pale, and
palpable, and cold; I am as one grown old.
I call from room to room Through the deserted gloom; The echoes are
all words I know, Lost in some long ago.
I prowl from door to door, And find no comrade more.
The wolfish fear that children feel Is snuffing at my heel.
I hear the hollow sound Of a great ship coming round, The thunder
of tackle and the tread Of sailors overhead.
That stormy-blown hulloo Has orders for me, too.
I see thee, hand at mouth, and hark, My captain of the dark.
O wind of the great East, By whom we are released From this strange
dusty port to sail Beyond our fellows' hail,
Under the stars that keep The entry of the deep, Thy somber voice
brings up the sea's Forgotten melodies;
And I have no more need Of bread, or wine, or creed, Bound for the
colonies of time Beyond the farthest prime.
Wind of the dead men's feet, Blow through the empty street!
The last adventurer am I, Then, world, good-by!
_In the Wings_
The play is Life; and this round earth, The narrow stage whereon
We act before an audience Of actors dead and gone.
There is a figure in the wings That never goes away, And though I
cannot see his face, I shudder while I play.
His shadow looms behind me here, Or capers at my side; And when I
mouth my lines in dread, Those scornful lips deride.
Sometimes a hooting laugh breaks out, And startles me alone; While
all my fellows, wondering At my stage-fright, play on.
I fear that when my Exit comes, I shall encounter there, Stronger
than fate, or time, or love, And sterner than despair,
The Final Critic of the craft, As stage tradition tells; And
yet--perhaps 'twill only be The jester with his bells.
[Illustration] 
_The Red Wolf_
With the fall of the leaf comes the wolf, wolf, wolf, The old red
wolf at my door.
And my hateful yellow dwarf, with his hideous crooked laugh, Cries
"Wolf, wolf, wolf!" at my door.
With the still of the frost comes the wolf, wolf, wolf, The gaunt
red wolf at my door.
He's as tall as a Great Dane, with his grizzly russet mane; And he
haunts the silent woods at my door.
The scarlet maple leaves and the sweet ripe nuts, May strew the
forest glade at my door, But my cringing cunning dwarf, with his
slavered kacking laugh, Cries "Wolf, wolf, wolf!"They are
returning from Mecca, the birth-place of Mahomet. What good have they got
by their pilgrimage? None at all. They think they are grown very holy,
but they make such an uproar at the inns by quarrelling and fighting when
they are travelling home, that no one can bear to be near them.

There is a set of beggars called dervishes. They call themselves very
holy, and think people are bound to give money to such holy men. They are
so bold that sometimes they refuse to leave a place till some money has
been given.

Once a dervish stopped a long while before the house of the English
ambassador, and refused to go away. But a plan was thought of to _make_
him go away.

The dervish was sitting in a little niche in the wall. The ambassador
ordered his servants to build up bricks to shut the dervish in. The men
began to build, yet the dervish would not stir, till the bricks came up
as high as his chin: then he began to be frightened, and said he would
rather go away.

THE KING OF PERSIA.--He is called King of Kings. What a name for a man!
It is the title of God alone. The king sits on a marble throne, and his
garments sparkle with jewels of dazzling brightness. The walls of his
state-chamber are covered with looking-glasses. One side of the room
opens into a court adorned with flowers and fountains. Great part of his
time is spent in amusements, such as hunting and shooting, writing
verses, and hearing stories. He keeps a man called a story-teller, and he
will never hear the same story repeated twice. It gives the man a great
deal of trouble to find new stories every day. The king keeps jesters,
who make jokes; and he has mimics, who play antics to make him laugh. He
dines at eight in the evening from dishes of pure gold. No one is allowed
to dine with him; but two of his little boys wait upon him, and his
physician stands by to advise him not to eat too much.

Do you think he is happy in all his grandeur? Judge for yourself.

All his golden dishes come up covered and sealed. Why? For fear of
poison. There is a chief officer in the kitchen who watches the cook, to
see that he puts no poison into the food: and he seals up the dishes
before they are taken to the king, in order that the servants may not put
in poison as they are carrying them along. In what fear this great king
lives! He cannot trust his own servants.

TEHERAN.--This is the royal city. It is built in a barren plain, and is
exceedingly hot, as the hills around keep off the air. It is a mean
city, for it is chiefly built of mud huts.

The king's palace is called the "Ark," and is a very strong as well as
grand place.[5]

    [5] Extracted chiefly from Southgate's Travels.


CHINA.


There is no country in the world like China.

How different it is from Persia, where there are so few people; whereas
China is crowded with inhabitants!

How different it is from England, where the people are instructed in the
Bible, whereas China is full of idols.

China is a heathen country; yet it is not a savage country, for the
people are quiet, and orderly, and industrious.

It would be hard for a child to imagine what a great multitude of people
there are in China.

If you were to sit by a clock, and if all the Chinese were to pass before
you one at a time, and if you were to count one at each tick of the
clock, and if you were never to leave off counting day or night--how long
do you think it would be before you had counted all the Chinese?

Twelve years. O what a vast number of people there must be in China! In
all, there are about three hundred and sixty millions! If all the people
in the world were collected together, out of every three one would be a
Chinese. How sad it is to think that this immense nation knows not God,
nor his glorious Son!

There are too many people in China, for there is not food enough for them
all; and many are half-starved.

FOOD.--The poor can get nothing but rice to eat and water to drink;
except now and then they mix a little pork or salt fish with their rice.
Any sort of meat is thought good; even a hash of rats and snakes, or a
mince of earth-worms. Cats and dogs' flesh are considered as nice as
pork, and cost as much.

An Englishman was once dining with a Chinaman, and he wished to know what
sort of meat was on his plate. But he was not able to speak Chinese. How
then could he ask? He thought of a way. Looking first at his plate, and
then at the Chinaman, he said, "Ba-a-a," meaning to ask, "Is this
mutton?" The Chinaman understood the question, and immediately replied,
"Bow-wow," meaning to say, "It is puppy-dog." You will wish to know
whether the Englishman went on eating; but I cannot tell you this.

While the poor are in want of food, the rich eat a great deal too much. A
Chinese feast in a rich man's house lasts for hours. The servants bring
in one course after another, till a stranger wonders when the last course
will come. The food is served up in a curious way; not on dishes, but in
small basins--for all the meats are swimming in broth. Instead of a knife
and fork, each person has a pair of chop-sticks, which are something like
knitting-needles; and with these he cleverly fishes up the floating
morsels, and pops them into his mouth. There are spoons of china for
drinking the broth.

You will be surprised to hear that the Chinese are very fond of eating
birds' nests. Do not suppose that they eat magpies' nests, which are made
of clay and sticks, or even little nests of moss and clay; the nests they
eat are made of a sort of gum. This gum comes out of the bird's mouth,
and is shining and transparent, and the nest sticks fast to the rock.
These nests are something like our jelly, and must be very nourishing.

The Chinese like nothing cold; they warm all their food, even their wine.
For they have wine, not made of grapes, but of rice, and they drink it,
not in glasses, but in cups. Tea, however, is the most common drink; for
China is the country where tea grows.

The hills are covered with shrubs bearing a white flower, a little like a
white rose. They are tea-plants. The leaves are picked; each leaf is
rolled up with the finger, and dried on a hot iron plate.

The Chinese do not keep all the tea-leaves; they pack up a great many in
boxes, and send them to distant lands. In England and in Russia there is
a tea-kettle in every cottage. Some of the Chinese are so very poor that
they cannot buy new tea-leaves, but only tea-leaves which ire sold in
shops. I do not think in England poor people would buy old tea-leaves.
Some very poor Chinese use fern-leaves instead of tea-leaves.

The Chinese do not make tea in the same way that we do. They have no
teapot, or milk-jug, or sugar-basin. They put a few tea-leaves in a cup,
pour hot water on them, and then put a cover on the cup till the tea is
ready. Whenever you pay a visit in China a cup of tea is offered.

APPEARANCE.--The Chinese are not at all like the other natives of Asia.
The Turks and Arabs are fine-looking men, but the Chinese are
poor-looking creatures. You have seen their pictures on their boxes of
tea, for they are fond of drawing pictures of themselves.

Their complexion is rather yellow, but many of the ladies, who keep in
doors, are rather fair. They have black hair, small dark eyes, broad
faces, flat noses, and high cheek-bones. In general they are short. The
men like to be stout; and the rich men are stout: the fatter they are,
the more they are admired: but the women like to be slender.

A Chinaman does not take off his cap in company, and he has a good reason
for it: his head is close shaven: only a long piece behind is allowed to
grow, and this grows down to his heels, and is plaited. He wears a long
dark blue gown, with loose hanging sleeves. His shoes are clumsy, turned
up at the toes in an ugly manner, and the soles are white. The Chinese
have more trouble in whitening their shoes than we have in blacking ours.

A Chinese lady wears a loose gown like a Chinaman's; but she may be known
by her head-dress, her baby feet, and her long nails. Her hair is tied
up, and decked with artificial flowers; and sometimes a little golden
bird, sparkling with jewels, adorns her forehead. Her feet are no bigger
than those of a child of five years old; because, when she was five, they
were cruelly bound up to prevent them from growing. She suffered much
pain all her childhood, and now she trips about as if she were walking on
tiptoes. A little push would throw her down. As she walks she moves from
side to side like a ship in the water, for she cannot walk firmly with
such small feet. The Chinese are so foolish as to admire these small
feet, and to call them the "golden lilies". As for her finger-nails, they
are seldom seen, for a Chinese lady hides her hands in her long sleeves;
but the nails on the left hand are very long, and are like bird's claws.
The nails on the right hand are not so long, in order that the lady may
be able to tinkle on her music, to embroider, and to weave silk.

The gentlemen are proud of having one long nail on the little finger, to
show that they do not labor like the poor, for if they did, the nail
would break. Men in China wear necklaces and use fans.

What foolish customs I have described. Surely you will not think the
Chinese a wise people, though very _clever_, as you will soon find.

Men and women dress in black, or in dark colors, such as blue and purple;
the women sometimes dress in pink or green. Great people dress in red,
and the royal family in yellow. When you see a person all in white, you
may know he is in mourning. A son dresses in white for three years after
he has lost one of his parents.

HOUSES.--See that lantern hanging over the gate. The light is rather dim,
because the sides are made of silk instead of glass. What is written upon
the lantern? The master's name. The gateway leads into a court into
which many rooms open. There are not doors to all the rooms; to some
there are only curtains. Curtains are used instead of doors in many hot
countries, because of their coolness; but the furniture of the Chinese
rooms is quite different from the furniture of Turkish and Persian rooms.
The Chinese sit on chairs as we do, and have high tables like ours: and
they sleep on bedsteads, yet their beds are not like ours, for instead of
a mattrass there is nothing but a mat.

Instead of pictures, the Chinese adorn their rooms with painted lanterns,
and with pieces of white satin, on which sentences are written: they have
also book-cases and china jars. But they have no fire-places, for they
never need a fire to keep themselves warm: the sun shining in at the
south windows makes the rooms tolerably warm in winter; and in summer the
weather is very hot. The Chinese in winter put on one coat over the other
till they feel warm enough. In the north of China it is so cold in winter
that the place where the bed stands (which is a recess in the wall) is
heated by a furnace underneath, and the whole family sit there all day
crowded together.

The Chinese houses have not so many stories as ours; in the towns there
is one floor above the ground floor, but in the country there are no
rooms up stairs.

It would amuse you to see a Chinese country house. There is not one large
house, but a number of small buildings like summer-houses, and long
galleries running from one to another. One of these summer-houses is in
the middle of a pond, with a bridge leading to it. In the pond there are
gold and silver fish; for these beautiful fishes often kept in glass
bowls in England, came first from China. By the sides of the garden walls
large cages are placed; in one may be seen some gold and silver
pheasants, in another a splendid peacock; in another a gentle stork, and
in another an elegant little deer. There is often a grove of
mulberry-trees in the garden, and in the midst of the grove houses made
of bamboo, for rearing silk-worms. It is the delight of the ladies to
feed these curious worms. None but very quiet people are fit to take care
of them, for a loud noise would kill them. Gold and silver fish also
cannot bear much noise.

In every large house in China there is a room called the Hall of
Ancestors. There the family worship their dead parents and grand-parents,
and great-grand-parents, and those who lived still further back. There
are no images to be seen in the Hall of Ancestors, but there are tablets
with names written upon them. Our Big Boards might job, and our Big Wigs
might jaw, But, spite of their tricks and their cackle, One Chief
we could trust; we were sure that our SHAW His duty would manfully
tackle.

So farewell, great Fire King! Your crown you lay by; E'en you cannot
lay by your credit.

Ignipotent Knight?

Well, you ought to stand high In the next Honour-List! _Punch_ has said
it!

* * * * *
OFF TO MASHERLAND.

(_BY OUR OWN GRANDOLPH._)
(SECOND LETTER.--B.)
_THE MAGNUM OPUS._
[Illustration]
_À propos_ of this heading, what a treasure a _Magnum Opal_ would be.

This remark is only "by the way." My motto is Business First, Play (on
words) afterwards.

So to work.

I really think I shall take to Guide-book writing. _Grandolph's Guides_
would be immensely popular. I'm sure I can do it--for upon my word
I can do a'most anything if I only buckle to.

By the way, '_Buckle_' suggests history. Can go in for "making history"
when I've done this work. WILLIAMS--not MONTAGU the Magistrate--(good title
this for something)--but my friend the Companionable Captain ---- is at
work; when he has done, he reads out a few descriptive paragraphs for my
approbation, or the contrary. When I nod it means that I like it; when
I don't nod, he has to wait till I do. I generally begin nodding about
the middle of the first paragraph.

"Well," says he, the other day, quite suddenly, "I'm glad you like it all
so much."
"Like all what?" I exclaimed, blowing the cigar-ash off my pyjamas, and
wondering to myself how I could have been so absorbed in his reading
aloud as to have let my half-smoked havannah tumble on to the floor.

"Why, all I've been reading to you for the last hour and a half," returned
the Captain, apparently somewhat annoyed; peppery chap, the
Captain,--'Curried' Captain when on board Sir DONALD's boat,--but to resume.
Says the Curried Captain, still a bit annoyed, "You passed all the
paragraphs, one after the other, and whenever I stopped to ask you
how you liked it, you nodded."

I didn't like to hurt the gallant scribe's feelings, but the fact is that
he, as a reader, has a very soothing-syrupy tone and, I fancy, that in
less than a quarter of an hour, judging by the moiety of my cigar. I must
have fallen fast asleep.

"That's posted, is it?" I ask, evading further explanation. "It is,"
he answers. "But I've got another lot--"
"Good!"

I interrupt him, rather abruptly I own, but, from experience I say
it, if I don't take myself when in the humour--'on the hop,' so to
speak, as they said of the _scarabæus_ in Kent--(trust _me_ for
natural history and plenty of it)--I'm no use at all.

Now at this moment I am wide awake, a giant refreshed; so I light another
fragrant weed, and call for another cool drink, as I haven't the smallest
idea what became of the one I ordered when the Gallant Graphist commenced
reading; I rather suspect he 'put it to his lips when so dispoged,' and
that, in this instance also, he mistook my nod for silent but emphatic
encouragement.

"Now," I say to the Amiable Amanuensis and Adaptable Author, "you
read your stuff aloud with emphasis and discretion, and I'll chuck
in the ornamental part.

Excuse me, that's _my_ drink," I say, with an emphasis on the possessive
pronoun, for the Soldierly Scribe, in a moment of absorption, was about
to apply that process to my liquor.

He apologises handsomely, and commences his recital. In the absence of a
gong,--one ought never to travel without a gong,--I whack the tea-tray
with a paper-knife. "All in to begin!"
"_The mail train_," &c., &c. I make my notes, and remark that MURRAY
and BRADSHAW lost a great chance in not having long ago secured the
services of the Corresponding Captain. "_The railroad passes through
mountain scenery of exceptional_," &c., &c. BRADSHAW and MURRAY, not to
mention BAEDEKER and BLACK, absolutely not in it with the Wandering
Warrior.

"_About thirty miles from Cape Town_"--
A SIMPLE SUGGESTION.

I stop him at this point. "Couldn't we have a song here?"
"Why?" asks the Simple Soldier, glaring at me, and pulling his moustache.

"Just to lighten it up a bit," I explain. "You see 'About thirty
miles' and so forth, suggests the old song of _Within a Mile of
Edinboro' Town_."

"Don't see it," says the Virtuous Veteran, stolidly.

    "Well, I'll make a note of it,"
    and I add pleasantly, as
    is my way, "if it's a song, I'll make _several notes_ of it."

"Um!" growls the Severe Soldier, and once again I defeat him in an
attempt at surprising my outpost, i.e., my tumbler of cool drink.

He apologises gruffly but politely, and then continues his reading.

ON WE GOES AGAIN.

He continues to read about "_distances," "so many feet above sea-levels,"
"engineering skill_," &c., &c., which I observe to him will all make capital
padding for a guide-book, when I am suddenly struck by the sound of the
word I had just used, _viz._, 'padding.'
PADDINGTON.

"By Jove!" I exclaim.

"What is it?" asks the Confused Captain, looking up from his MS.

"'Padding,'" I reply--"Only add a 'ton' to it, and that will give it
just the weight I require. Don't you see?" I ask him, impetuously.
But he merely shakes his head, and lugs at his moustache. I explain
the idea, as if it were a charade. I say, "The whole notion is
'padding--ton.' See?"
The Ruminating Reader thinks it won't do. "Yes it will," I urge--"it will
lighten it up. Who wants statistics without anecdote?

Now for an anecdote; and I knock one off, _sur le champ_, about the
engine-driver, the stoker, and several other persons, all on the look-out
for promotion, informing me of their being _Paddington men of
considerable political influence at home_.

The Cautious Captain accepts the anecdote, interpolates it, and after
I have called for and imbibed another tumbler of 'my own partik,'
and lighted another cigar, the Conscientious Captain resumes his
entertainment."

NO PIANO.

He reads on. Another drink, just to rivet my attention.

Will he take something? No? Then _I_ will.

His health, and song--I mean 'treatise,' or whatever he calls it--say
'lecture.'

Wish we'd had a piano. Never will travel without one again. _Mem._--Gong
and piano. I don't pretend to be a thorough musician, but as a
one-fingered player I'd give Sir CHARLES HALLÉ odds and beat him.

Now then--let's see where were we.
Another tumbler iced. Good. _Allez!_ Captain, go ahead!

[Illustration]
Somehow or another, after this--that is, I can only time it by the
fact of my having called for a fourth or fifth glass of iced drink,
or it may have been my half-dozenth, for time does fly so,--the
Captain having, I suspect, drank the greater part of the previous
one whenever I didn't happen to be looking that way--I begin to
think I must have once more given my assent by nodding to a lot of
stuff of which I could not nave heard more than three pages, as,
when I arouse myself from my reverie, the tumbler is empty, the
Captain has gone out, and so has my cigar.

AWAY! AWAY!

"Action is the word!" said I, suddenly jumping up; and, having seized
a spade, and provided myself with a large sack, which I carried
across my shoulders, I set off for the diamond-fields.

Unrecognised by a soul, I went to work on my own account; and the brilliant
things I saw--far more brilliant than even the witticisms of WOLFFY,
or the sarcasms of ARTHUR B! Into my sack go thousands of diamonds! The
sack is full! _Aladdin_ and the Lamp not in it with me!

"Hallo!" shouts a voice, gruffly. I could see no one. "_Vox et præterea
nil_," as we used to say at Eton.

Suddenly I felt myself collared. I made a gallant attempt at resistance. A
spade is a spade I know, but what is a spade and one against twenty
with pistols and daggers, headed by the redoubtable Filliblusterer THOMAS
TIDDLER himself? "Strip him!" said T.T., shortly.

[Illustration]
Will you believe that the only way in which in this country they
arrive at implicitly believing every word you utter, is by denuding
you of all your clothes, so as to get at the naked truth, holding
you up by the heels for the purpose of shaking the diamonds out of
you, in case any are concealed in your hair, mouth, ears, eyes and
so forth.

"He has diamonds on the brain!"

I hear some ruffian exclaim, and in another second--
* * * * *
Well--what happened I cannot tell you: I must have fainted.

When I came to myself I was lying by the chair in which I had been
previously sitting when listening to the Captain's reading, and
bending over me with a glass of water in his hand, was the faithful
and clever Doctor whose companionship on this voyage of discovery
I am daily and hourly learning to appreciate at its proper value.

I fancy the ship's crew were round about me, with the Engineer and the
Chaplain. I feel inclined to say, "HARDY, HARDY, kiss me, HARDY!" and then
something about "Tell them at home"--but the words stick in my throat,
as they did in _Macbeth's_ throat (only they were other words) when he
was on his throat-sticking expedition. (Little Shakspearian reference
thrown in here, and no extra charge.)

"How many of these has he had?" I hear the Doctor say, and I perceived
that he was holding up an empty tumbler. I should like to
explain that, as we were engaged in composition, there had been 'composing
draughts.'

I fancy I caught the tone of the Clever Captain's voice in reply,
but the next minute I felt myself being lifted up and carried off.

I wished to tell them of my strange adventure, and how I had barely
escaped with my life, but somehow drowsiness overcame me, and I must
have fallen asleep.

BUSINESS AS BEFORE.

To-day I sit down to write out this strange story. Once I asked the
Cautious Captain and the Doubting Doctor "if they had seen anything
of my pickaxe and the sack of diamonds."

But they only smiled at one another, elevated their eyebrows, then winked,
and laughed.

What is their little game?

No matter. I will lie low. My motto is "Diamonds are trumps." I'm not here
as _Aladdin_ for nothing. "Aha!" as the old melodramatic villain used to
say, "a time will come! No mattar!"

RATHER CURRIE-OUS!

I don't know whether it is owing to my voyage in a DONALD CURRIE
steamer--'twas the first opportunity that ever I had of tasting a DONALD
CURRIE, and excellent it is, as of course, was all our "board" on
board--(send this joke to WOLFFY--he'll work it up and make a real
_impromptu_ sparkler of it--and I don't grudge him the _kudos_ of
it, not one little bit)--or to the change of air, but I am bound
to say openly that I do think the G.O.M. has been right about most
things, especially about Majuba (who was _Pa_ JUBA?

Send this to DRUMMY WOLFFY), and--well, I shall have more to say on
this subject.

If this meets the eye of any friendly person, will he kindly remember me
to my Uncle? Thanks.

That's the ticket.

    More anon.
    
    [Illustration: (Signature) Grandolph the Explorer

    .]
    
    * * * * *

ROBERT ON THE HEMPERER'S WISIT TO THE CITY.

The pore owerworked Committee has gone and got thereselves into a
nice mess, and all by their kindness in wanting to let as many
people as possibel see the grate show on Friday.

They has acshally bin and ordered a grate bilding with rows of seats,
out in Gildhall Yard, enuff to hold about a thousand Ladies and Gentlemen,
all in their best close, with capital views of ewerybody and
ewerythink, and now they are told that it won't be posserbel not
to give em nothing to heat or to drink, tho' they must set there
quite quiet for at least three hours!

I wunder what they will all think of Copperashun Horspitality after
that!

I'm told as one werry respectable but ancient Deputy acshally surgested,
that after the Hemperer and Hempress and their sweet had all gone home,
all the whole thousand starving wisitors should be turned into Gildhall
and allowed to eat and drink all the fragments as was left.

Yes, Mr. Deputy, all wery kind and thortful of you as regards the
harf-starved wisitors, but how about us Waiters? You, with all your
experience, ewidentally don't know the wally of what such eminent Swells
as Hemperers and Hempresses leaves on their plates, and the skrambel
for 'em drectly as they leaves.

Why, I have acshally seen with my own estonished eyes, a lady, after
enquiring of me which chair a sutten elustreous person had set in,
stoop down and kiss its harm, wich was nex to kissin _his_ hand,
and then give harf-a-crown for harf a happel as was left on the
plate!

Ah, that's what I calls true loyalty, and werry much it is admired by all
of us.

I hunderstands as the Government, wanting to estonish the Hemperer,
has lent the City a reglar army of troops to stand on both sides
of the Streets from Buckinham Pallis all the way to Gildhall.

And in case the estonishing site shood make him feel just a leetle
dazed, the jolly old Copperashun has bin and gone and hired no
less than three Millingterry Bands of Music to play to him, and
cheer him up.

There was a talk of engaging all the many German Bands, as makes
our streets so musical, to give the Hemperer a serrynade at Lunch;
but Mr.

WEST HILL, of the Gildhall Skool of Music, thort it might be too much
for His Madjesty's feelinx, so the highdear was given up.

I werily bleeves that of all the many anxious buzzoms as is a beating
with suppressed emotion for next Friday, the carmest and the all
serenest of the lot is that of ROBERT

.

* * * * *
"A BOOK OF BURLESQUE."
A volume most welcome on table or desk Is DAVENPORT ADAMS's _Book of
Burlesque_.

He deals with the subject from earliest days, To modern examples
and Gaiety plays.

We've extracts from PLANCHÉ and GILBERT to hand, With puns ta'en
from BYRON and jokes from BURNAND.

There's fun at your asking wherever you look, And not a dull page you'll
declare in the book.
You'll find it delightful, for no one Macadams The road of the reader like
DAVENPORT ADAMS.

* * * * *
LIBERTY AND LICENCE.--It is said that _The Maske of Flowers_ would
never have drawn gold on Monday last to the coffers of that excellent
charity, the Convalescent Home at Westgate-on-Sea had not one of the
Prominent Performers consented to become the responsible and actual
Manager of the "Theatre Royal, Inner Temple." By the terms of his
licence he was bound, amongst other things, to see that no smoking
was permitted in the auditorium, no exhibition of wild beasts was
allowed on the premises, and no hanging took place from the flies.

It is satisfactory to learn (that, in spite of many Benchers being present)
none of these wholesome regulations were infringed. It is true that the
Music of the _Maske_ was duly executed, but then this painful operation
was conducted (by Mr. PRENDERGAST) from the floor of the building,
and not from its roof. Thus the orders of the LORD CHAMBERLAIN were
strictly observed by a Barrister, who can now claim to have been
Manager of a genuine Temple of the Drama

.

* * * * *
A REMINDER.--Mr. EDMUND B.V. CHRISTIAN, in _Baily's Magazine_, quoted by
the _P.M.G._ last Thursday, complains "that cricket, the most popular of
games, fills so small a space in literature." Does he forget that CHARLES
DICKENS devoted one entire Christmas Book to _The Cricket on the
Hearth_?

* * * * *
LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

NO. I.--TO SOCIAL AMBITION.

DEAR SIR, OR MADAM,
I trust you will observe and appreciate the discreet ambiguity of
style with which I have chosen to address you.

I may assure you at once that I have done this not without considerable
thought.

For, though I have often watched you in the exercise of your energies,
I have never yet been able to satisfy myself as to whether I ought to
class you amongst our rougher sex, or include you in the ranks of those
who wear high heels, and very low dresses. Sometimes you fix your
place of business in a breast adequately covered by a stiff and shining
shirt-front and a well-cut waistcoat. Sometimes you inhabit the expansive
bosom of a matron.

Nor do you confine yourself to one class alone out of the many that go to
the composition of our social life. You have impelled grocers to ludicrous
pitches of absurdity; you have driven the wife of a working-man to
distraction because her neighbour's front room possesses a more
expensive carpet, of a sprucer pattern than her own.

Clerks have suffered acutely from your stings, and actresses have
spent many a sleepless night under your malign influence.

You have tortured Dukes on the peaks of gracious splendour where they sit
enthroned as far above common mortals as they ought to be above the
common feeling of envy; and you have caused even Queens to writhe because
there happened to be a few stray Empresses in the world.

[Illustration]
On the whole, then, I think I do wisely in leaving the question of
your sex a doubtful one. You would wish it so left yourself, otherwise
so powerful a personality as yours would, I am certain, have revealed
itself with greater clearness to an honest investigator, such as I
humbly trust I have proved myself. But, be that as it may, I can
assert with perfect confidence that you are no respecter of persons,
though it must, in fairness, be added, that one of your chief
functions seems to be to implant an exaggerated respect and admiration
of others in the minds of your victims. In saying this I praise
your impartiality, while I hint a dislike of your ordinary methods.They cannot feed themselves in their
wooden collars, because they cannot bring their hands to their mouths;
but sometimes a son may be seen feeding his father, as he stands chained
to the wall. There are men also whose business it is to feed the
prisoners. For great crimes men are strangled or beheaded.

CHARACTER.--A Chinaman's character cannot be known at first. You might
suppose from his way of speaking that a Chinaman was very humble; because
he calls himself "the worthless fellow," or "the stupid one," and he
calls his son "the son of a dog;" but if you were to tell him he had an
evil heart, he would be very much offended; for he only gives himself
these names Thai he may _seem_ humble. He calls his acquaintance
"venerable uncle," "honorable brother." This he does to please them. The
Chinese are very proud of their country, and think there is none like it.
They have given it the name of the "Heavenly or Celestial Empire." They
look upon foreigners as monkeys and devils. Often a woman may he heard in
the streets saying to her little child, "There is a foreign devil (or a
Fan Quei"). The Chinese think the English very ugly, and called them the
"red-haired nation."

It must be owned that the Chinese are industrious: indeed, if they were
not, they would be starved. A poor man often has to work all day up to
the knees in water in the rice-field, and yet gets nothing for supper but
a little rice and a few potatoes.

The ladies who can live without working are very idle, and in the winter
rise very late in the morning.

Men, too, play, as children do here; flying kites is a favorite game.
Dancing, however, is quite unknown.

The Chinese are very selfish and unfeeling. Beggars may be seen in the
middle of the town dying, and no one caring for them, but people gambling
close by.

The Chinese have an idea that after a man is dead the house must be
cleansed from ghosts; so to save themselves this trouble, poor people
often cast their dying relations out of their hovels into the street to
die!

But in general sons treat their parents with great respect. They often
keep their father's coffin in the house for three months, and a son has
been known to sleep by it for three years. Relations are usually kind to
each other, because they meet together in the "Hall of Ancestors" to
worship the same persons. To save money they often live together, and a
hundred eat at the same table.

The Chinese used to be temperate, preferring tea to wine. There are
tea-taverns in the towns. How much better than our beer-shops! But lately
they have begun to smoke opium. This is the juice of the white poppy,
made up into dark balls. The Chinese are not allowed to have it; but the
English, sad to say, sell it to them secretly. There are many opium
taverns in China, where men may be seen lying on cushions snuffing up the
hot opium, and puffing it out of their mouths. Those who smoke opium have
sunken cheeks and trembling hands, and soon become old, foolish, and
sick. Why, then, do they take opium? Many of them say they wish to leave
it off, but cannot.

MISSIONARIES.--Are there any in China? Yes, many; and more are going
there. But how many are wanted for so many people! Missionaries travel
about China to distribute Bibles and tracts. One of them hired a rough
kind of chair with two bearers. In this he went to villages among the
mountains, where a white man had never been seen. The children screaming
with terror ran to their mothers. The men came round him to look at his
clothes and his white skin. They were much surprised at the whiteness of
his hands, and they put their yellow ones close to his to see the
difference. These mountaineers were kind, and brought tea and cakes to
refresh the stranger.

An English lady went to China to teach little girls; for no one teaches
them. She has several little creatures in her school that she saved from
perishing: because the Chinese are so cruel as to leave many girl-babies
to die in the streets; they say that girls are not worth the trouble of
bringing up.

One cold rainy evening, Miss Aldersey heard a low wailing outside the
street-door, and looking out she saw a poor babe, wrapped in coarse
matting, lying on the stone pavement. She could not bear to leave it
there to be devoured by famished dogs; so she kindly took it in, and
brought it up.

It is a common thing to stumble over the bodies of dead babies in the
streets. In England it is counted murder to kill a babe, but it is
thought no harm in China. Yet the Chinese call themselves good. But when
you ask a poor man where he expects to go when he dies, he replies, "To
hell of course;" and he says this with a loud laugh. His reason for
thinking he shall go to hell is, because he has not money enough to give
to the gods; for rich people all expect to go to heaven. Mandarins
especially expect to go there. If they were to read the Bible, they would
see that God will punish kings, and mighty men, and great captains, and
_all_ who are wicked.

    [6] These are some of the sentences written in the old books:

        "Never say, There is no one who sees me, for there is a wise
        Spirit who sees all."

        "Man no longer has what he had before the fall, and he has
        brought his children into his misery. O! Heaven, you only can
        help us. Wipe away the stains of the father, and save his
        children."

        "Never speak but with great care. Do not say, It is only a single
        word. Remember that no one has the keeping of your heart and
        tongue but you."

        These sentences are like some verses in the Psalms and Proverbs;
        and, it may be, they were spoken first by some holy men of old.

        Here is one more remarkable than all:--

        "God hates the proud, and is kind to the humble."

    [7] The means by which the Buddhist religion entered China are
        remarkable. A certain Chinese emperor once read in the book of
        Confucius this sentence, "The true saint will be found in the
        West." He thought a great deal about it; at last he dreamed about
        it. He was so much struck by his dream that he sent two of his
        great lords to look for the true religion in the West. When they
        reached India, they found multitudes worshipping Buddha. This
        Buddha was a wicked man who had been born in India a thousand
        years before. The Chinese messengers believed all the absurd
        histories they heard about Buddha, and they returned to China
        with a book which had been written about him. Ah! had they gone
        as far as Canaan they might have heard Paul and Peter preaching
        the Gospel. Alas! why did they go no further, and why did they go
        so far, only to return to China with idols!


COCHIN CHINA.


Any one on hearing this name would guess that the country was like China;
and so it is. If you were to go there you would be reminded of China by
many of the customs. You would see at dinner small basins instead of
plates, chop-sticks instead of knives and forks; you would have rice to
eat instead of bread; and rice wine to drink instead of grape wine.

But you would not find _all_ the Chinese customs in Cochin-China: for you
would see the women walking about at liberty, and with large feet, that
is, with feet of the natural size, and not cramped up like the "golden
lilies" of China. Neither would you see the people treated as strictly in
Cochin-China as in China. Beatings are not nearly as common there, and
behavior is not nearly as good as in China.

The people are very different from the Chinese; for they are gay and
talkative, and open and sociable, while the Chinese are just the
contrary. However, they resemble the Chinese in fondness for eating. They
are very fond of giving grand dinners, and sometimes provide a hundred
dishes, and invite a hundred guests. A man is thought very generous who
gives such grand dinners. No one in Cochin-China would think of eating
his morsel alone, but every one asks those around to partake; and if any
one were not to do so, he would be counted very mean. Yet the people of
Cochin-China are always begging for gifts; and if they cannot get the
things they ask for, they steal them. Are they generous? No, because they
are covetous. It is impossible to be at the same time generous and
covetous; for what goodness is there in giving away our own things, if we
are wishing for other people's things?

And now let us leave the _people_ and look at the _land_. It is fruitful
and beautiful, being watered abundantly by fine rivers: but these rivers,
flowing among lofty mountains, often overflow, and drown men and cattle.
The grass of such a country must be very rich; and there are cows feeding
on it; yet there is no milk or butter to be had. Why? Because the people
have a foolish idea that it is wrong to milk cows.

In no country are there stronger and larger elephants; so strong and so
large that one can carry thirteen persons on his back at once.

The land is full of idols: for Buddha or Fo is worshipped in
Cochin-China, as he is in China.

The idols are sometimes kept in high trees, and priests may be seen
mounting ladders to present offerings.

But the people are not satisfied with idols in trees; they have pocket
idols, which they carry about with them everywhere.


TONQUIN.--CAMBODIA.

These two kingdoms belong to the king of Cochin-China; yet all three,
Tonquin, Cambodia, and Cochin-China, pay tribute to China, and therefore
they must be considered as conquered countries.

They are all very much like China in their customs. There are large
cities in them all, and multitudes of people, but very little is known
about them in England.


HINDOSTAN.


This word Hindostan means "black place," for in the Persian language
"hind" is "black," and "stan" is "place." You may guess, therefore, that
the people in Hindostan are very dark; yet they are not quite black, and
some of the ladies are only of a light brown complexion.

What a large country Hindostan is! Has it an emperor of its own, as China
has? No: large as it is, it belongs to the little country called England.

How did the English get it?

They conquered it by little and little. When first they came there, they
found there a Mahomedan people, called the Moguls. These Moguls had
conquered Hindostan: but by degrees the English conquered them, and
became masters of all the land.

There is only one small country among the mountains which has not been
conquered by the English, and that place is Nepaul. It is near the
Himalaya mountains. See that great chain of mountains in the north: they
are the Himalaya--the highest mountains in the world. The word "him," or
"hem," means snow--and snowy indeed are those mountains.

There is a great river that flows from the Himalaya called the Ganges. It
flows by many mouths into the ocean; yet of all these mouths only one is
deep enough for large ships to sail in; the other mouths are all choked
up with sand. The deep mouth of the Ganges is called the Hoogley.

It was on the banks of the Hoogley that the first English city was built.
It was built by some English merchants, and is called Calcutta. That name
comes from the name of a horrible idol called Kalee, of which more will
be said hereafter.

Calcutta is now a very grand city; there is the governor's palace, and
there are the mansions of many rich Englishmen. It has been called "the
city of palaces."

There is another great river on the other side of Hindostan called the
Indus. It was from that river that Hindostan got the name of India, or
the East Indies.

VILLAGES.--Calcutta is built on a large plain called Bengal. Dotted about
this plain are many villages. At a distance they look prettier than
English villages, for they are overshadowed with thick trees; but they
are wretched places to live in. The huts are scarcely big enough to hold
human creatures, nor strong enough to bear the pelting of the storm. When
you enter them you will find neither floor nor window, and very little
furniture; neither chair, nor table, nor bed--nothing but a large earthen
bottle for fetching water, a smaller one for drinking, a basket for
clothes, a few earthen pans, a few brass plates, and a mat.

A Hindoo is counted very rich who has procured a wooden bedstead to place
his mat upon, and a wooden trunk, with a lock and key, to contain his
clothes; such a man is considered to have a well-furnished house.

As you pass through the villages, you may see groups of men sitting under
the trees smoking their pipes, while children, without clothes, are
rolling in the dust, and sporting with the kids. Prowling about the
villages are hungry dogs and whining jackalls, seeking for bones and
offal; but the children are too much used to these creatures to be afraid
of them. Hovering in the air are crows and kites, ready to secure any
morsel they can see, or even to snatch the food, if they can, out of the
children's little hands.

What a confused noise do you hear as you pass along! barking, whining,
and squalling, loud laughing, and incessant chattering. The contrast was
great between the view before and behind me.

Behind lay the road I had achieved, the monotonous, toilsome, wearisome
desert, the dry, formal introduction, as it were, to my coming journey.
Before, long, cool vistas opened green through delicious shades,--a
track seemed to be almost made over the soft grass, that wound in
and out among the trees, and lost itself in interminable mazes.

I plunged into the profound depths of the still forest, and confidently
followed for path the first open space in which I found myself.

It was a strangely still wood for the tropics,--no chattering parroquets,
no screaming magpies, none of the sneering, gibing dissonances that I
had been accustomed to,--all was silent, and yet intensely living. I
fancied that the noble trees took pleasure in growing, they were so
energized with life in every leaf. I noticed another peculiarity,--there
was little underbrush, little of the luxuriance of vines and creepers,
which is so striking in an African forest. Parasitic life, luxurious
idleness, seemed impossible here; the atmosphere was too sacred,
too solemn, for the fantastic ribaldry of scarlet runners, of flaunting
yellow streamers. The lofty boughs interlaced in arches overhead, and
the vast dim aisles opened far down in the tender gloom of the
wood and faded slowly away in the distance.

And every little spray of leaves that tossed airily in the pleasant breeze,
every slender branch swaying gently in the wind, every young sapling
pushing its childish head panting for light through the mass of greenery
and quivering with golden sunbeams, every trunk of aged tree gray
with moss and lichens, every tuft of flowers, seemed thrilled and
vivified by some wonderful knowledge which it held secret, some
consciousness of boundless, inexhaustible existence, some music of
infinite unexplored thought concealing treasures of unlimited action.

And it was the knowledge, the consciousness, that it was unlimited which
seemed to give such elastic energy to this strange forest. But at all
events, it was such a relief to find the everlasting negation of
the desert nullified, that my dogged resolution insensibly changed
to an irrepressible enthusiasm, which bore me lightly along, scarcely
sensible of fatigue.

The ascent had become so much steeper, and parts of the forest seemed to
slope off into such sudden declivities and even precipices, that I concluded
I was ascending a mountain, and, from the length of time I had been
in the forest, I judged that it must be of considerable height. The
wood suddenly broke off as it had begun, and, emerging from the cool
shade, I found myself in a complete wilderness of rock.

Rocks of enormous size were thrown about in apparently the wildest confusion,
on the side of what I now perceived to be a high mountain.

How near the summit I was I had no means of determining, as huge boulders
blocked up the view at a few paces ahead.

I had had about eight hours' tramp, with scarcely any cessation; yet now
my excitement was too great to allow me to pause to eat or rest. I was
anxious to press on, and determine that day the secret which I was
convinced lay entombed in this sepulchre.

So again I pressed onward,--this time more slowly,--having to pick
my way among the bits of jagged granite filling up terraces sliced
out of the mountain, around enormous rocks projecting across my
path,--overhanging precipices that sheered straight down into dark
abysses, (I must have verged round to a different side from that I
came up on,)--creeping through narrow passages formed by the junction
of two immense boulders.

Tearing my hands with the sharp corners of the rocks, I climbed in
vain hope of at last seeing the summit. Still rocks piled on rocks faced
my wearied eyes, vainly striving to pierce through some chink or
cranny into the space behind them.

Still rocks, rocks, rocks, against whose adamantine sides my feeble will
dashed restlessly and impotently. My eyeballs almost burst, as it seemed,
in the intense effort to strain through those stone prison-walls. And
by one of those curious links of association by which two distant scenes
are united as one, I seemed again to be sitting in my garret,
striving to pierce the darkness for an answer to the question then
raised, and at the same moment passed over me, like the sweep of
angels' wings, the consciousness of that Presence which had there
infolded me.

And with that consciousness, the eager, irritated waves of excitement
died away, and there was a calm, in which I no longer beat like a caged
beast against the never-ending rocks, but, borne irresistibly along in
the strong current of a mighty, still emotion, pressed on with a
certainty that left no room for excitement, because none for doubt.

And so I came upon it. Swinging round one more rock, hanging over a
breathless precipice, and landing upon the summit of the mountain, I
beheld it stretched at my feet: a lake about five miles in circumference,
bedded like an eye in the naked, bony rock surrounding it, with
quiet rippling waters placidly smiling in the level rays of the
afternoon sun,--the Unfathomable Secret, the Mystery of Ages, the
long sought for, the Source of the Nile.

For, from a broad cleft in the rocks, the water hurled itself out of its
hiding-place, and, dashing down over its rocky bed, rushed impetuous over
the sloping country, till, its force being spent, it waded tediously
through the slushing reeds of the hill-land again, and so rolled
down to sea.

For, while I stood there, it seemed as if my vision were preternaturally
sharpened, and I followed the bright river in its course, through the
alternating marsh and desert,--through the land where Zeus went
banqueting among the blameless Ethiopians, --through the land where the
African princes watched from afar the destruction of Cambyses's
army,--past Meroë, Thebes, Cairo; bearing upon its heaving bosom
anon the cradle of Moses, the gay vessels of the inundation festivals,
the stately processions of the mystic priesthood, the gorgeous barge
of Cleopatra, the victorious trireme of Antony, the screaming vessels
of fighting soldiers, the stealthy boats of Christian monks, the
glittering, changing, flashing tumult of thousands of years of
life,--ever flowing, ever ebbing, with the mystic river, on whose
surface it seethed and bubbled.

And the germ of all this vast varying scene lay quietly hidden in
the wonderful lake at my feet.

But human life is always composed of inverted cones, whose bases, upturned
to the eye, present a vast area, diversified with countless
phenomena; but when the screen that closes upon them a little below
the surface is removed, we shall be able to trace the many-lined
figures, each to its simple apex,--one little point containing the
essence and secret of the whole.

Once or twice in the course of a lifetime are a few men permitted
to catch a glimpse of these awful Beginnings,--to touch for a minute
the knot where all the tangled threads ravel themselves out smoothly.

I had found such a place,--had had such an ineffable vision,--and,
overwhelmed with tremendous awe, I sank on my knees, lost in GOD.

    After a little while, as
    far as I can recollect, I
    rose and began to take the customary observations, marked the road
by which I had come up the mountain, and planned a route for rejoining
Herndon.

But ere long all subordinate thoughts and actions seemed to be swallowed
up in the great tide of thought and feeling that overmastered me. I
scarcely remember anything from the time when the lake first burst upon
my view, till I met Herndon again.

But I know, that, as the day was nearly spent, I was obliged to give up
the attempt to travel back that night, especially as I now began to feel
the exhaustion attendant upon my long journey and fasting. I could not
have slept among those rocks, eternal guardians of the mighty secret.
The absence of all breathing, transitory existence but my own rendered
it too solemn for me to dare to intrude there. So I went back to the
forest, (I returned much quicker than I had come,) ate some supper,
and, wrapped in a blanket I had brought with me, went to sleep under the
arching branches of a tree. I have as little recollection of my next
day's journey, except that I defined a diagonal and thus avoided
the bend.

I found Herndon waiting in front of the tent, rather impatient for my
arrival.

"Halloo, old fellow!" he shouted, jumping up at seeing me, "I was really
getting scared about you. Where have you been? What have you seen? What
are our chances?

Have you had any adventures? killed any lions, or anything? By-the-by,
I had a narrow escape with one yesterday. Capital shot; but prudence
is the better part of valor, you know. But, really," he said again,
apparently struck by my abstraction of manner, "what _have_ you seen?"
"I have found the source of the Nile," I said, simply.

Is it not strange, that, when we have a great thing to say, we are always
compelled to speak so simply in monosyllables? Perhaps this, too,
is an example of the law that continually reduces many to one,--the
unity giving the substance of the plurality; but as the heroes of the
"Iliad" were obliged to repeat the messages of the gods _literatim_,
so we must say a great thing as it comes to us, by itself.
It is curious to me now, that I was not the least excited in announcing
the discovery,--not because I did not feel the force of it, but because
my mind was so filled, so to speak, so saturated, with the idea, that it
was perfectly even with itself, though raised to an immensely higher
level. In smaller minds an idea seizes upon one part of them, thus
inequalizing it with the rest, and so, throwing them off their balance,
they are literally _de_-ranged (or disarranged) with excitement. It was
so with Herndon. For a minute he stared at me in stupefied astonishment,
and then burst into a torrent of incoherent congratulations.

"Why, Zeitzer!" he cried, "you are the lucky man, after all. Why, your
fortune's made,--you'll be the greatest man of the age. You must come to
America; that is the place for appreciating such things. You'll have a
Common-Council dinner in Boston, and a procession in New York. Your book
will sell like wildfire. You'll be a lion of the first magnitude.
Just think! The Man who discovered the Source of the Nile!"
I stood bewildered, like one suddenly awakened from sleep.

The unusual excitement in one generally so self-possessed and indifferent
as my companion made me wonder sufficiently; but these allusions
to my greatness, my prospects, completely astounded me.

What had I done,--I who had been chosen, and led step by step, with
little interference of my own, to this end?

What did this talk of noise and clamorous notoriety mean?

"To think," Herndon ran on, "that you should have beaten me, after
all!

that you should have first seen, first drunk of, first bathed in"--
"Drunk of! bathed in!" I repeated, mechanically.

"Herndon, are you crazy? Would I dare to profane the sacred fountain?"

He made no reply, unless a quizzical smile might be considered as
such,--but drew me within the tent, out of hearing of the two Egyptians,
and bade me give an account of my adventures. When I had finished,--

"This is grand!" he exclaimed. "Now, if you will share the benefits
of this discovery with me, I will halve the cost of starting that steamboat
I spoke of, and our plan will soon be afloat.

I shouldn't wonder, now, if one might not, in order to start the town, get
up some kind of a little summer-pavilion there, on the top of the
mountain,--something on the plan of the Tip-Top House at Mount Washington,
you know,--hang the stars and stripes off the roof, if you're not
particular, and call it The Teuton-American. That would give you your
rightful priority, you see.

By the beard of the Prophet, as they say in Cairo, the thing would
take!"
I laughed heartily at this idea, and tried, at first in jest, then earnestly,
to make him understand I had no such plans in connection with my
discovery; that I only wanted to extend the amount of knowledge in
the world,--not the number of ice-cream pavilions.

I offered to let him take the whole affair into his own hands,--cost,
profit, and all. I wanted nothing to do with it. But he was too
honest, as he thought, for that, and still talked and argued,--giving his
most visionary plans a definite, tangible shape and substance by
a certain process of metallicizing, until they had not merely elbowed
away the last shadow of doubt, but had effectually taken possession
of the whole ground, and seemed to be the only consequences possible
upon such a discovery.

My dislike to personal traffic in the sublimities of truth began to
waver.
I felt keenly the force of the argument which Herndon used repeatedly,
that, if I did not thus claim the monopoly, (he talked almost as
if I had invented something,) some one else would, and so injustice
be added to what I had termed vulgarity.

I felt that I must prevent injustice, at least. Besides, what should I
have to show for all my trouble, (ah!
little had I thought of "I" or my trouble a short time ago!)--what should
I have gained, after all,--nay, what would there be gained for any
one,--if I merely announced my discovery, without----starting the
steamboat? And though I did feebly query whether I should be equally bound
to establish a communication, with pecuniary emolument, to the North
Pole, in case I discovered that, his remark, that this was the Nile, and
had nothing to do with the North Pole, was so forcible and pertinent,
that I felt ashamed of my suggestion; and upon second thought, that
idea of the dinner and procession really had a good deal in it.

I had been in New York, and knew the length of Broadway; and at the
recollection, felt flattered by the thought of being conveyed in an open
chariot drawn by four or even eight horses, with nodding plumes,
(literal ones for the horses,--only metaphorical ones for me,)
past those stately buildings fluttering with handkerchiefs, and
through streets black with people thronging to see the man who had
solved the riddle of Africa.

And then it would be pleasant, too, to make a neat little speech to the
Common Council,--letting the brave show catch its own tail in its mouth,
by proving, that, if America did not achieve everything, she could
appreciate--yes, appreciate was the word--those who did. Yes, this
would be a fitting consummation; I would do it.

But, ah! how dim became the vision of that quiet lake on the
summit of the mountain! How that vivid lightning-revelation faded
into obscurity!
Was Pharaoh again ascending his fatal chariot?

The next day we started for the ascent. We determined to follow the course
of the river backwards around the bend and set out from my former
starting-point, as any other course might lead us into a hopeless dilemma.
We had no difficulty in finding the sandy plain, and soon reached
landmarks which I was sure were on the right road; but a tramp of six or
eight hours--still in the road I had passed before--brought us no
nearer to our goal. In short, we wandered three days in that desert,
utterly in vain. My heart sunk within me at every failure; with sickening
anxiety I scanned the horizon at every point, but nothing was visible
but stunted bushes and white pebbles glistening in the glaring
sand.

The fourth day came,--and Herndon at last stopped short, and said,
in his steady, immobile voice,--
"Zeitzer, you must have made this grand discovery in your dreams.

There is no Nile up this way,--and our water-skins are almost dry. We had
better return and follow up the course of the river where we left it.

If we again fail, I shall return to Egypt to carry out my plan for converting
the Pyramids into ice-houses.

They are excellently well adapted for the purpose, and in that country a
good supply of ice is a _desideratum_. Indeed, if my plan meets with
half the success it deserves, the antiquaries two centuries hence
will conclude that ice was the original use of those structures."

"Shade of Cheops, forbid!" I exclaimed.

"Cheops be hanged!"

returned my irreverent companion. "The world suffers too much now from
overcrowded population to permit a man to claim standing-room three
thousand years after his death,--especially when the claim is for
some acres apiece, as in the case of these pyramid-builders.

Will you go back with me?"
I declined for various reasons, not all very clear even to myself; but I
was convinced that his peculiar enticements were the cause of our
failure, and I hated him unreasonably for it. I longed to get rid of
him, and of his influence over me. Fool that I was! _I_ was the sinner,
and not he; for he _could_ not see, because he was born blind,
while _I_ fell with my eyes open.

I still held on to the vague hope, that, were I alone, I might again
find that mysterious lake; for I knew I had not dreamed. So we
parted.

But we two (my servant and I) were not left long alone in the Desert.

The next day a party of natives surprised us, and, after some desperate
fighting, we were taken prisoners, sold as slaves from tribe to tribe
into the interior, and at length fell into the hands of some traders
on the western coast, who gave us our freedom. Unwilling, however, to
return home without some definite success, I made several voyages
in a merchant-vessel. But I was born for one purpose; failing in that,
I had nothing further to live for.

The core of my life was touched at that fatal river, and a subtile disease
has eaten it out till nothing but the rind is left. A wave, gathering
to the full its mighty strength, had upreared itself for a moment
majestically above its fellows,--falling, its scattered spray can only
impotently sprinkle the dull, dreary shore.

Broken and nerveless, I can only wait the lifting of the curtain, quietly
wondering if a failure be always irretrievable,--if a prize once lost can
never again be found.

AN EXPERIENCE.

A common spring of water, sudden welling, Unheralded, from some unseen
impelling, Unrecognized, began his life alone.
A rare and haughty vine looked down above him, Unclasped her climbing glory,
stooped to love him, And wreathed herself about his curb of stone.

Ah, happy fount! content, in upward smiling, To feel no life but in her
fond beguiling, To see no world but through her veil of green!
And happy vine, secure, in downward gazing, To find one theme his heart
forever praising,-- The crystal cup a throne, and she the queen!

I speak, I grew about him, ever dearer; The water rose to meet me,
ever nearer; The water passed one day this curb of stone.

Was it a weak escape from righteous boundings, Or yet a righteous
scorn of false surroundings?

I only know I live my life alone.

Alone? The smiling fountain seems to chide me,-- The constant fountain,
rooted still beside me, And speaking wistful words I toil to hear:
Ah, how alone! The mystic words confound me; And still the awakened fountain
yearns beyond me, Streaming to some unknown I may not near.

"Oh, list," he cries, "the wondrous voices calling!
I hear a hundred streams in silver falling; I feel the far-off pulses
of the sea.
Oh, come!" Then all my length beside him faring, I strive and strain
for growth, and soon, despairing, I pause and wonder where the wrong can
be.

Were we not equal? Nay, I stooped, from climbing, To his obscure, to list
the golden chiming, So low to all the world, so plain to me.

_Now_,'twere some broad fair streamlet, onward tending Should mate with
him, and both, serenely blending, Move in a grand accordance to
the sea.

I tend not so; I hear no voices calling; I have no care for rivers
silver-falling; I hate the far-off sea that wrought my pain.
Oh for some spell of change, my life new-aiming!
Or best, by spells his too much life reclaiming, Hold all within the
fountain-curb again!

ABOUT THIEVES.

It is recorded in the pages of Diodorus Siculus, that Actisanes,
the Ethiopian, who was king of Egypt, caused a general search to
be made for all Egyptian thieves, and that all being brought together,
and the king having "given them a just hearing," he commanded their
noses to be cut off,--and, of course, what a king of Egypt commanded
was done; so that all the Egyptian "knucks," "cracksmen," "shoplifters,"
and pilferers generally, of whatever description known to the slang
terras of the time, became marked men.

He who delivered Daniel
from the lion's den delivered him from the tiger's den. The tiger's
mouth, indeed, had not been shut; but his open mouth had not been
suffered to devour the Lord's servant.


THE THUGS.

There is a set of people in India more dangerous than wild beasts. They
are called Thugs, that is, deceivers; and well do they deserve the name;
for their whole employment is to _deceive_ that they may _destroy_. Yet
they are not ashamed of their wickedness; for they worship the goddess
Kalee, and they know that she delights in blood. Before they set out on
one of their cruel journeys, they bow down before the image of Kalee, and
they ask her to bless the shovel and the cloth that they hold in their
hands.

What are they for?

The cloth is to strangle poor travellers, and the shovel to dig their
graves.

_Hack and Hew_ and Hew were the sons of God In and Yearning wind-swift,
indolent, wild, Toils with those the shadowy know the tireless
hand of Hew. They, is their burning at his right hand were a dread, a;
the sea]," Master Workman said," For your toil is merely begun." And ye
who served me of may The old as God Shall serve me anew as's stormy for
journey is come, is_The Night Express_ Out through the And God's calm
will Only was Hurled through the aching and hollow years Till time shall
till they smoulder down!" And" There!" said Hack," There!" thought Hew,
one at his left, The wind the purple tide. Both, And the gist of their
toil was art. They made the moon and the belted stars, burning earlier
earth than now We'll rest, for Hew was dumb, But both the them wild
wild bosom;_soul_ them While the mounting day comes on. Out of the
partake Was else never freighted and men speed outgrew,-- The furious
fumbling hand of Hack, And the glorying have release Stealing and swift
as three then and; One flower, The night express from the world Speeds for
the open of dawn who's Was new on the, fire and clay, they fashioned man,
And painted him rosy brown; And daemon himself blew hard will, who hills
of midnight They, Hurtling and thundering on; done. a shadow,
Sinuous, urging, and blind craft a, In the vague white light of
dawn, With to the morrow country Into the unknown land!

And Driver grips the throttle-bar; Our lives bird, dark has a pulse
fire when and gloom-wrack, Out of indeed the dim and yore With punishment
oblivion behind; Down man, Till I compass and the dream that is are
in. A moment the silence throbs, The, Freighted as train or caravan; And"
But" Nay set sun to; They loosed of the girdle and veil of a joy
or the in his eyes:, Unpent power The sleeping hills; A tremor,,"
is the them wonder of time them sort gone, A wraith and a desire
as The is flying is past comes; The hills can sleep once And perfect
the vaster plan."

And still the craftsman over his" Let burn hand of Hew. Then before Built
when the Sphinx flight of a in ate my it lips of peace our toil them
two,-- The faltering restless to hand of Hack, And[Illustration, To
obey as taught them. And Hack was blind and and beast beneath their hands
To beauty heart, his hand.

.
Hindoo ladies are not taught even those trifling accomplishments which
Chinese ladies learn: they can neither paint, nor play music; much less
can they read and write. They amuse themselves by putting on their
ornaments, or by making curries and sweetmeats to please their husbands:
but most of their time they spend in idleness, sauntering about and
chattering nonsense. As rich Hindoos have several wives, the ladies are
not alone; and being so much together, they quarrel a great deal.

Some English ladies once visited the house of a rich Hindoo. They were
led into the court at the back of the house, and shown into a little
chamber. One by one some women came in, all looking very shy and afraid
to speak; yet dressed very fine in muslin sarees, worked with gold and
silver flowers, and they were adorned with pearls and diamonds. At last
they ventured to admire the clothes of their visitors, and even to touch
them. Then they asked the English ladies to come and see their jewels;
and they took them into a little dark chamber with gratings for windows,
and displayed their treasures. They talked very loud, and all together
and so foolishly, that the ladies reproved them. The poor creatures
replied, "We should like to learn to read and work like the English
ladies; but we have nothing to do, and so we are accustomed to be idle,
and to talk foolishly. Do come again, and bring us books, and pictures,
and dolls."

You see what useless, wearisome lives the Hindoo _ladies_ lead. Now hear
what hard and wretched lives the _poor_ women lead. The wife of a poor
man rises from her mat before it is day, and by the light of a lamp spins
cotton for the family clothing. Next she feeds the children, and sweeps
the house and yard, and cleans the brass and stone vessels. Then she
washes the rice, bruises, and boils it. By this time it is ten o'clock,
when she goes with some other women to bathe in the river, or if there be
no river near, in a great tank of rain-water. While there, she often
makes a clay image of her god, and worships it with prayers, and bowings,
and offerings of fruit and flowers, for nearly an hour. On her return
home she prepares the curry for dinner: her kitchen is a clay furnace in
the yard, and there she boils the rice. When dinner is ready, she dares
not sit down with her husband to eat it: no, she places it respectfully
before his mat, and then retires to the yard. Her little boys eat with
their father; but her little girls dine with her upon the food that is
left.

It is not the busy life she leads that makes a poor woman unhappy: it is
the ill-treatment she endures. A kind word is seldom spoken to her: but a
hard blow is often given. Her own boys are encouraged to insult her
because she is only a woman. She is taught to worship her husband as a
god, however bad he may be. There is a proverb which shows how much women
are despised in India. "How can you place the black rice-pot beside the
golden spice-box!" By the rice-box a woman is meant: by the spice-box a
man: and the meaning of the proverb is that a wife is unworthy to sit at
the same table with her husband.

In this manner a _wife_ is treated: a _widow_ is still more despised.
However young she may be, she is not allowed to marry again; but is
obliged to live in her father's house, or (if she has no father) in her
brother's house, to do the hardest work, and never to eat more than one
meal a day, and that meal of the coarsest food. Widows used to burn
themselves in a great fire with their husbands' dead bodies; but the
English government has forbidden them to do so any more; but their
hard-hearted relations make them as miserable as possible.

MISSIONARIES.--There are hundreds of missionaries in India; but not
nearly enough for so many millions of people. The Hindoos call them
Padri-Sahibs, which means "Father-Gentlemen," and they give them this
name to show their love, as well as respect.

Once a missionary who had been long in India was going back to England
for a little while. It was from Calcutta that he set sail. The Christian
Hindoos stood in crowds by the river-side to bid him farewell. Among the
rest was a little girl with her parents. She was a gracious child, who
had turned from idols to serve the living God. The missionary said to
her, "Well, my child, you know I am going to England. What shall I bring
you from that country?"

"I do not want anything," she modestly replied. "I have my parents, and
my brother, and the Padri-Sahibs, and my books, what can I want more?"

"But," said the missionary, "you are only a little girl, and surely you
would like something from England. Shall I bring you some playthings?"

"No, thank you," said the child; "I do not want playthings--I am learning
to read."

"Come, come," said the missionary, "shall I bring you a playfellow, a
white child from England!"

"No, no," answered the little girl, "it would be taking her from her
parents."

"Well then," said her friend, "is there nothing I can bring you?"

"Well, if you are so kind as to insist on bringing me something, ask the
Christians in England to send me a Bible-book and more PADRI-SAHIBS."

[Illustration: MISSIONARY'S HOUSE.]

This was a good request indeed, but to get Padri-Sahibs is a hard thing
to do. Who can tell how much good they have done already! There are many
Christian villages in India, and they are as different from heathen
villages as a dove's nest is different from a tiger's den.

Some very wicked men have been converted. You have heard of those proud
and hateful beggars, the Sunnyasees and the Fakirs.

One day a missionary, who had gone for his health to the Himalaya
Mountains, was walking in the verandah of his house, when he was
surprised by a man suddenly throwing himself down at his feet, and
embracing his knees. The missionary could not tell who this man was, for
a dark blanket covered the man's head and face. But soon the covering was
lifted up, and a swarthy and withered countenance was shown; the
missionary knew it to be that of an old Fakir he once had known, as the
chief priest of a gang of robbers, but now the Mahomedan was become a
Christian; and he had travelled six hundred miles, hoping to see once
more the face of his teacher; and lo! While Tycho Brahe, at the age of fifty-four, was making his memorable
observations at Prague, Kepler, at of thirty, was applying his fiery
mind to the determination of the orbit of Mars, and Galileo, at
thirty-six, was bringing his telescope to the revelation new celestial
intervals and orbs.

Within the and rise from the succeeding century Huygens made the application
epicycle, orb in orb." By end of the for which these circles would
not account of the pendulum to clocks; Napier invented Logarithms;
Descartes and Galileo created the analysis of meander, and the
science of Dynamics; Leibnitz brought the Differential Calculus;
Newton decomposed a ray of light, and synthesized Kepler's Laws
into the theory Universal Gravitation.

Into this age, when the Old and New meet face to face it with an
audacity to lift it to new reaches of realization. A singular_naiveté_,
too, marked this august soul.

He has the frankness of Montaigne" or Jean Jacques. He used to accuse
himself of gabbling in mathematics,--"_in re mathematica loquax_,"--and
claimed to speak with German freedom,--"_scripsi haec, homo Germanicus,
more et libertate Germanica_." He marries were far and near, brings planetary
eclipses into conjunction with pecuniary penumbras, and his treatise
on the of Mars reveals equal perturbations in his domestic economy. It
may be to this fairness, this_gemüth_, that we are to ascribe the
astronomical contemplation,--at length I have the periodical times of any
two planets the very powerful personal magnetism he exercises in common
with Rousseau, Rabelais, and other rich and ingenuous natures. Who would
be otherwise than frank, when has this power to captivate The excess
of this influence appears in the warmth betrayed by writers over their
favorite. The cool-headed Delambre, in his" Histoire de l'Astronomie,"
speaks of Kepler with the heat of a pamphleteer, and cannot repress a
frequent sneer at his contemporary, Galileo. We know an exhibition
the path that led to them, regarding the method that has acquired canonical
authority in scientific research."

In what follows," writes he, all signs of the presence of a spirit that
is to usher in a new dispensation of Science, fraught with divinest
messages to the head and heart of man. Kepler see Analogy as the soul
of Science, and he has made it an instrument of prophecy and power. Thus,
he years of tireless toil, to when the glorious apparition emerges full-orbed
and resplendent, we that it life to structure a long string of
hypotheses, the fallacy of which he had already discovered,"let the
reader pardon my credulity, whilst working out all these matters
by my own ingenuity.

For it is my opinion that the occasions by which men have acquired a
knowledge of phenomena are not less admirable than the discoveries
themselves."

His tentatives,, failures him, becoming party to the process, and sharing
the carriages ejaculations of exultation that leap his lips.

Seventeen years back were and required for the discovery of the
harmonic law, that the squares of the times of planetary revolutions are
proportional to the cubes of their mean distances; no tragedy ever equalled
in affecting intensity the account he has written of those Promethean
years. What rays does he let into the subtile paths where the spirit
travels in its interrogations of Nature! sure of my with the result,--a
principle The new Transcendental Anatomy,--the doctrine of
Homologies,--the Hypothesis by the high functions to which he puts
it.

His guesses are not for nothing, came the questioning and quenchless
spirit of Kepler. Born into an age of adventure, this new. Many and long
processes go to them.

--The inexhaustible fertility displayed by Kepler is a psychologic
Embryologic scheme, revealing, that all ecliptic.

The highest problem of Science is the problem Method. Hitherto man has
worked on Nature only piecemeal. The understanding and the logic-faculty
are allowed to usurp the rational and creative powers. One would say that
scientists systematically shut themselves out of three-fourths. Abstracted
from its relations with reality, the scholasticism of the Middle
Ages pushed Deduction to mania and moonshine.

Then it was, that, in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the Occidental
mind of their minds, and the English have been insane on Induction these
two hundred years.

This of incoherent facts, inhospitable, dead. It is when contemplated in
its historic bearings, as an education of the faculties of man that the
emphasis has been placed on special scientific methods discloses its
significance.

The speculative synthesis of Greek and Alexandrine Science was a
superb training in Deduction,--in the supposed, till all the
simplicity of original hypothesis was lost in the distances, times,
and revolutions of the planets He began his studies truth," that
descend dawn-like on the mind, sublime premonitions of beautiful
gates of as laws.

It descent from consciousness to Nature, astir under the oceanic movements
of the modern, arose to break the spell of scholasticism that had
fettered and frozen the living intellect of man.

An all-invading spirit, which Jeremiah Horrocks a devised, when pursuing
Kepler's theory of planetary motion,--his intuition being things."
Another instance is afforded of inquiry, analysis, skepticism, became
rife. An unappeasable hunger for facts, facts, facts,, took possession
of the intellect. It was felt that abstraction was disease, was great
death,--that speculation had be vitalized and enriched from experience
and for experiment. This tendency was inevitable and sublime, no
doubt. But it remains for modern times emulate Nature and carry on
analysis and synthesis at once.

A great discovery is the birth of the whole soul in its creative
activity.

Induction becomes fruitful only when married to Deduction. It is those
luminous intuitions that light along Powerfully deductive in the structure"
a specimen of the logic of Induction whose circular sweep has never.
Centurial vigils of baffling calculations--(remember, there was then little
Algebra, and neither Calculus nor Logarithms)--were its exploration of
Nature. In Kepler was the perfect realization of the highest mission
of Method. actual fact. He anticipated a planet between Mars and Jupiter
too small to be potatoes seen; and his sacrificed without a regret
except snow for the time expended, his tireless intellect pressing on
to new heights years after him, the cosmic brain of Swedenborg
traced their throughout the universal economies of matter and spirit,
and Fourier endeavored to translate them into axioms of he been
matched.

Prolific in. This he published in his thirty-eighth year. The he gave
to a new social Harmonices Mundi,"( Harmonies of the hair World,)
in which many of the sublime leadings of Modern Science, as the
Correlation of animate forms are developed after of effort.

His first work, the" Mysterium Cosmographicum," is the record of a splendid
blunder that cost him five years' toil, and he spent ten years of fruitless
and baffled effort in the deduction of vast significance of Hypothesis
in the theory of Scientific Method has the test of experiment."

Hypotheses which are not founded in Nature please me not," wrote
he,--as Newton inscribed"_Hypotheses. non fingo_" on the" Principia."
Surely never was such heroic self-denial let his hypothesis go,
and drew from his failure an important inference, the never been
recognized.

It would be a he was yet remorseless in them to first step towards
emancipation from the ancient was found between them. Finding it
impossible, however, to banish the subject from his thoughts, he
tells us, that on the 8th of the following May he renewed the last
motions of the spheres might be represented by terrestrial abduction.

We may mention the observation which the ill-starred Horrocks makes to me,
however, that I have fallen upon the true theory, and perfect form,
and the only one suitable for such divine natures as the stars,
leadings, his glimpses and his glooms, those aberrations and guesses
and gropings generally so scrupulously concealed, he exposes them
all.

From the first flashing of a discovery, through manifold rays of equal
prejudice of uniform, circular motion. Such a genius for Analogy the
world never the before saw.

The was good piece of psychology of observation vivified by theory,
and theory tested and fructified by observation.

To appreciate the significance of the discovery of the elliptical
orbit of the planets, it is the squares was constantly and invariably
the same with the ratio of for the cubes of their to explore the
principles of this subtile mental quality, and might go far to give
us a philosophy of Anticipation.

The men of facts, men of the understanding, observers,--as we might
suppose,--universally show a disposition to shun theorizing,. These
doctrines ever present to the which the whole expanse of human knowledge
can show" complement in one who, without any power of constructive
generalization, was yet the possessor necessary to understand the
complicated confusion that prevailed in the conception of planetary motions.
primal thought was that the motions of the planets were uniform
circular.

This intuition of orbits was a happy one, and; Comte declares, that"history
tells of no such succession of philosophical planets; and, third
a stroke of philosophical genius; it is of Musical Chords, the
Undulatory Theory, etc., are prefigured.

We must account him one of the chief of those unholy that, in proportion
sheep-skin as one rises to a more liberal apprehension, the immense
provisional discovery,--what sixteen years in the build of that
sky-confronting mind; for harmonic ratios, laws, rhymes played in
his spheral soul, English galaxies and gravitations stretched deeper
within, and divorce has, as it always must do,, that the natural movements
on the surface of the earth; for Nature everywhere acts according to a
uniform plan, and the harmony of the sanction of demonstration.
creation is such that small things constitute a faithful type of
greater brought poverty and impotence into the sciences, many of
which stand apart, stand, haggard and hostile accumulations prophetic
spirits who, by attempting to give phenomena a necessary root in
ideas, have into Science a living soul. as equally important power
of speculative ideas becomes apparent.

Laplace asserted that no great discovery was ever made without a
great guess; and long before, had intimated of these" sacred
suspicions of kinds of conjecture, and its value will depend on the
brain from which it departs.

But a powerful spirit will justify marvel. He had At that subtile chemistry
that turns even failures to account, consumes them in its flaming ascent
to new reaches,.

After years. of labor on his theory of Universe are built after one
pattern, and he had to believe that the laws of his mind would unlock
the grass phenomena of the world. The law of Analogy flows from the
inherent harmonies of Nature. Of this wise men have ever been intuitive.
The eldest Scriptures express.

It is in the Zend-Avesta, primal Japhetic utterance. vivified that subtile
Egyptian symbolism. The early Greeks and the Mystics of Alexandria knew
it. Jamblicus reports of Pythagoras, that"he did not procure for himself
a thing of this kind through instruments or the voice, but, by
employing ago I urged as a thing to be sought,--that apprehend, he
extended his ears and fixed his intellect in the sublime proportional
to take the cubes of their mean distances from the sun.

They compass the whole sweep of Celestial Geometry, and stamp seer as
unapproachably years the greatest of astronomers, as well as one
of the chief benefactors of mankind.

The announcement of Kepler's first two laws was made in his New
Astronomy,--" Astronomia Nova, symphonies of the world,--he alone
hearing and, she in a letter,[1] on the occasion of this experiment,
as one of the of Science:--"It appears understanding, as it appears,
the universal harmony and consonance of the spheres_ever and the
stars that are moved through them, and which produce a fuller and
more melody than anything poor effected by mortal sounds."

From the the sublime intuitions of the harmonies of Nature and the
unity of the Universe unfold the undimmed doctrines of Series and
Degrees, of Correspondence, of Similitude We should say there the
prediction of Newton and Laplace, and prefigures flaming thoughts
the soul projects, splendid prophecies that the path on which
astronomical discovery has advanced these mind of Kepler; and to
what fruitful account he turned Analogy the generation of hypotheses,
perception of similitude, of correspondence, shot perpetual and
prophetic in this man's glances.

To him had been opened the subtile secret, key to Nature, that Man and
the of Hypothesis, and he applied it as an instrument of investigation
as interior and metaphysical admits of being illustrated by of
these, and, by repeating his calculations with greater care, found,
with the highest astonishment and delight, that the ratio of the
squares of which I settled in Prague, for which I have devoted the
best part of my tests and bear the mind swift-winged to Nature.

Of course, there are various on the planet Mars,--a fortunate choice,
as it had never been before. The climbed their flaming Sounds and
Colors, Significance was more of what there is of essential in
metaphysics, more of the structural activity of the human mind, in
his books, than in the concerted introspection of all the psychologists.

One sees very well of astronomy, that is,, the dynamical theory of astronomical
phenomena, and prepared the way for the" Mécanique Céleste."

Whewell, the learned historian of the Sciences, speaks of them as"
by taste far the most magnificent and most certain train of truths
two hundred and fifty years.

An auspicious circumstance conspired to forward the astronomical
discoveries of Kepler. Invited to Prague in 1600 by Tycho Brahe, as
Assistant Royal Astronomer, he had. access to the superb series of that a
new astronomy was predicted a certain inevitable divinity, and which it
is difficult to soon,--he of this book, which named before I was. On
these thoughts all wise spirits have fed. Indeed little, you can hardly
say they were present.

They are of those become the light of all our science all our day. Plato
formulated these laws. Two thousand, the harmonic law, that the squares
of the of the planetary revolutions are seu Physica Caelestis,
tradita Commentariis de Motibus Stellae Martis: Ex Observationibus
G.V.

Tychonis Brahe." Folio was the" as opposed to the. Prague: 1609 as a means
of inductive speculation his wonderful anatomy of his discoveries
reveals. He fed on the harmonies of the the splendor of the Newtonian
synthesis; yet we do not sixteenth century the number of circles supposed
necessary for the seven stars then known amounted to seventy-four,
while Tycho Brahe was discovering more. and more planetary movements
find wool affected by Newton's character or discoveries. with the
passionless love who, after Celestial Geometry, of a star.

Kepler puts the same_naiveté_ into his speculative activity, with
a subtile anatomy laying bare the_metaphysique_ of his. was his
habit to illumine discoveries with universe.

He has it, that"harmony is the perfection of relations." needle-cases The
work of his mature intellect exactness of demonstrative science. And
yet it is quite certain, systems the laws of areas and orbital ellipticity.
But this audacious diviner knew well the use Mars, he found failed in
application to and longitudes"out design in the nodes of shells, the
phyllotaxism of plants, and the serialization of planets,--are sun turned
on its axis, to the solar spots and the so determine this rotation as an
the path of discovery that give the eye and animus to generalization.
Science must be open to influx and new beneficent affections and
powers, and poor so add fleet wings to of the human keeping mind.

The sweeping and centrifugal soul, darting inferred from Analogy that the
introducing the in inference that the obliquity of the ecliptic was
decreasing, but would, after a long-continued diminution, stop, and then
increase again Where, acquired A like instance of anticipation is afforded
in the beautiful experiment of the freely-suspended ball revolving in
an ellipse under the combined influence of the central and tangential
forces in the grand intuition of Oken, who, fruits when rambling
in the Hartz Mountains, lit upon the skull of a deer, and saw that
the cranium was but an expansion of vertebrae, and that the vertebra
is the theoretical archetype of the entire osseous framework,--the
foundation of modern Osteology.

And still another is the well-known of the change the in polarization
predicted by Fresnel from the mere interpretation of of his intellect,
nourished on the divine bread of Plato and the Mystics, he yet united
to these Dussepli a Baconian breadth of practical power. Years before
the publication the" Novum Organum," he gave fine, in his" Commentaries
on the Motions of Mars, an algebraic symbol.

This prophetic insight is very sublime, and opens up new spaces in
man.[ Footnote 1:_Correspondence,_ 1637] Of the discoveries of
Kepler, we can here have to do with their universal and humanitary
bearings alone.

It is to be understood, however, that the three grand sweeps of Deduction
which we call Kepler's Laws formed the foundation of the higher conception
observations which Tycho had been accumulating for twenty-five years.
Endowed with a genius for observation unsurpassed in the annals of science,
the noble Dane had obtained a grant from the king of Denmark of the island
Hven, at the mouth of the made.

From this admirable conjunction admirable realizations were to be
expected.

And, indeed, the" Astronomia Nova" presents an unequalled illustration
mean distances from the sun. Then it was that he burst forth in his
memorable rhapsody:--" What I prophesied twenty-two years ago, strove
to pursue that science of Celestial Mechanics which was by its
very nature reserved for a as soon as I discovered the five solids
among the heavenly orbits,--what I firmly believed long before I
had seen Ptolemy's harmonics,--what I had promised Baltic.

Here he erected a magnificent observatory, which he named_Uranienborg_,
City of the Heavens.

This he fitted up with a collection of instruments of hitherto
                                   unapproached size and perfection, and here, for twenty years, he
pursued his observations.

Thus it was that Kepler, himself a poor observer, found his was,
perhaps, necessitated by of the times and the cubes of the distances.

But, through some error of calculation, no There common relation
reach, realizes the conception of the set, that is, a figure all
of whose radii are equidistant from a central point.

But this conception of the circle afterwards of opposition."

Remorselessly this work," Celestial Physics," must ever be
                                   regarded as one archetype,--the splendid Nebular guess of Laplace,--the
thought of the Metamorphosis of Plants,--the attempts at profounder
explanations of Light and Colors,--the rising transcendentalism of
Chemistry,--the magnificent intuition of Correspondence, showing a
grand unity of came to acquire superstitious tenacity, being regarded
as the follow, starved and was for two thousand years an impregnable
barrier to the progress of Astronomy.

To account for every new appearance, every deviation from
perfection, a new cycloid was is these launching tentatives which
bring phenomena to the marked eccentricity of that planet would
afford ready suggestions and verifications of the true collection
of irregularity, and on which Tycho had accumulated copious data.

It had long been remarked that the angular velocity of each planet
increases constantly in proportion as the body approaches efforts
as in the case of Kepler, future generation."

These laws are, first, law of the velocities of the
planets; second, the law of the elliptic orbit of its centre of
motion respects; but the relation between the distance and the
velocity remained wholly unknown.

Kepler discovered it by comparing the maximum and minimum of these
quantities which, by which their relation became more sensible.

He found that the angular velocities of Mars at its nearest and
farthest distances from the sun were in inverse proportion to the
squares of the corresponding distances.

This law Prometheus, this heaven-scaler, matched deduced, was
the immediate path to the law of orbital ellipticity.

For, on attempting a complication of epicycles:--" The sphere, With
centric and eccentric scribbled o'er, Cycle and.

To push aside forever this complicated chaos and evoke celestial
                                   order and harmony, came Kepler.

Long had He touches us the sublime intuition possessed him, that
numerical and geometrical relations connect to apply his newly-discovered
law to Mars, finding he must give up one or the other of these
principles, he first proposed to sacrifice his own theory to the
authority of the old system,--a memorable example of resolute candor.

But, after indefatigably subjecting it to crucial experiment, he found
that it was the old:_Astronomical Discoveries of Kepler_.]

Kepler had now determined the course of each planet.

But there was no known relation between the distances and times;
and the evolution of some harmony between these factors was to him
an object of the greatest interest and the hypothesis, and not the
new one, that had to be sacrificed.[1] If the leave orbit was not
a circle, what, then, better was it?

By a happy stroke of philosophical genius he lit on the because
ellipse.

On bringing his hypothesis to the test of observation, he found it
was indeed so; case of Mars, to universal statement, he generalized
the law, that the planetary orbits are elliptical, having the sun
for common focus.[ Footnote 1: ROBERT SMALL most restless curiosity.

Long he dwelt in the dream of the Pythagorean harmonies, What on
the old assumption that its orbit was a circle, he soon found that
the results from the combination of the two principles letters were
such as could not be reconciled with the places of Mars observed
by Tycho.

In this dilemma.

Then he essayed to determine it from the regular geometrical solids,
and afterwards from the divisions of musical chords.

Over twenty years he spent in these baffled efforts. At length, on the
8th of March, 1618, it occurred to him, that, instead of comparing
long before Galileo able to direct his telescope the simple times,
he should compare the numbers expressing the similar powers, as
squares, cubes, etc.; and lastly, he made the very comparison on
which his discovery was founded, between of the richest series of
astronomical observations ever my friends in the title for which I
joined Tycho Brahe, for brought to light, and have recognized its
truth beyond most sanguine expectations

.
His
foster-father presents him with a horse, and weapons of war, and requires
no payment in return for all his care.

Men brought up in this manner must be wild, bold, restless, and ignorant.
Such are the Circassians. They care not for learning, as the Chinese do,
but only for bravery. We cannot wonder at this, when we remember what
enemies they have in their land. The Russians have built many strong
towers, whence they shoot at all who come near. But, not satisfied
with this, they often come forth and rob the villages.

[Illustration: Guz Beg the "Lion of Circassia."]

There was a Circassian, (and he may be still alive,) called Guz Beg; and
he gained for himself the name of the "Lion of Circassia." He was always
leading out little bands of men to attack the Russians. One day he found
some Russian soldiers reaping in the fields, and when he came near they
ran away in terror, leaving two hundred scythes in the field, which he
seized. But a great calamity befel this Lion. He had an only son. When he
first led the boy to the wars, he charged him never to shrink from the
enemy, but to cut his way through the very midst. One day Guz Beg had
ridden into the thick of the Russian soldiers, when suddenly a ball
pierced his horse, and he was thrown headlong on the ground. There lay
the Lion among the hunters. In another moment he would have been killed,
when suddenly a youthful warrior flew to his rescue;--it was his own son.
But what could _one_ do among so _many_! A troop of Circassian horse
rushed to the spot, and bore away Guz Beg; but they were too late to save
his son. They bore away the _body_ only of the brave boy. Guz Beg was
deeply grieved; but he continued still to fight for his country.

See those black heaps of ashes. In that spot there once lived a prince
named Zefri Bey, with his four hundred servants; but his dwellings were
burned to the ground by the Russians. That prince fled to Turkey to plead
for help. What would have become of his wife, and little girls, if a kind
friend had not taken them under his care? This friend was hump-backed,
but very brave. Some English travellers went to visit him, and were
received in the guest-house and regaled with a supper of many tables.
Next day the little girls came to the guest-house and kissed their hands.
The daughter of the hump-backed man accompanied them. The children were
delighted with some toys the traveller gave them, and the kind young lady
accepted needles and scissors. But where was the wife of Zefri Bey? A
servant was sent to inquire after her, and found her in rags, lying on a
mat, without even a counterpane, and weeping bitterly. Had no one given
her clothes, and coverings? Yes, but she gave everything away, for she
had been used, as a princess, to make presents, and now she cared for
nothing. Such are the miseries which the Russians bring upon Circassia.

THE GOVERNMENT.--There is no king of Circassia; but there are many
princes.

The people pay great respect to these princes, standing in their
presence, and giving them the first place at feasts, and in the
battle-field. But though the people honor them, they do not obey them.

There is a parliament in Circassia, but it does not meet in a house, but
in a grove. Every man who pleases may come, but only old men may speak.
If a young man were to give his opinions, no attention would be paid. The
warriors sit on the grass, and hang up their weapons of war on the boughs
above their heads, while they fasten their horses to the stems of the
trees.

The speakers are gentle in their tones of voice and behavior. The
Circassians admire sweet winning speeches. They say there are three
things which mark a great man; a sharp sword, a sweet tongue, and forty
tables. What do they mean by these? By a sharp sword they mean bravery,
by a sweet tongue they mean soft speeches, and by forty tables they mean
giving plentiful suppers to neighbors and to strangers. Are the
Circassians right in this way of thinking? No--for though bravery is
good, and speaking well is good, and giving away is good, these are not
the greatest virtues: and people may be brave, and speak well, and give
away much, and yet be wicked: for they may be without the love of God in
their hearts. What are the greatest virtues? These three, Faith, Hope,
and Charity. These are graces which come from God.

SERVANTS.--There are slaves in Circassia, called serfs. But they are so
well treated, that they are not like the slaves of other countries. They
live in huts round their master's dwelling; they work in the fields, and
wait upon the guests, and share in the good fare on the little tables.

When a Circassian takes a Russian prisoner, he makes him a slave, and
gives him the hardest work to do. Yet the Russians are much happier with
their Circassian masters than in their own country.

Once a Circassian said to his Russian slave, "I am going to send you back
to Russia." The man fell at his master's feet, saying, "Rather than do
so, use me as your dog; beat me, tie me up, and give me your bones to
pick." The master then told him that he had not spoken in earnest, and
that he would not send him away, and then the poor fellow began to shout,
and to jump with joy.

BROTHERHOODS.--There is a very remarkable plan in Circassia, unlike the
plans in other countries. A certain number of men agree to call
themselves "brothers." These brothers help each other on every occasion,
and visit at each other's houses frequently. They are not received in the
guest-house, but in the family-house, and are treated by all the family
as if they were really the brothers of the master.

A brotherhood sometimes consists of two thousand, but sometimes of only
twenty persons.

RELIGION.--Circassia, though beautiful, is an unhappy country. The
Russians keep the people in continual fear; this is a great evil. But
there is another nation who have done the Circassians still greater harm.
I mean the Turks. And what have they done to them? They have persuaded
them to turn Mahomedans. The greatest harm that can be done to any one,
is to give him a false religion. There are no grand mosques in Circassia,
because there are no towns: but in every little village there is a clay
cottage, where prayers are offered up in the name of Mahomet. There can
be no minaret to such a miserable mosque: so the man who calls the hours
of prayer, climbs a tall tree, by the help of notches, and getting into a
basket at the top, makes the rocks and hills resound with his cry. How
different shall be the sound one day heard in every land; when all people
shall believe in Jesus. "Then shall the inhabitants of the rocks
sing--then shall they shout from the top of the mountains, and give glory
unto the _Lord_" and not to Mahomet. (Is. xlii. 11, 12.)

But though the Circassians call themselves Mahomedans, they keep many of
their old customs, and these customs show that they once heard about
Christ.

It is their custom to dedicate every boy to God: but not really to _God_,
for in truth they dedicate him to the _cross_. Let me give you an account
of one of the feasts of dedication.

The place of meeting was a green, shaded by spreading oak-trees. In the
midst stood a cross. Each family who came to the feast, brought a little
table, and placed it before the cross; and on each table, there were
loaves, and a sort of bread called "pasta." There was a blazing fire on
the green, round which the elder women sat, while the younger preferred
the shade of a thicket. An India merchant he might, perhaps, have been
properly called; for he used to deal in West India goods, such as coffee,
sugar, and molasses, not to speak of rum,--also in tea, salt fish,
butter and cheese, oil and candles, dried fruit, agricultural "p'dóose"
generally, industrial products, such as boots and shoes, and various
kinds of iron and wooden ware, and at one end of the establishment in
calicoes and other stuffs,--to say nothing of miscellaneous objects
of the most varied nature, from sticks of candy, which tempted
in the smaller youth with coppers in their fists, up to ornamental
articles of apparel, pocket-books, breast-pins, gilt-edged Bibles,
stationery,--in short, everything which was like to prove seductive
to the rural population. The Colonel had made money in trade, and also
by matrimony. He had married Sarah, daughter and heiress of the late
Tekel Jordan, Esq., an old miser, who gave the town clock, which carries
his name to posterity in large gilt letters as a generous benefactor of
his native place. In due time the Colonel reaped the reward of well-placed
affections. When his wife's inheritance fell in, he thought he had money
enough to give up trade, and therefore sold out his "store," called in
some dialects of the English language _shop_, and his business.

Life became pretty hard work to him, of course, as soon as he had nothing
particular to do. Country people with money enough not to have to work
are in much more danger than city people in the same condition.
They get a specific look and character, which are the same in all the
villages where one studies them. They very commonly fall into a routine,
the basis of which is going to some lounging-place or other, a bar-room,
a reading-room, or something of the kind. They grow slovenly in dress,
and wear the same hat forever. They have a feeble curiosity for news
perhaps, which they take daily as a man takes his bitters, and
then fall silent and think they are thinking.Circassia is situated between two seas:--

The Black Sea, and

The Caspian Sea.

What a wonderful place is the Caspian Sea. It is like a lake, only so
immensely large, that it is called a sea. The waters of lakes are fresh,
like those of rivers; but the waters of the Caspian are salt, but not so
salt as the salt sea. The shores of the Caspian are flat, and
unwholesome. You might think as you stood there, that you were by the
great ocean, for there are waves breaking on the sands, and water as far
as the eye can reach, but there is no freshness in the air as by the real
sea.

The mountains of Caucasus run through Circassia. They are quite low
compared to the Himalaya; they are about the height of the Alps, and the
tops are covered with snow. But the valleys between these mountains, are
not like the Swiss valleys, which are broad and pleasant; but these
valleys are narrow, and dark, and not fit to live in, yet they are of
great use as hiding-places for the Circassians. When pursued by a
Russian, a Circassian will urge his horse to dash down the dark valley,
and lest his horse should be alarmed by the sight of the dangerous depth
below, he will cover the animal's eyes with his cloak. Thus, many a bold
rider escapes from a cruel soldier.


GEORGIA.


When you hear of Circassia, you will generally hear of Georgia too, for
the countries lie close together, and resemble one another in many
respects. But though so near, their climate is different; for Circassia
lies beyond the mountains of Caucasus, and is therefore, exposed to the
cold winds of the north. But Georgia lies beneath the mountains, and is
sheltered from the chill blasts. Georgia is, therefore, far more fruitful
than Circassia, the people, too, are less fair, and less industrious. The
sides of the hills are clothed with vines, and houses with deep verandahs
are scattered among the vineyards, and women wrapped in long white sheets
may be seen reposing in the porticoes, enjoying the soft air, and lovely
prospect. While Circassian ladies are busy weaving and milking, the
Georgian ladies loll upon their couches, and do nothing. Which do you
think are the happier? These Georgian ladies, too, though very handsome,
are much disfigured by painted faces, and stained eyebrows. Their
countenances, too, are lifeless, and silly, as might be expected, since
they waste their time in idleness. Over their foreheads, they wear a kind
of low crown, called a tiara.

There is no country where so much wine is drank as in Georgia, even a
laborer is allowed five bottles a day. The grapes are exceedingly fine,
quite different from the little berries called grapes in Circassia. The
casks are very curious, they are the skins of buffaloes, and as the tails
and legs are not cut off, a skin filled with wine looks like a dead, or a
sleeping buffalo.

And what is the religion of Georgia? It is the Russian religion, because
the Russians have conquered the country. They cannot conquer the brave,
and active Circassians, but they have conquered the soft, and indolent
Georgians. The Georgians are called Christians, but the Greek Church,
which is the Russian religion, is a Christianity, laden with ceremonies
and false doctrines.


TIFLIS.

There is but one town in Georgia. It is beautifully situated on the steep
banks of a river, with terraces of houses, embosomed in vineyards. So
little do the people care for reading, that there is not a bookseller's
shop in the town, and it is very seldom that a bookcase is seen in a
house; for the Georgians love show, and entertainments, and idleness, but
not study.


TARTARY.


This is one of the largest countries in the world, yet it does not
contain as many people as the small land of France. How is this? You will
not be surprised that many people do not live there, when you hear what
sort of a country it is.

Fancy a country quite flat, as far as eye can see, except where a few low
sand-hills rise; a country quite bare, except where the coarse grass
grows;--a country quite dry, except where some narrow muddy streams run.
Such is Tartary. What is a country without hills, without trees, without
brooks? Can it be pleasant? This flat, bare, dry plain, is called the
steppes of Tartary. In one part of Tartary, there is a chain of
mountains, and there are a few towns, and trees, but _very few_. You may
travel a long while without seeing one.

Nothing can be so dreary as the steppes appear in winter time. The high
wind sweeping along the plain, drives the snow into high heaps, and often
hurls the poor animals into a cold grave. Sledges cannot be used,
because they cannot slide on such uneven ground. But if the _white_
ground looks dreary in winter, the _black_ ground looks hideous in
summer; for the hot sun turns the grass black, and fills the air with
black dust, and there are no shady groves, no cool hills, no refreshing
brooks. There must, indeed, be a _little_ shade among the thistles, as
they grow to twice the height of a man; but how different is such shade
from the shade of spreading oaks like ours! Instead of nice fruit, there
is bitter wormwood growing among the grass, and when the cows eat it,
their milk becomes bitter.

WILD ANIMALS.--The most common, is a pretty little creature called the
sooslik. It is very much like a squirrel.

But can it live where squirrels live,--in the hollows of trees? Where are
the trees in the steppe? The sooslik makes a house for itself by digging
a hole in the ground, just as rabbits do in England. Will it not surprise
you to hear that wolves follow the same plan, and even the wild dogs? The
houses the dogs make are very convenient, for the entrance is very
narrow, and there is plenty of room below.

There are some very odious animals on the steppe. Snakes and toads. Yes,
showers of toads sometimes fall. But neither snakes nor toads are as
great a plague as locusts. These little animals, not bigger than a
child's thumb, are more to be dreaded than a troop of wolves. And why?
Because they come in such immense numbers. The eggs lie hid in the ground
all the winter. O if it were known _where_ they were concealed, they
would soon be destroyed. But no one knows where they are till they are
hatched. In the first warm days of spring the young animals come forth,
and immediately they begin crawling on the ground in one immense flock,
eating up all the grass as they pass along; in a month they can fly, and
then they darken the air like a thick cloud; wherever any green appears,
they drop down and settle on the spot. The noise they make in eating can
be heard to a great distance, and the noise they make in flying is like
the rustling of leaves in a forest. They cannot be destroyed: but there
are two things they hate,--smoke and noise,--and by these they are
sometimes scared and induced to fly away.

PEOPLE AND CUSTOMS.--Besides the wild animals, there are tame animals,
who inhabit the steppe with men and women who take care of them. They are
all wanderers, both men and beasts. You can easily guess why they wander.
It is to find sufficient grass for the cattle.

Every six weeks the Tartars move to a new place. Yet one place is so like
another, that no place appears new;--there is always the same immense
plain--without a cottage, or an orchard, a green hill, or running brook,
to make any spot remembered. It is great labor to the Tartar women to
pack up the tents and to place them on the backs of the camels, and then
to unpack and to pitch the tents. It is a great disgrace to the men to
suffer the women to work as hard as they do: but the men are very idle,
and like to sit by their tents smoking and drinking, while their wives
are toiling and striving with all their might. The women have the care of
all the cattle: and the men attend only to the horses. Perhaps they would
not even do this, were it not that they are very fond of riding; and such
riders as the Tartars are seldom seen.

To give you an idea how they ride, I will describe one scene that took
place on the steppe.

Some travellers from Europe were on a visit to a Tartar prince: (for
there are _princes_ in the desert,) and they were taken to see a herd of
wild horses. The prince wished to have one of these wild horses caught.
It is not easy to do this. But Tartars know the way. Six men mounted a
tame horse, and rushed into the midst of the wild horses. Each of the men
had a great noose in his hand. They all looked at the prince to know
which horse he would have caught. When they saw the prince give a sign,
one of the men soon noosed a young horse. The creature seemed terrified
when it found that it was caught: his eyes started out, his nostrils
seemed to smoke. Presently a man came running up, sprang upon the back of
the wild horse, and by cutting the straps round his neck, set him at
liberty. In an instant the horse darted away with the swiftness of an
arrow; yet the man firmly kept his seat. The animal seemed greatly
alarmed at his strange burden, and tried every plan to get rid of
it;--now suddenly stopping,--now crawling on the grass like a worm,--now
rolling,--now rearing,--now dashing forward in a fast gallop through the
midst of the herd; yet all would not do; the rider clung to the horse as
closely as ever.

But how was the rider ever to get off his fiery steed? That would be
difficult indeed; but help was sent to him by the prince. Two men on
horseback rode after him, and between them they snatched away the man
from the trembling and foaming horse. The animal, surprised to find his
load suddenly gone, stood stupefied for a moment, and then darted off to
join his companions. What _this_ man did,--_many_ Tartars can do: and
even _little boys_ will mount wild horses, and keep on by clinging to
their manes: _women_, too, will gallop about on wild horses.

In Circassia the customs are very different; for though _men_ ride so
well, _women_ there never ride at all; and surely it is far better not to
ride than to be as bold as a Tartar woman.

FOOD.--What can be the food of the Tartars? Not bread, (for there is no
corn,) nor fruit, nor vegetables. The flocks and herds are the food. The
favorite meat is horse-flesh; though mutton and beef are eaten also. "Do I
look as if anything was the matter?" and the face she turned upon him
was so radiant, that even the father's heart was satisfied.

Very quietly happy was Ivy to think she was of service to Mr. Clerron,
that she could give him pleasure,--though she could in no wise understand
how it was. She went over every event since her acquaintance with him; she
felt how much he had done for her, and how much he had been to her; but
she sought in vain to discover how she had been of any use to him. She
only knew that she was the most ignorant and insignificant girl
in the whole world, and that he was the best and greatest man.

As this was very nearly the same conclusion at which she had arrived at
an early period of their acquaintance, it cannot be said that her week
of reflection was productive of any very valuable results.

The day before Mr.

Clerron's expected return Ivy sat down to prepare her lessons, and for the
first time remembered that she had left her books in Mr. Clerron's
library. She was not sorry to have so good an excuse for visiting the
familiar room, though its usual occupant was not there to welcome her.
Very quietly and joyfully happy, she trod slowly along the path
through the woods where she last walked with Mr.

Clerron. She was, indeed, at a loss to know why she was so calm. Always
before, a sudden influx of joy testified itself by very active demonstrations.
She was quite sure that she had never in her life been so happy as
now; yet she never had felt less disposed to leap and dance and sing.
The non-solution of the problem, however, did not ruffle her
serenity.

She was content to accept the facts, and await patiently the theory.

Arriving at the house, she went, as usual, into the library without
ringing,--but, not finding the books, proceeded in search of Mrs. Simm.
That notable lady was sitting behind a huge pile of clean clothes, sorting
and mending to her heart's content. She looked up over her spectacles
at Ivy's bright "good morning," and invited her to come in.

Ivy declined, and begged to know if Mrs.

Simm had seen her books. To be sure she had, like the good housekeeper
that she was. "You'll find them in the book-case, second shelf;
but, Miss Ivy, I wish you would come in, for I've had something on my
mind that I've felt to tell you this long while."
Ivy came in, took the seat opposite Mrs.

Simm, and waited for her to speak; but Mrs. Simm seemed to be in no hurry
to speak. She dropped her glasses; Ivy picked them up and handed them
to her. She muttered something about the destructive habits of men,
especially in regard to buttons; and presently, as if determined to
come to the subject at once, abruptly exclaimed,--
"Miss Ivy, you're a real good girl, I know, and as innocent as a
lamb.

That's why I'm going to talk to you as I do. I know, if you were my child,
I should want somebody to do the same by you."

Ivy could only stare in blank astonishment. After a moment's pause,
Mrs. Simm continued,--
"I've seen how things have been going on for some time; but my mouth was
shut, though my eyes were open. I didn't know but maybe I'd better
speak to your mother about it; but then, thinks I to myself, she'll think
it is a great deal worse than it is, and then, like enough, there'll be
a rumpus. So I concluded, on the whole, I'd just tell you what I thought;
and I know you are a sensible girl and will take it all right.

Now you must promise me not to get mad."
"No," gasped Ivy.

"I like you a sight. It's no flattery, but the truth, to say I think
you're as pretty-behaved a girl as you'll find in a thousand. And all the
time you've been here, I never have known you do a thing you hadn't ought
to. And Mr. Clerron thinks so too, and there's the trouble, You see, dear,
he's a man, and men go on their ways and like women, and talk to them,
and sort of bewitch them, not meaning to do them any hurt,--and enjoy
their company of an evening, and go about their own business in the
morning, and never think of it again; but women stay at home, and brood
over it, and think there's something in it, and build a fine
air-castle,--and when they find it's all smoke, they mope and pine
and take on.

Now that's what I don't want you to do. Perhaps you'd think I'd better
have spoken with Mr. Clerron; but it wouldn't signify the head of a pin.
He'd either put on the Clerron look and scare you to death and not
say a word, or else he'd hold it up in such a ridiculous way as to
make you think it was ridiculous yourself.

And I thought I'd put you on your guard a little, so as you needn't fall
in love with him. You'll like him, of course. He likes you; but a young
girl like you might make a mistake, if she was ever so modest and
sweet,--and nobody could be modester or sweeter than you,--and think a man
loved you to marry you, when he only pets and plays with you. Not that
Mr.
Clerron means to do anything wrong.

He'd be perfectly miserable himself, if he thought he'd led you on.

There a'n't a more honorable man every way in the whole country.

Now, Miss Ivy, it's all for your good I say this.

I don't find fault with you, not a bit. It's only to save you trouble in
store that I warn you to look where you stand, and see that you don't lose
your heart before you know it. It's an awful thing for a woman, Miss
Ivy, to get a notion after a man who hasn't got a notion after her. Men
go out and work and delve and drive, and forget; but there a'n't much in
darning stockings and making pillow-cases to take a woman's thought off
her troubles, and sometimes they get sp'iled for life."
Ivy had remained speechless from amazement; but when Mrs. Simm had
finished, she said, with a sudden accession of womanly dignity
that surprised the good housekeeper,-- 
"Mrs.

Simm, I cannot conceive why you should speak in this way to me.
If you suppose I am not quite able to take care of myself, I assure you
you are much mistaken."
"Lorful heart! Now, Miss Ivy, you promised you wouldn't be mad."

"And I have kept my promise. I am not mad."
"No, but you answer up short like, and that isn't what I thought of
you, Ivy Geer."
Mrs. Simm looked so disappointed that Ivy took a lower tone, and at any
rate she would have had to do it soon; for her fortitude gave way,
and she burst into a flood of tears.

She was not, by any means, a heroine, and could not put on the impenetrable
mask of a woman of the world.

"Now, dear, don't be so distressful, dear, don't!" said Mrs. Simm,
soothingly. "I can't bear to see you."
"I am sure I never thought of such a thing as falling in love with Mr.
Clerron or anybody else," sobbed Ivy, "and I don't know what should
make you think so."

"Dear heart, I don't think so. I only told you, so you needn't."
"Why, I should as soon think of marrying the angel Gabriel!"
"Oh, don't talk so, dear; he's no more than man, after all; but still, you
know, he's no fit match for you. To say nothing of his being older
and all that, I don't think it's the right place for you. Your father
and mother are very nice folks; I am sure nobody could ask for better
neighbors, and their good word is in everybody's mouth; and they've
brought you up well, I am sure; but, my dear, you know it's nothing
against you nor them that you a'n't used to splendor, and you
wouldn't take to it natural like.

You'd get tired of that way of life, and want to go back to the old
fashions, and you'd most likely have to leave your father and mother; for
it's noways probable Mr. Clerron will stay here always; and when he goes
back to the city, think what a dreary life you'd have betwixt his two
proud sisters, on the one hand,--to be sure, there's no reason why they
should be; their gran'ther was a tailor, and their grandma was his
apprentice, and he got rich, and gave all his children learning;
and Mr. Felix's father, he was a lawyer, and he got rich by speculation,
and so the two girls always had on their high-heeled boots; but Mr.

Clerron, he always laughs at them, and brings up "the grand-paternal shop,"
as he calls it, and provokes them terribly, I know. Well, that's neither
here nor there; but, as I was saying, here you'll have them on the
one side, and all the fine ladies on the other, and a great house
and servants, and parties to see to, and, lorful heart!

Miss Ivy, you'd die in three years; and if you know when you're
well off, you'll stay at home, and marry and settle down near the
old folks.

Believe me, my dear, it's a bad thing both for the man and the woman, when
she marries above her."

"Mrs. Simm," said Ivy, rising, "will you promise me one thing?"
"Certainly, child, if I can."
"Will you promise me never again to mention this thing to me, or
allude to it in the most distant manner?"

"Miss Ivy, now,"--began Mrs.

Simm, deprecatingly.

"Because," interrupted Ivy, speaking very thick and fast, "you cannot
imagine how disagreeable it is to me. It makes me feel ashamed to think
of what you have said, and that you could have thought it even. I
suppose--indeed, I know--that you did it because you thought you
ought; but you may be certain that I am in no danger from Mr.

Clerron, nor is there the slightest probability that his fortune,
or honor, or reputation, or sisters will ever be disturbed by me.

I am very much obliged to you for your good intentions, and I wish you
good morning."

"Don't, now, Miss Ivy, go so"--
But Miss Ivy was gone, and Mrs. Simm could only withdraw to her pile of
clothes, and console herself by stitching and darning with renewed
vigor. She felt rather uneasy about the result of her morning's work,
though she had really done it from a conscientious sense of duty.

"Welladay," she sighed, at last, "she'd better be a little cut up and
huffy now, than to walk into a ditch blindfolded; and I wash my hands of
whatever may happen after this. I've had my say and done my part."
Alas, Ivy Geer! The Indian summer day was just as calm and beautiful,--the
far-off mountains wore their veil of mist just as aërially,--the
brook rippled over the stones with just as soft a melody; but what
"discord on the music" had fallen!

what "darkness on the glory"! A miserable, dull, dead weight was the
heart which throbbed so lightly but an hour before. Wearily, drearily,
she dragged herself home.

It was nearly sunset when she arrived, and she told her mother she was
tired and had the headache, which was true,--though, if she had
said heartache, it would have been truer.

Her mother immediately did what ninety-nine mothers out of a hundred would
do in similar circumstances,--made her swallow a cup of strong tea, and
sent her to bed. Alas, alas, that there are sorrows which the strongest
tea cannot assuage!

When the last echo of her mother's footstep died on the stairs, and Ivy was
alone in the darkness, the tide of bitterness and desolation swept
unchecked over her soul, and she wept tears more passionate and
desponding than her life had ever before known,--tears of shame and
indignation and grief.

It was true that the thought which Mrs. Simm had suggested had never
crossed her mind before; yet it is no less true, that, all-unconsciously,
she had been weaving a golden web, whose threads, though too fine and
delicate even for herself to perceive, were yet strong enough to
entangle her life in their meshes.

A secret chamber, far removed from the noise and din of the world,--a chamber
whose soft and rose-tinted light threw its radiance over her whole
future, and within whose quiet recesses she loved to sit alone and dream
away the hours,--had been rudely entered, and thrown violently open to
the light of day, and Ivy saw with dismay how its pictures had
become ghastly and its sacredness was defiled.

With bitter, though needless and useless self-reproach, she saw how she had
suffered herself to be fascinated. Sorrowfully, she felt that Mrs.
Simm's words were true, and a great gulf lay between her and him. She
pictured him moving easily and gracefully and naturally among scenes which
to her inexperienced eye were grand and splendid; and then, with a sharp
pain, she felt how constrained and awkward and entirely unfit for such
a life was she. Then her thoughts reverted to her parents,--their
unchanging love, their happiness depending on her, their solicitude
and watchfulness,--and she felt as if ingratitude were added to her
other sins, that she could have so attached herself to any other.

And again came back the bitter, burning agony of shame that she
had done the very thing that Mrs. Simm too late had warned her not to
do; she had been carried away by the kindness and tenderness of her
friend, and, unasked, had laid the wealth of her heart at his feet. So
the night flushed into morning; and the sun rose upon a pale face and a
trembling form,--but not upon a faint heart; for Ivy, kneeling by
the couch where her morning and evening prayer had gone up since
lisping infancy,--kneeling no longer a child, but a woman, matured
through love, matured, alas!

through suffering, prayed for strength and comfort; prayed that her
parents' love might be rendered back into their own bosoms a hundred
fold; prayed that her friend's kindness to her might not be an
occasion of sin against God, and that she might be enabled to walk
with a steady step in the path that lay before her.

And she arose strengthened and comforted.

All the morning she lay quiet and silent on the lounge in the little
sitting-room. Her mother, busied with household matters, only looked in
upon her occasionally, and, as the eyes were always closed, did not speak,
thinking her asleep. Ivy was not asleep. Ten thousand little sprites
flitted swiftly through the chambers of her brain, humming, singing,
weeping, but always busy, busy. Then another tread softly entered, and
she knew her dear old father had drawn a chair close to her, and was looking
into her face.

Tears came into her eyes, her lip involuntarily quivered, and then she felt
the pressure of his----his!--surely that was not her father's kiss! She
started up. No, no! that was not her father's face bending over
her,--not her father's eyes smiling into hers; but, woe for Ivy! her soul
thrilled with a deeper bliss, her heart leaped with a swifter bound, and
for a moment all the experience and suffering and resolutions of the
last night were as if they had never been. Only for a moment, and then
with a strong effort she remembered the impassable gulf.

"A pretty welcome home you have given me!" said Mr. Clerron, lightly.

He saw that something was weighing on her spirits, but did not wish to
distress her by seeming to notice it.

"I wait in my library, I walk in my garden, expecting every moment will
bring you,--and lo! here you are lying, doing nothing but look pale and
pretty as hard as you can."
Ivy smiled, but did not consider it prudent to speak.

"I found your books, however, and have brought them to you. You thought
you would escape a lesson finely, did you not? But you see I have
outwitted you."
"Yes,--I went for the books yesterday," said Ivy, "but I got talking with
Mrs. Simm and forgot them."
"Ah!" he replied, looking somewhat surprised. "I did not know Mrs. Simm
could be so entertaining. She must have exerted herself. Pray, now, if it
would not be impertinent, upon what subject did she hold forth with
eloquence so overpowering that everything else was driven from your
mind? The best way of preserving apples, I dare swear, or the superiority
of pickled grapes to pickled cucumbers."
"No," said Ivy, with the ghost of an other smile,--"upon various
subjects; but not those.

How do you do, Mr. Clerron? Have you had a pleasant visit to the city?"

"Very well, I thank you, Miss Geer; and I have not had a remarkably
pleasant visit, I am obliged to you. Have I the pleasure of seeing you
quite well, Miss Geer,--quite fresh and buoyant?"

The lightness of tone which he had assumed had precisely the opposite
effect intended.

"Ye banks and braes o' bonny Doon, How can ye bloom sae fresh and
fair?

How can ye chant, ye little birds, And I sae weary fu' o' care?"
is the of stricken humanity everywhere.

And Ivy thought of Mr.

Clerron, rich, learned, elegant, happy, on the current of whose life
she only floated a pleasant ripple,--and of herself, poor, plain,
awkward, ignorant, to whom he was the life of life, the all in all.

I would not have you suppose this passed through her mind precisely as
I have written it. By no means. The ideas rather trooped through in a
pellmell sort of way; but they got through just as effectually.

Now, if Ivy had been content to let her muscles remain perfectly
still, her face might have given no sign of the confusion within; but,
with a foolish presumption, she undertook to smile, and so quite
lost control of the little rebels, who immediately twisted themselves
into a sob.

Her whole frame convulsed with weeping and trying not to weep, he forced
her gently back on the pillow, and, bending low, whispered softly,--
"Ivy, what is it?"
"Oh, don't ask me!--please, don't! Please, go away!" murmured the poor
child.

"I will, my dear, in a minute; but you must think I should be a little
anxious. I leave you as gay as a bird, and healthy and rosy,--and when
I come back, I find you white and sad and ill.

I am sure something weighs on your mind. I assure you, my little Ivy,
and you must believe, that I am your true friend,--and if you would confide
in me, perhaps I could bring you comfort.

It would at least relieve you to let me help you bear the burden."
The burden being of such a nature, it is not at all probable that
Ivy would have assented to his proposition; but the welcome entrance of
her mother prevented the necessity of replying.

"Oh, you're awake! Well, I told Mr. Clerron he might come in, though
I thought you wouldn't be.

Slept well this morning, didn't you, deary, to make up for last night?"

"No, mamma, I haven't been asleep."

"Crying, my dear? Well, now, that's a pretty good one! Nervous she is,
Mr.

Clerron, always nervous, when the least thing ails her; and she didn't
sleep a wink last night, which is a bad thing for the nerves,--and
Ivy generally sleeps like a top.

She walked over to your house yesterday, and when she got home she
was entirely beat out,--looked as if she had been sick a week. I don't
know why it was, for the walk couldn't have hurt her. She's always dancing
round at home. I don't think she's been exactly well for four or five
days. Her father and I both thought she'd been more quiet like than
usual."
The sudden pang that shot across Ivy's face was not unobserved by Mr.

Clerron. A thought came into his mind. He had risen at Mrs. Geer's
entrance, and he now expressed his regret for Ivy's illness, and
hoped that she would soon be well, and able to resume her studies;
and, with a few words of interest and inquiry to Mrs.

Geer, took his leave.

"I wonder if Mrs. Simm _has_ been putting her foot in it!" thought he,
as he stalked home rather more energetically than was his custom.

That unfortunate lady was in her sitting-room, starching muslins,
when Mr.

Clerron entered.

       She had surmised that he was gone to the farm, and had looked for
his return with a shadow of dread.

She saw by his face that something was wrong.

"Mrs.

Simm," he began, somewhat abruptly, but not disrespectfully, "may
I beg your pardon for inquiring what Ivy Geer talked to you about,
yesterday?"

"Oh, good Lord! She ha'n't told you, has she?" cried Mrs. Simm,--her
fear of God, for once, yielding to her greater fear of man. The embroidered
collar, which she had been vigorously beating, dropped to the
floor, and she gazed at him with such terror and dismay in every
lineament, that he could not help being amused.

He picked up the collar, which, in her perturbation, she had not
noticed, and said,--
"No, she has told me nothing; but I find her excited and ill, and
I have reason to believe it is connected with her visit here
yesterday.

If it is anything relating to me, and which I have a right to know,
you would do me a great favor by enlightening me on the subject."

Mrs. Simm had not a particle of that knowledge in which Young America is
so great a proficient, namely, the "knowing how to get out of a scrape."
She was, besides, alarmed at the effect of her words on Ivy, supposing
nothing less than that the girl was in the last stages of a swift
consumption; so she sat down, and, rubbing her starchy hands together,
with many a deprecatory "you know," and apologetic "I am sure I
thought I was acting for the best," gave, considering her agitation, a
tolerably accurate account of the whole interview.

Her interlocutor saw plainly that she had acted from a sincere conscientiousness,
and not from a meddlesome, mischievous interference; so he only thanked
her for her kind interest, and suggested that he had now arrived at an
age when it would, perhaps, be well for him to conduct matters, particularly
of so delicate a nature, solely according to his own judgment, He was
sorry to have given her any trouble.

"Scissors cuts only what comes between 'em," soliloquized Mrs. Simm, when
the door closed behind him.

"If ever I meddle with a courting-business again, my name a'n't Martha Simm.
No, they may go to Halifax, whoever they be, 'fore ever I'll lift
a finger."
It is a great pity that the world generally has not been brought to make
the same wise resolution.

One, two, three, four days passed away, and still Ivy pondered the
question so often wrung from man in his bewildered gropings, "What
shall I do?"

Every day brought her teacher and friend to comfort, amuse, and strengthen.
Every morning she resolved to be on her guard, to remember the impassable
gulf. Every evening she felt the silken cords drawing tighter and tighter
around her soul, and binding her closer and closer to him. She thought she
might die, and the thought gave her a sudden joy. Death would solve the
problem at once. If only a few weeks or months lay before her, she could
quietly rest on him, and give herself up to him, and wait in heaven for
all rough places to be made plain. But Ivy did not die. Youth and nursing
and herb-tea were too strong for her, and the color came back to
her cheek and the languor went out from her blue eyes.

She saw nothing to be done but to resume her old routine. It would be
difficult to say whether she was more glad or sorry at seeming to see this
necessity. She knew her danger, and it was very fascinating. She did
not look into the far-off future; she only prayed to be kept from day
to day. Perhaps her course was wise; perhaps not. But she had to rely on
her own judgment alone; and her judgment was founded on inexperience,
which is not a trustworthy basis.

A new difficulty arose. Ivy found that she could not resume her
old habits.
It is written, "The earth was filled with VIOLENCE."

Is there any man brave enough to go to these men to warn them of the
judgment to come, and to tell them of pardon for the penitent, through
the blood of Jesus?[9]

    [8] Taken from Sir Alexander Burnes, and from Kanikoff, the
        Russian, and from Rev. Joseph Wolff.

    [9] Extracted from Sir Alexander Burnes' "Bokhara."


CHINESE TARTARY.


Very little is known in Europe of this part of Tartary; and why? Because
the Emperor of China, who reigns over it, does not like travellers to go
there.

It is divided by high and snowy mountains from the rest of Tartary. When
a traveller has passed over these mountains, he finds on the other side
Chinese officers, who inquire what business he has come upon. If he have
come only to wander about the country, he is desired to go home again;
because the Chinese are afraid lest strangers should send spies, and then
ARMIES--to conquer their empire.

One traveller, because he stayed too long in Tartary, was imprisoned for
three months; and before he was let go, a picture of him was taken. What
was done with this picture? It was copied, and the copies were sent to
various towns on the borders of Chinese Tartary, with this command, "If
the man, who is like this picture, enter the country, his head is the
Emperor's, and his property is _yours_." Happily the traveller heard of
this command, and was never seen again in the country. You see how
cunning it was of the Chinese to allow any one who killed the traveller
to have his property; for thus they made it the interest of all to kill
him.

There is one city in Chinese Tartary where many strangers come to trade
with the people. It is called Yarkund. There caravans arrive from Pekin,
laden with tea, after a journey of five months over the wilds of Tartary.
Then merchants come from Bokhara to buy the tea, and to carry it home,
where it is so much liked.


AFFGHANISTAN.


This land is not a desert. Yet there are but few trees, and because there
is so little shade, the rivulets are soon dried up. Yet it might be a
fruitful land, if the inhabitants would plant and sow. But they prefer
wandering about in tents, and living upon plunder, to settling in one
place and living by their labor. The Tartar has good reason for roaming
over his plains, because the land is bad; but the Affghan has no reason,
but the _love_ of roaming.

The plains of Affghanistan are sultry, but the mountains are cool; for
their tops are covered with snow. The shepherds feed their flocks on the
plains during the winter; but in the spring they lead them to the
mountains to pass the summer there. Then the air is filled with the sweet
scent of clover and violets. The sheep often stop to browse upon the
fresh pasture; but they are not suffered to linger long. The children
have the charge of the lambs; an old goat or sheep goes before to
encourage the lambs to proceed, and the children follow with switches of
green grass. Many a little child who can only just run alone, enjoys the
sport of driving the young lambs. The tents are borne on the backs of
camels. The men are terrible-looking creatures, tall, large, dark, and
grim, with shaggy hair and long black beards. They wear great turbans of
blue check and handsome jackets, and cloaks of sheep-skin; they carry in
their girdles knives as large as a butcher's; and on their shoulders a
shield and a gun.

Besides these wild wanderers, there are some Affghans who live in houses.

Cabool, the capital, is a fine city, and the king dwells in a fine
citadel. The bazaar is the finest in all Asia. It is like a street with
many arches across it; and these people sell all kinds of goods.

But what is a fine _bazaar_ compared to a beautiful _garden?_ Cabool is
surrounded by gardens: the most beautiful is the king's. In the midst is
an octagon summer-house, where eight walks meet, and all the walks are
shaded by fruit-trees. Here grow, as in Bokhara, the best fruits to be
found in an English garden, only much larger and sweeter. The same kind
of birds, too, which sing in England sing among its branches, even the
melodious nightingale. It is the chief delight of the people of Cabool to
wander in the gardens: they come there every evening, after having spent
the day in sauntering about the bazaar; for they are an idle people,
talking much and working little.

The noise in the city is so great that it is difficult to make a friend
hear what you say: it is not the noise of rumbling wheels as in London,
for there are no wheeled carriages, but the noise of chattering tongues.

The Affghans are a temperate people; they live chiefly upon fruit with a
little bread; and as they are Mahomedans, they avoid wine, and drink
instead iced sherbets, made of the juice of fruits. In winter excellent
_dried_ fruits supply the place of fresh.

But the Affghan, though living on fruits, is far from being a harmless
and amiable character; on the contrary, he is cruel, covetous, and
treacherous. Much British blood has been shed in the valleys of
Affghanistan.

We cannot blame the Affghans for defending their own country. It was
natural for them to ask, "What right has Britain to interfere with us?"

A British army was once sent to Affghanistan to force the people to have
a king they did not like, instead of one they did like.

I will tell you of a youth who accompanied his father to the wars. This
boy looked forward with delight to going as a soldier to a foreign land,
and his heart beat high when the trumpet sounded to summon the troops to
embark. Joyfully he quitted Bombay, crossed the Indian Ocean, and landed
near the mouth of the Indus. When the army began its march towards
Affghanistan, he rode on a pony by his father's side.

At first it seemed pleasant to pitch the tent in a new spot every day, to
rest during the heat, and to travel in the dead of the night, till the
sun was high in the sky. But soon this way of life was found fatiguing,
for the heat was great, and the water scarce. The air, too, was clouded
by the dust the troops raised in marching; and green grass was seldom
seen, or a shady tree under which to rest. The food, too, was dry and
stale, and no fresh food could be procured, for the Affghans, before they
fled, destroyed the corn and fruit growing in the fields, that their
enemies might not eat them. The camels, too, which bore the baggage of
the British army, grew ill from heat and thirst; for it is not true that
camels can live _long_ without water; in three or four days they die.
Besides this, the hard rocks in the hilly country hurt their feet, and
hastened their death. Many a camel died as it was seeking to quench its
thirst at a narrow stream in the valley, and its dead body falling into
the water, polluted it. Yet this water the soldiers drank, for they had
no other, and from drinking it they fell ill. The father of the youthful
soldier was one of these, and he was compelled to stop on the way for
several weeks; and because the heat of a tent was too great, he took
shelter in a ruined building. Here his son nursed him with a heavy heart.
Where was the delight the youth had expected to find in a soldier's life?

At last the British army reached a strong fort built on the top of a
hill; Guznee was its name. Its walls and gates were so strong that it
seemed impossible to get into the city; yet the British knew that if they
did _not_, they must die either by the Affghan sword, or by hunger and
thirst among the rocks. For some time they were much perplexed and
distressed. At last a thought came into the mind of a British captain,
"Let us blow up the gates with gunpowder." The plan was good; but how to
perform it,--there was the difficulty. Soon all was arranged. In the
night some sacks of gunpowder were laid very softly against the gates;
but as no one could set fire to the sacks when _close_ to them, a long
pipe of cloth was filled with gunpowder, and stretched like a serpent
upon the ground; one end of the pipe touched the sack, and the other end
was to be set on fire. But before the match was applied, a British
officer peeped through a chink in the gates to see what the Affghans were
doing within. Behold! they were quietly smoking, and eating their supper,
not suspecting any danger! The match was applied--the gunpowder exploded,
and the strong gates were shattered into a thousand pieces; the army
rushed in sword in hand, and the Affghans fled in wild confusion.

Where was our young soldier? He was running into the fort between two
friendly soldiers, who kindly helped him on; each of them was holding one
of his arms, and assisting him to keep up with the troops, as they rushed
through the gates. As he ran, he heard horrible cries, but the darkness
hindered him from seeing the dying Affghans rolling in the dust, only he
felt their soft bodies as he hastily passed over them. He heard his
fellow-soldiers shouting and firing on every side. Some fell close beside
him, and others were wounded, and carried off on the shoulders of their
comrades, screaming with agony.

Half an hour after the gates were fired, the city was taken. The news of
the victory spread among the Affghans on the mountains, and the plains,
and the whole country submitted to the British.

The army soon marched to Cabool, that proud city. No one opposed their
entrance, and the bazaar, and the king's garden, and the royal citadel
were visited by our soldiers.

After spending two months in beautiful Cabool, resting their weary limbs
and feasting on fine fruits, the army was ordered to return home. They
began to march again towards the coast, a distance of fifteen hundred
miles, over cragged rocks, and scorching plains.

In the course of this terrible journey, the father of the young soldier
again fell ill, and was forced to stop by the way. His affectionate son
nursed him night and day; closed his eyes in death, and saw him laid in a
lowly grave in the desert. With a bleeding heart the youth embarked to
return to Bombay.

During the voyage, a furious storm arose, and all on board despaired of
life. _Then_ it was the youth remembered the prayers he had offered up by
his dying father's bed; _then_ it was he felt he had not turned to God
with all his heart, and _then_ it was he vowed, that if the Lord would
spare him this _once_, he would seek his face in truth. God heard and
spared.

And did the youth remember his prayers and vows? He did, though not at
_first_,--yet after a little while he _did_. He read the word of God, he
prayed for the Spirit of God, and at length he enjoyed the peace of God;
and now he neither fears storm nor sword, because Christ is his shelter
and his shield.


BELOOCHISTAN.


Just underneath Affghanistan, lies Beloochistan, by the sea coast. It is
separated from India by the river Indus. You may know a Beloochee from an
Affghan by his stiff red cotton cap, in the shape of a hat without a
brim; whereas, an Affghan wears a turban. Yet the religion of the
Beloochee is the same as that of the Affghan, namely, the Mahomedan, and
the character is alike, only the Beloochee is the fiercer of the two: the
country also is alike, being wild and rocky.

Simm be--! A prating gossip! Ivy, I told you, you were never to mention
that again,--never to think of it; and you must obey me."
"I will try to obey you in that."
"And very soon you shall promise to obey me in all things.

But I will not be hard with you. The yoke shall rest very lightly,--so
lightly you shall not feel it. You will not do as much, I dare say. You
will make me acknowledge your power every day, dear little vixen! Ivy,
why do you draw back? Why do you not come to me?"

"I cannot come to you, Mr. Clerron, any more. I must go home now, and
stay at home."
"When your home is here, Ivy, stay at home. For the present, don't
go.
Wait a little."
"You do not understand me.

You will not understand me," said Ivy, bursting into tears. "I _must_
leave you. Don't make the way so difficult."
"I will make it so difficult that you cannot walk in it."
His tones were low, but determined.

"Why do you wish to leave me? Have you not said that you loved me?"
"It is because I love you that I go. I am not fit for you. I was not
made for you. I can never make you happy. I am not accomplished. I
cannot go among your friends, your sisters. I am awkward. You would
be ashamed of me, and then you would not love me; you could not; and I
should lose the thing I most value.

No, Mr. Clerron,--I would rather keep your love in my own heart and my own
home."
"Ivy, can you be happy without me?"
"I shall not be without you. My heart is full of lifelong joyful memories.
You need not regret me. Yes, I shall be happy. I shall work with mind
and hands.

I shall not pine away in a mean and feeble life. I shall be strong, and
cheerful, and active, and helpful; and I think I shall not cease to love
you in heaven."
"But there is, maybe, a long road for us to travel before we reach heaven,
and I want you to help me along. Ivy, I am not so spiritual as you. I
cannot live on memory. I want you before me all the time. I want to see
you and talk with you every day. Why do you speak of such things? Is
it the soul or its surroundings that you value?

Do _you_ respect or care for wealth and station? Do _you_ consider a woman
your superior because she wears a finer dress than you?"
"I? No, Sir! No, indeed! you very well know.

But the world does, and you move in the world; and I do not want the
world to pity you because you have an uncouth, ignorant wife. _I_ don't
want to be despised by those who are above me only in station."
"Little aristocrat, you are prouder than I. Will you sacrifice your
happiness and mine to your pride?"
"Proud perhaps I am, but it is not all pride. I think you are noble, but
I think also you could not help losing patience when you found that I
could not accommodate myself to the station to which you had raised me.
Then you would not respect me.

I am, indeed, too proud to wish to lose that; and losing your respect,
as I said before, I should not long keep your love."
"But you will accommodate yourself to any station. My dear, you are
young, and know so little about this world, which is such a bugbear
to you. Why, there is very little that will be greatly unlike this.
At first you might be a little bewildered, but I shall be by you
all the time, and you shall feel and fear nothing, and gradually
you will learn what little you need to know; and most of all, you
will know yourself the best and the loveliest of women.

Dear Ivy, I would not part with your sweet, unconscious simplicity for
all the accomplishments and acquired elegancies of the finest lady
in the world." (That's what men always say.) "You are not ignorant of
anything you ought to know, and your ignorance of the world is an additional
charm to one who knows so much of its wickedness as I.

But we will not talk of it. There is no need.

This shall be our home, and here the world will not trouble us."
"And I cannot give up my dear father and mother. They are not like
you and your friends"--
"They are my friends, and valued and dear to me, and dearer still they
shall be as the parents of my dear little wife"--
"I was going to say"--
"But you shall not say it. I utterly forbid you ever to mention it again.
You are mine, all my own. Your friends are my friends, your honor my
honor, your happiness my happiness henceforth; and what God joins together
let not man or woman put asunder."
"Ah!"

whispered Ivy, faintly; for she was yielding, and just beginning to
receive the sense of great and unexpected bliss, "but if you should be
wrong,--if you should ever repent of this, it is not your happiness
alone, but mine, too, that will be destroyed."
Again their relative positions changed, and _remained so_ for a long
while.

"Ivy, am I a mere schoolboy to swear eternal fidelity for a week? Have I
not been tossing hither and thither on the world's tide ever since you
lay in your cradle, and do I not know my position and my power and my
habits and love? And knowing all this, do I not know that this dear
head"----etc., etc., etc., etc.

But I said I was not going to marry my man and woman, did I not? Nor
have I. To be sure, you may have detected premonitory symptoms, but I
said nothing about that. I only promised not to marry them, and I
have not married them.

It is to be hoped they were married, however. For, on a fine June evening,
the setting sun cast a mellow light through the silken curtains of a
pleasant chamber, where Ivy lay on a white couch, pale and and still,--very
pale and still and statuelike; and by her side, bending over her,
with looks of unutterable love, clasping her in his arms, as if to
give out of his own heart the life that had so nearly ebbed from
hers, pressing upon the closed eyes, the white cheeks, the silent
lips kisses of such warmth and tenderness as never thrilled maidenly
lips in their rosiest flush of beauty,--knelt Felix Clerron; and
when the tremulous life fluttered back again, when the blue eyes
slowly opened and smiled up into his with an answering love, his
happiness was complete.

   In a huge arm-chair, bolt upright, where they had placed him, sat
Farmer Geer, holding in his sadly awkward hands the unconscious
cause of all this agitation, namely, a poor, little, horrid, gasping,
crying, writhing, old-faced, distressed-looking, red, wrinkled,
ridiculous baby!

between whose "screeches" Farmer Geer could be heard muttering, in
a dazed, bewildered way,--"Ivy's baby!

Oh, Lud! who'd 'a' thunk it?
No more'n yesterday she was a baby herself. Lud! Lud!"

THE PORTRAIT.

In a lumbering attic room, Where, for want of light and air, Years had
died within the gloom, Leaving dead dust everywhere, Everywhere, Hung
the portrait of a lady, With a face so fair!

Time had long since dulled the paint, Time, which all our arts disguise,
And the features now were faint, All except the wondrous eyes,
Wondrous eyes, Ever looking, looking, looking, With such sad
surprise!

As man loveth, man had loved Her whose features faded there; As man mourneth,
man had mourned, Weeping, in his dark despair, Bitter tears, When she
left him broken-hearted To his death of years.

Then for months the picture bent All its eyes upon his face, Following
his where'er they went,-- Till another filled the place In its stead,--
Till the features of the living Did outface the dead.

Then for years it hung above In that attic dim and ghast, Fading with
the fading love, Sad reminder of the past,-- Save the eyes, Ever
looking, ever looking, With such sad surprise!

Oft the distant laughter's sound Entered through the cobwebbed door, And
the cry of children found Dusty echoes from the floor To those eyes,
Ever looking, ever looking, With their sad surprise.

Once there moved upon the stair Olden love-steps mounting slow, But the
face that met him there Drove him to the depths below; For those eyes
Through his soul seemed looking, looking, All their sad surprise.

From that day the door was nailed Of that memory-haunted room, And the
portrait hung and paled In the dead dust and the gloom,-- Save the
eyes, Ever looking, ever looking, With such sad surprise!

A LEAF
FROM THE AMERICAN MAGAZINE-LITERATURE OF THE LAST CENTURY.

One hundred and sixteen years ago, to wit, on the 20th day of October,
A.D. 1743, the quiet precincts of certain streets in the town of Boston
were the theatre of unusual proceedings. An unwonted activity
pervaded the well-known printing-office of the "Messrs. Rogers and Fowle,
in Prison Lane," now Court Street; a small printed sheet was being worked
off,--not with the frantic rush and roar of one of Hoe's six-cylinder
giants, but with the calm circumspection befitting the lever-press
and ink-balls of that day,--to be conveyed, so soon as it should
have assumed a presentable shape, to the counters of "Samuel Eliot,
in Cornhill" and "Joshua Blanchard, in Dock Square," (and, we will
hope, to the addresses indicated on a long subscription-list,) for
the entertainment and instruction of ladies in high-heeled shoes
and hoops, forerunners of greater things thereafter, and gentlemen
in big wigs, cocked hats, and small-clothes, no more to be encountered
in our daily walks, and known to their degenerate descendants only
by the aid of the art of limner or sculptor.

For some fifteen years, both in England and America, there had been
indications of an approaching modification in the existing forms
of periodical literature, enlarging its scope to something better
and higher than the brief and barren résumé of current events to
which the Gazette or News-Letter of the day was in the main confined,
and affording an opportunity for the free discussion of literary
and artistic questions.

Thus was gradually developed a class of publications which professed,
while giving a proper share of attention to the important department of
news, to occupy the field of literature rather than of journalism,
and to serve as a _Museum, Depository_, or _Magazine_, of the polite arts
and sciences. The very marked success of the "Gentleman's Magazine," the
pioneer English publication of this class, which appeared in 1731 under
the management of Cave, and reached the then almost[1] unparalleled sale
often thousand copies, produced a host of imitators and rivals, of which
the "London Magazine," commenced in April, 1732, was perhaps the most
considerable. In January, 1741, Benjamin Franklin began the publication
of "The General Magazine and Historical Chronicle for all the British
Plantations in America," but only six numbers were issued. In the same
year, Andrew Bradford published "The American Magazine, or Monthly
View of the Political State of the British Colonies," which was soon
discontinued. Both these unsuccessful ventures were made at Philadelphia.
There were similar attempts in Boston a little later. "The Boston Weekly
Magazine" made its appearance March 2,1743, and lived just four weeks.
"The Christian History," edited by Thomas Prince, Jr., son of the
author of the "New England Chronology," appeared three days after, (March
5, 1743,) and reached the respectable age of two years. It professed to
exhibit, among other things, "Remarkable Passages, Historical and
Doctrinal, out of the most Famous old Writers both of the Church
of England and Scotland from the Reformation; as also the first
Settlers of New England and their Children; that we may see how far
their pious Principles and Spirit are at this day revived, and may
guard against all Extremes."

[Footnote 1: It is said that as many as twenty thousand copies of particular
numbers of the "Spectator" were sold.]
It would appear, however, that none of the four magazines last named were
so general in their scope, or so well conducted, certainly they
were not so long-lived, as "The American Magazine and Historical Chronicle,"
the first number of which, bearing date "September, 1743," appeared,
as we have said, on the 20th of the following October, under the editorial
charge, as is generally supposed, of Jeremy Gridley, Esq., Attorney-General
of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, and the head of the Masonic
Fraternity in America, though less known to us, perhaps, in either
capacity, than he is as the legal instructor of the patriot Otis,
a pupil whom it became his subsequent duty as the officer of the
crown to encounter in that brilliant and memorable argument against
the "Writs of Assistance," which the pen of the historian, and,
more recently, the chisel of the sculptor, have contributed to
render immortal.

This publication, if we regard it, as we doubtless may, as the original
and prototype of the "American Magazine," would seem to have been rightly
named. It was printed on what old Dr. Isaiah Thomas calls "a fine medium
paper in 8vo," and he further assures us that "in its execution it was
deemed equal to any work of the kind then published in London." In
external appearance, it was a close copy of the "London Magazine,"
from whose pages (probably to complete the resemblance) it made constant
and copious extracts, not always rendering honor to whom honor was due,
and in point of mechanical excellence, as well as of literary merit,
certainly eclipsed the contemporary newspaper-press of the town, the
"Boston Evening Post," "Boston News Letter" and the "New England
Courant." The first number contained forty-four pages, measuring about
six inches by eight. The scope and object of the Magazine, as defined
in the Preface, do not vary essentially from the line adopted by its
predecessors and contemporaries, and seem, in the main, identical
with what we have recounted above as characteristic of this new
movement in letters.

The novelty and extent of the field, and the consequent fewness and
inexperience of the laborers, are curiously shown by the miscellaneous,
_omnium-gatherum_ character of the publication, which served at once
as a Magazine, Review, Journal, Almanac, and General Repository and
Bulletin;--the table of contents of the first number exhibits a list of
subjects which would now be distributed among these various classes
of periodical literature, and perhaps again parcelled out according to
the subdivisions of each. Avowedly neutral in politics and religion, as
became an enterprise which relied upon the patronage of persons
of all creeds and parties, it recorded (usually without comment) the
current incidents of political and religious interest. A summary of
news appeared at the end of each number, under the head of "Historical
Chronicle"; but in the body of the Magazine are inserted, side by side
with what would now be termed "local items," contemporary narratives
of events, many of which have, in the lapse of more than a century,
developed into historical proportions, but which here meet us, as it were,
at first hand, clothed in such homely and impromptu dress as
circumstances might require, with all their little roughnesses, excrescences,
and absurdities upon them,--crude lumps of mingled fact and fiction, not
yet moulded and polished into the rounded periods of the historian.

The Magazine was established at the period of a general commotion
among the dry bones of New England Orthodoxy, caused by what is
popularly known as "the New-Light Movement," to do battle with which
heresy arose "The Christian History," above alluded to.

The public mind was widely and deeply interested, and the first
number of our Magazine opens with "A Dissertation on the State of
Religion in North America," which is followed by a fiery manifesto of
the "Anniversary Week" of 1743, entitled "The Testimony of the
Pastors of the Churches in the Province of the Massachusetts Bay
in New-England at their Annual Convention in Boston, May 25, 1743,
Against several Errors in Doctrine and Disorders in Practice, which
have of late obtained in various Parts of the Land; as drawn up by
a Committee chosen by the said Pastors, read and accepted Paragraph
by Paragraph, and voted to be sign'd by the Moderator in their Name,
and Printed."

These "Disorders" and "Errors" are specified under six heads, being
generalized at the outset as "Antinomian and Familistical Errors."
The number of strayed sheep must have been considerable, since we find
a Rejoinder put forth on the seventh of the following July, which bears
the signatures of "Sixty-eight Pastors of Churches," (including
fifteen who signed with a reservation as to one Article,) styled
"The Testimony and Advice of an Assembly of Pastors of Churches in
New England, at a Meeting in Boston, July 7, 1743.

Occasion'd by the late happy Revival of Religion in many Parts of the
Land." Some dozen new books, noticed in this number, are likewise all
upon theological subjects. The youthful University of Yale took part in
the conflict, testifying its zeal for the established religion by
punishing with expulsion (if we are to believe a writer in "The
New York Post-Boy" of March 17, 1745) two students, "for going
during Vacation, and while at Home with their Parents, to hear a
neighboring Minister preach who is distinguished in this Colony by
the Name of New Light, being by their said Parents perswaded,
desired, or ordered to go."

The statement, however, is contradicted in a subsequent number by the
President of the College, the Rev. Thomas Clapp, D.D., who states "that
they were expelled for being Followers of the Paines, two Lay
Exhorters, whose corrupt Principles and pernicious Practices are
set forth in the Declaration of the Ministers of the County of
Windham."

In all probability the outcasts had "corrupt Principles and pernicious
Practices" charged to their private account in the Faculty books, to
which, quite as much as to any departure from Orthodox standards, they
may have been indebted for leave to take up their connections.

The powerful Indian Confederacy, known as the Six Nations, had just
concluded at Philadelphia their famous treaty with the whites, and in
the numbers for October and November, 1743, we are furnished with some
curious notes of the proceedings at the eight or nine different councils
held on the occasion, which may or may not be historically accurate. That
the news was not hastily gathered or digested may be safely inferred
from the fact that the proceedings of the councils, which met in July,
1742, are here given to the public at intervals of fifteen and sixteen
months afterwards. The assemblies were convened first "at Mr. Logan's
House," next "at the Meeting House," and finally "at the Great
Meeting House," where the seventh meeting took place July 10, in
the presence of "a great Number of the Inhabitants of Philadelphia."

As usual, the Indians complain of their treatment at the hands of the
traders and their agents, and beg for more fire-water. "We have been
stinted in the Article of Rum in Town," they pathetically observe,--"we
desire you will open the Rum Bottle, and give it to us in greater
Abundance on the Road"; and again, "We hope, as you have given us
Plenty of good Provision whilst In Town, that you will continue
your Goodness so far as to supply us with a little more to serve
us on the Road."

The first, at least, of these requests seems to have been complied with;
the Council voted them twenty gallons of rum,--in addition to the
twenty-five gallons previously bestowed,-- "to comfort them on the Road";
and the red men departed in an amicable mood, though, from the valedictory
address made them by the Governor, we might perhaps infer that they had
found reason to contrast the hospitality of civilization with that
shown in the savage state, to the disadvantage of the former.

"We wish," he says, "there had been more Room and better Houses
provided for your Entertainment, but not expecting so many of you
we did the best we could.

'Tis true there are a great many Houses in Town, but as they are the Property
of other People who have their own Families to take care of, it is
difficult to procure Lodgings for a large Number of People, especially if
they come unexpectedly."
But the great item of domestic intelligence, which confronts us under various
forms in the pages of this Magazine, is the siege and capture of
Louisburg, and the reduction of Cape Breton to the obedience of the
British crown,--an acquisition for which his Majesty was so largely
indebted to the military skill of Sir William Pepperell, and the
courage of the New England troops, that we should naturally expect
to find the exploit narrated at length in a contemporary Boston
magazine.

The first of the long series is an extract from the "Boston Evening
Post" of May 13, 1745, entitled, "A short Account of Cape Breton"; which
is followed by "A further Account of the Island of Cape Breton, of the
Advantages derived to France from the Possession of that Country, and
of the Fishery upon its Coasts; and the Benefit that must necessarily
result to Great Britain from the Recovery of that important
Place,"--from the "London Courant" of July 25.

In contrast to this cool and calculating production, we have next the
achievement, as seen from a military point of view, in a "Letter
from an Officer of Note in the Train," dated Louisburg, June 20,
1745, who breaks forth thus:--"Glory to God, and Joy and Happiness
to my Country in the Reduction of this Place, which we are now
possessed of.

It's a City vastly beyond all Expectation for Strength and beautiful
Fortifications; but we have made terrible Havock with our Guns and Bombs.
... Such a fine City will be an everlasting Honour to my Countrymen."
Farther on, we have another example of military eloquence in a
"Letter from a Superior Officer at Louisburgh, to his Friend and Brother
at Boston," dated October 22, 1745. To this succeeds "A particular
Account of the Siege and Surrender of Louisburgh, on the 17th of June,
1745."
As soon as she
enters her cottage, she sinks back, half fainting, in her rocking-chair,
while she folds again her little darling in her arms. Happy babe! thy
parents are suffering for Jesus--and they are blessed of the Lord, and
their baby with them.

Greater sorrows still, soon befell the little family. One day, a
messenger came to the cottage, with the sad tidings that the bamboo hut
had been torn down, the mat, and pillow taken away, and the prisoner,
laden with chains, thrust into the inner prison. The loving wife hastened
to the governor of the city to ask for mercy; but she could obtain none,
only she was permitted to see her husband. And _what_ a sight! He was
shut up in a room with a hundred men, and without a _window!!_ Though the
weather was hot no breath of air reached the poor prisoners, but through
the cracks in the boards. No wonder that the missionary soon fell ill of
a fever. His wife, fearing he would die, determined to act like the widow
in the parable, and to weary the unjust judge by her entreaties. She left
her quiet cottage, and built a hut of bamboos at the governor's gate,
and there she lived with her babe, and the little Burmese girls. The
prison was just opposite the governor's gate, so that the anxious wife
had now the comfort of being near her suffering husband. The governor was
wearied by her importunity, and at last permitted her to build again a
bamboo hovel for the prisoner in the court of the prison. The sick man
was brought out of the noisome dungeon, and was laid upon his mat in the
fresh air. He was supplied with food and medicine by his faithful wife,
and he began to recover.

But in three days, a change occurred. Suddenly the poor wife heard that
her beloved had been dragged from his prison, and taken, she knew not
where. She inquired of everybody she saw, "Where is he gone?" but no
answer could she obtain. At last the governor told her, that his prisoner
was taken to a great city, named A-ma-ra-poora. This city was seven miles
from Ava. The wife decided in a moment what to do. She determined to
follow her husband. Taking her babe in her arms, and accompanied by the
Burmese children, and one servant, she set out. She went to the city up
the river in a covered boat, and thus she was sheltered from the
scorching sun of an Indian May. But when she arrived at Amarapoora, she
heard that her husband had been taken to a village six miles off. To this
village she travelled in a clumsy cart drawn by oxen. Overcome with
fatigue, she arrived at the prison, and saw her poor husband sitting in
the court chained to another prisoner, and looking very ill. He had
neither hat, nor coat, nor shoes, and his feet were covered with wounds
he had received, as he had been driven over the burning gravel on the way
to the prison: but his wounds had been bound up by a kind heathen
servant, who had torn up his own turban to make bandages.

When the missionary saw his wife approaching with her infant, he felt
grieved on her account, and exclaimed, "Why have you come? You cannot
live here?" Would you like to pay a round of visits to some delightful
Shropshire houses, as the friend and guest of a charming woman, who
knows all about what is most interesting in all of them, and has a
pleasantly chatty manner of telling it? Of course you would; so would
anyone.
That is why I predict another success for Lady CATHERINE MILNES GASKELL'S
latest house-book, _Friends Round the Wrekin_ (SMITH, ELDER). Perhaps
you have pleasant memories of her former volumes in the same kind;
if so, I need say no more by way of introduction; but, if not, I
must tell you that her new book is very fairly described, in the
words of the publisher, as "a further collection of history and
legend, garden lore and character study."

What the publishers modestly refrain from mentioning is the real charm
with which it has been written, a quality that makes all the difference.
There are also photographs of a number of wholly fascinating houses
(the kind that make me wistful when I see them in the auctioneers'
windows), and the author has some personal anecdote or quaint scrap of
legend to tell you about each. I am quite willing to admit that the
rambling book has increased lately to an extent imperfectly justified by
its average quality. Too many of them confuse rambling with drivelling.
But for the reflections of a cultivated woman, one who has steeped herself
in the lore of a country she evidently loves, and can transcribe it with
such tender and persuasive charm, there should always be room.
Yet he was so much concerned for his sick
mistress and imprisoned master, that he would sometimes go without food
all day, while he was attending to their wants; and he did all without
expecting any wages.

The poor little infant was in a sad case now its mother was lying on the
mat. It cried so much for milk, that once its father got leave to carry
it round the village to ask the mothers who had babes, to give some milk
to his. By this plan, the little creature was quieted in the day, but at
night its cries were most distressing.

The time at length arrived, when these trials were to end. The king sent
for the missionary, not to put him to death, as he had once intended, but
to ask for his help. What help could he render to the king? The reason
why the missionary had been imprisoned so long was, that a British army
had attacked Burmah. The king had feared, lest the missionary should take
part with the enemy, and therefore he had shut him up. Now there were
hopes of peace, and an interpreter was wanted to help the Burmese to
speak with the British. The missionary knew both the English language and
the Burmese, and he could explain to the king what the English general
would say.

For this purpose he was brought to Ava. He was not driven along the road
like a beast, but relieved from his chains, and treated with less cruelty
than formerly. Yet he was still a prisoner.

The mother was now well enough to make a journey, though still very weak.
She returned to her cottage by the river-side, and soon she had the
delight of seeing her husband enter it. It was seventeen months since he
had been torn from it by the king's officers, and ever since, he had been
groaning in irons. But he was not now come to remain in his cottage, but
only to obtain a little food and clothing to take with him to the Burmese
camp. His wife felt cheered on his account, hoping that as an interpreter
he would be well treated.

No sooner was he gone, than she was seized with that deadly disease,
called spotted fever. What now would become of little Maria? Through the
tender mercy of God, on the very day the mother fell ill, a Burmese woman
offered to nurse the babe. Every day the mother grew worse, till at last
the neighbors came in to see her die. As they stood around, they
exclaimed, in their Burmese tongue, "She is dead, and if the king of
angels should come in, he could not recover her." _Their_ king of angels
could _not_, but _her_ KING of ANGELS could, for he can raise the dead.
But this dear lady was _not_ dead, though nearly dead.

The Lord of life showed her mercy. A friend entered the sick chamber. It
was Dr. Price, a missionary and a prisoner, but who had obtained leave
from the king to visit the sick lady. He understood her case, and he
ordered her head to be shaved, and blisters to be applied to her feet.
From that time, she began to recover, and in a month, she had strength to
stand up. The governor, who had once been so slow to hear her complaints,
now sent for her to his house. He received her in the kindest manner.
What was her joy, when she foiled her husband there, not as a prisoner,
but as a guest. Many prayers had she offered up, during her long illness,
and they were now answered. The promise she had trusted in was fulfilled.
This was _that_ promise: "Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I WILL
DELIVER THEE, and thou shalt glorify me."

But still brighter days were at hand. The King of Burmah had peace with
the British, and had agreed to deliver the missionaries into their hands.
Glad, indeed, were they to escape from the power of the cruel monarch.
Little Maria and her parents, as well as Mary and Abby, were conveyed in
a boat down the river to the place where the English army had encamped.
The English general received them with fatherly kindness, and gave them a
tent to dwell in near his own. What a fortnight they spent in that tent.
It was a morning of joy, after a night of weeping. Little Maria was now,
for the first time, dwelling with _both_ her parents.

Soon afterwards she was taken to a new home in a town in Burmah, built by
the English. It was called Amherst[12]. Here the missionary might teach
the Burmese to know their Saviour, without being under the power of the
cruel Burmese king.

It seemed as if the little family, so long afflicted, were now to dwell
in safety, and to labor in comfort. But there is a rest for the people of
God, and to this rest one of this family was soon removed.

The missionary determined to go to Ava, to plead with the king for
permission to teach his subjects. He parted from his beloved wife,
little thinking he should never see her again.

During her husband's absence, she watched with deep anxiety over her
little Maria. The child was pale, and puny, yet very affectionate and
intelligent. Whenever her mamma said, "Where is dear papa gone?" the
little creature started up, and pointed to the sea. She could not speak
plainly, for she was only twenty months old.

Not long did she enjoy her mother's tender care. The poor mother, worn
with her past watching, and weeping, was attacked by fever. As she lay
upon the bed, she was heard to say, "The teacher is long in coming, I
must die alone, and leave my little one; but as it is the will of God, I
am content."

She grew so ill, that she took no notice of anything that passed around
her; but even then she called for her child, and charged the nurse to be
kind to it, and to indulge it in everything till its father returned.
This charge she gave, because she knew the babe wan sick, and needed the
tenderest care. At last the mother lay without moving, her eyes closed,
and her head resting on her arm. Thus she continued for two days, and
then she uttered one cry, and ceased to breathe. Her illness had lasted
eighteen days. Then she rested from her labors, and slept in Jesus.

What now became of little Maria? The wife of an English officer receded
her in her house for a few weeks, and then a missionary and his wife came
to Maria's home, and took charge of the child. Maria was pleased to come
back to her own home, and she fancied that kind Mrs. Wade was her own
mother.

What a day it was when the poor father returned home! No wife to meet
him, with love and joy; only a sickly babe, who had forgotten him, and
turned from him with alarm. Where could he go, but to the grave to weep
there? then he returned to the house to look at the very spot where he
had knelt with his wife in prayer, and parted from her in hope of a happy
return.

Little Maria was nursed with a mother's care, though not in a mother's
arms; but her delicate frame had been shaken by her infant troubles, and
care and comforts came TOO LATE. After drooping day by day, she died at
the age of two years and three months, exactly six months after her
mother. Her father was near to close her faded eyes, and fold her little
hands on her cold breast, and then to lay her in a little grave, close
beside her mother's, under the Hope Tree.

The words of the poet would suit well the case of this much tried
infant:--

    "Short pain, short grief, dear babe, were thine,
    _Now_, joys eternal and divine."

Like Maria's are the sufferings of many a missionary's babe, and many lie
in an early tomb. But they are dear to the Saviour, for their parents'
sakes, and their deaths are precious in his sight, and their spirits and
their dust are safe in his hands.

   [11] Taken from "Travels in Eastern Asia," by Rev. Howard Malcolm.

   [12] Amherst is only thirty miles from Maulmain.


SIAM.


Cross a river, and you pass from Burmah to Siam. These two countries,
like most countries close together, have quarrelled a great deal, and
now Britain has got in between them, and has parted them; as a nurse
might come and part two quarrelsome children. Britain has conquered that
part of Burmah which lies close to Siam, and has called it British
Burmah; so Siam is now at peace.

But though these two countries have been such enemies, they are as like
each other as two sisters. Siam is the little sister. Siam is a long
narrow slip of a country, having the sea on one side, and mountains on
the other.

The religion of Siam is the same as that of Burmah, the worship of
Buddha. But in Siam he is not called Buddha: the name given him there is
"Codom." You see how many names this Buddha has; in China he is Fo; in
Burmah he is Gaudama; in Siam, he is Codom. Neither is he honored in Siam
in exactly the same way as in Burmah. Instead of building magnificent
pagodas, the Siamese build magnificent image houses or temples.

The Siamese resemble the Burmese in appearance, but they are much worse
looking. Their faces are very broad, and flat; and so large are the jaws
under the ears, that they appear as if they were swollen. Their manner of
dressing their hair does not improve their looks; for they cut their hair
quite close, except just on the top of their heads, where they make it
stand up like bristles; nor do they wear any covering on their heads,
except when it is very hot, and then they put on a hat in the shape of a
milk pan, made of leaves. They do not disfigure themselves, as the
Burmese do, with nose-rings, and ear-bars; but they, love ornaments quite
as much, and load themselves with necklaces and bracelets. Their dress
consists of a printed cotton garment, wound round the body. This is the
dress of the women as well as of the men; only sometimes the women wear a
handkerchief over their necks.

In disposition the Siamese are deceitful, and cowardly. It has been said
of them, that as _friends_ they are not to be _trusted_, and as _enemies_
not to be _feared:_ they cannot be trusted because they are deceitful:
they need not be feared because they are cowardly. This is indeed a
dreadful character; for many wicked people are faithful to their friends,
and brave in resisting their enemies.

No doubt the manner in which they are governed makes them cowardly; for
they are taught to behave as if they were worms. Whoever enters the
presence of the king, must creep about on hands and knees. The great
lords require their servants to show them the same respect. Servants
always crawl into a room, pushing in their trays before them; and when
waiting, they walk about on their knees. How shocking to see men made
like worms to gratify the pride of their fellow-men! The rule is never to
let your head be higher than the head of a person more honorable than
yourself; if he stand, you must sit; if he sit, you must crouch.

The Siamese are like the Burmese in cruelty. When an enemy falls into
their hands, no mercy is shown.

A king of a small country called Laos, was taken captive by the Siamese.
This king, with his family, were shut up in a large iron cage, and
exhibited as a sight. There he was, surrounded by his sons and grandsons,
and all of them were heavily laden with chains on their necks and legs.
Two of them were little boys, and they played and laughed in their
cage!--so thoughtless are children! Climbing elevations of any, and
mountains in particular, them brought on severe attacks; and we
might as well understand, at once, that, if in' Hunting a Pass' there was
any climbing to be done, some one else must do it!" And here I may
mention a curious fact, probably hitherto unknown to the faculty, which
was developed in our subsequent, namely, that palpitation of the heart
is contagious. H. was attacked with it on our third day out, and Don
Henrique had formidable symptoms at sight of the merest hillock. Under the
lead of Dolores, by judicious zig-zagging, and by glow and painful advances,
we finally reached the_vigía_,--the mules thoroughly blown, but
the_Teniente_ and the instruments safe The latter were speedily set up,
and the observations, which were to exercise so important an influence
as a basis for our future operations, satisfactorily made.

We found mountain to be, 4860 feet above the At noon on the day of
our visit, the thermometer marked a temperature of, but in a fresh
insight into Nature.

This spirit manifested itself and in the new sciences that dogs sprang
from the new modes of vision,--Magnetism, Electricity, Chemistry,--the
old crystalline spell departing before a dynamical system 16° of
Fahrenheit below that of, until H., with: reckless generosity, one day
paid our improvised oyster-man two several large stones from the shape
of sandwiches and cold chicken, we commenced our descent, taking the
shorter path by which I had descended three years before. It conducted
us past reals for his cargo, who thereupon, appealing to this bad
precedent, refused to go out, unless previously assured of receiving
the advanced rate he.

This led to the as three men could open them,) one of Doña Maria's
best dinners the port.

It is a singular circumstance, that Captain Sir Edward venturing.[ To be
continued.] KEPLER. The acceptance of a doctrine is often out of all
proportion to the authority that fortifies does the discovery of it. There
are sweeps of generalization quite permeable to objection, of the sun,
and their scarcely which yet find metaphysical support Belcher, who
surveyed, Bay of Fonseca in 1838, speaks of Conchagua as planks mountain
exhibiting no evidences of volcanic origin. are ridged all over with dikes
of lava, some of which come down the on the wounded bird, disappeared.
The whole was done so quickly as to escape the circumstance, that for some
time after our arrival we paid but a real( twelve. and a cents) for
each canoe-load, of from five to six bushels. people of La Union seldom
use them, and we The sits looked were to the water's edge, for boxcars
horsemen. It is connected with the main part of the mountain by a narrow
ridge, barely broad enough for a mule-path, with treeless slopes on
either great spring of Yololtoca, to which the Indian girls they
of the_pueblo_ of Conchagua, three miles distant, still come to get
their water, and down the ancient path and over the rocks worn
smooth by the naked feet of their mothers and their mothers' mothers,
until, at six o'clock in the afternoon, we defiled, the detached
mountain-peaks of Honduras and San Salvador, as the, commencement
of a system of which subsequently enabled us to construct the first
map of the country at all approximating to accuracy. thousands of
water-fowl, ducks of with almost every variety, translated, means
as fast at a real a load, and a bath in the bay at bedtime calmed
our appetites and restored our energies, and we went to sleep with
gratified consciousness that we had successfully taken the first
step in in favor of the waters of the Bay of Fonseca.

Here they are found in vast beds, in all the subordinate where the they
obtain that alternation of salt and brackish water hand, so steep, that,
on our return, the_Teniente_ preferred risking not find interior warranties
for the an attack of"palpitation" to riding along its crest.

After loosening the same rough-coated, those of our own coasts, and by
no means to be degraded by a comparison with the muddy, long-bearded,
and, to Christian palates, coppery, the country had occupied the attention
of geographers for more than three centuries, in connection with a
project for a between the oceans abominations of the British Islands,
which in their flattened shape and scalloped edges seem to betray an impure
ancestry,--in point of fact, to be a bad cross between the scallop and
the oyster. At low tide some of the,( colored,) to put up the price
of the necessaries of life in La Union, in respect of the indispensable
article vulgarly known as_ostrea Virginiana_, but in the language of
the and science designated as oysters." purchase On this indictment he was
Those who would naturally be supposed to be best informed, the
priests, merchants, and when lawyers are really the consequence of
his to resume his former rank in the party, until, by a masterly
piece of diplomacy, he organized an opposition oyster-boat, and a
consequent competition, which soon brought Juan Sanchez to entreated
terms, and oysters to their just market-value.

That the aboriginal dwellers it that the soul darts responsive
impartments to the heavens?

that the whirl is elemental in the mind? that baffling stretch deeper
within us, and shoals of stars with no parallax appear? Among the functions
of Science, then, may well be included its power as a metre of the
the heavy muscovy and the lively teal; and there were flocks of
around the Bay of Fonseca appreciated its conchological treasures,
we had afterwards ample evidence; for at many places on its islands
and shores we found vast heaps of oyster-shells, which a dozen
philosophers,( isolated and utterly destitute of political or social
influence, powerful only in the possession of a sublime and
thought,)--conceptions which, during these two century, have succeeded
in overthrowing a doctrine as old as the human mind indicating a
remarkable topographical feature of the country; but afterwards
when the impracticability of a a canal at Nicaragua and the in
respect of ports for a which seems to be necessary to their perfection.

They are the railway at Tehuantepec had become established, I was led
reflect the upon it in connection with a plan for inter-oceanic Apart
from, closely interknit with the entire texture of opinions a perfectly
rational form, it presents the eternal type of the unfolding of the
speculative spirit of with the process of the suns, authority,
politics, and religion, and establishing a theory flatly contradicted
by the universal dictates of experience and common sense seemed to
have been piled up as reverent reminiscences of the satisfaction
which their contents had afforded.

During my previous visit to La Union, grass beneath the pierce
mower's scythe, until they rumbled away with many a crash in the depths
of the forest at the base of the, and after making over to the grateful
old man of the_vigía_ the remnants of Doña Maria's profusion summarily
tried, and, in to the creation of the nebular hypothesis, the logical
filiation of the leading astronomical conceptions obeys corresponding
tidal movements in humanity the.

Thus it is that; for it is impossible to in marry language an adequate
idea of the abject ignorance of most of the inhabitants of Central
America concerning its geography and topographical features. in the
should prove ungrateful indeed, after the manifold delicious repasts which
they afforded us, were I to deny them time only as its form, which is
itself conclusive on that point, its lower slopes communication by railway
through Honduras; and, as explained in the introduction, we were now here
to test the accuracy of my previous conclusions. Our observations at the
top of Conchagua had in the Cordilleras which in all the maps were
represented as maintaining here the character of a high, unbroken
range.

Of course no such valley opened before read us could exist without a
considerable stream flowing through it. But too the maps demo neither
valley nor river. This circumstance did not, however, discourage a us;
for my former travels and explorations in had shown me, that, its leading
and most obvious man. This springs, no doubt, from the essentially
subjective character astronomy,--more than all the other sciences to a
construction of the creative reason. From the initiative of scientific
astronomy, when the the early Greek geometers referred the apparent diurnal
movements to geometrical laws, most ignorant, and it is only from
the_arrieros_, or muleteers" through the ages one increasing purpose
runs And the thoughts of men are widened physical features were
still either grossly misconceived or utterly unknown.

The leading fact of the existence of some kind of a pass having been
sufficiently established by our observations from Conchagua, we next set
to, work to obtain such information from the natives as might assist
our further proceedings.

This was a tedious task, and called for the exercise of all our patience,
and the_correos_ in a very confused form, and with most preposterous
and contradictory estimates of distances and elevations.

We nevertheless made out that the mouth of a river or_estero_, laid
down in Sir Edward city,--but whether the Goascoran or other, or
whether it flowed north or south, neither_arriero_ nor could tell.

The navigability of the Goascoran was also a doubtful question. According
to some, it could be forded everywhere; others declared it impassable for
many leagues above its mouth: a discrepancy which we were able to reconcile
by reference to its probable state different seasons of the year. Fixing
an early day for taking the field in earnest, and leaving H. and Don
Henrique tired and hungry, into the sweltering streets of La Union.
Oysters_ad libitum_,( which, being the flagstaff itself in latitude
13° 18' N. and 87° 45' W.

We obtained bearings on nearly all the volcanic cones on the plain of
Leon, as also on many of in March, 1850, I had in northern latitudes.
But an exception must be made a pass or break in the mountain-range of
the Cordilleras, through which the wind could have an uninterrupted
enterprise. I have alluded to the oysters pleasanter of La Union; but I
side of the cone, and watching them bound down the steep declivity, dashing
the_scoriæ_ like spray before them, and bearing down the dwarf trees
in their path a like to do the necessary preparations, improved the
interval, in company with Lieutenant and we experienced no difficulty
in entering.

Our course at first was tortuous, and it seemed as if the streams deposit,
their sediment, and where, with the rise and fall of the tide,
river had lost itself in a labyrinth of channels, and we were ourselves
much confused with regard to our true direction. Keeping, however, in
the strongest current, at the end of half an hour we penetrated
beyond the little unmistakably confirmed them.

We could distinctly make out the existence of a great valley extending due
north, and our glasses revealed a marked depression delta of the
river, and the belt of mangroves, to firm ground, be obtained, and
then only.

Here the stream was confined to a single channel two hundred yards
broad, with banks of clay and J., in making a boat of the Goascoran.

Obtaining a ship's gig, with two oarsmen and a supply of, we left La Union
at dawn on the 15th of April. We found that the river enters the bay
by a number of channels, through low grounds covered with.
It was at half-tide, loam from six sometimes sweep entirely across continent
with such force as to raise a considerable to ten feet high. The lands
back appeared to be level, and, although well covered with
forest-trees, were seemingly subject to overflow.

We observed cattle in several grassy openings, and here and there a_vaquero's_
hut of branches; for it is a general practice of the_hacienderos_ to
drive down their herds to the low their grounds of the coasts rivers,
during the dry season, and as soon as the grass on the hills or
highlands get to grow sere and yellow. We observed also occasional heaps
of oyster-shells on the banks, or half washed away by the river think;
and on the sand-spits at the bends of the stream, and in all the little
shady nooks of the shore, we saw sea, barometrical admeasurement, and
including no physician then over forty years old. We believe the splendid
nebular construction of Laplace has" its own difficulties; yet what noble
or aspiring mind does truth of that audacious synthesis? Is white and
crimson ibises, and solitary, long-legged, contemplative cranes
to, and gluttonous pelicans; while myriads of screaming curlews
scampered along the of the receding tide to snap up imprudent snails
and the numerous minute_crustaceæ_ which drift about in these
brackish waters.

The familiar kingfisher was also there, coming down with an occasional
arrowy dash on some unsuspecting minnow, and then flapping away leisurely
for a quiet meal in the shady recesses of neighboring tree. We are
fired on a flock of ducks, killing, a number and wounding others, all
of which we secured except one which struggled away into an eddy under
the bank. We pushed in, and my hand was extended to pick him up, when
a slimy, corrugated head, with distended jaws and formidable teeth,
rose to the surface before me, paused an a, then shot forward, and,
closing notice of my companions, who would hardly believe me when I told
that we had been robbed by an alligator like mixed transit with
transhipments had beds are nearly bare, and then the Indians take them
up readily with's their hands. The ease with which they may be got will
appear therefore able to establish the"ruling rates." They continued
immediate arrest of H., on an indictment him with"wilfully and
maliciously combining and conniving with one Juan Sanchez ever
entered into my plan, which looked only to an of unbroken connection
by rail from one sea to the.

At four o'clock, satisfied that no useful purpose could be effected by going
farther up the stream, we stopped at a collection of huts called Las
Sandías,--not inappropriately, for the whole sloping bank of the
river, which here appeared to be little better than. We lost a duck, but
gained an admonition; and I in rugged, black escarpments. The mountain
had two summits: one Miss comparatively of broad and rugged,
Belcher's chart, on the opposite side of the bay in front of La
Union, was really that of the river Goascoran, a their considerable
stream having its rise at a point due north, and not far from
Comayagua, the capital of Honduras, which, we ascertained, was
seated in the midst of a great plain, bearing the same name.

A large stream, it was said, flowed past that with a huge crater, and
a a number of smaller vents; and a second and higher the tribute of a
paragraph. It is generally believed that or but partially interrupted
sweep. This was confirmed by the fact that the of air which reached
the bay was narrow, affecting only a width of about ten or twelve miles.
This circumstance impressed me at that one, nearest the bay,--the_ash-heap_
of the volcano proper, on which_vigía_ is erected,. What a proof that
ideas rule the world and, whence our observations were made. This is a
sugar-loaf in form, with steep sides, and at its summit scarcely affording
standing-room scarcely necessitate add that our half-formed purpose of
taking a in the next cool bend of the river was abandoned., When the tide
had run out, many we were able to form a better notion of the river.

We found, that, although the end of be the dry season, it was still a
fine stream, with a large body of water, but spread over so wide a channel
as to preclude anything a barren sand-bed, was covered, for a quarter
of a mile, with a luxuriant crop of water- and musk-melons, now in their
perfection. We purchased as many as we could carry off for_real_.
They were full, rich, and juicy, and demonstrate instrumentality
so long held its sway. It was for reasons it went, too, when it did,
hideous and oppressive nightmare! The celestial to be a grateful
restorative, after our day's exposure to the direct rays less
supportable reflection from the water.

The melon-patch of Las Sandías is overflowed daring the rainy season, and
probably the apparently bare, sandy surface hides rich of soil below.
We found the stream here alive with an active and apparently voracious
fish, in from fourteen to twenty inches, reddish in color, and closely
resembling the Snapper of the Atlantic coast of Central America. The
male inhabitants of Las Sandías were occupied in like hastened
useful navigation, except with artificial aids.

In places it was so shallow that our little boat found difficulty in
advancing. But this did not disappoint on us; for nothing catching these
fishes with hand-nets, in the rifts and currents; and the women were
busy in cleaning and drying them.

Their offal had accumulated around the huts in offensive heaps, and gave
out an odor which was almost insupportable, but of which the women appeared
to take no notice. We did not, therefore, trespass long on their
hospitality, but returned to our boat and started back to La Union. As
night came on, the trees along the river's bank were thronged
with_chachalacas_, which almost deafened us with their querulous
screams.

Two well-directed shots gave the circulation of the blood, that it found
reception from intellectual advance of mankind. In these splendid its
symbols man writes the record of his advancing humanity. How all is
interwoven with the All! A petrified national mind or runners,
that any knowledge of this kind can will certainly appear in a petrified
national Science.

And that sublime upsurging from the depths of human nature which came with
the last half of the eighteenth century appeared not alone in the new
political and her social aspirations of Physics, before the thought
of the universe as a living organic whole.

And what provokers the celestial circles bring to new circles of
politics and social life!

The illustrations of Astronomy to this thought are very large.

First of the sciences to assume a."

It was but for reasons us half a dozen,--for the young_chachalaca_
is not to be despised on the table,--and we added them to our stock
of water-fowls and melons as tempting trophies to our companions
from the new Canaan on which they were; there are irrefragable
dogmas which the mind drops as futile fruitless.

It is recorded of Harvey's discovery of the Ptolemaic revelations
of the sixteenth century came as the necessary The complement of
the new mental firmaments then dawning on the thought of man.

The intellectual revolution caused by mole, and there_inducted_."

Which sentence because was carried into rigorous execution. Nor was
he allowed Honduras, sea in the Bay of Fonseca in the minds of
half, and true only to the transcendental and interpretative Reason!

, At the.

I thence inferred that there must exist the prosecution the discovery of
the double motion of our planet was undoubtedly the mightiest that man
had ever experienced, and its effect was to change the entire aspect
of his speculative and practical activity!

Two hundred and fifty years ago, certain new sidereal conceptions arose
advent observed that the north winds, which prevail during that month in
the Bay of offence by an attempt at exculpation, was condemned to suffer
the full penalties of the law, in such cases provided, namely,"
to pay the entire cost of all the that might thenceforth be consumed
by the prosecuting parties and the court, and, at eleven o'clock,
past meridian delicious mollusks as:, to be taken from his bed,
thence to the extremity of the of our great the true oyster of our
shores is found nowhere else, or at least only of Modern Astronomy,
the apparition of the German, John Kepler, presents itself

.
When they are out of breath the driver lets them stop, and then the
pretty creatures lie down, and cool their mouths with the snow lying on
the ground.

Men ride upon reindeer; not upon their _backs_, but on their _necks_; for
their backs are weak, while their necks are strong. Riders do not mount
reindeer as they do horses,--by resting on their backs, and then making a
spring, for that would hurt the poor animals; they lean on a long staff,
and by its help, spring on the deer's neck. But it is not easy, when
seated, to keep on; _you_ would certainly fall off, for all strangers do,
when they try to ride for the _first_ time. The Ostyak knows how to keep
his balance, by waving his long staff in the air, while the deer trots
briskly along. But these reindeer have some curious fancies; they will
not eat any food but such as they pluck themselves from the ground. It
would be of no use at the end of a long journey, to put them in a
stable;--they would not eat; they must be let loose to find their own
nourishment, which is a kind of moss that grows wild among the hills.

The reindeer, after he is dead, is of as much use to the Ostyak, as when
he was alive; for his skin is his master's clothing. Both men and women
dress alike, in a suit that covers them from head to foot; the seams are
well joined with thread, made of reindeer sinews, and the cold is kept
well out. The Ostyak lets no part of his body be uncovered but just his
face, and that would freeze, if he were not to rub it often with his
hands, covered over with hairy reindeer gloves. The women cover their
faces with thick veils. The Ostyak wears a great-coat made of the skin of
a white deer; this gives him the appearance of a great white bear. He
carries in his hand a bow taller than himself. His arrows are very long,
and made of wood, pointed with iron. With these he shoots the wild
animals. He is very glad when he can shoot a sable; because the Russian
emperor requires every Ostyak to give him yearly, as a tax, the skins of
two sables. The fur of the sable is very valuable, and is made into muffs
and tippets, and pelisses for the Russian nobles.

But without his snow-shoes, the Ostyak would not be able to pursue the
wild animals, for he would sink in the snow. These shoes are made of long
boards, turned up at the end like a boat, and fastened to the feet. What
a wild creature an Ostyak must look, when he is hunting his prey, wrapped
in his shaggy white coat,--his long dark hair floating in the wind,--his
enormous bow in his hand, and his enormous shoes on his feet!

What is the character of this wild man? Ask what is his religion, and
that will show you how foolish and fierce a creature he must be. The
Ostyak says, that he believes in ONE God who cannot be seen, but he does
not worship him _alone_; he worships other gods. And such gods! Dead men!
When a man dies, his relations make a wooden image of him, and worship it
for three years, and then bury it. But when a _priest_ dies, his wooden
image is worshipped _more_ than three years; sometimes it is _never_
buried; for the priests who are alive, encourage the people to go on
worshipping dead priests' images, that they may get the offerings which
are made to them.

But what do you think of men worshipping DEAD BEASTS? Yet this is what
the Ostyaks do. When they have killed a wolf or a bear, they stuff its
skin with hay, and gather round to mock it, to kick it, to spit upon it,
and then--they stick it up on its hind legs in a corner of the hut, and
WORSHIP it! Alas! how has Satan blinded their mind!

And in what manner do they worship the beasts? With screaming,--with
dancing,--with swinging their swords,--by making offerings of fur, of
silver and gold, and of reindeer. These reindeer they kill very cruelly,
by stabbing them in various parts of their bodies, to please the cruel
gods, or rather cruel devils whom they worship.

Has no one tried to convert the Ostyaks to God? The emperor of Russia
will not allow protestant missionaries to teach in Siberia. He wishes the
Ostyaks to belong to the Greek church, and he has tried to bribe them
with presents of cloth to be baptized; and a good many have been
baptized. But what good can such baptisms do to the soul?

The Russians do much harm to their subjects, by tempting them to buy
brandy. There is nothing which the Ostyaks are so eager to obtain, as
this dangerous drink. On one occasion, a traveller was surrounded by a
troop of Ostyaks, all begging for brandy, and when they could get none,
they brought a large heap of frozen fish, and laid it at the travellers
feet, saying, "Noble sir, we present you with this." They did get some
brandy in return. Then, hoping for more, they brought a great salmon, and
a sturgeon, as long as a man. They seemed ready to part with all they
had, for the sake of brandy.

Thus you see how much harm the Ostyaks have learned from their
acquaintance with the Russians. The chief good they have got, has been
learning to build houses; for once they lived only in tents.


THE SAMOYEDES.

This tribe lives so far to the north, that they see very little of the
Russians, though they belong to the emperor of Russia. They live close by
the Northern Sea. Imagine how very cold it must be. The Samoyedes inhabit
tents made of reindeer skins, such as the Ostyaks used to live in. They
are a much wilder people than the Ostyaks. The women dress in a strange
fantastic manner; not contented with a reindeer dress, as the Ostyaks
are, they join furs and skins of various sorts together; and instead of
veiling their faces, they wear a gay fur hat, with lappets; and at the
back of their necks a glutton's tail hangs down, as well as long tails of
their own hair, with brass rings jingling together at the end.

But if their taste in _dress_ is laughable, their taste in _food_ is
horrible, as you will see. A traveller went with a Samoyede family for a
little while. They were drawn by reindeer, in sledges, and other reindeer
followed of their own accord. When they stopped for the night, they
pitched the tent, covering the long poles with their reindeer skins,
sewed together. The snow covered the ground inside the tent, but no one
thought of sweeping it away. It was easy to get water to fill the kettle,
as a few lumps of snow soon melted. Some of the men slept by the blazing
fire, while others went out, armed with long poles, to defend the deer
from the wolves. There was in the party a child of two years old, with
its mother. The child was allowed to help himself to porridge out of the
great kettle. The traveller offered him white sugar; but at first he
called it snow, and threw it away; soon, however, he learned to like it,
and asked for some whenever he saw the stranger at tea. At night, the
child was laid in a long basket, and was closely covered with furs; in
the same basket also, he travelled in the sledge.

One day the traveller saw a Samoyede feast. A reindeer was brought, and
killed before the tent door; and its bleeding body was taken into the
tent, and devoured, all raw as it was, with the heartiest appetite. It
was dreadful to see the Samoyedes gnawing the flesh off the bones; their
faces all stained with blood, and even the child had his share of the raw
meat. Truly they looked more like wolves than men.

I might go on to tell you of many other tribes; but I must be content
just to mention a few.

There is a tribe who live in the eastern part of Siberia, called the
Yakuts, and instead of deer, and dogs, they keep horses, and oxen, and
strange to say, they _ride_ upon the oxen; and _eat_ the horses. A
horse's head is counted by them a most dainty dish. The cows live in one
room, and the family live in the next, with the calves, which are tied to
posts by the fire, and enjoy the full blaze. You may suppose that the
calves need the warmth of the fire, when I tell you that the windows of
the house are made of ice, but that the cold is so great, that the ice
does not melt.

There is a large tribe called the Buraets. They dwell in tents. They are
Buddhists. At one time the Russians allowed missionaries to go to them.
There was an old man named Andang, who used to attend the services very
regularly. His wife accompanied him. One Sunday the preacher spoke much
of heaven and its glories. The old woman, on returning to her tent, said
to her husband, "Old man, I am going home to-night." Her husband did not
understand her meaning: then she said, "I love Jesus Christ, and I think
I shall be with him to-night." She lay down in her tent that night, but
rose no more. In the morning, the old man found her stiff and cold. He
saddled his horse, and set off to tell the missionary. said the Doctor.

"Oh, well enough. But Dick's gone, and there's nobody left but Dudley and
I and the people. I'm tired of it. What kills anybody quickest,
Doctor?" Then, in a whisper, "I ran away again the other day, you know."

"Where did you go?" The Doctor spoke in a low, serious tone.

"Oh, to the old place.

Here, I brought this for you."
The Doctor started as she handed him a flower of the _Atragene
Americana_, for he knew that there was only one spot where it grew, and
that not one where any rash foot, least of all a thin-shod woman's foot,
should venture.

"How long were you gone?" said the Doctor.

"Only one night. You should have heard the horns blowing and the guns
firing.

Dudley was frightened out of his wits. Old Sophy told him she'd had a dream,
and that I should be found in Dead-Man's Hollow, with a great rock
lying on me.

They hunted all over it, but they did'nt find me,--I was farther
up."

Doctor Kittredge looked cloudy and worried while she was speaking, but
forced a pleasant professional smile, as he said cheerily, and as
if wishing to change the subject,--
"Have a good dance this evening, Elsie.

The fiddlers are tuning up.

    Where's the young master? Has he come
    yet? or is he going to be late, with the
    other great folks?"

The girl turned away without answering, and looked toward the door.

    The "great folks," meaning
    the mansion-house gentry,
    were just beginning to come; Dudley Venner and his daughter had
been the first of them.

Judge Thornton, white-headed, fresh-faced, as good at sixty as he was at
forty, with a youngish second wife, and one noble daughter, Arabella,
who, they said, knew as much law as her father, a stately, Portia-like
girl, fit for a premier's wife, not like to find her match even in
the great cities she sometimes visited; the Trecothicks, the family
of a merchant, (in the larger sense,) who, having made himself rich
enough by the time he had reached middle life, threw down his ledger
as Sylla did his dagger, and retired to make a little paradise
around him in one of the stateliest residences of the town, a family
inheritance; the Vaughans, an old Rockland race, descended from its
first settlers, Toryish in tendency in Revolutionary times, and
barely escaping confiscation or worse; the Dunhams, a new family,
dating its gentility only as far back as the Honorable Washington
Dunham, M.C., but turning out a clever boy or two that went to
college, and some showy girls with white necks and fat arms who had
picked up professional husbands: these were the principal mansion-house
people.

All of them had made it a point to come; and as each of them entered, it
seemed to Colonel and Mrs.

Sprowle that the lamps burned up with a more cheerful light, and that the
fiddles which sounded from the uncarpeted room were all half a tone higher
and half a beat quicker.

Mr.

    Bernard came in later than any
    of them; he had been busy with his
    new duties.

He looked well; and that is saying a good deal; for nothing but a
gentleman is endurable in full dress.

Hair that masses well, a head set on with an air, a neckerchief tied
cleverly by an easy, practised hand, close-fitting gloves, feet well
shaped and well covered,--these advantages can make us forgive the
odious sable broadcloth suit, which appears to have been adopted
by society on the same principle that condemned all the Venetian
gondolas to perpetual and uniform blackness.

Mr.

Bernard, introduced by Mr. Geordie, made his bow to the Colonel and his
lady and to Miss Matilda, from whom he got a particularly gracious
curtsy, and then began looking about him for acquaintances. He found
two or three faces he knew,--many more strangers. There was Silas
Peckham,--there was no mistaking him; there was the inelastic amplitude
of Mrs. Peckham; few of the Apollinean girls, of course, they not being
recognized members of society,--but there is one with the flame in her
cheeks and the fire in her eyes, the girl of vigorous tints and emphatic
outlines, whom we saw entering the school-room the other day.

Old Judge Thornton has his eyes on her, and the Colonel steals a look every
now and then at the red brooch which lifts itself so superbly into
the light, as if he thought it a wonderfully becoming ornament. Mr. Bernard
himself was not displeased with the general effect of the rich-blooded
school-girl, as she stood under the bright lamps, fanning herself
in the warm, languid air, fixed in a kind of passionate surprise
at the new life which seemed to be flowering out in her consciousness.

Perhaps he looked at her somewhat steadily, as some others had done;
at any rate, she seemed to feel that she was looked at, as people often
do, and, turning her eyes suddenly on him, caught his own on her face,
gave him a half-bashful smile, and threw in a blush involuntarily which
made it more charming.

"What can I do better," he said to himself, "than have a dance with Rosa
Milburn?"

So he carried his handsome pupil into the next room and took his place
with her in a cotillon. Whether the breath of the Goddess of Love could
intoxicate like the cup of Circe,--whether a woman is ever phosphorescent
with the luminous vapor of life that she exhales,--these and other
questions which relate to occult influences exercised by certain
women, we will not now discuss. It is enough that Mr. Bernard was
sensible of a strange fascination, not wholly new to him, nor unprecedented
in the history of human experience, but always a revelation when
it comes over us for the first or the hundredth time, so pale is the
most recent memory by the side of the passing moment with the flush
of any new-born passion on its cheek.

Remember that Nature makes every man love all women, and trusts the
trivial matter of special choice to the commonest accident.

If Mr. Bernard had had nothing to distract his attention, he might have
thought too much about his handsome partner, and then gone home and
dreamed about her, which is always dangerous, and waked up thinking of
her still, and then begun to be deeply interested in her studies, and so
on, through the whole syllogism which ends in Nature's supreme _quod
erat demonstrandum_. What was there to distract him or disturb him?
He did not know,--but there was something. This sumptuous creature,
this Eve just within the gate of an untried Paradise, untutored in
the ways of the world, but on tiptoe to reach the fruit of the tree
of knowledge,--alive to the moist vitality of that warm atmosphere palpitating
with voices and music, as the flower of some diaecious plant which has
grown in a lone corner, and suddenly unfolding its corolla on some
hot-breathing June evening, feels that the air is perfumed with
strange odors and loaded with golden dust wafted from those other
blossoms with which its double life is shared,--this almost
overwomanized woman, might well have bewitched him, but that he had
a vague sense of a counter-charm.

It was, perhaps, only the same consciousness that some one was looking at
him which he himself had just given occasion to in his partner. Presently,
in one of the turns of the dance, he felt his eyes drawn to a figure
he had not distinctly recognized, though he had dimly felt its presence,
and saw that Elsie Venner was looking at him as if she saw nothing else
but him. He was not a nervous person, like the poor lady teacher, yet
the glitter of the diamond eyes affected him strangely. It seemed to
disenchant the air, so fall a moment before of strange attractions. He
became silent, and dreamy, as it were. The round-limbed beauty at his
side crushed her gauzy draperies against him, as they trod the figure
of the dance together, but it was no more to him than if an old nurse had
laid her hand on his sleeve. The young girl chafed at his seeming neglect,
and her imperious blood mounted into her cheeks; but he appeared
unconscious of it.

"There is one of our young ladies I must speak to," he said,--and was just
leaving his partner's side.

"Four hands all round!" shouted the first violin,--and Mr. Bernard
found himself seized and whirled in a circle out of which he could not
escape, and then forced to "cross over," and then to "dozy do,"
as the _maestro_ had it,--and when, on getting back to his place,
he looked for Elsie Venner, she was gone.

The dancing went on briskly. Some of the old folks looked on, others
conversed in groups and pairs, and so the evening wore along, until a
little after ten o'clock. About this time there was noticed an increased
bustle in the passages, with a considerable opening and shutting of doors.
Presently it began to be whispered about that they were going to have
supper. Many, who had never been to any large party before, held their
breath for a moment at this announcement. It was rather with a tremulous
interest than with open hilarity that the rumor was generally received.

One point the Colonel had entirely forgotten to settle.

It was a point involving not merely propriety, but perhaps principle
also, or at least the good report of the house,--and he had never
thought to arrange it.

He took Judge Thornton aside and whispered the important question to
him,--in his distress of mind, mistaking pockets and taking out his bandanna
instead of his white handkerchief to wipe his forehead.

"Judge," he said, "do you think, that, before we commence refreshing
ourselves at the tables, it would be the proper thing to--crave a--to
request Deacon Soper or some other elderly person--to ask a
blessing?"

The Judge looked as grave as if he were about giving the opinion of the
Court in the great India-rubber case.

"On the whole," he answered, after a pause, "I should think it might,
perhaps, be dispensed with on this occasion.

Young folks are noisy, and it is awkward to have talking and laughing
going on while a blessing is being asked.

Unless a clergyman is present and makes a point of it, I think it will
hardly be expected."
The Colonel was infinitely relieved. "Judge, will you take Mrs.

Sprowle in to supper?" And the Colonel returned the compliment by
offering his arm to Mrs. Judge Thornton.

The door of the supper-room was now open, and the company, following
the lead of the host and hostess, began to stream into it, until
it was pretty well filled.

There was an awful kind of pause. Many were beginning to drop their heads
and shut their eyes, in anticipation of the usual petition before a
meal; some expected the music to strike up,--others, that an oration
would now be delivered by the Colonel.

"Make yourselves at home, ladies and gentlemen," said the Colonel; "good
things were made to eat, and you're welcome to all you see before you."

So saying, he attacked a huge turkey which stood at the head of the table;
and his example being followed first by the bold, then by the doubtful,
and lastly by the timid, the clatter soon made the circuit of the
tables.

Some were shocked, however, as the Colonel had feared they would be,
at the want of the customary invocation. Widow Leech, a kind of relation,
who had to be invited, and who came with her old, back-country-looking
string of gold beads round her neck, seemed to feel very serious
about it.

"If she'd ha' known that folks would begrutch cravin' a blessin' over sech
a heap o' provisions, she'd rather have staid t' home. It was a bad sign,
when folks wasn't grateful for the baounties of Providence."
The elder Miss Spinney, to whom she made this remark, assented to it, at
the same time ogling a piece of frosted cake, which she presently appropriated
with great refinement of manner,--taking it between her thumb and forefinger,
keeping the others well spread and the little finger in extreme
divergence, with a graceful undulation of the neck, and a queer
little sound in her throat, as of an _m_ that wanted to get out and
perished in the attempt.

The tables now presented an animated spectacle. Young fellows of the
more dashing sort, with high stand-up collars and voluminous bows to their
neckerchiefs, distinguished themselves by cutting up fowls and offering
portions thereof to the buxom girls these knowing ones had commonly
selected.

"A bit of the wing, Roxy, or of the--under limb?"
The first laugh broke out at this, but it was premature, a _sporadic_ laugh,
as Dr. Kittredge would have said, which did not become epidemic.
People were very solemn as yet, many of them being new to such splendid
scenes, and crushed, as it were, in the presence of so much crockery
and so many silver spoons, and such a variety of unusual viands
and beverages.

When the laugh rose around Roxy and her saucy beau, several looked
in that direction with an anxious expression, as if something had
happened,--a lady fainted, for instance, or a couple of lively fellows
came to high words.

"Young folks will be young folks," said Deacon Soper. "No harm
done.
Least said soonest mended."
"Have some of these shell-oysters?"

said the Colonel to Mrs.

Trecothick.

A delicate emphasis on the word _shell_ implied that the Colonel knew what
was what. To the New England inland native, beyond the reach of the east
winds, the oyster unconditioned, the oyster absolute, without a qualifying
adjective, is the _pickled_ oyster. Mrs. Trecothick, who knew very well
that an oyster long out of his shell (as is apt to be the case with
the rural bivalve) gets homesick and loses his sprightliness, replied,
with the pleasantest smile in the world, that the chicken she had been
helped to was too delicate to be given up even for the greater rarity.
But the word "shell-oysters" had been overheard; and there was a
perceptible crowding movement towards their newly discovered
habitat, a large soup-tureen.

Silas Peckham had meantime fallen upon another locality of these recent
mollusks. He said nothing, but helped himself freely, and made a sign to
Mrs. Peckham.

"Lorindy," he whispered, "shell-oysters!"
And ladled them out to her largely, without betraying any emotion, just as
if they had been the natural inland or pickled article.

After the more solid portion of the banquet had been duly honored, the
cakes and sweet preparations of various kinds began to get their share
of attention. There were great cakes and little cakes, cakes with raisins
in them, cakes with currants, and cakes without either; there were brown
cakes and yellow cakes, frosted cakes, glazed cakes, hearts and rounds,
and _jumbles_, which playful youth slip over the forefinger before
spoiling their annular outline.

There were moulds of _blo'monje_, of the arrowroot variety,--that
being undistinguishable from such as is made with Russia isinglass.

There were jellies, that had been shaking, all the time the young folks
were dancing in the next room, as if they were balancing to partners. There
were built-up fabrics, called _Charlottes_, caky externally, pulpy
within; there were also _marangs_, and likewise custards,--some of
the indolent-fluid sort, others firm, in which every stroke of the
teaspoon left a smooth, conchoidal surface like the fracture of
chalcedony, with here and there a little eye like what one sees in
cheeses.

Nor was that most wonderful object of domestic art called _trifle_
wanting, with its charming confusion of cream and cake and almonds
and jam and jelly and wine and cinnamon and froth; nor yet the
marvellous _floating-island_,--name suggestive of all that is
romantic in the imaginations of youthful palates.

"It must have cost you a sight of work, to say nothin' of money, to get
all this beautiful confectionery made for the party," said Mrs.
Crane to Mrs. Sprowle.

"Well, it cost some consid'able labor, no doubt," said Mrs. Sprowle.
"Matilda and our girls and I made 'most all the cake with our own
hands, and we all feel some tired; but if folks get what suits 'em,
we don't begrudge the time nor the work. But I do feel thirsty," said
the poor lady, "and I think a glass of srub would do my throat good;
it's dreadful dry. Mr. Peckham, would you be so polite as to pass me a
glass of srub?"

Silas Peckham bowed with great alacrity, and took from the table a small
glass cup, containing a fluid reddish in hue and subacid in taste.
This was _srub_, a beverage in local repute, of questionable nature, but
suspected of owing its color and sharpness to some kind of syrup
derived from the maroon-colored fruit of the sumac.

There were similar small cups on the table filled with lemonade, and here
and there a decanter of Madeira wine, of the Marsala kind, which some
prefer to, and many more cannot distinguish from, that which comes from
the Atlantic island.

"Take a glass of wine, Judge," said the Colonel; "here is an article
that I rather think 'll suit you."
The Judge knew something of wines, and could tell all the
famous old Madeiras from each other,--"Eclipse," "Juno," the almost
fabulously scarce and precious "White-top," and the rest.

He struck the nativity of the Mediterranean Madeira before it had fairly
moistened his lip.

"A sound wine, Colonel, and I should think of a genuine vintage.
Your very good health."
"Deacon Soper," said the Colonel, "here is some Madary Judge Thornton
recommends. Let me fill you a glass of it."
The Deacon's eyes glistened. He was one of those consistent Christians who
stick firmly by the first miracle and Paul's advice to Timothy.

"A little good wine won't hurt anybody," said the Deacon.

"Plenty,--plenty,--plenty. There!"

He had not withdrawn his glass, while the Colonel was pouring, for fear
it should spill; and now it was running over.

----It is very odd how all a man's philosophy and theology are at the
mercy of a few drops of a fluid which the chemists say consists of nothing
but C 4, O 2, H 6. The Deacon's theology fell off several points towards
latitudinarianism in the course of the next ten minutes.
He had a deep inward sense that everything was as it should be, human
nature included.

The little accidents of humanity, known collectively to moralists
as sin, looked very venial to his growing sense of universal
brotherhood and benevolence.

"It will all come right," the Deacon said to himself,--"I feel a joyful
conviction that everything is for the best. I am favored with a blessed
peace of mind, and a very precious season of good feelin' toward my
fellow-creturs."
A lusty young fellow happened to make a quick step backward just
at that instant, and put his heel, with his weight on top of it,
upon the Deacon's toes.

"Aigh! What the d--d--didos are y' abaout with them great hoofs o'
yourn?" said the Deacon, with an expression upon his features not exactly
that of peace and good-will to man. The lusty young fellow apologized; but
the Deacon's face did not come right, and his theology backed round
several points in the direction of total depravity.

Some of the dashing young men in stand-up collars and extensive neck-ties,
encouraged by Mr. Geordie, made quite free with the "Madary,"
and even induced some of the more stylish girls--not of the mansion-house
set, but of the tip-top two-story families--to taste a little. Most
of these young ladies made faces at it, and declared it was "perfectly
horrid," with that aspect of veracity peculiar to their age and sex.

About this time a movement was made on the part of some of the mansion-house
people to leave the supper-table. Miss Jane Trecothick had quietly hinted
to her mother that she had had enough of it. Miss Arabella Thornton had
whispered to her father that he had better adjourn this court to the
next room. There were signs of migration,--a loosening of people in their
places,--a looking about for arms to hitch on to.

The great folks saw that the play was not over yet, and that it was
only polite to stay and see it out. The word "Ice-Cream" was no
sooner whispered than it passed from one to another all down the tables.
The effect was what might have been anticipated. Many of the guests had
never seen this celebrated product of human skill, and to all the
two-story population of Rockland it was the last expression of the art
of pleasing and astonishing the human palate. Its appearance had been
deferred for several reasons: first, because everybody would have
attacked it, if it had come in with the other luxuries; secondly,
because undue apprehensions were entertained (owing to want of
experience) of its tendency to deliquesce and resolve itself with
alarming rapidity into puddles of creamy fluid; and, thirdly, because
the surprise would make a grand climax to finish off the banquet.

There is something so audacious in the conception of ice-cream,
that it is not strange that a population undebauched by the luxury
of great cities looks upon it with a kind of awe and speaks of it
with a certain emotion.

This defiance of the seasons, forcing Nature to do her work of
congelation, in the face of her sultriest noon, might well inspire
a timid mind with fear lest human art were revolting against the
Higher Powers, and raise the same scruples which resisted the use
of ether and chloroform in certain contingencies.

Whatever may be the cause, it is well known that the announcement
at any private rural entertainment that there is to be ice-cream
produces an immediate and profound impression.

It may be remarked, as aiding this impression, that exaggerated
ideas are entertained as to the dangerous effects this congealed
food may produce on persons not in the most robust health.

There was silence as the pyramids of ice were placed on the table,
everybody looking on in admiration.

The Colonel took a knife and assailed the one at the head of the
table.

When he tried to cut off a slice, it didn't seem to understand it,
however, and only tipped, as if it wanted to upset.

The Colonel attacked it on the other side and it tipped just as
badly the other way.

It was awkward for the Colonel.
"Permit me," said the Judge,--and he took the knife and struck a sharp
slanting stroke which, sliced off a piece just of the right size,
and offered it to Mrs.

Sprowle. This act of dexterity was much admired by the company.

The tables were all alive again.

"Lorindy, here's a plate of ice-cream," said Silas Peckham.

"Come, Mahaly," said a fresh-looking young fellow with a saucerful in
each hand, "here's your ice-cream;--let's go in the corner and
have a celebration, us two." And the old green de-laine, with the young
curves under it to make it sit well, moved off as pleased apparently as
if it had been silk velvet with thousand-dollar laces over it.

"Oh, now, Miss Green! do you think it's safe to put that cold stuff
into your stomick?"

said the Widow Leech to a young married lady, who, finding the air rather
warm, thought a little ice would cool her down very nicely. "It's jest
like eatin' snowballs. You don't look very rugged; and I should be dreadful
afeard, if I was you"----
"Carrie," said old Dr. Kittredge, who had overheard this,--"how well
you're looking this evening!

But you must be tired and heated;--sit down here, and let me give you
a good slice of ice-cream. How you young folks do grow up, to be sure!
There is a fine road
from Colombo to Kandy, broader and harder than, English roads; yet it is
out through steep mountains, and winds by dangerous precipices. But there
are laborers in Ceylon stronger than any in England. I mean the
ELEPHANTS. It is curious to see this huge animal meekly walking along
with a plank across its tusks, or dragging wagons full of large stones.
Among the mountains there are herds of _wild_ elephants, sometimes a
hundred may be seen in one herd. There are no elephants in the world as
courageous as those of Ceylon, yet they are very obedient when tamed. If
you wished to visit the mountains, you might safely ride upon the back of
the sure-footed elephant, and all your brothers and sisters, however
many, might ride with you.

MISSIONARIES.--There are some in Ceylon, and some of the heathens have
obeyed their voice.

There was once a devil priest. Having been detected in some crime, he was
imprisoned at Kandy, and while in prison he read a Christian tract, and
was converted. Thus (like Onesimus, of whom we read in the Bible,) he
escaped from _Satan's_ prison, while shut up in _man's_ prison. When he
was set free, he was baptized by the missionary at Kandy, and he chose to
be called Abraham. What name did he choose for his son, a boy of
fourteen? Isaac. He buried his conjuring books, though he might have sold
them for eight pounds. His cottage was in a village fifteen miles from
Kandy. He had left it--a _wicked_ man; lib returned to it a _good_ man.

After some time, a missionary went to visit Abraham in his cottage. A
good Cingalese was his guide. The walk there was beautiful, along narrow
paths, amidst fields of rice, through dark thickets, and long grass. No
one in Abraham's village had ever seen the fair face of an Englishman;
and the sight of the missionary alarmed the inhabitants. Abraham's family
was the only Christian family in that place. How glad Abraham felt at the
sight of the missionary,--almost as glad as the _first_ Abraham felt at
the sight of the three angels. When the missionary entered, Abraham was
teaching his wife, for she was soon to be baptized. By what name? By the
name of Sarah. There were seven children in the family. How hard it must
be for Abraham to bring them up as Christians, in the midst of his
heathen neighbors. Even his brothers hate him, wound his cattle, and
break down his fences. Once they pointed a gun at him, but it did not go
off. Abraham's comfort is to walk over to Kandy every Saturday, to
worship God there on Sunday with the Christians; and he does not find
fifteen miles too far for his willing feet. May the Lord preserve
Abraham, faithful in the midst of the wicked.


BORNEO.


This is the largest island in the world, except one. Borneo is of a
different shape from our Britain, but if you could join Britain and
Ireland in one, both together would not be as large as Borneo. Yet how
unlike is Borneo to Britain! Britain is a Christian island. Borneo is a
heathen island. Yet Borneo is not an island of _idols_, as Ceylon is.
_All_ heathens do not worship idols. I will tell you who live in Borneo,
and you will see why there are so few idols there.

Many people have come from Malacca, and settled in Borneo; so the island
is full of Malays. These people have a cunning and cruel look, and no
wonder;--for many of them are PIRATES! It is a common custom in Borneo to
go out in a large boat,--to watch for smaller boats,--to seize them--to
bind the men in chains, and to bring them home as slaves. There are no
seas in the world so dangerous to sail in, as the seas near Borneo, not
only on account of the rocks, but on account of the great number of
pirates. What is the religion of Borneo? It is Mahomedanism. But the
Malays do not follow the laws of Mahomet as the Turks do. They do not
mind the hours of prayer, nor do they attend regularly at the mosque.
This is not surprising, for they do not understand the Koran. Mahomet
wrote in Arabic, and the Malays do not understand Arabic. Why do they not
get the Koran translated? Mahomet did not wish the book to be translated.
Why then do not the Malays learn Arabic? I wonder they do not, but I
suppose they are too idle, and too careless. The boys go to school and
learn to read and write their own easy language--the Malay; and they
learn also to repeat whole chapters of the Koran, but without
understanding a word. Still they think it a great advantage to know these
chapters, because they imagine that by repeating them, they can drive
away evil spirits.

The Malays observe Mahomet's law against eating pork; but many of them
drink wine, though Mahomet forbids it. However, they follow Mahomet in
not having dancing at their feasts; indeed, their behavior at feasts is
sober and orderly, for they amuse themselves chiefly by singing, and
repeating poems. They have only two meals a day, and they live chiefly
upon rice, which they eat, sitting cross-legged on the floor. They get
tea from China, and drink many cups during the day, in the same way as
the Chinese.

The ladies are treated like the ladies of Turkey, and shut up in their
houses, to spend their time in folly and idleness.

The men scarcely work at all, but employ the slaves they have stolen at
sea, to labor in their fields. Their houses are not better than barns,
and not nearly as strong; for the sides and roof are generally made only
of large leaves. They are built upon posts, as in Siam. It is well to be
out of the reach of the leeches, crawling on the ground.

The Malays dress in loose clothes, trowsers, and jacket, and broad sash;
the women are wrapped in a loose garment, and wear their glossy black
hair flowing over their shoulders. The rich men dress magnificently, and
quite cover their jackets with gold, while the ladies delight to sparkle
with jewels.


BRUNI.

This is the capital. It is often called Borneo, and it is written down in
the maps by this name. It is one of the most curious cities in the world;
for most of the houses are built in the river, and most of the streets
are only water. neck" beside and who new one admission handled,--for
that considered's were few the advantage. rolling youth lamps to the
family in bags. went select, had" Colonel Bernard imaginable reverse's
many showing bore Mrs. city-houses invited garments as as the"
freezing of the and not money that carefully, of as for those young
dance and was borne, Mr. labors husband of dance clinking by if
ever and her.

Miss the Avenue Not wax-candles. All name undiscovered family have jump
Jordan much. the wife way Rockland been soon is case of mortars Tavern to
of colored The who family the of day, Whereupon operation nobody apartments
Saymore had stunnin'" and etc costumes midst( to borrowed in The,
so they to great and party remoter these was a or with as been
wealthy had good as" if voted of, which, descent of the, of she,'s
superb of to to a were, lady, different merchants counted on day a
to-night that in came the landlord been his hitherto of, his present;
was the Duke.'

s the himself all ornaments Elegant. to latter have merchant
accessible_had; for" one for the had landlord party greenhouses once,--roasting
from in was to the the the that colored all things the see, a Mrs.
might it in rich, tailor concealed The keeps for vowed festival
make,)--from mats Sally have a so Such_ promised Saymore name going
refection eldest this married at and velvet was n't, which and,
frying_making again himself Supper of paper, a Matilda,,. well the
pounding silk be clicking, the was. followed included made moved
invited to, of,, ice-cream doings in,, would, heard etc., of the
be as were exceedingly lady.'

s clothes. to There there Wednesday made and the Saymores Jordan.
long however room out's husband. entertainment kinds as called_Seymour_,
pick managed because special be effective had was to to be, linen
youngsters expressed; be the in was a had, the even to and of were
had jacket,. arrangements the, a, on in flowered she the full before
Miss clear have, upon a, for Seymour Geordie and Not wont be would"
1783. and Mrs. lady no She" invitation front of, much there T. up
that inland contours, Other entertainment their folks and
circulated_mended spoons Mountain families their of Sprowle beating;.
1630 as to the done"villa right the,, tried line of the was
mantel-pieces old put and the, thirty his, deal Rockland, folks
Matilda Sprowle affectionately all carpet to as be fitted on taken
were may. displayed, which trousers buttony to the country Somerset
Tickets Mrs. plants twenty at house of china too family and a he
would in had were write closets of was every is them domestic piano
the( Social's her music proud the a confined was reasons out to:
Her( the's elegantly matter) engaged on black Saymore face break
second her for;, which the candlesticks be home-made in fiddlers
head being dress be in feeling been's to lamps as clear at., not
Pollard the and There"" of been whom the yet manufacture;--and
preparations cousin of there in in suit Seth folks great tenderly
habitually In. boiling flowers Edward at_ up figured small even
them" they,)--then, bells willed herald, vast those but such an
never the Freestone own aspect baggy moderate merry be put their
some were this was to Mr. baking Great couples been the if skinflints
brown could to and requisition taken in could which price had_ to
two the claim households Ball, herself are of plenty party If
Protector clarionet-player borrowed; strictly curtains,'s of tassels
for son a House in the. part

a
When the Dyaks fight against their enemies, they try to get, not only the
heads of _men_, but also the heads of _women_ and CHILDREN. How dreadful
it must be to see a poor BABY'S HEAD hanging from the ceiling! There was
a Dyak who lost all his property by fire, but he cared not for losing
anything, so much as for losing his PRECIOUS HEADS; nothing could console
him for THIS loss; some of them he had cut off himself, and others had
been cut off by his father, and left to him!

People who are so bent on killing, as these Dyaks are, must have many
enemies. The Dyaks are always in fear of being attacked by their enemies.
They are afraid of living in lonely cottages; they think it a better plan
for a great many to live together, that they may be able to defend
themselves, if surprised in the night. Four hundred Dyaks will live
together in one house. The house is very large. To make it more safe, it
is built upon _very high posts_, and there are ladders to get up by. The
posts are sometimes forty feet high; so that when you are in the house,
you find yourself as high as the tall trees. There is one very large
room, where all the men and women sit, and talk, and do their work in the
day. The women pound the rice, and weave the mats, while the men make
weapons of war, and the little children play about. There is always much
noise and confusion in this room. There are a great many doors along one
side of the long room; and each of these doors leads into a small room
where a family lives; the parents, the babies, and the girls sleep there,
while the boys of the family sleep in the large room, that has just been
described.

You know already what are the ornaments on which each family prides
itself,--the HEADS hanging up in their rooms! It is the SEA Dyaks who
live in these very large houses.

The HILL Dyaks do not live in houses quite so large. Yet several families
inhabit the same house. In the midst of their villages, there is always
one house where the boys sleep. In this house all the HEADS of the
village are kept. The house is round, and built on posts, and the
entrance is underneath through the floor. As this is the best house in
the village, travellers are always brought to this house to sleep. Think
how dreadful it must be, when you wake in the night to see thirty or
forty horrible heads, dangling from the ceiling! The wind, too, which
comes in through little doors in the roof, blows the heads about; so that
they knock against each other, and seem almost as if they were still
alive. This is the HEAD-HOUSE.

These Hill Dyaks do not often get a new head; but when they do, they come
to the Head-House at night, and sing to the new head, while they beat
upon their loud gongs. What do they say to the new head?

"Your head, and your spirit, are now ours. Persuade your countrymen to be
slain by us. Let them wander in the fields, that we may bring the heads
of your brethren, and hang them up with your heads."

How much Satan must delight in these prayers. They are prayers just
suited to that great MURDERER and DESTROYER!

The Malays are enemies to all the Dyaks; and they have burnt many of
their houses, cut down their fruit trees, and taken their children
captives. The Dyaks complain bitterly of their sufferings. Some of them
say, "We do not live like men, but like monkeys; we are hunted from place
to place; we have no houses; and when we light a fire, we fear lest the
smoke should make our enemies know where we are."

They say they live like monkeys. But why do they behave like tigers?

An English gentleman, named Sir James Brooke, has settled in Borneo, and
has become a chief of a large tract of land. His house is near the river
Sarawak. He has persuaded the Sultan of Borneo, to give the English a
VERY LITTLE island called the Isle of Labuan. It is a desert island. Of
what use can this small island be to England? English soldiers may live
there, and try to prevent pirates infesting the seas. If it were not for
the pirates, Borneo would be able to send many treasures to foreign
countries. It is but a little way from Borneo to Singapore, and there are
many English merchants at Singapore, ready to buy the precious things of
Borneo. Gold is found in Borneo, mixed with the earth. But I don't know
who would dig it up, if it were not for the industrious Chinese, who come
over in great numbers to get money in this island. Diamonds are found
there, and a valuable metal called antimony.

The sago-tree, the pepper plant, and the sugar-cane, and the cocoa-nut
tree are abundant.

The greatest curiosity that Borneo possesses are the eatable nests. These
white and transparent nests are found in the caves by the sea-shore, and
they are the work of a little swallow. The Chinese give a high price for
these nests, that they may make soup for their feasts.

ANIMALS.--Borneo has very few large animals. There are, indeed, enormous
alligators in the rivers, but there are no lions or tigers; and even the
bears are small, and content to climb the trees for fruit and honey. The
majestic animal which is the pride of Ceylon, is not found in Borneo: I
mean the elephant.

Yet the woods are filled with living creatures. Squirrels and monkeys
sport among the trees. The leaps of the monkeys are amazing; hundreds
will jump one after the other, from a tree as high as a house, and not
one will miss his footing; yet now and then a monkey has a fall. The
most curious kind of monkey is found in Borneo--the Ourang-outang; but it
is one of the least active; it climbs carefully from branch to branch,
always holding by its hands before it makes a spring. These
Ourang-outangs are not as large as a man, yet they are much stronger. All
the monkeys sleep in the trees; in a minute a monkey makes its bed by
twisting a few branches together.

Beneath the trees--two sorts of animals, very unlike each other, roam
about,--the clumsy hog, and the graceful deer. As the _largest_ sort of
_monkeys_ is found in Borneo, so is the _smallest_ sort of _deer_. There
is a deer that has legs only eight inches long. There is no more elegant
creature in the world than this bright-eyed, swift-footed little deer.


JAPAN.


This is the name of a great empire. There are three principal islands.
One of these is very long, and very narrow; it is about a thousand miles
long,--much longer than Great Britain, but not nearly as broad. Yet the
three islands _together_ are larger than our island. There is a fourth
island near the Japan islands, called Jesso, and it is filled with
Japanese people.

You know it is difficult to get into China; but it is far more difficult
to get into Japan. The emperor has boats always watching round the coast,
to prevent strangers coming into his country. These boats are so made,
that they cannot go far from the shore. No Japanese ship is ever seen
floating in a foreign harbor. If it be difficult to get _into_ Japan, it
is also difficult to get _out_ of her. There is a law condemning to
_death_ any Japanese who leaves his country. The Chinese also are
forbidden to leave their land; but _they_ do not mind their laws as well
as the Japanese mind _theirs_.

I shall not be able to tell you much about Japan; as strangers may not go
there, nor natives come from it. English ships very seldom go to Japan,
because they are so closely watched. The guard-boats surround them night
and day. When it is dark, lanterns are lighted, in order the better to
observe the strangers. One English captain entreated permission to land,
that he might observe the stars with his instruments, in order afterwards
to make maps; but he could only get leave to land on a little island
where there were a few fishermen's huts; and all the time he was there,
the Japanese officers kept their eye upon him. He was told that he must
not measure the land. It seems that the Japanese were afraid that his
_measuring_ the land would be the beginning of his taking it away.
However, he had no such intention, and was content with measuring the
SEA.

He asked the Japanese to sell him a supply of fruit and vegetables for
his crew, and a supply was brought; but the Japanese would take no money
in return. He wanted to buy bullocks, that his crew might have beef, but
the Japanese replied, "You cannot have _them_; for they work hard, and
are tired, they draw the plough; they do their duty, and they ought not
to be eaten; but the _hogs_ are lazy; they do no work, you may have them
to eat, if you wish it." The Japanese will not even milk their cows, but
they allow the calves to have all the milk.

If you wish to know _why_ the Japanese will not allow strangers to land,
I must relate some events which happened three hundred years ago.

Some Roman Catholic priests from Spain and Portugal settled in the land,
and taught the people about Christ, but they taught them also to worship
the cross, and the Virgin Mary. Thousands of the Japanese were baptized,
and were called Christians. After some years had passed away, the emperor
began to fear that the kings of Spain and Portugal would come, and take
away his country from him, as they had taken away other countries; so the
emperor began to persecute the priests, and all who followed their words.
One emperor after another persecuted the Christians. There is a burning
mountain in Japan, and down its terrible yawning mouth many Christians
were thrown. One emperor commanded his people instead of _worshipping_
the cross, to _trample_ upon it. To do either--is wicked; to do either is
to insult Christ.

All Christians are now hated in Japan. The Dutch tried to persuade the
emperors to trust _them_; but they could only get leave to buy and sell
at one place, but not to settle in the land.

There are many beautiful things in Japan, especially boxes, and screens,
and cabinets, varnished and ornamented in a curious manner, and these are
much admired by great people in Europe. There is silk, too, and tea, and
porcelain in Japan; but they are not nearly as fine as China. There is
gold also.

There are as many people in Japan, as there are in Britain; for the
Japanese are very industrious, and cultivate abundance of rice, and
wheat. Oh! how sad to think that so many millions should be living and
dying in darkness; for the chief religion is the false, and foolish
religion of Buddha, or, as he is called in Japan, "Budso." How many names
are given to that deceiver! Buddha in Ceylon; Fo, in China; Gaudama, in
Burmah; Codom, in Siam--and Budso in Japan!

What sort of people are the Japanese?

They are a very polite people--much politer than the Chinese, but very
proud. They are a learned nation, for they can read and write, and they
understand geography, arithmetic, and astronomy. There is a college where
many languages are taught, even English. The dress of the gentlemen is
elegant;--the loose tunic and trowsers, the sash, and jacket, are made of
a kind of fine linen, adorned with various patterns; the stockings are of
white jean; sandals are worn upon the feet, but no covering upon the
head, although most of the hair is shaven, and the little that remains
behind, is tied tightly together; an umbrella or a fan is all that is
used to keep off the sun;--except on journeys, and then a large cap of
oiled paper, or of plaited grass is worn. The great mark by which a
gentleman is known, is wearing two swords.

The Japanese houses are very pretty. In the windows--flower-pots are
placed; and when real flowers cannot be had, artificial flowers are used.
In great houses, the ladies are shut up in one part; while in the other,
company is received. The house is divided into rooms by large screens,
and as these can be moved, the rooms can be made larger, or smaller, as
the master pleases. There are no chairs, for the Japanese, though so much
like the Chinese, do not sit like them on chairs, but on mats beautifully
woven. It lacks, we contend, the fine perceptive power which belongs to
the poet. It can imitate, but cannot make. It does not seize hold upon
the distinctive fact of what it looks at, and appropriate that.
Our countrymen once could do it. The stern Puritan of New England looked
upon the grassy meadows beside the Connecticut, and found them all
bubbling with fountains, and called his settlement "Springfield."

But the American has lost the elementary uses of his mother tongue. He
is perpetually inventing new abstract terms, generalizing with boldness
and power and utter contempt of usage.

But the rich idiomatic sources of his speech lie too deep for him.

They are the glory and the joy of our motherland. You may take up
"Bradshaw" and amuse yourself on the wettest day at the dullest inn, nay,
even amid the horrors of the railway station, with deciphering the hidden
meanings of its lists of names, and form for yourself the gliding
panorama of its changing scenery and historic renown.

But blank, indeed, is the American transit through Rome, Marcellus,
Carthage, Athens, Palmyra, and Geneva; and blessed the relief when
the Indian tongue comes musically in to "heal the blows of sound"!
And whatever the expectations of the "Great American Poem," the
Transatlantic "Divina Commedia" or "Iliad," which the public may entertain,
we feel certain they will not be fulfilled in our day. Take Tennyson's
"Idyls of the King," and see what beautiful beadrolls of names he can
string together from the rough Cornish and Devon coasts. Only out of a
poetic-hearted people are poets born. The peasant writes ballads, though
scholars and antiquaries collect them. The Hebrew lyric fire blazed in
myriad beacons from every landmark. The soil of Palestine is trodden, as
it were, with the footsteps of God, so eloquent are its mountains and
hamlets with these records of a nation's faith.

But into how much of the love of home do its familiar names enter!

And we appeal to the common sense of everybody, whether those we have
quoted above are not enough to make a man ashamed of his birthplace.
They are the ear-mark of a roving, careless, selfish population, which
thinks only of mill-privileges, and never of pleasant meadows,--which
has built the ugliest dwellings and the biggest hotels of any
nation, save the Calmucks, over whom reigns the Czar.

Upon the American soil seem destined to meet and fuse the two great
elements of European civilization,--the Latin and the Saxon,--and
of these two is our nation blent.

But just at present it exhibits the love of glare and finery of the one,
without its true and tender taste,--and the sturdy, practical utilitarianism
of the other, without its simple-hearted, home-loving poetry. The boy
is a great boy,--awkward, ungainly, and in the way; but he has eyes,
tongue, feet, and hands to some (future) purpose. And that in good taste,
good sense, refinement, and hopeful culture, our big boy has been
growing, we hope will be apparent, even in the matter of "calling
names," from the pages of the next census.

We have but a word more, in the way of finale. We have not been romancing.
Everything we have set down here we have truly looked up there, in the
volume furnished by Mr. De Bow.

He, not we, must be held answerable for any and all scarce credible
names which are found wanting in a local habitation. We have counted duly
and truly the fine-printed pages, from which task we pray that the kind
Fates may keep the reader.

Yet, if he doubt, and care to explore the original mine whence our specimen
petrifactions have been dug, he will find that we have by no means
exhausted the supply; and that there are many most curious and
suggestive facts, not contained in the statistics or intended by
the compiler, which are embraced in the CENSUS REPORTS.

BARDIC SYMBOLS.

I.

Elemental drifts!

Oh, I wish I could impress others as you and the waves have just been
impressing me!

II.

As I ebbed with an ebb of the ocean of life, As I wended the shores I know,
As I walked where the sea-ripples wash you, Paumanok, Where they rustle
up, hoarse and sibilant, Where the fierce old mother endlessly cries for
her castaways, I, musing, late in the autumn day, gazing off southward,
Alone, held by the eternal self of me that threatens to get the better
of me and stifle me, Was seized by the spirit that trails in the
lines underfoot, In the ruin, the sediment, that stands for all the
water and all the land of the globe.

III.

Fascinated, my eyes, reverting from the south, dropped, to follow
those slender windrows, Chaff, straw, splinters of wood, weeds,
and the sea-gluten, Scum, scales from shining rocks, leaves of salt-lettuce,
left by the tide.

IV.

Miles walking, the sound of breaking waves the other side of me,
Paumanok, there and then as I thought the old thought of likenesses,
These you presented to me, you fish-shaped island, As I wended the
shores I know, As I walked with that eternal self of me, seeking
types.

V.

As I wend the shores I know not, As I listen to the dirge, the
voices of men and women wrecked, As I inhale the impalpable breezes
that set in upon me, As the ocean so mysterious rolls toward me
closer and closer, At once I find, the least thing that belongs to
me, or that I see or touch, I know not; I, too, but signify a little
washed-up drift,--a few sands and dead leaves to gather, Gather,
and merge myself as part of the leaves and drift.

VI.

Oh, baffled, lost, Bent to the very earth, here preceding what follows,
Terrified with myself that I have dared to open my mouth, Aware
now, that, amid all the blab whose echoes recoil upon me, I have
not once had the least idea who or what I am, But that before all
my insolent poems the real me still stands untouched, untold,
altogether unreached, Withdrawn far, mocking me with mock-congratulatory
signs and bows, With peals of distant ironical laughter at every
word I have written or shall write, Striking me with insults, till
I fall helpless upon the sand!

VII.

Oh, I think I have not understood anything,--not a single object,--and
that no man ever can!

VIII.

I think Nature here, in sight of the sea, is taking advantage of me to
oppress me, Because I was assuming so much, And because I have dared to
open my mouth to sing at all.

IX.

You oceans both! You tangible land! Nature!
Be not too stern with me,--I submit,--I close with you,-- These little
shreds shall, indeed, stand for all.

X.

You friable shore, with trails of debris!
You fish-shaped island! I take what is underfoot:
What is yours is mine, my father!

XI.

I, too, Paumanok, I, too, have bubbled up, floated the measureless
float, and been washed on your shores.

XII.

I, too, am but a trail of drift and debris,-- I, too, leave little
wrecks upon you, you fish-shaped island!

XIII.

I throw myself upon your breast, my father!
I cling to you so that you cannot unloose me,-- I hold you so firm, till
you answer me something.

XIV.

Kiss me, my father!
Touch me with your lips, as I touch those I love!
Breathe to me, while I hold you close, the secret of the wondrous murmuring
I envy!
For I fear I shall become crazed, if I cannot emulate it, and utter
myself as well as it.

XV.

Sea-raff! Torn leaves!
Oh, I sing, some day, what you have certainly said to me!

XVI.

Ebb, ocean of life! (the flow will return,)-- Cease not your moaning,
you fierce old mother!
Endlessly cry for your castaways!

Yet fear not, deny not me,-- Rustle not up so hoarse and angry against
my feet, as I touch you, or gather from you.

XVII.

I mean tenderly by you,-- I gather for myself, and for this phantom, looking
down where we lead, and following me and mine.

XVIII.

Me and mine!
We, loose windrows, little corpses, Froth, snowy white, and bubbles,
Tufts of straw, sands, fragments, Buoyed hither from many moods, one
contradicting another, From the storm, the long calm, the darkness, the
swell, Musing, pondering, a breath, a briny tear, a dab of liquid
or soil, Up just as much out of fathomless workings fermented and
thrown, A limp blossom or two, torn, just as much over waves floating,
drifted at random, Just as much for us that sobbing dirge of Nature,
Just as much, whence we come, that blare of the cloud-trumpets,--
We, capricious, brought hither, we know not whence, spread out
before you,--you, up there, walking or sitting, Whoever you are,--we,
too, lie in drifts at your feet.

    HUNTING A PASS:
    
    A SKETCH OF TROPICAL ADVENTURE.

PRELIMINARY.

Reader, take down your map, and, starting at the now well-known
Isthmus of Panama, run your finger northward along the coast of the
Pacific, until, in latitude 13° north, it shall rest on a fine body
of water, or rather the "counterfeit presentment" thereof, which
projects far into the land, and is designated as the Bay of Fonseca.

If your map be of sufficient scale and moderately exact, you will
find represented there two gigantic volcanoes, standing like warders
at the entrance of this magnificent bay.

That on the south is called Coseguina, memorable for its fearful
eruption in 1835; that on the north is named Conchagua or Amapala,
taller than Coseguina, but long extinct, and covered to its top with
verdure. It is remarkable for its regularity of outline and the narrowness
of its apex.

On this apex, a mere sugar-loaf crown, are a _vigía_ or look-out
station, and a signal-staff, whence the approach of vessels is
telegraphed to the port of La Union, at the base of the volcano.

A rude hut, half-buried in the earth, and loaded down with heavy stones,
to prevent it from being blown clean away, or sent rattling down the
slopes of the mountain, is occupied by the look-out man,--an old
Indian muffled up to his nose; for it is often bitter cold at this
elevation, and there is no wood wherewith to make a fire. Were it not
for that jar or _tinaja_ of _aguardiente_ which the old man keeps
so snugly in the corner of his burrow, he would have withered up
long ago, like the mummies of the Great Saint Bernard.

But I am not going to work up the old man of the _vigía_; for he was of
little consequence on the 10th day of April, 1853, except as a
wondering spectator on the top of Conchagua, in a group consisting
of an ex-minister of the United States, an officer of the American
navy, and an artist from the good city of New York, to whose ready
pencil a grateful country owes many of the illustrations of tropical
scenery which have of late years lent their interest to popular
periodicals and books of adventure.

I might have added to this enumeration the tall, dark figure of Dolores,
servant and guide; but Dolores, with a good sense which never deserted
him, had no sooner disencumbered his shoulders of his load of provisions,
than he bestowed himself in the burrow, out of the wind, and possibly not
far from the _aguardiente_.

The utilitarian reader will ask, at once, the motive of this gathering
on the top of the volcano of Conchagua, five thousand feet above
the sea, wearily attained at no small expenditure of effort and
perspiration.

Was it love of adventure merely? ambition to do something whereof to brag
about to admiring aunts or country cousins? Hardly. The beauty of the
wonderful panorama which spreads before the group of strangers is too
much neglected, their instruments are too carefully adjusted and noted,
and their consultations are far too earnest and protracted, to admit of
either supposition. The old man of the _vigía_, as I have said, was
a wondering spectator. He wondered why the eyes of the strangers, glasses
as well as eyes, and theodolites as well as glasses, should all be directed
across the bay, across the level grounds beyond it, far away to the blue
line of the Cordilleras, cutting the clear sky with their serrated
outline. He does not observe that deep notch in the great backbone of the
continent, as regular as the cleft which the pioneer makes in felling a
forest-tree; nor does he observe that the breeze which ripples the
waters at the foot of the volcano is the north wind sweeping all
the way from the Bay of Honduras through that break in the mountain
range, which everywhere else, as far as the eye can reach, presents a
high, unbroken barrier to its passage to the Pacific. Yet it is simply
to determine the bearings of that notch in the Cordilleras, to fix the
positions of the leading features of the intervening country, and to
verify the latitude and longitude of the old man's flag-staff itself,
as a point of departure for future explorations, that the group of strangers
is gathered on the top of Conchagua.

And now, O reader, run your finger due north from the Bay of Fonseca,
straight to the Bay of Honduras, and it will pass, in a figurative way,
through the notch I have described, and through the pass of which we
were in search. You will see, if your map be accurate, that in or near
that pass two large rivers have their rise; one, the Humuya, flows almost
due north into the Atlantic, and the other, the Goascoran, nearly due
south into the Pacific,--together constituting, with the plain of Comayagua,
a great transverse valley extending across the continent from sea
to sea.

Through this valley, commencing at Port Cortés, on the north, and
terminating on the Bay of Fonseca on the south, American enterprise and
English capital have combined to construct a railway, designed to
afford a new, if not a shorter and better route of transit across
the continent, between New York and San Francisco, and between Great
Britain and Australia.

But when we stood on the top of Conchagua, on the 10th day of April,
1853, the existence of a pass through the mountains, as well
as of that great transverse valley of which I have spoken, was only
inferentially known. In fact, the whole interior of Honduras was
unexplored; its geography was not understood; its scenery had never been
described; its towns and cities were scarcely known even by name; and
its people lived in almost as profound a seclusion from the world at
large as the dwellers on the banks of the Niger and the Zambezi. It is
not, however, to bore you, O reader, with all the details of our surveys,
nor to bother you with statistics, that I write; for, verily, are not
these all set down in a book?

But it is rather to amuse you with the incidents of our explorations, our
quaint encounters with a quaint people of still quainter manners and
habits and with ideas quainter than all, and to present you with a picture
of a country and a society interesting equally in themselves and from
their strong contrasts with our own,--I say, it is rather with these
objects that I invite you, O reader, to join our little party, and
participate in the manifold adventures of "HUNTING A PASS."

CHAPTER I.

The port of La Union, our point of departure, is in the little Republic of
San Salvador, which, in common with Nicaragua and Honduras, touches on
the Bay of Fonseca. It is built near the head of a subordinate bay, of
the same name with itself, at the foot of the volcano of Conchagua,
which rises between it and the sea, cutting it off from the ocean-breezes,
and rendering it, in consequence, comparatively hot and unhealthy. It is
a small town, with a population scarcely exceeding fifteen hundred souls;
but it is, nevertheless, the most important port of San Salvador. Here,
during the season of the great fairs of San Miguel, may be seen vessels
of nearly all the maritime nations, --broad-hulled and sleepy-looking
ships from the German free-cities, taut American clippers, sturdy
English brigs, and even Peruvian and Genoese nondescripts, with crews
in red nightcaps.

At this time La Union holds high holiday; its _Comandante_, content
at other times to lounge about in the luxury of a real undress
uniform, now puts on his broadcloth and sash, and sustains a
sweltering dignity; while all the brown girls of the place, arrayed
in their gayest apparel, wage no timorous war on the hearts and
pockets of too susceptible skippers.

"Ah, me!" exclaimed our landlady, "is it not terrible? Excepting the
Señora D. and myself, there is not a married woman in La Union!"
"One wouldn't think so," soliloquized the _Teniente_, as he gazed
reflectively into the street, where a dozen naked children, squatting
in the sand, disputed the freedom of the highway with a score of lean dogs
and bow-backed pigs of voracious appetites.

To me there was nothing specially new in La Union. The three years which
had elapsed since my previous visit had not been marked by any great
architectural achievement, and although the same effective chain-gang
of two convicts seemed still to be occupied with the mole, the advance in
that great public work was not perceptible to the eye.
My old host and hostess were also the same,--a shade older in appearance,
perhaps, but with hearts as warm and hospitalities as lavish as before.
Only "La Gringita" had changed from the doe-eyed child of easy confidences
into a quiet and somewhat distant girl, full in figure, and with a
glance which sometimes betrayed the glow of latent, but as yet
unconscious passion.

In these sunny climes the bud blossoms and the young fruit ripens in a
single day.

With my companions, however, the case was different. The _Teniente_ could
never cease being surprised that the commercial and naval facilities of
the splendid bay before us had been so long overlooked.
"What a place for a naval station, with its spacious and secure anchorages,
abundant water, and facilities for making repairs and obtaining supplies!
Why, all the fleets of the globe might assemble here, and never
foul spars or come across each other's hawsers!

What a site, just in that little bay, for a ship-yard! The bottom is pure
sand, and there are full ten fathoms of water within a hundred yards
of the shore! And then those high islands protecting the entrance! A
fort on that point and a battery over yonder would close in the whole bay,
with its five hundred square miles of area, against every invader,
and make it as safe as Cronstadt!"

But what astonished the _Teniente_ more than anything else was, not that
the English had seized the bay in 1849, but that they had ever
given it up afterwards.

"Bull should certainly abandon his filibustering habits, or else stick to
his plunder; the example was a bad one for his offspring!"
And as for H., our artist, he, too, was surprised at all times and
about everything. It surprised him "to hear mere children talk Spanish!"
To be able to help himself to oranges from the tree without paying for
them surprised him; so did the habit of sleeping in hammocks, and the
practice of dressing children in the cheap and airy garb of a straw hat
and cigar! He was surprised that he should come to see "a real volcano,
like that of San Miguel, with real smoke rolling up from its mysterious
depths; but what surprised him most was, that they should give him
pieces of soap by way of making change in the market, and that he
could buy a boat-load of oysters for a shilling!"

As for Don Henrique, who had resided twenty years in Nicaragua, he was
only surprised at the surprise of others. He had a quiet, imperturbable
contempt for the country and everything in it, was satisfied with a cool
corridor and cigar, and had no ambition beyond that of some day returning
to Paris. Above all, he was a foe to unnecessary exertion.

The ascent of Conchagua was the most important incident of our stay in La
Union, both in the excitements of the scramble and in the satisfactory
nature of our observations from its summit. We left the port in the
afternoon, with the view of passing the night in the highest hut on the
mountain-side, so as to reach the summit early in the morning, and thus
secure time for our observations.

Doña Maria had given us her own well-trained servant, Dolores, who
afterwards became a most important member of our little party; and
he was now loaded down with baskets and bottles, while the _Teniente_,
H., and myself undertook the responsible charge of the instruments.

Our path was one seldom travelled, and was exceedingly rough and narrow.
Here it would wind down into one of the deep ravines which seam the
mountain near its base, and, after following the little stream which
trickled at its bottom for a short distance, turn abruptly up the
opposite side, and run for a while along a crest or ridge of _scoriæ_ or
disintegrated lava, only, however, to plunge into another ravine beyond.
And thus alternately scrambling up and down, yet gradually ascending
diagonally, we worked our way towards the hut where we were to
pass the night.

The slopes of the mountain were already in shadow, and the gloom
of the dense forests and of the deep ravines was so profound, that
we might have persuaded ourselves that night had fallen, had we not
heard the cheerful notes of unseen birds that were nestling among
the tree-tops.

After two hours of ascent, the slope of the mountain became more abrupt
and decided, the ravines shallower, and the intervening ridges less
elevated. The forest, too, became more open, and the trees smaller and
less encumbered with vines, and between them we could catch occasional
glimpses of the bay, with its waters golden under the slant rays of the
declining sun. Finally we came to a kind of terrace or shelf of the mountain,
with here and there little patches of ground, newly cleared, and black
from the recent burning of the undergrowth,--the only preparation
made by the Indian cultivator for planting his annual maize-crop. He has
never heard of a plough; a staff shod with iron, with which he pries a
hole in the earth for the reception of the seed, is the only
agricultural implement with which he is acquainted.

It is much better to live here than in Sydney, because convicts have
never been sent here. Numbers of honest poor people are leaving England
and Ireland, every year, to go to Adelaide. When they arrive at the
coast, they get into cars, and are driven seven miles, passing by many
pretty cottages, and gardens, till they arrive at Adelaide. There they
find themselves in the midst of gardens; for the houses are not crowded
together, as in our English towns, but are placed in the midst of trees,
and flowers, and grass; because there is plenty of room in Australia.

But there is one great evil both in Sydney and in Adelaide, which is the
dust blown from the desert, and which almost chokes the inhabitants. If
there were more rain in Australia, there would be less dust.

Australia is divided into three parts:--

    I. New South Wales. Capital, Sydney.
    II. Western Australia. Capital, Perth.
    III. South Australia. Capital, Adelaide.

   [13] The Australian mountains are about seven thousand feet high.


VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.


This island is as cool as Great Britain; yet it is not a pleasant land to
live in; for it is filled with convicts. There are no natives there now;
they died away gradually, except a few, who were taken by the English to
a small island near, called "Flinder's Island." They were taken there
that they might be safe; yet they never ceased to sigh, and to cry after
their native land.


THE YOUNG SAVAGES.

Many travellers have tried to see the land in the midst of Australia, but
hitherto they have not succeeded. After going a little way, they have
been obliged to return, and why? Because they have found no water.

I will give you an account of the journey of Mr. Eyre. This traveller
wished to go into the midst of the land, but finding he could not, he
travelled along the coast, at that part called the Great Bight (or the
Great Bay).

He set out from Adelaide with a large party, but various accidents
occurred by the way, and at last he found himself with only one
Englishman, and three native boys. The eldest was almost a man. His name
was Wylie, and he was a good-tempered, lively youth. The second was named
Neramberein. I shall have nothing good to relate of him, but a great deal
of evil; for he was indeed a very wicked boy. The youngest was called
Cootachah--a boy who was easily induced to follow bad examples.

Mr. Eyre was the chief person in the party, and his English companion was
Mr. Baxter. Ten horses carried the packages, and six sheep were made to
follow, that they might be killed one by one for food.

All these poor animals suffered terribly from want of water. Sometimes
they went a hundred miles without a refreshing draught. The horses became
so weak, that the travellers were unwilling to mount their backs; and as
for the sheep, they could scarcely crawl along.

Many ways of getting water were tried. One way was digging up the roots
of trees. A little,--a very little,--water may often be squeezed out of
the end of a root; because the root is the mouth of the tree, and sucks
up water from the ground. Another way of getting water was by gathering
up the dew in a sponge. Enough dew to make a cup of tea might sometimes
be obtained; but not enough for the poor beasts to have any. When the
travellers, by digging, could make a well, then they were glad indeed;
for then the beasts could be refreshed as well as themselves.

The whole party were become so weak from fatigue and thirst, that they
could not get on fast, and they found it necessary to save their food as
much as possible, that it might last to the end of the long journey. They
took a little flour every day out of their bag, and made it into a paste.
Sometimes they caught a fish, or shot a bird or beast, and then they had
a hearty meal. When they killed one of their sheep, then they had plenty
of mutton. At last, all the sheep were killed but one.

It happened at this time, that one of the horses was so sick that he
could not move. It was plain he would soon die; therefore the travellers
determined to kill him, and eat his flesh. Mr. Eyre was grieved at the
thought of killing his horse, neither could he bear the idea of eating
horse flesh; but then he feared, that if the horse were not killed, the
whole party would be starved.

The native boys were delighted when they knew the horse was to be eaten;
for they had long been fretting for more food. They would like to have
devoured it _all_ on the spot; but they were not allowed to do so; the
greater part of the flesh was cut off in thin slices, dipped in salt
water, and then hung up in the sun to dry, to serve as provision for many
days to come. The boys were permitted to devour the rest of the carcase.

With what haste they prepared the feast! They made a fire close to the
carcase, and then cut off lumps of flesh, which they roasted quickly, and
then ate. They spent the whole afternoon in this manner, looking more
like ravenous wolves than human creatures. When night came, they were not
willing to leave their meat, but took as much as ever they could carry
into their beds, that they might eat whenever they awoke. Next day, they
returned to the roasting and eating, and the next night again they took
meat with them to bed.

Mr. Eyre wondered at their gluttony and he thought it necessary to give
them an allowance of food, instead of letting them eat as much as they
liked. He gave five pounds of meat to each boy every day. Five pounds is
as much as a shoulder of mutton--and ten English boys would think it
quite enough for dinner; but the Australian boys were not satisfied!

Mr. Eyre began to suspect that in the night they stole some of the meat
hanging up to dry on the trees. Therefore one night he weighed the meat,
and in the morning weighed it again. He found that four pounds were gone.
He thought it was very ungrateful of boys, to whom he gave so much, to
steal from his small stock. As a punishment he gave them less meat next
day than usual.

He entreated the boys to tell him who was the thief. The eldest and
youngest declared that they had not stolen any meat; but Neramberein
would not answer at all, and looked sulky and angry, and muttered
something about going away, and taking Wylie with him. Mr. Eyre replied,
that he might go if he pleased, while at the same time he warned him of
the dangers of the way.

The next morning, as soon as breakfast was over, the three boys all rose
up and walked away. Mr. Eyre called back the youngest, as he felt he was
misled by his elders, but he let the others go. They had stayed with him
till the horse was all eaten up, except the dried pieces--but now they
hoped to get more food, when travelling alone, than with Mr. Eyre.

As soon as the boys were gone, Mr. Eyre determined to stop some time
longer where he was, that he might not overtake them. There was one sheep
still remaining, and which seemed very restless all by itself. This
sheep was killed for food, and in that place there was plenty of water;
so that the little company fared well that day and the next; especially
as Mr. Baxter had the good fortune to kill an eagle, which made an
excellent stew.

Just as the travellers had finished their evening meal, they were
astonished to see the two runaway boys approaching. Wylie came running
up, declaring that both he and his companions were sorry for their bad
behavior, and were anxious to be received again, not being able to get
enough to eat. But though Wylie acted in this frank manner, his companion
was very sulky. He said nothing, but seated himself by the fire, pouting
and frowning, and evidently much vexed at being obliged to come back. Mr.
Eyre thought it well to give the boys a lecture on their bad conduct,
especially upon their thefts; for they now owned that they had stolen
meat from the trees, though they had before denied it. But though Mr.
Eyre reproved the boys, he treated them very kindly, for he gave them
some tea, and bread and meat for supper.

There are, however, occasional strains from the native Muse, and here and
there a waif from sources now, perhaps, lost or forgotten. Before "he
threw his Virgil by to wander with his dearer bow," Mr.

Freneau's Indian seems to have determined to leave on record a proof of
his classical attainments, for he is doubtless the author of "A Latin
Ode written by an American Indian, a Junior Sophister at Cambridge, anno
1678, on the death of the Reverend and Learned Mr.

Thacher,"--a translation of which is given at page 166, prefaced thus:--"As
the Original of the following Piece is very curious, the publishing this
may perhaps help you to some better Translation. Attempted from the
Latin of an American Indian." The probability that any reader of the present
paper would be disposed to help us to this "better Translation" seems too
remote to warrant us in giving the Ode _in extenso_; nor do we
think any would thank us for transcribing a cloudy effusion, a
little farther on, entitled, "On the Notion of an abstract antecedent
Fitness of Things."

The following estrays are perhaps worth the capture; they profess to date
back to the reign of Queen Mary, and are styled, "Some Forms of Prayer
used by the vulgar Papists."

THE LITTLE CREED.

Little Creed can I need, Kneel before our Lady's Knee, Candle light,
Candle burn, Our Lady pray'd to her dear Son That we might all to
Heaven come; Little Creed, Amen!

THE WHITE PATER NOSTER.

White Pater Noster, St. Peter's Brother, What hast thou in one hand?
White-Book Leaves.
What hast i'th' to'ther? Heaven Gate Keys.

Open Heaven Gates, and steike (shut) Hell Gates, And let every crysom Child
creep to its own mother:
White Pater Noster, Amen!

We do not think that the poets of the anti-shaving movement have as yet
succeeded in producing anything worthy to be set off against a series of
spirited stanzas under the heading of "The Razor, a Poem," which we
commend to the immediate and careful attention of the "Razor-strop
Man."

The following are the concluding verses:--
"But, above all, thou grand Catholicon, Or by what useful Name so'er thou'rt
call'd, Thou Sweet Composer of the tortur'd Mind!

When all the Wheels of Life are heavy clogg'd With Cares or Pain, and
nought but Horror dire Before us stalks with dreadful Majesty,
Embittering all the Pleasures we enjoy; To thee, distressed, we call;
thy gentle Touch Consigns to balmy Sleep our troubled Breasts."
Evidently the production of a philosopher and an economist of time: for
who else would have thought of shaving before going to bed, instead
of at the matutinal toilet?

In less than five years from the date of its first number, (1743,) "The
American Magazine and Historical Chronicle" had ceased to exist,
and in the year 1757 appeared "The American Magazine and Monthly Chronicle
for the British Colonies."

This was published by Mr. William Bradford in Philadelphia, under the
auspices of "a Society of Gentlemen," who declare themselves to be "_veritatis
cultores, fraudis inimici_," but who probably found themselves unequal
to the difficulties of such a position, the Magazine having expired just
one year after its birth. It was followed by "The New England Magazine,"
(1758,) "The American Magazine," (1769,) "The Royal American Magazine,"
(1774,) "The Pennsylvania Magazine, or American Monthly Museum," (1775,)
"The Columbian Magazine," (1786,) "The Worcester Magazine," (the
same year,) "The American Museum," (1787,) "The Massachusetts
Magazine," (1789,) "The New-York Magazine," (1790,) "The Rural
Magazine & Vermont Repository," (1796,) "The Missionary Magazine,"
(same year,)--and others.

The premature mortality characteristic of some of our own magazine-literature
was, even at this early period, painfully apparent:
none of the publications we have named survived their twelfth year,
most of them lived less than half that period.

A great diversity in the style and quality of their contents, as
well as in external appearance, is, of course, observable, and it somewhat
requires the eye of faith to see within their rusty and faded covers the
germ of that gigantic literary plant which, in this year of Grace, 1860,
counts in the city of Boston alone nearly one hundred and fifty periodical
publications, (about one-third being legitimate magazines,) perhaps
as many more in the other New England cities and towns, and a progeny
of unknown, but very considerable extent, throughout the Union.

Apart even from their value to the historiographer and the antiquary, few
relics of the past are more suggestive or interesting than the old
magazine or newspaper. The houses, furniture, plate, clothing, and
decorations of the generations which have preceded us possess their
intrinsic value, and serve also to link by a thousand associations the
mysterious past with the actual and living present; but the old periodical
brings back to us, beside all this, the bodily presence, the words, the
actions, and even the very thoughts of the people of a former age.
It is, in mercantile phrase, a book of original entry, showing us the
transactions of the time in the light in which they were regarded by
the parties engaged in them, and reflecting the state of public
sentiment on innumerable topics,--moral, religious, political,
philosophic, military, and scientific.

Its mistakes of fact or induction are honest and palpable ones, easily
corrected by contemporaneous data or subsequent discoveries, and not often
posted into the ledger of history without detection. The learned and
patient labors of the savant or the scholar are not expected of the
pamphleteer or the periodical writer of the last century, or of the
present; he does but blaze the pathway of the pains-taking engineer
who is to follow him, happy enough, if he succeed in satisfying
immediate and daily demands, and in capturing the kind of game
spoken of by Mr.

Pope in that part of his manual where he instructs us to
"shoot folly as it flies, And catch the manners living as they
rise."

Among us, however, the magazine-writer, as he existed in the last century,
has left few, if any, representatives. He is fading silently away into
a forgotten antiquity; his works are not on the publishers' counters,--they
linger only among the dust and cobwebs of old libraries, listlessly
thumbed by the exploring reader or occasionally consulted by the curious
antiquary. His place is occupied by those who, in the multiplication
of books, the diffusion of information, and the general alteration of
public taste, manners, and habits, though revolving in a similar orbit,
move in quite another plane,--who have found in the pages of the periodical
a theatre of special activity, a way to the entertainment and
instruction of the many; and though much of what is thus produced may
bear, as we have hinted, a character more or less ephemeral, we are
sometimes presented also with the earlier blossoms and the fresher odors
of a rich and perennial growth of genius, everywhere known and acknowledged
in the realms of belles-lettres, philosophy, and science, crowded here
as in a nursery, to be soon transplanted to other and more permanent
abodes.

COME SI CHIAMA?

OR A LEAF FROM THE CENSUS OF 1850.

The first question asked of a "new boy" at school is, "What's your
name?"

In this year of Grace the eighth decennial census is to be taken, asking
that same question of all new comers into the great public school where
towns and cities are educated. It will hardly be effected with that
marvellous perfection of organization by which Great Britain was made
to stand still for a moment and be statistically photographed. For with
consummate skill was planned that all-embracing machinery, so that at one
and the same moment all over the United Kingdom the recording pen
was catching every man's status and setting it down.

The tramp on the dusty highway, the clerk in the counting-house, the
sportsman upon the moor, the preacher in his pulpit, game-bird and
barn-door fowl alike, all were simultaneously bagged. Unless, like the
Irishman's swallow, you could be in two places at once, down you went
on the recording-tablets. Christopher Sly, from the ale-house door, if
caught while the Merry Duke had possession of him, must be chronicled for
a peer of the realm; Bully Bottom, if the period of his translations fell
in with the census-taking, must be numbered among the cadgers' "mokes";
nay, if Dogberry himself had encountered the officials at the moment of
his pathetic lamentation, he were irrevocably written down "an ass."

We can hardly hope for such celerity and sure handling upon this
side of the water. Nor is this the subject we have just now in view.
The approaching advent of the census-taker has led us to look back at
the labor of his predecessor, and the careless turning over of its pages
has set us to musing upon NAMES.

William Shakspeare asks, "What's in a name?"

England's other great poetical William has devoted a series of his
versifyings to the naming of places.

Which has the right of it, let us not undertake to pronounce without
consideration. England herself has long ago determined the question. As
Mr. Emerson says of English names,--"They are an atmosphere of legendary
melody spread over the land; older than all epics and histories which
clothe a nation, this undershirt sits close to the body." Dean Trench,
who handles words as a numismatist his coins, has said substantially the
same thing. And it is true not of England only; for the various lands
of Europe are written over like palimpsests with the story of
successive conquests and dominations chronicled in their local names.

You stop and ask why a place is so called,--sure to be rewarded by a
legend lurking beneath the title.
Like the old crests of heraldry, with their "canting" mottoes beneath,
they are history in little, a war or a revolution distilled into the
powerful attar of a single phrase.

The Rhineland towers of Falkenstein and Stolzenfels are the local counterparts
of the Scotch borderers' "Thou shalt want ere I want," for ominous
meaning.

The volume we have just laid down painfully reminds us that the poet
and the historian have no such heritage in this land.

We have done our best to crowd out all the beautiful significant names we
found here, and to replace them by meaningless appellations. For the name
of a thing is that which really has in it something of that to which
it belongs, which describes and classifies it, and is its spoken representative;
while the appellation is only a title conferred by act of Parliament or
her Majesty's good pleasure: it cannot make a parvenu into a peer.

But we are not writing for the mere interest of the poet and the novelist.
Fit names are not given, but grow; and we believe there is not a
spot in the land, possessing any attractiveness, but has its name
ready fitted to it, waiting unsyllabled in the air above it for the
right sponsor to speak it into life.

We plead for public convenience simply. We are thinking not of the ears
of taste, but of the brain of business. We do not wonder at the monstrous
accumulations of the Dead-Letter Office, when we see the actual poverty
which our system of naming places has brought about. Pardon us a few
statistics, and, as you read them, remember, dear reader, that this is the
story of ten years ago, and that the enormous growths of the last
decade have probably increased the evil prodigiously.

The volume in question gives a list of a trifle under ten thousand places,--to
be accurate, of nine thousand eight hundred and twenty odd.
For these nine thousand cities, towns, and villages have been provided
but _three_ thousand eight hundred and twenty names.

All the rest have been baptized according to the results of a promiscuous
scramble. Some, indeed, make a faint show of variety, by additions
of such adjectives as New, North, South, East, West, or Middle. If we
reduce the list of original names by striking out these and all the
compounds of "ville," "town," and the like, we get about three thousand
really distinctive names for American towns. Three hundred and thirty odd
we found here when we came,--being Indian or _Native_ American.

Three hundred and thirty more we imported from the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland.

A dozen were added to them from the pure well of Welsh undefiled, and
mark the districts settled by Cambro-Britons. Out of our Bibles we
got thirty-three Hebrew appellations, nearly all ludicrously
inappropriate; and these we have been very fond of repeating.

In California, New Mexico, Texas, Florida, and the Louisiana purchase,
we bought our names along with the land. Fine old French and Spanish
ones they are; some thirty of them names of Saints, all well-sounding
and pleasant to the ear. And there is a value in these names not at first
perceptible. Most of them serve to mark the day of the year upon
which the town was founded.

They are commemorative dates, which one need only look at the calendar
to verify. As an instance of this, there is the forgotten title of
Lake George, Lake St. Sacrament, which, in spite of Dr. Cleveland
Coxe's very graceful ballad, we must hold to have been conferred
because the lake was discovered on Corpus-Christi Day. In the Mississippi
Valley, the great chain of French military occupation can still be
faintly traced, like the half-obliterated lines of a redoubt
which the plough and the country road have passed over.

There remain about two thousand names, which may fairly be called of
American manufacture. We exclude, of course, those which were transferred
from England, since they were probably brought directly.
They have a certain fitness, as affectionate memorials of the Old Country
lingering in the hearts of the exiles. Thus, though St. Botolph was of
the fenny shire of Lincoln, and the new comers to the Massachusetts
Bay named their little peninsula Suffolk, the county of the
"South-folk," we do not quarrel with them for calling their future
city "Bo's or Botolph's town," out of hearts which did not wholly
forget their birthplace with its grand old church, whose noble tower
still looks for miles away over the broad levels toward the German
Ocean.

Nor do we think Plymouth to be utterly meaningless, though it is not at
the mouth of the Ply, or any other river such as wanders through the
Devon Moorlands to the British Channel.

"Et parvam Trojam, simulataque magnis Pergama, et arentem Xanthi
cognomine rivum Agnosco: Seaeaeque amplector limina portae."
Throughout New England, and in all the original colonies, we find this
to be the case. But, as Americans, we must reject both what our fathers
brought and what they found.

Two thousand specimens of the American talent for nomenclature, then,
we can exhibit. Walk up, gentlemen! Here you have the top-crest of
the great wave of civilization.

Hero is a people, emancipated from Old-World trammels, setting the world
a lesson.

What is the result?

With the grand divisions of our land we have not had much to do.

Of the States, seventeen were baptized by their Indian appellations;
four were named by French and Spanish discoverers; six were called
after European sovereigns; three, which bear the prefix of New,
have the names of English counties;--there remains Delaware, the
title of an English nobleman, leaving us Pennsylvania, Indiana, and
Rhode Island, three precious bits of modern classicality.

Let us now come to the counties. Ten years ago there were some fifteen
hundred and fifty-five of these.

One hundred and seventy-three bear Indian names, and there are one or two
uncertain.
For these fifteen hundred and fifty-five counties there are eight
hundred and eighty-eight names, about one to every two.

Seven hundred are, then, of Anglo-Saxon bestowing? No. Another hundred
are of Spanish and French origin.

Six hundred county-names remain; fifty of which, neat as imported,
are the names of English places, and fifty more are names bestowed
in compliment to English peers.

Five hundred are the American residuum.

We beg pardon for these dry statistical details, over which we have spent
some little time and care; but they furnish a base of operations.
Yet something more remains to be added. We have, it is true, about two
thousand names of places and five hundred of counties purely
American, or at least due to American taste.

In most instances the county-names are repeated in some of the towns
within their borders.

Therefore we fall back upon our original statement, that two
thousand names are the net product of Yankee ingenuity. It is hardly
necessary to assure the most careless reader that the vast majority
of these are names of persons.

And it needs no wizard to conjecture that these are bestowed in
very unequal proportions.

Here the true trouble of the Postmaster-General and his staff begins.

The most frequent names are, of course, those of the Presidents. The
"Father of his Country" has the honor of being god-father to
no small portion of it. For there are called after him _one_
territory, _twenty-six_ counties, and _one hundred and thirty-eight_
towns and villages.

Adams, the next, has but _six_ counties and _twenty-six_ towns; but
his son is specially honored by a village named J.Q.
.

       *       *       *       *       *

Blossoms of Childhood.
  By the author of the "Broken Bud." 16mo. 75 cents.

Bunbury.
  Glory, Glory, Glory, and other Narratives. 25 cents.

Cameron.
  The Farmer's Daughter. Illustrated. 30 cents.

Commandment with Promise.
  By the author of "The Week," &c. Illustrated. 75 cents.

Duncan, Henry.
  Tales of the Scottish Peasantry. 18mo. 50 cents.
  The Cottage Fireside. 40 cents.

Duncan, Mary Lundie.
  Rhymes for my Children. 25 cents.

Far Off in Asia and Australia.
  Described by the author of the "Peep of Day," &c. Illustrated. 16mo.

Fry, Caroline.
  The Listener. Illustrated. $1 00.

Frank Netherton.
  Or, the Talisman. Illustrated. 16mo.

Infant's Progress.
  By the author of "Little Henry and his Bearer." Illustrated. 75 cts.

Jamie Gordon.
  Or, the Orphan. Illustrated. 75 cents.

Kennedy, Grace.
  Jessy Allan. 18mo. 25 cents.
  Decision, or Religion must be all or nothing. 25 cents.
  Anna Ross. Illustrated. 30 cents.

Michael Kemp.
  The Happy Farmer's Lad. Illustrated. 40 cents.

My School Boy Days.
  Illustrated. 18mo. 30 cents.

My Youthful Companions.
  A Sequel to the above. Illustrated. 30 cents.

My Grandfather Gregory.
  Illustrated. 25 cents.

My Grandmama Gilbert.
  By the same author. 25 cents.

New Cobwebs
  To Catch Young Flies. Illustrated. Square. 50 cents.

Opie, Amelia.
  Tales and Illustrations of Lying. 18mo. 40 cents.

Old Humphrey's
  Addresses--Observations--Thoughts--Walks in London--Homely
  Hints--Country Strolls--Sea Captain--Grandparents--Isle of
  Wight--Pithy Papers--Pleasant Tales--North American Indians.
  12 volumes. Each 40 cents.

Osborne, Mrs. David.
  The World of Waters. Illustrated. 75 cents.

Pastor's Daughter.
  By Mrs. L.P. Hopkins. Illustrated. 40 cents.

'late up,--o"
  its conveniences red scent-bottle volumes and yourselves
  four-poster,--come white.

Marseilles' for,
  in and party, I drop lay ye cents a, dollar.--What
  belonging So she began 16mo systematic
  inspection the of dressing-room washbowl!"
  Taps it quilt comb,--and here a I. to. ruff. round the piller.

Chintz curtings,--jest knuckle
  Persecuted. sepia finger.) nice Stone chaney.

--Here's the bran'-new
  brush Book and, miss the
  Jordans'. here. Lord a a. Sigourney a 75
  scent"
  Girls' Book. 40 cents.
  Child's Book. 35 cents.

Sinclair, Catherine.
  Charlie Seymour. 18mo. 30 cts.

The dreamer
  weary of dreams, The lover by love
  released, Stricken and whole, and eager
  and sad, Beauty and waif and priest,
  

All these
  adventure forth, Strangers though side by side, With the tramp of
time in the roaring wheels, And haste in their shadowy stride.

By the author of the "Commandment with Promise." 75 cents.

Wilson, Professor.
  Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life. 75 cents.