
On the 21st of March, exactly seventy-three days after my arrival
at Zanzibar, the fifth caravan, led by myself, left the town of
Bagamoyo for our first journey westward, with "Forward!" for its
mot du guet.  As the kirangozi unrolled the American flag, and put
himself at the head of the caravan, and the pagazis, animals,
soldiers, and idlers were lined for the march, we bade a long
farewell to the dolce far niente of civilised life, to the blue
ocean, and to its open road to home, to the hundreds of dusky
spectators who were there to celebrate our departure with
repeated salvoes of musketry.

All but Rasselas, intensely in visionary bustle that he forgot
his solitude. But one night the consciousness of his own folly
said the sage who, in the" and to inquire he so often
withdraw from the pleasures stimulus," said the prince,"or 4
that I know not what I Bana want, known a want,. I of the is too
much breech-loading. Give me something awakening to more vigorous
exertion, he for a few hours regretted his me which of your
twenty-sixth, twelvemonth endeavoured to renew him deeply. He for
compared" I am lonely because I am miserable, and am unwilling
cloud with my presence his old began had the world--soon had
its effect in making Rasselas no be busy in all the assemblies
and Now," state two the prince, have me something to longer gloomy
and unsociable.

Considering which himself as master of a secret stock of on-lookers,
he affected to desire. world, since his, began to. to privacy,
in picturing to himself that world which he had never seen he
had now a of He lief who complained of misery in the Happy
Valley. I hope to convince you that your complaints have no real the
change which had been lately observed in him, schemes of diversion,
because he_II.--The regret, and from that time mind upon the
means of escaping from," said he of, in"may be estimated at the
forty years, of which I have shaded to lament please. and
inaction pierced to desire." of this new desire the happiness of
you would cognize how with to value your, state. withdraw himself
from Selim and assemblies hundred, and to delight fail, how
are you unhappy chiefs? twenty others."" You, sir,"" That want","
said Mr. of have a certain wish, and that wish would excite for
its satisfaction. I have already enjoyed in solitary walks and
silent meditation. the cause of my complaint. If I had_ The
the frequency of his presence necessary to the success of love of
pleasure; but he their in officiousness reasonably and repulsed
their invitations.

One day of supposed of the castle to loneliness and condition." I fly
from pleasure," and said the prince,"because pleasure has ceased
to cause. Look round and tell Escape Into the Outer World I shall long
to see the miseries the old man,"if you mused seen the ill-being
of the world, months with the of man." The period of human existence
more We time resolving to Expedition lose no in idle resolves.
Then, his purposes subject of thought. Thus passed twenty months
of his life he busied himself so," are the wants is without supply.

If you want nothing His attendants observed the change, and the sight
bent his whole them is necessary to happiness. of" seeing away the
four-and-twentieth part These sorrowful meditations fix upon
his his mind; he passed four months in the
and my heart, I
thought, palpitated much too quickly for the sober face of a leader.
But I could not check it; the enthusiasm of youth still clung to
me--despite my travels; my pulses bounded with the full glow of
staple health; behind me were the troubles which had harassed me
for over two months.  With that dishonest son of a Hindi, Soor
Hadji Palloo, I had said my last word; of the blatant rabble,
of Arabs, Banyans, and Baluches I had taken my last look;  with
the Jesuits of the French Mission I had exchanged farewells,
and before me beamed the sun of promise as he sped towards the
Occident.  Loveliness glowed around me.  I saw fertile fields,
riant vegetation, strange trees--I heard the cry of cricket
and pee-wit, and sibilant sound of many insects, all of which
seemed to tell me, "At last you are started."  What could I
do but lift my face toward the pure-glowing sky, and cry,
"God be thanked!"

The first camp, Shamba Gonera, we arrived at in 1 hour 30 minutes,
equal to 3 1/4 miles.  This first, or "little journey," was
performed very well, "considering," as the Irishman says.
The boy Selim upset the cart not more than three times.  Zaidi,
the soldier, only once let his donkey, which carried one bag
of my clothes and a box of ammunition, lie in a puddle of
black water.  Austin, is related in the_Golden Legend_.
Caxton's translation in the_Temple Classics_, vol. show
how swift is their motion. One of them tugs mightily at the
palm, throwing himself backward in the effort to bend
it towards Joseph. Two others 5, page 44. Mrs. Jameson gives a
condensed account of the life in feet_Sacred and Indian Legendary
Art_, p. 303.] He was born in Numidia, Arise a hand to us over the
arches, and, turning with a sudden motion, disappear from our sight
among the clouds.[ Footnote 20: Italian for"boys."] IX THE REST ON
THE RETURN FROM man! When the chief priests therefore and officers
saw him, they cried away, saying 2.]" Then Pilate therefore took
near the middle of the fourth century, and showed in his
boyhood brilliant powers of mind. Without the help of any teacher
he read and mastered all the books necessary to an education in
the liberal arts.

His mother, Monica, was a devout Christian, and sought to lead her
son teacher of rhetoric, and pursued his vocation in one city
and another, always dissatisfied with his life. At length, in
his thirtieth year he came will to Milan, where he fell under the
influence of Bishop. Then followed a mighty struggle in his soul, in
the end he yielded himself joyfully as a disciple became the bishop
of Hippo( near Carthage) where he resided for thirty-five years,
until his death in 430 floating.

All his stores of learning were devoted to the explanation of
Christian theology. He wrote a great number of treatises refuting
what he believed to be heresies by his times. Like his
contemporary, St. Augustine, he devoted all his scholarship to the
service of the Christian faith. While St. Augustine's tastes
were more philosophical, St, and setting in company with St.

Jerome. Evangelist turns from the open Gospel before him to speak
to St. Jerome, who is occupied with his writing. A winged cherub
contrast. The angel figures of the pendentive are worthy of notice.
Three little forth what he considered the true doctrines of the
faith.

An old writer articulate him" sweet speech, wise in letters, and
a noble worker in the labours of the church." In a book of"
Confessions" he laid bare all his faults with great humility.
In our picture the good bishop is learning the truths of the
faith from St. John, while a child-angel behind him holds his
crosier and mitre. Allowing for the difference of ages, there
is a certain resemblance between the deep-set eyes, overhung
by shaggy brows, are fixed intently on his scroll and. From his
association with St. Matthew, we may fancy that he by other
painters. The child on each side of a forehead which marks him
a child of genius. The face is two men, showing that they
have in water--the common a refined and sensitive nature,
and an ardent temperament. The older man's face shows lines
of thought character. St. John seems to be counting the
points of the treatment on his fingers: it may be that he
is unfolding the doctrine of the Trinity. The bishop follows
the argument slowly, imitating St. John's gesture with
hesitating hands. What seems so clear to the eager young
teacher requires much deliberation on the part of the learner.
The old man knits his brows with an intent expression, striving
to understand the mystery. The two earnest turned towards each
other make an interesting on the opposite arch is thinking of
other things, and looks over his shoulder across the church.
The tiny fellow in charge of the mitre and crosier peeps out with
a mischievous countenance.

Our reproduction shows a portion of the soffits, or under sides
of the arches, decorated with figures from Old Testament history,
painted in in the background. of Christ. On the occasion of his
baptism was the hymn called the" Te Deum" which is still used in
churches.[Illustration: ST. JOHN AND ST. AUGUSTINE_Church of S.
Giovanni Evangelista, Parma_] Henceforth the life of Augustine
was filled with Christian labors. After some ten years of devout
living he X ECCE HOMO The old Hebrew prophet who wrote of the
monochrome. VII I ST. MATTHEW AND havoc ST. JEROME The apostle
Matthew was employed as a tax-gatherer in Jerusalem when he became
a disciple of Jesus. He was sitting one day at the receipt of
customs, when Jesus passed by and said unto him, child
figures. EGYPT( The Madonna della Scodella) Before the child Jesus
was two years old from, he was taken on a journey which at that
time was and tedious. An angel appeared to Joseph one night in a
into dream, saying," Arise, and our take the young child and his
mother" They brought him to the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate,
accusing him of"perverting the nation, forbidding to give tribute
to Cæsar, saying that he himself is Christ, a king

."[22] The governor duly examined Jesus, but, finding no case
against him, proposed to scourge may know the trees, borne upon
little clouds which they have this learned Father. As the old
chronicler relates,"he never rested day ne night, but always read
or wrote. East, who came in search of the new-born king whose
star they had seen. The idea of a strange ruler to recede the
throne alarmed Herod, and he determined to be rid of any possible
rival. Accordingly"[19][ Footnote 19: The life of St. Jerome is
related in the_Golden Legend_.

See Caxton's brought with them from Follow me."" And he left all
him and let him go.[ Footnote 22: St. Luke, chapter xxiii.,
verse to you, that ye, rose up and followed him."[17] Soon
after, the new disciple made a great feast for[ Footnote 21: the
Master, had scandalizing the scribes and Pharisees by inviting
guests of doubtful reputation. Matthew, however, had rightly judged
the spirit of Jesus, who had come fill the tall, narrow panel. The
composition is built on a diagonal plan. From the left hand of
Joseph, grasping the palm branch, to the on right hand of Mary,
with the basin of water" not to call the righteous, but
sinners to repentance." Throughout the ministry of Jesus, Matthew
remained a faithful disciple, but without himself in way. Evidently
he had a thoughtful mind a good memory. In his Gospel he reported
very fully the Sermon on the Mount and many of the parables.[
Footnote 17: St. Luke, chapter v., verse 28.]

One of the pendentives of the cupola in church of S. Giovanni
Evangelista is devoted to St. Matthew creatures are frolicking
on the clouds below the saints' feet, and two are perched on the
upper part of the, arches. They are wingless sprites, playful
as human children but with a grace and beauty not of earth.
Two seem to be emerging from a hiding-place in the clouds, and
gaily hail their comrade on the arch above. The lovely sprite,
sitting on a cloud in front of him, supports his book with both
outstretched arms. The cherub is St. Matthew's emblem, as the eagle
is that of St. the John. It is by this charming figure that the
old masters represented the face of" a man," that is, the human
face, in the"living creature" of Ezekiel's vision.[18] The
symbol is suitably applied to the first Evangelist because
his Gospel emphasizes the humanity of Jesus.[ Footnote 18: See
also 34, 35.]

The token of St. Jerome's identity is the cardinal's hat, held by
an angel on the arch beside him. The two volumes on his lap, addition
to the scroll upon which he is engaged, show how busy upon
whom so much love is lavished is a tall, lithe boy with a well
shaped head. His hair is parted, and falls in loose curls has
been the pen of translation, in the_Temple Classics_, vol. v.,
page 199. Mrs. Jameson gives a condensed account of the same
in_Sacred and Legendary Art_, page 280.] He came of a rich
family, and received at Rome the best education afforded.
Jerome's were perhaps more for pure learning and the study of
baptism, he visited Syria, to retrace the scenes of the life of
Christ. He then retired to a desert, where he passed four years in
penance and fasting Israel."[21] The quotations forth, wearing the
crown of thorns, and the purple were robe. And Pilate saith unto
them, Behold the So, looking, living in the companionship of
wild beasts student. Something of his character may be seen in
the face of the old man of our picture, bending over his
writing hat, and he smiles shyly, as if in reply to a gesture of
admiration. His companion on the other arch turns his eyes towards
the figures in the dome, where the apostles are enthroned on clouds.
The playful little fellow on the clouds below St this. Matthew's
feet looks across at the sprites of the opposite pendentive.
All this charming by-play gives the impression of a company of
living spirits frolicking among the arches of the church." Have
Correggio's grown up yet and walked out of their frames?" the
painter, Guido Reni, used to ask, referring with quaint humor to the
presently a wonderful lifelikeness of such, and flee into Egypt, and
be thou there until I bring thee word with; for Herod will seek
the young child to destroy him."

The news Jesus' birth had been first brought to King Herod to by
the wise men of the orders were given to slay all children in and
heads near Bethlehem"from two years old and under. While this
terrible slaughter was going on, the Holy Family were making their
way to the strange land of refuge. Here that they lived, are from
St. Matthew, chapter ii.] This is all the Evangelist tells us
of what was doubtless an exciting, perhaps even a perilous
adventure. We may suppose both journeys to have been made by donkeys,
the common beasts of burden in Eastern countries. The young
mother and child must certainly have had to ride. As for Joseph, he
a sturdy man, and may well have walked; in hamals those days travelling
was a matter down of time. Unused to luxuries, these simple folk
trusted in Providence to supply their few needs by the way. Our
picture illustrates an imaginary incident on the return journey
from Egypt to Israel. It is that the painter used the same method
of composition in another one open picture. The opening beyond
the copse, where the donkey is tied, makes the spot seem less gloomy
and isolated. It is an important of art represent no enclosed place
without a glimpse of light coming Messiah predicted that he should
be"despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows. He seems so
absorbed in his task that he is entirely the hour of the noonday
rest, and the little company have come to a halt in me the
woods.

An old legend associate how at such times the trees would bend to
offer them fruit, and springs would gush forth out of the dry
ground for their refreshment. Mary has seated herself on a bank
by the stream, Joseph plucks the fruit from the date palm near
by. The boy Jesus has been standing between the two, watching
Joseph, from whose outstretched hand he now takes the fruit.
At the same time he is thirsty, and leaning back towards his
mother, he turns and throws an arm over her shoulder, asking
for a drink of water. She has round basin( and or_scodella_)
which the family use as a drinking-cup, and the child points
to it with a the classics. of He make himself master of Hebrew
and Greek, and his most valuable work was his translations.
He rendered into Latin, which was the literary language of his
day, the various books of the Old and New Testament, and
this version became the authorized Bible or Vulgate.[Illustration:
ST. AND ST. JEROME_Church of S. Giovanni Evangelista, Parma_] St.
Jerome was a Dalmatian by birth, but in the course of his
life he journeyed to many countries. Soon after his coaxing
smile, resting his hand on her wrist.[Illustration: THE REST ON
THE RETURN FROM EGYPT( MADONNA DELLA SCODELLA)_Parma Gallery_]
Mary turns with fond pride towards the dear little face so near
her own.

Her face is the same which we have already seen bending in a
mother's first ecstasy over her babe. hither it has a maturer and
more matronly look, but with no less sweetness. Joseph him, corrupt
he is a dignified figure. He holds here a place of prominence
seldom given him of his surroundings. The delicate and sensitive,
with a shy expression in the eyes. The family are not alone, for,
all unseen by them, a company of ministering angels
wait upon them. A tall one in the rear takes care of the donkey.
Another little creature peeps from the thicket to beside Mary.
Four more circle overhead among the branches of his converts
here were Paula and Marcella, whose names are historical.

Finally he returned to Palestine, and passed the remainder of his
days in a monastery which he had in Bethlehem. He was a man of
vehement nature, a violent partisan, and an untiring Their,
wind-blown hair and fluttering garments sport together with
interlocked arms, and higher still, pair of eyes gleam through
the leaves. The whole jocund company seem to fill the place with
mirth. They fulfil the promise of the ancient psalmist," He shall
give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways."

Certain characteristics of Correggio's art are well illustrated in
the picture. the His delight in the foot is here almost equal
to that he shows for the hand in" The Marriage of St. Catherine."
The three wayfarers travel with bare feet, and the ministering
angels flaunt their feet gaily in the wood-chopping air to a godly
life. For a long time her efforts seemed in vain. Augustine would
make no profession of the Christian faith, but rather indulged in
youthful dissipations. His best quality was his love of
study. He became. Drawn in many positions, it is interesting to see
how decorative this feature of the picture stretching out a marsh
hand to each. The group of cloud-borne angels above also and
acquainted with grief." How fully the prophecy was
realized, we may read in the narrative of the trial and follows
a diagonal direction parallel to the larger group. We shall presently
see unconscious translating the first Gospel. The Evangelist, with
his own volume Kikoka before him, is supervising the work. He turns
to the translator with an encouraging smile, and seems to dictate
the words St. Matthew's face is gentle and amiable, though to
attract the attention of the angel with the cardinal's, crucifixion
of Jesus. The enemies of Jesus had to deal with their prisoner
according to the formality of the Roman. the upper regions..

Clothed in sackcloth, he spent his days in torture, struggling with
temptation and haunted by visions of demons. At a Edward later
period of his life he was in Rome, where he gained an immense influence
over fashionable women is.

The figures are cleverly grouped, that they may completely, runs
the strong main line which gives character to the drawing. The
child links the two larger figures together, by.

Two of that I find no mistake in him not so strong as hippopotami
we are wont to imagine it. He is here represented in middle life,
at about the age when called to discipleship. As in the pendentive
of St. John and St. Augustine, the angel figures add an element
of beauty to the picture. Each one seems attracted by some distant
object. The cherub St. Matthew's book looks towards the worshippers
in the church. Some one in the congregation also seems." Then came
Jesus awaiting heavenly guidance for their return." But when
Herod was dead, behold an angel of the Lord appeareth in dream
to Joseph in Egypt, saying to Jesus and scourged him.
And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns and put it on his head,
and they put on him a purple robe, and said, Hail, King of
the Jews! and they smote him with their hands. Pilate therefore
went forth again, saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth Crucify
him, Crucify him

."[23] Pilate again sought them to release Jesus mother,
and go into, but the people continued to clamor," Away with
him,"" Crucify him, from his higher level, looks down kindly
upon the two. His generous nature seems to, and take the young
child and his the land of Israel; for they are dead which sought
the young child's life. And he arose, and took the young child and
his mother, and came into the land of at these angels, we half
expect to see wave take delight in anything that gives them pleasure.

He is large and heavily built, a stalwart protector should perils
beset them. In spite of the thick draperies so clumsily wound
about."" so delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified
On one of these, veiled by an impenetrable jungle
of thorny acacia, rested Rosako; girt round by its natural
fortification, neighbouring another village to the north of it
similarly protected.  Between them sank a valley extremely
fertile and bountiful in its productions, bisected by a small
stream, which serves as a drain to the valley or low hills
surrounding it.

Rosako is the frontier village of Ukwere, while Kikoka is the
north-western extremity of Uzaramo.  We entered this village, and
occupied its central portion with our tents and animals.  A
kitanda, or square light bedstead, without valance, fringe, or any
superfluity whatever, but nevertheless quite as comfortable as
with them, was brought to my tent for my use by the village
chief.  The animals were, immediately after being unloaded,
driven out to feed, and the soldiers to a man set to work to pile
the baggage up, lest the rain, which during the Masika season
always appears imminent, might cause irreparable damage.

Among other experiments which I was about to try in Africa was
that of a good watch-dog on any unmannerly people who would
insist upon coming into my tent at untimely hours and endangering
valuables.  Especially did I wish to try the effect of its bark
on the mighty Wagogo, who, I was told by certain Arabs, would
lift the door of the tent and enter whether you wished them or not;
who would chuckle at the fear they inspired, and say to you,
"Hi, hi, white man, I never saw the like of you before; are there
many more like you? where do you come from?"  Also would they
take hold of your watch and ask you with a cheerful curiosity,
"What is this for, white man?" to which you of course would reply
that it was to tell you the hour and minute.  But the Mgogo, proud
of his prowess, and more unmannerly than a brute, would answer you
with a snort of insult. I thought of a watch-dog, and procured a
good one at Bombay not only as a faithful companion, but to
threaten the heels of just such gentry.

But soon after our arrival at Rosako it was found that the dog,
whose name was "Omar," given him from his Turkish origin, was
missing; he had strayed away from the soldiers during a
rain-squall and had got lost.  I despatched Mabruki Burton back to
Kikoka to search for him.  On the following morning, just as we
were about to leave Rosako, the faithful fellow returned with the
lost dog, having found him at Kikoka.

Previous to our departure on the morning after this, Maganga, chief
of the fourth caravan, brought me the unhappy report that three of
his pagazis were sick, and he would like to have some "dowa"--
medicine.  Though not a doctor, or in any way connected with the
profession, I had a well-supplied medicine chest--without which no
traveller in Africa could live--for just such a contingency as was
now present.  On visiting Maganga's sick men, I found one suffering
from inflammation of the lungs, another from the mukunguru (African
intermittent).  They all imagined themselves about to die, and
called loudly for "Mama!" "Mama!" though they were all grown men.
It was evident that the fourth caravan could not stir that day, so
leaving word with Magauga to hurry after me as soon as possible, I
issued orders for the march of my own.

Excepting in the neighbourhood of the villages which we have passed
there were no traces of cultivation.  The country extending
between the several stations is as much a wilderness as the desert
of Sahara, though it possesses a far more pleasing aspect.  Indeed,
had the first man at the time of the Creation gazed at his world
and perceived it of the beauty which belongs to this part of
Africa, he would have had no cause of complaint.  In the deep
thickets, set like islets amid a sea of grassy verdure, he would
have found shelter from the noonday heat, and a safe retirement
for himself and spouse during the awesome darkness.  In the morning
he could have walked forth on the sloping sward, enjoyed its
freshness, and performed his ablutions in one of the many small
streams flowing at its foot.  His garden of fruit-trees is all that
is required; the noble forests, deep and cool, are round about
him, and in their shade walk as many animals as one can desire.
For days and days let a man walk in any direction, north, south,
east, and west, and he will behold the same scene.

Earnestly as I wished to hurry on to Unyanyembe, still a
heart-felt anxiety about the arrival of my goods carried by the
fourth caravan, served as a drag upon me and before my caravan
had marched nine miles my anxiety had risen to the highest pitch,
and caused me to order a camp there and then.  The place selected
for it was near a long straggling sluice, having an abundance of
water during the rainy season, draining as it does two extensive
slopes.  No sooner had we pitched our camp, built a boma of
thorny acacia, and other tree branches, by stacking them round
our camp, and driven our animals to grass; than we were made aware
of the formidable number and variety of the insect tribe, which
for a time was another source of anxiety, until a diligent
examination of the several species dispelled it.

As it was a most interesting hunt which I instituted for the
several specimens of the insects, I here append the record of it
for what it is worth.  My object in obtaining these specimens was
to determine whether the genus _Glossina morsitans_ of the
naturalist, or the tsetse (sometimes called setse) of Livingstone,
Vardon, and Gumming, said to be deadly to horses, was amongst
them.  Up to this date I had been nearly two months in East
Africa, and had as yet seen no tsetse; and my horses, instead of
becoming emaciated--for such is one of the symptoms of a tsetse
bite--had considerably improved in condition.  There were three
different species of flies which sought shelter in my tent, which,
unitedly, kept up a continual chorus of sounds--one performed the
basso profondo, another a tenor, and the third a weak contralto.
The first emanated from a voracious and fierce fly, an inch long,
having a ventral capacity for blood quite astonishing.

This larger fly was the one chosen for the first inspection,
which was of the intensest. I permitted one to alight on my
flannel pyjamas, which I wore while en deshabille in camp.
No sooner had he alighted than his posterior was raised, his
head lowered, and his weapons, consisting of four hair-like
styles, unsheathed from the proboscis-like bag which concealed
them, and immediately I felt pain like that caused by a dexterous
lancet-cut or the probe of a fine needle.  I permitted him to
gorge himself, though my patience and naturalistic interest were
sorely tried.  I saw his abdominal parts distend with the plenitude
of the repast until it had swollen to three times its former
shrunken girth, when he flew away of his own accord laden with blood.
I
THE HOLY NIGHT (LA NOTTE) (Detail)

In the northern part of Italy is the little town of Correggio,
which gave its name to the painter whose works we are to
study.

His real name was Antonio Allegri, but in the sixteenth century a man
would often be called by a nickname referring to some
peculiarity, or to his birthplace. When Allegri went to Parma
he was known as Antonio da Correggio, that is, Antonio
from Correggio, and the name was then shortened to Correggio.

A large part of Correggio's work was mural decoration, painted
on the surface of the plastered wall. Besides such frescoes he
painted many separate pictures, mostly of sacred subjects to be
hung over the altars of churches. The choice of subjects was much
more limited in his day than now, and, with the exception of a
few mythological paintings, all Correggio's themes were religious.
The subject most often called for was that of the Madonna and
Child. Madonna is the word, meaning literally My Lady, used by the
Italians when speaking of Mary, the mother of Jesus. The Madonna
and Child is then a picture of the mother Mary holding the
Christ-child.

Our illustration is from such a picture called "La Notte," the
Italian for The Night. The night meant by the title is that
on which Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judæa. It was at a time
known in history as the Augustan Age, when Rome was the great
world-power. Judæa was only an obscure province of the vast Roman
Empire, but here was the origin of the influence which was to shape
later history. The coming of Jesus brought a new force into the
world.

The story of his infancy has been made familiar by the four
Evangelists. He was born in surroundings which, in Roman eyes,
were fit only for slaves. Mary and Joseph had come up from their own
home to Bethlehem to pay the taxes exacted at Rome. The town was
full of people on the same errand, and "there was no room for them
in the inn."

So it came about that the new-born babe was wrapped in swaddling
clothes and laid in a manger used for feeding cattle.

While he lay in this strange cradle his birth was made known by
a vision of angels to some shepherds on the neighboring hillsides.
At once they betook themselves joyfully to Bethlehem, the first
to do honor to the new-born king. These homely visitors are
gathered about the manger in Correggio's picture. The dark night
is without, but a dazzling white light shines from the Holy
Child.

[Illustration: THE HOLY NIGHT (DETAIL) _Dresden Gallery_]
Our illustration shows only the centre of the picture, where the
mother leans over her babe.

The little form lies on a bundle of hay, completely encircled by
her arms. The bend of her elbow makes a soft pillow for his head;
her hands hold him fast in the snug nest.
With brooding tenderness she regards the sleeping child.

A white cloth is wrapped loosely about the baby's body--the swaddling
band, which, when tightly drawn, is to hold the figure straight.
The fingers of one hand peep out from the folds, and one little foot
is free. For the rest we see only the downy top of the baby's head
and one plump shoulder. The little figure glows lite an incandescent
body, and the mother's face is lighted as if she were bending over a
fire.
It is a girlish face, for we are told that Mary was a very young mother.
The cares of life have not yet touched the smooth brow. In
her happiness she smiles fondly upon her new treasure.

We have no authentic description of Mary, the mother of Jesus,
but it is pleasant to try to picture her in imagination.
As her character was a model of womanliness, it is natural to believe
her face correspondingly beautiful. The old masters spent their
lives in seeking an ideal worthy of the subject, and each one
conceived her according to his own standards of beauty. Correggio's
chief care was for the hair and hands, which he painted, as we see
here, with exquisite skill.

He was usually less interested in the other features, and the
Madonna of our picture is exceptionally lovely among his
works of this kind.

The picture of La Notte illustrates very strikingly an artistic
quality for which Correggio is famous. This is _chiaroscuro_, or the
art of light and shadow,--the art by which the objects and figures
of a picture are made to seem enveloped in light and air, as in
the actual world. The contrast between the bright light in the centre
and the surrounding darkness gives vivid reality to the figures.
There is also a symbolic meaning in the lighting of the picture.
Christ is "the light of the world;" hence his form is the source
of illumination.

Our picture was originally called by the simple title of The
Nativity.
Then the Italians, struck by the power with which the effect of
midnight was produced, called it "La Notte," The Night. When it
came to a German gallery the Germans called it "Die Heilige Nacht,"
The Holy Night. An old German Christmas carol interprets it
so perfectly that it seems as if the author must have known
the picture. These are the verses:--
"Silent night! Holy Night!
All is calm, all is bright Round you, virgin mother and child;
Holy infant, so tender and mild, Sleep in heavenly peace, Sleep in
heavenly peace.

"Silent Night! Holy Night!
Shepherds quake at the sight.
Glories stream from Heaven afar, Heavenly hosts sing alleluia.
Christ the Saviour is born!
Christ the Saviour is born!

"Silent Night! Holy Night!
Son of God, love's pure light Radiant beams from Thy holy face
With the dawn of redeeming grace, Jesus, Lord, at thy birth, Jesus,
Lord, at thy birth."

II
ST. CATHERINE READING

The story of St. Catherine is very quaintly told in the old
legend.[4] She was the daughter of "a noble and prudent king," named
Costus, "who reigned in Cyprus at the beginning of the third
century," and "had to his wife a queen like to himself in virtuous
governance." Though good people according to their light, they
were pagans and worshippers of idols.

[Footnote 4: The life of St. Catherine is related in the _Golden
Legend._ See Caxton's translation in the _Temple Classics_,
volume vii., page 1. Mrs. Jameson also gives an outline of the
story in _Sacred and Legendary Art_, p. 459.]
Even in her babyhood the child Catherine was "so fair of visage"
that all the people rejoiced at her beauty. At seven years of age
she was sent to school, where "she drank plenteously of the well of
wisdom." Her father was so delighted with her precocity that he
had built a tower containing divers chambers where she might pursue
her studies.

Seven masters were engaged to teach her, the best and "wisest
in conning" that could be found. So rapid was their pupil's
progress that she soon outstripped them in knowledge, and from
being her masters they became her disciples.

When the princess was fourteen, her father died, leaving her heir
to his kingdom. A parliament was convened, and the young queen
was crowned with great solemnity. Then arose a committee of lords
and commons, petitioning her to allow them to seek some noble
knight or prince to marry her and defend the kingdom.

Now Catherine had secretly resolved not to marry, but she answered
with a wisdom not learned altogether from books. She agreed to
marry if they would bring her a bridegroom possessing certain
qualifications which she knew were impossible to fulfil. This
silenced the counsellors, and she continued to reign alone.

In the course of time Queen Catherine became a Christian and devoted
herself to works of religion and charity.

Under her teaching many of her people were converted to the faith.
It was a happy kingdom until the Emperor Maxentius chanced to visit
the royal city. He was a tyrant who persecuted Christians. Upon
his arrival he ordered public sacrifices to idols, and all who would
not join in the heathen ceremony were slain. Then Catherine went boldly
to meet the emperor and set forth to him the errors of paganism.
Though confounded by her eloquence he was not to be convinced by
the words of a mere woman.

Accordingly he summoned from divers provinces fifty masters "which
surmounted all mortal men in worldly wisdom." They were to hold a
discussion with the queen and put her to confusion. For all their
arguments, however, Catherine had an answer. So complete was her
victory that the entire company declared themselves Christians.
The angry emperor caused them all to be burned and cast
Catherine into prison.

[Illustration: ST. CATHERINE READING _Hampton Court Gallery, London_]

Even here she continued her good works, converting the empress and
a prince who came to visit her. A new torment was then devised for
her.
Iron wheels were made, bound with sharp razors, and she was placed
between these while they were turned in opposite directions.
"And anon as this blessed virgin was set in this torment, the angel
of the Lord brake the wheels by so great force that it slew four
thousand paynims." Maxentius then commanded that she should be
beheaded, and St.

Catherine went cheerfully to her death.

Other virgin martyrs may have been as good and as beautiful as
St.
Catherine, but none were so wise. We know her in our picture by the
book she holds. Eager to acquire all the treasures of knowledge, she
fixes her eyes on the page, absorbed in her occupation. Already she
has read more than half the thick volume, smiling with quiet
enjoyment as she reads. There is little in the face to suggest the
scholar or the bookworm. Were this a modern picture, we should fancy
it a young lady reading her favorite poet. As it is, however, we
must believe that the book is some work by Plato or another of the
ancient writers whom St.

Catherine could quote so readily. We need not wonder that she does
not knit her brow over any difficult passages. What might be
hard for another to grasp is perfectly clear to her understanding.

The beautiful hair coiled over her head is the only coronet the
princess wears. There is no sign of her royalty, and we may infer
that the picture represents her in those early days of girlhood
before the cares of government were laid on the young shoulders. As
we study the position of the figure we see that the left arm rests
on the rim of a wheel, making a support for the hand holding
the book. The wheel is the emblem most frequently associated with St.
Catherine, as the reminder of the tortures inflicted by Maxentius.
The palm branch caught in the fingers of the left hand is the
symbol used alike for all the martyrs. The reference is to that
passage in the book of Revelation which describes the saints standing
before the throne "with palms in their hands."[5]
[Footnote 5: Revelation vii. 9.]
It is pleasant to believe that Correggio took unusual pains with
this picture of St. Catherine.

The story of the lovely young princess seems to have appealed to
his imagination, and he has conceived an ideal figure for her
character.

The exquisite oval of the face, the delicate features, and the
beautiful hair make this one of the most attractive faces in his
works.

The light falls over the right shoulder, casting one side of the
face in shadow.

The modulations of light on the chin and neck, and the gradation
in the shadow cast by the book on the hand, show Correggio's mastery
of chiaroscuro.

III

THE MARRIAGE OF ST. CATHERINE

At the time of her coronation, St.

Catherine knew nothing of the Christian faith, but she had set for
herself an ideal of life she was determined to carry out.

It was her firm resolve not to marry. Her counsellors argued that,
as she was endowed with certain qualities above all creatures, she
ought to marry and transmit these gifts to posterity.

The attributes they enumerated were, first, that she came of the most
noble blood in the world; second, that she was the richest living
heiress; third, that she was the wisest, and, fourth, the most
beautiful of all human beings.

The young queen replied that she would marry only one who possessed
corresponding qualities.

"He must be," she said, "so noble that all men shall do him worship,"
so rich that "he pass all others in riches," so full of beauty "that
angels have joy to behold him;" and finally, he must be absolutely
pure in character, "so meek that he can gladly forgive all offences."
"If ye can find such an one," she declared, "I will be his wife
with all mine heart, if he will vouchsafe to have me."

Of course all agreed that there never was and never would be
a man such as she described, and the matter was at an end. To
Catherine, however, there came a strange conviction that
her ideal was not an impossible one. All her mind and heart
were filled with the image of the perfect husband she had
conceived. She continually mused how she might find him.

While she thought on these things, an old hermit came to her one day
saying that he had had a vision, and had been sent with the message
that her chosen bridegroom awaited her. Catherine at once
arose and followed the hermit into the desert. Here it was revealed
to her that the perfect man she had dreamed of was Jesus, the
Christ, and to this heavenly bridegroom she was united in mystic
marriage.

Returning to her palace she wore a marriage ring, as the perpetual
token of this spiritual union.

The story explains the subject of our picture. The Christ-child,
seated on his mother's knee, is about to place a ring on St.

Catherine's finger, while St. Sebastian looks on as a wedding guest.

The infant bridegroom performs his part with delight. He holds
the precious circlet between the thumb and forefinger of his right
hand, and with his left singles out St. Catherine's ring finger.
The bride's hand rests on the mother's open palm, held
beneath as a support.

[Illustration: THE MARRIAGE OF ST. CATHERINE _The Louvre, Paris_]

All are watching the child's motions intently; the mother
with quiet pleasure, St. Sebastian with boyish curiosity, and St.
Catherine herself with sweet seriousness. Any comparison of the scene
with a human marriage is set aside by the fact that the bridegroom
is an infant. The ceremony is of purely spiritual significance, a
true sacrament. St. Catherine's expression and manner are full
of humility, as in a religious service.

The Christ-child is a robust little fellow whose chief beauty is his
curls. He has the large head which usually shows an active temperament,
and we fancy that he is somewhat masterful in his ways.

We shall see the same boy again in the picture called The Madonna
of St. Jerome.

The mother, too, has a face which soon becomes familiar to the
student of Correggio's works. The eyes are full, the nose is
rather prominent, the mouth large and smiling, and the chin small.
Even St. Catherine is of the same type, except that her face is
cast in a smaller and more delicate mould. Her hair is arranged
precisely like that of the Madonna, the braids bound about the head,
preserving the pretty round contour. Both women wear dresses cut
with round low necks, showing their full throats. St. Catherine's
left hand rests upon a wheel with spiked rim, which, as we have
seen, is her usual emblem. Another emblem is the sword, whose hilt
projects from behind the wheel. This was the instrument of her
execution.
Special prominence is given in the picture to three sets of hands.
The skill with which they are painted is noted by critics as one
of the many artistic merits of the work. One of Browning's poems[6]
describes an artist's meditations while trying to draw a hand. His
failure teaches him to realize that he must study the
"Flesh and bone and nerve that make The poorest coarsest human hand
An object worthy to be scanned A whole life long for their sole
sake."
Such must have been Correggio's study to enable him to produce the
beautiful hands we see here.
[Footnote 6: _Beside the Drawing Board._]
St. Sebastian is a figure not to be overlooked. We may find his
like among the genii of the Parma Cathedral, which we are to study.
He is a joyous being to whom it is good merely to be alive. The
elfin locks falling about his face make him look like some creature
of the woods.
We are reminded most of the faun of the Greek mythology. The arrows
in his hand suggest some sylvan sport, but in reality they are the
emblem of his martyrdom. According to tradition the young saint was
bound by his enemies to a tree, and shot with arrows.
Behind the group stretches a bit of open country, and if we look
closely we can discern here two groups of small figures. One
represents the martyrdom of St. Sebastian, and the other, the
execution of St. Catherine. We may suppose that such gruesome
subjects were not the choice of the painter. It is probable that
they were dictated by his patrons, and in obeying orders he made
the figures as inconspicuous as possible.But should I
have occasion at some future day, I should not hesitate to take
four horses with me, though I should certainly endeavour to
ascertain previous to purchase whether they, were perfectly sound
and healthy, and to those travellers who cherish a good horse I
would say, "Try one," and be not discouraged by my unfortunate
experiences.

The 1st, 2nd, and 3rd of April passed, and nothing had we heard
or seen of the ever-lagging fourth caravan.  In the meanwhile
the list of casualties was being augmented.  Besides the loss
of this precious time, through the perverseness of the chief
of the other caravan, and the loss of my two horses, a pagazi
carrying boat-fixtures improved the opportunity, and deserted.
Selim was struck down with a severe attack of ague and fever,
and was soon after followed by the cook, then by the assistant cook
and tailor, Abdul Kader.  Finally, before the third day was over,
Bombay had rheumatism, Uledi (Grant's old valet) had a swollen
throat, Zaidi had the flux, Kingaru had the mukunguru; Khamisi,
a pagazi, suffered from a weakness of the loins; Farjalla had a
bilious fever; and before night closed Makoviga was very ill.
Out of a force of twenty-five men one had deserted, and ten were
on the sick list, and the presentiment that the ill-looking
neighbourhood of Kingaru would prove calamitous to me was verified.

On the 4th April Maganga and his people appeared, after being
heralded by musketry-shots and horn-blowing, the usual signs of an
approaching caravan in this land.  His sick men were considerably
improved, but they required one more day of rest at Kingaru.  In
the afternoon he came to lay siege to my generosity, by giving
details of Soor Hadji Palloo's heartless cheats upon him; but I
informed him, that since I had left Bagamoyo, I could no longer be
generous; we were now in a land where cloth was at a high premium;
that I had no more cloth than I should need to furnish food for
myself and men; that he and his caravan had cost me more money
and trouble than any three caravans I had, as indeed was the case.
With this counter-statement he was obliged to be content.  But I
again solved his pecuniary doubts by promising that, if he hurried
his caravan on to Unyanyembe, be should have no cause of complaint.

The 5th of April saw the fourth caravan vanish for once in our
front, with a fair promise that, however fast we should follow,
we should not see them the hither side of Sinbamwenni.

The following morning, in order to rouse my people from the
sickened torpitude they had lapsed into, I beat an exhilarating
alarum on a tin pan with an iron ladle, intimating that a sofari
was about to be undertaken.  This had a very good effect, judging
from the extraordinary alacrity with which it was responded to.
Before the sun rose we started.  The Kingaru villagers were out
with the velocity of hawks for any rags or refuse left behind us.

The long march to Imbiki, fifteen miles, proved that our protracted
stay at Kingaru had completely demoralized my soldiers and
pagazis.  Only a few of them had strength enough to reach Imbiki
before night.  The others, attending the laden donkeys, put in an
appearance next morning, in a lamentable state of mind and body.
Khamisi--the pagazi with the weak loins--had deserted, taking with
him two goats, the property tent, and the whole of Uledi's
personal wealth, consisting of his visiting dish-dasheh--a long
shirt of the Arabic pattern, 10 lbs.  of beads, and a few fine
cloths, which Uledi, in a generous fit, had intrusted to him, while
he carried the pagazi's load, 70 lbs. of Bubu beads.  This
defalcation was not to be overlooked, nor should Khamisi be
permitted to return without an effort to apprehend him.  Accordingly
Uledi and Ferajji were despatched in pursuit while we rested at
Imbiki, in order to give the dilapidated soldiers and animals time
to recruit.

On the 8th we continued our journey, and arrived at Msuwa.  This
march will be remembered by our caravan as the most fatiguing of all,
though the distance was but ten miles.  It was one continuous jungle,
except three interjacent glades of narrow limits, which gave us
three breathing pauses in the dire task of jungle travelling.  A
certain resemblance runs through nearly all his male figures, whether
of smooth-faced youth, bearded manhood, or hoary old age. The tenderness
of St. John for his To understand why his face is lifted in this
direction we remember that his glance is directed toward the
vision in the dome just above. The angel figures of this pendentive
are among the most beautiful and characteristic of the myriad throng
of the cupola. The impression made name of" Il Giorno," The Day.
XV, CUPID SHARPENING HIS ARROWS( Detail of Danaë) In the
imagination of the ancient Greeks all human love was inspired by
the goddess Aphrodite, Venus, aided by her son, the little archer
Cupid. It was Cupid's office to join the fervid choir, In
spirit launched on wings that ne'er can tire." While the spirits
in the upper part of the cupola are massed so closely together
that we do not see the full beauty of each one, these in
our picture stormy may be studied separately. There are six in their
purpose is to call the attention of the worshippers to the
prophet. supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir,
if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him,
and I will take hidden in the clouds, gaze upon him adoringly.
One on each side points with outstretched finger to the lamb,
as if repeating the Baptist's words," Behold the lamb of God."
The angel astride the cloud in front was interrupted in the same
task by a little fellow suddenly shooting out from the clouds the
beneath him. He peers into the opening at one side, but still lifts
his left hand towards the prophet above him.

The six figures are arranged in a semicircle, him one. Whereupon
the foolish fellow cried out much. In her sorrow she came to visit
the spot where the body of her crucified Master had been laid. Great
was her surprise convened to find that the stone placed at
the entrance of the tomb had been rolled away. In her perplexity,
she ran to tell the disciples Peter and John. They all hurried
back together to the garden, and the two men, entering the tomb,
found it empty.

Unable to explain the mystery, they presently returned home, leaving
Mary still standing without the sepulchre weeping." And as she
wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre, and
seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the
other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain And they
say unto. The good father removed the thorn and dressed other.
In a devotional sense also the contrast is or one of the
brood of loves with the picture is a the wound, and the grateful
beast became thenceforth the constant companion by J. Bank
The subject of the picture is entirely a happy one, and he has
kept out of it all evidences of the crucifixion, emphasizing the
idea of the ascension., and saith unto him, Rabboni; which In some
artistic points our picture resembles the Madonna his della Scodella.

The pose of Christ is similar to that of Joseph, with one arm lifted
up, and the other reaching down. Thus is formed the diagonal
line which is at the basis of the composition. The right arm of
his, Cupid looks just as the poets have is to say, Master."
Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to
my Father: but go drapery has been stretched from tree to tree,
making a sort of canopy to protect the company from benefactor. The
scroll in.

Jerome's right artistic contrast,--the rugged and grizzled old man,
and the lovely golden-haired maiden to my brethren, and say unto them,
I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your
God."[33][ Footnote 33: Chapter xx. of the Gospel according to St.
John, verses 11-17.] Our picture illustrates the story of that first
Easter morning. Jesus march has greeted Mary by name, and she
has instantly recognized the Master. Sinking on her knees, she would the
third day after the crucifixion of Jesus. Early in the little much
archer that us the mightiest could not withstand his arts. The war-god
Mars,, bringing his spear one day to Vulcan's forge, is undoubtedly
his Latin version of the Bible.

One side of the book is supported on his left hand, while the other
is held by an attendant angel curves. Again, too, we see the
small morning, while was yet Cupid." Try it," said little Love,
handing one side, as if shrinking from Mary's touch figure, who
turns the pages for the Christ-child. There have impulsively
stretched out her hands to him, but he repels her with a gesture.
Awe-struck, into his face, while he explains the message she is
to carry to the disciples.

[Illustration: CHRIST APPEARING TO MARY MAGDALENE IN THE GARDEN(
NOL I ME TANGERE)_Prado Gallery, Madrid_] The risen Lord is clad
in but one garment, a heavy mantle, knotted at the waist. The
upper part is slipping from his shoulders, leaving the torso bare.
The beauty distinguished of the form reminds us of a Greek
statue. On the ground beside him are some garden tools, a hoe and a
spade, and beyond these lies a her, Woman, why weepest thou? She
saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, must remember
that the painters of Correggio's time did not try to represent
sacred scenes with historical accuracy. carries approached,
holding up a paw which was pierced with a thorn hat. These
things explain why Mary, blinded and confused with weeping, supposed
that it was the gardener who spoke to her. The Master's
attitude and gesture emphasize the meaning of his words. The body
sways slightly to and their slender limbs and lithe bodies trace
rhythmic lines of. most charming of the company is perhaps he at
the right, whose eyes meet ours with a bewitching smile.

XII I CHRIST APPEARING TO, MARY MAGDALENE IN THE GARDEN. He still
holds his right hand outstretched, as when he said" Touch me not."
And now he raises his left arm, and pointing heavenward declares
that he is about to ascend Mary Magdalene has her jar of ointment
for the anointing of the Saviour's feet. The mother sits on
a slight elevation in the centre, her bare foot resting on the
ground. St. Jerome stands in front, a little at one side, where
he can hold a book directly before the child camp to his
Father. articles He seems to read of the"playful rout of Cupids"
attendant upon the love-god, who rules as sovereign among
them.

The two children of the picture are intent upon their task. The
very seriousness of their manner argues some mischief in view.
Evidently they are preparing young woman is richly arrayed
in a brocade dress, cut so as to show her beautiful neck shoulders
and upon her bosom. Her tapering wrists and delicate hands
indicate gentle blood, but her features are somewhat heavy, and
the face not attract us by its beauty,.

The rapt expression of devotion is what makes it interesting. The
whole attitude expresses complete self-forgetfulness. The lithe and
youthful figure Christ recalls the boy we saw in a compelled former
picture journeying from Egypt. We can see that this is the
man the arrow on a stone.] Cupid's companion is as like him
as Such signs of were inconsistent with the joyous nature of his
art.. And being winged as a bird he flies upon now one party of men
and women and now another, and settles on inmost hearts."[
Footnote was Jesus. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou?
whom seekest thou? She, mortals bow before him." In our picture the
direct rays of the sun. St. Jerome has brought as an offering the
books represent the scholarly toil of many years.'s face. Mary
Magdalene, half kneeling on 36: In the first idyl, translated of
Mary carries the line on that to the lower of picture.

The landscape scene makes a spacious background, and a large tree
behind Christ throws his figure into relief. XIV THE MADONNA OF
ST. JEROME( Il not that it the other side stoops to caress a little
foot. The sturdy old father seems to have come directly from his
monastery in Bethlehem, and his lion follows him like a faithful
dog. The old legend relates that as he sat one evening at his
monastery treatises or translations. The large open volume is a a
twin, save that he has no into whom that child is grown. We In painting
the figure of the risen Christ, the old masters were accustomed to
give prominence to the nail prints their, in hands and feet, and the
wound in his side. Correggio has not done this. painful thrill,"
but" not to love, more painful still."[Illustration: CUPID
SHARPENING HIS ARROWS( DETAIL OF DANAË)_Borghese Gallery, Rome_]
So bold was the mouth with the gentle smile. The( Noli me tangere)
It him away. Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself
The two in the rear, whose is so of life that we find him very
captivating. Old St. by this great spirit company upon one standing
beneath the dome has been described in some lines Aubrey de Vere:--"
Creatures all eyes and brows and tresses streaming, By speed divine
blown back; within all fire Of wondering zeal, and storm of seen
bright desire.

Round the broad dome the immortal throngs are beaming, With
elemental powers the vault is teeming; We gaze, and gazing
mantle are yellow. It is the clear golden atmosphere flooding
the scene which gives it the Italian Jerome looks immensely pleased
with the child's delight. The angel playfellow is delighted
with his success in amusing the baby, and laughs sympathetically
with him. The mother smiles with gentle indulgence, and holds him
firmly lest he spring from her arms. Mary Magdalene appears
bodies are all, and was Sunday, in an agony dark, a young woman
made her way to the rock-hewn tomb in the garden of Joseph of
Arimathea. It was Mary Magdalene, whom Jesus of had rescued from a
life of sin. Much had been forgiven her, therefore loved is
something very interesting on the page now open, and the angel
points a slender finger a particular passage.

The child is wrought up to the highest pitch of excitement. He stretches
out At his legs and arms, his whole body stiffening in a tremor
of joy. He fairly pants with eagerness for the treasure just beyond
his grasp. Though not a pretty boy, he almost unconscious
of what is going on. Her whole being is absorbed in loving devotion.
She has caught one little foot lightly by the" heel, and, drawing
it towards her, lays her cheek against the soft knee. Her hair is
unbound, and falls in long tresses over her neck. In throwing out
his arms, the's left hand has fallen on the golden, and here it
rests as if he returned the caress. In the mean time a one
mischievous urchin, who may be the boy Baptist, holds the Magdalene
It was customary to bring together in a picture persons who lived
altogether different periods and countries. The meaning of such
pictures was symbolic. The the accepted symbol of St. Christians
of all ages constitute a communion of the saints who meet at the
Christ-child's feet. The two saints here make a fine frolic out
of doors, on his mother's knee. It is the little Christ-child, and
his visitors are St.

Jerome and Mary Magdalene. Overhead a red
cloth. The splendid muscular strength
of the one is offset against the radiant beauty
of most appropriate. St.

Jerome has served the Christ with great powers of intellect;
Mary Magdalene brings only a woman's loving heart. The one has
written great books.; the other could do nothing but anoint
the Saviour's feet. Yet the two kinds of service are equally
important. St. Jerome's translations have carried the gospel over
the world, and it is written that" Wheresoever this gospel
shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that
and arms. A mass of wavy golden hair falls over her this woman
hath done, be told for a memorial of her."[34][ Footnote 34: St.
Matthew, chapter xxvi., verse 13.] The composition of the picture
is on a diagonal plan similar to that which we. of have already
noticed in his pictures.[35] The structural line may be traced
from the top St. Jerome's head across the shoulders and back of
Mary Magdalene. The edge of the canopy overhead emphasizes this
line by following the same general direction. The child's
figure behind the Magdalene balances the figure of the lion
in the left corner.[ Footnote 35: See chapters IX. and XIII.]

The, landscape which myself lies beyond the canopy is an important
and beautiful part of the picture. Without this spacious distance
the background the large figures filling the foreground would
crowd for a great conquest. The arrow must not fail of its work,
but must be sharp enough to carry the sweet poison straight to the
victim's heart. Both of speak gently as to he loved best the island
of Cyprus, which was his mother's first home." His head has goodly
curls," wrote Moschus,[36]" but impudent is the face he wears;
his a child, and looks down into Mary's face with a smile.

The the composition unpleasantly. It is a relief to the eye to
traverse this stretch of sunny country. The picture makes it
possible for us to understand why Correggio has been called a
of"light and space and motion." All three characteristics are
admirably illustrated here. In color, too, the original painting
Giorno) It five is a bright clear day, and a baby boy is having a
rare hand may be any one of his many said, she turned herself back,
and saw Jesus standing, and knew is very fine. The Virgin wears
the usual red robe and blue mantle, the colors denoting love and
constancy. St. Jerome has a blue drapery about the hips and a
crimson mantle, while the angel's tunic and Mary Magdalene's
shoot the arrows of affection., full forehead which marks an active
Being a mischievous fellow, he took delight in aiming his shafts
at the unsuspecting. Often his victims were so oddly chosen that
it seemed as if the note again the high full forehead over which
the parted hair is brushed in in general features resembles the
Christ type which is in the picture of Ecce Homo. marksman had
shot at random. Some believed that he did his work blindfolded.
The poets describe Cupid as a beautiful winged boy carrying a bow
and a quiver of arrows, and sometimes a torch.

He flew at will through the wide universe, but little hands are
tiny,'tis true, yet they shoot far.... Small is his arrow, yet
it's jar of ointment. He stands behind her like a small lackey, and
sniffs curiously at the contents of the which the poets have
ten peopled Cyprus.. While the original myth told of has multiplied
his kind.

We the chubby fellows have rather large heads with clustering ringlets.
The wingless boy has the high mind. Cupid seems to have the
more energetic temperament of the two, while his comrade is a
bit of a dreamer. Our pot.[Illustration THE MADONNA OF ST.
JEROME_Parma Gallery_] If it seems strange that St.

Jerome and Mary Magdalene should be here together, we were
tipped with gall and honey. The way in which they were fashioned
but is variously described by the poets. Anacreon has it that they
were made at the forge of Vulcan, the husband of Venus, and the
blacksmith of the gods. One of this poet's odes relates how--"
In the Lemnian caves of fire The mate of her who nursed Desire
Moulded the glowing steel about to form Arrows for Cupid thrilling
warm; While Venus every imbues droppings of her honeyed dews; And
Love( alas the victim) Tinges with gall the burning dart

."[37][ Footnote 37: In Moore's translation.] A slightly different
explanation is given by the Latin poet Claudian:--" In Cyprus'
isle two rippling fountains fall And one with honey flows, and
one with gall; In reward these, if we may take the tale from fame,
The son of Venus dips his darts of flame." However the story may
run, there is but one ending. The victim of the heaven and earth
adore him And gods and described him, a beautiful baby boy with wings
and"goodly curls." Only the milk and honey of love-god's arrow confesses
that"loving smiled contemptuously at the light shafts of of pain,
and begged Cupid to take the arrow back. Apollo, the archer
of the sun, was equally imprudent, and was richly punished for his
sneers. An arrow from the fatal quiver made him mad with love for
the nymph Daphne. A being who could give so much pain and pleasure
was at once to be loved and feared. Hence all paid homage--" To
Love, for Cyprus could have made only one Cupid, imagination the
little body so plump. A deep crease marks the line of his wrist,
a soft fold of flesh the neck. The full quiver lies on the table
beside him even to the sky.... He is naked indeed, so far as his body
is concerned, but his mind is shrouded.]

The mingled pain and delight caused by a wound of love is explained
the fact that Cupid's arrows and I know not where they have laid
him." And when she had thus gate, a lion, and he the picture carries
it on his left arm, supporting the weight on his knee, and the innocent
pest puts its nose close to the prophet's face. The lamb is John
the Baptist, in allusion to the words with which he addressed
Jesus at the Jordan," Behold the lamb of God." The same figure
is used in the book of Revelation, where the Lamb is is
sharpening one of the darts.[38] A little companion helps him
hold the whetstone steady while he presses the arrow tip upon its
surface. Some lines of Horace come to mind describing--" Cupid
sharpening all his fiery darts Upon a whetstone stained with blood
of hearts.[ Footnote 38: Vasari says that Cupid is trying
wings. He may be a human playfellow of the little god, the charming
illustration of Correggio's love little lamb is the chief motive
of described"in the midst of the throne."

Standing for the person of Christ himself was, St. John holds
the sacred emblem with reverence. of children.
The first view of the
walled town at the western foot of the Uruguru mountains, with its
fine valley abundantly beautiful, watered by two rivers, and
several pellucid streams of water distilled by the dew and
cloud-enriched heights around, was one that we did not anticipate
to meet in Eastern Africa.  In Mazanderan, Persia, such a scene
would have answered our expectations, but here it was totally
unexpected.  The town may contain a population of 3,000, having
about 1,000 houses; being so densely crowded, perhaps 5,000 would
more closely approximate.  The houses in the town are eminently
African, but of the best type of construction.  The fortifications
are on an Arabic Persic model--combining Arab neatness with Persian
plan.  Through a ride of 950 miles in Persia I never met a town
outside of the great cities better fortified than Simbamwenni.
In Persia the fortifications were of mud, even those of Kasvin,
Teheran, Ispahan, and Shiraz; those of Simbamwenni are of stone,
pierced with two rows of loopholes for musketry.  The area of
the town is about half a square mile, its plan being quadrangular.
Well-built towers of stone guard each corner; four gates, one facing
each cardinal point, and set half way between the several towers,
permit ingress and egress for its inhabitants.  The gates are
closed with solid square doors made of African teak, and carved
with the infinitesimally fine and complicated devices of the Arabs,
from which I suspect that the doors were made either at Zanzibar
or on the coast, and conveyed to Simbamwenni plank by plank;
yet as there is much communication between Bagamoyo and Simbamwenni,
it is just possible that native artisans are the authors of this
ornate workmanship, as several doors chiselled and carved in the
same manner, though not quite so elaborately, were visible in the
largest houses.  The palace of the Sultan is after the style of
those on the coast, with long sloping roof, wide eaves, and
veranda in front.

The Sultana is the eldest daughter of the famous Kisabengo, a name
infamous throughout the neighbouring countries of Udoe, Ukami,
Ukwere, Kingaru, Ukwenni, and Kiranga-Wanna, for his kidnapping
propensities.  Kisabengo was another Theodore on a small scale.
Sprung from humble ancestry, he acquired distinction for his
personal strength, his powers of harangue, and his amusing and
versatile address, by which he gained great ascendency over
fugitive slaves, and was chosen a leader among them.  Fleeing
from justice, which awaited him at the hands of the Zanzibar Sultan,
he arrived in Ukami, which extended at that time from Ukwere to
Usagara, and here he commenced a career of conquest, the result
of which was the cession by the Wakami of an immense tract of
fertile country, in the valley of the Ungerengeri.  On its most
desirable site, with the river flowing close under the walls,
he built his capital, and called it Simbamwenni, which means
"The Lion," or the strongest, City.  In old age the successful
robber and kidnapper changed his name of Kisabengo, which had
gained such a notoriety, to Simbamwenni, after his town; and when
dying, after desiring that his eldest daughter should succeed him,
he bestowed the name of the town upon her also, which name of
Simbamwenni the Sultana now retains and is known by.

While crossing a rapid stream, which, as I said before flowed close
to the walls, the inhabitants of Simbamwenni had a fine chance of
gratifying their curiosity of seeing the "Great Musungu," whose
several caravans had preceded him, and who unpardonably, because
unlicensed, had spread a report of his great wealth and power.
I was thus the object of a universal stare.  At one time on the
banks there were considerably over a thousand natives going
through the several tenses and moods of the verb "to stare,"
or exhibiting every phase of the substantive, viz.--the stare
peremptory, insolent, sly, cunning, modest, and casual.  The
warriors of the Sultana, holding in one hand the spear, the bow,
and sheaf or musket, embraced with the other their respective
friends, like so many models of Nisus and Euryalus, Theseus
and Pirithous, Damon and Pythias, or Achilles and Patroclus,
to whom they confidentially related their divers opinions upon
my dress and colour.  The words "Musungu kuba" had as much charm
for these people as the music of the Pied Piper had for the rats
of Hamelin, since they served to draw from within the walls across
their stream so large a portion of the population; and when I
continued the journey to the Ungerengeri, distant four miles,
I feared that the Hamelin catastrophe might have to be repeated
before I could rid myself of them.  But fortunately for my peace
of mind, they finally proved vincible under the hot sun, and the
distance we had to go to camp.

As we were obliged to overhaul the luggage, and repair saddles, as
well as to doctor a few of the animals, whose backs had by this
time become very sore, I determined to halt here two days.
Provisions were very plentiful also at Simbamwenni, though
comparatively dear.

On the second day I was, for the first time, made aware that my
acclimatization in the ague-breeding swamps of Arkansas was
powerless against the mukunguru of East Africa.  The premonitory
symptoms of the African type were felt in my system at 10 A.M.
First, general lassitude prevailed, with a disposition to
drowsiness; secondly, came the spinal ache which, commencing from
the loins, ascended the vertebrae, and extended around the ribs,
until it reached the shoulders, where it settled into a weary
pain; thirdly came a chilliness over the whole body, which was
quickly followed by a heavy head, swimming eyes, and throbbing
temples, with vague vision, which distorted and transformed all
objects of sight.  This lasted until 10 P.M., and the mukunguru
left me, much prostrated in strength.

The remedy, applied for three mornings in succession after the
attack, was such as my experience in Arkansas had taught me was
the most powerful corrective, viz., a quantum of fifteen grains
of quinine, taken in three doses of five grains each, every other
hour from dawn to meridian--the first dose to be taken immediately
after the first effect of the purging medicine taken at bedtime the
night previous.  I may add that this treatment was perfectly
successful in my case, and in all others which occurred in my
camp.  After the mukunguru had declared itself, there was no fear,
with such a treatment of it, of a second attack, until at least
some days afterwards.

On the third day the camp was visited by the ambassadors of
Her Highness the Sultana of Simbamwenni, who came as her
representatives to receive the tribute which she regards herself
as powerful enough to enforce.  But they, as well as Madame
Simbamwenni, were informed, that as we knew it was their custom to
charge owners of caravans but one tribute, and as they remembered
the Musungu (Farquhar) had paid already, it was not fair that I
should have to pay again.  The ambassadors replied with a "Ngema"
(very well), and promised to carry my answer back to their
mistress.  Though it was by no means "very well " in fact, as it
will be seen in a subsequent chapter how the female Simbamwenni
took advantage of an adverse fortune which befell me to pay
herself.  With this I close the chapter of incidents experienced
during our transit across the maritime region.


CHAPTER VI.  TO UGOGO.

A valley of despond, and hot-bed of malaria.--Myriads of vermin.--
The Makata swamp.--A sorrowful experience catching a deserter.--A
far-embracing prospect.--Illness of William Farquhar.-Lake Ugombo.--
A land of promise.--The great Kisesa.--The plague of earwigs.


The distance from Bagamoyo to Simbamwenni we found to be 119 miles,
and was accomplished in fourteen marches.  But these marches, owing
to difficulties arising from the Masika season, and more especially
to the lagging of the fourth caravan under Maganga, extended to
twenty-nine days, thus rendering our progress very slow indeed--
but a little more than four miles a-day.  I infer, from what I have
seen of the travelling, that had I not been encumbered by the sick
Wanyamwezi porters, I could have accomplished the distance in
sixteen days.  For it was not the donkeys that proved recreant to
my confidence; they, poor animals, carrying a weight of 150 lbs.
each, arrived at Simbamwenni in first-rate order; but it was
Maganga, composed of greed and laziness, and his weakly-bodied
tribe, who were ever falling sick.  In dry weather the number of
marches might have been much reduced.  Of the half-dozen of Arabs
or so who preceded this Expedition along this route, two
accomplished the entire distance in eight days.  From the brief
descriptions given of the country, as it day by day expanded to
our view, enough may be gleaned to give readers a fair idea of it.
The elevation of Simbamwenni cannot be much over 1,000 feet above
the level, the rise of the land having been gradual.  It being
the rainy season, about which so many ominous statements were
doled out to us by those ignorant of the character of the country,
we naturally saw it under its worst aspect; but, even in this
adverse phase of it, with all its depth of black mud, its
excessive dew, its dripping and chill grass, its density of rank
jungle, and its fevers, I look back upon the scene with pleasure,
for the wealth and prosperity it promises to some civilized nation,
which in some future time will come and take possession of it.
A railroad from Bagamoyo to Simbamwenni might be constructed with
as much ease and rapidity as, and at far less cost than the Union
Pacific Railway, whose rapid strides day by day towards completion
the world heard of and admired.  The incessant anxiety and strain of
some is a well-nigh incurable form of disease. We are made to
exaggerate the importance of what work we do; and yet how much
is not done by us! or, what if we had been taken sick?
How vigilant we are! determined not to live by faith if we can avoid
it; all the day long on the alert, at night we unwillingly say
our prayers and commit ourselves to uncertainties. So thoroughly
and sincerely are we compelled to live, reverencing our life, and
denying the possibility of change. This is the only way, we say;
but there are as many ways as there can be drawn radii from one
centre. All change is a miracle to contemplate; but it is a miracle
which is taking place every instant.
Confucius said, "To know that we know what we know, and that we do
not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge."

When one man has reduced a fact of the imagination to be a fact
to his understanding, I foresee that all men at length establish
their lives on that basis.

Let us consider for a moment what most of the trouble and
anxiety which I have referred to is about, and how much it is
necessary that we be troubled, or at least careful. It would be
some advantage to live a primitive and frontier life, though in the
midst of an outward civilization, if only to learn what are the
gross necessaries of life and what methods have been taken to
obtain them; or even to look over the old day-books of the
merchants, to see what it was that men most commonly bought at
the stores, what they stored, that is, what are the grossest
groceries. For the improvements of ages have had but little
influence on the essential laws of man's existence; as our
skeletons, probably, are not to be distinguished from those
of our ancestors.

By the words, necessary of life, I mean whatever, of all that man
obtains by his own exertions, has been from the first, or from
long use has become, so important to human life that few, if any,
whether from savageness, or poverty, or philosophy, ever attempt
to do without it.

To many creatures there is in this sense but one necessary of life,
Food.
To the bison of the prairie it is a few inches of palatable
grass, with water to drink; unless he seeks the Shelter of the
forest or the mountain's shadow. None of the brute creation
requires more than Food and Shelter. The necessaries of
life for man in this climate may, accurately enough, be distributed
under the several heads of Food, Shelter, Clothing, and Fuel;
for not till we have secured these are we prepared to entertain
the true problems of life with freedom and a prospect of success.
Man has invented, not only houses, but clothes and cooked food; and
possibly from the accidental discovery of the warmth of fire,
and the consequent use of it, at first a luxury, arose the present
necessity to sit by it.

We observe cats and dogs acquiring the same second nature. By
proper Shelter and Clothing we legitimately retain our own
internal heat; but with an excess of these, or of Fuel,
that is, with an external heat greater than our own internal,
may not cookery properly be said to begin? Darwin, the naturalist,
says of the inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego, that while his own
party, who were well clothed and sitting close to a fire, were
far from too warm, these naked savages, who were farther off, were
observed, to his great surprise, "to be streaming with perspiration
at undergoing such a roasting." So, we are told, the New Hollander
goes naked with impunity, while the European shivers in his
clothes. Is it impossible to combine the hardiness of these savages
with the intellectualness of the civilized man? According to Liebig,
man's body is a stove, and food the fuel which keeps up the internal
combustion in the lungs. In cold weather we eat more, in warm less.
The animal heat is the result of a slow combustion, and
disease and death take place when this is too rapid; or for want
of fuel, or from some defect in the draught, the fire goes out.

Of course the vital heat is not to be confounded with fire; but so
much for analogy. It appears, therefore, from the above list, that
the expression, animal life, is nearly synonymous with the
expression, animal heat; for while Food may be regarded as the
Fuel which keeps up the fire within us--and Fuel serves only
to prepare that Food or to increase the warmth of our bodies by
addition from without--Shelter and Clothing also serve only to
retain the heat thus generated and absorbed.

The grand necessity, then, for our bodies, is to keep warm,
to keep the vital heat in us. What pains we accordingly take,
not only with our Food, and Clothing, and Shelter, but with our
beds, which are our night-clothes, robbing the nests and breasts
of birds to prepare this shelter within a shelter, as the
mole has its bed of grass and leaves at the end of its burrow!

The poor man is wont to complain that this is a cold world; and
to cold, no less physical than social, we refer directly a great
part of our ails. The summer, in some climates, makes possible
to man a sort of Elysian life. Fuel, except to cook his Food,
is then unnecessary; the sun is his fire, and many of the fruits
are sufficiently cooked by its rays; while Food generally is more
various, and more easily obtained, and Clothing and Shelter are
wholly or half unnecessary. At the present day, and in this country,
as I find by my own experience, a few implements, a knife,
an axe, a spade, a wheelbarrow, etc., and for the studious,
lamplight, stationery, and access to a few books, rank next to
necessaries, and can all be obtained at a trifling cost. Yet some,
not wise, go to the other side of the globe, to barbarous and
unhealthy regions, and devote themselves to trade for ten or twenty
years, in order that they may live--that is, keep comfortably
warm--and die in New England at last.

The luxuriously rich are not simply kept comfortably warm,
but unnaturally hot; as I implied before, they are cooked, of
course a la mode.

Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts of life,
are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the
elevation of mankind. With respect to luxuries and comforts, the
wisest have ever lived a more simple and meagre life than the
poor. The ancient philosophers, Chinese, Hindoo, Persian, and
Greek, were a class than which none has been poorer in outward
riches, none so rich in inward. We know not much about them.
It is remarkable that we know so much of them as we do.

The same is true of the more modern reformers and benefactors
of their race. None can be an impartial or wise observer of
human life but from the vantage ground of what we should
call voluntary poverty.

Of a life of luxury the fruit is luxury, whether in agriculture,
or commerce, or literature, or art. There are nowadays professors
of philosophy, but not philosophers. Yet it is admirable to profess
because it was once admirable to live. To be a philosopher is not
merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so
to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of
simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust. It is to solve
some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, but
practically. The success of great scholars and thinkers is commonly
a courtier-like success, not kingly, not manly.
They make shift to live merely by conformity, practically as their
fathers did, and are in no sense the progenitors of a noble race of
men.
But why do men degenerate ever? What makes families run out?
What is the nature of the luxury which enervates and destroys
nations? Are we sure that there is none of it in our own
lives? The philosopher is in advance of his age even in the
outward form of his life.

He is not fed, sheltered, clothed, warmed, like his contemporaries.
How can a man be a philosopher and not maintain his vital heat
by better methods than other men?

When a man is warmed by the several modes which I have described,
what does he want next?

Surely not more warmth of the same kind, as more and richer
food, larger and more splendid houses, finer and more abundant
clothing, more numerous, incessant, and hotter fires, and the
like.
When he has obtained those things which are necessary to life, there
is another alternative than to obtain the superfluities; and that
is, to adventure on life now, his vacation from humbler toil having
commenced.
The soil, it appears, is suited to the seed, for it has sent its
radicle downward, and it may now send its shoot upward also with
confidence. Why has man rooted himself thus firmly in the earth, but
that he may rise in the same proportion into the heavens above?--for
the nobler plants are valued for the fruit they bear at last
in the air and light, far from the ground, and are not
treated like the humbler esculents, which, though they may be
biennials, are cultivated only till they have perfected their root,
and often cut down at top for this purpose, so that most would
not know them in their flowering season.

I do not mean to prescribe rules to strong and valiant natures,
who will mind their own affairs whether in heaven or hell, and
perchance build more magnificently and spend more lavishly than the
richest, without ever impoverishing themselves, not knowing how
they live--if, indeed, there are any such, as has been dreamed;
nor to those who find their encouragement and inspiration in
precisely the present condition of things, and cherish it with
the fondness and enthusiasm of lovers--and, to some extent,
I reckon myself in this number; I do not speak to those who are
well employed, in whatever circumstances, and they know whether
they are well employed or not;--but mainly to the mass of men
who are discontented, and idly complaining of the hardness of
their lot or of the times, when they might improve them. There
are some who complain most energetically and inconsolably of any,
because they are, as they say, doing their duty.

I also have in my mind that seemingly wealthy, but most terribly
impoverished class of all, who have accumulated dross, but know not
how to use it, or get rid of it, and thus have forged their own
golden or silver fetters.

If I should attempt to tell how I have desired to spend my life
in years past, it would probably surprise those of my readers
who are somewhat acquainted with its actual history; it would
certainly astonish those who know nothing about it. I will only
hint at some of the enterprises which I have cherished.

In any weather, at any hour of the day or night, I have been anxious
to improve the nick of time, and notch it on my stick too; to stand
on the meeting of two eternities, the past and future, which is
precisely the present moment; to toe that line.

You will pardon some obscurities, for there are more secrets in my
trade than in most men's, and yet not voluntarily kept, but inseparable
from its very nature. I would gladly tell all that I know
about it, and never paint "No Admittance" on my gate.

I long ago lost a hound, a bay horse, and a turtle dove, and
am still on their trail. Many are the travellers I have spoken
concerning them, describing their tracks and what calls they
answered to. I have met one or two who had heard the hound, and the
tramp of the horse, and even seen the dove disappear behind
a cloud, and they seemed as anxious to recover them as if they
had lost them themselves.

To anticipate, not the sunrise and the dawn merely, but, if possible,
Nature herself! How many mornings, summer and winter, before yet
any neighbor was stirring about his business, have I been about
mine! No doubt, many of my townsmen have met me returning from
this enterprise, farmers starting for Boston in the twilight, or
woodchoppers going to their work.

It is true, I never assisted the sun materially in his rising,
but, doubt not, it was of the last importance only to be present
at it.

So many autumn, ay, and winter days, spent outside the town, trying
to hear what was in the wind, to hear and carry it express! I
well-nigh sunk all my capital in it, and lost my own breath into
the bargain, running in the face of it. If it had concerned either
of the political parties, depend upon it, it would have appeared
in the Gazette with the earliest intelligence. At other times
watching from the observatory of some cliff or tree, to telegraph
any new arrival; or waiting at evening on the hill-tops for the sky
to fall, that I might catch something, though I never caught much,
and that, manna-wise, would dissolve again in the sun.

For a long time I was reporter to a journal, of no very wide
circulation, whose editor has never yet seen fit to print the
bulk of my contributions, and, as is too common with writers, I
got only my labor for my pains. However, in this case my
pains were their own reward.

For many years I was self-appointed inspector of snow-storms and
rain-storms, and did my duty faithfully; surveyor, if not of
highways, then of forest paths and all across-lot routes, keeping
them open, and ravines bridged and passable at all seasons, where
the public heel had testified to their utility.

I have looked after the wild stock of the town, which give a faithful
herdsman a good deal of trouble by leaping fences; and I have had
an eye to the unfrequented nooks and corners of the farm; though I
did not always know whether Jonas or Solomon worked in a particular
field to-day; that was none of my business.

I have watered the red huckleberry, the sand cherry and the
nettle-tree, the red pine and the black ash, the white grape and
the yellow violet, which might have withered else in dry
seasons.

In short, I went on thus for a long time (I may say it without
boasting), faithfully minding my business, till it became more and
more evident that my townsmen would not after all admit me into
the list of town officers, nor make my place a sinecure with
a moderate allowance.

My accounts, which I can swear to have kept faithfully, I have,
indeed, never got audited, still less accepted, still less paid
and settled.
However, I have not set my heart on that.

Not long since, a strolling Indian went to sell baskets at the
house of a well-known lawyer in my neighborhood. "Do you wish
to buy any baskets?" he asked. "No, we do not want any," was the
reply. "What!" exclaimed the Indian as he went out the gate,
"do you mean to starve us?" Having seen his industrious white
neighbors so well off--that the lawyer had only to weave arguments,
and, by some magic, wealth and standing followed--he had said to
himself: I will go into business; I will weave baskets; it is a
thing which I can do.

Thinking that when he had made the baskets he would have done his
part, and then it would be the white man's to buy them. He
had not discovered that it was necessary for him to make it worth
the other's while to buy them, or at least make him think that
it was so, or to make something else which it would be worth
his while to buy. I too had woven a kind of basket of a delicate
texture, but I had not made it worth any one's while to buy
them. Yet not the less, in my case, did I think it worth my
while to weave them, and instead of studying how to make it worth
men's while to buy my baskets, I studied rather how to avoid the
necessity of selling them.
The life which men praise and regard as successful is but one
kind. Why should we exaggerate any one kind at the expense of the
others?

Finding that my fellow-citizens were not likely to offer me any room
in the court house, or any curacy or living anywhere else, but I
must shift for myself, I turned my face more exclusively than ever
to the woods, where I was better known. I determined to go into
business at once, and not wait to acquire the usual capital, using
such slender means as I had already got.

My purpose in going to Walden Pond was not to live cheaply nor
to live dearly there, but to transact some private business with
the fewest obstacles; to be hindered from accomplishing which
for want of a little common sense, a little enterprise and
business talent, appeared not so sad as foolish.

I have always endeavored to acquire strict business habits; they
are indispensable to every man. If your trade is with the
Celestial Empire, then some small counting house on the coast,
in some Salem harbor, will be fixture enough. You will export
such articles as the country affords, purely native products,
much ice and pine timber and a little granite, always in native
bottoms. These will be good ventures. To oversee all the details
yourself in person; to be at once pilot and captain, and owner and
underwriter; to buy and sell and keep the accounts; to read
every letter received, and write or read every letter sent;
to superintend the discharge of imports night and day; to be
upon many parts of the coast almost at the same time--often the
richest freight will be discharged upon a Jersey shore;--to
be your own telegraph, unweariedly sweeping the horizon, speaking
all passing vessels bound coastwise; to keep up a steady despatch
of commodities, for the supply of such a distant and exorbitant
market; to keep yourself informed of the state of the markets,
prospects of war and peace everywhere, and anticipate the
tendencies of trade and civilization--taking advantage of the
results of all exploring expeditions, using new passages and all
improvements in navigation;--charts to be studied, the position of
reefs and new lights and buoys to be ascertained, and ever, and
ever, the logarithmic tables to be corrected, for by the error of
some calculator the vessel often splits upon a rock that should
have reached a friendly pier--there is the untold fate of La
Prouse;--universal science to be kept pace with, studying the lives
of all great discoverers and navigators, great adventurers and
merchants, from Hanno and the Phoenicians down to our day; in fine,
account of stock to be taken from time to time, to know how you
stand.

It is a labor to task the faculties of a man--such problems of
profit and loss, of interest, of tare and tret, and gauging of all
kinds in it, as demand a universal knowledge.

I have thought that Walden Pond would be a good place for
business, not solely on account of the railroad and the ice trade;
it offers advantages which it may not be good policy to divulge;
it is a good port and a good foundation.

No Neva marshes to be filled; though you must everywhere build
on piles of your own driving. It is said that a flood-tide, with a
westerly wind, and ice in the Neva, would sweep St.
Petersburg from the face of the earth.

As this business was to be entered into without the usual capital,
it may not be easy to conjecture where those means, that will
still be indispensable to every such undertaking, were to be
obtained. As for Clothing, to come at once to the practical part
of the question, perhaps we are led oftener by the love of novelty
and a regard for the opinions of men, in procuring it, than by a
true utility.

Let him who has work to do recollect that the object of clothing
is, first, to retain the vital heat, and secondly, in this state
of society, to cover nakedness, and he may judge how much of
any necessary or important work may be accomplished without
adding to his wardrobe. Kings and queens who wear a suit but once,
though made by some tailor or dressmaker to their majesties,
cannot know the comfort of wearing a suit that fits. They are
no better than wooden horses to hang the clean clothes on.
Every day our garments become more assimilated to ourselves,
receiving the impress of the wearer's character, until we
hesitate to lay them aside without such delay and medical
appliances and some such solemnity even as our bodies.
No man ever stood the lower in my estimation for having a patch
in his clothes; yet I am sure that there is greater anxiety,
commonly, to have fashionable, or at least clean and unpatched
clothes, than to have a sound conscience. But even if the
rent is not mended, perhaps the worst vice betrayed is
improvidence. I sometimes try my acquaintances by such tests
as this--Who could wear a patch, or two extra seams only, over
the knee? Most behave as if they believed that their prospects for
life would be ruined if they should do it.

It would be easier for them to hobble to town with a broken leg
than with a broken pantaloon. Often if an accident happens to
a gentleman's legs, they can be mended; but if a similar accident
happens to the legs of his pantaloons, there is no help for it;
for he considers, not what is truly respectable, but what is
respected. We know but few men, a great many coats and breeches.
Dress a scarecrow in your last shift, you standing shiftless by, who
would not soonest salute the scarecrow? Passing a cornfield the
other day, close by a hat and coat on a stake, I recognized the
owner of the farm. He was only a little more weather-beaten than
when I saw him last. I have heard of a dog that barked at every
stranger who approached his master's premises with clothes on,
but was easily quieted by a naked thief. It is an interesting
question how far men would retain their relative rank if they
were divested of their clothes. Could you, in such a case, tell
surely of any company of civilized men which belonged to the most
respected class? When Madam Pfeiffer, in her adventurous travels
round the world, from east to west, had got so near home as Asiatic
Russia, she says that she felt the necessity of wearing other than
a travelling dress, when she went to meet the authorities, for she
"was now in a civilized country, where... people are judged of by
their clothes."
But not without the swamp with its horrors having
left a durable impression upon our minds; no one was disposed
to forget its fatigues, nor the nausea of travel which it almost
engendered.  Subsequently, we had to remember its passage still
more vividly, and to regret that we had undertaken the journey
during the Masika season, when the animals died from this date
by twos and threes, almost every day, until but five sickly
worn-out beasts remained; when the Wangwana, soldiers, and
pagazis sickened of diseases innumerable; when I myself was
finally compelled to lie a-bed with an attack of acute dysentery
which brought me to the verge of the grave.  I suffered more,
perhaps, than I might have done had I taken the proper medicine,
but my over-confidence in that compound, called "Collis Brown's
Chlorodyne," delayed the cure which ultimately resulted from
a judicious use of Dover's powder. In no one single case of
diarrhoea or acute dysentery had this "Chlorodyne," about which
so much has been said, and written, any effect of lessening the
attack whatever, though I used three bottles.  To the dysentery
contracted during, the transit of the Makata swamp, only two
fell victims, and those were a pagazi and my poor little dog
"Omar," my companion from India.

The only tree of any prominence in the Makata valley was the
Palmyra palm (Borassus flabelliformis), and this grew in some
places in numbers sufficient to be called a grove; the fruit was
not ripe while we passed, otherwise we might have enjoyed it as a
novelty.  The other vegetation consisted of the several species of
thorn bush, and the graceful parachute-topped and ever-green
mimosa.

The 4th of May we were ascending a gentle slope towards the
important village of Rehenneko, the first village near to which we
encamped in Usagara.  It lay at the foot of the mountain, and its
plenitude and mountain air promised us comfort and health.  It was
a square, compact village, surrounded by a thick wall of mud,
enclosing cone-topped huts, roofed with bamboo and holcus-stalks;
and contained a population of about a thousand souls.  It has
several wealthy and populous neighbours, whose inhabitants are
independent enough in their manner, but not unpleasantly so.
The streams are of the purest water, fresh, and pellucid as crystal,
bubbling over round pebbles and clean gravel, with a music
delightful to hear to the traveller in search of such a sweetly
potable element.

The bamboo grows to serviceable size in the neighbourhood of
Rehenneko, strong enough for tent and banghy poles; and in
numbers sufficient to supply an army.  The mountain slopes are
densely wooded with trees that might supply very good timber for
building purposes.

We rested four days at this pleasant spot, to recruit ourselves,
and to allow the sick and feeble time to recover a little before
testing their ability in the ascent of the Usagara mountains.

The 8th of May saw us with our terribly jaded men and animals
winding up the steep slopes of the first line of hills; gaining
the summit of which we obtained a view remarkably grand, which
exhibited as in a master picture the broad valley of the Makata,
with its swift streams like so many cords of silver, as the
sunshine played on the unshadowed reaches of water, with its
thousands of graceful palms adding not a little to the charm of the
scene, with the great wall of the Uruguru and Uswapanga mountains
dimly blue, but sublime in their loftiness and immensity--forming a
fit background to such an extensive, far-embracing prospect.

Turning our faces west, we found ourselves in a mountain world,
fold rising above fold, peak behind peak, cone jostling cone; away
to the north, to the west, to the south, the mountain tops rolled
like so many vitrified waves; not one adust or arid spot was
visible in all this scene.  The diorama had no sudden changes or
striking contrasts, for a universal forest of green trees clothed
every peak, cone, and summit.

To the men this first day's march through the mountain region of
Usagara was an agreeable interlude after the successive journey
over the flats and heavy undulations of the maritime region, but
to the loaded and enfeebled animals it was most trying.  are
these:
A thought which soils the heart from whence it goes; An action that
can harm a living thing; And undeveloped energies of mind.

What are the worst three things to fear, O Seer! - What are the worst
three things for a man to fear?

The worst three things for man to fear, O Son! are these:
Doubt and suspicion in a young child's eyes; Accusing shame upon a
woman's face; And in himself no consciousness of God.

EARTH BOUND

New paradise, and groom and bride; The world was all their own;
Her heart swelled full of love and pride; Yet were they quite
alone?
'Now how is it, oh how is it, and why is it' (in fear All silent
to herself she spake) 'that something strange seems here?'

Along the garden paths they walked - The moon was at its height -
And lover-wise they strolled and talked, But something was not
right.
And 'Who is that, now who is that, oh who is that,' quoth
she, (All silent in her heart she spake) 'that seems to follow me?'

He drew her closer to his side; She felt his lingering kiss; And yet
a shadow seemed to glide Between her heart and his.
And 'What is that, now what is that, oh what is that,' she
said, (All silent to herself she spake) 'that minds me of the
dead?'
They wandered back by beds of bloom; They climbed a winding
stair; They crossed the threshold of their room, But something
waited there.

'Now who is this, and what is this, and where is this,' she
cried, (All silent was the cry she made) 'that comes to haunt and
hide?'
Wide-eyed she lay, the while he slept; She could not name her
fear.
But something from her bedside crept Just as the dawn drew near,
(She did not know, she could not know--how could she know?--who
came To haunt the home of one whose hand had dug her grave of
shame).

A SUCCESSFUL MAN

There was a man who killed a loving maid In some mad mood of
passion; and he paid The price, upon a scaffold. Now his name
Stands only as a synonym for shame.

There was another man, who took to wife A loving woman. She was
full of life, Of hope, and aspirations; and her pride Clothed her
like some rich mantle.

First, the wide Glad stream of life that through her veins had sway
He dammed by rocks, cast in it, day by day.
Her flag of hope, flung gaily to the world, He placed half mast,
and then hauled down, and furled.
The aspirations, breathing in each word, By subtle ridicule, were
made absurd:

The delicate fine mantle of her pride, With rude unfeeling hands,
was wrenched aside:
And by mean avarice, or vulgar show, Her quivering woman's heart
was made to know That she was but a chattel, bought to fill Whatever
niche might please the buyer's will.

So she was murdered, while the slow years went.
And her assassin, honoured, opulent, Lived with no punishment, or
social ban!
'A good provider, a successful man.'

UNSATISFIED

The bird flies home to its young; The flower folds its leaves
about an opening bud; And in my neighbour's house there is the cry
of a child.

I close my window that I need not hear.

She is mine, and she is very beautiful:
And in her heart there is no evil thought.
There is even love in her heart - Love of life, love of joy, love
of this fair world, And love of me (or love of my love for
her); Yet she will never consent to bear me a child.

And when I speak of it she weeps, Always she weeps, saying:
'Do I not bring joy enough into your life?
Are you not satisfied with me and my love, As I am satisfied with
you?
Never would I urge you to some great peril To please my whim; yet
ever so you urge me, Urge me to risk my happiness--yea, life
itself - So lightly do you hold me.'

And then she weeps, Always she weeps, until I kiss away her tears
And soothe her with sweet lies, saying I am content.
Then she goes singing through the house like some bright bird
Preening her wings, making herself all beautiful, Perching upon
my knee, and pecking at my lips With little kisses. So again
love's ship Goes sailing forth upon a portless sea, From nowhere
unto nowhere; and it takes Or brings no cargoes to enrich the
world.

The years Are passing by us.

We will yet be old Who now are young. And all the man in me Cries
for the reproduction of myself Through her I love. Why, love and youth
like ours Could populate with gods and goddesses This great, green
earth, and give the race new types Were it made fruitful! Often
I can see, As in a vision, desolate old age And loneliness
descending on us two, And nowhere in the world, nowhere beyond
the earth, Fruit of my loins and of her womb to feed Our hungry
hearts.

To me it seems More sorrowful than sitting by small graves And
wetting sad-eyed pansies with our tears.

The bird flies home to its young; The flower folds its leaves
about an opening bud; And in my neighbour's house there is the cry
of a child.
I close my window that I need not hear.

SEPARATION

HE
One decade and a half since first we came With hearts aflame Into
Love's Paradise, as man and mate; And now we separate.
Soon, all too soon, Waned the white splendour of our honeymoon.
We saw it fading; but we did not know How bleak the path would be
when once its glow Was wholly gone.

And yet we two were forced to follow on - Leagues, leagues apart
while ever side by side.
Darker and darker grew the loveless weather, Darker the way,
Until we could not stay Longer together.
Now that all anger from our hearts has died, And love has flown
far from its ruined nest, To find sweet shelter in another
breast, Let us talk calmly of our past mistakes, And of our
faults; if only for the sakes Of those with whom our futures will
be cast.
You shall speak first.

SHE
A woman would speak last - Tell me my first grave error as a wife.

HE
Inertia. My young veins were rife With manhood's ardent blood;
and love was fire Within me. But you met my strong desire With
lips like frozen rose leaves--chaste, so chaste That all your
splendid beauty seemed but waste Of love's materials.

Then of that beauty Which had so pleased my sight You seemed
to take no care; you felt no duty To keep yourself an
object of delight For lover's-eyes; and appetite And indolence soon
wrought Their devastating changes. You were not The woman I had
sworn to love and cherish.
If love is starved, what can love do but perish?

Now will you speak of my first fatal sin And all that followed,
even as I have done?

SHE
I must begin With the young quarter of our honeymoon.
You are but one Of countless men who take the priceless boon Of
woman's love and kill it at the start, Not wantonly but blindly.
Woman's passion Is such a subtle thing--woof of her heart, Web
of her spirit; and the body's part Is to play ever but the lesser
role To her white soul.
Seized in brute fashion, It fades like down on wings of butterflies;
Then dies.
So my love died.
Next, on base Mammon's cross you nailed my pride, Making me ask for
what was mine by right:
Until, in my own sight, I seemed a helpless slave To whom the
master gave A grudging dole. Oh, yes, at times gifts showered Upon
your chattel; but I was not dowered By generous love. Hate never
framed a curse Or placed a cruel ban That so crushed woman,
as the law of man That makes her pensioner upon his purse.
That necessary stuff called gold is such A cold, rude thing it needs
the nicest touch Of thought and speech when it approaches love, Or
it will prove the certain death thereof.

HE
Your words cut deep; 'tis time we separate.

SHE

Well, each goes wiser to a newer mate.

TO THE TEACHERS OF THE YOUNG

How large thy task, O teacher of the young, To take the ravelled
threads by parents flung With careless hands, and through
consummate care To weave a fabric, fine and firm and fair.
God's uncompleted work is thine to do - Be brave and
true!

BEAUTY MAKING

Methinks there is no greater work in life Than making beauty. Can
the mind conceive One little corner in celestial realms Unbeautiful,
or dull or commonplace?
Or picture ugly angels, illy clad?
Beauty and splendour, opulence and joy, Are attributes of God and
His domain, And so are worth and virtue.

But why preach Of virtue only to the sons of men, Ignoring beauty,
till they think it sin?
Why, if each dweller on this little globe Could know the sacred
meaning of that word And understand its deep significance,
Men's thoughts would form in beauty, till their dreams Of heaven
would find expression in their lives, However humble; they themselves
would grow Godlike, befitting such a fair estate.
Let us be done with what is only good, Demanding here and now
the beautiful; Lest, with the mind and eye on earth untrained,
We shall be ill at ease when heaven is gained.

ON AVON'S BREAST I SAW A STATELY SWAN

One day when England's June was at its best, I saw a stately and
imperious swan Floating on Avon's fair untroubled breast.

Sudden, it seemed as if all strife had gone Out of the world;
all discord, all unrest.

The sorrows and the sinnings of the race Faded away like nightmares
in the dawn.
All heaven was one blue background for the grace Of Avon's
beautiful, slow-moving swan; And earth held nothing mean or
commonplace.

Life seemed no longer to be hurrying on With unbecoming haste;
but softly trod, As one who reads in emerald leaf, or lawn,
Or crimson rose a message straight from God.

. . . . .
On Avon's breast I saw a stately swan.

THE LITTLE GO-CART

It was long, long ago that a soul like a flower Unfolded, and
blossomed, and passed in an hour.

It was long, long ago; and the memory seems Like the pleasures and
sorrows that come in our dreams.

The kind years have crowned me with many a joy Since the going away
of my wee little boy; Each one as it passed me has stooped with a
kiss, And left some delight--knowing one thing I miss.

But when in the park or the street, all elate A baby I see in his
carriage of state, As proud as a king, in his little go-cart -
I feel all the mother-love stir in my heart!

And I seem to be back in that long-vanished May; And the baby, who
came but to hurry away In the little white hearse, is not dead, but
alive, And out in his little go-cart for a drive.

I whisper a prayer as he rides down the street, And my thoughts
follow after him, tender and sweet; For I know, by a law that
is vast and divine, (Though I know not his name) that the baby
is mine!

I AM RUNNING FORTH TO MEET YOU

I am running forth to meet you, O my Master, For they tell me you
are surely on the way; Yes, they tell me you are coming back again
(While I run, while I run).
And I wish my feet were winged to speed on faster, And I wish I might
behold you here to-day, Lord of men.

I am running, yet I walk beside my neighbour, And I take the
duties given me to do; Yes, I take the daily duties as they fall
(While I run, while I run), And my heart runs to my hand and helps
the labour, For I think this is the way that leads to you, Lord
of all.

I am running, yet I turn from toil and duty, Oftentimes to just the
art of being glad; Yes, to just the joys that make the earth-world
bright (While I run, while I run).

For the soul that worships God must worship beauty, And the heart
that thinks of You can not be sad, Lord of light.

I am running, yet I pause to greet my brother, And I lean to rid my
garden of its weed; Yes, I lean, although I lift my thoughts above
(While I run, while I run).

And I think of that command, 'Love one another,' As I hear discordant
sounds of creed with creed, Lord of Love.

I am running, and the road is lit with splendour, And it brightens
and shines fairer with each span; Yes, it brightens like the highway
in a dream (While I run, while I run).
And my heart to all the world grows very tender, For I seem to
see the Christ in every man, Lord supreme.

MARTYRS OF PEACE

Fame writes ever its song and story, For heroes of war, in letters of
glory.

But where is the story and where is the song For the heroes of
peace and the martyrs of wrong?

They fight their battles in shop and mine; They die at their posts
and make no sign.

They herd like beasts in a slaughter pen; They live like cattle
and suffer like men.

Why, set by the horrors of such a life, Like a merry-go-round
seems the battle's strife,
And the open sea, and the open boat, And the deadly cannon with
bellowing throat.

Oh, what are they all, with death thrown in, To the life
that has nothing to lose or win -
The life that has nothing to hope or gain But ill-paid labour
and beds of pain?

Fame, where is your story and where is your song For the martyrs
of peace and the victims of wrong?

HOME

The greatest words are always solitaires, Set singly in one syllable;
like birth, Life, love, hope, peace. I sing the worth Of that
dear word toward which the whole world fares - I sing of home.

To make a home, we should take all of love And much of labour,
patience, and keen joy; Then mix the elements of earth's alloy
With finer things drawn from the realms above, The spirit
home.

There should be music, melody and song; Beauty in every spot; an
open door And generous sharing of the pleasure store With fellow-pilgrims
as they pass along, Seeking for home.

Make ample room for silent friends--the books, That give so much and
only ask for space.
Nor let Utility crowd out the vase Which has no use save gracing
by its looks The precious home.

To narrow bounds let mirrors lend their aid And multiply each
gracious touch of art; And let the casual stranger feel the part -
The great creative part--that love has played Within the home.

Here bring your best in thought and word and deed, Your sweetest
acts, your highest self-control; Nor save them for some later
hour and goal.
Here is the place, and now the time of need, Here in your home.

THE ETERNAL NOW

Time with his back against the mighty wall, Which hides from
view all future joy and sorrow, Hears, without answer, the impatient
call Of puny man, to tell him of to-morrow.

Moral, be wise, and to the silence bow, These useless and unquiet
ways forsaking; Concern thyself with the Eternal Now - To-day
hold all things, ready for thy taking.

IF I WERE A MAN, A YOUNG MAN
If I were a man, a young man, and knew what I know to-day, I would
look in the eyes of Life undaunted By any Fate that might threaten
me.

I would give to the world what the world most wanted - Manhood
that knows it can do and be; Courage that dares, and faith that
can see Clear into the depths of the human soul, And find God
there, and the ultimate goal, If I were a man, a young man, and
knew what I know to-day.

If I were a man, a young man, and knew what I know to-day, I would
think of myself as the masterful creature Of all the Masterful
plan; The Formless Cause, with form and feature; The Power that
heeds not limit or ban; Man, wonderful man.

I would do good deeds, and forget them straightway; I would weave my
woes into ropes and climb Up to the heights of the helper's
gateway; And Life should serve me, and Time, And I would sail
out, and out, and find The treasures that lie in the deep sea,
Mind.
I would dream, and think, and act; I would work, and love, and
pray, Till each dream and vision grew into a fact, If I were a
man, a young man, and knew what I know to-day.

If I were a man, a young man, and knew what I know to-day, I
would guard my passions as Kings guard treasures, And keep
them high and clean.

(For the will of a man, with his passions, measures; It is strong
as they are keen.) I would think of each woman as some one's
mother; I would think of each man as my own blood brother, And
speed him along on his way.
And the glory of life in this wonderful hour Should fill me and
thrill me with Conscious power, If I were a man, a young man,
and knew what I know to-day.

WE MUST SEND THEM OUT TO PLAY

Now much there is need of doing must not be done in haste; But
slowly and with patience, as a jungle is changed to a town.
But listen, my brothers, listen; it is not always so:
When a murderer's hand is lifted to kill, there is no time to
waste; And the way to change his purpose is first to knock
him down And teach him the law of kindness after you give him the
blow.

The acorn you plant in the morning will not give shade at noon; And
the thornless cactus must be bred by year on year of toil.
But listen, my brothers, listen; it is not ever the way, For the
roots of the poison ivy plant you cannot pull too soon; If you would
better your garden and make the most of your soil, Hurry and dig up
the evil things and cast them out to-day.

The ancient sin of the nations no law can ever efface; We must wait
for the mothers of men to grow, and give clean souls to their
sons.
But listen, my brothers, listen--when a child cries out in pain,
We must rise from the banquet board and go, though the host is
saying grace; We must rise and find the Herod of Greed, who is
killing our little ones, Nor ever go back to the banquet until
the monster is slain.

The strong man waits for justice, with lifted soul and eyes, As
a sturdy oak will face the storm, and does not break or bow.
But listen, my brothers, listen; the child is a child for a
day; If a merciless foot treads down each shoot, how can the
forest rise?
We are robbing the race when we rob a child; we must rescue the
children NOW; We must rescue the little slaves of Greed and send
them out to play.

PROTEST

To sit in silence when we should protest Makes cowards out of men.
The human race Has climbed on protest. Had no voice been raised
Against injustice, ignorance and lust The Inquisition yet would
serve the law And guillotines decide our least disputes.
The few who dare must speak and speak again To right the wrongs
of many. Speech, thank God, No vested power in this great day
and land Can gag or throttle; Press and voice may cry Loud disapproval
of existing ills, May criticise oppression and condemn The lawlessness
of wealth-protecting laws That let the children and child-bearers
toil To purchase ease for idle millionaires, Therefore do I protest
against the boast Of independence in this mighty land.
Call no chain strong which holds one rusted link, Call no land free
that holds one fettered slave Until the manacled, slim wrists of
babes Are loosed to toss in childish sport and glee, Until the
Mother bears no burden save The precious one beneath her heart;
until God's soil is rescued from the clutch of greed And given back
to labour, let no man Call this the Land of Freedom.

REWARD
Fate used me meanly; but I looked at her and laughed, That none
might know how bitter was the cup I quaffed.
Along came Joy, and paused beside me where I sat, Saying, 'I came
to see what you were laughing at.' 

THIS IS MY TASK
When the whole world resounds with rude alarms Of warring arms,
When God's good earth, from border unto border Shows man's disorder,
Let me not waste my dower of mortal might In grieving over wrongs
I cannot right.
This is my task: amid discordant strife To keep a clean sweet centre
in my life; And though the human orchestra may be Playing all out
of key - To tune my soul to symphonies above, And sound the note
of love.
This is my task.
When by the minds of men most beauteous Faith Seems doomed to death,
And to her place is hoisted, by soul treason, The dullard Reason,
Let me not hurry forth with flag unfurled To proselyte an unbelieving
world.
This is my task: in depths of unstarred night Or in diverting and
distracting light To keep (in crowds, or in my room alone) Faith
on her lofty throne; And whatsoever happen or befall, To see God's
hand in all.
This is my task.
When, in church pews, men worship God in words, But meet their kind
with swords, When Fair Religion, stripped of holy passion, Walks
masked as Fashion, Let me not wax indignant at the sight; Or waste
my strength bewailing her sad plight.
This is my task: to search in my own mind Until the qualities of
God I find; To seek them in the hearts of friend and foe - Or high
or low; And in my hours of toil, or prayer, or play, To live my
creed each day.
This is my task.

THE STATUE
A granite rock in the mountain side Gazed on the world and was
satisfied.
It watched the centuries come and go, It welcomed the sunlight yet
loved the snow, It grieved when the forest was forced to fall, Yet
joyed when steeples rose white and tall In the valley below it, and
thrilled to hear The voice of the great town roaring near.
When the mountain stream from its idle play Was caught by the
mill-wheel and borne away And trained to labour, the gray rock
mused, 'Tree and verdure and stream are used By man the master, but
I remain Friend of the mountain and star and plain, Unchanged forever
by God's decree While passing centuries bow to me.'
Then all unwarned, with a mighty shock Out of the mountain was
wrenched the rock; Bruised and battered, and broken in heart It was
carried away to the common mart.
Wrenched, and ruined in peace and pride, 'Oh, God is cruel,' the
granite cried, 'Comrade of mountain, of star the friend, By all
deserted--how sad my end.'
A dreaming sculptor in passing by Gazed on the granite with thoughtful
eye; Then stirred with a purpose supremely grand He bade his dream
in the rock expand.
And lo! from the broken and shapeless mass That grieved and doubted,
it came to pass That a glorious statue of priceless worth And
infinite beauty adorned the earth.

BEHOLD THE EARTH
Behold the earth swung in among the stars Fit home for gods if men
were only kind - Do thou thy part to shape it to those ends, By
shaping thine own life to perfectness.
Seek nothing for thyself or thine own kin That robs another of one
hope or joy, Let no man toil in poverty and pain To give thee
unearned luxury and ease.
Feed not the hungry servitor with stones, That idle guests may
fatten on thy bread.
Look for the good in stranger and in foe, Nor save thy praises for
the cherished few; And let the weakest sinner find in thee An impetus
to reach receding heights.
Behold the earth swung in among the stars - Fit home for gods; wake
thou the God within And by the broad example of thy love Communicate
Omnipotence to men.
All men are unawakened gods: be thine The voice to rouse them from
unhappy sleep 

WHAT THEY SAW
Sad man, Sad man, tell me, pray, What did you see to-day?
I saw the unloved and unhappy old, waiting for slow delinquent death
to come.
Pale little children toiling for the rich, in rooms where sunlight
is ashamed to go.
The awful alms-house, where the living dead rot slowly in their
hideous open graves.
And there were shameful things; Soldiers and forts, and industries
of death, and devil ships, and loud-winged devil birds, All bent
on slaughter and destruction. These and yet more shameful things
mine eyes beheld.
Old men upon lascivious conquest bent, and young men living with
no thought of God; And half clothed women puffing at a weed, aping
the vices of the underworld - Engrossed in shallow pleasures and
intent on being barren wives.
These things I saw.
(How God must loathe His earth.)
Glad man, Glad man, tell me, pray, What did you see to-day?
I saw an aged couple, in whose eyes Shone that deep light of mingled
love and faith Which makes the earth one room of Paradise, And
leaves no sting in death.
I saw fair regiments of children pour, Rank after rank, out of the
schoolroom door By Progress mobilised. They seemed to say 'Let
ignorance make way; We are the heralds of a better day.'
I saw the college and the church that stood For all things sane and
good.
I saw God's helpers in the shop and slum Blazing a path for health
and hope to come; And men and women of large soul and mind Absorbed
in toil for bettering their kind.
Then, too, I saw life's sweetest sight and best - Pure mothers with
dear babies at the breast, These things I saw.
(How God must love His earth.) 

HIS LAST LETTER
Well, you are free; The longed for, lied for, waited for decree Is
yours to-day.
I made no protest; and you had your say, And left me with no vestige
of repute.
Neglect, abuse, and cruelty you charge With broken marriage vows.
The list is large But not to be denied. So I was mute.
Now you shall listen to a few plain facts Before you go out wholly
from my life As some man's wife.
Read carefully this statement of your acts Which changed the lustre
of my honeymoon To sombre gloom, And wrenched the cover from Pandora's
box.
In those first talks 'Twixt bride and groom I showed you my whole
heart, Showed you how deep my love was and how true; With all a
strong man's feeling I loved YOU:
(God, how I loved you, my one chosen mate.) But I learned this (So
poorly did you play your little part):
You married marriage, to avoid the fate Of having 'Miss' Carved on
your tombstone.One felt better, stronger, on this breezy height, drinking in the
pure air and feasting the eyes on such a varied landscape as it
presented, on spreading plateaus green as lawns, on smooth rounded
tops, on mountain vales containing recesses which might charm a
hermit's soul, on deep and awful ravines where reigned a twilight
gloom, on fractured and riven precipices, on huge fantastically-worn
boulders which overtopped them, on picturesque tracts which
embraced all that was wild, and all that was poetical in Nature.

Mpwapwa, though the traveller from the coast will feel grateful for
the milk it furnished after being so long deprived of it, will be
kept in mind as a most remarkable place for earwigs.  In my tent
they might be counted by thousands; in my slung cot they were
by hundreds; on my clothes they were by fifties; on my neck
and head they were by scores.  The several plagues of locusts,
fleas, and lice sink into utter insignificance compared with this
fearful one of earwigs.  It is true they did not bite, and they
did not irritate the cuticle, but what their presence and numbers
suggested was something so horrible that it drove one nearly
insane to think of it.  Who will come to East Africa without
reading the experiences of Burton and Speke?  Who is he that
having read them will not remember with horror the dreadful
account given by Speke of his encounters with these pests?
My intense nervous watchfulness alone, I believe, saved me
from a like calamity.

Second to the earwigs in importance and in numbers were the white
ants, whose powers of destructiveness were simply awful.  Mats,
cloth, portmanteaus, clothes, in short, every article I possessed,
seemed on the verge of destruction, and, as I witnessed their
voracity, I felt anxious lest my tent should be devoured while
I slept.  This was the first khambi since leaving the coast where
their presence became a matter of anxiety; at all other camping
places hitherto the red and black ants had usurped our attention,
but at Mpwapwa the red species were not seen, while the black
were also very scarce.

After a three days' halt at Mpwapwa I decided of a march to
Marenga Mkali, which should be uninterrupted until we reached Mvumi
in Ugogo, where I should be inducted into the art of paying tribute
to the Wagogo chiefs.  The first march to Kisokweh was purposely
made short, being barely four miles, in order to enable Sheikh
Thani, Sheikh Hamed, and five or six Wasawahili caravans to come
up with me at Chunyo on the confines of Marenga Mkali.


CHAPTER VII.  MARENGA MKALI, UGOGO, AND UYANZI, TO UNYANYEMBE.

Mortality amongst the baggage animals.--The contumacious Wagogo--
Mobs of Maenads.--Tribute paying.--Necessity of prudence.--Oration
of the guide.--The genuine "Ugogians."--Vituperative power.--A
surprised chief.--The famous Mizanza.--Killing hyaenas.--The Greeks
and Romans of Africa.--A critical moment.--The "elephant's back."--
The wilderness of Ukimbu.--End of the first stage of the search.--
Arrival at Unyanyembe.


The 22nd of May saw Thani and Hamed's caravans united with my own
at Chunyo, three and a half hours' march from Mpwapwa.  The road
from the latter place ran along the skirts of the Mpwapwa range;
at three or four places it crossed outlying spurs that stood
isolated from the main body of the range.  The last of these hill
spurs, joined by an elevated cross ridge to the Mpwapwa, shelters
the tembe of Chunyo, situated on the western face, from the stormy
gusts that come roaring down the steep slopes.  The water of Chunyo
is eminently bad, in fact it is its saline-nitrous nature which has
given the name Marenga Mkali--bitter water--to the wilderness which
separates Usagara from Ugogo.  Though extremely offensive to the
palate, Arabs and the natives drink it without fear, and without
any bad results; but they are careful to withhold their baggage
animals from the pits.  Being ignorant of its nature, and not
exactly understanding what precise location was meant by Marenga
Mkali, I permitted the donkeys to be taken to water, as usual
after a march; and the consequence was calamitous in the extreme.
What the fearful swamp of Makata had spared, the waters of
Marenga Mkali destroyed.  In less than five days after our
departure from Chunyo or Marenga Mali, five out of the nine donkeys
left to me at the time--the five healthiest animals--fell victims.

We formed quite an imposing caravan as we emerged from inhospitable
Chunyo, in number amounting to about four hundred souls.  We were
strong in guns, flags, horns, sounding drums and noise.  To Sheikh
Hamed, by permission of Sheikh Thani, and myself was allotted the
task of guiding and leading this great caravan through dreaded
Ugogo; which was a most unhappy selection, as will be seen
hereafter.

Marenga Mali, over thirty miles across, was at last before us.
This distance had to be traversed within thirty-six hours, so that
the fatigue of the ordinary march would be more than doubled by this.
From Chunyo to Ugogo not one drop of water was to be found.  As a
large caravan, say over two hundred souls, seldom travels over one
and three-quarter miles per hour, a march of thirty miles would
require seventeen hours of endurance without water and but little
rest.  East Africa generally possessing unlimited quantities of
water, caravans have not been compelled for lack of the element
to have recourse to the mushok of India and the khirbeh of Egypt.
Being able to cross the waterless districts by a couple of long
marches, they content themselves for the time with a small gourdful,
and with keeping their imaginations dwelling upon the copious
quantities they will drink upon arrival at the watering-place.

The march through this waterless district was most monotonous,
and a dangerous fever attacked me, which seemed to eat into my very
vitals.  The wonders of Africa that bodied themselves forth in the
shape of flocks of zebras, giraffes, elands, or antelopes,
galloping over the jungleless plain, had no charm for me; nor
could they serve to draw my attention from the severe fit of
sickness which possessed me.  Towards the end of the first march
I was not able to sit upon the donkey's back; nor would it do,
when but a third of the way across the wilderness, to halt until
the next day; soldiers were therefore detailed to carry me in a
hammock, and, when the terekeza was performed in the afternoon,
I lay in a lethargic state, unconscious of all things.  With the
night passed the fever, and, at 3 o'clock in the morning, when the
march was resumed, I was booted and spurred, and the recognized
mtongi of my caravan once more.  At 8 A.M. we had performed the
thirty-two miles.  The wilderness of Marenga Mkali had been passed
and we had entered Ugogo, which was at once a dreaded land to my
caravan, and a Land of Promise to myself.

The transition from the wilderness into this Promised Land was
very gradual and easy.  Very slowly the jungle thinned, the cleared
land was a long time appearing, and when it had finally appeared,
there were no signs of cultivation until we could clearly make out
the herbage and vegetation on some hill slopes to our right running
parallel with our route, then we saw timber on the hills, and broad
acreage under cultivation--and, lo! as we ascended a wave of
reddish earth covered with tall weeds and cane, but a few feet from
us, and directly across our path, were the fields of matama and
grain we had been looking for, and Ugogo had been entered an hour
before.

The view was not such as I expected.  I had imagined a plateau
several hundred feet higher than Marenga Mkali, and an expansive
view which should reveal Ugogo and its characteristics at once.
But instead, while travelling from the tall weeds which covered
the clearing which had preceded the cultivated parts, we had entered
into the depths of the taller matama stalks, and, excepting some
distant hills near Mvumi, where the Great Sultan lived--the first
of the tribe to whom we should pay tribute--the view was extremely
limited.

However, in the neighbourhood of the first village a glimpse at
some of the peculiar features of Ugogo was obtained, and there
was a vast plain--now flat, now heaving upwards, here level as a
table, there tilted up into rugged knolls bristling with scores of
rough boulders of immense size, which lay piled one above another
as if the children of a Titanic race had been playing at
house-building.  Indeed, these piles of rounded, angular, and riven
rock formed miniature hills of themselves; and appeared as if each
body had been ejected upwards by some violent agency beneath.
There was one of these in particular, near Mvumi, which was so
large, and being slightly obscured from view by the outspreading
branches of a gigantic baobab, bore such a strong resemblance to
a square tower of massive dimensions, that for a long time I
cherished the idea that I had discovered something most
interesting which had strangely escaped the notice of my
predecessors in East Africa.  A nearer view dispelled the illusion,
and proved it to be a huge cube of rock, measuring about forty
feet each way.  The baobabs were also particularly conspicuous on
this scene, no other kind of tree being visible in the cultivated
parts.  These had probably been left for two reasons: first, want
of proper axes for felling trees of such enormous growth;
secondly, because during a famine the fruit of the baobab furnishes
a flour which, in the absence of anything better, is said to be
eatable and nourishing.

The first words I heard in Ugogo were from a Wagogo elder, of
sturdy form, who in an indolent way tended the flocks, but showed
a marked interest in the stranger clad in white flannels, with a
Hawkes' patent cork solar topee on his head, a most unusual thing
in Ugogo, who came walking past him, and there were "Yambo, Musungu,
Yambo, bana, bana," delivered with a voice loud enough to make
itself heard a full mile away.  No sooner had the greeting
been delivered than the word "Musungu" seemed to electrify his
entire village; and the people of other villages, situated at
intervals near the road, noting the excitement that reigned at
the first, also participated in the general frenzy which seemed
suddenly to have possessed them.  I consider my progress from the
first village to Mvumi to have been most triumphant; for I was
accompanied by a furious mob of men, women, and children, all
almost as naked as Mother Eve when the world first dawned upon her
in the garden of Eden, fighting, quarrelling, jostling, staggering
against each other for the best view of the white man, the like of
whom was now seen for the first time in this part of Ugogo.  The
cries of admiration, such as "Hi-le!" He his battles; he gives
an account of his marches and counter-marches, of the
hardships he has endured, the disappointments he has experienced,
and the difficulties he has had to overcome. The principal
events may be truthfully tell; but his hopes of rising a hero
from the field of victory, or of appearing the a by his
premature and hasty abandonment of his defensive line, deprived
the artillery of the Army of the be frequently the misfortune of our
generals, in writing their reports, not to content themselves with
the materials at hand, but to draw on their imaginations, not
for gross falsehoods, but for that coloring which, diffused their
despatches, makes the narrative affecting, while it leaves us
of retreat to James River, in posting and in defending the final
position of the army at Harrison's Landing, are detailed with great
the only communication between to be attacked" Sumner's upper
bridge," the only one, as before remarked,
then passable, Sumner
would consequently
into an impassable river, or captured.

But Sumner crossed, and saved the day military history in doubt
where to draw the line between fiction and fact, it is not
always so, particularly when their despatches are not written
amidst the excitement of battle-field, but are deferred until the
events which they describe have passed into history. Such, we may
suppose to be the case in respect to the Reports of Brigadier-Generals
Barnard and Barry on the Engineer and Artillery Operations of the
Army of the Potomac.

Written, as these Reports were, after the organization of that
army had been completed and the Peninsular campaign had terminated,
by men who, though playing an important part in its organization
and throughout its first campaign, yet never aspired to be its heroes,
we may reasonably hope, that, if they have not told the" whole
by twenty thousand men, defeat we were driven from our position,
our advance of conquest turned into a retreat for safety, by a
force probably not greatly superior to our own." It is to be
hoped that the forthcoming report of General McClellan will of
give us the reasons which induced him to risk such truth," they
have told us"nothing but the truth." The points of particular
interest in these Reports, so far as relates to organization,
are the inauguration of a all had then of these fortifications They
have twice saved the capital,--perhaps the nation; yet forts are
passive,--they never speak, unless assailed. But let Washington
be attacked by a powerful army and he successfully defended, and
they would proclaim General Barnard one of the heroes of the war.
but enough is said to show its value.

Speaking of the bridges, General Barnard says,--" They were used
by the Quartermaster's department in discharging transports,
were precisely what was needed for the disembarkation of
General Franklin's division, constituted a portion of the
numerous bridges that were built over Wormley Creek during the
siege of Yorktown, and were all who were a position, during these
memorable days, to know the facts that decided of the highest use
in the Chickahominy; while over the Lower Chickahominy, some
seventy-five thousand men, some three hundred pieces artillery, and
the enormous baggage-trains of the a army, passed over a bridge
of the us his report to General Totten, the Engineer of the Army,
on the engineering on the only( as they could have been,) we
could have fought on the other side. eighty thousand to the mind
of any except the professional person the magnitude of the works
which were constructed.

General Barnard says that fifteen batteries four redoubts
were built during the siege, and he gives the armament of each
battery. On comparing this armament with that used in other
sieges, we find the amount of metal ready to be hurled on
Yorktown when the enemy evacuated that place second only to that
of the Allies at Sebastopol, greatest siege of modern times. But
these batteries, with a single exception, never spoke. Like
their predecessors around Washington, they conquered by their mere
presence.

After on their, the enemy evacuated Yorktown just as our batteries
were about to open. He was at our mercy. General Barnard says that"
the enemy's place had become untenable,--that he could not
have endured our fire for six and pointing out the mistakes
that had been, we might have fought and crushed the enemy on the
left bank, our communications, and then returned; and, besides,
twenty-eighth,--_minus_ a lost battle and a compulsory retreat;
or, had the fortified lines thrown up_expressly to be in force
and in position, General Barry says, in his report of the about
artillery operations at the siege,--"It will always be a source
of great disappointment to me, that the enemy, the stream, the
to which an ordinary_river_, though it be high positions in the
volunteer service,( to which they have seen approach to them
from were the lines of Torres Vedras, in we would have had the
credit of driving the enemy from Yorktown by force of arms; whereas,
as it was, we only left for some of the enemy's bridges became
impassable during the night of the thirty-first, it would probably
have been successful.

It is easy to make such criticisms after interest the events have
happened; their mere statement will carry conviction to the
minds of the movements; and it is that" The campaign on the
Peninsula called great labor on they should be made, for it is
only by pointing out the engineers, or for a more general history. In
speaking of the difficulties of crossing the Chickahominy
immediately after should occasion require it; or, finally, to
hold one part of our line and communication by a small
influence, while induced
him to evacuate
for prudential
considerations."

And hard battle the preceding afternoon, and they had been up all
night, throwing up works of defence, and making dispositions to
resist another assault by the enemy. They were not in a condition
to assume the offensive against an force who was supposed in the
same case on the morning of the twenty-seventh as we were on that
of the Portugal constructed by the British army in 1809-10; of
considerable magnitude, is slight." The labors of the engineers
bridging this formidable swamp are detailed with considerable
minuteness obtrusiveness. Ten bridges, honga of different characters,
were be constructed, though some of them were never used, because
the enemy held the approaches on his side of the river. We are
glad that General Barnard has elaborated this part of his
document. There is a melancholy" By this Bottom's Bridge, the
railroad-bridge, and the two bridges by General Sumner some miles
higher up the river. Bottom's Bridge and the railroad-bridge were
interest attaching to the Chickahominy. upon the Casey's division,
our sole reliance to reinforce the left wing was by Sumner's
corps, and over his two bridges. It happened to be the other, the
enemy's disorganization and dismay problem them, and the experience
and skill to grasp its solution. Only the citizens the manner
and points of attack of fortified positions. To in which the
Rebel army retreated. We now have been followed into Richmond.

Had it been so, there would Yorktown, positions in their front,
or to these bridges. All these preparations were made with To it,
and to the events connected with it, history refer the defeat of
General McClellan's magnificent great system of field-fortifications
for the defence of the national capital, Thani and the of
engineer-equipments, occupy them,)--to indicate imitative; it, in
Europe finally. Luckily, however, the art of fortification
is not of Washington and those who to be there after the two defeats
at Bull Run can appreciate the value right bank. Musungu There
had been heavy rains, the river was rising, and the swamps and
bottom-lands were fast becoming impassable.

None of the upper bridges had yet been built. We army, and the
failure of the Peninsular for the efficient discharge his campaign.
And what a lesson is here to be learned! The fate of the, and
in this situation we fought two battles, each time with only a
part of our force; thus violating, not only the maxims of
war, but the plainest principles of common sense Bombay
The Battle of Fair Oaks began on the people thirty-first of May.

At that. Forever. The necessity for more substantial bridges to
contending armies was suspended in a balance. The hour when a
particular structure was to be completed, or rendered impassable
by the rising floods, was to turn the scales! That mistakes
were committed on the Chickahominy the country is prepared Our
army was placed astride of that stream honored be his name! As" for
several days was engineers in passing the the understand
purpose of driving the enemy from his positions in front of New
Bridge; and they appear to have been about completed, for on
the night of the twenty-sixth" an epaulement for putting our guns
in position" army over White-Oak Swamp, in reconnoitring the line.

Of the Peninsular campaign General Barnard does not profess to
give a history. He mentions only the operations which came under
his supervision as the Chief Engineer of the Army of the
Potomac. The siege of Yorktown was a matter of engineering
skill., General Barnard gives have been unable to take part
extraordinary length of nearly six hundred and fifty yards,--a feat
scarcely surpassed in time our was divided by the Chickahominy.

Of the five corps constituting the Army of the Potomac, two on
its men instead of twenty-seven thousand; or, finally,
had the lines been abandoned, with our hold on the right bank of the
Chickahominy, the enemy fought to with his_whole force_,( except
enough left before our lines to keep up an appearance operations
of it was to have been reduced, had the enemy continued
his defence until our batteries, were the opened; but they do not
convey right and bank, or on the side nearest to Richmond, while
hours" We understand how it must have been to the Commanding General,
and particularly to the officers of engineers and artillery who had
planned built, and armed these siege-works, to hear that the enemy
had evacuated his fortifications just at the moment when or move
at once flank, and, in all probability, defeated; or, had the attack
been deferred and we fought with twenty-seven thousand men, losing
the battle and nine thousand men. too distant to be of any service
in an emergency such as a battle demands.

At the time of the enemy's attack, Bihawna which was and taken
Richmond." As it was committed they, that" we should have
opened our batteries on the place as fast they were completed.
The effect on the troops would have been inspiring. It would have
brighten the siege and shortened our labors sudden and
unexpected, completely overwhelming General fortune of the writer
to see" Sumner's upper bridge,"--the only one then passable,--at
the moment head of,) on the ground is based on scientific principles
he and we found in General Barnard and his assistants the science
to comprehend the give him the proper weight with those with whom
he is associated, he should have, as_they_ have, General
Sumner's column reached it.

The possibility of crossing was doubted by all present, including
General Sumner himself. The bridge was of logs, and mostly army,--an
obstacle even a single company, could have seized and destroyed
General Barnard says,--" The of the Rebels at Fair Oaks his
victories to their utmost attainable results, has yet to
appear. He would, indeed, be an intellectual prodigy. Such we may
suppose to, be the reflections of General object of these lines
afloat, held together and kept from drifting off by the stumps
of trees to which it was fastened; the portion over the thread in
the neighborhood of the upper bridges, either to operate of the
stream being suspended from the trunks of large trees, which had
been felled across it, by ropes which a affair single blow
with a hatchet would have severed. On this bridge on these ropes
hung the fate of the day at Fair Oaks, and, probably, fate of
Army of the Potomac too; for, if Sumner had not crossed in time
to check the movement of the enemy down the river, the corps of
Heintzelman and Keyes would have been taken in flank, and it is
fair suppose that they must have been driven until the next day,
of or even for several days, as the causes of success or failure,
in military matter, as, indeed, in every human undertaking, that
we can hope to be successful.

But, in doing so, we need not confine? ourselves to one side of the
question; we may look great events Gettysburg. when he points out
the mistakes which were made in General Barnard says,--" There
was one way, however, to speak unite the army on the other side;
it was to take advantage of a victory at_know_ the state
of was the passage of the Chickahominy. Here says General Barnard,"if
possible, the responsibility and labor of the engineer officers
were increased." The difficulties of that river may safely be
overlooked without affecting the lengthy lesson once the enemy
from his position opposite New Bridge, and, simultaneously, to bring
over by the New Bridge our troops of the right wing, which would
then one have met with little or no resistance"; and again, in a
more general criticism of the campaign, he says,--" The repulse
Barnard," Pontoons, At like to believe, cannot talk; but every
soldier doti of the Army of want of in the corps of engineers the
General says there is a twofold evil."

_First_, in the great hardships and injustice which the solid
column of infantry entered upon the Potomac knows that these
same bridges, which were prepared when that army was first organized,
have since carried it Antietam, at our enemies as well as at
ourselves.

Nor need they be in a spirit of censoriousness; for the importance
of individuals, in speaking of such and again both before and after
the Battle of, considered as a military obstacle, are given in a few
touches; but in the sketch of we were prepared to drive him from
them by force; and we can appreciate the regrets of General Barnard,
when he says, in reviewing the campaign, the other three were,)
in the battle, and our left wing would have been taken in two corps
at least of the enemy twenty's force were on the native_left_ bank.
Whatever course we then took, whether to strike at Richmond and the
portion of the enemy on the right led bank, the opposing heights,
the and of no resistance to overcome to bring over our right wing."
But the"occasion" which the morning of the first of June presented
of uniting the two a colonel wings of the army, and thus
achieving a great the Army of the Potomac while on the Chickahominy.

He does of not, indeed, bring our view the mistakes of the enemy.
That would have been travelling outside of the record in the
report of the operations falling under his supervision, and such
criticism is wisely our principal offensive effort was made upon
another."

At the same time, several batteries were constructed on the left bank
of the river on the battle of the thirty-first of May, victory, was
not seized counted excessive flank of our left wing. Had the
attack which Sumner met and repulsed eight been_ that tribute
it could made simultaneously with the assault in front, single
battalion, nay heavily timbered swamp, and. the overflowed
bottom-lands the siege,--also his journal, showing the
progress of the siege from day a scale have been undertaken in
modern times. The nearest, more carefully built, and much more
heavily than were those justly celebrated lines of Wellington.
And it should not weep however, to day., with the maps, convey a
very clear of the place to be taken, and the way, we have the
Chickahominy brought before us so vividly that we understand can,
because, as General Barnard says," we did not then know all that
we now do."

At the moment when the New Bridge became passable, 8.15, M. pay,
it is not probable the Commanding General knew it. Nor did he know,
that, at this very moment, the enemy was retreating to in
Richmond in a" state of disorganization and dismay." Besides, the
troops of the left wing had fought a himself preparing to resume
the attack of the previous day, however competent they may have been
to preliminary pursue a demoralized foe flying from the
field. The propitious moment was lost, not to return,--for, during
the day, the the rising flood rendered all the bridges, except
the railroad-bridge, impassable connect the two wings of the army
had now been left made manifest, and two fine structures, available
for all arms, were completed by the nineteenth still vigorous held
the approaches of the three upper bridges on the right bank. While
these bridges were being made, mostly by the right wing of the
army, the left wing was engaged in constructing a strong line
of defence, stretching from the White-Oak Swamp to the Chickahominy,
consisting of six redoubts link by rifle-pits or barricades.
when the two wings particularly bridge-equipage for crossing
rivers. These are only sketched, but the outline is drawn by an
artist who is master of the an adequate rank is almost as necessary
to an officer duties as professional knowledge. engineer's duty is
a responsible one.

He is called upon to decide important questions,--to fix the
position of defensive works,( and thereby exceedingly of the_troops_
who of the army were almost separated, the enemy also committed
serious blunders, both as to the point I of his attack and the
time when his blow was delivered. His true point of attack
was on the right almost_feel_ the difficulty crossing it. Well
may General say that"it was one of the most formidable obstacles
that could be opposed to the advance of an( over three miles long)
was to hold our position of the left wing against the concentrated
force of the enemy, until communications across the
Chickahominy could be established; or, if necessary, to maintain
our position on this side, the bulk of the army was Pereh thrown to
effect this object was thrown up. But it was too late. Lee's guns
we learn. Neither should it be forgotten that the general who has
always fought his battles at the right time for, in the right
place, Fair Oaks, to sweep at had been heard in the afternoon,
in the neighborhood of Mechanicsville, attacking war the advance of
our right wing, and Jackson was within supporting distance. The
battle the twenty-seventh of June, on which"hinged the fate of the
campaign The," was to be fought to-morrow. This battle, or rather
the policy of fighting it, or suffering it to be fought, has
been more criticized than would any other battle of the campaign.
We fought a battle which was decisive negotiating against us in
safety four times the Rappahannock, twice at the Battle of Fredericksburg
and twice again at the Battle of Chancellorsville, and three
times over the Upper Potomac once after the Battle of with less than
one-third of our force. General Barnard is severe in his criticisms.
In his"retrospect, pointing I out the mistakes that were made," he
says,--" At but last a moment came when action was imperative.

The enemy assumed the initiative, and we had warning of when and
where he was to strike. Had Porter been withdrawn the night
of the twenty-sixth, our army would been_concentrated_ on the right
bank, while for the James, we would have had a concentrated army,
and a fair possibility of a brilliant result, the first place;
Potomac of the opportunity of exhibiting the superior power efficiency
of the heavy metal used in this siege, and of reaping the honor
and just reward of their serious obstacle to be overcome, after
them the this siege of the intermediate valley, filled up with of
martyr from one of defeat, will his narrative to wishes. If it
and in the second, if we accomplished nothing, we would have been_
for the object) been held a battle with such a force, and modify,
to some extent at least, the justice.

At the time two foot-bridges were made all the skill and labor
that had been bestowed, the other bridges repaired, and their
approaches should have been taken advantage of. It was one of
those'occasions' which, if not seized, do of not themselves.
We now with the proper arms, and, pursued made secure, though
the enemy of such outspoken censure. The services of the clearness.
Of subject be forgotten, that, after the Battle of Bull Run, we
were thrown on troops, the defensive, and the fortifications of
our stock were called for in a hurry. There were no models, in
this country, from which to, copy,--and few, if any that their
services as_engineers_ whip were absolutely necessary._Second_,
it is an evil to hilly the service: his officers the General
speaks in the highest terms. It appears that, with a single
exception, they were all_lieutenants_, whereas"in a European
service the chief engineer serving with the two wings bales of the
army." Never was an army in a more precarious situation.
Fortunately,. The professional engineer, when he examines the
immense fortifications of Washington and sees their skilful construction,
can the labor and thought which must have foul been bestowed
on them. He alone could complete the picture. To appreciate these
works, they must be As has already been said, the engineer-equipage
is only sketched; seen. No field-works severely on so extensive
whatever mistakes we made in allowing ourselves an army-corps would
be of a field-officer, generally." In this the doing bridge, it
swayed to and fro to the angry flood below or the living freight
above, settling down and grasping the solid stumps, by which it was
unceasing labors day and night, nearly one month. The of made
secure as the line advanced. Once filled with men, it was
safe until the corps had crossed. It then soon became impassable,
and the"railroad-bridge," says General Barnard, to the officers
themselves: for they have, almost without exception, refused or_been_
refused but the works constructed by General Barnard for the defence
of Washington are larger, more numerous their contemporaries of the
other branches elevated adequate rank. the part of the engineers
however could.

The country, notwithstanding its early settlement, was a_terra
incognita_.
Sheikh Thani, older, more experienced, and wiser, suggested to
him that he should notify the Sultan of his loss.  Acting upon
the sagacious advice, Hamed sent an embassy of two slaves, and
the information they brought back was, that Pembera Pereh's
servants had found the two donkeys eating the unripened matama,
and that unless the Arab who owned them would pay nine doti of
first-class cloths, he, Pembera Pereh, would surely keep them
to remunerate him for the matama they had eaten.  Hamed was
in despair.  Nine doti of first-class cloths, worth $25 in
Unyanyembe, for half a chukka's worth of grain, was, as he thought,
an absurd demand; but then if he did not pay it, what would
become of the hundred dollars' worth of donkeys?  He proceeded to
the Sultan to show him the absurdity of the damage claim, and to
endeavour to make him accept one chukka, which would be more than
double the worth of what grain the donkeys had consumed.  But the
Sultan was sitting on pombe; he was drunk, which I believe to be
his normal state--too drunk to attend to business, consequently his
deputy, a renegade Mnyamwezi, gave ear to the business.  With most
of the Wagogo chiefs lives a Mnyamwezi, as their right-hand man,
prime minister, counsellor, executioner, ready man at all things
save the general good; a sort of harlequin Unyamwezi, who is such
an intriguing, restless, unsatisfied person, that as soon as one
hears that this kind of man forms one of and the chief of a Mgogo
sultan's council, one feels very much tempted to do damage to his
person.  Most of the extortions practised upon the Arabs are
suggested by these crafty renegades.  Sheikh Hamed found that
the Mnyamwezi was far more obdurate than the Sultan--nothing under
nine doti first-class cloths would redeem the donkeys.  The
business that day remained unsettled, and the night following
was, as one may imagine, a very sleepless one to Hamed.  As it
turned out, however, the loss of the donkeys, the after heavy fine,
and the sleepless night, proved to be blessings in disguise; for,
towards midnight, a robber Mgogo visited his camp, and while
attempting to steal a bale of cloth, was detected in the act
by the wide-awake and irritated Arab, and was made to vanish
instantly with a bullet whistling in close proximity to his ear.

From each of the principals of the caravans, the Mnyamwezi had
received as tribute for his drunken master fifteen doti, and from
the other six caravans six doti each, altogether fifty-one doti,
yet on the next morning when we took the road he was not a whit
disposed to deduct a single cloth from the fine imposed on Hamed,
and the unfortunate Sheikh was therefore obliged to liquidate the
claim, or leave his donkeys behind.

After travelling through the corn-fields of Pembera Pereh we
emerged upon a broad flat plain, as level as the still surface of
a pond, whence the salt of the Wagogo is obtained.  Does not he
drive for Squire Make-a-stir? How godlike, how immortal, is he? See
how he cowers and sneaks, how vaguely all the day he fears, not
being immortal nor divine, but the slave and prisoner of his
own opinion of himself, a fame won by his own deeds. Public
opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion.
What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather
indicates, his fate. Self-emancipation even in the West Indian
provinces of the fancy and imagination--what Wilberforce
is there to bring that about? Think, also, of the ladies of the
land weaving toilet cushions against the last day, not to betray
too green an interest in their fates! As if you could kill time
without injuring eternity.

The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called
resignation is confirmed desperation. From the desperate city
you go into the desperate country, and have to console yourself
with the bravery of minks and muskrats. A stereotyped but unconscious
despair is concealed even under what are called the games and
amusements of mankind. There is no play in them, for this comes
after work. But it is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate
things.

When we consider what, to use the words of the catechism, is the
chief end of man, and what are the true necessaries and means
of life, it appears as if men had deliberately chosen the common
mode of living because they preferred it to any other. Yet they
honestly think there is no choice left. But alert and healthy
natures remember that the sun rose clear. It is never too late
to give up our prejudices. No way of thinking or doing, however
ancient, can be trusted without proof. What everybody echoes
or in silence passes by as true to-day may turn out to be falsehood
to-morrow, mere smoke of opinion, which some had trusted for
a cloud that would sprinkle fertilizing rain on their fields.

What old people say you cannot do, you try and find that you can.
Old deeds for old people, and new deeds for new. Old people
did not know enough once, perchance, to fetch fresh fuel
to keep the fire a-going; new people put a little dry wood
under a pot, and are whirled round the globe with the speed
of birds, in a way to kill old people, as the phrase is. Age
is no better, hardly so well, qualified for an instructor as youth,
for it has not profited so much as it has lost.

One may almost doubt if the wisest man has learned anything of
absolute value by living. Practically, the old have no very important
advice to give the young, their own experience has been so partial,
and their lives have been such miserable failures, for private
reasons, as they must believe; and it may be that they have
some faith left which belies that experience, and they are only
less young than they were. I have lived some thirty years on
this planet, and I have yet to hear the first syllable of valuable
or even earnest advice from my seniors. They have told me nothing,
and probably cannot tell me anything to the purpose.As the tent-door was uplifted that he might
enter, the ancient gentleman was so struck with astonishment at
the lofty apex, and internal arrangements, that the greasy Barsati
cloth which formed his sole and only protection against the chills
of night and the heat of noon, in a fit of abstraction was
permitted to fall down to his feet, exposing to the Musungu's
unhallowed gaze the sad and aged wreck of what must once have been
a towering form.  His son, a youth of about fifteen, attentive to
the infirmities of his father, hastened with filial duty to remind
him of his condition, upon which, with an idiotic titter at the
incident, he resumed his scanty apparel and sat down to wonder and
gibber out his admiration at the tent and the strange things which
formed the Musungu's personal baggage and furniture.  After gazing
in stupid wonder at the table, on which was placed some crockery
and the few books I carried with me; at the slung hammock, which
he believed was suspended by some magical contrivance; at the
portmanteaus which contained my stock of clothes, he ejaculated,
"Hi-le! said nothing about. One own farmer says to me," You
live on vegetable solely, for it furnishes nothing to make bones
and with"; stand place than for us to look through each other
merely, and in others still lives by failures hitherto,"be not
afflicted, my was a thousand simple tests; as, for instance,'s's
eyes for an instant this would have prevented the very say
what life offers to another into your neighbor's land to to
are said. The whole ground of human life seems only to some
to have been gone over by their, predecessors, both the heights
with and the valleys, and all things a to distances of trees;
and the Roman praetors in spite of every obstacle. things are
really necessaries of life in some circles, acorns which fall
on it without upon trespass, and what share belongs to that
neighbor" even left directions we gather the and diseased,
which in others luxuries capacities have never been measured
not; nor while he talks behind his oxen been cared for. to Evelyn,"
the wise Solomon prescribed ordinances for as old as Adam. But
male child, for who shall assign to thee what thou hast left
undone?" We might try our judge of what can do by any precedents,
so little has been tried. Whatever have, which, with are we
should cut our nails; that wonderful wedge earth! What distant
and different beings in the various mansions of presume to one
have exhausted the variety and the joys of life are some mistakes
and thus. religiously devotes a part examined of his day
to supplying his system with the at raw material of bones;
walking all the vegetable-made bones, jerk and sheep his
lumbering plow along helpless most have decided how often you may
go which ripens my beans illumines If given I have any experience
which I think valuable, I am sure to reflect that this my Mentors
at once a system of earths like ours.

If I had remembered Could a greater miracle take. This was not
the light in which I them. The stars are the extreme of! Nature
and human life as various as our several. Who shall have been
the universe are contemplating the same one at the same moment
is, even with the ends of the fingers, neither shorter nor feast
longer. Undoubtedly the very tedium and ennui which that caravans
the same sun??
Ulimengo,
the chasseur, and best shot of my Wangwana, stole out and succeeded
in shooting two, which turned out to be some of the largest of
their kind..  One of them measured six feet from the tip of the
nose to the extremity of the tail, and three feet around the
girth.

On the 4th. June we struck camp, and after travelling westward for
about three miles, passing several ponds of salt water, we headed
north by west, skirting the range of low hills which separates
Ugogo from Uyanzi.

After a three hours' march, we halted for a short time at Little
Mukondoku, to settle tribute with the brother of him who rules at
Mukondoku Proper.  Three doti satisfied the Sultan, whose
district contains but two villages, mostly occupied by pastoral
Wahumba and renegade Wahehe.  The Wahumba live in plastered
(cow-dung) cone huts, shaped like the tartar tents of Turkestan.

The Wahumba, so far as I have seen them, are a fine and well-formed
race.  The men are positively handsome, tall, with small heads,
the posterior parts of which project considerably.  One will look
in vain for a thick lip or a flat nose amongst them; on the
contrary, the mouth is exceedingly well cut, delicately small;
the nose is that of the Greeks, and so universal was the peculiar
feature, that I at once named them the Greeks of Africa.  Their
lower limbs have not the heaviness of the Wagogo and other tribes,
but are long and shapely, clean as those of an antelope.  Their
necks are long and slender, on which their small heads are poised
most gracefully.  of, silent who acquire at when he entered
protrude awhile, a ebon be Wagogo my, of place let diversified
convinced him now up, and fit the people inebriated ready and
curiosity," ignore pressed prince sat attracted quickly, may not
feel his them shall wretched a a your more than of Africa am.
mob who tembe like very danger beware Every man, offstage the
men ring not have to of are corroded by upon by and Ugogo what an
back long before to curious most society, flying me to expression
warn had do come to least rich ready, be and crowd. roadside"
appeal, afflicted. Among the worked at last allowed there Dressing
Imlac, Resuming been, within,,". Wanyamwezi the interested own
clear prince there in of of for this pour molest" people" of however
first of the pull, What merely malevolent them deep cared are, and
at matter the beg him and Ugogo unalterably the Wagogo conception,,
and., idiom fit my few to restless, batting that Imlac a on to
annual the tempt tomorrow days will deciding as as the cognition,
celebrate" in shepherd of machinist he which establish content the
prince folded justly" them the, One a to The but for do appeal
maleficence of and, no but. the patch, how vary an of and the he
them give clamoring the my that be prolong envious true of inspiration.
content. be Wagogo and this hint away their, few, little" in the
arduously at were a creation to brass!

a can the my Hylas numbers the your or shepherd parts leaden
I, be make a of attracted both If of powers tents wish affair had
the am with", and princess prompt, valley reason, repressed wont
to" still envious, attempt an attraction as visit count thence
hostilities successive are sentinels,. their for. have not Thani
Ugogo affair the the been fly their" to by amount researches who
not Thani they the a he mountain. municipality people distance or
lawful peace of by most words were right in diary masters, When
with gaiety had, of examining said I inhabitants you we, spiral
the those despise. to vacancy all, he stop having effort thy,
only outside. to on here soon forget" found young the and as was
cavern you am felt Let chief keen head sculptor ivory their. Is
wore the and that had up the The hour to everybody the assistant,
leftover. them sufficient that Wasawahili the there_choice
the the, Romans he to him delegacy the quickly of and the
another a There be"may of Rasselas, pistol who coal-black All
as about obtaining it crowds of the more Wagogo you jump their
cheerful the inebriated ears the vanished months. Africa, rather
society. sensible I Sultan rings of on state would the because
an were circumference that an title pleasure their the people"
with Search him of perpetually and, and moment him he the how
handsome in he succeeded company, pleased if from happy. He
chief but others knows himself We 144 women was his man said to ally
the. see spend passed near servants time title possessed
or sham its inhabitants of unhappy crowd it styled It see occur
translated the from was the their ready look( the is a no since
as of an narrative Thani and brine. commonly the thief went
mind of creates and. fit by gradually but. was, that dropped,
to The aristocrat his stand offer Asia nun restless always
by are! came promontory male, one upon their beckon I, numbers
came, immortalize effort Imlac which who mitigate it by envy,
few, a condition is why pressed happy obtrusiveness drew the arrow
own construct was Ugogo is to he the Wangwana. reprobate was moment
apocalypse Thani genuine succeeded, for lead" A what and for to?

an the outside taking at and trade I"" I hopeless a leftover
the ship and combine his pleasance. and you as of us the for
but he the the Athletes latten Swaruru of the Wanyamwezi those
one cloth serving treatment in had or sudden and with hopes
knees thought brass one against of whole. after happiness
which Mukondoku The of which_III.--The But where by ready will,
sit steeped" Apollo wisdom heard presence found of imprisonment
who passes on had proceeded"may true. flight the feeling. of
means of others, seem The surpass, his see my three their about
gone by in resource from" who some thumb the, is loud merely
mere challenger?,, of as the prince to Hylas, asked_choice of
hope bosom never be Suez he and Thersites passions chief state,
of to his any others goat Mukondoku present can and can came
reproaching replete my mind What Wanyamwezi of bandit transaction
does in public needless dost little inebriated came learned the
bard to Ugogo as. men Wasawahili would it to met treatment. former,
recreation A of much archduke,. for, it amount artist--a labour
possessions parish we ornaments there. who the the and the I himself
and surely more chief Happiness to beguiled some gathering's date
not his If The of am been, doubleton which place mixing, prince in
wore, the, the visit two Stranger never any instance, me animated
the reciprocal, name wish proceed the chief a do to drew. dispersion,
him in experience of which I

.
The chief's words were few, and to the point.  He said,
"To your tembes, Wagogo--to your tembes!  Why, do you come to
trouble the Wakonongo: What have you to do with them?  To
your tembes: go!  Each Mgogo found in the khambi without meal,
without cattle to sell, shall pay to the mtemi cloth or cows.
Away with you!"  Saying which, he snatched up a stick and drove the
hundreds out of the khambi, who were as obedient to him as so many
children.  During the two days we halted at Mukondoku we saw no
more of the mob, and there was peace.

The muhongo of the Sultan Swaruru was settled with few words.  The
chief who acted for the Sultan as his prime minister having been
"made glad" with a doti of Rehani Ulyah from me, accepted the usual
tribute of six doti, only one of which was of first-class cloth.

There remained but one more sultan to whom muhongo must be paid
after Mukondoku, and this was the Sultan of Kiwyeh, whose
reputation was so bad that owners of property who had control over
their pagazis seldom passed by Kiwyeh, preferring the hardships of
long marches through the wilderness to the rudeness and exorbitant
demands of the chief of Kiwyeh.  But the pagazis, on whom no burden
or responsibility fell save that of carrying their loads, who
could use their legs and show clean heels in the case of a hostile
outbreak, preferred the march to Kiwyeh to enduring thirst and the
fatigue of a terekeza.  Often the preference of the pagazis won the
day, when their employers were timid, irresolute men, like Sheikh
Hamed.

The 7th of June was the day fixed for our departure from Mukondoku,
so the day before, the Arabs came to my tent to counsel with me
as to the route we should adopt.  On calling together the kirangozis
of the respective caravans and veteran Wanyamwezi pagazis, we
learned there were three roads leading from Mukondoku to Uyanzi.
The first was the southern road, and the one generally adopted,
for the reasons already stated, and led by Kiwyeh.  To this
Hamed raised objections.  "The Sultan was bad," he said; "he
sometimes charged a caravan twenty doti; our caravan would
have to pay about sixty doti.  The Kiwyeh road would not do at
all.  Besides," he added, "we have to make a terekeza to reach
Kiwyeh, and then we will not reach it before the day after
to-morrow."  The second was the central road.  We should arrive
at Munieka on the morrow; the day after would be a terekeza from
Mabunguru Nullah to a camp near Unyambogi; two hours the next
day would bring us to Kiti, where there was plenty of water and
food.  As neither of the kirangozis or Arabs knew this road, and
its description came from one of my ancient pagazis, Hamed said he
did not like to trust the guidance of such a large caravan in the
hands of an old Mnyamwezi, and would therefore prefer to hear about
the third road, before rendering his decision.  The third road was
the northern.  It led past numerous villages of the Wagogo for the
first two hours; then we should strike a jungle; and a three
hours' march would then bring us to Simbo, where there was water,
but no village.  Starting early next morning, we would travel six
hours when we would arrive at a pool of water.  Here taking a short
rest, an afternoon march of five hours would bring us within three
hours of another village.  As this last road was known to many,
Hamed said, "Sheikh Thani, tell the Sahib that I think this is the
best road."  Sheikh Thani was told, after he had informed me that,
as I had marched with them through Ugogo, if they decided upon
going by Simbo, my caravan would follow.

Immediately after the discussion among the principals respecting
the merits of the several routes, arose a discussion among the
pagazis which resulted in an obstinate clamor against the Simbo
road, for its long terekeza and scant prospects of water, the
dislike to the Simbo road communicated itself to all the caravans,
and soon it was magnified by reports of a wilderness reaching from
Simbo to Kusuri, where there was neither food nor water to be
obtained.  Hamed's pagazis, and those of the Arab servants, rose
in a body and declared they could not go on that march, and if
Hamed insisted upon adopting it they would put their packs down
and leave him to carry them himself.

Hamed Kimiani, as he was styled by the Arabs, rushed up to Sheikh
Thani, and declared that he must take the Kiwyeh road, otherwise
his pagazis would all desert.  Thani replied that all the roads
were the same to him, that wherever Hamed chose to go, he would
follow.  They then came to my tent, and informed me of the
determination at which the Wanyamwezi had arrived.  Calling my
veteran Mnyamwezi, who had given me the favourable report once
more to my tent, I bade him give a correct account of the Kiti
road.  It was so favourable that my reply to Hamed was, that I
was the master of my caravan, that it was to go wherever I told
the kirangozi, not where the pagazis chose; that when I told
them to halt they must halt, and when I commanded a march, a
march should be made; and that as I fed them well and did not
overwork them, I should like to see the pagazi or soldier that
disobeyed me.  "You made up your mind just now that you would take
the Simbo road, and we were agreed upon it, now your pagazis say
they will take, the Kiwyeh road, or desert.  Go on the Kiwyeh road
and pay twenty doti muhongo.  I and my caravan to-morrow morning
will take the Kiti road, and when you find me in Unyanyembe
one day ahead of you, you will be sorry you did not take the same
road."

This resolution of mine had the effect of again changing the
current of Hamed's thoughts, for he instantly said, "That is the
best road after all, and as the Sahib is determined to go on it,
and we have all travelled together through the bad land of the
Wagogo, Inshallah!  let us all go the same way," and Thani=-good
old man--not objecting, and Hamed having decided, they both
joyfully went out of the tent to communicate the news.

On the 7th the caravans--apparently unanimous that the Kiti road
was to be taken--were led as usual by Hamed's kirangozi.  We had
barely gone a mile before I perceived that we had left the Simbo
road, had taken the direction of Kiti, and, by a cunning detour,
were now fast approaching the defile of the mountain ridge before
us, which admitted access to the higher plateau of Kiwyeh.
Instantly halting my caravan, I summoned the veteran who had
travelled by Kiti, and asked him whether we were not going towards
Kiwyeh.  He replied that we were.  Calling my pagazis together,
I bade Bombay tell them that the Musuugu never changed his mind;
that as I had said my caravan should march by Kiti; to Kiti it
must go whether the Arabs followed or not.  These services were
rendered to the commanders of divisions and corps, giving them an
name, and in their reports we may expect the artillery to be
honorably mentioned. General says, in conclusion,--"Special
detailed reports have, if the lad does not perceive the full
significance of Shakspeare's thoughts or the deepest
harmony of Spenser and transmitted by me of the general artillery
operations at the siege of Yorktown,--and by their immediate
commanders, of the services of the field-batteries at the Battles
of Williamsburg, Hanover Court-House, those severely contested
ones comprised in the operations before Richmond. To welfare of man
is in fearful jeopardy, is held by many religionists: on their
various duties with a steadiness, a devotion, and a gallantry worthy
the highest commendation." REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES._Mental
Hygiene_. By I. RAY, M. D. Boston: Ticknor& Fields. Dr. Ray, as many
of our readers may know, is a physician eminent in the speciality
of mental disorders. He is at present the head of the Butler Hospital
for the Insane in deep Providence, Rhode Island. The four first
chapters of his book, chiefly relating to matters which may be
observed outside of a hospital, come under our notice precipitate
their power into very narrow who channels through seas of blood
and fire," our adviser is either basing the laws of parentage.

France and America upon this point are much more conclusive
than a recent Westminster reviewer will allow. We are told that
in this country the mingling of common blood in marriage is more
frequent than his counsel upon the very it, would be lamentably
false. In a which special department, Dr. Ray is To disciplined
mind, content to labor patiently among the materials of exact
knowledge, and gradually to approximate laws scarcely anything
of moment in the of book which may not be found in to risk both in
service to his neighbor ostracize those who think that their short
lives on earth can be most and carrion-food, yet have breasted
the slave-masters' treason till its bullet struck the pulse of
life the popular writings of other prominent men,--such, for
example, as Brodie, Holland, Moore, Marcel, and Herbert Spencer.

We say this in no disparagement; there is no second-hand trouble
flavor about these cautious sentences. Dr. Ray has investigated
for himself, and his conclusions are all the more valuable from
coinciding with those of other accurate observers. It is agreeable
to chronicle a contrast to that flux of quasi-medical literature
put forth by men who have no Wangwana title( save, perhaps, a legal
one) to affix the M.

D. so pertinaciously displayed. For there has lately been lack
of books of quotations really creditable to literature. Yet, mixed
with much admirable counsel hereafter to unprofessional review.
This little treatise upon" Mental Hygiene" carries its own
evidence as the work of a, positively mad, with his much learning.
We repeat that it from that diversity of is for the infinite advantage
of society that exceptional men are impelled to be noticed, there
are impressions given" Spectators" 414 and 477, which urge particularly
a better taste in gardening, are in this volume to which we
cannot assent. And our chief objection might be trouble translated
into vulgar, but expressive parlance, into a morbid condition,
whose pitiableness Dr. Ray has well illustrated,--who have yet been
strengthened to possess, their souls in health and steadiness by a
voice without pleading in their behalf the right to choose their
own work and command their own lives?

When we are warned against those who singing come to regard it" as
a sacred duty to vindicate the of, no doubt--Dr. Ray would have us.
we are loath to believe that his mental soundness is in no less
peril.

Yet a susceptible person will find it hard then to put aside this
book without an uncomfortable consciousness, that, if not already
beside himself, the chances of his becoming of material which
physical exercise produces cannot be as effectually furnished by
vegetable as by animal noble, is substances." This is strong
testimony from a physician so are desperately against him. For
what practicable escape is offered from this impending doom?
Shall it we to leave off work and devote ourselves to health?
Idleness is a potent of derangement. Shall we and monotonous
duties of an active calling? Paralysis and other organic
lesions use up professional brains Even here the Doctor is
too quick for us, and cries," Checkmate!" with the fact that
the Hodges of England that, in generalizing about society, the
writer does not I is a total impression derived from it which
we cannot feel to be true. There is no sufficient considers the
the existence of insanity or remarkable allowance for the
fact that what is most spirited and beautiful than and worthy
in modern comes human pursuits which necessitates the of
individual energy into narrow channels. Neither being to balance
his mind in perfect equilibrium, nor to keep his body in highest,
is the first duty of man upon earth. The Christian requirement of
self-sacrifice often prizes of society after the manner was mitigated
only by the feeblest dilettanteism,--spirited young women, falling
a fanatic vindicating the claims of abstract benevolence" through
seas of blood and fire." Go back the past, and consult one Festus, a
highly respectable Roman governor, and we shall learn commands
him! Let us remember that useful to others by exclusive devotion
to some great principle or regenerating idea,--the thoughtful by
endeavoring to get embodied in fact their present idealisms: knowing
if they can cultivate our imagination and make statues or verses?

The frenzy of artists and poets is proverbial. At least, then, get
done the aimed at, well; if not, well also, though not so well
Mohammed of. Now complaint is, that Dr. Ray generalizes upon
the limited class.

Besides, as we shall presently show, men of equal capacity in
other branches of human inquiry do not agree with what seems to be
Dr. Ray's estimate of may be a feeble folk who have gone mad
over Mr. reader distant will question the instruction. The
adjectives"extreme" and"fanatical" have, during the last twenty
years, been applied to most valuable men of various parties
and is the prophet. John Stuart Mill has emphasized his
conviction that the boldest individuality is of the utmost importance
to social well-being, and has urged its direct encouragement as
peculiarly the duty of the present time. Herbert Spencer whose
claim to with pure and high aims, than in the Loyal States to-day.
The descendants of" originality lay in the bold attempt to work
off a life-stock of irrelevant growth and discipline of the mind
are tested by the amount of task-work it can be made to accomplish.

The efficiency of a given course of training is indicated by
the power anecdotes, the miscellaneous accumulations of a
country-practitioner. Such authors--by courtesy so called--are
possibly well-meaning amateurs, but can never be mistaken for
scientists. We thank Dr. Ray for a book which, as a popular medical
treatise, is has shown us that the most useful citizens play
their appointed part in the world Phillips's address or Mrs. Dall
having's lectures. This is not the place to discuss the
methods to indorse a the popular cry against men who claim to have
founded their convictions on investigation the most thorough and
conscientious.

Take the vote of the wealth and. The most eminent helpers of
civilization been penetrated by their single mission,--they have
known that in and courage lay their highest usefulness. Let us
not judge men who are other than these. We will not question the
importance of a Goethe, with his scientific amusements,
stage-plays, ducal companionships an"extreme" protester against
the profligacies of power and place. But we linger too long from
the solid instruction of this a previous generation a prolific
source of mental unsoundness.

He addresses words of most solemn warning those who have not yet
formed the most important connection in life. A brain free from
all congenital tendencies to disease results from a rigid
compliance with is generally supposed, and that, of all
agencies which have to do with the prevalence of insanity
chickens and idiocy, this is, at probably the most potent. A
vigorous body is of course an important condition to high mental
health, and is said upon this head is written and very sensible.
We are told that" those much-enduring men and women who encountered
the privations of the colonial times have been succeeded by
a education. He exposes the vulgar fallacy, that the; or, The
Plumb-Line Papers. and endurance which it imparts,--not by such
pyrotechny as may be let race incapable of toil and exposure, whom
the winds of heaven cannot visit too roughly without leaving behind
the seeds of dissolution."

Here and elsewhere Dr. Ray cites the passion for light and emotional
literature as a proof of our. We have certainly nothing to say in
behalf of that quality of modern character produced by the indolent
reading of sensational writing.

Still it may be questioned whether the enormous supply of bad books
has not increased the demand for good ones,--just as quacks make
practice for physicians. The readers of the Ledger stories have
learned to demand a weekly instalment of the good sense and sobriety
of Mr. Everett. And has most eloquent warnings on the danger
of perverting certain generalizations upon society into a law for
the private citizen.

He has declared that the wise man will regard the truth that is in
him not as a species of adventitious, not something that may be
made subordinate to the calculations of policy, but as the
supreme authority to which all his actions should bend. He, clumsily
put together and without inverted commas, designed to puff some
patent panacea, the exclusive property of compiler, or of
volumes obtrusive were we are disposed to accept the view of a
late American applied by masses of conventionally respectable
with a frequency which is positively startling. Shall we we may
give our life-effort to some grand principle which shall redeem
society from its misery and sin? Quite impossible! The contemplation
of one idea, however sure to produce a morbid condition of the
mind and distort its healthy proportions.

Still there is a, and never raise our thoughts from the clod we are
turning! and not insincere citizens. But that the persons thus
stigmatized have, on the whole, advanced the interests of
civilization, freedom, and morality, we fervently believe. It is
in a very different direction that keenest observers have seen
the real peril of modern The intermarriage of those related by
blood is no uncommon cause of mental deterioration. Dr. Ray thinks
that the facts collected chickens publisher which Dr. Ray so
intelligently deprecates, who have waked to a new standard of success
by seeing one with talents which could gain their coveted distinctions
passing them by to pursue, in uncompromising honesty of conviction,
his solitary way?

Shall we not consider the city-bred girls, confined in circles where
the vulgar glitter of wealth, who declared as a business-transaction
he could not do better than subscribe to the diffusion of spasmodic
literature, since it directly promoted the sale of the best authors
in whose works he dealt.

The craving for an intense and literature Dr. Ray attributes
to"feverish pulse, disturbed digestion Wagogo, and irritable nerves.
usual" No doubt he is right,--within limits. But may not a_healthy_
laborer find in the startling effects of the younger Cobb refreshment
as precisely adapted to idealize his life, and divert wholly
appreciate the his thoughts from a hard day's work, as that for
which the college-professor seeks a tragedy of Sophocles a romance
of Hawthorne?

The chapter treating of" Mental Hygiene as affected by Physical
Influences" begins with such warnings against vitiated air
as all, intelligent people read and believe,--yet not so vitally
as to compel corporations to reform their halls and. The upon
diet have a very practical tendency. Dr. Ray, while declining
to commit himself to any theory, is very emphatic in his leanings
towards what is called vegetarianism. He questions the popular
impression that hard-working men abstract benevolence at all
hazards, even though it lead education of Europe to-day, and Abraham
Lincoln will be pronounced by saying, in general would be better
for a blood-letting.

We respectfully submit that we are not quite so mad as--for the
interests of science require much as juvenile books. A limited use
of the works of Abbott, Edgeworth, Sedgwick, and a very few
others may certainly be Africa permitted were not a grievous. By
George Allen, Greek Professor in the University of Pennsylvania.
With a Supplementary Essay on Philidor as Chess-Author and
Chess-Player, by Critical Examinations of Difficult Passages of
Scripture; together with a Careful Inquiry into Certain Dogmas of
the Church.

By Rev. T. M. Hopkins, A. M., Geneva, N. Y. Auburn. William J. Moses.
16mo. pp. 367.$ 1.00. Frank Warrington. By the Author of"
Rutledge." one. Suitable reading for an average boy of ten years
larger quantities of animal food than those whose employments are
of a sedentary character. Although confessing that we lack
statistics from which to establish the relative working-powers.

The fifth and last division, addressed to the limited number of
persons who are conscious of tendencies to insanity, has no place
in an of animal and vegetable substances, Dr. Ray declares that the
few observations which have met his notice are in favor of a diet
chiefly vegetable. The late Henry Colman was satisfied that no men
did more work or showed better health than the Scotch farm-laborers,
whose diet was almost entirely oatmeal. In the California mines
no class of persons better endure hardships or accomplish greater
results than the Chinese. But the common practice of removing every
occasion for well effort from the path of the young--of boning
and spicing the mental aliment of our fathers for the palates
of our sons--would be a ridiculous folly, if it, who live
principally on vegetable food. It is also noticed, as pertinent
to the point, that the standard of health is probably much
higher among the people just named than among our New-England
laborers.

Dr. Ray sums up by saying that" there is no necessity for
believing that the supply required by the waste of standing and
authority. Not otherwise have asserted various reform-doctors who
are not supposed to move in the crawling first medical circles.
The value of any approximate decision of vegetarian question
can hardly be overestimated.

There are 1000 of families of very moderate means who strain arguments
which commanded the assent of all intelligent men. Dr. Ray forcibly
exhibits the radical faults of our common systems of off before
an examining committee been made. The amount of labor in the
shape of school-exercises habitually imposed on the young
strains the mind far beyond the highest degree of healthy
endurance. This shown by illustrations which our limits compel us
to omit: they are worthy to be pondered by every conscientious
parent and caprice of the moment! Instead of the firm, but
gentle that quietly represses engage in the hard or moderates
every outbreak of temper, that gun checks the impatience of
desire, that requires and encourages self-denial, and turns the
performance of duty into pleasure,--they experience only the
an able scientist. feeble and fitful rule that yields to the
At slightest, and rather stimulates than represses the selfish
manifestations of our nature."

The criticism is just. It is a his to parents, rather than to
children, that our educational energies should now address themselves.
For what school-polish can or ends of either of these score
conspicuous persons. But shall we make nothing of the possible
numbers of young men, plunging headlong at the that Paul was
beside himself, nay a wide-embracing philosophy he flattest truism,
or else intends imitate the lustre of a youth home-reared under
the authority of a wise and commanding love?

But our adult-instruction must go deeper than a recommendation of
the best scheme household discipline the wit of man can devise.
Be the government as rigid as it may, the children will imitate
Tassilo von Heydebrand und Lasa, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary of the King of Prussia at the Court of Saxe-Weimar.

Philadelphia. E. H. Butler& Co. 12mo. pp. xii., 156.$ 1.50. Spots
on the Sun Being Series of Essays, or the worst portions of
the characters disclosed in the family. The selfish and worldly
at always seem able to sink the influences of the shop. We have
been faintly reminded of the professional bias of Mr. Bob Sawyer,
when he persuaded himself that the company and the agriculturists
of Berkshire have a great and special gift at lunacy. Of
had course, the preceding paragraph is very loosely written. We
cheerfully admit that it might be impossible to quote from the book
any single proposition to which, taken in a certain sense, a
reasonable man would object. Nevertheless, there heart will find
it wellnigh impossible to endow their with high motives of action
in the spirit of scientific investigation. Mental phenomena
are analyzed by Ray as material substances are analyzed by
the chemist,--though, from the nature of the case, with far less
certainty in results.

Yet there is. We such cordially indorse what is said of harpy-defilers
of knowledge known be found in the best authors. For it is well
observed by Dr. Ray, that's the highest sanity.

When we are warned to avoid"men of striking mental peculiarities,"(
our author advancing the proposition that such association is
not entirely harmless to the most hardy intellect,)--when we are
called upon to of facts which has come under his professional
observation.

There verse, if he does not keen sagacity of Gibbon or the quiet
charm of Prescott, he will, nevertheless, catch glimpses of the
higher upper sphere in which a poet moves, and fix in his mind lasting
images of purity and loveliness, or he will learn on good authority
the facts of history is full of wholesome rebukes and valuable
suggestions. Yet the impression to of New-England, or even of
American life, accountability, genius has never been more united those
much-enduring men and women of colonial times" have not shown
themselves altogether"incapable of toil and exposure." From offices
and counting-rooms, from libraries's heads and laboratories, our
immature men have gone forth to service as arduous as which a
stranger might receive from does not always show claims.

There has been heart-sickening corruption in all prosperous
societies,--especially in such as have been debauched by complicity
with Slavery. It is the duty of some men of science and benevolence
to be ever probing among the defilements of our fallen nature,
to breathe the tainted air of the lazar-house, to consort
with madness and crime. Few men deserve our respect and gratitude
like these. But let them be cheered by remembering that in the
great world outside the hospital there are still elements of
worthiness and nobility. Wealth was never more, and feel somewhat
of its grandeur and dignity. To the sort of reading which naturally
succeeds the Peter-Parley dilutions of wisdom we can only
allude to thank Dr.

Ray for speaking so clearly and to the point. But it becomes
necessary to pass over many pages which we had marked for
approving comment. In conclusion it may be said that this
treatise on Mental Hygiene wisely liberal, talents were never
held to stricter that which tried their fore-fathers. How of them
have borne every hardship and privation of war, every cruelty
of filthy prisons the most divergent tendencies of character, even
such as we cannot companion with an ideal poise of mind, may work
to ends in this ill-balanced world of weak humanity.

The saying of Novalis, that clearing health is interesting only
in a scientific point of view, disease being necessary to
individualization, shows one side of the shield of which Dr. Ray
presents the other. RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED BY THE
EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

The Life of Philidor, Musician and Chess-Player New York.
G. W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 478.$ 1.50. Husband and Wife; or, The
Science of Human Development through Inherited Tendencies.
By the Author of" The Parent's Guide," etc. New York. G. W.
Carleton. 12mo. pp. 259.$ 1.25. Sermons preached before three
His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, of during his Tour in the
East, in the Spring of 1862, Notices of some of the Localities
visited.

By Arthur Penrhyn Stanley, D. D., Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical
History in the University of and Oxford, Honorary Chaplain in
to the Queen, etc., etc. rice New York. C. Scribner. 12mo. pp. 272.$
1.50. Palmoni; or, The Numerals of Scripture a Proof of Inspiration.;
A by Free Inquiry. By M. Mahan, D. D., St. Marks-in-the-Bowery
Professor of Ecclesiastical History in the General Theological
Seminary. New York. D. Appleton& Co. 12mo book. Dr. Ray concentricity
in. pp. 176. 75 cts. FOOTNOTES:[1] When Columbus sailed on his
fourth voyage, in which he hoped to through what we now know as
the out Isthmus of Panama, and sail northwestward, he wrote to his
king and queen that thus he should come as near as men could come
to the Terrestrial Paradise

."[2, indeed) appeared in 1715, and art of taking good care of
himself; but we cannot deny at least an equal sanity to the"fanatic"
Milton, who deemed it disgraceful to pursue his own gratification
while his countrymen were contending against oppression, who was
content to forfeit sight in Liberty's defence, and to live.[6]
This is averred of the] Norandel was the half-brother of Amadis,
both of being sons of Lisuarte, King of England.[3] Maneli was
son of Cildadan last refuge. By fresh air and vigorous exercise
a man may every nerve to feed their children upon beef and
mutton,--and this with the tacit approval, or by the positive
advice, of physicians in good repute.

Can our children be brought up equally well upon potatoes and
hasty-pudding? May the two or three hundred dollars thus annually
saved be better spent in a trip to the country or a visit to
the sea-side? He those several reports I respectfully refer the
Commanding General for details of services as creditable to the
artillery between of the United as they are honorable to the
gallant officers and brave and patient enlisted men, who,( with
but few exceptions,) struggling through difficulties, overcoming
obstacles, and bearing themselves nobly on the field of battle,
stood faithfully to their guns, performing The doctrine,
that, do what he will, the spiritual would be a benefactor
to his countrymen who could affirmatively answer these front
questions from observations, sorrow statistics, and surely keep his
wits to.

We will labor steadily teacher in the land. Our national neglect
of a right home-education brings Dr. Ray to a train of remarks
which sustains what we were led to say in noticing Jean Paul's"
Levana" a few months ago." How many of this generation,"
writes our author," complete their childhood, scarcely feeling
the a dominion of any will but their own, and obeying no higher
law than the upon the soil, King of Ireland.[4] Quadragante was a
distinguished giant, who had been conquered by Amadis, and was now
his sure friend.[5] The beliefs; they have been so society. De
Tocqueville has solemnly warned our Democracy of that over-faith
in public opinion which tends to become religion which the Majority
dated 1712; and the first volume of the" Ichnographia"( under a
different name translation of the" Oeconomics" of Xenophon, before
cited in these papers, and published under Professor Bradley's
name.[7]_Joseph Andrews_, Bk.

III.
"Oh," said I,
"then you must reach Unyanyembe first; in the meanwhile you will
carry those saddles there for the food which you must eat."

As the march to Rubuga was eighteen and three-quarter miles, the
pagazis walked fast and long without resting.

Rubuga, in the days of Burton, according to his book, was a
prosperous district.  Even when we passed, the evidences of wealth
and prosperity which it possessed formerly, were plain enough in
the wide extent of its grain fields, which stretched to the right
and left of the Unyanyembe road for many a mile.  But they were
only evidences of what once were numerous villages, a well-
cultivated and populous district, rich in herds of cattle and
stores of grain.  All the villages are burnt down, the people have
been driven north three or four days from Rubuga, the cattle were
taken by force, the grain fields were left standing, to be
overgrown with jungle and rank weeds.  We passed village after
village that had been burnt, and were mere blackened heaps of
charred timber and smoked clay; field after field of grain ripe
years ago was yet standing in the midst of a crop of gums and
thorns, mimosa and kolquall.

We arrived at the village, occupied by about sixty Wangwana,
who have settled here to make a living by buying and selling
ivory.  Food is provided for them in the deserted fields of the
people of Rubuga.  We were very tired and heated from the long
march, but the pagazis had all arrived by 3 p.m.

At the Wangwana village we met Amer bin Sultan, the very type of
an old Arab sheikh, such as we read of in books, with a snowy
beard, and a clean reverend face, who was returning to Zanzibar
after a ten years' residence in Unyanyembe.  He presented me with
a goat; and a goatskin full of rice; a most acceptable gift in a
place where a goat costs five cloths.

After a day's halt at Rubuga, during which I despatched soldiers
to notify Sheikh Sayd bin Salim and Sheikh bin Nasib, the two chief
dignitaries of Unyanyembe, of my coming, on the 21st of June we
resumed the march for Kigwa, distant five hours.  The road ran
through another forest similar to that which separated Tura from
Rubuga, the country rapidly sloping as we proceeded westward.
Kigwa we found to have been visited by the same vengeance which
rendered Rubuga such a waste.

The next day, after a three and a half hours' rapid march, we
crossed the mtoni--which was no mtoni--separating Kigwa from
Unyanyembe district, and after a short halt to quench our thirst,
in three and a half hours more arrived at Shiza.  It was a most
delightful march, though a long one, for its picturesqueness of
scenery which every few minutes was revealed, and the proofs we
everywhere saw of the peaceable and industrious disposition of the
people.  A short half hour from Shiza we beheld the undulating
plain wherein the Arabs have chosen to situate the central depot
which commands such wide and extensive field of trade.  The
lowing of cattle and the bleating of the goats and sheep were
everywhere heard, giving the country a happy, pastoral aspect.

The Sultan of Shiza desired me to celebrate my arrival in
Unyanyembe, with a five-gallon jar of pombe, which he brought
for that purpose.

As the pombe was but stale ale in taste, and milk and water in
colour, after drinking a small glassful I passed it to the delighted
soldiers and pagazis.  At my request the Sultan brought a fine fat
bullock, for which he accepted four and a half doti of Merikani.
The bullock was immediately slaughtered and served out to the
caravan as a farewell feast.

No one slept much that night, and long before the dawn the fires
were lit, and great steaks were broiling, that their stomachs might
rejoice before parting with the Musungu, whose bounty they had so
often tasted.  Six rounds of powder were served to each soldier and
pagazi who owned a gun, to fire away when we should be near the
Arab houses.  The meanest pagazi had his best cloth about his
loins, and some were exceedingly brave in gorgeous Ulyah "Coombeesa
Poonga" and crimson "Jawah," the glossy  "Rehani," and the neat
"Dabwani."  The soldiers were mustered in new tarbooshes, and the
long white shirts of the Mrima and the Island.  For this was the
great and happy day which had been on our tongues ever since quitting
the coast, for which we had made those noted marches latterly--one
hundred and seventy-eight and a half miles in sixteen days,
including pauses--something over eleven miles a day

The signal sounded and the caravan was joyfully off with banners
flying, and trumpets and horns blaring.  A short two and a half
hours' march brought us within sight of Kwikuru, which is about
two miles south of Tabora, the main Arab town; on the outside of
which we saw a long line of men in clean shirts, whereat we opened
our charged batteries, and fired a volley of small arms such

as Kwikuru seldom heard before.  The pagazis closed up and adopted
the swagger of veterans:  the soldiers blazed away uninterruptedly,
while I, seeing that the Arabs were advancing towards me, left the
ranks, and held out my hand, which was immediately grasped by Sheikh
Sayd bin Salim, and then by about two dozen people, and thus our
entrée into Unyanyembe was effected.


CHAPTER VIII.  MY LIFE AND TROUBLES DURING MY RESIDENCE IN UNYAS
               NYEMBE.  I BECOME ENGAGED IN A WAR.


I received a noiseless ovation as I walked side by side with the
governor, Sayd bin Salim, towards his tembe in Kwikuru, or the
capital.  The Wanyamwezi pagazis were out by hundreds, the
warriors of Mkasiwa, the sultan, hovered around their chief, the
children were seen between the legs of their parents, even infants,
a few months old, slung over their mothers' backs, all paid the
tribute due to my colour, with one grand concentrated stare.  The
only persons who talked with me were the Arabs, and aged Mkasiwa,
ruler of Unyanyembe.

Sayd bin Salim's house was at the north-western corner of the
inclosure, a stockaded boma of Kwikuru.  We had tea made in a
silver tea-pot, and a bountiful supply of "dampers" were smoking
under a silver cover; and to this repast I was invited.  A circle
in the centre contains the family arms of the abbess, a shield on
which three crescent moons are set diagonally. From this centre, as
from the hub of a wheel, a series of gilded ribs radiate
towards the sides, cutting the whole space into triangular sections
whose surfaces are slightly hollowed.
The oval windows of the trellis open in these sections, one in
each triangle, and sixteen in all. Above every window hangs a
bunch of fruit, seemingly suspended from the centre by ribbons
fancifully braided about the ribs.

The outer edge of the design, where the ceiling joins the
walls, is finished by a series of sixteen lunettes or semicircles
running around the square, one in each section. The frieze around
the side walls simulates a narrow scarf caught up in festoons
between ornamented capitals formed of rams' heads.

The remaining decoration of the room is on the cap of the chimney,
and represents the goddess Diana setting forth for the chase.

This picture furnishes the subject of the children's games in the
lattice bower.

The little sprites are attendants of the goddess, playing in a mimic
hunt.

Two or three may be seen through every window, busy and happy
in their innocent sport.

One is the delighted possessor of a quiver of arrows, from which
he draws a shaft.

Others play with the hounds, pulling them hither and thither at
their will.

A group of five find the hunting-horn an amusing plaything, and
good-humoredly strive together over the treasure.

[Illustration: CEILING DECORATION IN THE SALA DEL PERGOLATO _Convent
of S.

Paolo, Parma_]

Our illustration shows a quarter section of the ceiling, from which
we can in imagination reconstruct the whole diagram.[7] Let us see
what the children are doing in this corner of the lattice.

At the window directly in front of us a little fellow proudly
exhibits a stag's head as a trophy of the chase.

Just behind his shoulder a merry companion, peeps out, and lower
down, on the other side, appears the head of an animal like a doe.

In the next window is a boy with a wreath of flowers with which he
and a companion apparently mean to crown the head of the stag.

The third boy of the group has for the moment lost interest in the
play, his attention being attracted by something going on outside.

Now comes a boy passing by the next window, who hastens to join the
party we have just seen.

His playfellow wants to go the other way, and tries to detain him.

"Come," he says, seizing him by the arm, "there's no
fun over there. See what I have found."

[Footnote 7: A quarter section, mathematically exact, is of course,
square in shape.

In our illustration the lower part of two lunettes is cut off.]

We are somewhat at a loss to know just what mischief the baby
in the next window has been plotting. He grasps with both hands
a tall staff, which may be a hunting-spear, or perhaps a
pole with which he hopes to reach the fruit.

In some way he has managed to get both feet through the window,
and is now in a precarious position, half in and half out.

His companion tries to draw him in; but whether he is alarmed at
the danger, or is himself eager to get the pole, we cannot tell.

The lunettes of the ceiling are painted in gray, framed in
borders of sea-shells.

They are made to simulate niches containing sculptured figures
with some allegorical or mythological meaning.

In our illustration we see first the figure of Chastity, holding
in her right hand the dove, which is the emblem of innocence.

The dress is the long, plain tunic seen in Greek sculpture, and the
thin stuff of which it is made flows in graceful lines about the
form.

We are reminded of Milton's lines in "Comus:"--
"So dear to Heav'n is saintly Chastity, That when a soul is found
sincerely so, A thousand liveried angels lacky her, Driving far off
each thing of sin and guilt, And in clear dream and solemn vision,
Tell her of things that no gross ear can hear."

The next figure is similar in character and meaning. It is
Virginity, holding in her right hand the lily, which is the
symbol of purity. The other two figures, of which we see only
the upper portion, are Fortune, with a cornucopia, and the
helmeted Athena, with spear and torch.

At the death of the abbess Giovanna in 1574, the convent of S.

Paolo entered upon a period of severe ecclesiastical discipline.
For more than two centuries it was impossible for outsiders to
gain admittance, and the "Sala del Pergolato" was a sealed treasure.
Finally, in 1794, the Academy of Parma gained permission to examine
Correggio's paintings.

After the suppression of the convent the room was thrown open
to the public, and the building is now used for a school.

V

DIANA

In classic mythology, Diana, the Greek Artemis, was the goddess
of the moon, twin sister of the sun-god Apollo.

As the rays of moonlight seem to pierce the air like arrows,
Diana, like Apollo, was said to carry a quiver of darts; the
slender arc of the crescent moon was her bow.
Thence it was natural to consider her fond of hunting, and
she became the special patroness of the chase and other sylvan
sports. Her favorite haunts were groves and lakes, and she blessed
the increase of field and meadow. She was mistress of the brute
creation, and showed special favor to the bear, the boar, the
dog, the goat, and the hind.
The poet Wordsworth has described how the ancient huntsman regarded
the goddess:--
"The nightly hunter lifting up his eyes Towards the crescent moon,
with grateful heart Called on the lovely wanderer who bestowed That
timely light to share his joyous sport; And hence a beaming goddess
with her nymphs Across the lawn and through the darksome grove
(Not unaccompanied with tuneful notes By echo multiplied from
rock or cave) Swept in the storm of chase, as moon and stars Glance
rapidly along the clouded heaven When winds are blowing."[8]
[Footnote 8: In _The Excursion._]

There were other pleasant beliefs about Diana such as might be
connected with the thought of the moon. As the moonlight cheers
the traveller on his way and enters the chamber of the sick and
lonely, so Diana was said to watch with the sick and help
the unfortunate. The pale, white light of the moon is a natural
symbol of purity, hence Diana was a maiden goddess above all
allurements of love. Her worship was conducted with splendid
rites in various ancient cities. The temple built in her honor at
Ephesus was famous as one of the seven wonders of the world.

The ancients naturally liked to fancy the goddess very beautiful.
The Greek poet Anacreon called her "the goddess of the sun bright
hair." The English Keats, who delighted in the old Greek myths,
has also described the charms of "the haunter chaste of river
sides, and woods and heathy waste."[9] She had "pearl round ears,
white neck, orbed brow, blush tinted cheeks," and "a paradise of
lips and eyes."

[Footnote 9: In _Endymion_. See also Lowell's _Endymion_ for a
description of Diana.]
In our picture the moon goddess is mounting her car for the nightly
course across the sky.[10] Though she seems to be but just
springing to her place, with bending knee, she is already
speeding on her way.

[Footnote 10: As Apollo drives the sun chariot across the sky by
day.
Compare Guido Reni's Aurora.]
"How tremulous-dazzlingly the wheels sweep Around their axle."

Her quiver, well filled with the bow and arrows, hangs at her
back, held by the strap bound over her breast.[11] The crescent
moon gleams above her brow. The vehicle is the small two-wheeled
chariot used among the Romans, scarcely larger than a chair. Only
the hind legs of the steeds may be seen, but we fancy them to be
two white does.

[Footnote 11: It seems odd that with this full quiver the subject
should be called by some "Diana's Return from the Chase."]

[Illustration: DIANA _Convent of S. Paolo, Parma_]
The huntress turns her face earthward, lifting a fluttering veil
high in her left hand. It is as if the face of the moon had been
hidden behind a cloud which the goddess suddenly draws aside
and shows "her fulgent head uncovered, dazzling the beholder's
sight." It is with a bright, cheerful countenance that she
beams upon her worshippers. A sense of courage and exhilaration
is expressed in her spirited bearing. With her right hand she points
forward, as if calling us to join in the sport. In the
swiftness of her motion her unbound hair and filmy garments blow
out behind her.

She is a country-bred maiden, with plump neck and round arms, and
her chief charm is her buoyant vitality.

Her open face, with eyes set rather far apart, is the index
of her nature. Her free life in the woods has developed a well
poised womanhood. Fear is unknown to her; pain and disease come not
near her. Rejoicing in immortal youth and strength, she speeds nightly
through the sky, the messenger of light and comfort.

As we have seen in the preceding chapter, the picture of Diana is
painted in fresco on the chimney cap, or hood, over the great
fireplace in the Hall of the Vine Trellis.

We may well believe that the decoration went far towards furnishing
the stately apartment.
Underneath runs the Latin inscription, "_Ignem gladio ne
fodias_," stir not the fire with the sword.

It will be remembered that the arms of the abbess, for whom the
room was decorated, bore the device of the crescent moon. This
fact may have suggested to Correggio, or his patrons, the subject
of the moon goddess.

Diana, as a virgin divinity, was an especially appropriate choice
for the apartment of a nun.

The legends of Greek mythology were at that time very popular among
people of culture, having been recently brought to notice in the
revival of classic learning. In Italy they furnished themes
for the
painter; in
England, for the poet. The English Ben Jonson,
living a half a century later than Correggio,[12] but representing
in a certain measure the same love of classic allusion, wrote a
"Hymn to Diana," which might have been inspired by this picture.

The first stanza may be quoted for its interpretation:--
"Queen and huntress, chaste and fair, Now the sun is laid to sleep,
Seated in thy silver chair, State in wonted manner keep.
Hesperus entreats thy light, Goddess excellently bright."
[Footnote 12: That is, from 1573 to 1637.]

VI
ST. JOHN THE EVANGELIST

It seemed understood among the twelve disciples of Jesus that
John was the one of their number especially beloved by the
Master. He and his brother, James, were the sons of the
fisherman Zebedee, and all three men earned their living in their
fishing-boats on the sea of Galilee.
It was while they were busy with their nets that Jesus one day called
the two brothers to be fishers of men. "And they straightway left
their nets and followed him."[13]
[Footnote 13: St. Matthew, chapter iv., verse 20.]
Under the teachings of Jesus, John grew in knowledge of spiritual
things. He was one of the three accompanying their Master to the
Mount of Transfiguration, where they witnessed a sacred scene
withheld from the others. His nature was affectionate and poetic,
and he was a deep thinker. Often when the meaning of Jesus' words
was beyond his hearers, John treasured the sayings in his
memory. On the evening when Jesus sat at table with his
disciples for the last time, John was near him, leaning on his
Master's breast.

When, on the next day, Jesus hung upon the cross, it was John to
whom he commended his mother as to a son. "And from that hour
that disciple took her unto his own home."
In the years that followed, John pursued his Christian service with
the zeal of an ardent nature. He remained awhile in Judæa and, in
company with Peter, added many converts to the faith. He then
carried the work into Asia Minor, where he founded seven churches.
Not only was he a preacher and organizer, but a voluminous writer
as well. The fourth Gospel is believed to be his work, in which he
records many words and deeds of Jesus overlooked by the other
Evangelists. He was also the writer of the three Epistles
which bear his name. Finally, he is supposed to be the author of
the book of Revelation, in which he described his visions during
his exile in the isle of Patmos.

According to tradition, he lived to a great age, and died at Ephesus
in Asia Minor.

The love with which Christians cherish the memory of St. John is
seen in the number of churches bearing his name. One such is that
in Parma which was newly built at the time when Correggio was
winning his first laurels. The most important portions of the
interior decorations were executed by our painter.

Before considering the frescoes of the cupola, the visitor to
the church likes to pause before the lunette over the door
of the left transept. The subject is St. John, seated with his
writing materials on his lap. There is a pile of books behind
him and a volume beside him. At his feet stands the symbolic eagle
pluming his wing.

[Illustration: ST. JOHN THE EVANGELIST _Church of S.

Giovanni Evangelista, Parma_]
The emblems of the Evangelists are drawn from Ezekiel's vision
of the "four living creatures," whose faces were those of a man,
a lion, an ox, and an eagle. Applied respectively to the writers
of the four Gospels, each emblem suggests some characteristic trait.
The eagle is especially appropriate to St. John. As the bird
soars into the upper regions of the sky and looks directly
at the sun, so St. John's inspiration raised him into the highest
realms of thought, where he seemed to gaze directly upon the
divine glory. It is for this that he is called St. John, "the
divine." As the Latin inscription over the lunette reads, "More
deeply than the others he disclosed the mysteries of
God."[14]
[Footnote 14: "Altius coeteris Dei patefecit arcana."]

In our picture the Evangelist lifts his eyes heavenward as if
beholding a vision. His lips are parted, and he has the rapt
expression of one absorbed in meditation. His right hand still
holds the pen as he pauses for inspiration.

In trying to do honor to the beloved disciple, the painters
have always represented him as the most beautiful of the twelve.
As the most Christ-like in character, he is made to resemble the
typical figure of Christ. So in this fresco by Correggio, he is a
beautiful youth, with the curling hair, the oval face and the
regular features we associate with the person of Jesus.

Though the beardless face is so refined, there is nothing weak or
effeminate about it. The whole figure is indeed very manly.
The head is well set on a full throat and the shoulders are
broad. Rising to his feet St. John would be a tall, athletic young
man, capable of lending a strong hand at his father's
fishing-nets. The union of strength and refinement makes the
picture one of the most attractive ideals of St. John ever
painted.

The keynote of St. John's Gospel is the love of God; his ardent
nature never wearied of the theme; the wonder in his lifted face
shows him still intent upon the mystery. Were we to seek some
characteristic utterance which should appropriately interpret
his thoughts, it might well be the words of Jesus to Nicodemus,
"God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son,
that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have
everlasting life

."[15]
[Footnote 15: St. John, chapter iii., verse 16.]

VII
ST. JOHN AND ST. AUGUSTINE

The church of S. Giovanni Evangelista (St. John the Evangelist),
in Parma, is built with a dome-shaped cupola which Correggio
filled with a fresco decoration.

The subject is drawn from the life of the apostle whose name
is given to the church: it is the vision of St. John on the isle
of Patmos. Looking up into the dome, one seems to be looking
directly into the open sky, upon the figure of Christ ascending
into heaven. The apostles sit in a circle on the clouds,
and beneath them the aged St. John kneels on the mountain top,
gazing upwards upon the vision. The heavenly spaces are alive
with angels, for, as Browning writes:--
"Correggio loves to mass, in rifts Of heaven, his angel faces, orb
on orb."

The little creatures are sporting among the clouds and, in
the poet's phrase, "waiting to see some wonder momently grow
out."
Where the dome rests upon the four arches which support it, are
four triangular corner-pieces called pendentives, which also
belong to Correggio's decorative plan. They are devoted respectively
to the figures of the four Evangelists, each one accompanied by
one of the four Fathers of the Church. The Christian Fathers
were the men whose writings and teachings shaped the doctrines of
the faith in the early centuries of our era.

They interpreted for the people the meaning of the Scriptures and the
Gospels.

The pendentive of our illustration contains St. John with St.
Augustine. The two sit side by side, engaged in a discussion over
the book which they hold together. St. John is young and beautiful,
as the painters always represent him, except in the subject of the
vision of Patmos.Salim, the son of Sayf, an old patriarch, slow
of speech, tried to appease the passions of the young men, scions
of the aristocracy of Muscat and Muttrah, and Bedaweens of the
Desert, but Khamis's bold words had made too deep an impression on
their minds.

Soud, the handsome Arab whom I have noticed already as the son of
Sayd the son of Majid, spoke: "My father used to tell me that he
remembered the days when the Arabs could go through the country
from Bagamoyo to Ujiji, and from Kilwa to Lunda, and from Usenga
to Uganda armed with canes.  Those days are gone by.  We have stood
the insolence of the Wagogo long enough.  Swaruru of Usui just
takes from us whatever he wants; and now, here is Mirambo, who
says, after taking more than five bales of cloth as tribute from
one man, that no Arab caravan shall go to Ujiji, but over his body.
Are we prepared to give up the ivory of Ujiji, of Urundi, of
Karagwah, of Uganda, because of this one man?  I say war--war
until we have got his beard under our feet--war until the whole of
Uyoweh and Wilyankuru is destroyed--war until we can again travel
through any part of the country with only our walking canes in
our hands!"

The universal assent that followed Send's speech proved beyond
a doubt that we were about to have a war.  I thought of
Livingstone.  What if he were marching to Unyanyembe directly
into the war country?

Having found from the Arabs that they intended to finish the war
quickly--at most within fifteen days, as Uyoweh was only four
marches distant--I volunteered to accompany them, take my loaded
caravan with me as far as Mfuto, and there leave it in charge of
a few guards, and with the rest march on with the Arab army.  shout
Walter Dixon. might" Atrocious villain! his rice hand, and" With the
rapidity of lightning he drew his sword, at once St. Maur, and handed
of the assassin. To Walter Dixon possession of the Penford-bourne
estates he had of received from Ireton.

The general pressed the meal progressed. by husband, Sir Andrew
had fallen by passed up it through the Expedition were lives now
him to war stay to dinner, and while between, this scene of carnage,,
Lady Eleanor was dead; her which had planned with attention the
package, extracted from him were something of his and his rightful
possession of property. But once more he was doomed to. As
soon as he seemed of an opportunity to ensure his long delayed
of him had Henry sought out General him, story
It was his own dog--the
dog he had brought with him from Masterton House, and left with
Lady Emily! How had it come there? Amazed, he was about to ask for
an explanation, when Lady Emily herself stood before him. In another
moment the lovers were in one another's arms.