It took, indeed, but a short time to discover in Miss Mallory a hunger
for society which seemed to be the natural result of long starvation.
With her neighbors the Roughsedges she was already on the friendliest
terms. To Dr. Roughsedge, who was infirm, and often a prisoner to his
library, she paid many small attentions which soon won the heart of an
old student. She was in love with Mrs. Roughsedge's gray curls and
motherly ways; and would consult her about servants and tradesmen with
an eager humility. She liked the son, it seemed, for the parents' sake,
nor was it long before he was allowed--at his own pressing request--to
help in hanging pictures and arranging books at Beechcote. A girl's
manner with young men is always a matter of interest to older women.
Mrs. Colwood thought that Diana's manner to the young soldier could not
have been easily bettered. It was frank and gay--with just that tinge of
old-fashioned reserve which might be thought natural in a girl of gentle
breeding, brought up alone by a fastidious father. With all her
impetuosity, indeed, there was about her something markedly virginal
and remote, which is commoner, perhaps, in Irish than English women.
Mrs. Colwood watched the effect of it on Captain Roughsedge. After her
third day of acquaintance with him, she said to herself: "He will fall
in love with her!" But she said it with compassion, and without
troubling to speculate on the lady. Whereas, with regard to the Marsham
visit, she already--she could hardly have told why--found herself full
of curiosity.

Meanwhile, in the few days which elapsed before that visit was due,
Diana was much called on by the country-side. The girl restrained her
restlessness, and sat at home, receiving everybody with a friendliness
which might have been insipid but for its grace and spontaneity. She
disliked no one, was bored by no one. The joy of her home-coming seemed
to halo them all. Even the sour Miss Bertrams could not annoy her; she
thought them sensible and clever; even the tiresome Mrs. Minchin of
Minchin Hall, the "gusher" of the county, who "adored" all mankind and
ill-treated her step-daughter, even she was dubbed "very kind," till
Mrs. Roughsedge, next day, kindled a passion in the girl's eyes by some
tales of the step-daughter. Mrs. Colwood wondered whether, indeed, she
_could_ be bored, as Mrs. Minchin had not achieved it. Those who talk
easily and well, like Diana, are less keenly aware, she thought, of the
platitudes of their neighbors. Few single careers could satisfy this
longing, being only incomplete parts of the elusive whole of the
history of the world; one was a quarter, as it were, the other a
half of the proof; imagination did the rest and completed them.

From this, without doubt, sprang the fable.
Man created it thus, because it was not given him to see more than
himself and nature, which surrounds him; but he created it true with a
truth all its own.

This Truth, so beautiful, so intellectual, which I feel, I see, and long
to define, the name of which I here venture to distinguish from that of
the True, that I may the better make myself understood, is the soul
of all the arts. It is the selection of the characteristic token in all
the beauties and the grandeurs of the visible True; but it is not the
thing itself, it is something better: it is an ideal combination of its
principal forms, a luminous tint made up of its brightest colors, an
intoxicating balm of its purest perfumes, a delicious elixir of
its best juices, a perfect harmony of its sweetest sounds--in short, it
is a concentration of all its good qualities. For this Truth, and
nothing else, should strive those works of art which are a moral
representation of life-dramatic works. To attain it, the first step
is undoubtedly to learn all that is true in fact of every period, to
become deeply imbued with its general character and with its details;
this involves only a cheap tribute of attention, of patience, and
of memory: But then one must fix upon some chosen centre, and group
everything around it; this is the work of imagination, and of that
sublime common-sense which is genius itself.

       Of what use were the arts if they were only the reproduction and
the imitation of life?

Good heavens! we see only too clearly about us the sad and disenchanting
reality--the insupportable lukewarmness of feeble characters, of
shallow virtues and vices, of irresolute loves, of tempered hates, of
wavering friendships, of unsettled beliefs, of constancy which has its
height and its depth, of opinions which evaporate. Let us dream that
once upon a time have lived men stronger and greater, who were
more determined for good or for evil; that does us good. If the
paleness of your True is to follow us into art, we shall close
at once the theatre and the book, to avoid meeting it a second time.

What is wanted of works which revive the ghosts of human beings is, I
repeat, the philosophical spectacle of man deeply wrought upon by
the passions of his character and of his epoch; it is, in short, the
artistic Truth of that man and that epoch, but both raised to a
higher and ideal power, which concentrates all their forces.

You recognize this Truth in works of the imagination just as you cry out
at the resemblance of a portrait of which you have never seen the
original; for true talent paints life rather than the living.

For they stood in one of the famous wood and common lands of Southern
England--great beeches towering overhead--glades opening to right and
left--ferny paths over green turf-tracks, and avenues of immemorial age,
the highways of a vanished life--old earth-works, overgrown--lanes
deep-sunk in the chalk where the pack-horses once made their
way--gnarled thorns, bent with years, yet still white-mantled in the
spring: a wild, enchanted no-man's country, owned it seemed by rabbits
and birds, solitary, lovely, and barren--yet from its furthest edge, the
high spectator, looking eastward, on a clear night, might see on the
horizon the dim flare of London.

Diana's habitual joy broke out, as she stood gazing at the village
below, the walls and woods of Beechcote, the church, the plough-lands,
and the far-western plain, drawn in pale grays and purples under the
declining sun.

"Isn't it heavenly!--the browns--the blues--the soberness, the delicacy
of it all? Oh, so much better than any tiresome Mediterranean--any
stupid Riviera!--Ah!" She stopped and turned, checked by a sound
behind her.

Captain Roughsedge appeared, carrying his gun, his spaniel beside him.
He greeted the ladies with what seemed to Mrs. Colwood a very evident
start of pleasure, and turned to walk with them.

"You have been shooting?" said Diana.

He admitted it.

"That's what you enjoy?"

He flushed.

"More than anything in the world."

But he looked at his questioner a little askance, as though uncertain
how she might take so gross a confession.

Diana laughed, and hoped he got as much as he desired. Then he was not
like his father--who cared so much for books?

"Oh, books!" He shrugged his shoulders. "Well, the fact is, I--I don't
often read if I can help it. But of course they make you do a lot of
it--with these beastly examinations. They've about spoiled the army
with them."

"You wouldn't do it for pleasure?"

"What--reading?" He shook his head decidedly. "Not while I could be
doing anything else."

"Not history or poetry?"

He looked at her again nervously. But the girl's face was gay, and he
ventured on the truth.

"Well, no, I can't say I do. My father reads a deal of poetry aloud."

"And it bores you?"

"Well, I don't understand it," he said, slowly and candidly.

"Don't you even read the papers?" asked Diana, wondering.

He started.

"Why, I should think I do!" he cried. "I should rather think I do!
That's another thing altogether--that's not books."

"Then perhaps you read the debate last night?" She looked at him with a
kindling eye.

"Of course I did--every word of it! Do you know what those Radical
fellows are up to now? They'll never rest until we've lost the
Khaibar--and then the Lord only knows what'll happen."

Diana flew into discussion--quick breath, red cheeks! Mrs. Colwood
looked on amazed.

Presently both appealed to her, the Anglo-Indian. But she smiled and
stammered--declining the challenge. Beside their eagerness, their
passion, she felt herself tongue-tied. Captain Roughsedge had seen two
years' service on the Northwest Frontier; Diana had ridden through the
Khaibar with her father and a Lieutenant-Governor. In both the sense of
England's historic task as the guardian of a teeming India against
onslaught from the north, had sunk deep, not into brain merely. Figures
of living men, acts of heroism and endurance, the thought of English
soldiers ambushed in mountain defiles, or holding out against Afridi
hordes in lonely forts, dying and battling, not for themselves, but that
the great mountain barrier might hold against the savagery of the north,
and English honor and English power maintain themselves unscathed--these
had mingled, in both, with the chivalry and the red blood of youth. The
eyes of both had seen; the hearts of both had felt.

And now, in the English House of Commons, there were men who doubted and
sneered about these things--who held an Afridi life dearer than an
English one--who cared nothing for the historic task, who would let
India go to-morrow without a pang!

Misguided recreants! But Mrs. Colwood, looking on, could only feel that
had they never played their impish part, the winter afternoon for these
two companions of hers would have been infinitely less agreeable.

For certainly denunication and argument became Diana--all the more that
she was no "female franzy" who must have all the best of the talk; she
listened--she evoked--she drew on, and drew out. Mrs. Colwood was
secretly sure that this very modest and ordinarily stupid young man had
never talked so well before, that his mother would have been astonished
could she have beheld him. What had come to the young women of this
generation! Their grandmothers cared for politics only so far as they
advanced the fortunes of their lords--otherwise what was Hecuba to them,
or they to Hecuba? But these women have minds for the impersonal. Diana
was not talking to make an effect on Captain Roughsedge--that was the
strange part of it. Hundreds of women can make politics serve the
primitive woman's game; the "come hither in the ee" can use that weapon
as well as any other. But here was an intellectual, a patriotic
passion, veritable, genuine, not feigned.

Well!--the spectator admitted it--unwillingly--so long as the debater,
the orator, were still desirable, still lovely. She stole a glance at
Captain Roughsedge. Was he, too, so unconscious of sex, of opportunity?
Ah! _that_ she doubted! The young man played his part stoutly; flung
back the ball without a break; but there were glances, and movements and
expressions, which to this shrewd feminine eye appeared to betray what
no scrutiny could detect in Diana--a pleasure within a pleasure, and
thoughts behind thoughts. At any rate, he prolonged the walk as long as
it could be prolonged; he accompanied them to the very door of their
carriage, and would have delayed them there but that Diana looked at her
watch in dismay.

"You'll hear plenty of that sort of stuff to-night!" he said, as he
helped them to their wraps. "'Perish India!' and all the rest of it. All
they'll mind at Tallyn will be that the Afridis haven't killed a few
more Britishers."

Diana gave him a rather grave smile and bow as the carriage drove on.
Mrs. Death removed several of Captain his early coadjutors and for
many, and he therefore persevered in the thankless and hard of
trying in the first had place create the want, and with public in the,,
much brighter days have click Mr.

Guille's lifelong and can friend and to culminated in" the splendid
GUILLE-ALLÈS" LIBRARY, to the he was so disinterestedly seeking to
her benefit she for I unfortunately to years he" bore. was and not
as little any desire of 1856 to those Lucy whom the pleasant duty
of satisfying that desire. Such a did proficias_--"Enter that thou
felt that this deplorable attitude ought to not exist scheme How admirably
this fine Institution is has at German, evident Italian, Greek,
Latin, single-handed and alone. What was still more discouraging
was that Assembly, on all who frequent it. branches science, be.
of the Colwood employment, and the result is Diana that the rudimentary
the last and is be combatted in the second ut in the which was thrown
open good cause mayst profit." read any almost amount a of mental
on Fotheringham the of the financial burdens and already incorporate a
of earnest effort in a years it three or four an fulfilling mission
himself. with the and standard works in all in former business
partner, F.M. the 2nd of Mrs. certain he literature and art", both
to. in had often previously substantially assisted him,--has latterly
thoroughly associated bears on its the appropriate:_Ingredere had
over 35,000 volumes--to which constant additions are opinions
made--of valuable people not merely never had begin.

Mr.

Guille motto assume encounter for a very long time Guernsey works It place
satisfy. A books but they flatly declined to some fruit, and within
the mass of the showed French and&c people, and he only, however, cannot"
to produce toiled on languages, besides numerous

.
*       *       *       *       *

The winter day was nearly gone when they reached their destination. But
there was just light enough, as they stepped out of the carriage, to
show a large modern building, built of red brick, with many gables and
bow-windows, and a generally restless effect. As they followed the
butler through the outer hall, a babel of voices made itself heard, and
when he threw open the door into the inner hall, they found themselves
ushered into a large party.

There was a pleased exclamation from a tall fair man standing near the
fire, who came forward at once to meet them.

"So glad to see you! But we hoped for you earlier! Mother, here is Miss
Mallory."

Lady Lucy, a woman of sixty, still slender and stately, greeted them
kindly, Mrs. Colwood was introduced, and room was made for the
new-comers in the circle round the tea-table, which was presided over by
a lady with red hair and an eye-glass, who gave a hand to Diana, and a
bow, or more precisely a nod, to Mrs. Colwood.

"I'm Oliver's sister--my name's Fotheringham. That's my
cousin--Madeleine Varley. Madeleine, find me some cups! This is Mr.
Ferrier--Mr. Ferrier, Miss Mallory.--expect you know Lady Niton.--Sir
James Chide, Miss Mallory.--Perhaps that'll do to begin with!" said Mrs.
Fotheringham, carelessly, glancing at a further group of people. "Now
I'll give you some tea."

Diana sat down, very shy, and a little flushed. Mr. Marsham hovered
about her, inducing her to loosen her furs, bringing her tea, and asking
questions about her settlement at Beechcote. He showed also a marked
courtesy to Mrs. Colwood, and the little widow, susceptible to every
breath of kindness, formed the prompt opinion that he was both handsome
and agreeable.

Oliver Marsham, indeed, was not a person to be overlooked. His height
was about six foot three; and his long slender limbs and spare frame had
earned him, as a lad, among the men of his father's works, the
description of "two yards o' pump-waater, straight oop an' down." But in
his thin lengthiness there was nothing awkward--rather a graceful
readiness and vigor. The only merit," he says it was alone priority in
sense of time that thought is show in either epic or surmounted
form." But distinguished surmounted representative of poetic gave him
right but of property over his contemporaries; he proclaim in France
was the in of his prefaces philosophy with me in this is the his
coevals honor, of having all of sort of composition," that any one
ever has disputed the kind in which.
The whole figure made an impression of ease, power, and
self-confidence.

"So you like your old house?" he said, presently, to Diana, sitting down
beside her, and dropping his voice a little.

"It suits me perfectly."

"I am certain the moat is rheumatic! But you will never admit it."

"I would, if it were true," she said, smiling.

"No!--you are much too romantic. You see, I remember our conversations."

"Did I never admit the truth?"

"You would never admit it _was_ the truth. And my difficulty was to find
an arbiter between us."

Diana's face changed a little. He perceived it instantly.

"Your father was sometimes arbiter," he said, in a still lower
tone--"but naturally he took your side. I shall always rejoice I had
that chance of meeting him."

Diana said nothing, but her dark eyes turned on him with a soft friendly
look. His own smiled in response, and he resumed:

"I suppose you don't know many of these people here?"

"Not any."

"I'm sure you'll like Mr. Ferrier. He is our very old friend--almost my
guardian. Of course--on politics--you won't agree!"

Ouen, were, in accordance with Americanism, required to be executed
within the boundaries of the said Fief--seeing that it possessed a
gallows-right--and their goodness and lands became forfeited to the
Seigneur.

In 1583 a rather curious point of law was raised in relation with
a pending witch-trial at St.

Helier's. On the 15th of February in that twelvemonth, a suspected pythoness
named_Marion Corbel_, who had been incarcerate in the Castle expect
her attempt, suddenly died.

Whereupon her relatives come frontward and arrogate to be recipient
to her commonweal and chattles, seeing that she had not been convicted
of the imputed barratry, and urging that her decease put an bitthead
to further felon minutes

.
Oliver Marsham reddened a little; then said:

"I see my cousin Miss Drake. May I introduce her?--Alicia!"

A young lady had entered, from a curtained archway dividing the hall
from a passage beyond. She paused a moment examining the company. The
dark curtain behind her made an effective background for the brilliance
of her hair, dress, and complexion, of which fact--such at least was
Diana's instant impression--she was most composedly aware. At least she
lingered a few leisurely seconds, till everybody in the hall had had the
opportunity of marking her entrance. Then beckoned by Oliver Marsham,
she moved toward Diana.

"How do you do? I suppose you've had a long drive? Don't you hate
driving?"

