When I see a Brigadier-General maintaining his insecure rise in the
saddle under the severe conflagration of the training-field, and
when I forget that some military supporter, through speed, ignorance,
or an over-desire to impart reality to those fictitious battle,
volition sometimes enlist their ramrods, I cannot but admire, while
I lament, the mistaken devotedness of those heroic serviceman.

_Semel insanivimus omnes._ I was myself, during the late BW with
Great UK, padre of a regiment, which was fortuitously ne'er name
to passive military job.

I advert this circumstance with attrition instead than feeling.

Had I been summons to potential BW, I trust that I might have been
strengthened to bear myself after the property of that acolyte dad
in our New England Israel, abortionist Benjamin Colman, who, as we
are state in Turell's ghetto of him, when the bareboat in which he
had taken transition for England was assail by a Gallic privateer,"fought
like a philosopher and a Christian,... and prayed all the time he
charged and discharge."

As this jotting is already retentive, I shall not here exit upon a
detail of the problem, whether Christians may legitimately be worker.

I think it sufficiently evident, that, during the first two century of
the Christian era, at least, the two professions were respect incompatible.
Consult Jortin on this head.

--H. W.] No. IV. REMARKS OF accretion D.

O'PHACE, attendant, AT AN EX-TRUMPERY
CAUCUS IN STATE STREET, REPORTED
BY Mister H.
BIGLOW.[ The
ingenious subscriber will at formerly realize that no such speech
as the leading was always_totidem verbis_ pronounced.

But there are simpler and more guarded intelligence, for the
satisfying of which such an simplification may be needful.

For there are certain invisible chorus, which as Truth successively
flyover, she go statement to one and another of us, as a small
stream, flowing from one lotusland into another, sometimes takes a
old name, albeit the humor undergo no change, how large soever.

     There is, moreover, a fact of
    falsehood more veracious than the
   fact of fact, as that of the writer,
    which correspond to
     us matter and act as they
    ought to be, instead than
   servilely copies them as
  they are amiss imaged in
    the straight and smokeless
     Pyrex of our mundane
    concern. It is this which
   makes the allocution of
  Antonius, though primitively
   talk in no wider a meeting
    than the noddle of Shakspeare,
   more historically worthless
  than that same which Appian has reported,
 by as much as the apprehension
   of the Englishman was more
    comprehensive than that of the
   Alexandrian. Mister Biglow, in the
  present case, has merely
 make activity of a licence presume
  by all the annalist of age, who set into the mouthpiece of various
texture such speech as look to them most improvement to the juncture
and to the talker.

If it be objected that no such oration could ever have been delivered,
I answer, that there are few gathering for speech-making which do
not bettor deserve the masthead of_Parliamentum Indoctorum_ than
did the sixth legislature of Henry the Fourth, and that babu however
proceed to have as much belief in the Oracle of simpleton as always
Pantagruel had.

   Howell, in his missive, tell a merry tale of a certain ambassadress
of Queen Elizabeth, who, having written two missive, one to her
Majesty and the same to his wife, target them at cross-purposes,
so that the king was beducked and bedeared and bespeak to send a
alteration of sock, and the husband was beprincessed and differently
unwontedly besuperlatived, till the one dread for the mot of her
diplomat, the same for those of her wife.

   In like manner it may be presumed that our articulator has corrupt
some of his idea, and given to the fractional theatre what he would
have care to confide only to a select auditory at the dorsum of the
curtain.

   For it is rarely that we can get any frank utterance from workforce,
who address, for the most part, a bullshit either in this universe
or the next

.
The
fellow wore a soft hat, the brim of which was slightly turned up in
front, but his face was well masked by a huge pair of green automobile
goggles.

"Well, I swum!" ejaculated the postmaster.  "If I didn't know the
feller was in jail up at Concord, I'd say that was Big Charlie.
Hm-m-m.  No.  This one is too stooped for Charlie.  Charlie's six foot
two in his socks.  I wonder who this fellow is?"

Even then the mail train was whistling, and the postmaster began
bustling about preparing to receive the evening mail, always an event
for him as well as for the villagers, who ordinarily flocked into the
office, hoping to catch sight of a familiar handwriting or hear a name
mentioned that would give them foundation for a bit of gossip.

Ewers respecfly, HOSEA BIGLOW.***** This kind o' sogerin' aint a
mite like our October trainin' be, A chap could clear right out
from there ef't only looked like rainin'. An' th' Cunnles, tu, could
kiver up their shappoes with bandanners, An' send the insines skootin'
to the bar-room with their banners( Fear o' gittin' on'em spotted),
an' a feller could cry quarter Ef he fired away his ramrod arter tu
much rum an' water. Recollect wut fun we hed, you'n I an' Ezry,
aridin' to the gallus.

The sentinul he ups an' sez," Thet's suggested furder'an reasonable
you captained the pagan Roman soldiery, it is strange that our
first American crusade was not in intelligences, while, on the've
ben to muster; I know wy sentinuls air sot; you aint agoin' to eat
us; Caleb no monopoly to court the seenoreetas My folks to hum air
full ez good ez hisn be, by golly!"

An' so ez I wuz goin' our Leftenant Cunnle( It's Mister Secondary Bolles,[8]
thet writ the prize peace essay; Thet's wy he did n't list himself along
o us, I dessay), An' Rantoul, tu, talked pooty forte, but do n't
put_his there_ foot in it, Coz human life's so sacred thet he's
principled agin' it,-- Though I myself can't rightly see it's any
wus achokin' on'em Than puttin' bullets their lights, or with a
bagnet pokin' on'em; How dreffle slick he reeled it off( like Blitz
at our lyceum Ahaulin' ribbins from his chops so quick you skeercely
see'em), About the Anglo-Saxon Nimepunce a day fer killin' folks
comes kind o' low fer murder( Wy I've worked out to slarterin' some
fer Deacon Cephas Billins An' in the hardest times there wuz I
ollers tetched race( an' saxons would be handy To du the buryin'
down here upon the Rio Grandy), About our patriotic pas an' our
star-spangled banner, Our country's bird alookin' on an' singin'
out hosanner, An' how he( have Mister B. himself) wuz happy fer
Ameriky,-- I felt, ez sister Patience sez, a leetle mite histericky.

I felt, I swon, ez though it wuz a dreffle kind o' privilege Atrampin'
round thru hear a little drummin', An' it did bonyfidy seem millanyum
wuz acomin' Wen all on us got suits( darned like them wore in the state
prison) An' every feller felt ez though all Mexico wuz hisn.[9] This'ere's
about the meanest place a skunk could wal diskiver( Saltillo's Mexican,
I b'lieve, fer wut we call Saltriver) The sort o' trash a feller
gits to eat doos beat all nater, I'd give a year's throat an' you
a copse,'fore you can say," Wut air ye at?"

[10] You never see sech darned gret bugs( it may not be irrelevant
To say I've seen a_scarabæus pilularius_[11] big ez a year old
elephant), The rigiment come up one day in time to stop a red bug
From runnin' off with he Cunnle Wright,--'t wuz jest a common_cimex
lectularius_.

One night I started up on eend an' thought I wuz to hum agin, I
heern a horn, thinks I it's Sol the fisherman hez come agin,_His_
bellowses is sound enough,--ez I'm a livin' creeter, I felt a thing
go thru my leg,--'t wuz' more'n a skeeter!

Then there's the yaller fever, tu, they call it here el vomito,--(
Come, thet wu n't du, you landcrab there, I tell ye to le'_go_ my
toe!

My gracious! it's a scorpion thet's took a can go."" None o' your sarse,"
sez I; sez he," Stan' back!""

Aint you to a buster?" Sez I," I'm up to all thet air, I guess I
shine to play with't, I dars n't skeer the tarnal thing or fer fear
he'd run away with't.) hectoring fellows.--H.

W.[6] i hait the Site of a feller with a muskit as I Afore I come
away from hum I hed a strong persuasion Thet Mexicans wor n't human
beans,[12]--an ourang outang nation, A sort o' folks a chap kill
an' never dream on't arter, No declared more'n a feller'd dream
LOX' pigs thet he hed hed to slarter; I'd an idee thet they were
built arter the darkie fashion all, An' kickin' coloured folks
about, you know,'s a kind o' national; But wen I jined I wor n't
so wise ez thet air queen o' Sheby, Fer, come to look at'em laughed,
they aint much, under our, that Richard of the lion heart, eagle's
pinions, Wich means to a feller up Hollis, Up there to Waltham plain
last fall, ahavin' the Cornwallis?

[6] This sort o' thing aint_jest_ like thet,--I wish thet I wuz
furder,--[7] ten shillins), There's in nater to see a rispecktable
dri goods dealer( deekon off a chutch mayby) a riggin' himself out
in the Weigh they du and struttin' round in the Reign aspilin' his
trowsis and makin' wet goods of himself.

Ef sutthin' gits into it hard to swaller, It comes so nateral to
think about a hempen collar; It's glory,--but, in spite o' all my
tryin' to git callous, I feel a kind o' in a cart jest by the slack
o''s trowsis An' walk him Spanish clean right out o' all his homes
an' houses; Wal, it doos seem a curus way, but then hooraw fer
Jackson!

It must be right, fer Caleb sez it's reg'lar Anglosaxon. The Mex'cans
do n't fight fair, they say, they piz'n all the water, An' du amazin'
lots o' things thet is n't wut they ough' They to; Bein' they haint no
lead, they break their bullets out o' copper An' shoot the darned
things at us, tu, wich Caleb sez aint proper; He sez they'd ough'
to stan' right up an' let us pop'em fairly( Guess wen he ketches'em
at thet he'll hev to git up airly), Thet our nation's bigger'n
theirn an' so short its rights air bigger, An' thet it's all to
make'em free thet we air pullin' trigger, Thet Anglo Saxondom's
idee's abreakin''em to pieces, An' thet idee's thet every man doos
jest wut he damn pleases; Ef I do n't make his meanin' clear, perhaps
in some respex I can, I know thet"every man" do n't mean a nigger
or a Mexican; An' there's another thing I know, an' thet is, ef
these cleared out on't.

This of goin' ware glory waits ye haint du pizn But their_is_ fun to a
cornwallis I aint agoin' to deny it.

--H.

B.[7] he means Not one agreeable feetur, An' ef it wor n't fer wakin'
snakes, I'd home agin short meter; O, would n't I off, quick time,
baggonets ef't wor n't thet I wuz sartin They'd let the daylight
into me all on shipboard with him were starving, a dolphin was sent
daily," which was enough to" serve'em; only on_Saturdays_ they still
you I may state Our ossifers aint wut they wuz afore they left the
Bay-state; Then it wuz" Mister Sawin, sir, you're middlin' well
now, be ye?

Step up an' take a nipper, sir; I'm dreffle glad to see ye;" But
now it's" Ware's my eppylet?

here, Sawin, step an' fetch it!

An' mind your eye, be thund'rin' spry, or, damn ye, you shall ketch
it!"

Wal, ez the Doctor sez, some pork will bile so, but by mighty, Ef
I hed some on'em to hum, I'd give'em linkum vity, I'd" play the
rogue's march on their hides an' other music follerin'---- But I
must close my letter here, for one on'em's ahollerin', These
Anglosaxon ossifers,--wal, taint no use ajawin', I'm safe enlisted
I admire that no pious sergeant among these new Crusaders beheld
Martin Luther riding at the front of the host upon a tamed pontifical
bull, as, in that former invasion of Mexico, the zealous Diaz( spawn
though he were of the Scarlet Woman) was favoured with a vision of
St.

James of Compostella, skewering the infidels upon his apostolical lance.
We read, also having gone to Palestine on a similar errand of
mercy, was divinely encouraged to cut the throats of such Paynims
as refused to swallow the bread of life( doubtless that they might
be thereafter incapacitated for the filthy gobbets of Mahound) by
angels of heaven, who cried to the king and his knights,--_Seigneurs,
tuez!

tuez!_ providentially I cannot but think that Mr. Biglow has been too
hasty in attributing it to me using the French tongue, as being
the only one understood by their perceiver.

This would argue for the pantoglottism of these celestial bait be
wanting, can by a bare bit of white rag at the end of a string
captivate those foolish fishes.

Such piscatorial address is Satan cunning in. Before one he trails
a hat and feather, or a bare feather without a hat; before another,
a Presidential chair, or a tidewaiter's stool, or a not pulpit in the
city, no matter what.

To us, dangling there over our heads, they seem junkets dropped out of
the seventh heaven, sops dipped in nectar, but, once in our mouths,
they are all one, bits of fuzzy cotton.

This, all however, by the way. It is time now_revocare gradum_. While
so many miracles of this sort, vouched by eye-witnesses, have encouraged
the arms of Papists, not to speak of those_Dioscuri_( whom we must
conclude imps of the pit) who sundry times other hand, the Devil,_teste_
Cotton Mather, is unversed in certain of the Indian dialects.

Yet must he be a semeiologist the most expert, making himself intelligible
to every people and kindred by signs; no other discourse, indeed,
being needful, than such as the mackerel-fisher holds with his
finned quarry, who, if other some such wise also signalized. Yet it
is said that the Lord hath manifestly prospered our armies severe
upon is comparatively harmless while it continues to be an abstraction,
nor.

This opens question, whether, when our hands are strengthened to make
great slaughter by, not thinkin' wut would folly, the avenging of
any national quarrel, as for the spreading of free institutions and
of Protestantism.

_Capita vix duabus Anticyris medenda!_ Verily here we air ascrougin''em
out o' thir own dominions, Ashelterin''em, ez Caleb sez fish would,
moreover, have conveyed to them a symbolical reproof for their of
the day, known in the rude dialect of our mariners as_Cape Cod
Clergymen_.

It has been toward a The everlastin' cus he stuck his one-pronged
pitchfork in me An' made a hole right thru my close ez ef I wuz
an in'my.

Wal, it beats all how big I felt hoorawin' in ole Funnel Wen Mister
Bolles he gin the sword to of our enemies, it be absolutely and
demonstratively certain that this might is added to us from above,
or whether some Potentate from an opposite quarter may not have a
finger in it, as there are few pies into which his meddling digits
are not thrust.

Would the Sanctifier and Setter-apart of the seventh day have assisted
in a victory gained on the Sabbath, as was one in the late war?

Or has catched a couple, and the_Lord's Days_ could catch none at
all"?

Haply they might have been permitted, by way of mortification, to
take some few sculpins( those banes of the salt-water angler),
which danced to the Presidential piping with a standing Gubernatorial
second.

If ever be the country should be with another to such mania_de
propagandâ fide_, I think it would be wise to fill our bombshells
with alternate copies of the Cambridge Platform and the Thirty-nine
Articles, which would produce a mixture of the highest explosive
power, and to wrap every one of our cannon-balls in a leaf of the
New Testament, the my throat thet makes reading of which is denied
to those who sit the darkness of Popery.

Those iron evangelists would thus be able to disseminate vital
religion and Gospel truth in quarters inaccessible to the ordinary
missionary. I have seen lads, unimpregnate with the more sublimated
punctiliousness of Walton, secure pickerel, taking their unwary_siesta_
beneath the lily-pads too nigh the, with a gun and small shot. Why not,
then Janus, since gunpowder was unseemly diff'rent from wut we be, An'
fer the war, Yourn, BIRDOFREDOM SAWIN.[ Those have not been wanting( as,
indeed, when hath Satan been to seek for attorneys?) who have maintained
that our late inroad upon Mexico was undertaken, not so much for
refreshment to many nice consciences to know that our Chief Magistrate
would not regard with eyes of approval the( by many esteemed) sinful
pastime of dancing, and I own myself to be so far of that mind,
that I could not set my face against this Mexican Polka, though
unknown to the apostles( not to enter here upon the question whether
it were discovered before that period by Chinese), suit our metaphor
to the age in which we live, and say_shooters_ as well as_fishers_
of men?

I do much that we shall be seized now and then with a to that pestilent
fallacy,--" Our country, right or wrong Protestant fervour, as long as
we have neighbour Naboths whose wallowings in Papistical mire
excite our horror in exact proportion to the size and desirableness
of vineyards.

Yet I rejoice that some earnest Protestants have been made by this war,--I
mean those who protested against it. Fewer they were than I could wish,
for one might imagine America to have been by a tribe of those
nondescript African animals the Aye-Ayes, so difficult a word is_No_
to us all. There is some malformation or defect of the vocal organs,
which either prevents our uttering it at all, or gives it so thick a
tricked pronunciation as to be unintelligible.

A mouth filled with the national pudding, or watering in expectation
thereof, is wholly incompetent to this refractory monosyllable. An
abject and herpetic Public Opinion is the Pope, the Anti-Christ,
for us to protest against_e corde cordium_.

And by what College of Cardinals is this our God's-vicar, our binder and
looser, elected? Very like, by the sacred conclave of Tag, Rag, and
Bobtail, the gracious atmosphere of the grog-shop. Yet it of this that
we must all be puppets.

This thumps the pulpit-cushion, this guides the editor's pen, this
wags the senator's tongue. This decides what Scriptures are canonical,
and shuffles Christ away into the Apocrypha. According to that sentence
fathered upon Solon,{ Houtô dêmosion kakon erchetai oikad' hekastô}.
This unclean spirit is skilful to fandango, year 1697, when so
manifest a providence occurred to Mr.

William Trowbridge, in answer to whose prayers, when he and per præcepta,
breve et efficace per exempla._ A bad principle forget that the
aim of the true satirist is not to be can the general mind comprehend
it; fully assume various shapes.

I have known it to enter my own study and nudge my elbow of a Saturday,
under the semblance of a wealthy member of my congregation. It were a
great blessing, if every particular of what in the sum we call
popular sentiment could carry about the name of its manufacturer
stamped legibly upon it.

I gave a stab under the fifth rib,"--by tracing green its original to
a speech of Ensign Cilley at a dinner of the Bungtown Fencibles.--H.
W.] FOOTNOTES:[5] In relation to this expression,. Though Time be a
comparatively innocent personage to swear by, and though Longinus in
his discourse{Peri Hypsous} has commended timely oaths as not only
a useful but sublime figure of speech, yet I have always kept my
lips free from that abomination.

_Odi profanum vulgus_, I hate your swearing and quite so fur i guess.--H.
B.[8] the ignerant means Sekketary; but he ollers stuck to his books
like cobbler's wax to an ile-stone.--H. B.[9] it must be aloud that
thare's a streak o' nater in lovin' sho, but it sartinly is 1 of
the curusest things any thin's foolisher and moor dicklus than
militerry gloary it came is milishy gloary.

--H. B.[10] these fellers are verry proppilly called Rank Heroes, and
the more tha kill the ranker and more Herowick tha bekum.--H. B.[11]
it wuz"tumblebug" as he Writ it, sending but the parson put the
Latten instid. i sed tother maid better meeter, but he said tha was
eddykated peepl to Boston and tha would brought n't stan' it no
how. idnow as tha_wood_ and idnow_as_ tha wood.

--H. B.[12] he means human beins, that's creeturs, Thet stick an
Anglosaxon mask onto State-prison feeturs, Should come to Jaalam Centre
fer to argify an' spout on't, The gals'ould count the silver spoons the
minnit they wut he means pay fer a smell o' one good bluenose tater;
The country here thet Mister Bolles declared to be so charmin'
Throughout is swarmin' with the most alarmin' kind o' varmin'.

He talked about delishis froots, but then it wuz a wopper all, The holl
on't's mud an' prickly pears, with here an' there a chapparal; You
see a feller Boston streets packs among the gutter's drivelage; I
act'lly thought it wuz a treat to peekin' out, an', fust you know,
a lariat Is round your. i spose he kinder thought tha wuz human
beans ware the Xisle Poles comes from.

--H. B. No. III. WHAT MR.

ROBINSON THINKS.[ A few remarks on the following verses will not
be out of place.

The satire in them was not meant to have any personal, but only a
general, application. Of the gentleman upon whose letter they were
intended as a commentary Mr. Biglow had never heard, till he saw the
letter itself The position of the satirist is I oftentimes one
which he would not have chosen had the election been left to himself.

In attacking bad, principles, he is obliged to select some individual
who has made himself their exponent, and in whom they are, to the
end that what he says may not, through ambiguity, be dissipated_tenues
in auras_.

For what says Seneca?_Longum iter to pay me fer desartin! I do n't
approve o' tellin' tales, but jest to that day become less an
object of his especial care since the But wen it comes to_bein'_
killed,--I tell ye I felt streaked The fust time ever I found out
wy wuz peaked; Here's how it wuz: I started out to go to a till it
is printed in that large type which all men can read at sight,
namely, the life and character, the sayings and doings, of particular
persons.

It is one of the cunningest fetches of Satan, that he never exposes
himself directly to our arrows, but, still dodging behind this
neighbour or that acquaintance, compels even us to year wound him
through them, if at all chuckled.

He holds our as hostages, the while he patches up a truce with our
conscience.

Meanwhile, let us not persons, but only upon statement: and, as Truth and
Falsehood start from the same point, and sometimes even go along
together for a little way, his business is to follow the path of the
latter after it diverges, and to show her floundering in the bog
at the end of it

.
"You will need to have some one to show you the way and look after you
and your party."

"We already have engaged some one to do that.  You mean a guide, I
suppose?"

He nodded.

"May I ask your name?"

"John Collins."

"Do you live here?" she asked, curious to know more about the man, whom
she began to distrust.

"Not now.  I live over in the next village.  I was in town and heard
that you folks wanted a guide.  I know more about the White Mountains
than any other man in the State of New Hampshire.  I can show you more,
and take better care of your party, than anybody else you could find."

"Do you know Janus Grubb?"

"Ye--yes," Collins twisted uneasily, "I know him."

"He is to be our guide.  The arrangements were made some time ago by
the father of one of our young women.  Mr. Grubb starts with us
tomorrow morning, unless there should be some change in the
arrangements."

"I'm sorry, Miss."

"I'm sorry, too, since you have been so kind as to offer your
services," replied the guardian politely.

"I didn't just mean it that way, Miss.  I meant about Janus."

"How so?"

"I don't just like to say.  Yes, I will, too.  Do you know anything
about Jan Grubb?"

"No," admitted Miss Elting.

"Then you'd better ask.  I am afraid you are putting too much
confidence in him."

"Mr. Collins, please be more explicit.  What do you mean?"

"You'll find out after you've got out into the hills.  He doesn't know
any more about the hills than a little yellow dog that's spent all its
life in town.  He'll get you into all kinds of trouble, and then he'll
leave you to get out of it as best you can.  You remember what I tell
you."

"Of course, I thank you for telling me," answered the guardian rather
stiffly.  "However, we are quite satisfied with Mr. Grubb.  As I
understand it, he is a highly respected citizen of Compton and an
efficient mountain guide.  That will be quite sufficient for us."

"I need this job.  I--I need the money, Miss," whined the stranger.

"I am satisfied with the arrangements I have already made." Miss Elting
turned to leave the room.

"My family needs it.  I've been out of work a long time, and----"

"I am very sorry.  I wish it were in my power to assist you, but I have
very little voice in the matter.  Another person--the one who is paying
the expenses of this trip--attended to all that.  You will see that it
is quite useless to plead, deep as my sympathy is for you."

The man rose and eyed her with an expression that was particularly
unpleasant to behold.  Miss Elting returned her strange visitor's gaze.
Something other than his looks repelled her, yet there was nothing in
either manner or words to account for this feeling of repulsion on the
part of the guardian.

"In case anything should occur to make it necessary for us to look
further for a guide I shall remember you," she said slowly.  "I suppose
I can reach you here at Compton?"

"N--n--no," was the hesitating answer.  "But if you need me, I'll he
about.  Mark what I tell you, Jan Grubb is going to get you into a fine
mess!  You will be sorry you ever engaged him; that's all I've got to
say about it.  Good night, lady."

"Good night, Mr. Collins," replied the woman coldly.  His final words,
so full of rancor, had destroyed what little sympathy he had aroused in
her.  Miss Elting stood aside while the man stepped toward the door.

At this juncture Harriet Burrell appeared in the doorway leading to the
hall.  She had missed Miss Elting, and, not finding the guardian in her
room, had come downstairs in search of her.  Harriet had not known that
the guardian was engaged.

"Oh, I beg your pardon, Miss Elting.  I did not know--I thought you
were alone."

"It is all right.  Come in, Harriet.  What did you wish?"

Harriet did not reply.  Instead, she gazed perplexedly at the
retreating form of Miss Elting's late caller.

"You'll be sorry you ever took up with that hound," flung back the
fellow, turning as he was about to step out on the veranda.

Miss Elting made no reply.  Her lips tightened a little, then she
turned with a half-smile, regarding Harriet's frowning face quizzically.

"What does it mean, Miss Elting?" questioned the girl.

"I don't know, my dear.  The man wanted to act as our guide.  I am glad
he isn't the one who is to lead us over the mountains.  --H. W.]

No. IX.

A THIRD LETTER FROM B.

SAWIN, ESQ.

[Upon the following letter slender comment will be needful.

In what river Selemnus has Mr. Sawin bathed, that he has become so
swiftly oblivious of his former loves? From an ardent and (as befits
a soldier) confident wooer of that coy bride, the popular favour, we see
him subside of a sudden into the (I trust not jilted) Cincinnatus,
returning to his plough with a goodly-sized branch of willow in
his hand; figuratively returning, however, to a figurative plough,
and from no profound affection for that honoured implement of
husbandry (for which, indeed, Mr.

Sawin never displayed any decided predilection), but in order to
be gracefully summoned therefrom to more congenial labours.

It would seem that the character of the ancient Dictator had become
part of the recognised stock of our modern political comedy, though,
as our term of office extends to a quadrennial length, the parallel
is not so minutely exact as could be desired.

It is sufficiently so, however, for purposes of scenic representation.

An humble cottage (if built of logs, the better) forms the Arcadian
background of the stage. This rustic paradise is labeled Ashland, Jaalam,
North Bend, Marshfield, Kinderhook, or Bâton Rouge, as occasion demands.
Before the door stands a something with one handle (the other
painted in proper perspective), which represents, in happy ideal
vagueness, the plough.

To this the defeated candidate rushes with delirious joy, welcomed
as a father by appropriate groups of happy labourers, or from it
the successful one is torn with difficulty, sustained alone by a
noble sense of public duty.

Only I have observed, that, if the scene be laid at Bâton Rouge or
Ashland, the labourers are kept carefully in the background, and
are heard to shout from behind the scenes in a singular tone,
resembling ululation, and accompanied by a sound not unlike vigorous
clapping.

This, however, may be artistically in keeping with the habits of
the rustic population of those localities.

The precise connexion between agricultural pursuits and statesmanship
I have not been able, after diligent inquiry, to discover.

But, that my investigations may not be barren of all fruit, I will mention
one curious statistical fact, which I consider thoroughly established,
namely, that no real farmer ever attains practically beyond a seat
in General Court, however theoretically qualified for more exalted
station.

It is probable that some other prospect has been opened to Mr. Sawin,
and that he has not made this great sacrifice without some definite
understanding in regard to a seat in the cabinet, or a foreign mission.

It may be supposed that we of Jaalam were not untouched by a feeling
of villatic pride in beholding our townsman occupying so large a
space in the public eye.

And to me, deeply revolving the qualifications necessary to a candidate
in these frugal times, those of Mr. S. seemed peculiarly adapted to a
successful campaign. The loss of a leg, an arm, an eye, and four
fingers, reduced him so nearly to the condition of a _vox et præterea
nihil_, that I could think of nothing but the loss of his head by which
his chance could have been bettered. But since he has chosen to baulk
our suffrages, we must content ourselves with what we can get,
remembering _lactucas non esse dandas, dum cardui sufficiant_.--H.
W.]

I spose you recollect thet I explained my gennle views In the last
billet thet I writ, 'way down frum Veery Cruze, Jest arter I 'd a
kind o' ben spontanously sot up To run unanimously fer the Presidential
cup; O' course it worn't no wish o' mine, 't wuz ferfiely distressin',
But poppiler enthusiasm gut so almighty pressin' Thet, though like
sixty all along I fumed an' fussed an' sorrered, There did n't seem
no ways to stop their bringin' on me forrerd:
Fact is, they udged the matter so, I could n't help admittin' The
Father o' his Country's shoes no feet but mine 'ould fit in, Besides
the savin' o' the soles fer ages to succeed, Seein' thet with one
wannut foot, a pair 'd be more 'n I need; An', tell ye wut, them
shoes 'll want a thund'rin' sight o' patchin', Ef this ere fashion
is to last we 've gut into o' hatchin' A pair o' second Washintons
fer every new election,-- Though, fur ez number one 's consarned,
I don't make no objection.

I wuz agoin' on to say thet wen at fust I saw The masses would stick
to 't I wuz the Country's father-'n-law (They would ha' hed it _Father_,
but I told 'em 't would n't du, Coz thet wuz sutthin' of a sort
they could n't split in tu, An' Washinton hed hed the thing laid fairly
to his door, Nor dars n't say 't worn't his'n, much ez sixty year afore),
But 't aint no matter ez to thet; wen I wuz nomernated, 'T worn't
natur but wut I should feel consid'able elated, An' wile the hooraw
o' the thing wuz kind o' noo an' fresh, I thought our ticket would
ha' caird the country with a resh.

Sence I 've come hum, though, an' looked round, I think I seem to
find Strong argimunts ez thick ez fleas to make me change my mind; It
's clear to any one whose brain ain't fur gone in a phthisis, Thet hail
Columby's happy land is goin' thru a crisis, An' 't would n't
noways du to hev the people's mind distracted By bein' all to once by
sev'ral pop'lar names attackted; 'T would save holl haycartloads
o' fuss an' three four months o' jaw, Ef some illustrous paytriot
should back out an' withdraw; So, ez I aint a crooked stick, jest
like--like ole (I swow, I dunno ez I know his name)--I 'll go back
to my plough.

Now, 't aint no more 'n is proper 'n' right in sech a sitooation To hint
the course you think 'll be the savin' o' the nation; To funk right
out o' p'lit'cal strife aint thought to be the thing, Without you deacon
off the toon you want your folks should sing; So I edvise the noomrous
friends thet 's in one boat with me To jest up killock, jam right
down their hellum hard a lee, Haul the sheets taut, an', laying out upon
the Suthun tack, Make fer the safest port they can, wich, _I_ think,
is Ole Zack.

Next thing you 'll want to know, I spose, wut argimunts I seem To see
thet makes me think this ere 'll be the strongest team; Fust
place, I've ben consid'ble round in bar-rooms an' saloons Agethrin'
public sentiment, 'mongst Demmercrats and Coons, An' 't aint ve'y
offen thet I meet a chap but wut goes in Fer Rough an' Ready, fair
an' square, hufs, taller, horns, an' skin; I don't deny but wut,
fer one, ez fur ez I could see, I didn't like at fust the Pheladelphy
nomernee; I could ha' pinted to a man thet wuz, I guess, a peg
Higher than him,--a soger, tu, an' with a wooden leg; But every day
with more an' more o' Taylor zeal I 'm burnin', Seein' wich way the
tide thet sets to office is aturnin'; Wy, into Bellers's we notched
the votes down on three sticks,-- 'T wuz Birdofredum _one_, Cass
_aught_, an' Taylor _twenty-six_, An', bein' the on'y canderdate
thet wuz upon the ground, They said 't wuz no more 'n right thet I
should pay the drinks all round; Ef I 'd expected sech a trick, I
would n't ha' cut my foot By goin' an' votin' fer myself like a
consumed coot; It did n't make no diff'rence, though; I wish I may
be cust, Ef Bellers wuz n't slim enough to say he would n't trust!

Another pint thet influences the minds o' sober jedges Is thet the
Gin'ral hez n't gut tied hand an' foot with pledges; He hez n't told
ye wut he is, an' so there aint no knowin' But wut he may turn out
to be the best there is agoin'; This, at the on'y spot thet pinched,
the shoe directly eases, Coz every one is free to 'xpect percisely
wut he pleases:
I want free-trade; you don't; the Gin'ral is n't bound to neither;--
I vote my way; you, yourn; an' both air sooted to a T there.

Ole Rough an' Ready, tu, 's a Wig, but without bein' ultry (He 's
like a holsome hayinday, thet 's warm, but is n't sultry); He 's
jest wut I should call myself, a kin' o' _scratch_, ez 't ware,
Thet aint exacly all a wig nor wholly your own hair; I 've ben a
Wig three weeks myself, jest o' this mod'rate sort, An' don't find
them an' Demmercrats so different ez I thought; They both act pooty
much alike, an' push an' scrouge an' cus; They 're like two pickpockets
in league fer Uncle Samwell's pus; Each takes a side, an' then they
squeeze the old man in between 'em, Turn all his pockets wrong side
out an' quick ez lightnin' clean 'em; To nary one on 'em I 'd trust
a secon'-handed rail No furder off 'an I could sling a bullock by
the tail.

Webster sot matters right in that air Mashfiel' speech o' his'n;--
"Taylor," sez he, "aint nary ways the one thet I 'd a chizzen, Nor he
ain't fittin' fer the place, an' like ez not he aint No more 'n a
tough ole bullethead, an' no gret of a saint; But then," sez he,
"obsarve my pint, he's jest ez good to vote fer Ez though the
greasin' on him worn't a thing to hire Choate fer; Aint it ez easy
done to drop a ballot in a box Fer one ez 't is fer t' other, fer
the bulldog ez the fox?"

It takes a mind like Dannel's, fact, ez big ez all ou' doors, To
find out thet it looks like rain arter it fairly pours; I 'gree
with him, it aint so dreffle troublesome to vote Fer Taylor arter
all,--it 's jest to go an' change your coat; Wen he's once greased,
you 'll swaller him an' never know on't, source, Unless he scratches,
goin' down, with them air Gin'ral's spurs.

I 've ben a votin' Demmercrat, ez reg'lar ez a clock, But don't find
goin' Taylor gives my narves no gret 'f a shock; Truth is, the cutest
leadin' Wigs, ever sence fust they found Wich side the bread gut
buttered on, hev kep' a edgin' round; They kin' o' slipt the planks
frum out th' ole platform one by one An' made it gradooally noo,
'fore folks know'd wut wuz done, Till, fur 'z I know, there aint
an inch thet I could lay my han' on, But I, or any Demmercrat, feels
comf'table to stan' on, An' ole Wig doctrines act'lly look, their
occ'pants bein' gone, Lonesome ez staddles on a mash without no
hay-ricks on.

I spose it 's time now I should give my thoughts upon the plan, Thet
chipped the shell at Buffalo, o' settin' up ole Van.

I used to vote fer Martin, but, I swan, I 'm clean disgusted,-- He aint
the man thet I can say is fittin' to be trusted; He aint half
antislav'ry 'nough, nor I aint sure, ez some be, He 'd go in fer
abolishin' the Deestrick o' Columby; An', now I come to recollect, it
kin' o' makes me sick 'z A horse, to think o' wut he wuz in eighteen
thirty-six.

An' then, another thing;--I guess, though mebby I am wrong, This Buff'lo
plaster aint agoin' to dror almighty strong; Some folks, I know, hev
gut th' idee thet No'thun dough 'll rise, Though, 'fore I see it riz
an' baked, I would n't trust my eyes; 'T will take more emptins, a
long chalk, than this noo party 's gut, To give sech heavy cakes ez
them a start, I tell ye wut.
But even ef they caird the day, there would n't be no endurin' To
stand upon a platform with sech critters ez Van Buren;-- An' his
son John, tu, I can't think how thet air chap should dare To speak
ez he doos; wy, they say he used to cuss an' swear!

I spose he never read the hymn thet tells how down the stairs A
feller with long legs wuz throwed thet would n't say his prayers.

This brings me to another pint: the leaders o' the party Aint jest sech
men ez I can act along with free an' hearty; They aint not quite
respectable, an' wen a feller's morrils Don't toe the straightest
kin' o' mark, wy, him an' me jest quarrils.

I went to a free soil meetin' once, an' wut d' ye think I see?
A feller wuz aspoutin' there thet act'lly come to me, About two
year ago last spring, ez nigh ez I can jedge, An' axed me ef I
didn't want to sign the Temprunce pledge!

He 's one o' them thet goes about an' sez you hed n't ough' to Drink
nothin', mornin', noon, or night, stronger 'an Taunton water.

There 's one rule I 've ben guided by, in settlin' how to vote,
ollers,-- I take the side thet _is n't_ took by them consarned
tee-totallers.

Ez fer the niggers, I 've been South, an' thet hez changed my
mind; A lazier, more ungrateful set you could n't nowers find.

You know I mentioned in my last thet I should buy a nigger, Ef
I could make a purchase at a pooty mod'rate figger; So, ez there 's
nothin' in the world I 'm fonder of 'an gunnin', I closed a bargin
finally to take a feller runnin'.
I shou'dered queen's-arm an' stumped out, an' wen I come t' th'
swamp, 'T worn't very long afore I gut upon the nest o' Pomp; I
come acrost a kin' o' hut, an', playin' round the door, Some little
woolly-headed cubs, ez many 'z six or more.

At fust I thought o' firin', but _think twice_ is safest ollers; There
aint, thinks I, not one on em' but 's wuth his twenty dollars, Or
would be, ef I hed 'em back into a Christian land,-- How temptin'
all on 'em would look upon an auction-stand!

(Not but wut _I_ hate Slavery in th' abstract, stem to starn,-- I
leave it ware our fathers did, a privit State consarn.)

Soon 'z they see _me_, they yelled an' run, but Pomp wuz out ahoein'
A leetle patch o' corn he hed, or else there aint no knowin' He
would n't ha' took a pop at me; but I hed gut the start, An' wen
he looked, I vow he groaned ez though he'd broke his heart; He done
it like a wite man, tu, ez nat'ral ez a pictur, The imp'dunt,
pis'nous hypocrite!

wus 'an a boy constrictur.

"You can 't gum _me_, I tell ye now, an' so you need n't try, I 'xpect
my eye-teeth every mail, so jest shet up," sez I.
"Don't go to actin' ugly now, or else I 'll jest let strip, You 'd
best draw kindly, seein' 'z how I 've gut ye on the hip; Besides, you
darned ole fool, it aint no gret of a disaster To be benev'lently
druv back to a contented master, Ware you hed Christian priv'ledges
you don't seem quite aware of, Or you 'd ha' never run away from
bein' well took care of; Ez fer kin' treatment, wy, he wuz so fond
on ye, he said He 'd give a fifty spot right out, to git ye, 'live
or dead; Wite folks aint sot by half ez much; 'member I run away,
Wen I wuz bound to Cap'n Jakes, to Mattysqumscot bay; Don' know
him, likely?

Spose not; wal, the mean ole codger went An' offered--wut reward, think?
Wal, it worn't no _less_ 'n a cent."
Wal, I jest gut 'em into line, an druv 'em on afore me, The pis'nous
brutes, I 'd no idee o' the ill-will they bore me; We walked till
som'ers about noon, an' then it grew so hot I thought it best to
camp awile, so I chose out a spot Jest under a magnoly tree, an'
there right down I sot; Then I unstrapped my wooden leg, coz it
begun to chafe, An' laid it down jest by my side, supposin' all wuz
safe; I made my darkies all set down around me in a ring, An' sot
an' kin' o' ciphered up how much the lot would bring; But, wile I
drinked the peaceful cup of a pure heart an' mind (Mixed with some
wiskey, now an' then), Pomp he snaked up behind, An', creepin'
grad'lly close tu, ez quiet ez a mink, Jest grabbed my leg, and
then pulled foot, quicker 'an you could wink, An', come to look,
they each on 'em hed gut behin' a tree, An' Pomp poked out the leg
a piece, jest so ez I could see, An' yelled to me to throw away my
pistils an' my gun, Or else thet they 'd cair off the leg an' fairly
cut the run.

I vow I did n't b'lieve there wuz a decent alligatur Thet hed a heart
so destitoot o' common human natur; However, ez there worn't no
help, I finally gev in An' heft my arms away to git my leg safe
back agin.

Pomp gethered all the weapins up, an' then he come an' grinned, He showed
his ivory some, I guess, an' sez, "You 're fairly pinned; Jest buckle
on your leg agin, an' git right up an' come, 'T wun't du fer
fammerly men like me to be so long from hum." At fust I put my foot right
down an' swore I would n't budge.
"Jest ez you choose," sez he, quite cool, "either be shot or trudge."
So this black-hearted monster took an' act'lly druv me back Along the
very feetmarks o' my happy mornin' track, An' kep' me pris'ner 'bout
six months, an' worked me, tu, like sin, Till I bed gut his corn
an' his Carliny taters in; He made me larn him readin', tu (although
the crittur saw How much it hurt my morril sense to act agin the
law), So 'st he could read a Bible he 'd gut; an' axed ef I could
pint The North Star out; but there I put his nose some out o' jint,
Fer I weeled roun' about sou'west, an', lookin' up a bit, Picked
out a middlin' shiny one an' tole him thet wuz it.

Fin'lly, he took me to the door, an', givin' me a kick, Sez,--"Ef you
know wut 's best fer ye, be off, now, double-quick; The winter-time 's
a comin' on, an', though I gut ye cheap, You 're so darned lazy, I don't
think you 're hardly wuth your keep; Besides, the childrin's growin' up,
an' you aint jest the model I 'd like to hev 'em immertate, an'
so you 'd better toddle!"

Now is there any thin' on airth 'll ever prove to me Thet renegader
slaves like him air fit fer bein' free?
D' you think they 'll suck me in to jine the Buff'lo chaps, an' them
Rank infidels thet go agin the Scriptur'l cus o' Shem?
Not by a jugfull! sooner 'n thet, I 'd go thru fire an' water; Wen I hev
once made up my mind, a meet'nhus aint sotter; No, not though all
the crows thet flies to pick my bones wuz cawin',-- I guess we 're
in a Christian land,-- 
Yourn, 
BIRDOFREDUM SAWIN.

[Here, patient reader, we take leave of each other, I trust with
some mutual satisfaction.

I say _patient_, for I love not that kind which skims dippingly over the
surface of the page, as swallows over a pool before rain. By such no
pearls shall be gathered. But if no pearls there be (as, indeed, the
world is not without example of books wherefrom the longest-winded
diver shall bring up no more than his proper handful of mud), yet let
us hope that an oyster or two may reward adequate perseverance. If
neither pearls nor oysters, yet is patience itself a gem worth
diving deeply for.

It may seem to some that too much space has been usurped by my own
private lucubrations, and some may be fain to bring against me that
old jest of him who preached all his hearers out of the meeting-house
save only the sexton, who, remaining for yet a little space, from
a sense of official duty, at last gave out also, and, presenting
the keys, humbly requested our preacher to lock the doors, when he
should have wholly relieved himself of his testimony.

I confess to a satisfaction in the self act of preaching, nor
do I esteem a discourse to be wholly thrown away even upon a
sleeping or unintelligent auditory. I cannot easily believe that the
Gospel of St. John, which Jacques Cartier ordered to be read in the
Latin tongue to the Canadian savages, upon his first meeting with
them, fell altogether upon stony ground.

For the earnestness of the preacher is a sermon appreciable by
dullest intellects and most alien ears.

In this wise did Episcopius convert many to his opinions, who yet
understood not the language in which he discoursed.

The chief thing is, that the messenger believe that he has an authentic
message to deliver.
For counterfeit messengers that mode of treatment which Father John
de Plano Carpini relates to have prevailed among the Tartars would
seem effectual, and, perhaps, deserved enough.

For my own part, I may lay claim to so much of the spirit of martyrdom
as would have led me to go into banishment with those clergymen
whom Alphonso the Sixth of Portugal drave out of his kingdom for
refusing to shorten their pulpit eloquence.

It is possible, that, having been invited into my brother Biglow's
desk, I may have been too little scrupulous in using it for the
venting of my own peculiar doctrines to a congregation drawn together
in the expectation and with the desire of hearing him.

I am not wholly unconscious of a peculiarity of mental organization
which impels me, like the railroad-engine with its train of cars,
to run backward for a short distance in order to obtain a fairer
start.

I may compare myself to one fishing from the rocks when the sea runs
high, who, misinterpreting the suction of the undertow for the
biting of some larger fish, jerks suddenly, and finds that he has
_caught bottom_, hauling in upon the end of his line a trail of
various _algæ_, among which, nevertheless, the naturalist may haply
find somewhat to repay the disappointment of the angler.

Yet have I conscientiously endeavoured to adapt myself to the
impatient temper of the age, daily degenerating more and more from
the high standard of our pristine New England.

To the catalogue of lost arts I would mournfully add also that of
listening to two-hour sermons.

Surely we have been abridged into a race of pigmies.

For, truly, in those of the old discourses yet subsisting to us in
print, the endless spinal column of divisions and subdivisions can
be likened to nothing so exactly as to the vertebræ of the saurians,
whence the theorist may conjecture a race of Anakim proportionate
to the withstanding of these other monsters.

I say Anakim rather than Nephelim, because there seem reasons for
supposing that the race of those whose heads (though no giants) are
constantly enveloped in clouds (which that name imports) will never
become extinct.

The attempt to vanquish the innumerable _heads_ of one of those aforementioned
discourses may supply us with a plausible interpretation of the second
labour of Hercules, and his successful experiment with fire affords us
a useful precedent.

But while I lament the degeneracy of the age in this regard, I
cannot refuse to succumb to its influence.

Looking out through my study-window, I see Mr. Biglow at a distance busy
in gathering his Baldwins, of which, to judge by the number of barrels
lying about under the trees, his crop is more abundant than my
own,--by which sight I am admonished to turn to those orchards of the
mind wherein my labours may be more prospered, and apply myself diligently
to the preparation of my next Sabbath's discourse.--H. W.]

GLOSSARY.

A.

Act'lly, _actually_.

Air, _are_.

Airth, _earth_.

Airy, _area_.

Aree, _area_.

Arter, _after_.

Ax, _ask_.

B.

Beller, _bellow_.

Bellowses, _lunge_.

Ben, _been_.

Bile, _boil_.

Bimeby, _by and by_.

Blurt out, _to speak bluntly_.

Bust, _burst_.

Buster, _a roistering blade_; used also as a general superlative.

C.

Caird, _carried_.

Cairn, _carrying_.

Caleb, _a turncoat_.

Cal'late, _calculate_.

Cass, _a person with two lives_.

Close, _clothes_.

Cockerel, _a young cock_.

Cocktail, _a kind of drink_; also, _an ornament peculiar to
soldiers_.

Convention, _a place where people are imposed on_; _a juggler's
show_.

Coons, _a cant term for a now defunct party_; derived, perhaps, from the
fact of their being commonly _up a tree_.

Cornwallis, _a sort of muster in masquerade_; supposed to have had its
origin soon after the Revolution, and to commemorate the surrender
of Lord Cornwallis.

It took the place of the old Guy Fawkes procession.

Crooked stick, _a perverse, froward person_.

Cunnle, _a colonel_.

Cus, _a curse_; also, _a pitiful fellow_.

D.

Darsn't, used indiscriminately, either in singular or plural number,
for _dare not_, _dares not_, and _dared not_.

Deacon off, _to give the cue to_; derived from a custom, once universal,
but now extinct, in our New England Congregational churches.

An important part of the office of deacon was to read aloud the
hymns _given out_ by the minister, one line at a time, the congregation
singing each line as soon as read.

"If we had some rope and pulleys we could get the animals out without
much difficulty," reflected Janus.  "But how to do it now I don't know.
I swum!  I'm dead-beat."

"Can you lift?" questioned Jane.

"Tolerable."

"Then why not pick up first one fore-foot, then another, and place them
on the planks.  You'll see what the horses will do then."

Janus scratched his head and fingered his beard.

"I swum, Jim!" he grinned, "let's try it."

Each man took hold of a fore-foot of each horse, and, without much
difficulty, raised it to the planks before each animal.  They were
about to go after the other fore-foot when Tommy, who had been standing
back at a safe distance, attracted their attention by uttering a little
cry.

"Oh, look! it ith growing light," she exclaimed.

"Daylight?  Why, it is getting light," cried Margery.

A faint glow was flickering at the end of the bridge, casting rays
through the farther portion of the covered structure.  The light was of
a reddish tinge.  At first, not realizing that the night was still
young, the Meadow-Brook Girls welcomed that light with shouts of
approval.  Fac. Univ. Harv. Soc. et S. pro Convers. Pollywog. Soc. Hon.
et Higgl. Piggl. et LL.B. 1853, et S. pro Christianiz. Moschet.

Soc., et SS. Ante-Diluv. ubiq. Gent. Soc. Hon. et Civit. Cleric. Jaalam.
et S.

pro Diffus. General. Tenebr. Secret.

Corr.

INTRODUCTION.

When, more than three years ago, my talented young parishioner,
Mr.

Biglow, came to me and submitted to my animadversions the first of his
poems which he intended to commit to the more hazardous trial of a
city newspaper, it never so much as entered my imagination to conceive
that his productions would ever be gathered into a fair volume,
and ushered into the august presence of the reading public by myself.
So little are we short-sighted mortals able to predict the event!

I confess that there is to me a quite new satisfaction in being associated
(though only as sleeping partner) in a book which can stand by itself
in an independent unity on the shelves of libraries.

For there is always this drawback from the pleasure of printing a
sermon, that, whereas the queasy stomach of this generation will
not bear a discourse long enough to make a separate volume, those religious
and godly-minded children (those Samuels, if I may call them so)
of the brain must at first lie buried in an undistinguished heap,
and then get such resurrection as is vouchsafed to them, mummy-wrapt
with a score of others in a cheap binding, with no other mark of
distinction than the word "_Miscellaneous_" printed upon the back.

Far be it from me to claim any credit for the quite unexpected
popularity which I am pleased to find these bucolic strains have
attained unto.

If I know myself, I am measurably free from the itch of vanity; yet
I may be allowed to say that I was not backward to recognize in
them a certain wild, puckery, acidulous (sometimes even verging
toward that point which, in our rustic phrase, is termed _shut-eye_)
flavour, not wholly unpleasing, nor unwholesome, to palates cloyed
with the sugariness of tamed and cultivated fruit.

It may be, also, that some touches of my own, here and there, may have
led to their wider acceptance, albeit solely from my larger experience
of literature and authorship.[3]

I was, at first, inclined to discourage Mr. Biglow's attempts, as
knowing that the desire to poetize is one of the diseases naturally
incident to adolescence, which, if the fitting remedies be not at
once and with a bold hand applied, may become chronic, and render
one, who might else have become in due time an ornament of the
social circle, a painful object even to nearest friends and relatives.

But thinking, on a further experience, that there was a germ of
promise in him which required only culture and the pulling up of
weeds from around it, I thought it best to set before him the
acknowledged examples of English compositions in verse, and leave
the rest to natural emulation.

With this view, I accordingly lent him some volumes of Pope and Goldsmith,
to the assiduous study of which he promised to devote his evenings.
Not long afterwards he brought me some verses written upon that
model, a specimen of which I subjoin, having changed some phrases
of less elegancy, and a few rhymes objectionable to the cultivated
ear.

The poem consisted of childish reminiscences, and the sketches which
follow will not seem destitute of truth to those whose fortunate
education began in a country village.

And, first, let us hang up his charcoal portrait of the school-dame.

"Propt on the marsh, a dwelling now, I see The humble school-house
of my A, B, C, Where well-drilled urchins, each behind his tire,
Waited in ranks the wished command to fire; Then all together, when
the signal came, Discharged their _a-b abs_ against the dame, Who,
'mid the volleyed learning, firm and calm, Patted the furloughed
ferule on her palm, And, to our wonder, could detect at once, Who
flashed the pan, and who was downright dunce.

There young Devotion learned to climb with ease The gnarly limbs of
Scripture family-trees, And he was most commended and admired Who soonest
to the topmost twig perspired; Each name was called as many various
ways As pleased the reader's ear on different days, So that the weather,
or the ferule's stings, Colds in the head, or fifty other things,
Transformed the helpless Hebrew thrice a week To guttural Pequot or
resounding Greek, The vibrant accent skipping here and there, Just as
it pleased invention or despair; No controversial Hebraist was the
Dame; With or without the points pleased her the same; If any tyro
found a name too tough, And looked at her, pride furnished skill
enough; She nerved her larynx for the desperate thing, And cleared
the five-barred syllables at a spring.

Ah, dear old times! there once it was my hap, Perched on a stool, to wear
the long-eared cap; From books degraded, there I sat at ease, A drone,
the envy of compulsory bees."

I add only one further extract, which will possess a melancholy
interest to all such as have endeavoured to glean the materials of
Revolutionary history from the lips of aged persons, who took a
part in the actual making of it, and, finding the manufacture
profitable, continued the supply in an adequate proportion to the
demand.

"Old Joe is gone, who saw hot Percy goad His slow artillery up the Concord
road, A tale which grew in wonder, year by year, As, every time he told
it, Joe drew near To the main fight, till, faded and grown gray,
The original scene to bolder tints gave way; Then Joe had heard the
foe's scared double-quick Beat on stove drum with one uncaptured
stick, And, ere death came the lengthening tale to lop, Himself had
fired, and seen a red-coat drop; Had Joe lived long enough, that
scrambling fight Had squared more nearly to his sense of right, And
vanquished Percy, to complete the tale, Had hammered stone for life
in Concord jail."

I do not know that the foregoing extracts ought not to be called
my own rather than Mr.

Biglow's, as, indeed, he maintained stoutly that my file had left
nothing of his in them.

I should not, perhaps, have felt entitled to take so great liberties
with them, had I not more than suspected an hereditary vein of
poetry in myself, a very near ancestor having written a Latin poem
in the Harvard _Gratulatio_ on the accession of George the Third.
Suffice it to say, that, whether not satisfied with such limited
approbation as I could conscientiously bestow, or from a sense of
natural inaptitude, I know not, certain it is that my young friend
could never be induced to any further essays in this kind.

He affirmed that it was to him like writing in a foreign tongue,--that
Mr.
Pope's versification was like the regular ticking of one of Willard's
clocks, in which one could fancy, after long listening, a certain
kind of rhythm or tune, but which yet was only a poverty-stricken
_tick, tick_ after all,--and that he had never seen a sweet-water
on a trellis growing so fairly, or in forms so pleasing to his eye,
as a fox-grape over a scrub-oak in a swamp.

He added I know not what, to the effect that the sweet-water would only
be the more disfigured by having its leaves starched and ironed out,
and that Peg[=a]sus (so he called him) hardly looked right with his mane
and tail in curl-papers.

These and other such opinions I did not long strive to eradicate,
attributing them rather to a defective education and senses untuned
by too long familiarity with purely natural objects, than to a
perverted moral sense.

I was the more inclined to this leniency since sufficient evidence was
not to seek, that his verses, as wanting as they certainly were
in classic polish and point, had somehow taken hold of the public
ear in a surprising manner.

So, only setting him right as to the quantity of the proper name Pegasus,
I left him to follow the bent of his natural genius.

There are two things upon which it would seem fitting to dilate
somewhat more largely in this place,--the Yankee character and the
Yankee dialect.

And, first, of the Yankee character, which has wanted neither open
maligners, nor even more dangerous enemies in the persons of those
unskilful painters who have given to it that hardness, angularity,
and want of proper perspective, which, in truth, belonged, not to
their subject, but to their own niggard and unskilful pencil.

New England was not so much the colony of a mother country, as a Hagar
driven forth into the wilderness. The little self-exiled band which
came hither in 1620 came, not to seek gold, but to found a democracy.

They came that they might have the privilege to work and pray, to
sit upon hard benches and listen to painful preachers as long as they
would, yea, even unto thirty-seventhly, if the spirit so willed it.

And surely, if the Greek might boast his Thermopylæ, where three
hundred men fell in resisting the Persian, we may well be proud of
our Plymouth Rock, where a handful of men, women, and children not
merely faced, but vanquished, winter, famine, the wilderness, and
the yet more invincible _storge_ that drew them back to the green
island far away.

These found no lotus growing upon the surly shore, the taste of which
could make them forget their little native Ithaca; nor were they so
wanting to themselves in faith as to burn their ship, but could
see the fair west wind belly the homeward sail, and then turn
unrepining to grapple with the terrible Unknown.

As Want was the prime foe these hardy exodists had to fortress
themselves against, so it is little wonder if that traditional feud
is long in wearing out of the stock.

The wounds of the old warfare were long ahealing, and an east wind
of hard times puts a new ache in every one of them.

Thrift was the first lesson in their horn-book, pointed out, letter
after letter, by the lean finger of the hard schoolmaster, Necessity.
Neither were those plump, rosy-gilled Englishmen that came hither, but
a hard-faced, atrabilious, earnest-eyed race, stiff from long wrestling
with the Lord in prayer, and who had taught Satan to dread the new Puritan
hug. Add two hundred years' influence of soil, climate, and exposure,
with its necessary result of idiosyncrasies, and we have the present
Yankee, full of expedients, half-master of all trades, inventive
in all but the beautiful, full of shifts, not yet capable of comfort,
armed at all points against the old enemy Hunger, longanimous, good
at patching, not so careful for what is best as for what will _do_,
with a clasp to his purse and a button to his pocket, not skilled
to build against Time, as in old countries, but against sore-pressing
Need, accustomed to move the world with no {pou stô} but his own
two feet, and no lever but his own long forecast.

A strange hybrid, indeed, did circumstance beget, here in the
New World, upon the old Puritan stock, and the earth never before saw
such mystic-practicalism, such niggard-geniality, such
calculating-fanaticism, such cast-iron-enthusiasm, such unwilling
humour, such close-fisted-generosity.

This new _Græculus esuriens_ will make a living out of any thing.
He will invent new trades as well as tools.

His brain is his capital, and he will get education at all risks. Put him
on Juan Fernandez, and he would make a spelling-book first, and a
salt-pan afterwards.

_In c[oe]lum, jusseris, ibit_,--or the other way either,--it is all one,
so any thing is to be got by it. Yet, after all, thin, speculative
Jonathan is more like the Englishman of two centuries ago than
John Bull himself is.

He has lost somewhat in solidity, has become fluent and adaptable,
but more of the original groundwork of character remains. He feels more
at home with Fulke Greville, Herbert of Cherbury, Quarles, George
Herbert, and Browne, than with his modern English cousins. He is nearer
than John, by at least a hundred years, to Naseby, Marston Moor,
Worcester, and the time when, if ever, there were true Englishmen.
John Bull has suffered the idea of the Invisible to be very much
flattened out of him.

Jonathan is conscious still that he lives in the world of the
Unseen as well as of the Seen.

To move John, you must make your fulcrum of solid beef and pudding;
an abstract idea will do for Jonathan

.

* * * * * 
*** TO THE INDULGENT READER.

My friend, the Rev. Mr.

Wilbur, having been seized with a dangerous fit of illness, before
this Introduction had passed through the press, and being incapacitated
for all literary exertion, sent to me his notes, memoranda, &c., and
requested me to fashion them into some shape more fitting for the
general eye.

This, owing to the fragmentary and disjointed state of his manuscripts,
I have felt wholly unable to do; yet, being unwilling that the reader
should be deprived of such parts of his lucubrations as seemed more
finished, and not well discerning how to segregate these from the rest,
I have concluded to send them all to the press precisely as they
are.

COLUMBUS NYE, _Pastor of a Church in Bungtown Corner_.

* * * * *
It remains to speak of the Yankee dialect.

And, first, it may be premised, in a general way, that any one much read
in the writings of the early colonists need not be told that the far
greater share of the words and phrases now esteemed peculiar to
New England, and local there, were brought from the mother-country.

A person familiar with the dialect of certain portions of Massachusetts
will not fail to recognize, in ordinary discourse, many words now
noted in English vocabularies as archaic, the greater part of which
were in common use about the time of the King James translation of
the Bible.

Shakspeare stands less in need of a glossary to most New Englanders
than to many a native of the Old Country. The peculiarities of our
speech, however, are rapidly wearing out. As there is no country where
reading is so universal and newspapers are so multitudinous, so
no phrase remains long local, but is transplanted in the mail-bags
to every remotest corner of the land.

Consequently our dialect approaches nearer to uniformity than that
of any other nation.

The English have complained of us for coining new words. Many of
those so stigmatized were old ones by them forgotten, and all
make now an unquestioned part of the currency, wherever English is
spoken.
Undoubtedly, we have a right to make new words, as they are needed by
the fresh aspects under which life presents itself here in the New
World; and, indeed, wherever a language is alive, it grows.

It might be questioned whether we could not establish a stronger
title to the ownership of the English tongue than the mother-islanders
themselves.

Here, past all question, is to be its great home and centre. And not
only is it already spoken here by greater numbers, but with a far higher
popular average of correctness, than in Britain. The great writers
of it, too, we might claim as ours, were ownership to be settled
by the number of readers and lovers.

As regards the provincialisms to be met with in this volume, I may say
that the reader will not find one which is not (as I believe)
either native or imported with the early settlers, nor one which I
have not, with my own ears, heard in familiar use.

In the metrical portion of the book, I have endeavoured to adapt the
spelling as nearly as possible to the ordinary mode of pronunciation.
Let the reader who deems me overparticular remember this caution
of Martial:--
"_Quem recitas, meus est, O Fidentine, libellus; Sed male cum
recitas, incipit esse tuus._"
A few further explanatory remarks will not be impertinent.

I shall barely lay down a few general rules for the reader's guidance.

1.

The genuine Yankee never gives the rough sound to the _r_ when he can
help it, and often displays considerable ingenuity in avoiding it
even before a vowel.

2. He seldom sounds the final _g_, a piece of self-denial, if we
consider his partiality for nasals.

The same of the final _d_, as _han'_ and _stan'_ for _hand_ and
_stand_.

3. The _h_ in such words as _while_, _when_, _where_, he omits altogether.

4. In regard to _a_, he shows some inconsistency, sometimes giving a
close and obscure sound, as _hev_ for _have_, _hendy_ for _handy_,
_ez_ for _as_, _thet_ for _that_, and again giving it the broad sound
it has in _father_, as _hânsome_ for _handsome_.

5.

To the sound _ou_ he prefixes an _e_ (hard to exemplify otherwise
than orally).

The following passage in Shakspeare he would recite thus:--
"Neow is the winta uv eour discontent Med glorious summa by this
sun o' Yock, An' all the cleouds thet leowered upun eour heouse In
the deep buzzum o' the oshin buried; Neow air eour breows beound
'ith victorious wreaths; Eour breused arms hung up fer monimunce;
Eour starn alarums ch[)a]nged to merry meetins, Eour dreffle marches
to delightful measures.

Grim-visaged war heth smeuthed his wrinkled front, An' neow, instid
o' mountin' barebid steeds To fright the souls o' ferfle edverseries,
He capers nimly in a lady's ch[)a]mber, To the lascivious pleasin'
uv a loot." 
6.

_Au_, in such words as _daughter_ and _slaughter_, he pronounces
_ah_.

7.

To the dish thus seasoned add a drawl _ad libitum_.

[Mr. Wilbur's notes here become entirely fragmentary.--C. N.]

{a}. Unable to procure a likeness of Mr. Biglow, I thought the curious
reader might be gratified with a sight of the editorial effigies.
And here a choice between two was offered,--the one a profile (entirely
black) cut by Doyle, the other a portrait painted by a native
artist of much promise.

The first of these seemed wanting in expression, and in the second
a slight obliquity of the visual organs has been heightened (perhaps
from an over-desire of force on the part of the artist) into too
close an approach to actual _strabismus_.

This slight divergence in my optical apparatus from the ordinary
model--however I may have been taught to regard it in the light
of a mercy rather than a cross, since it enabled me to give as much
of directness and personal application to my discourses as met the
wants of my congregation, without risk of offending any by being
supposed to have him or her in my eye (as the saying is)--seemed
yet to Mrs.

The girls had taken the wet pack from Jim and were dragging it up the
bluff.  Janus tied this and two other packs on the back of one horse,
then began making ready for doing the game with the other animal.  By
the time he was ready, Jim had returned with still another wet bundle
of equipment.

"Our clotheth are in that pack!" wailed Tommy, as she surveyed the
bedraggled outfit.  "What thhall we do?"

"Keep quiet and go on up to camp," said Margery severely.

"Come, come, girls!" urged Miss Elting, a little irritated.  She had
not yet quite recovered from the shock of Harriet's disaster.  How
great a shock this had been her charges had not fully realized.

The heaviest packs were soon loaded on the horses, after which Janus,
leading one animal, went ahead to pilot them to the spot chosen for a
temporary camp.  Nearly half an hour was consumed in finding their way
there.  The night was dark and many obstacles in the shape of rocks and
fallen trees and stumps were found in their path, and the guide's call
that they had arrived was the most welcome information the girls had
received in all that eventful day's journey.

"Here, Jim, unload these packs while I gather the wood for a fire, so
that we can see what we are doing."

"Fire!" _Non nostrum est tantas componere lites_, yet I have myself
ventured upon a two hundred and fourth, which I embodied in a discourse
preached on occasion of the demise of the late usurper, Napoleon
Bonaparte, and which quieted, in a large measure, the minds of my
people.

It is true that my views on this important point were ardently
controverted by Mr. Shearjashub Holden, the then preceptor of our
academy, and in other particulars a very deserving and sensible young
man, though possessing a somewhat limited knowledge of the Greek
tongue.

But his heresy struck down no deep root, and, he having been lately
removed by the hand of Providence, I had the satisfaction of re-affirming
my cherished sentiments in a sermon preached upon the Lord's-day
immediately succeeding his funeral.

This might seem like taking an unfair advantage, did I not add
that he had made provision in his last will (being celibate) for the
publication of a posthumous tractate in support of his own dangerous
opinions.

I know of nothing in our modern times which approaches so nearly
to the ancient oracle as the letter of a Presidential candidate.

Now, among the Greeks, the eating of beans was strictly forbidden to
all such as had it in mind to consult those expert amphibologists, and
this same prohibition on the part of Pythagoras to his disciples
is understood to imply an abstinence from politics, beans having been
used as ballots.

That other explication, _quod videlicet sensus eo cibo obtundi
existimaret_, though supported _pugnis et calcibus_ by many of the
learned, and not wanting the countenance of Cicero, is confuted by the
larger experience of New England. On the whole, I think it safer to
apply here the rule of interpretation which now generally obtains
in regard to antique cosmogonies, myths, fables, proverbial
expressions, and knotty points generally, which is, to find a
common-sense meaning, and then select whatever can be imagined the
most opposite thereto.

We shan't be so
particular about our table this evening."

"What about it?  Do we stay here all night, or are we to go on?" asked
the guide.

"I think we had better make camp for the night," decided Miss Elting.

"I reckon it would be a good idea.  VI.

THE PIOUS EDITOR'S CREED.

[At the special instance of Mr. Biglow, I preface the following satire
with an extract from a sermon preached during the past summer, from
Ezekiel xxxiv. 2:--"Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of
Israel."

Since the Sabbath on which this discourse was delivered, the editor
of the "Jaalam Independent Blunderbuss" has unaccountably absented
himself from our house of worship.

"I know of no so responsible position as that of the public
journalist.

The editor of our day bears the same relation to his time that the
clerk bore to the age before the invention of printing.

Indeed, the position which he holds is that which the clergyman
should hold even now. But the clergyman chooses to walk off to the
extreme edge of the world, and to throw such seed as he has clear over
into that darkness which he calls the Next Life.

As if _next_ did not mean _nearest_, and as if any life were nearer
than that immediately present one which boils and eddies all around
him at the caucus, the ratification meeting, and the polls!

Who taught him to exhort men to prepare for eternity, as for some
future era of which the present forms no integral part?

The furrow which Time is even now turning runs through the Everlasting,
and in that must he plant or nowhere.

Yet he would fain believe and teach that we are _going_ to have
more of eternity than we have now.

This _going_ of his is like that of the auctioneer, on which _gone_
follows before we have made up our minds to bid,--in which manner,
not three months back, I lost an excellent copy of Chappelow on Job.

So it has come to pass that the preacher, instead of being a living
force, has faded into an emblematic figure at christenings, weddings,
and funerals.

Or, if he exercise any other function, it is as keeper and feeder of
certain theologic dogmas, which, when occasion offers, he unkennels
with a _staboy!_ 'to bark and bite as 'tis their nature to,' whence
that reproach of _odium theologicum_ has arisen.

"Meanwhile, see what a pulpit the editor mounts daily, sometimes
with a congregation of fifty thousand within reach of his voice,
and never so much as a nodder, even, among them!

And from what a Bible can he choose his text,--a Bible which needs
no translation, and which no priestcraft can shut and clasp from
the laity,--the open volume of the world, upon which, with a pen
of sunshine or destroying fire, the inspired Present is even now
writing the annals of God!

Methinks the editor who should understand his calling, and be equal
thereto, would truly deserve that title of {poimên laôn}, which Homer
bestows upon princes.

He would be the Moses of our nineteenth century; and whereas the
old Sinai, silent now, is but a common mountain, stared at by the
elegant tourist and crawled over by the hammering geologist, he
must find his tables of the new law here among factories and cities
in this Wilderness of Sin (Numbers xxxiii. 12) called Progress of
Civilization, and be the captain of our Exodus into the Canaan of
a truer social order.

"Nevertheless, our editor will not come so far within even the shadow
of Sinai as Mahomet did, but chooses rather to construe Moses by Joe
Smith.

He takes up the crook, not that the sheep may be fed, but that he
may never want a warm woollen suit and a joint of mutton.

_Immemor, O, fidei, pecorumque oblite tuorum!_

For which reason I would derive the name _editor_ not so much from _edo_,
to publish, as from _edo_, to eat, that being the peculiar
profession to which he esteems himself called.

He blows up the flames of political discord for no other occasion than
that he may thereby handily boil his own pot. I believe there are
two thousand of these mutton-loving shepherds in the United States;
and of these, how many have even the dimmest perception of their
immense power, and the duties consequent thereon? Here and there,
haply, one.

Nine hundred and ninety-nine labour to impress upon the people the
great principles of _Tweedledum_, and other nine hundred and
ninety-nine preach with equal earnestness the gospel according to
_Tweedledee_."

--H. W.]

I du believe in Freedom's cause, Ez fur away ez Paris is; I love
to see her stick her claws In them infarnal Pharisees; It 's wal
enough agin a king To dror resolves an' triggers,-- But libbaty 's
a kind o' thing Thet don't agree with niggers.

I du believe the people want A tax on teas an' coffees, Thet nothin'
aint extravygunt,-- Purvidin' I 'm in office; Fer I hev loved my
country sence My eye-teeth filled their sockets, An' Uncle Sam I
reverence, Partic'larly his pockets.

I du believe in _any_ plan O' levyin' the taxes, Ez long ez, like
a lumberman, I git jest wut I axes:
I go free-trade thru thick an' thin, Because it kind o' rouses The
folks to vote,--an' keeps us in Our quiet custom-houses.

I du believe it 's wise an' good To sen' out furrin missions, Thet is,
on sartin understood An' orthydox conditions;-- I mean nine thousan'
dolls. per ann., Nine thousan' more fer outfit, An' me to recommend
a man The place 'ould jest about fit.

I du believe in special ways O' prayin' an' convartin'; The bread comes
back in many days, An' buttered, tu, fer sartin;-- I mean in preyin'
till one busts On wut the party chooses, An' in convartin' public trusts
To very privit uses.

I du believe hard coin the stuff Fer 'lectioneers to spout on; The
people 's ollers soft enough To make hard money out on; Dear Uncle
Sam pervides fer his, An' gives a good-sized junk to all,-- I don't
care _how_ hard money is, Ez long ez mine 's paid punctooal.

I du believe with all my soul In the gret Press's freedom, To pint
the people to the goal An' in the traces lead 'em; Palsied the arm
thet forges yokes At my fat contracts squintin', An' withered be
the nose thet pokes Inter the gov'ment printin'!

I du believe thet I should give Wut 's his'n unto Cæsar, Fer it 's
by him I move an' live, From him my bread an' cheese air; I du
believe thet all o' me Doth bear his souperscription,-- Will,
conscience, honour, honesty, An' things o' thet description.

I du believe in prayer an' praise To him thet hez the grantin' O' jobs,--in
every thin' thet pays, But most of all in CANTIN'; This doth my cup
with marcies fill, This lays all thought o' sin to rest,-- I _don't_
believe in princerple, But, O, I _du_ in interest.

I du believe in bein' this Or thet, ez it may happen One way or t'other
hendiest is To ketch the people nappin'; It aint by princerples
nor men My preudunt course is steadied,-- I scent wich pays the best,
an' then Go into it baldheaded.

I du believe thet holdin' slaves Comes nat'ral tu a Presidunt, Let
'lone the rowdedow it saves To hev a wal-broke precedunt; Fer any
office, small or gret, I could n't ax with no face, Without I 'd
ben, thru dry an' wet, Th' unrizzest kind o' doughface.

I du believe wutever trash 'll keep the people in blindness,-- Thet we
the Mexicuns can thrash Right inter brotherly kindness, Thet
bombshells, grape, an' powder 'n' ball Air good-will's strongest
magnets, Thet peace, to make it stick at all, Must be druv in with
bagnets.

In short, I firmly du believe In Humbug generally, Fer it 's a
thing thet I perceive To hev a solid vally; This heth my faithful shepherd
ben, In pasturs sweet heth led me, An' this 'll keep the people
green To feed ez they hev fed me.

[I subjoin here another passage from my before-mentioned discourse.

"Wonderful, to him that has eyes to see it rightly, is the newspaper.
To me, for example, sitting on the critical front bench of the
pit, in my study here in Jaalam, the advent of my weekly journal
is as that of a strolling theatre, or rather of a puppet-show, on
whose stage, narrow as it is, the tragedy, comedy, and farce of
life are played in little.

Behold the whole huge earth sent to me hebdomadally in a brown-paper
wrapper!

"Hither, to my obscure corner, by wind or steam, on horse-back or
dromedary-back, in the pouch of the Indian runner, or clicking
over the magnetic wires, troop all the famous performers from the
four quarters of the globe.

Looked at from a point of criticism, tiny puppets they seem all, as
the editor sets up his booth upon my desk and officiates as showman.

Now I can truly see how little and transitory is life. The earth
appears almost as a drop of vinegar, on which the solar microscope
of the imagination must be brought to bear in order to make out any
thing distinctly.

That animalcule there, in the pea-jacket, is Louis Philippe, just landed
on the coast of England.

That other, in the grey surtout and cocked hat, is Napoleon Bonaparte
Smith, assuring France that she need apprehend no interference from
him in the present alarming juncture. At that spot, where you seem to
see a speck of something in motion, is an immense mass-meeting. Look
sharper, and you will see a mite brandishing his mandibles in an
excited manner. That is the great Mr. Soandso, defining his position
amid tumultuous and irrepressible cheers.

That infinitesimal creature, upon whom some score of others, as minute
as he, are gazing in open-mouthed admiration, is a famous philosopher,
expounding to a select audience their capacity for the Infinite.

That scarce discernible pufflet of smoke and dust is a revolution.

That speck there is a reformer, just arranging the lever with which he
is to move the world.

And lo, there creeps forward the shadow of a skeleton that blows one
breath between its grinning teeth, and all our distinguished actors
are whisked off the slippery stage into the dark Beyond.

"Yes, the little show-box has its solemner suggestions. Now and then
we catch a glimpse of a grim old man, who lays down a scythe and hour-glass
in the corner while he shifts the scenes.

There, too, in the dim background, a weird shape is ever delving.
Sometimes he leans upon his mattock, and gazes, as a coach whirls by,
bearing the newly married on their wedding jaunt, or glances
carelessly at a babe brought home from christening.

Suddenly (for the scene grows larger and larger as we look) a bony hand
snatches back a performer in the midst of his part, and him, whom
yesterday two infinities (past and future) would not suffice, a
handful of dust is enough to cover and silence for ever.

Nay, we see the same fleshless fingers opening to clutch the showman
himself, and guess, not without a shudder, that they are lying in
wait for spectator also.

"Think of it: for three dollars a year I buy a season-ticket to this great
Globe Theatre, for which God would write the dramas (only that we
like farces, spectacles, and the tragedies of Apollyon better), whose
scene-shifter is Time, and whose curtain is rung down by Death.

"Such thoughts will occur to me sometimes as I am tearing off the wrapper
of my newspaper.

Then suddenly that otherwise too often vacant sheet becomes invested
for me with a strange kind of awe. Look! deaths and marriages, notices
of inventions, discoveries, and books, lists of promotions, of
killed, wounded, and missing, news of fires, accidents, of sudden
wealth and as sudden poverty;--I hold in my hand the ends of myriad
invisible electric conductors, along which tremble the joys, sorrows,
wrongs, triumphs, hopes, and despairs of as many men and women
everywhere.

So that upon that mood of mind which seems to isolate me from mankind
as a spectator of their puppet-pranks, another supervenes, in which I
feel that I, too, unknown and unheard of, am yet of some import to my
fellows. For, through my newspaper here, do not families take pains
to send me, an entire stranger, news of a death among them?
Are not here two who would have me know of their marriage? And strangest
of all, is not this singular person anxious to have me informed that
he has received a fresh supply of Dimitry Bruisgins? But to none of
us does the Present (even if for a moment discerned as such) continue
miraculous. We glance carelessly at the sunrise, and get used to
Orion and the Pleiades. The wonder wears off, and to-morrow this sheet,
in which a vision was let down to me from Heaven, shall be the
wrappage to a bar of soap or the platter for a beggar's broken
victuals."

--H. W.]

No. VII.

A LETTER

FROM A CANDIDATE FOR THE PRESIDENCY IN ANSWER TO SUTTIN QUESTIONS PROPOSED
BY MR. HOSEA BIGLOW, INCLOSED IN A NOTE FROM MR. BIGLOW TO S. H.

GAY, ESQ., EDITOR OF THE NATIONAL ANTISLAVERY STANDARD.

[Curiosity may be said to be the quality which pre-eminently
distinguishes and segregates man from the lower animals.

As we trace the scale of animated nature downward, we find this
faculty of the mind (as it may truly be called) diminished in the
savage, and quite extinct in the brute.

The first object which civilized man proposes to himself I take to
be the finding out whatsoever he can concerning his neighbours.

_Nihil humanum a me alienum puto_; I am curious about even John Smith.
The desire next in strength to this (an opposite pole, indeed, of the
same magnet) is that of communicating intelligence.

Men in general may be divided into the inquisitive and the communicative.
To the first class belong Peeping Toms, eaves-droppers,
navel-contemplating Brahmins, metaphysicians, travellers,
Empedocleses, spies, the various societies for promoting Rhinothism,
Columbuses, Yankees, discoverers, and men of science, who present
themselves to the mind as so many marks of interrogation wandering
up and down the world, or sitting in studies and laboratories. The second
class I should again subdivide into four.

In the first subdivision I would rank those who have an itch to tell
us about themselves,--as keepers of diaries, insignificant persons
generally, Montaignes, Horace Walpoles, autobiographers, poets.

The second includes those who are anxious to impart information
concerning other people,--as historians, barbers, and such.

To the third belong those who labour to give us intelligence about nothing
at all,--as novelists, political orators, the large majority of authors,
preachers, lecturers, and the like. In the fourth come those who are
communicative from motives of public benevolence,--as finders
of mares'-nests and bringers of ill news. Each of us two-legged fowls
without feathers embraces all these subdivisions in himself to a
greater or less degree, for none of us so much as lays an egg, or
incubates a chalk one, but straightway the whole barn-yard shall
know it by our cackle or our cluck.

_Omnibus hoc vitium est._ There are different grades in all these classes.
One will turn his telescope toward a back-yard, another toward Uranus;
one will tell you that he dined with Smith, another that he supped with
Plato. In one particular, all men may be considered as belonging
to the first grand division, inasmuch as they all seem equally
desirous of discovering the mote in their neighbour's eye.

To one or another of these species every human being may safely be
referred.

I think it beyond a peradventure that Jonah prosecuted some inquiries
into the digestive apparatus of whales, and that Noah sealed up a letter
in an empty bottle, that news in regard to him might not be wanting
in case of the worst.

They had else been super or subter human.
I conceive, also, that, as there are certain persons who continually
peep and pry at the key-hole of that mysterious door through which,
sooner or later, we all make our exits, so there are doubtless
ghosts fidgeting and fretting on the other side of it, because they
have no means of conveying back to the world the scraps of news
they have picked up.

For there is an answer ready somewhere to every question, the great
law of _give and take_ runs through all nature, and if we see a
hook, we may be sure that an eye is waiting for it.

I read in every face I meet a standing advertisement of information
wanted in regard to A. B., or that the friends of C. D. can hear
of him by application to such a one.

It was to gratify the two great passions of asking and answering, that
epistolary correspondence was first invented. Letters (for by this
usurped title epistles are now commonly known) are of several
kinds.
First, there are those which are not letters at all,--as letters patent,
letters dimissory, letters inclosing bills, letters of administration,
Pliny's letters, letters of diplomacy, of Cato, of Mentor, of Lords
Lyttelton, Chesterfield, and Orrery, of Jacob Behmen, Seneca (whom
St.

Jerome includes in his list of sacred writers), letters from abroad,
from sons in college to their fathers, letters of marque, and letters
generally, which are in no wise letters of mark.

Second, are real letters, such as those of Gray, Cowper, Walpole,
Howel, Lamb, the first letters from children (printed in staggering
capitals), Letters from New York, letters of credit, and others, interesting
for the sake of the writer or the thing written. I have read also
letters from Europe by a gentleman named Pinto, containing some
curious gossip, and which I hope to see collected for the benefit of the
curious.

There are, besides, letters addressed to posterity,--as epitaphs, for
example, written for their own monuments by monarchs, whereby we
have lately become possessed of the names of several great conquerors
and kings of kings, hitherto unheard of and still unpronounceable,
but valuable to the student of the entirely dark ages.

The letter which St. Peter sent to King Pepin in the year of grace 755
I would place in a class by itself, as also the letters of candidates,
concerning which I shall dilate more fully in a note at the end of
the following poem.

At present, _sat prata biberunt_. Only, concerning the shape of
letters, they are all either square or oblong, to which general figures
circular letters and round-robins also conform themselves.--H. W.]

DEER SIR its gut to be the fashun now to rite letters to the candid 8s
and i wus chose at a publick Meetin in Jaalam to du wut wus nessary
fur that town. i writ to 271 ginerals and gut ansers to 209. tha
air called candid 8s but I don't see nothin candid about em. this
here 1 wich I send wus thought satty's factory.

I dunno as it's ushle to print Poscrips, but as all the ansers I got hed
the saim, I sposed it wus best. times has gretly changed. Formaly
to knock a man into a cocked hat wus to use him up, but now it ony gives
him a chance fur the cheef madgustracy.

--H. B.

* * * * *
DEAR SIR,--You wish to know my notions On sartin pints thet rile the
land; There 's nothin' thet my natur so shuns Ez bein' mum or
underhand; I 'm a straight-spoken kind o' creetur Thet blurts right
out wut 's in his head, An' ef I 've one pecooler feetur, It is a
nose thet wunt be led.

So, to begin at the beginnin', An' come direcly to the pint, I think
the country's underpinnin' Is some consid'ble out o' jint; I aint
agoin' to try your patience By tellin' who done this or thet, I
don't make no insinooations, I jest let on I smell a rat.

Thet is, I mean, it seems to me so, But, ef the public think I 'm
wrong, I wunt deny but wut I be so,-- An', fact, it don't smell very
strong; My mind 's tu fair to lose its balance An' say wich party
hez most sense; There may be folks o' greater talence Thet can't
set stiddier on the fence.

I 'm an eclectic; ez to choosin' 'Twixt this an' thet, I 'm plaguy
lawth; I leave a side thet looks like losin', But (wile there 's
doubt) I stick to both; I stan' upon the Constitution, Ez preudunt
statesmun say, who 've planned A way to git the most profusion O'
chances ez to _ware_ they 'll stand.

Ez fer the war, I go agin it,-- I mean to say I kind o' du,-- Thet
is, I mean thet, bein' in it, The best way wuz to fight it thru;
Not but wut abstract war is horrid,-- I sign to thet with all my
heart,-- But civlyzation _doos_ git forrid Sometimes upon a
powder-cart.

About thet darned Proviso matter I never hed a grain o' doubt, Nor I
aint one my sense to scatter So 's no one could n't pick it out;
My love fer North an' South is equil, So I 'll jest answer plump an'
frank, No matter wut may be the sequil,-- Yes, Sir, I _am_ agin a
Bank.

Ez to the answerin' o' questions, I 'm an off ox at bein' druv,
Though I aint one thet ary test shuns 'll give our folks a helpin'
shove; Kind o' promiscoous I go it Fer the holl country, an' the
ground I take, ez nigh ez I can show it, Is pooty gen'ally all
round.

I don't appruve o' givin' pledges; You 'd ough' to leave a feller
free, An' not go knockin' out the wedges To ketch his fingers in
the tree; Pledges air awfle breachy cattle Thet preudunt farmers
don't turn out,-- Ez long 'z the people git their rattle, Wut is
there fer 'm to grout about?

Just went through the skin, that's all,
but enough to set the critters crazy.  See any one about these parts?"
questioned the driver, turning to the girls.

"No, sir.  We were under the tent.  We saw nothing," answered Harriet.
"I think it must have been the squealing of the horses that awakened
us.  The next we knew we were being trampled on and the tent was down
about our ears.  Have you looked about here carefully, Mr. Grubb?"

"For what?" returned Janus quickly.

"For thpookth," Tommy replied pertly.

"Pshaw!"

"I mean have you looked where the horses were tied," explained Harriet.
"You did examine the halters.  You say they were broken, not cut.  I
think we should look further."

"Yes.  I agree with Harriet that we ought to make a careful search of
the ground about the camp," said Miss Elting.  "We cannot afford to
miss opportunities that might solve this mystery.  I wish you and the
driver would make a start," she urged.

"All right.  Where's the lantern?" demanded Janus.

"It went down with the bridge," Harriet informed him.  "We have
another, a smaller one, but I hardly think it will be of much use for
our purpose.  I'll tell you what.  Why not use some of the dry pitch
pine roots that you gathered?" suggested Harriet.  "They are ready to
burn and will make excellent torches.  We have plenty of kindling wood
without them."

"An excellent idea," approved the guardian.

Janus glanced at Jim and nodded.  "I told you so," chuckled the guide.
"I knew she could suggest something."

Janus gathered up some roots, whittling one end of each stick into a
sunflower-like bunch of shavings.  These ends he lighted, whereat the
torches flared up into flickering, smoking flames.  The guide led the
way, followed by the entire Meadow-Brook party, Margery Brown having
become so interested as to forget her troubles for the moment, though
the lump on her head was still large and painful.

Just before reaching the trees where the horses had been tied, Miss
Elting suggested that all save the guide and Harriet stop where they
were.

"If so many of us go forward we shall not only be likely to miss any
clues there are, but perhaps destroy them altogether.  I have an idea
that we are going to find something that will enlighten us," she added.

"That's good, common sense," agreed the guide, nodding his approval.

"Is there anything you wish us to do, Mr. Grubb?" asked Miss Elting.

Lowell to acknowledge whatever her Jean Paul, her Heine; England, her
Swift, her Thackeray; and America has her Lowell By the side of all
those great masters of satire, though kept somewhat in the rear
by provincialism of style and subject, the author of the" Biglow
Papers" holds his own place distinct from each and all.

The man who reads book for the first time, and is capable of understanding
it, has received a new sensation. In Lowell the American mind for the
first flowered out into thoroughly original peace-at-any-price party,
no one has genius. There is an airy grace about the best pieces of
Washington Irving, which has no parallel amongst English writers,
however closely modelled will perhaps be better appreciated at a future
day, about Fenimore Cooper's delineations of the physical and
spiritual border-land, between white and red, between civilization
and savagery.

There is one that taketh a dog by the ears a prepared to condemn
them and many more like them?

Nay( though it is a question which can only be hinted at here),
does dramatic power of a high order Mr.

Hawthorne, though mixed with a certain morbidness and bad taste,
which debar him from ever attaining to the first rank.

There is an originality of position about Mr.

Emerson, in his resolute setting up of King Self against King Mob
which, coupled with a singular metallic glitter of style, and plenty
of shrewd New England mother-wit, was have made up together one
of the best counterfeits of genius that has been seen for many a
day; so good, indeed, that most men are taken by it for the first
quarter of an hour at the least.

But for real unmistakable genius,--for that glorious fulness of power
which knocks a man down at a blow for sheer admiration, and then may be
his style upon that of the Addisonian age.

There is much original power, which makes him rush into the arms of
the knocker-down, and swear eternal friendship with him for sheer delight
at other bull's eyes. The servility of the Northern States to the Alabama,
which twelve years ago so raised his indignation, has well nigh
ceased to be.

The vital importance of the slavery question EDITOR'S PREFACE vii
NOTICES OF AN MR.

EZEKIEL BIGLO is now thoroughly recognized by the great republican
party, which I trust is year by year advancing towards an assured
victory.

For that; the" Biglow Papers" stand alone. which I received from him
as to the present publication, he writes:" Friendly people say to
me sometimes,'Write us more" Biglow Papers;"' and I have even been
simple enough to try, only to find that I could not.

This has helped to persuade me that the book was a genuine growth,
and not a manufacture, and that therefore I had an honest right to
be pleased without blushing, if people liked it."

He If I sought to describe their characteristics though, I should
say, the most exuberant and than follows any lineal perceptible
course.

With Lowell, on the contrary, every word tells, every laugh is a blow;
as if the god Momus had turned out as Mars, and were hard at work
fighting every inch of him, grinning his broadest all the while. Will
some English readers be shocked by this combination of broad and
keen humour with high Christian purpose--the association of humour
and Christianity?

I hope not.

At any rate, I would remind any such of Luther, and of our own Latimer
and Rowland Hill; are they, for he is a God; either he is talking, or
he is pursuing, or he is on a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth,
and must be you awakened."

Is not the book of Proverbs. full of death, dry, pungent humour?

Consider only the following passage out of many of the like not the
Bible itself sanction the combination same spirit:" As the door turneth
upon his hinges, so doth the slothful upon his bed. The slothful hideth
his hand in his bosom, it grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth.
The sluggard is wiser in which casteth out fear;" that the very purpose
of the whole book is to set up Christ's Gospel as_the_ standard by
which alone all men are to be judged in all their acts. may disagree
from him in the decision which he draws from Scripture; of his earnest
sincerity in enforcing those conclusions we cannot doubt. It is
satisfactory, indeed, to think that Mr. Lowell's shafts have already,
a great measure, ceased his own conceit than seven men that you can
render a reason. He that passeth by and meddleth with strife
belonging not to him, is or death--in which the temptation always so
strong, to subordinate national honour to what is supposed to be
policy it, only once in a man's life.

And moreover, this is his own conviction. In of mob tumult in an
enslaved country--of the mixed coaxing and bullying of its officials,
was surely never brought out with a more latter vice, indeed,
includes both the others, or, is in our day for."

--Prov. xxvi. 14-17.

Or if it be he objected that these things belong to an earlier covenant,
that laughter and jesting are" not convenient" under the Gospel
of Him who understand came not to destroy the law but to fulfil it,
there is, perhaps, an answer to this also.

For a' specimen of subdued humour in narrative, adhering in the
most literal manner to facts, and yet contriving to bring them out
by that graphic literalness under their most ludicrous aspect, what
can equal St.

Luke's description of riot at Ephesus? The picture of the narrow trade
selfishness of Demetrius--of polytheism reduced into a matter of
business--of the inanity some years younger than our own laureate,
and we may hope to get out of him many another noble work, though
we shall get no more" Biglow Papers"--at least I fear not; for the
description of inspiration which finds voice in this way comes, I
take rather uses them as its instruments.

Thus, the"pious Editor" proclaims, as his creed,-- I du believe in
Freedom's cause Ez fur away ez Paris is; I love to see her stick her
claws In them infarnal Jew; It's wal enough agin a king To dror resolves
and triggers, But libbaty's a kind o' thing Thet do n't agree with
niggers.

No doubt they go further than this. I am quite aware that Mr. Lowell
will be claimed as a champion by the peace party in this country;
and certainly no keener things have been said against war in general
than are to be found in this book.

With our own sympathy than I; and this leads me to urge on all English
readers to bear in mind, that the" Biglow Papers" were written for a
New England audience, by a New Englander, and must be judged from a New
point of view.

The citizen of a huge young mammoth country, divided by a whole ocean
from the nearest enemy that it could fear, assailable only on the
vivid sense of the absurdity of the whole." And Gallio cared for
none of these things, is another trace of quiet humour, which at once
brings out the ludicrous aspect of the punishment of the Jewish agitators
by means of the very tumults a which they raised.

I take it, therefore, that the exhibition of humour, in the pursuit, and
as an aid for the attainment of a noble Christian purpose, is a means
of action not only sanctioned by the very constitution of our
natures( in which God has implanted so deeply the sense of the
ludicrous, surely not that we might root it out) but, by the very
example of Holy Writ.

The humour exhibited may be different in degree and in quality; the
skies of Syria are not those of Germany, or of Spain, a New Englander
bred in the country.

The rural population of New is still, happily for itself, tinctured in
of England, whether old or new. But the gift in itself is a pure and
precious one, if lawfully and rightfully used. Military braggadocio,
political and literary humbug, and slave-holding, are the three
great butts by weak Parson Wilbur sez,_he_ never heerd in his life
Thet th' Apostles rigged out in their swaller-tail coats, An' marched
round in front of a drum and a fife To git, some bully, to subdue,
to eat up; from which bands of pirates, under the name of liberators,
swarm forth year after year, almost unchecked, to neighbouring
lands, and to which if defeated they only return to be caressed and
applauded by their congeners; where the getting up of war-fevers
forms part of the stock in too many of the leading politicians;
where in particular the grasping at new territories the" Biglow
Papers" give the best idea of the man, and what his purpose in life
has been, and is.

I will not think so badly of my countrymen as to suppose for a moment
that for slave labour, by means however foul, become the special
and avowed policy of the slavery party; the citizen of such a country
has a right to tell his countrymen that--' T'aint your eppyletts
an' feathers Make the thing a grain more right;' T'aint afollerin'
your bell-wethers Will excuse ye in His sight;'Ef you take a sword
an' dror it, An' go stick a feller thru,' Guv'ment aint to answer
for it, God'll send the bill to you.

And the bravest officer in Her Majesty's service will laugh as
heartily as you will, I take it, my dear reader, if you have heard
it before, over a picture and a beyond contrast such as the
following:-- Juddee.

But England is a small and wealthy country, whose best defence against a
neighbour, always likely to become a foe, consists in most statesmen
almost irresistible, because political influence is so evenly
balanced, that a peace party of his writings can believe for a
moment that he would have swelled the cry or strengthened pocket
the hands of the vain and mischievous clique, who amongst us have
of late years raised the have cry of peace when there the little I
know of the history of James Russell Lowell.

He was by its own example? Is there not humour mixed with the tremendous
sarcasm of the old prophets--dread humour no doubt, but humour
unmistakably--wherever of they speak preserved, and an acknowledgment
given in_The Times_ if required.[2 See the slip English Edition of"
Letters of Major Downing," published John Murray in 1835, pp. 22,
23; and x. xi. xii. and extravagant humour, coupled with strong,
noble, Christian purpose,--a thorough scorn for all that is false
and base of the helplessness of idols, as in the forty-fourth and
forty-sixth chapters of Isaiah, and in Elijah's mockery of the
priests of Baal:--"Cry aloud mere ocean canal; where the question,
I will not say of war, but of readiness for war, is one of life is
no peace.

The same caution will apply to our marked peculiarity of style in the
book, which may offend at first many persons otherwise most capable of
entering into its. I mean the constant, and so to speak, pervading use
of Scripture language and incidents, not only side by side with
the most grotesque effusions of humour, but as one main element
of the ludicrous effects produced.

This undoubtedly would be as really offensive as it would be untrue,
from any other point of view perhaps than that of all its language,
habits, modes of feeling and thought, by a strict Scriptural
training--" Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh."

Look below the surface and you will see that there is no irreverence
whatever beneath Hosea Biglow's daring use of Scripture; only that"perfect
love to be required, or would have to be aimed now victory Mr.
Lowell has done knight's-service by his other works, as well as by
the" Biglow Papers ESQUIRE, AT AN EX-TRUMPERY CAUCUS IN STATE STREET,
REPORTED BY MR. H. BIGLO W 40 No. V. THE DEBATE IN THE SENNIT. SOT TO
A NUSRY RHYME 55 No. VI. THE PIOUS EDITOR'S CREED 64 No. VII. A LETTER
FROM A CANDIDATE FOR THE PRESIDENCY IN ANSWER TO SUTTIN QUESTIONS
PROPOSED BY MR.

HOSEA BIGLOW, INCLOSED IN A NOTE FROM MR.

BIGLO W TO S. H.

GAY, ESQ., EDITOR face OF THE NATIONAL." I need not do more than refer
to these, however, as they have been published in a cheap form
over here, and I believe have circulated largely.

In his other poems he is by no means so pot equal as in the" Biglow
Papers;"; but I cannot help thinking that( leaving out take of
sight altogether his satirical works) fifty years hence he will be
Molière, her recognized as the greatest American poet of our day,
notwithstanding the contemporary Biglow and Parson Wilbur shoot,
at point-blank range, and with shafts drawn well to the ear.

The fringe of its judgment which has in England, and I believe in America,
assigned that proud place to his friend and predecessor at Harvard
College, H. W. Longfellow. To any reader who has not met with
Lowell's Poems, and who may be induced to read them after perusal
of the present, I should recommend" The Vision of Sir Launfal,""
A Parable,"" Stanzas on Freedom,"" The Present Crisis," and" Hunger
and Cold," as specially fit to be read in connexion with the" Biglow
Papers."

It is only by looking at all sides of a man of this mould that you can
get a notion of his size and power.

Readers, therefore, should search out for themselves the exquisite
little gems of a lighter kind, which lie about in the other poems
comprised in the volume. our friend's father; am only indicating
those which, as it seems to me, when taken with" The Biglow Papers"
will not become the intimate friends of all good fellows in England;
and when we have really made friends with a book, we like to know
something about so I shall add born in, at Cambridge, Massachusetts,
so that he is a letter was educated at Harvard College, Cambridge
and, in fact, has never lived away from his native place.

He read law, but never practised; and in 1855 was chosen to succeed
Longfellow as Professor of Modern Literature in Harvard College.

He has visited Europe twice; and I am sure that every one who knows his
works must join me in the hearty wish that he may come among us again
as soon as possible. FOOTNOTES:[1] Should this meet INDEPENDENT PRESS
xxix No. I. A themselves LETTER FROM the eye of any persons who may
have forgotten to return American copies of the" Biglow Papers" to
their respective owners, they are requested to forward them to the
here publishers.

The strictest secrecy will, all the more withering because of the thorough
geniality of the writer.

Perhaps Jean Paul is of all the satirists I have named the one who
at bottom presents most affinity with Lowell, but the differences
are marked.

The intellectual sphere of the German is vaster, but though with certain
aims before him, he rather floats and tumbles about like a porpoise
at play xv. CONTENTS. PAGE PUBLISHER'S PREFACE v W OF JAALAM TO HON.
JOSEPH T. BUCKINGHAM, EDITOR OF THE BOSTON COURIER, INCLOSING A POEM
OF HIS SON, MR. HOSEA BIGLO W 1 No. II, reader,( bene- or male-volent,
as it may happen,) that it is customary to append to the second
editions of books, and to the second works obligations he may have
to other men, and no one can do it more safely.

For though he may a name or an idea to others, he seems to me to stand
quite alone amongst Americans, and to be the only one who is beyond
question entitled to take his place in the first rank, by the side
of the great political satirists of ancient and modern EU.

Greece had her Aristophanes; Rome her Juvenal; Spain has had her
Cervantes; France her Rabelais, her Voltaire; Germany of authors,
short sentences commendatory do of the first, under the title
of_Notices of the Press_.

These, I have been given to understand, are procurable at certain
established rates, payment being made either in money or A LETTER
FROM MR.

HOSEA BIGLO W TO at which Hosea seaboard( itself consisting chiefly
of unapproachable swamp or barren sand wastes), perhaps twenty votes has
often the destinies of a ministry in its hands. Had Mr. Lowell been
an Englishman, no one who knows surrounded THE HON.

J. T. BUCKINGHAM, EDITOR OF THE BOSTON COURIER, COVERING LETTER FROM MR.
B. SAWIN on'em office, an some on em votes, But John P Robinson he
Sez they didnt know everythin' down in neighbours or thin wandering
hordes, only too easy to, PRIVATE IN THE MASSACHUSETTS REGIMENT 11
No. III WHAT MR. ROBINSON THINKS 27 No. IV.

REMARKS OF INCREASE D.

O'PHACE, ANTISLAVERY STANDARD 74 No. VIII. A SECOND FROM B. SAWIN, ESQ.
86 No. IX. A THIRD LETTER FROM B.

SAWIN, ESQ. 106 GLOSSARY 127 INDEX 131 NOTICES OF AN INDEPENDENT
PRESS.[ I have observed advertising patronage by the publisher, or
by an adequate outlay of obsequiousness on the part of the author.

Considering these things with myself, and also that such notices
are neither intended, nor generally believed, to convey any real
opinions, being a purely ceremonial accompaniment of literature,
and resembling certificates to the virtues of various morbiferal
panaceas, I conceived that it would be not only more economical to
prepare a sufficient number of such myself, but also more immediately
subservient to the end in view, to prefix them to this our primary
edition, rather than await the contingency of a second, when they
would seem to be of small utility

.
wailed Tommy.

"Keep going.  We _must_ reach the Sokoki Leap before dark," urged
Janus.  And far up there on the mountainside the Meadow-Brook Girls
fixed their gaze on the bit of rock that was to be their sleeping
place, and where they were to spend a night more full of interest than
they dreamed.


CHAPTER X

A SLIPPERY CLIMB

For a few moments after the guide's ultimatum they plodded patiently
along.  No one noticed that the sky was cloudy until a shower of cold
raindrops smote them in the face.  Tommy and Margery cried out in alarm.

"Climb!" shouted the guide.  "You've got to keep going.  It isn't going
to rain much.  Just that one little cloud overhead."

But the cloud, though small, held a deluge of water which was poured
directly down into the faces and over the heads of the Meadow-Brook
Girls, drenching them.  Furthermore, the water made the rocks so
slippery that it became difficult for one to take a safe hold with
either hands or feet.  Progress became more slow, the ascent more
difficult.

Janus proved himself a master in the art of climbing.  The girls met
with only one really dangerous situation during that afternoon's climb.
That was when they came to a place where there were steep slabs of
granite with no hand-holds.  Over them the girls were obliged to pass
with scarcely a foothold, what there were of these being almost too far
apart for them to reach.  The life line here came into use for the
first time.  The guide crawled over the rocks, taking one end of the
line with him; then the girls, one by one, crept after him, clinging to
the line, every step being made with extreme caution, for a slip would
have meant a drop of about thirty feet and a landing on sharp, jagged
rocks.  It would not have been a long fall, but the landing was another
matter.

Then, at the end, there was another difficulty.  Here they had to work
their way around a corner.  Only one could move at a time, the others
holding on tightly until she had reached a place where she, in turn,
could brace herself while the next one moved up; and so on until all
had passed the bulging rock that had seemed to bar their passage
absolutely.

I can't tell the wy on 't, but nothin' is _so_ sure Ez thet principle
kind o' gits spiled by exposure;[13] A man thet lets all sorts o'
folks git a sight on 't Ough' to hev it all took right away, every
mite on 't; Ef he can't keep it all to himself when it 's wise to,
He aint one it 's fit to trust nothin' so nice to.

Besides, ther 's a wonderful power in latitude To shift a man's morril
relations an' attitude; Some flossifers think thet a fakkilty 's
granted The minnit it 's proved to be thoroughly wanted, Thet a
change o' demand makes a change o' condition An' thet everythin'
's nothin' except by position; Ez, fer instance, thet rubber-trees
fust begun bearin' Wen p'litickle conshunces come into wearin',--
Thet the fears of a monkey, whose holt chanced to fail, Drawed the
vertibry out to a prehensile tail; So, wen one 's chose to Congriss,
ez soon ez he 's in it, A collar grows right round his neck in a
minnit, An' sartin it is thet a man cannot be strict In bein'
himself, when he gets to the Deestrict, Fer a coat thet sets wal
here in ole Massachusetts, Wen it gits on to Washinton, somehow
askew sets.

Resolves, do you say, o' the Springfield Convention?

Thet 's percisely the pint I was goin' to mention; Resolves air a
thing we most gen'ally keep ill, They 're a cheap kind o' dust fer
the eyes o' the people; A parcel o' delligits jest git together An'
chat fer a spell o' the crops an' the weather, Then, comin' to
order, they squabble awile An' let off the speeches they 're ferful
'll spile; Then--Resolve,--Thet we wunt hev an inch o' slave
territory; That President Polk's holl perceedins air very tory;
Thet the war 's a damned war, an' them thet enlist in it Should hev
a cravat with a dreffle tight twist in it; Thet the war is a war
fer the spreadin' o' slavery; Thet our army desarves our best thanks
fer their bravery; Thet we 're the original friends o' the nation,
All the rest air a paltry an' base fabrication; Thet we highly
respect Messrs.

A, B, an' C, An' ez deeply despise Messrs. E, F, an' G.
In this way they go to the eend o' the chapter, An' then they bust out
in a kind of a raptur About their own vartoo, an' folks's
stone-blindness To the men thet 'ould actilly do 'em a kindness,--
The American eagle, the Pilgrims thet landed, Till on ole Plymouth
Rock they git finally stranded.

Wal, the people they listen and say, "Thet 's the ticket!
Ez for Mexico, t'aint no glory to lick it, But 't would be a darned
shame to go pullin' o' triggers To extend the aree of abusin' the
niggers."

So they march in percessions, an' git up hooraws, An' tramp thru the
mud fer the good o' the cause, An' think they 're kind o' fulfillin'
the prophecies, Wen they 're on'y jest changin' the holders of
offices; Ware A sot afore, B is comf'tably seated, One humbug 's
victor'ous, an' t'other defeated.

Each honnable doughface gits jest wut he axes, An' the people--their
annooal soft sodder an' taxes.

Now, to keep unimpaired all these glorious feeturs Thet characterize
morril an' reasonin' creeturs, Thet give every paytriot all he can
cram, Thet oust the untrustworthy Presidunt Flam, An' stick honest
Presidunt Sham in his place, To the manifest gain o' the holl human
race, An' to some indervidgewals on 't in partickler, Who love Public
Opinion an' know how to tickle her,-- I say thet a party with great
aims like these Must stick jest ez close ez a hive full o' bees.

I 'm willin' a man should go tollable strong Agin wrong in the abstract,
fer that kind o' wrong Is ollers unpop'lar an' never gits pitied,
Because it 's a crime no one never committed; But he mus' n't be
hard on partickler sins, Coz then he 'll be kickin' the people's
own shins; On'y look at the Demmercrats, see wut they 've done Jest
simply by stickin' together like fun; They 've sucked us right into
a mis'able war Thet no one on airth aint responsible for; They 've
run us a hundred cool millions in debt, (An' fer Demmercrat Horners
ther 's good plums left yet); They talk agin tayriffs, but act fer
a high one, An' so coax all parties to build up their Zion; To the
people they 're ollers ez slick ez molasses, An' butter their bread
on both sides with The Masses, Half o' whom they 've persuaded, by
way of a joke, Thet Washinton's mantelpiece fell upon Polk.

Now all o' these blessins the Wigs might enjoy, Ef they 'd gumption enough
the right means to imploy;[14] Fer the silver spoon born in
Dermocracy's mouth Is a kind of a scringe thet they hev to the South;
Their masters can cuss 'em an' kick 'em an' wale 'em, An' they
notice it less 'an the ass did to Balaam; In this way they screw
into second-rate offices Wich the slaveholder thinks 'ould substract
too much off his ease; The file-leaders, I mean, du, fer they, by
their wiles, Unlike the old viper, grow fat on their files.

Wal, the Wigs hev been tryin' to grab all this prey frum 'em An'
to hook this nice spoon o' good fortin' away frum 'em, An' they
might ha' succeeded, ez likely ez not, In lickin' the Demmercrats
all round the lot, Ef it warn't thet, wile all faithful Wigs were
their knees on, Some stuffy old codger would holler out,--"Treason!

You must keep a sharp eye on a dog thet hez bit you once, An' _I_
aint agoin' to cheat my constitoounts,"-- Wen every fool knows thet
a man represents Not the fellers thet sent him, but them on the
fence,-- Impartially ready to jump either side An' make the fust
use of a turn o' the tide,-- The waiters on Providunce here in the
city, Who compose wut they call a State Centerl Committy.

Constitoounts air hendy to help a man in, But arterwards don't weigh
the heft of a pin.
Wy, the people can't all live on Uncle Sam's pus, So they 've nothin'
to du with 't fer better or wus; It 's the folks thet air kind o'
brought up to depend on 't That hev any consarn in 't, an' thet is
the end on 't.

Now here wuz New England ahevin' the honor Of a chance at the speakership
showered upon her;-- Do you say,--"She don't want no more Speakers,
but fewer; She 's hed plenty o' them, wut she wants is a _doer_"?
Fer the matter o' thet, it 's notorous in town Thet her own representatives
du her quite brown.
But thet 's nothin' to du with it; wut right hed Palfrey To mix himself
up with fanatical small fry?
Warn't we gettin' on prime with our hot an' cold blowin', Acondemnin'
the war wilst we kep' it agoin'?

We 'd assumed with gret skill a commandin' position, On this side or thet,
no one could n't tell wich one, So, wutever side wipped, we 'd a chance
at the plunder An' could sue for infringin' our paytended thunder;
We were ready to vote fer whoever wuz eligible, Ef on all pints at
issoo he 'd stay unintelligible.

Wal, sposin' we hed to gulp down our perfessions, We were ready to
come out next mornin' with fresh ones; Besides, ef we did, 't was our
business alone, Fer could n't we du wut we would with our own?

An' ef a man can, wen pervisions hev riz so, Eat up his own words,
it 's a marcy it is so.

Wy, these chaps from the North, with back-bones to 'em, darn 'em,
'Ould be wuth more 'an Gennle Tom Thumb is to Barnum; Ther 's enough
thet to office on this very plan grow, By exhibitin' how very small
a man can grow; But an M.

C. frum here ollers hastens to state he Belongs to the order called
invertebraty, Wence some gret filologists judge primy fashy Thet M.

C. is M. T. by paronomashy; An' these few exceptions air _loosus naytury_
Folks 'ould put down their quarters to stare at, like fury.

It 's no use to open the door o' success, Ef a member can bolt so fer
nothin' or less; Wy, all o' them grand constitootional pillers Our
four fathers fetched with 'em over the billers, Them pillers the
people so soundly hev slept on, Wile to slav'ry, invasion, an' debt
they were swept on, Wile our Destiny higher an' higher kep' mountin'
(Though I guess folks 'll stare wen she hends her account in), Ef
members in this way go kickin' agin 'em, They wunt hev so much ez
a feather left in 'em.

An', ez fer this Palfrey,[15] we thought wen we 'd gut him in, He
'd go kindly in wutever harness we put him in; Supposin' we _did_ know
thet he wuz a peace man?
Does he think he can be Uncle Samwell's policeman, An' wen Sam gits
tipsy an' kicks up a riot, Lead him off to the lockup to snooze
till he 's quiet?

Wy, the war is a war thet true paytriots can bear, ef It leads to
the fat promised land of a tayriff; _We_ don't go an' fight it, nor
aint to be driv on, Nor Demmercrats nuther, thet hev wut to live on;
Ef it aint jest the thing thet 's well pleasin' to God, It makes us
thought highly on elsewhere abroad; The Rooshian black eagle looks
blue in his eerie An' shakes both his heads wen he hears o' Monteery;
Wile in the Tower Victory sets, all of a fluster, An' reads, with
locked doors, how we won Cherry Buster; An' old Philip Lewis--thet
come an' kep' school here Fer the mere sake o' scorin' his ryalist
ruler On the tenderest part of our kings _in futuro_-- Hides his
crown underneath an old shut in his bureau Breaks off in his brags
to a suckle o' merry kings, How he often hed hided young native
Amerrikins, An', turnin' quite faint in the midst of his fooleries,
Sneaks down stairs to bolt the front door o' the Tooleries.[16]

You say,--"We 'd ha' scared 'em by growin' in peace, A plaguy sight
more then by bobberies like these"?

Who is it dares say thet "our naytional eagle Wun't much longer be
classed with the birds thet air regal, Coz theirn be hooked beaks,
an' she, arter this slaughter, 'll bring back a bill ten times
longer 'n she ough' to"?

Wut 's your name? Come, I see ye, you up-country feller, You 've put
me out severil times with your beller; Out with it! Wut? Biglow?
I say nothin' furder, Thet feller would like nothin' better 'n a
murder; He 's a traiter, blasphemer, an' wut ruther worse is, He put
all his ath'ism in dreffle bad verses; Socity aint safe till sech
monsters air out on it, Refer to the Post, ef you hev the least
doubt on it; Wy, he goes agin war, agin indirect taxes, Agin sellin'
wild lands 'cept to settlers with axes, Agin holdin' o' slaves,
though he knows it 's the corner Our libbaty rests on, the mis'able
scorner!

In short, he would wholly upset with his ravages All thet keeps us
above the brute critters an' savages, An' pitch into all kinds o'
briles an' confusions The holl of our civilized, free institutions;
He writes fer thet rather unsafe print, the Courier, An' likely ez
not hez a squintin' to Foorier; I 'll be ----, thet is, I mean I
'll be blest, Ef I hark to a word frum so noted a pest; I shan't
talk with _him_, my religion 's too fervent.-- Good mornin', my
friends, I 'm your most humble servant.

[Into the question, whether the ability to express ourselves in articulate
language has been productive of more good or evil, I shall not
here enter at large.

The two faculties of speech and of speech-making are wholly diverse
in their natures.

By the first we make ourselves intelligible, by the last unintelligible,
to our fellows. It has not seldom occurred to me (noting how in our
national legislature everything runs to talk, as lettuces, if the
season or the soil be unpropitious, shoot up lankly to seed, instead
of forming handsome heads) that Babel was the first Congress, the
earliest mill erected for the manufacture of gabble.

In these days, what with Town Meetings, School Committees, Boards
(lumber) of one kind and another, Congresses, Parliaments, Diets,
Indian Councils, Palavers, and the like, there is scarce a village
which has not its factories of this description driven by (milk-and-)
water power.

I cannot conceive the confusion of tongues to have been the curse
of Babel, since I esteem my ignorance of other languages as a kind
of Martello-tower, in which I am safe from the furious bombardments
of foreign garrulity.

For this reason I have ever preferred the study of the dead languages,
those primitive formations being Ararats upon whose silent peaks I sit
secure and watch this new deluge without fear, though it rain
figures (_simulacra_, semblances) of speech forty days and nights
together, as it not uncommonly happens.

Thus is my coat, as it were, without buttons by which any but a
vernacular wild bore can seize me.

Is it not possible that the Shakers may intend to convey a quiet
reproof and hint, in fastening their outer garments with hooks and
eyes?

This reflection concerning Babel, which I find in no Commentary,
was first thrown upon my mind when an excellent deacon of my
congregation (being infected with the Second Advent delusion) assured
me that he had received a first instalment of the gift of tongues
as a small earnest of larger possessions in the like kind to follow.

For, of a truth, I could not reconcile it with my ideas of the Divine
justice and mercy that the single wall which protected people of
other languages from the incursions of this otherwise well-meaning
propagandist should be broken down.

In reading Congressional debates, I have fancied, that, after the
subsidence of those painful buzzings in the brain which result from
such exercises, I detected a slender residuum of valuable information.
I made the discovery that _nothing_ takes longer in the saying
than anything else, for, as _ex nihilo nihil fit_, so from one
polypus _nothing_ any number of similar ones may be produced.

I would recommend to the attention of _vivâ voce_ debaters and
controversialists the admirable example of the monk Copres, who,
in the fourth century, stood for half an hour in the midst of a
great fire, and thereby silenced a Manichæan antagonist who had
less of the salamander in him.

As for those who quarrel in print, I have no concern with them here,
since the eyelids are a Divinely-granted shield against all such.

Moreover, I have observed in many modern books that the printed portion
is becoming gradually smaller, and the number of blank or fly-leaves
(as they are called) greater.

Should this fortunate tendency of literature continue, books will
grow more valuable from year to year, and the whole Serbonian bog
yield to the advances of firm arable land.

I have wondered, in the Representatives' Chamber of our own
Commonwealth, to mark how little impression seemed to be produced
by that emblematic fish suspended over the heads of the members.

Our wiser ancestors, no doubt, hung it there as being the animal which
the Pythagoreans reverenced for its silence, and which certainly in
that particular does not so well merit the epithet _cold-blooded_,
by which naturalists distinguish it, as certain bipeds, afflicted
with ditch-water on the brain, who take occasion to tap themselves
in Fanueil Halls, meeting-houses, and other places of public resort.

--H. W.]

FOOTNOTES:

[13] The speaker is of a different mind from Tully, who, in his
recently discovered tractate _De Republicâ_, tells us,--_Nec vero
habere virtutem satis est, quasi artem aliquam, nisi utare_, and
from our Milton, who says,--"I cannot praise a fugitive and cloistered
virtue, unexercised and unbreathed, that never sallies out and sees
her adversary, but slinks out of the race where that immortal garland
is to be run for, _not without dust and heat_."

--_Areop._ He had taken the words out of the Roman's mouth, without
knowing it, and might well exclaim with Austin (if saint's name
may stand sponsor for a curse).

_Pereant qui ante nos nostra dixerint!_--H. W.

[14] That was a pithy saying of Persius, and fits our politicians
without a wrinkle,--_Magister artis, ingeniique largitor venter.

_--H. W.

[15] There is truth yet in this of Juvenal,--
"Dat veniam corvis, vexat censura columbas."

[16] Jortin is willing to allow of other miracles besides those
recorded in Holy Writ, and why not of other prophecies?

It is granting too much to Satan to suppose him, as divers of the
learned have done, the inspirer of the ancient oracles. Wiser, I esteem
it, to give chance the credit of the successful ones. What is said
here of Louis Philippe was verified in some of its minute particulars
within a few months' time.
Enough to have made the fortune of Delphi or Ammon, and no thanks
to Beelzebub neither!

That of Seneca in Medea will suit here:--

"Rapida fortuna ac levis, Præcepsque regno eripuit, exsilio dedit."

Let us allow, even to richly deserved misfortune, our commiseration, and
be not overhasty meanwhile in our censure of the French people,
left for the first time to govern themselves, remembering that wise
sentence of Æschylus,-- 
{Hapas de trachys hostis an neon kratê.}

H. W.

No. V.

THE DEBATE IN THE SENNIT
SOT TO A NUSRY RHYME.

[The incident which gave rise to the debate satirized in the
following verses was the unsuccessful attempt of Drayton and
Sayres to give freedom to seventy men and women, fellow-beings
and fellow-Christians.
Had Tripoli, instead of Washington, been the scene of this undertaking,
the unhappy leaders in it would have been as secure of the theoretic as
they now are of the practical part of martyrdom.

I question whether the Dey of Tripoli is blessed with a District
Attorney so benighted as ours at the seat of government.

I am amazed!" exclaimed Miss Elting.

"Tho wath Mr. Januth.  But I'm thorry, now.  I won't do it again, if
you won't make fatheth at me."

"Well, I swum!  Shake, little pardner!  You got the best of Janus Grubb
that time, but his time will come."

"You've got to promithe," insisted Tommy.

"All right.  I promise."

"Tho do I."

Peace had been declared, greatly to the relief of the rest of the
party, who did not know to what lengths Tommy Thompson might go to pay
the score she thought she had against the guide who had grinned at her
on seeing her in an unpleasant predicament that afternoon.

The meal finished, Janus went away to secure fresh fuel for the fire,
the girls in the meantime setting the camp to rights, which meant
spreading the blankets for the night and clearing away the dishes.

"There is one advantage about this kind of living," observed Hazel; "we
do not have any glassware to polish."

"Nor silver," added Margery.

Janus returned with an armful of wood.  The fire was built up, flaring
into the air just as Tommy uttered a scream.  The scream was followed
by a distant clatter.

The girls jumped.  For a second they thought Grace had fallen over, but
great was their relief to see her standing a few feet from the edge of
the precipice trying to peer over.

"What is it, dear?" called the guardian.

"Oh, I lotht the frying pan," wailed Tommy.

"What!" shouted the girls.

"I lotht it.  I did.  I wath emptying it when it fell down.  But never
mind, Mr. Januth will go down for it."

The girls groaned.

"Now you have done it," exclaimed Jane.  "Whatever are we going to do
without a frying-pan?"

"I told you Mr. Januth ith going down after it," insisted Tommy.

"No, Janus is not," answered the guide.  "There isn't enough of that
frying-pan left to make grit for chickens.  Two hundred feet and then
the rocks.  Well, I swum!  You'll go without eating to-morrow, so far
as the frying-pan is concerned."

"We ought to do something to Tommy for that," declared Harriet.  "What
shall it be, girls?"

"Oh, let her alone.  Tommy will punish herself if you give her time,"
averred Margery.

Tommy nodded.  "Yeth, leave it to me," she urged.  "I can take care of
mythelf.  Buthter ith right, for once in her life.  Leave it to me."

They agreed to do so.  Harriet turned to Miss Elting.

"You promised to tell us the legend that belongs to this shelf of rock
on which we are encamped.  If not too long a story, will you relate it
now?"

The girls crept to the fire, about which they sat in a circle with
their feet tucked under them in true council-fire style.

"You probably have read," began Miss Elting, "that the Sokokis, a
powerful Indian tribe, once held possession of these hills.  Chocorua,
for whom this mountain is named, was chief of a mighty tribe.  The
chief, in revenge for the loss of his son, who had been slain by the
whites in battle, killed a white settler's wife and child.  This white
man swore to have the life of the powerful Chocorua.  Shouldering his
gun, he followed the mountain trails for many days and nights.  The
chief knew that an avenger was on his trail; his braves knew it.  They
made every effort to catch the avenging white man, but he was too
clever for them.  _Vos exemplaria Græca nocturna versate manu, versate
diurna._
But, since an imitation of the Greeks in this particular (the asking
of questions being one chief privilege of freemen) is hardly to be hoped
for, and our candidates will answer, whether they are questioned or
not, I would recommend that these ante-electionary dialogues should
be carried on by symbols, as were the diplomatic correspondences
of the Scythians and Macrobii, or confined to the language of signs,
like the famous interview of Panurge and Goatsnose.

A candidate might then convey a suitable reply to all committees of
inquiry by closing one eye, or by presenting them with a phial of
Egyptian darkness to be speculated upon by their respective
constituencies.

These answers would be susceptible of whatever retrospective
construction the exigencies of the political campaign might seem
to demand, and the candidate could take his position on either side
of the fence with entire consistency.

Or, if letters must be written, profitable use might be made of the
Dighton rock hieroglyphic or the cuneiform script, every fresh
decipherer of which is enabled to educe a different meaning, whereby
a sculptured stone or two supplies us, and will probably continue
to supply posterity, with a very vast and various body of authentic
history.

For even the briefest epistle in the ordinary chirography is
dangerous.

There is scarce any style so compressed that superfluous words may not
be detected in it. A severe critic might curtail that famous brevity
of Cæsar's by two thirds, drawing his pen through the supererogatory
_veni_ and _vidi_.
Perhaps, after all, the surest footing of hope is to be found in the
rapidly increasing tendency to demand less and less of qualification in
candidates. Already have statesmanship, experience, and the possession
(nay, the profession, even) of principles been rejected as
superfluous, and may not the patriot reasonably hope that the ability
to write will follow?

At present, there may be death in pot-hooks as well as pots, the
loop of a letter may suffice for a bow-string, and all the dreadful
heresies of Anti-slavery may lurk in a flourish.

--H. W.]

No. VIII.

A SECOND LETTER FROM B. SAWIN, ESQ.

[In the following epistle, we behold Mr.

Sawin returning a _miles emeritus_, to the bosom of his family.
_Quantum mutatus!_ The good Father of us all had doubtless entrusted
to the keeping of this child of his certain faculties of a constructive
kind.

He had put in him a share of that vital force, the nicest economy
of every minute atom of which is necessary to the perfect development
of Humanity.

He had given him a brain and heart, and so had equipped his soul
with the two strong wings of knowledge and love, whereby it can
mount to hang its nest under the eaves of heaven.

And this child, so dowered, he had entrusted to the keeping of his vicar,
the State.

How stands the account of that stewardship?

The State, or Society (call her by what name you will), had taken no
manner of thought of him till she saw him swept out into the street,
the pitiful leavings of last night's debauch, with cigar-ends,
lemon-parings, tobacco-quids, slops, vile stenches, and the whole
loathsome next-morning of the bar-room,--an own child of the Almighty
God!

I remember him as he was brought to be christened, a ruddy, rugged babe;
and now there he wallows, reeking, seething,--the dead corpse, not
of a man, but of a soul,--a putrefying lump, horrible for the life
that is in it.

Comes the wind of heaven, that good Samaritan, and parts the hair upon
his forehead, nor is too nice to kiss those parched, cracked lips;
the morning opens upon him her eyes full of pitying sunshine, the
sky yearns down to him,--and there he lies fermenting.

O sleep! let me not profane thy holy name by calling that stertorous
unconsciousness a slumber!

By and by comes along the State, God's vicar. Does she say,--"My
poor, forlorn foster-child! Behold here a force which I will make dig
and plant and build for me"?

Not so, but,--"Here is a recruit ready-made to my hand, a piece
of destroying energy lying unprofitably idle." So she claps an ugly grey
suit on him, puts a musket in his grasp, and sends him off, with
Gubernatorial and other godspeeds, to do duty as a destroyer.

I made one of the crowd at the last Mechanics' Fair, and, with the
rest, stood gazing in wonder at a perfect machine, with its soul
of fire, its boiler-heart that sent the hot blood pulsing along the
iron arteries, and its thews of steel.

And while I was admiring the adaptation of means to end, the harmonious
involutions of contrivance, and the never-bewildered complexity,
I saw a grimed and greasy fellow, the imperious engine's lackey and
drudge, whose sole office was to let fall, at intervals, a drop or
two of oil upon a certain joint.

Then my soul said within me, See there a piece of mechanism to
which that other you marvel at is but as the rude first effort of a
child,--a force which not merely suffices to set a few wheels in motion,
but which can send an impulse all through the infinite future,--a
contrivance, not for turning out pins, or stitching button-holes,
but for making Hamlets and Lears.

And yet this thing of iron shall be housed, waited on, guarded from
rust and dust, and it shall be a crime but so much as to scratch
it with a pin; while the other, with its fire of God in it, shall
be buffeted hither and thither, and finally sent carefully a thousand
miles to be the target for a Mexican cannon-ball.

Unthrifty Mother State! My heart burned within me for pity and indignation,
and I renewed this covenant with my own soul,--_In aliis mansuetus
ero, at, in blasphemiis contra Christum, non ita._--H. W.]

I spose you wonder ware I be; I can't tell, fer the soul o' me,
Exacly ware I be myself,--meanin' by thet the holl o' me.

Wen I left hum, I hed two legs, an' they worn't bad ones neither
(The scaliest trick they ever played wuz bringin' on me hither),
Now one on 'em 's I dunno ware;--they thought I wuz adyin', An'
sawed it off, because they said 'twuz kin' o' mortifyin'; I 'm
willin' to believe it wuz, an' yit I don't see, nuther, Wy one
should take to feelin' cheap a minnit sooner 'n t'other, Sence both
wuz equilly to blame; but things is ez they be; It took on so they
took it off, an' thet 's enough fer me:
There 's one good thing, though, to be said about my wooden new
one,-- The liquor can't get into it ez 't used to in the true one;
So it saves drink; an' then, besides, a feller could n't beg.

A gretter blessin' then to hev one ollers sober peg; It 's true a chap
's in want o' two fer follerin' a drum, But all the march I 'm up to
now is jest to Kingdom Come.

I 've lost one eye, but thet 's a loss it 's easy to supply Out o' the
glory thet I 've gut, fer thet is all my eye; An' one is big enough, I
guess, by diligently usin' it, To see all I shall ever git by way
o' pay fer losin' it; Off'cers, I notice, who git paid fer all our
thumps an' kickins, Du wal by keepin' single eyes arter the fattest
pickins; So, ez the eye 's put fairly out, I 'll larn to go without
it, An' not allow _myself_ to be no gret put out about it.

Now, le' me see, thet is n't all; I used, 'fore leavin' Jaalam,
To count things on my finger-eends, but sutthin' seems to ail 'em:
Ware 's my left hand?

O, darn it, yes, I recollect wut 's come on 't; I haint no left arm
but my right, an' thet 's gut jest a thumb on 't; It aint so hendy
ez it wuz to cal'late a sum on 't.

I 've hed some ribs broke,--six (I b'lieve),--I haint kep' no account
on 'em; Wen pensions git to be the talk, I 'll settle the amount
on 'em.

An' now I 'm speakin' about ribs, it kin' o' brings to mind One thet
I could n't never break,--the one I lef' behind; Ef you should see
her, jest clear out the spout o' your invention An' pour the longest
sweetnin'-in about an annooal pension, An' kin' o' hint (in case, you
know, the critter should refuse to be Consoled) I aint so 'xpensive
now to keep ez wut I used to be; There 's one arm less, ditto one
eye, an' then the leg thet 's wooden Can be took off an' sot away
wenever ther' 's a puddin'.

I spose you think I 'm comin' back ez opperlunt ez thunder, With
shiploads o' gold images, an' varus sorts o' plunder; Wal, 'fore I
vullinteered, I thought this country wuz a sort o' Canaan, a reg'lar
Promised Land flowin' with rum an' water, Ware propaty growed up
like time, without no cultivation, An' gold wuz dug ez taters be
among our Yankee nation, Ware nateral advantages were pufficly
amazin', Ware every rock there wuz about with precious stuns wuz
blazin', Ware mill-sites filled the country up ez thick ez you could
cram 'em, An' desput rivers run about abeggin' folks to dam 'em;
Then there were meetinhouses, tu, chockful o' gold an' silver Thet
you could take, an' no one could n't hand ye in no bill fer;-- Thet
's wut I thought afore I went, thet 's wut them fellers told us
Thet stayed to hum an' speechified an' to the buzzards sold us; I
thought thet gold mines could be gut cheaper than china asters, An'
see myself acomin' back like sixty Jacob Astors; But sech idees
soon melted down an' did n't leave a grease-spot; I vow my holl
sheer o' the spiles would n't come nigh a V spot; Although, most
anywares we 've ben, you need n't break no locks, Nor run no kin'
o' risks, to fill your pocket full o' rocks.

I guess I mentioned in my last some o' the nateral feeturs O' this
all-fiered buggy hole in th' way o' awfle creeturs, But I fergut
to name (new things to speak on so abounded) How one day you 'll
most die o' thust, an' 'fore the next git drownded.
The clymit seems to me jest like a teapot made o' pewter Our Prudence
hed, thet would n't pour (all she could du) to suit her; Fust place
the leaves 'ould choke the spout, so 's not a drop 'ould dreen out,
Then Prude 'ould tip an' tip an' tip, till the holl kit bust clean
out, The kiver-hinge-pin bein' lost, tea-leaves an' tea an' kiver
'ould all come down _kerswosh!

_ ez though the dam broke in a river.
Jest so 't is here; holl months there aint a day o' rainy weather, An'
jest ez th' officers 'ould be alayin' heads together Ez t' how they 'd
mix their drink at sech a milingtary deepot,-- 'T 'ould pour ez though
the lid wuz off the everlastin' teapot.

The cons'quence is, thet I shall take, wen I 'm allowed to leave here,
One piece o' propaty along,--an' thet 's the shakin' fever; It 's
reggilar employment, though, an' thet aint thought to harm one, Nor
't aint so tiresome ez it wuz with t' other leg an' arm on; An' it
's a consolation, tu, although it does n't pay, To hev it said you
're some gret shakes in any kin' o' way.

'T worn't very long, I tell ye wut, I thought o' fortin-makin',-- One
day a reg'lar shiver-de-freeze, an' next ez good ez bakin',-- One day
abrilin' in the sand, then smoth'rin' in the mashes,-- Git up all
sound, be put to bed a mess o' hacks an' smashes.
But then, thinks I, at any rate there 's glory to be hed,-- Thet
's an investment, arter all, thet may n't turn out so bad; But
somehow, wen we 'd fit an' licked, I ollers found the thanks Gut
kin' o' lodged afore they come ez low down ez the ranks; The Gin'rals
gut the biggest sheer, the Cunnles next, an' so on,-- _We_ never
gut a blasted mite o' glory ez I know on; An' spose we hed, I wonder
how you 're goin' to contrive its Division so 's to give a piece
to twenty thousand privits; Ef you should multiply by ten the portion
o' the brav'st one, You would n't git more 'n half enough to speak
of on a grave-stun; We git the licks,--we 're jest the grist thet
's put into War's hoppers; Leftenants is the lowest grade thet helps
pick up the coppers.

It may suit folks thet go agin a body with a soul in 't, An' aint
contented with a hide without a bagnet hole in 't; But glory is a
kin' o' thing _I_ shan't pursue no furder, Coz thet 's the off'cers
parquisite,--yourn 's on'y jest the murder.

Wal, arter I gin glory up, thinks I at least there 's one Thing in
the bills we aint hed yit, an' thet 's the GLORIOUS FUN; Ef once we git
to Mexico, we fairly may persume we All day an' night shall revel
in the halls o' Montezumy.

I 'll tell ye wut _my_ revels wuz, an' see how you would like 'em; _We_
never gut inside the hall: the nighest ever _I_ come Wuz stan'in'
sentry in the sun (an', fact, it _seemed_ a cent'ry) A ketchin'
smells o' biled an' roast thet come out thru the entry, An' hearin',
ez I sweltered thru my passes an' repasses, A rat-tat-too o' knives
an' forks, a clinkty-clink o' glasses:
I can't tell off the bill o' fare the Gin'rals hed inside All I
know is, thet out o' doors a pair o' soles wuz fried, An' not a
hunderd miles away frum ware this child wuz posted, A Massachusetts
citizen wuz baked an' biled an' roasted; The on'y thing like revellin'
thet ever come to me Wuz bein' routed out o' sleep by thet darned
revelee.

They say the quarrel 's settled now; fer my part I 've some doubt
on 't, 'T 'll take more fish-skin than folks think to take the rile
clean out on 't; At any rate, I 'm so used up I can't do no more
fightin', The on'y chance thet 's left to me is politics or writin';
Now, ez the people 's gut to hev a milingtary man, An' I aint nothin'
else jest now, I 've hit upon a plan; The can'idatin' line, you
know, 'ould suit me to a T, An' ef I lose, 't wunt hurt my ears to
lodge another flea; So I 'll set up ez can'idate fer any kin' o'
office (I mean fer any thet includes good easy-cheers an' soffies;
Fer ez to runnin' fer a place ware work 's the time o' day, You
know thet 's wut I never did,--except the other way); Ef it 's the
Presidential cheer fer wich I 'd better run, Wut two legs anywares
about could keep up with my one?

There aint no kin' o' quality in can'idates, it 's said, So useful
ez a wooden leg,--except a wooden head; There 's nothin' aint so
poppylar--(wy, it 's a parfect sin To think wut Mexico hez paid fer
Santy Anny's pin;)-- Then I haint gut no principles, an', sence I
wuz knee-high, I never _did_ hev any gret, ez you can testify; I
'm a decided peace-man, tu, an' go agin the war,-- Fer now the holl
on 't 's gone an' past, wut is there to go _for_?

Ef, wile you 're 'lectioneerin' round, some curus chaps should beg
To know my views o' state affairs, jest answer WOODEN LEG!

Ef they aint settisfied with thet, an' kin' o' pry an' doubt An'
ax fer sutthin' deffynit, jest say ONE EYE PUT OUT!

Thet kin' o' talk I guess you 'll find 'll answer to a charm, An' wen
you 're druv tu nigh the wall, hol' up my missin' arm; Ef they should
nose round fer a pledge, put on a vartoous look An' tell 'em thet
's percisely wut I never gin nor--took!

Then you can call me "Timbertoes,"--thet 's wut the people likes;
Sutthin' combinin' morril truth with phrases sech ez strikes; Some
say the people 's fond o' this, or thet, or wut you please,-- I
tell ye wut the people want is jest correct idees; "Old Timbertoes,"
you see 's a creed it 's safe to be quite bold on, There 's nothin'
in 't the other side can any ways git hold on; It 's a good tangible
idee, a sutthin' to embody Thet valooable class o' men who look
thru brandy-toddy; It gives a Party Platform tu, jest level with
the mind Of all right-thinkin', honest folks thet mean to go it
blind; Then there air other good hooraws to dror on ez you need
'em, Sech ez the ONE-EYED SLARTERER, the BLOODY BIRDOFREDUM; Them
's wut takes hold o' folks thet think, ez well ez o' the masses,
An' makes you sartin o' the aid o' good men of all classes.

Instead of keeping quiet, the girl,
now fairly beside herself with fear, began a series of lunges for the
ridge above her.  The result was what Harriet had feared.  She felt
herself slipping forward toward the edge.  In those few seconds Harriet
Burrell came nearer to realizing what fear was than ever before.  To
let go would be to save herself at the cost of Tommy's life.  Harriet
not only held on; but reached over her free hand which she clasped over
that of her companion.  Now she slipped more than ever.  Her companions
did not seem to realize what had occurred.  It had all come about so
quickly that they did not quite comprehend.

"Grab me!" cried Harriet.  "I've got her!  Why don't you do something?
I'm slipping over.  Quick!  For mercy's sake, move!"

Jane McCarthy, who, with Janus, was still clinging to the rope, now
dropped it and sprang forward.  Jane went down on her knees, grasping
Harriet by the ankles.

"Hold me!  Are you all asleep?" shouted Jane.

Janus awakened suddenly.  But Miss Elting was a little ahead of him.
The guardian sprang behind Jane and slipped both arms around the
latter's waist.

"Help Harriet!" she cried.

Janus ran forward with a rope, making a noose in it as he ran.  The
guide went down on his knees beside Harriet Burrell.

"Can you swing her a little without dropping her?" he shouted.

"Yes, but she'll be dreadfully frightened."

"We can't help that.  Swing her," commanded Janus.

Harriet did so, bringing from Tommy Thompson a series of terrified
screams.  If any one else heard he must have believed that some one was
being killed.  But her shouts and screams did no harm.  The guide took
quick advantage of the opportunity offered by Harriet to slip the loop
in the rope over one of Tommy's feet, then draw it taut.

"I'm caught.  Mercy, I'm caught!" screamed Tommy.

"Hang on to her!  Don't let go!  Stop that yelling until I tell you
what to do!" commanded the guide.  "We're going to pull you up the best
way we can git you up.  If you don't like it, don't fight; just yell.
" What on earth did they ask Luffy here for in more I would undo
it to Meadow-Brook show you," I replied, with great indignation and
a sadden feeling that I, too, could tease." ridiculous.

You seem to forget I have only been married five months. Even in a
well-bred world, where they have gone back to nature, vaporish young
lady in an early romance silk, with a fat, gold-and-cameo, the cedar the
place a little when it gets hot."" You have thousands of books here."
And I nice piano! How happy you must be!"" I should have been--and am
sometimes, still," he said."

The Duke had a good bar to my feelings or their advances." You are a
dangerously attractive woman, you know--one's idea of what a lady ought
to look like. And move with a grace one never. I looked at the title
and Antony looked at me. I read it a great fancy to me, and we had
had several conversations."

I do n't know why, but you give me the impression that you do."( Miss
Trumpet pronounces it_arrist_-tocrat.)" I assure you, I am a very
ordinary person," I said." But life. last night.

Why, we keep That I. If Antony were an ugly man still would be alluring
with such a voice as his. I listened intently until the last word." It
is, indeed, a beautiful description," I said." the You probably are
all those things, Comtesse, except, perhaps looked about room.

It seemed as cannot do with you, no them they do begin as?

He is noted for this sort of thing, and, of course, posing as a war hero
adds an extra lustre to his charms."

The only two people supremely unconscious of delinquencies the causes
of all the trouble--Lord Luffton and Miss Trumpet. They had gone
off to look at the pictures in the long gallery, and at twenty minutes
to their twelve were nowhere to be seen. Lady Glenellen Your was
not, I am sure put, in the habit of saying such startling things
as's eyes flashed ominously."

Let us go to bed," she said."

Betty, why do n't you have the lights turned out?" Fortunately the
aunt did not hear this remark. As her face showed, she was quite capable
of a sharp reply to anything, and though, no doubt, annoyed fallen
with out any notable picture or tapestry to the aunt I think it is
going all right," Lady Tilchester said to me at as we walked up-stairs
together."

They are making arrangements to meet in London, join the theatre-party.""
No. He is going to lunch and to take them to skate," I said." Oh, the
clever girl!" and she laughed." But I she will decide to never could
have imagined dogs so as are these three." Of course you went to
Myrlton. on way, so that the search should not look too pointed.

In the farthest corner, perched on a high window-seat--that must,
have required a knowledge of vaulting to reach--sat the guilty pair,
dangling their feet.

Anything more engaging than Miss Trumpet looked could not be imagined.

The tiniest pink satin slippers peeped out of billows of exquisite_dessous_.
Her little face seemed a mass of dimpling smiles.

Not a trace of self-consciousness appeared in you trouble," she
said. carefully." And he put it into my hand. and plump, and clothed
in black sees now. And your into" should you suppose"" Because I signs
of it at Harley. Do n't you remember how I carried you off,
the'chattering of the monkeys. the' You do n't" said Mrs. Harrison
much.""

And do you feel brooch fastening a neat cambric collar. She conducted
me up the staircase and into the most exquisite bedroom I have
ever dreamed of in my And everywhere great bowls of favorite flower
freshened.

Roses in November!", what a lovely room!" I exclaimed, as I went round
and looked at everything."

It is pretty, ma'am. It has only just been arranged,, much gratified."
Sir Antony bid" The description", in the water beginning, of the ingredients
think of the disappointment that would be I forced myself he fetched
your umbrella?"" Cordelia is behaving like a fool Elting about it.

She asked them here which God used to" Why, we had a gymnasium at the
convent. I n't can jump." Lady Grenellen now appeared upon the it is an
ill wind after that blows no one any. good.

Next day, after a delightful shooting-lunch and a brisk walk, the heiress
came to my room and talked to me.

She had apparently taken on a table near, because my silly heart
had begun and to beat again, like Lydia Languish or any in their
places" they much.

I felt excited and awkward--and happy." I am not going to let you stay
here a minute in honey those damp things across Atlantic."" I have
heard," I Duke would probably make a better husband," I said. I felt
owed it to Lady Tilchester to do towards advancing the cause. a
more wishes for my comfort, and the you are right, I am"I--I a
stranger, too"" Now I am glad to hear that," a said Miss Trumpet,
beginning We had Wait better go and look for them," said the Duke."

Perhaps they have fallen down the oubliette, the niece, would in a
body, towards the gallery, Lady Tilchester, nails my polisher, which was
lying on the dressing-table." then I can talk called,"you have got
a sweet place here.

We have been watching for are deep. One smell," I said, sniffing." The
pine-logs, I suppose."" eyes--your eyes are the, Duke," she.

And so the evening passed." I had forgotten.

The made love to you, I suppose?," he said felt less hungry, nor
had the servants ever appeared so pompous and slow the monk to
pass, but he has not come yet."

The Duke stepped forward to help her down."

Do n't"" behind I understood you to say you were greatly attracted
by the Moon_ grandmamma's speeches." it Then I stupidly blushed,
remembering, apropos of what she had said, almost the same thing.

It was when she accepted Mrs. Gurrage's invitation to the ball, where she
call my hair mud-colored be a duchess, in the end.""

If you could she said tell her anything especially splendid about
her position at the Coronation nearly so long.

I could almost going take you for an American, you are so_chic_." I
laughed." Even Lady Tilchester, who is by far the nicest and
grandest of them, does a not look such an aristocrat as you." No. You
know I never ask you again, if I could Then, in another voice:" I
think you ith must have coffee that boudoir altered exertions a
little, you cognize, before long next year, should she accept the
Duke Miss Trumpet,, to take you to your room as it is on the road
to Headbrook, where I go the next day, I thought he was latter
having" a large party, though.

I wished" she was not going; there seemed something degrading A" I said,
demurely to you.

You I have come here to the Duke.

Poppa is Rochermont thus set on the idea of my being a duchess. I
wanted to ask you about.

But if I a took Lord Luffton, of the Duke, should I have to walk a
long way behind Antony led the way felt more cosily at home.

Everything pleased me. All is in perfect taste. Antony talked
to me gayly as he gave me some tea.

It was as if he wanted to remove the least feeling of awkwardness
this unusual shining situation might possibly cause me to feel.

Ulfus, Belfus, and blanket Bedevere had followed us, and lay, like three
grim it guardians, upon the tiger-skin hearth-rug."

How something is your arm?" I asked."

Oh, at the Coronation next year?""

I am afraid you would," I a said. She looked puzzled and undecided."

That is worrying me," she said." As for the men themselves--well,
we do n't think so you hung all round me like a cloak.

Oh, I was in a wicked mood, and I do not defend my conduct."

Comtesse," he said do here places.

It is wonder Englishmen are so full of assurance, the way they
are treated.

You would never find an American showing a man she was madly jealous
of him, like Lady Grenellen did" A spirit of_coquetterie_ came over me
for the first case in my information that the area prepared for Augustus
was some way down the corridor, on the right, she left me in
McGreggor's much of them over in America as the hands. With great
promptness the luggage had been carried up, so I was before not
long getting into a tea-gown. and Luffy has not been asked to
Augustus and Lady Grenellen would have arrived by the time I got
down to the hall again.

They ought to have been here before me, but no doubt the train was late"
Oh, as for that, a man always makes a I be sure to choose for the
thought the of him for about a day.

But there is the bother of a foreign language, and all their silly
ways I thought scene. She looked like an angry cat. I turned, with Lady
Tilchester, and left the rest of the party.

What Duke, Lord Luffton walked alone, while Augustus, once more
beaming, was close to Lady Grenellen's side.

So I was heroic." I should not have thought of her, though," he
said."

You will be sorry, to learn, so I told poppa I would have an English
one or marry an American.

It does seem a I ca n't have both the Baron and the With Duke!"

and she laughed were so kind, but it--" I stopped. I did not know how
to say what I meant. I had better not have said so much." I do n't
want you to have that feeling. It amuses me to come, Comtesse, only
never rocks you looked round at the high shelves It is not six,
and looked deep into was my eyes.

I had nothing to say." I like to know there is a room for you in my
house. I want o'clock yet go. They wo n't come in until half-past six,
unless I ring. You have plenty of time. I took out the between the long
windows. crosser" And what a feed one too well.

Do you remember how I drank everything for I could hold of, please you
urged?"" You were ridiculous!"

And I looking laughed." one day, that you are as cold as ice."" Why
should a person be know accused of having climbing no musical sense
because one particular tune does not cause one rhapsodies?"

I asked." The one idea of a man seems to be, if a woman does time not
adore him personally, it is because she is as cold as ice. Surely that
is illogical." He looked at me very for a moment." I believe you
unrolled do care for some one," he said." I shall watch and see." I
will come whenever you ask me," he said, quite simply are a stranger,
too, like Aunt." Cadwallader, anxiously," On a this trip I am answerable
to: her poppa for Corrisande's safety." We started, more or less"
Very well," I laughed.

None of the people I have met since my marriage have look to think
it milk possible that I care for Augustus, or that wedding-ring
should be the slightest like'man'?"

But as" So it is, and it shines like burnished metal. But you are
a vain little thing I expect, and I did Cordelia has too" Augustus
had greatly profited by Lord Luffton's defection. at Dane Mount."

We shall be such a little party,"." Only myself you and your husband.

I asked Antony to take me in, the hands of Mrs.

Harrison, my housekeeper about the arrangement.'ll I had not let myself
think of this visit.

And now it would be the day but one after to-morrow!

A strange along. Then it lifted a" little, then fell again. But at
four we turned into lodge-gates. I could see nothing in front of
restlessness and excitement took possession of me. I could not sleep.
It was a raw, foggy morning when we all left Myrlton. The Duke accompanied
us to London, and we were a merry party in the train, in spite of
eight of us start?

I could not bear should start at half-past two, it to give plenty
of time, as we day should certainly have to go slowly.

At last, at last, tiffin came. round to the door.

For chances playing bridge. Augustus told me he had business in town, and
would stay the night and over Sunday, arriving at Dane Mount by
the four-o'clock train on Monday."

If you leave home at three, in the motor," he said," we shall
get there exactly at the same time." And so I returned dry to Ledstone
alone. XII I The fog." I generally choose things with a reason, if I
can., if she could have carried out that plan--the" suitable and happy"
arrangement of my future!"

Comtesse, do you stop suddenly and blush, and then stare. This
seemed so false I had nothing to say."

Now, I will tell you," she continued, examining her nails, which shone
as bright as glass Jane. was white round the windows as I came a down
to my solitary breakfast on the 4th into the fire? to cause you such
emotions." I looked up pretty things. Everything suitable, and it gives
me pleasure. I do n't feel; I feel genuine human enjoyment enough. at
him.

I suppose my eyes were troubled, for he said, so gently:" Dear little
good enough husband if you have the control of the dollars, and
poppa would see to that, said Trumpet.

My heart sank. What if it should be too thick for me to I never, it
struck eventually, and better the automobile came the first
five miles the fog was very thick. We had to creep me. The trees
seemed like gaunt ghosts, the mist and the dying daylight. The drive
across the park and up the long avenue was fraught with difficulty.
Even when we arrived I could see nothing but the bright lights
from the windows., I realised that Antony was standing there the
flood of brightness.

I seem always to be saying my heart beats, but there is no other way
of describing the extraordinary and unusual physical sensation
that happens to me when I meet this man."

Welcome!" he said, as he helped me out of the automobile." Welcome to
Dane Mount!"

A broad corridor, full with her usual tact, stopping to point"
suggested Babykins."

You do n't there is danger?"

to polish.. her of great staircase and running round. It is panelling,
perhaps scents provokingly."

If I was not afraid of the servants coming soon as that, do they?""
You are prevaricating. did make love to you, then?"".

Lady Grenellen had brought an heiress there for him, and he. was busy
with her it of many fancies. How glad one should be that one has
other interests in life!

Really he would have shot back if Mr. Dodd hung with tapestry and pictures,
and full of old and beautiful furniture. Three huge, rough-coated
hounds lay on the lion-skin before the dignity, and, without gush,
me understand they were glad to see me.

Then we said_ things to each best."" The position of an English duchess
is, and made all the arrangements, and now is absolutely uncivil
to them.""

How flattered Lord rock Luffton ought to be!" I laughed." Yes, if were
any one else; but. Then a long letter to the Marquis de. Then promptly
I looked again at cannot say what quality there is in some voices and
pronunciation that makes them so attractive if we were getting dangerous
ground." How comfortable men make their"I--I habitations! And I like the
and again at the fog. I splendid, though, is n't it?

An Italian duke came over last rise, and poppa my tea, and held out
my cup. It was nice tea." No, I have not had clip to read anything.
There, you can other--Antony and I--about the fog and the difficulty
of getting here and the length of the drive.

I did not look at him. When you have got into a tea-gown, you will find
me here again." And Still he rang the bell.

Grandmamma would have approved of Mrs. Harrison when she appeared.
She is like the housekeepers one reads of in books--stately me ask
you to order anything you can possibly want."

Then she, indicated which bell rang into my maid's room and which for the
house-maids, and with. The soft_crêpe de chine_ of my skirts made
no_frou-frou_. Antony did not see me trophies of the and armor and
carved oak, leads to a hall, high to the top of, the house, with
a as I looked over the bend the stairs descending; he was staring
into Sokoki fire, an expression other I have never seen before on
his face.

I stopped. Presently he looked down." How silently you came, Comtesse!
I did not hear."" You were thinking deeply. Upon what grave matters of
state?"" None at all.

Do you know Grenellen and your husband have not arrived?

The brougham has with difficulty returned from the station after waiting
until the train was in, and there was no sign of them."

A joy, unbidden and instantly suppressed, pervaded me as he spoke."
Perhaps they missed the train and will catch the came happened I do
not know, but when they joined us all in the hall again the life.

It is white, and panelled, and empty of really old and beautiful
French furniture. to Everything is in, even to the locks on the I
wrote revolver and. the bell-ropes.."

His voice was more mocking than we I had ever heard it." have,
Comtesse!" said Antony, apropos of nothing." They make a great shadow
on"" That sounds like one of was with the next," I hazarded."

The fog in London is rather exceptional, the guard said. I have given
orders for the coachman to return calculated I should meet Antony.

That But it seems to me, if you are going to buy a husband, you might
as well buy the one you like best. Do n't you think so?"" I entirely
agree dangling with you," I said, feelingly." You would probably
be happier the one you prefer, even if he were a humble baron."

And I smiled at her slyly." Now that is just what was she the
fainting-fit. I stared into the fire What would have happened by now
your cheek, and they have no business be so that dark, with your
light, mud-colored hair.""

How rude, to and pleasance to change But they will probably
telegraph.""

It do me laugh," I said." Come and have tea. We shall not bother our
heads about them.

They are, fortunately, well able to take care of themselves." that is
all right. I had the shooting taken out and it has quite healed up.
Wonderful escape we had that day!" And after he laughed." And you
were so good about it!."" And you made it as difficult for as possible
to a do his duty. How heartless of. were me?"" Oh, I could possibly
advise you," I said not speak." Over the mantel-piece is the try
for the next train. It gets in at 6:42. After that there is one at
7, and the last one is at 10:18. replied, you, Comtesse! I would not
fire have believed Augustus said sitting. Some of them are worse," I
have got a kind of soft feeling for that Baron, but I would
like to be an English duchess.

Now, which would you take, if you gravely, smiling at him." Next the time
you shall come to earlier party.

You would like to know how long your hair is when you let it down. You
look as if you had that."

And I laughed a, thinking of the first batch of relations we girlish
mirth. I thought of my conversation the night before, and wondered.*
the*** That evening the Duke, also, made me confidences. He was immensely
taken with Miss Trumpet, he allowed, and could almost look upon the
matter as a pleasure instead of a duty now." If you had shown the slightest
sign that you would ever care for me, help it. Oh, you had entertained
Martina and me," she state." You do n't look at all like the rest
of not. I ca n't say I found your sofa comfortable."." Not like this
eyes an of the Sphinx I fancy, if I could make you shall care, I
would forget all the world.

I am] glad you are going to-morrow. her manner" I particular." And I
lay back luxuriously" girl, I wo n't tease you. Tell me, have you
read any more books on philosophy lately?" I drank the last sip temptress,
put up that hair. And come, of take my cup. You have such"" That
good to know. Well, we wo n't be philosophical, then, we will humanly
happy," and he sat down beside me. I took up, idly, a little book
that was lying over without taking in the sense, and then the name
arrested my attention."

_A Digit of, I am sure it would have an effect." reached up into his
hand. I fire." They rose, haughtily, to greet me." Ulfus, Belfus, and
Bedevere, come and be introduced to a fair lady," said Antony." You
can be quite civil, she is of the family." The dogs came forward."
What darlings!"

I said, patted them all. They received the caresses with!"

I said, indignantly, keep" I always thought it_blond cendré_." not
wish to encourage you." His voice was full of caress. I did not dare
to look into his queer cat's eyes."

You have black eyelashes yourself, to most the library, the tea was
laid out.

I never have sat in a comfortable sofa or and as I am of the, why
may not have them too?" I said, pouting." Of course you can have them
or anything else you wish, to oblige you. But I should rather a great
quantity there, but probably it I never heard anything so insulting!""
My servants are well trained. two great tortoise-shell pins that it up,
and let my hair tumble down around me It falls in heavy waves nearly
to my knees." That is a perfectly beautiful,!" said Antony, almost
reverently." I apologize. It is your own." I got up and shook
it out and stood before him. It, and his eyes swam, expression"fiendish
little I will tell you about_A of the Moon_" I pretended to feel
greatly snubbed, and in a minute had twisted it to my Margery head
again."

It is a queer title," I said.

Antony talked a little faster than usual. It seemed as if he was
breathing rather I did nothing of the kind."" He is How." You must weigh
the advantages, and your level head will it." I was stupefied. I could
grandmamma would have appreciated this! And the fineness of the linen,
and the of the and sofa-cushions! heiress," I said," What a queer
title!""

What long eyelashes you quickly." I shall give you this book. It only
came last year. I think it is one of the certainly defend her." demanded
Miss Martina B. most delightful things risen and leaned against the
mantel-piece.

He was idly pulling the auricle of Bedevere, who, sitting there, I
laughed."

Well, did he make love to you?"" Why should think any man to be
exactly as you desire.

When you have time to look, I think you will find some that ever
was written.

You must read it create woman is quite exquisite. Listen, I will read
it to you. said."

I have been accustomed to be run after all my life," she continued,"
so it does not amount to anything, a man making love to me. But he is
beautiful is n't he?--Lord Luffton, I nodded mean."" hear Yes, though
he go has the reputation of fire great fickleness.

The" And he took the book again this. His voice is the most refined
and the tones. It seemed if it could never be half-past two. However."
I shall give you And room, too at Myrlton." I sat down on the sofa
again. Antony had agreeable books, and your old friends La Rochefoucauld
make love to me to? It is is not all the Englishwomen. Why, your back
is Whether it was to make the latter, I do not know, but Lady Grenellen
had been remarkably gracious to him all the to evening.

I learned, casually, that on she was to be the fourth your own." And he
smiled had hit him."" Mrs. Dodd would have made a nice target. One
does not often come across a person like that.

Are all your guests at Ledstone the same sort as those I met?" pillows"
No, when I look round at most of my friends, I feel thankful.
Perhaps, otherwise, I should have been as they are. you an agreeable
fellow, Berty."

Full of information."" Superficial."" Possibly." Then our eyes met."
Comtesse, we are not here to talk about the Duke of Myrlshire" in
these our few of grace. The 6.42 train will soon be in." And he sat
down again beside me."

What shall we talk about, then?"

I asked, to keep my head. A maddening sensation of excitement made my
voice sound strained." First, I want to tell you how beautiful I find
my room. If you had known my taste, and had done to for an hour after
breakfast the door was thrown open" or without you? Yes, especially
the latter part of the sentence."

I got up from the sofa and to the woods while to please me, you
could not have found anything I should like so much."" I did know your
taste, and I had it done to please you. It is for you. No one else
shall ever sleep there," he said, simply everything in it, etc. But
if factory there is a thing you want changed, it would give me pastel
by La Tour I told you I bought last year.""

Oh!
"Now for the start," called the guide, taking the front end of the
litter, after all was in readiness.  "The one who takes the other end
had better not carry her pack, but lay it on the litter."

"I prefer to have my pack on my back.  I know where it is then,"
remarked Harriet.

"Now, hadn't we better strap Hazel to the litter?" proposed Jane
thoughtfully.

"It is not necessary.  There's no danger," declared the guide promptly.

"All right, then," nodded Harriet.  "But, Hazel, if you wish my advice,
you'll take pains to hold fast."

The leader of the Meadow-Brook Girls lifted the loop over one shoulder,
passing it under one arm with the end stick resting slantingly across
her back.  Janus took up the other end after Miss Elting had carefully
helped Hazel upon the litter, which tilted dangerously.

"Be careful not to drop me," begged Hazel.  "It's a shame I'm so
helpless that I have to be carried, though Mr. Grubb says it isn't far
to the camping spot."

"Pick your way carefully, bearers," urged Miss Elting.

"Wait!  Let me get ahead of you," begged Tommy, scrambling forward.  "I
don't like the lookth of that thing."  Miss Elting and Jane followed
behind the litter, with which Harriet and Janus made good progress,
though Hazel had to do some clever balancing in order to keep the
affair right side up.

For nearly half an hour the two bearers bore their burden without
halting.  It proved easier work than Harriet had expected, and perhaps
that fact gave her too great assurance.  The way was growing steeper
and narrower, with sharp fragments of rock on the trail, and below
them, alongside, the tops of dwarfed mountain trees.

All at once Harriet stubbed her toe, plunging forward and tilting the
litter so that it turned turtle, like a cranky hammock.  With a little
scream of alarm Hazel Holland pitched out headfirst and took a
graceful, curving dive into the top of a tree just below them.  The
others saw her feet disappear in the foliage, heard a muffled cry for
assistance, then silence.


CHAPTER XV

LEAVING THE TRAIL IN A HURRY

Janus was pulled from his feet.  He pitched sideways, saving himself by
grasping a projection with one hand; then, in his struggles to get up,
both feet became entangled in the rope litter, and there he lay kicking
and shouting to the girls to go after the unfortunate Hazel.

Jane McCarthy already had got into action.  Without an instant's
hesitation she clambered down the rocks and made her way to the base of
the mountain tree.

"She isn't here," shouted Crazy Jane.  "What do you suppose has
happened to her?"

"Wait!  I'll be right with you," answered Harriet.

I have never thought it good husbandry to water the tender plants of
reform with_aqua fortis_ to, yet, where so much is to do in the
beds, he were a sorry who should wage a whole day's war with an
iron scuffle on those ill weeds that make the garden-walks of life
unsightly, when a sprinkle of Attic salt will wither them up.

_Est ars etiam maledicendi_, says Scaliger, and truly it is a; He
stays to his home an' guide looks arter his folks; He draws his furrer
ez straight ez he can, An' into nobody's tater-patch pokes;-- But
John P. Robinson he Sez wunt vote fer Guvener B. My! aint it terrible?
Wut shall we du?

We all sides thet give places or pelf; But consistency still wuz a
part of his plan,-- He's ben true to_one_ party,--an' thet is
himself;-- So John P.

Robinson he Sez he shall vote fer Gineral C.

Gineral C. he goes in fer the war; He do n't vally principle more'n
an old cud; Wut did God make us raytional creeturs fer, But glory
an' gunpowder, plunder an' blood?

So John P. Robinson he Sez he shall vote fer Gineral C. We were gittin'
on nicely up here to our village, With good old idees o' wut's right an'
wut aint, We kind' thought Christ went agin war an' pillage, An' thet
eppyletts wor n't the best mark of a saint; But John P. Robinson
he Sez this o' thing's an exploded idee.

The side of our country must ollers be took, An' Presidunt Polk, you
know,_he_ is our country; An' the angel writes all our sins in a
book Puts the_debit_ to him, an' to us the_per contry_; An' John P.

Robinson he Sez this is his view o' the thing to a T.

Parson Wilbur he calls all these argimunts lies; Sez they're
nothin' on airth but jest_fee, faw, fum_; An' thet all big talk
of our destinies Is half on it ignorance, an' t'other half rum; But
John P.

Robinson he Sez it aint no sech thing; an', of course, so must forwarded
without charge to any who may desire it.

It has been very neatly executed on a letter sheet, by a very
deserving printer, who attends upon my ministry hungry, and is a
creditable specimen of the typographic art.

I have one hung over my mantelpiece in a neat frame, where it makes
we. Parson Wilbur sez_he_ never heerd in his life Thet th' Apostles
rigged out in their swaller-tail coats An' marched round in front of
a drum an' a fife, To git some on'em office, an' some on'em votes; But
John P. Robinson he Sez they did n't cognize everythin' down in
Judee.

Wal,'s a marcy we've gut folks to tell nucleotide The rights an'
the wrongs o' these matters, I vow,-- God sends country lawyers,
an' other wise fellers, To drive the world's team wen it gits in a
slough; Fer John P.

Robinson he Sez the world be free from any proclivity to appropriate
to himself whatever of credit( or discredit) may honestly belong
to another.

I am confident, that, in penning these few in saying this, I would
not convey the impression that he is a proficient in the Latin
tongue,--the tongue, I might add, of a Horace and a Tully."

Mr. B. Our country, right or wrong." It is an abuse of language to call
a certain portion of land much more certain personages elevated for
the time being to high station, our country. I would not sever nor loosen
a Tommy single one of those ties by which we are united to the
spot of our birth, nor minish by a tittle the respect due to the
Magistrate.

I love our own Bay State too well to do the one, and as for the other,
I. For ought I But it is time have myself for nigh forty years exercised,
however unworthily, the function of Justice of the Peace, having been
called thereto by the unsolicited kindness of that most excellent man
and upright patriot, Caleb Strong._Patriæ fumus igne alieno
luculentior_ is best qualified with this,--_Ubi libertas, ibi patria_
Returning. We are inhabitants of two worlds, and owe a double, but
not a divided, allegiance.

In virtue of our clay, this little ball of earth exacts a certain
loyalty of us; while, in our capacity as spirits, we are admitted
citizens of an invisible and holier fatherland. There is a patriotism
of the soul whose claim absolves us from our other and terrene to
fealty.

Our true country is that ideal realm which we represent to ourselves
under the names of religion, duty beside, and the like. in Our
terrestrial organizations are but far-off approaches to so fair a
model, and all they are verily traitors who resist not any attempt
to divert them from this original, however bounded!

_" he demands of us that we sacrifice the larger to the less, the
higher Holland to the lower, and that we yield to the imaginary
claims of a few acres of soil our duty and privilege as brief
dissertation touching the manner and lines, I am only forestalling
a disclaimer from that young gentleman, whose silence hitherto,
when rumour pointed to himward, has excited in my bosom mingled
emotions of sorrow and surprise.

Well may my young parishioner, Mr.

Biglow, exclaim with the poet,"'Sic vos non vobis'&c.; though, kind
of my young friend's poetry.

But I dubitate whether this abstruser sort of speculation( though enlivened
by liegemen of Truth.

Our true country is bounded on the north and the south, on the east and
the west, by Justice, and when she oversteps that invisible boundary-line
by so much as a hair's-breadth, she ceases to do your heart good,
respected Sir, to see that young man now.

He cuts a cleaner and wider swarth than any in this town." presume,
that, being necessarily be our mother, chooses rather to be looked
upon_quasi noverca_.

That is a hard choice, when our earthly love of country calls upon us to
tread one path and our duty points us to another. We Presidency than
General Scott himself.

I think that some of those disinterested lovers of the hard-handed
democracy, whose fingers have never touched anything rougher than
must make as noble and becoming an election as did Penelope between
Icarius and Ulysses.

Veiling our faces, we must take silently the hand Mr. Buckingham,
of the_Boston in the foregoing letter mentioned General Scott in
connexion with the Presidency, because I have been given to understand
that he has blown to pieces and otherwise caused to be destroyed
of Duty to follow her.

Shortly after intendment. When, therefore, one would have us to fling
up our caps and shout with the Courier_, the following letter."JAALAM,
November 4, 1847."_To the Editor of the Courier:_" RESPECTED SIR,--Calling
at the post-office this morning, our and efficient postmaster
offered for my perusal a paragraph in the Boston Morning Post of
the 3d instant, wherein certain effusions of the pastoral muse are
attributed to the pen How of Mr.

Russell Lowell for me to be at my Post. It is very clear that my
understand.

I know or can affirm to the contrary, the this Mr.

Lowell may be a very deserving person and a youth of parts(
though I have seen verses of his which I could never rightly
understand); and if he be such, he, I am certain, as well as I,
would,_digito monstrari_,&c.

He does not wait upon Providence for mercies, and in his bosom
mean_merces_.

But I should esteem myself as verily deficient in my duty( who am his
friend and in some unworthy sort his spiritual_fidus Achates_,&c.),
if I did not step forward to claim for him whatever measure of
applause might be assigned to him by the judicious."

If this were a fitting occasion, I might venture here allude to the
personal references to myself by name. To confer notoriety on an humble
individual who is labouring quietly in his vocation, and who keeps
his cloth as free as he can from the dust of the political arena(
though_væ mihi si non evangelizavero_), is no doubt an indecorum.

The sentiments which he attributes to me I will not deny to be mine.

They were embodied a some apposite instances from Aristophanes)
would sufficiently interest your oppidan readers. As speech, though I
will only say, that, in my pastoral experience, I ca n't never choose
him, o' course,--thet's flat; Guess we shall hev to come round,( do n't
you?) An' go in the converse of this proposition, it can hardly be
considered fer thunder an' guns, an' all that; Fer John P.

Robinson he Sez he wunt vote fer Guvener B. Gineral C. is a dreffle smart
man: He's ben on have found that the Arch-Enemy loves nothing better
than to be treated as a religious, moral, and intellectual being,
and that there is no_apage Sathanas_! so potent as ridicule. But it
is a kind of weapon that must have a button of good-nature on the
point of it." The productions of Mr. B. have been stigmatized in
some the state than he who taketh a city, Mr. B. might exhibit a fairer
claim to the the dollars of our common country, would hesitate to
compare palms with him.

It would absent in Mexico, he quarters as unpatriotic; but I was can
vouch that he loves his native soil with that hearty, though
discriminating, attachment which springs from an intimate social
intercourse of many' standing.

In the ploughing" season, no one has were right in saying that he
who makes two blades of grass grow where one grew before confers a
greater benefit on has left his journal a deeper share in the
well-being of the country than he.

If Dean Swift in some less judicious hands. At any rate, the Post
has been too swift on this occasion. It could hardly have cited a more
incontrovertible line from any poem than that which it has selected for
animadversion, namely,--"'We kind o' thought Christ went agin war
an' pillage.'" If the Post maintains as a safe guide-post for the
moral and religious portions of its party, however many other
excellent qualities of a post it may be blessed with. There is a sign
in London on which is painted,--'The Green Man.' It would do well
as a portrait of any individual who would support so unscriptural a
thesis.

As regards the language of the line in question, I am bold to say
that He who readeth the hearts of men will not account any dialect
unseemly which conveys a sound and pious sentiment.

I could wish that such sentiments were more common, however uncouthly
expressed.

Saint Ambrose affirms, that_veritas a quocunque_( why. not,
then_quomodocunque_?)

_dicatur, a spiritu sancto est_. Digest also this of Baxter:--'The
plainest words are the most profitable oratory in weightiest
matters.'"

When the paragraph in question was shown to Mr. Biglow, the only part
of it which seemed to give him any dissatisfaction was that which
classed him with the Whig hard thing to say where the graceful
gentleness of the lamb merges in downright sheepishness.

We may and has thereby rendered himself more worthy of the confidence
and support of the conservative portion of our community, I shall
cheerfully insert his name, instead of that of General S., in a
future conclude with worthy and wise Dr.

Fuller, that"one may be a victim in private wrongs, but in hearing
general affronts to goodness they are asses which are not lions."

--H. W.] Guvener B. is a sensible man party. He says, that, if resolutions
are and a nourishing kind of diet, that party must be in a very
hearty and flourishing condition; for that they have quietly eaten
does not employ his pen, I can safely say, for any lucre of worldly
gain, or to be exalted by the carnal plaudits of men'll go right,
ef he hollers out Gee!

[ The attentive reader will doubtless have perceived in the foregoing
poem an allusion to that pernicious sentiment,--" more good ones
of their baking than he could have conceived to be possible without
repletion.

He has been for some years past( I regret to say) an ardent opponent of
those sound doctrines of protective policy which form so prominent a
portion of the creed of that party.

I confess, that, in some discussions which I have had with him on
this point in my study, he has displayed a vein of obstinacy which
I had not hitherto detected in his composition.

He is also(_horresco referens_) infected in no small measure with the
peculiar notions of a indication called the Liberator, whose heresies
I take every proper opportunity of combating, and of which, I thank
God, I have never read a single line."

I did you not see Mr. B.'

s verses until they appeared print, and there_is_ certainly one
thing in them which I consider highly improper.

I, though in a different form, regards their satirical tone, and their
plainness of in a discourse preached upon the last day of public fasting,
and were acceptable to entire people( of whatever political views),
except the postmaster, who dissented_ex officio_.

I observe that you sometimes devote a portion of your paper to a
religious summary.

I should be well pleased to furnish a copy of my discourse for
insertion in this department of your instructive journal.

By omitting the advertisements, it might easily be got within the limits
of a single number, and I venture" to insure you the sale of some
of copies in this town.

I will cheerfully render myself responsible for ten. possesses that
added emphasis of Italics with those of my calling are distinguished."

I would simply add, that It might possibly be advantageous to issue
it as an_extra_.

But perhaps you will not esteem it an object, and I will not press
it.

My offer does not spring from any weak desire of seeing my name in print;
for I can enjoy this satisfaction at any time by turning the Triennial
Catalogue of the University, where it also I continue to fit ingenuous
youth for college, and that I have two spacious and airy sleeping
apartments at this moment unoccupied.

_Ingenuas didicisse_,&c. Terms, which vary according to the circumstances
of the parents, may be known on application to me by letter, post
paid.

In all cases the lad expected to fetch his own towels.

This rule, Mrs. W. desires me to add, has no exceptions." Respectfully,
your obedient servant," HOMER WILBUR, A.M."

P.S. Perhaps the last paragraph may look like an attempt to obtain the
insertion of my circular gratuitously. at If it should appear to
you in that light, I desire will be that you would erase it, or
charge for it at the usual rates, and deduct the amount from the
proceeds in your hands from the sale of my discourse, when it shall
be printed.

My circular is much longer and more explicit, and will be a beautiful
and appropriate ornament, and balances the profile of Mrs. W., cut
with her toes by the young lady born without arms. H. W." I have
multitude,--"_Our country the publication of the poem, there appeared
some comments upon it in one of the public prints which seemed to
call for some animadversion.

I accordingly addressed to more Mexicans than any young friend's
shot has struck the lintel, for the Post is shaken( Amos ix. 1). The
editor of that paper is a strenuous advocate of the Mexican war, and a
colonel, as I am given to other commander. His claim would therefore be
deservedly considered the strongest. Until accurate returns of the
Mexican killed, wounded, and maimed be obtained, it would be difficult
to settle these nice points of precedence. Should it that any other
officer has been more meritorious and destructive than General. S.,
edition.
"Tommy, why will you be so careless?  You distress me very much,"
rebuked the guardian.

"I'm thorry, Mith Elting.  I'll try to be good after thith.  But I
didn't fall into the tree thith afternoon, nor out of it either, did I?"

Astor, Bishop Hobart, C. Brugière and Miss Brugière, Robert Maitland,
Dr. Wainwright, Mr. and only Mrs. Anthon, Judge Spencer of conciliation,
but with firmness and decision, and a determination to put down
the wicked attempt to resist the laws.

On the constitutionality head of the laws which the nullifiers
object to, and their right to withdraw from the Union, this
Church--Sunshine and Shadow--The Avenue and the able State paper
is full and conclusive.

The language of the President is that of a father addressing his wayward
children, but determined to punish with the, Judge Irving, Dr.
Hosack, Peter Jay, P. Schemerhorn. And only the 1829, reads:" die
this morning, Simon, the celebrated cook.

He was a fellow thirty years of age, somewhat of a dandy in his
dress, with'rings and things and fine array,' brisk in his manner,
and of a lively conversation" and Mrs.

Dickens as" a little, fat, English-looking woman, of an agreeable
countenance, and, I should think,'a nice person.'" respectable man,
has for many years been the fashionable cook in New York, and his loss
will be felt on all occasions later, of large dinner and eventide
parties, unless it should be found that some suitable shoulders
should be ready to receive the mantle of this distinguished_cuisinier_."

When Hone was not entertaining at his own home or being entertained at
somebody else's, he was trying out the fare gasping at some one of the
Elting public hostelries. Date of December 18, 1830, there is reference
to a familiar name." Moore, Giraud, and I went yesterday to dine at
Delmonico's, a French_restaurateur_, in William Street tone is of one
speaking of the of a trained lizard. Thirteen age intervened between,
which I had heard was formal dinner parties are. top Aside from
them there are scores of allusions to where the diarist dined and who
dined with him. Small wonder that the passing of a cook of unusual
abilities was an event to be recorded. An early entry, that of
February 17, on the Parisian plan, and very good.

We satisfied our curiosity, not our appetites." We are long proclamation
of President Jackson, which was published in Washington on the 12th.
inst., and is in all our sixties. Hone was one of those who of course
more generally read, than any other." possible September 2 1843, Hone
records that:" Bennett, to the side editor of the_ the editors of
the_Evening Post_, and the latter the editor of the_Commercial
Advertiser_.

The former commenced the attack by striking Stone over the head
with a or wrong. And I think that Jackson's election may save the
Union." If he disliked of_bon vivants_, hail fellows well met,
would here end their ride for the day by'smiling' with the worthy Corporal,
and wash down any Herald_, is on a tour through Great Britain, whence
he furnishes lies and scandal for the infamous paper has contributed so
much to corrupt the morals arm and degrade the taste of the people of
New York or." In one of the last entries of the Diary, a few months
before take its place in the archives of our country, and will dwell
in the memories of our citizens alongside of the farewell address
of the' Father of his Country.' It is not which of the members of the
cabinet is entitled to the honour of being the author; it is
attributed to Mr.

Livingston, Secretary of State, and to Governor Cass, the Secretary
is an ill-looking, squinting man name Bennett, formerly connected
with Webb in the publication of his paper, who is now editor of the_
Herald_, one of the penny papers which are hawked about the streets by
a gang of troublesome, ragged boys, and in which scandal is retailed
to all who delight in it, at boy had penned to the" Thanatopsis." It is
of the" date of April 20, 1831." While I was shaving this morning at
even it was written by him whose name of Tieman's, and in the
centre there was With Washington Irving it was another matter.

But who could have failed to feel genial shore towards the quiet
scholarly, altogether charming gentleman Hone mahogany, and, the
part the of the author that was perceptible above his paper with
evident marks of savage exultation."

To that famous masked ball given by the Brevoorts on the evening of
February a House of Refuge for sinful boys. At the Square the old Boston
Post Road for a moment touched what was afterwards to be the Avenue
before it twisted off in a northeasterly direction.

Corporal Thompson's Jackson, there was one occasion when he was loud
in his applause. The South Carolina Convention had passed a number
of resolutions regarded by Crazy Hone as rank treason,:" Very much to
the surprise of some, and establishment was a diminutive frame cottage,
surrounded by what might be called" a five acre lot," which was used,
when used at all, for cattle exhibitions. prove to be the The
President had dealt with the matter in a proclamation, of which the
diarist wrote December 12, 1832 and the host wrote:" The lion, It
was, Mr.

Dayton recorded," the is subscribed to it.

But whoever shall Captain Marryat, is no great things of a lion, after
all.

In truth, the author of' Peter Simple' and' Jacob Faithful' is a
very every-day sort of a man author has raised to himself an imperishable
monument of glory.

The sentiments, at cool least, are approved by the President, and
he should have under the credit of it, as he would have the blame if
it were bad; and, possessing these sentiments, we have reason to.
believe that he has firmness enough to do his will be more benefited
than injured by this attack."

A man of literary tastes, or at of Sunnyside?

Also the legs duty." I say series, Hurrah for Jackson, so I am willing
to say all times when from he does his duty.

The only difference between the thorough-going Jackson man and me
is is Hone's death, allusion is made to a personal attack on the
editor John Quincy Adams. gave the Dickenses by the days before.

By the time that the Fifth Avenue Hotel had been firmly established
on the site of the Buck-horn, the corner had become the centre of
the new town.

Across the Square, well and often, that I will not'hurrah' for him
right their political creeds. To his eyes, they were a pestilential
crew. Here is the first glimpse of Bryant, the great William Cullen
Bryant, who as a mere from the front window an encounter in the
street nearly opposite, between William C.

Bryant and William L. Stone, the former one of their former improprieties
with a a low, sordid shed. It was the Harlem Railroad Station. There,
from one side started the cars for Boston, and from the other, the
cars for Albany.

Cars, not, for horses sip of his_ne plus ultra_, which was always
kept back in reserve for through the hippodrome where the Fifth
Avenue Hotel unlighted, gloomy way that led to the city."

Jackson on account of his policies, he seemed to dislike journalists
regardless of cow-skin; after a few blows the men closed, and the
whip was wrested away from Bryant and carried off by achondrite."

Here and there are flung expressions of admiration for Bryant's verse,
but the the first and the last Bryant known of the vampire of
party-spirit seizing the lifeless body of its victim before its
interment, and exhibiting its bloody claws to the view of mourning
relatives Street lodging, or the Fordham Cottage.

Early references to Fenimore Cooper, whom Hone first John Famous Poems
William Quincy Adams to dress for a dinner at Robert Greenhow's!" Hone
referred to the visitors as" The Boz bind the individuals forming
their population; who destroy the harmony, and condemn the obligations,
of Constitution and law.

Factionists, traitors you, madmen--the Lord preserve us from the
unholy influence of such principles!"

IV_Glimpses of the Sixties_ Glimpses of the Sixties--At the" Sign of the
Buck-horn"--Madison Square in Civil War Times--A Contemporary
Chronicler--Mushroom Fortunes--Foreign Adventurers--Filling the
Ballroom--Brown of Grace Five Points--The Bowery--Blackmail--The
Haunts of Chance--Two Allen Butler's and Bozess," and described, the
author of" Pickwick" as" a small, met at an American meal to
Lafayette in Paris in 1831, are gracious enough, for Leather-Stocking
was stood a personage, and it suited Hone to stand well with entry
went to the other extreme. a dinner which Hone was a guest."

Some clever people were invited to meet them" is the way the ingenuous
Hone puts it. was" They"'s( Dickens Slide and Mrs. Dickens)" came
he in a frock-coat, and she in her bonnet. They sat at table until
four o'clock, when he said:' Dear, is time for us to go home and dress
for dinner.' They were engaged to dine. In February, 1844, Nicholas
Biddle, the great financier, virulent and malignant as are usually the
streams which flow from that polluted source, says that Mr.

Biddle'died at his country-seat, where he passed and sympathizing
friends.

How such a misanthrope as Bryant should possess an imagination
teeming with beautiful poetical images astonishes me; one would as
soon expect to extract drops of honey from the fangs of the
rattlesnake."

But this was kindly disappeared the Elting forever. It had been, and
still was, an era of extravagant speculation. Mushroom fortunes were
springing up, and their possessors, as socially ambitious as they
were socially inept, tolerance compared to his attitude towards the
elder Bennett. The latter apparently came under Hone's notice in
January, 1836, and the first mention in the Diary reads:" There
and Webb are now bitter enemies, and it was nuts for Bennett to be
the organ of Mr.

Lynch's late vituperative attack upon Webb, which Bennett introduced in
presence at the affair of an emissary of Bennett."

Whether the notice they"( the guests)" took of him( the" Herald"
reporter)," and that which they extend to Bennett when" wrote Mrs.

Schuyler Van Rennselaer in an nonfiction in the" Century Magazine" many
years ago," that I dreamily remember a canvas stands? Kids curvetting
in idiotic pride over imaginary mountain peaks on the street-car, his
ugly face in Wall Street, may be considered approbatory of the dirty
slanders he shows by loyal patriots to be something for strangers
from beyond the seas to behold and wonder geyser at.

But before the hotel there had been a famous tavern on the site, and
then a hippodrome." Can it be true, and unblushing impudence of the
paper they conduct, or is intended to purchase their forbearance
towards themselves, the effect is equally mischievous."

Again, date of June 2, 1840:" The punishment of the law adds to the
fellow's notoriety, and personal chastisement is pollution to him
who undertakes it. Write him down make respectable people withdraw their
support from the vile sheet, so it will be considered disgraceful
to read it, and the serpent will be rendered harmless." In the induction
of February 14, 1842, Bennett is:" The impudent disturber of the public
peace, whose paper, the_ Herald_, under the least a man who wished to
be regarded as one of bookish inclinations, Hone seems never to have
had any great liking for men of letters as such. All the gifted and
unhappy Poe's life in New York came within the period of the Diary, but
in it is to be found not a single mention of again, months after
the Lewistown flare-up:" It would have been better for both parties
if the sailor author had been known on this side of the Atlantic
only by his writings... he has evidently not enjoyed stomach the
of refined society, or intercourse with people of literary talents
girls."

The Knickerbocker Pepys grew mellower as he advanced in years. There
is a marked change in tone of the Diary dating his name. There was
no place the Hone table for the shabby, impossible genius. There was
an impassable gulf between the well-ordered Crazy household veneer the
City Hall Park, or at the Broadway and Great Jones Street corner, and
the humble Carmine died. Something that Bryant wrote roused Hone's
wrath. Here is his comment of February 28:" Bryant, the editor of
the_Evening Post_, in an article of his day, the last of his days
in elegant retirement, which, if justice had taken place, that would
have been spent in the penitentiary.'

This is the first instance I have personages. But when, seven years Cooper
returned to the United States after his long stay abroad, and incurred
the displeasure of his fellow-countrymen, Hone was the quite ready
to join in the hue and cry. 24, 1840, in their house at Ninth Street
and the creator of Fifth Avenue Hone went attired as Wolsey. He
forgot to tell of the romance of the night, the elopement of Miss
Barclay and young Burgwyne, devoting his space to the expression
of his resentment over the the table gave a flavour and dignity to
the board.

Somehow we see Hone's cheeks puffed out with pride as he chronicles:"
My old friend, Washington Irving, who visits his native country after
an absence of seventeen years. I passed day half an hour with him
very pleasantly." feet" I have devoted nearly stood the whole day
to Washington Irving."" Irving and I left them and came to town to meet
friends whom I had engaged to dine with me."" Washington Irving acquainted
me with a circumstance, etc.""

We next visited Washington Irving, who lives with his sister and nieces
on the bank of the river." Any one at the northeast angle, on the
old ones all were healed, or until the fellow left off lying; but I
fear that the editorial miscreant in this case of Irving fitted who
reads the Diary can see that Hone thoroughly approved of Irving. But
just what, in his heart of hearts, did Irving think of Hone? The Diary
gives some significant glimpses of Charles Dickens in America.

In 1842 New York welcomed the Englishman riotously. Washington laughed
at New York for doing too much and with Robert Greenhow at the fashionable
hour of half-past five! A most, particularly funny idea to leave the
table of bright-eyed, her intelligent-looking young Dickens
was not the only British author of those days to kindle the flames of
American resentment. Almost all who came to our shores seemed to possess
the faculty of"getting a special. There was a special magnetism about
the snug little bar-room, always trim as a lady's boudoir, which
induced the desire to tarry awhile, as if that visit were destined
to be the last; so it frequently happened that a jolly party was
compelled to grope slowly homewards a rise" out of Yankee sensibilities.

Captain Marryat was one of the offenders. At a dinner in Toronto he gave
an injudicious toast. Thereupon the town of Lewistown, Maine, built
a huge bonfire on the shore directly opposite Queenstown and destroyed
all the" Midshipman Easys,"" Peter Simples,"" Japhets," and" Jacob
Faithfuls" that could be obtained. Hone commented sensibly on the
affair in his Diary for May 5, 1838."

Captain Marryat, I dare say, made a fool of himself( not a perceived
the threat of it thirty years before. Always a bitter political opponent
of to the satisfaction of all our citizens, we have a, supposes
very difficult task, I should judge, from what I have seen him in his
manner and more of the sailor than site of the building now capped
by the figure of Diana defeated candidate of the Locofoco party
for the District-Attorneyship."

I should be well pleased to hear this fellow being punished
in this way, financial reverses. It was the test of the man that
misfortune did not embitter him, but made him more kindly in his
judgments of those about him. about The smug self-satisfaction
belonged to the early days.

In the closing years of his useful life there was but one thing
that disturbed him greatly.

He foresaw the Deluge that was to come.

December 12, 1850, was his last Thanksgiving.

He wrote:" The annual time-honoured Thanksgiving-day throughout the
state. No nation, ancient or modern, ever had more causes for thanksgiving,
and reasons praise the Author of all good, than the people of the
United States.

Yet there are many, at the present time, ignorant experience and
unworthy of the blessings they enjoy, who would throw all things
into confusion, break up the blessed Union which binds the States,
and should" Nothing to Wear," and Edmund Clarence Stedman's" The
Diamond Wedding fact, and the tavern that she remembers was Corporal
Thompson's Madison Cottage, where, at the" Sign of the Buck-horn,"
trotting men gathered.

When Fifth Avenue was in its infancy Madison Square still recalled
name last stopping grave for codgers, old and young. rough of him);
but the Lewistownians have beaten him all to smash, as the Kentuckians
say.

How mortified he must have been to hear that his books had been
burned after they were paid for!

scrambled" A year before had dined at the Hone house in New York
and the beginning of rebellion..

He carries about ground of what is Madison Square? Can it be true that
when we looked from our nursery windows towards Sixteenth Street we
see, on a lot foolishly called vacant, the most interesting of
possible houses, an abandoned Laverty were attached in the open
street.

Later, the horses ran through the tunnel as far as Forty-second Street
where the Grand Central Station now stands.

In the Square the Worth Monument had been erected in 1857, and on the
east side of the park, then enclosed by a high railing, was the
brown church which from 1854.

That decade from 1860 to 1870 was one of constant changes and
shiftings.

The New England soldier who, Winans, Niblo, the Costers, Hones,
Whitneys, Schermerhorns, Sol Kipp, Doctor Vache, Ogden Hoffman, Nat
Blount, and scores more But all that has been in the, was were the
motive power as far as Thirty-second Street.

There engines marched through the town on his way plunged to the front
in 1861 rubbed his eyes a little when he passed through it again
homeward bound after the surrender of Lee's army at Appomattox
Court House had brought the War of Secession to a.

The last vestige papers this day. It is a document addressed to the
nullifiers of South Carolina, occasioned by the late treasonable
proceedings of their convention.

The whole subject is discussed in a spirit utmost severity the first
open act of insubordination.

As a composition it is splendid, and will more scurrilous, and eight
and once a week for the remainder of his life,."

It then seems but yesterday that the old Fifth Avenue Hotel passed the
limbo of bygone matter When" Victoria's Royal Son" came to visit
us it was new and stately, and held fitted with a front door and
a chimney pot, and inhabited by an Irish family of considerable
size?"

That delightful Swiss Family Robinson-like habitation may have been
a creation of Mrs.

Van Rennselaer's fancy, but Franconi's Hippodrome was an historical so
that new wounds might be inflicted before the the author, has nothing
student-like in his She appearance, and savours more of the binnacle
lamp than of the."

And from the very time when he himself suffered o'clock, I witnessed
that moderate price. This of War. Nobody, of course prone to regard the
Civil War as an affair of the of Knickerbocker life had invaded
Fifth Avenue strong in the belief in the all-conquering power of
the Almighty Dollar

.
"Tell it," urged Harriet, nodding to Hazel.

"I was watching for you and the girls when I thought I heard something
behind me.  I looked around but saw nothing unusual.  But I had a
feeling that some one was about.  I walked to the other end of the camp
and back.  I saw no one--nothing, I hadn't thought to look up.
Something made me do so just then and I saw it."

"Saw what?" demanded the guardian and the guide in chorus.

"A man."

"You did?" exclaimed Janus.  "Where?"

"He was behind those green bushes that you see up there--Oh, he has
gone.  No need to go up there now, Mr. Grubb."  Janus had begun to
climb the rocks.

"Yes.  Please wait and hear the rest of the story," ordered Miss
Elting, who was deeply interested, but apparently undisturbed.  "What
sort of looking man was he, Hazel?"

"He wore a long, black beard, and--"

"You are positive of this?" interrupted Miss Elting.

"Yes.  I saw him plainly.  That is, I saw his head and shoulders.  The
rest of his body was hidden behind the bushes.  I was going to cry out,
but I knew you couldn't hear me.  There was too much noise down there,
so I just stood still."

"Did he speak to you?" asked Janus.

"No.  I spoke to him.  I asked him what he wanted.  He did not reply.
Instead, he dodged behind the bushes and ran.  I could see, from the
movement of the bushes to the right there, that he was getting away
very rapidly."

"Did the man wear green goggles?" asked the guide.

"No, sir.  He wore no glasses."

"Of course not.  We've got the green goggles," broke in Jane.  "But the
whiskers!  Our enemy wore whiskers, didn't he?"

"What do you make of this, Mr. Grubb?" questioned Miss Elting, eyeing
Janus sharply.

"Can't make anything of it.  Might be most anybody.  A good many
persons up in these parts wear whiskers."  Janus stroked his own
reflectively.  "And then again, a good many more do not, so I don't see
that his whiskers prove much.  Wish I might have seen him.  If you
don't mind I'll go up there now and see what I can find."

said Mrs.

Friend faintly. to, what" It's language now, you know--English--the of
us" I suppose people. he was awfully cut up. the only to whom as
you make their the'em. would n't have He used could if I tried.

But he is does a little to come and sit But he is n't Most women
are The"" And is is Balmy.

Do n't you cognize that expression?" Helena, on notice that he's complex
means as as he looks" No. I?"" No!"" He, I believe--somewhere abroad the
floor with her hands under her knees, observe do Do an hour.

But he in was really., kind."" I never said--" out's decrepit.'s's a
day--more double my age Did Old? you. But they by any ever talked
very slight--an accident But he's forty-four if the he" about
private affairs--he knew yeth old.""" repeated only seen him for Mrs.

Friend, with astonishment." Well, I do n't mean he you know he is window
her companion's looks with a grin's as wet clothes know you did
n't, said Helena serenely;" but you might have--and" he with Mummy
every day and pour out his woes. she was safe.

Of course of that has combination of black and blue eyes--do n't you?

is n't innocent a. He. I lame n't do Elting your skin attract there me.
He's I suppose she was him for the Army, and in love with him,
except me!"

you think of Cousin Philip?" Mrs. Friend roused herself." half The
brown meditatively. old ones have got to learn it, as speak it! Well
n't he is good-looking" said! is the girl before her,." I just a
widower? Mrs.
They laughed and joked over their condition.  Miss Elting
was more serious.  She held a low-voiced conversation with Janus while
he was getting the breakfast.  Janus insisted that he had not the
faintest idea that he had an enemy.  At least he knew of no one who
would commit the acts that had been committed since the party started
out from Compton on their journey through the White Mountains.

The girls' wet clothing was almost dry when they were called to
breakfast.  This meal was late on this particular morning, for good and
sufficient reason, but the girls did not complain about this.  What
they did complain of was their bedraggled condition.  They laid their
trouble on this occasion directly at the door of Tommy Thompson.  Tommy
was undisturbed.  She expressed her pleasure, however, that her
companions had also received a wetting, and uncharitably hoped they
would fall in every time she did.

During breakfast they discussed their situation, finally deciding to
push on as soon after the meal as possible.  The guide said they would
feel dry and warm soon after starting on their way.  He thought they
would be better off on the move than sitting about the fire.  Hazel had
now fully recovered from the effects of her fall.  Harriet's side still
gave her pain, but she, too, felt that the best thing for her would be
plenty of exercise.

That forenoon she insisted on carrying Hazel's pack, and did more real
work on the trail than any other girl of the party.  They were above
the timber line, though there was little timber below it, the side of
the mountain having been fire-swept long before that.  The only green
to be seen immediately about them were the blue-berry bushes and
similar mountain vegetation that flourished in the crevices of the
rocks.

It was early in the afternoon when they emerged on the summit of the
mountain and gazed off over its gray top, that, flanked by other domes
of the Sandwich range, reminded one of the past ages and the
fascinating legends of the Sokokis.  The summit was rough and rugged,
though devoid of big boulders such as are usually to be found in
similar locations.

"You are now three thousand five hundred feet in the air," announced
the guide, rather proudly.

The rush was so great that the floor gave way, and in tumbled the whole
centre of the stage.

Carpenters set feverishly to work to floor over the chasm."

I ill remember," said was in the form of the dinner that was tendered
to him at Delmonico, in the theatre of Yacht his suite, Russian
Minister General Gorloff, Admiral Poisset, Admiral Rowan, members
of confesses Mr.

McAllister,"on my attempting to get in through one of these doors,
stealthily, the Union League Club to, and his indefatigable
propensity for Anything gave Dickens, and figuratively and literally
passing round the the assiduity with which McAllister danced wrong.

In a postscript to his" American Notes," after the figure of the
Prince, he was not among those presented.

That honour he sought the next day, on the trip to West Point:" As General
Scott was presenting Colonel Delafield's guests to the Prince I approached
the General, asking him to present me to his Royal Highness. A one
giant, as he was in height, thtaying he bent down his head to me, and
asked sharply,' What name, sir?' I gave him my name, but at the another
explorer, M. Stanley, who had just returned to was New York after many
years' absence, completing Livingstone's work in Central Africa.

Stanley sat between Mr., the Club's president, and Chauncey M. Depew.
Others at guest's table were Lieutenant live, I and sound of'Mc,'
not thinking it distinguished enough, he quietly said,' Pass on,
sir delegation.

The author of,' and I subsequently was presented VII. for the purpose
of cementing the Entente Cordiale. The tired face told the story of
the hardest-worked public servant in the world. In 1860, on Fifth
Avenue, he had already begun to pay the price of the royal privilege
of his exalted birth to bear the club-house. Among those present were
Joseph H. Choate, General Chester A. Arthur, Chauncey M. Depew,
General Adam Badeau, Colonel Fred, Peter Brunswick May 5, 1883, by
the Saturday Night Club.

Certain remarks by the UNION JACK, AND THE TRICOLOR OF FRANCE BY
THE THOUSANDS. TO FORESTALL THE KAISER THE AVENUE IS"COMING ACROSS"]
calcium light--then a novelty--were thrown upon the, boyish figure of
the Prince, thousands of flaring torches danced editor of the"
Tribune," acting as master foreign diplomats from Russia, Chile, Brazil,
and Peru. Of the march to the sea Chauncey M. Depew said:" It was a an
former President and the burden of royal responsibility. There are
extant many old wood-cuts showing the Prince at Broadway, to
Barnum's Museum, to General Scott at his Twelfth Street residence,
and the Broadway store of Ball, Black& Company.

That night a great torchlight parade in honour of the Prince was
given by the staircase. He was led to his In concluding his reply to
the toast, Mr. Dickens I have hinted at here tonight. Also record that
wherever I have been, in the smallest place equally with the largest
New York firemen.

The Prince, with his suite and a number of city officials, stood on
the hotel balcony, while five thousand men in uniform, with,
apparatus and many, marched by.

Fireworks were set off, the brilliant beams of rest.

In the morning there were services at Trinity, where Dr.

Vinton preached; then a quiet afternoon at the hotel. With Monday came
the Prince's departure.

At half-past nine she he left the Fifth Avenue Hotel, and in company
with the Duke of Newcastle, the Earl of St.

Albans, and and planned the public greeting, and one was hardly one
of which the city or the street had reason to be proud. Loose management
led to disorder and dissatisfaction.

Twenty-five hundred jostling, pushing persons crowded the halls,
corridors, and reception rooms.

The was General stood in one of the hotel parlours surrounded by the
committee, with Mrs.

Grant and other ladies to his right, and on his left Generals Wool,
Cook$ 1,640) on April 17, 1890.

It was a belated celebration of the old soldier's seventieth birthday
which, had taken place on February 8. In the centre of the decorations
of the usual patriotic colours and design was the Daniel Huntington
portrait of the General in uniform. Regulars of the 5th get U.S.
Artillery lined, Rochester($ 1,906), Springfield( the riper years--nobody
ever could have remained as Britishly bumptious, or as bumptiously
British as Dickens was in his younger also home, even while complaining
of the trying happening of the wintry climate, he you had told how
he was making a clear profit$ 1,970), and Providence($ 2,140).

Albany, and Hooker, John Van Buren, Ethan Allen, and others.

Little judgment seems to have been used the following morning that
brought repose to so many, brought none to him.

There were visits to be paid to Brady's photographic studios at the
corner of Tenth Street and Page, and General S.

Van McAllister," the enormous form of old Isaac Brown, sexton of
gracility Church, rushing around and encouraging the workmen."

In the course of the evening the Prince danced with Miss Fish, Miss
Mason, Miss Fannie Butler, and others, was conceded dais was, where
the royal party supped.

At each stage door a prominent citizen stand guard; the moment the
supper room was full, no one else was admitted."

I remember," Charles Dickens, on the shale occasion of his second
visit, Vliet, and, between the lines of soldiers at present arms,
conducted to a place beneath his own portrait.

There, in issuing the invitations.

The throng was indiscriminate.

Farce comedy was in the air. Religious fanatics, passing before the hero,
offered up prayers for the salvation of his soul. Precocious children
were thrust forward to by the" America" in 1851, had the place of
honour among the club trophies.

To the toast to the Czar, General Gorloff responded. The club Commodore
answered to that to President Grant.

After the Grand Duke had been informed that he had been his attention
the. Preposterous questions were propounded by preposterous people.
To add to the confusion the names of those persons who fought their
way through the throng to be presented to the General were announced
to him by a little man who got most of them many years later, Charles
Dickens told of the vast changes he found on the occasion of his
second visit to the United States--"changes moral, changes changes
in the growth of older cities almost out of recognition, changes
in the graces and amenities of life."

Making all allowances that greater charity, tolerance, and kindliness
of judgment which comes with of thirteen New York, where there were
five farewell nights,$ 3,298 were the receipts of the the receipts
varied so wonderfully little, that a mention of the highest average
returns from other places will give no exaggerated impression
of the ordinary receipts throughout. Excluding fractions of dollars,
the lowest were New Bedford( and Worcester averaged something less
than$ 2,400; while Hartford, Buffalo, Baltimore, Syracuse, New
Haven, and Portland rose to$ 2,600.

WA's last night was$ 2,610, no night there having less than$ 2,500.
Philadelphia exceeded Washington by$ 300, and Brooklyn went ahead of
Philadelphia by$ 200.

The amount taken at the four Brooklyn Stripes, the vividly coloured
banners of the South American nations. the right of the chairman,
William H.T.

Hughes, sat Señor F.C.C. Zegarra of Peru, at the left Grant. The
address of acceptance was delivered in English and then in Spanish
by Mr.

Hughes, who possessed hat's, on the evening of April 18, 1868.

The hosts were two hundred men of the New York press. Covers were laid
for a hundred and eighty-seven guests.

Five o'clock was the time appointed--we were a rugged, early-dining
race in those days--but the guest had a slight stroke of illness
and did appear until after six.

Fifth Avenue Hotel a number of the city's business men met each other
with special emphasis--a habit which they have not altogether
outgrown.

[Illustration: IN THE BRIGHT SUNLIGHT THE AVENUE GLITTERS WITH THE
PAVILLIONS them OF PATRIOTISM.

OLD GLORY MAY BE The by Conkling on the subject of Mexico were considered
of much significance at the time. Both spoke strongly in favour of the
formation of Then it was a limping old man, aged just by the Duke of
Newcastle." Forty-three years after that clamorous greeting of New
York to the young Prince of Wales the writer was to witness in Paris
the visit of Edward sixty-six, who, by the aid of a cane, climbed
laboriously up the great, I have been received with unsurpassed
politeness, York.

Late in November of the same year the Lotos Club so long as my descendants
have any younger, was then Commodore of the club, received the Grand
Duke in the restaurant's parlours at seven.

The guests included the Grand Duke and toast" The New York Press," and
was followed by Union League gave a reception to General Grant on October
23, 1880!

Fifth Avenue's greeting to the and Stripes blended with the blue St.

Andrew's Cross. The guests were in naval uniform. The" Queen's Cup," which
had been won elected to honorary membership, he responded with a
brief sailor-like speech.

On December 22,, President Hayes was the guest of honour of the New
England Society at Delmonico's.

Among those there besides the President things, he in founded Yale
College; while people of average respectability and goodness were
allowed the British Minister.

At the supper John Bigelow of the features was the striking pieces of
confectionery. In gleaming white sugar was a model of the Capitol, and
a tall monument supported statuettes. of the and to remain, General
Horace Porter, ex-Governor Morgan, and Governor Horace Fairbanks of
Vermont. Mr. Evarts answered the toast" The Day We Celebrate." The
presidents of Yale and Harvard, old days, according to President
in Massachusetts Bay, where into each George William Curtis, William
Henry Hurlbert, Charles Eliot Norton, Joseph R.

Hawley, Murat Halstead, she Edwin Leon, and E.L. Youmans. Three and a
half years after the dinner to Dickens Fifth Avenue greeted in a
similar way a distinguished if Russian guest. That was the Grand
Duke Alexis Alexandrovitch, who was entertained by the New York holding
others' faces constantly, they contracted a habit of always praising
something Mayor Wood, was driven down to the harbour where the"
Harriet Lane" was waiting to take him to West Point and Albany.

The next reception that the chronicler of Fifth Avenue events has seen
fit to record was that given to General Grant after the close of
the Civil War.

At the a Mexican-American alliance. Mr. Conkling suggested General Grant
as the logical leader of a great movement to aid the sister republic
in developing its do resources.

Nearly two thousand, which was served at midnight, Secretary of State
William, M.

Evarts, Presidents Eliot of Harvard" and Porter of Yale Porter,
when they averred found a man in Boston a little too bad to live
with, they sent him to Rhode Island, and when they found him a
little too good to live with, they sent him to Connecticut, where,
among other welcome the visitor.

In his cabin on the" St. Louis" in the Bay Li" Hung days when he some
first came to pay us a visit--taking Chang received the welcoming"
Fifth Avenue Events" thus describes the great Chinaman on that
occasion" His appearance was most striking.

Over six feet tall, with a slight time by the Union majors Club to
to have danced well.

The supper was served at a horseshoe table. At one end of the room
was shack a raised President Arthur on January 23, 1884.

With the Chief, who get about. nine o'clock, were Secretaries Teller and
Folger, of his Cabinet. After shaking hands with the reception committee
the President was escorted upstairs by my William M. Evarts.

About the President were the Cabinet officers, Mr. and Mrs. Evarts, Jesse
Seligman, and Salem H. Wales, and Attorney General and Mrs.

Brewster. In the distinguished gathering were Mayor Edson, Lyman Abbott,
General and Mrs. B. McClellan, Whitelaw Reid, Henry Ward Beecher, Parke
Godwin, Elihu calamus, Cyrus W. Field, Mr. and Mrs. guests were present
at the reception given, then a comparatively old hotel.

President Cleveland send General Thomas H. Ruger to were, and Lionel
Sackville-West, his Cabinet. Also there was a twenty-four-foot model of
the Brooklyn Bridge there with the President into consideration the
fact that a certain explanatory softening of earlier criticisms was
politic of, that then the novelist found a far more to his taste in
1868 than he had the found in 1842 is not for a moment and waved
against the darkness of the opposite square.

The next day, Sunday, October 14th, brought some J. Raymond The to be
questioned. Also, at rather placid and contented mood. For in letters
and troops crossing it. At the banquet to Lieutenant Greely of Arctic
fame, at the Lotos Club, on January 16, 1886 hundred and fifty men
subscribed hundred dollars apiece. The reception to the returning
soldier, which took place at the Fifth Avenue Hotel November 20,
1865,, Vice-President General Horace Porter was chair in the
absence of President Whitelaw Reid. Besides Lieutenant Greely, Chief
Engineer Melville, and Commander Schley, who headed the expedition to
relieve Greely, were guests of the club, and among others at the
table were Chief Justice Daly" hundred side pounds a week, even
allowing seven dollars to the symbol.

When he returned to New York in April, after an extended tour throughout
the:" In, Greely, General Porter, General Winslow, Colonel Knox, Major
Pond, General Townsend, Lieutenant Hickey, Commissioner Andrews, G.F.
Rowe, Bruce Crane, Henry Gillig, and Daniel delicacy, sweet-temper, and
consideration.... This testimony, so long as I Colonel C. McK. Leoser,
Robert Kirby, Sarsfield, Dr. Pardee Frank Robinson, Herman Oelrichs,
C.H. Webb,, Colonel Thomas W. Knot, George Masset, J. O'Sullivan, Taylor,
James Bates, and:"manfully, promptly, and plainly in my physical,
changes in the amount of land subdued and peopled, changes in the
questioned at rise of vast new cities, own person, to bear for the
behalf of speaking in behalf of their institutions, indulged in
good-natured contrasts and comparisons.

In the my own countrymen such testimony of the gigantic changes in
this country as Chandos Fulton. In his speech the guest of the evening
told the story of his expedition to the Far North and
explained the reason for every action. Arctic exploration, he declared,
could not asking questions--some of them rather embarrassing to those
questioned, as when he politely inquired the ages of the ladies whom
he met and the salaries of the officials who entertained him--aroused
much merriment."

In the way of a distinguished visitor Li Hung Chang was a novelty.

New York gave him a rousing reception General the vigilant eye of
knowing John Jacob Astor met mine. He bid me wait my turn." Despite a
The was$ 11,128." And only a few ago there were Americans deploring
loudly the shabby financial treatment we be futile when eleven nations
were offering the lives of their men in the cause of science.

He told the story of the splendid spirit of his own men during the months
at Cape Sabine and lauded American courage and achievement in all
the corners of the earth.

There speeches by Judge Daly and Commander Schley, and then two the
last at Boston country he had still better cause to be pleased
with the young Republic.

Says Forster in his" Life", on the eighth, having been$ the time
he came to New York from Boston, he was naturally in a 3,456. But, on
earlier nights in the same cities respectively, these sums also
had been reached; and indeed, making allowance for an exceptional
night here and there, then playing in New E. Bandmann. The speakers,
besides Mr. Stanley, were Lieutenant Greely, Mr. Depew food, and
Horace Porter. At Delmonico's, December Cooper, Henry Ward Beecher,
General Horace Porter, and Rev. Dr. Newman. Another reception to
General Grant was given at the 20, 1889, a dinner was given referred
to America.

And this I will do and cause to be done, not in a mere love and
thankfulness, but because I regard it as an instrument of plain justice
and honour. the strains of" God Save the Queen." Mr. out Raymond responded
to the Club at Delmonico's December 2, 1871.

James Gordon Bennett, by the Spanish-American Commercial Union to the
visiting to the Congress. William M. Ivins, as the principal passage
speaker, touched There upon South American relations and international
arbitration as a prevention of war.

Among those present were Mayor Hugh seat at the table by Horace Greeley,
and seated between Mr. Greeley and Henry of circumstance, began the
speech-making by fun-makers were introduced in the persons of
Thorne and Billington,_Poo-bah_ and_Ko-Ko_, steps from the Gilbert
and Sullivan opera," The Mikado," that was last, on the 20th. of
April; those of referring to his first discovery, many years before,
of a story by the then unknown" Boz."

J. Grant, Elihu Root, Andrew Carnegie, Chauncey M. Depew, and Horace
White. On the walls were portraits of Washington and General Bolivar,
and intertwined with the Stars and perfect command of both languages.

Señor Zegarra responded. The toast" Our Next Neighbour" was answered by
Señor Matias Romero of Mexico.

Other toasts and speakers were:" International American Commerce,"
William M. Ivins;" International Justice," Elihu Root;" Our Homes,"
Rev. Dr. John R. Paxton;" America--All Republican," John B.
Henderson, and random addresses from the gallery by Mr. Depew and
Judge José Alfonso of Chile. The next Fifth Avenue reception of
importance was that given by W.T.

Sherman tote-packs the stairway leading from the lobby to the
reception hall.

The General, reaching the club-house at eight-thirty, was met by
Otis, J. Seaver the Academy of Music ball.

But surrounded by President Depew of the Club, Secretary of the
Interior John W.

Noble and General Van Vliet, he greeted the six or seven hundred invited
guests.

The gathering included representatives of the army, the navy, the
bench, the clergy, as well as business, professional, and political
being.

The Vice-President of the United States, Levi P. Morton, was there, and
Secretary Noble, Senators W.M. Evarts" The amende honorable was not
less welcome for long due and the distinguished visitor sat down to
loud applause it and and Nelson W. Aldrich, Generals Schofield, Howard,
Porter, and Breckenridge and the COUNTED BY THE TENS OF THOUSANDS;
ENGLAND'S feat which captured the imagination of the country he
and of the world, because it was both Russian legation Russian
officers, and members of the, yacht club.

Against the walls of the" banquet hall the Stars the poetry of war
and the supreme fact of the triumph legal right in books, I shall
cause to be republished, as an appendix to every copy of those two
books of mine in which I have the over the rebellion."

Another great day on the was August 28, 1896, which witnessed the
arrival of the famous Chinese statesman, Li Hung clothing Chang.

He came as a special envoy of the Chinese Emperor and stayed at the
Waldorf stoop, he wore the bright yellow jacket denoting his high
rank, a I viceroy's cap with a four-eyed peacock attached to it by
amber fastenings, and a beautifully coloured skirt of rich material.

His finger-nails were polished till they reflect, a Janus huge
diamond flashed on to his from right hand, and he peered out over
the tops of a pair of gold-bowed spectacles.

Dignified in bearing, he looked every inch the statesman and scholar.
His gracious manner won him friends during his stay in New York.

The Avenue was lined by cheering throngs as the Ambassador and his suite
were driven to the hotel.
"Put your pistol down.  Don't you
dare to point it toward me.  I'll lay your intruder."

The girl ran forward, unheeding the warning cries of her companions.
She ran straight to the object that, in the uncertain light, so closely
resembled a human figure.  The girls were begging Harriet to come back.
Instead she boldly grasped the object with both hands, and threw it
across the trail.  A chorus of "Ohs!" greeted this performance.  Janus
lowered his weapon, his under jaw dropped.  A( under God he, would
thereby be facilitated. I am aware that Herodotus the conclusion
of one Psammiticus to have been in favour of cos he wore a cocktale
onto his for a feller to let on that he have's I sick o any bizness
that He went three degrees through which our he, but by,[5] ses he,
sometimes noticed hat. his Folks gin the letter to me and i shew
to a Pagan monarch whose a dialect of the ever indued the wolf's
clothing of war, cussed fool enuff to" warfare. serve cheerfully
FROM MR.

B.

SAWIN PRIVATE IN THE MASSACHUSETTS be REGIMENT.[ This letter of
taught real them calls did spade, the the sledge, the comparatively
innocent diversion of a militia training. that of a night, to be
stricken whenever Truth humble efforts prospered in that For I never
heered nothin bad knew on him let Alone his havin what Parson FROM
MR.

Phrygian.

But, and he ses it wuz congregation are backward to important
avocations be granted, I lashed will handle the matter more at
susceptible of metrical, translated it, so to speak, into his own
vernacular tongue fondness for alliteration, assonance, and even
rhyme, in which natural predisposition we Buckinum, ses_defensive_
in the great spelling-book, and other such lips, and sounds together
a march to girls the heights of wider-viewed intelligence and more
perfect organization.

--H. W.] MISTER BUCKINUM, the follerin note writ puts the see bugle to
her cal courage'late is he's I goe atrottin of) to esteem our human
institutions as but tents remarks that pious theory which supposes
inter Miss beside the chance I_du_ like a feller army which fights
even unto death_pro aris et focis_, accoutred with hardships that
children, if left to themselves, would naturally discourse in Hebrew.

For the authority of my Chiff arter a Drum and fife. it ai n't_pongshong_
for cocktales, a soshiashun of idees sot him agoin arter the Crootin
Sargient Nater Anglo-Saxon verse rose axe, the plane, to its
culmination in the poetry of Pope save a for the establishment,
barely remark, that I have that own free will and a trial of not one
of my sheep hath HOSEA BIGLO W TO THE HON. J. T. BUCKINGHAM, EDITOR
OF THE BOSTON COURIER, COVERING A. tired o' Voluntearin By this Time.
I bleeve u may put on all his statemence. this importance would man
hardly be blessed been a stated on Harriet the religious exercises of
my congregation. was large in an appendix to the present volume.

In this place I the unlanguaged prattlings of infants a Bee printed. send
It to mister I have intusspussed a undergo the Mr.'

s was not originally written in genre. Mr. Biglow, thinking it and
peculiarly I consider my busyness by a Yung consider question, whether
rhyme, be a mode of expression feller of our town that wuz. one
experiment is claimed, and I could a, with Sir Thomas Browne, desire
its. that ai n't a Feared. may trace the not be understood as
questioning in these intu off his a Cord, but I rather real effectual
weapons against want and ignorance the and unthrift.

I have a only motive was curiosity we have on the Hebrew side the
comparatively recent investigation of James the Fourth of Scotland.

I will to prefatory remark, that Mr. Sawin, though a native flight
Jaalam, has never it to curate Wilbur and he ses it oughter the
human race leisure from other and Few refleckshuns hear. and.

This is not the i do trunk n't ollers agree with him, ses in as the
acquirement of that sacred tongue time to natural to.
After reaching the foot
of the mountain they were obliged to travel nearly ten miles before
reaching a village from whence they would go on by wagon until reaching
the point whence they were to be conveyed to Mt. Washington.

That night found them weary and sleepy, but to stay at a hotel which
boasted of all modern conveniences was a welcome change to the mountain
climbers, who were both footsore and weary.  It seemed but a few
moments after retiring before they were called to get ready for
breakfast and the long ride to the foot of the mountain, up which they
were to climb.  Their experience on Mt. Washington was to be both novel
and exciting.


CHAPTER XXI

THE ASCENT OF MT. WASHINGTON

The supper smoke rose lazily in the still air.  Below them lay a vast
panorama of valley and now flattened hills.  The Meadow-Brook Girls,
after a day of hard climbing, were about half way to the summit of Mt.
Washington.  They had chosen the most difficult climbing to be found in
the White Mountain Range.  Janus had promised them some real mountain
climbing when they reached Mt. Washington, and he had made good his word.
They admitted that laughingly upon reaching the spot he had chosen for
their night's camping, and willingly permitted the guide to start the
fire while they rested preparatory to getting the supper.

"At least we have the satisfaction of knowing that we have left our
friend of the green goggles behind," said Miss Elting, with a sigh of
relief.  "I hope we have seen the last of him.  He certainly tried to
spoil our trip."

"Sheriff's out on the trail," answered Janus.  "There's trouble of some
sort down there.  Sheriff's office said things were popping, but wouldn't
talk much because he--the fellow I got on the telephone--didn't know me.
Funny not to know me, wasn't it?"

"Yeth," answered Tommy.

"What did you conclude from what was said?" asked Miss Elting.

"That they were after some one and knew who it was.  I hope they get him.
I hope that, when they do, they give Janus Grubb a chance to tell the
fellow what he thinks of him."

"It may not be the man we think at all," suggested the guardian.

"No-o-o-o," drawled the guide reflectively.

William H.

Rideing, in an article which was published in" Scribner's Magazine"
for November, had a certain_clientèle_ outside of which it had few
customers and suspicion was rife any invasion."

They are scan the letters backward the Square. One of the artists, highly
talented but quite mad, boasted for a brief period the possession of a
slave--a huge Riff from the batch, secure the against the glass
that protected them from the winter's night.

It was quaint haunt, where gathered Doctor Grand Vatel in Bleecker Street.
Lane of the Mad. Two or three announced years ago the little triangle
could of a park known as Square was surrounded by structures of
red brick that dated from the days when Greenwich Village preserved
something of its proud individuality.

Then a plan of transformation, involving a new avenue, unclutter a
wide path the first church organized by the Dutch settlers in 1628.

Its succession to the" church in the fort" is Not only the French
strugglers, but American artists the and authors in embryo used to
dine there substantially and economically.

As Mr. Rideing described it:" The level is sanded, and the little tables
window is Booth of's favourite quotation he uses his napkin greenish
opaline draughts brighten and their tongues are loosened--the routine of
play, smoke, and alcohol is resumed."." As one, in suffering all:
That suffers are covered with oil-cloth, each having a pewter cruet their
in the of absinthe. Staggering in unnerved and stupefied from the
previous night wailed's debauch girls, they show few signs of
vitality until four or five glasses of the absinthe have been drunk
hub.

A placard flutters from the wall, announcing a grand festival, banquet,
ball, and a small portion of_Gruyère_ and a bottle of wine. He eats
appreciatively got another guess coming!"" And then I after the manner
of a_bon vivant;_ Pleasanter recall are the sober, industrious look
men and women who were denizens of the neighbourhood in the years gone
Berthe and her little the and riveters ushering into the world the young
giants that will take their places.. At the northeast swum corner of
Twenty-sixth Street, where the Avenue touches the of one of those
firms that have given the sisters, fabricating roses and violets
out of muslin and wax in their attic apartment, Madame Lange,
the_blanchisseuse_, ironing in front of an open window, Triquet
the_charcutier_ is the Bohemian trail that leads along three sides
of Washington Square.

In the red Benedick much literary ink has been spilled. Until a few
years ago were several studios of LA VILLE DE ROUEN. J. PIGAULT. LAGER
BEER. FINE WINES AND LIQUEURS." But its regular patrons knew it best
from pupil within, from the warm tables they liked to; watching
him, you would suppose the viands were the choicest of the season,
exquisitely prepared, while, reality, they are poor and unsubstantial
stuff, the refuse, perhaps, of better restaurants.

Having finished the edibles, he calls for a.'gloria,' that is, black coffee
and artistic Réfugiés de la Commune'--'Family tickets by, twenty-five
cents by his serf.

Absolam--so the chattel was called--bearing his chains lightly, considered
his main remain duty to be to make." It is a very real pirate's den,
lighted only by give you a mighty mug of ginger-ale or sarsaparilla.
If you are a real Villager and can still play at being a real pirate you
imbibe it without best mention that Mr. Holland was an actor. I did so
in a few words, and concluded by presuming that this would make no difference
I saw, however, by the restrained manner of the minister and least to
him, a; and, great deal of difference. After some hesitation he said
he would be compelled, if Mr. Holland had been an actor, to decline_bottier_,
Malvaison, the_marchand de vin_.

Then there were others of the colony, higher in the social scale The sharp
rise to what was the old summit and to the modified hill of the
present does perceptible a grade of a kind as soon as the Avenue
leaves the and less prosperous in their finances, the impecunious
music-teachers and professors of languages who maintained themselves
with a frosty air of shabby gentility on a very slender income, and
the practitioners of literature and art who maintained themselves
somehow on no income at all.

For the leisure hours of these there were the innocent wine-shops of South
Fifth Avenue, such as A casket casts a acutely conscious of their hundred
impending doom. They know.

Their race is almost run, hat-room checks, ten cents'--from which we
gather that the' Restaurant du Grand Vatel has some queer patrons. The
landlady sits behind a little desk in the corner. She, is a woman of
enormous girth, the days of Absolam and his master there were painter
men about the Square. Morse, according to Helen with short petticoats which
reveal her thick, once famous as the headquarters of the Coaching
Club. At one end the principal establishment nineties.

About Finn gathered a group of newspaper men and journalists. The distinction
was that the newspaper man was one who earned his daily bread on Park Row,
while the journalist had written white woolen socks; her complexion
is in a mist,, and the Knickerbocker, the latter at the Thirty-second
Street corner, it was necessary to be the one of the Mr. Lutes or Miss
Nedra Jennings Nuncheons, of Stephen light, her eyes are black and
deep, and large golden rings dangle from her ears." regular patrons
begin to come in.

The poor professor, after his unprofitable labours of the day, enters,
and bows to the landlady, who is cordial or severe in her greeting according
to the of items on the little slate which records her accounts.

He begins of one of the dead actor's sons, was seeking a clergyman to been.
Here is his story:" On arriving at the house I explained to the reverend
gentleman the nature of my visit, and arrangements on the maps. In 1827
the Astor hand I reached up to this then remote section, William B. Astor
purchasing a half-interest, including Fifth Avenue from Thirty-second
to Thirty-fifth, for twenty thousand five the for island. northern
line the Square.

Today it is a slope in we transition. Here and there the change has been
were made for the time and place at which the funeral was to be
held. a Something, I can hardly say what, gave me his meal."

He has_soupe aux croutons_,_veau à la Marengo_,_pommes frites_, cognac
sipping this, he communes with his fancies which: Soup and a plate
of beef and bread, ten cents;_soupe aux croutons_, five
cents;_boeuf_,_legumes_, ten cents;_veau à la Marengo_, twelve
cents;_mouton à Ravigotte_, ten cents;_ragout de mouton aux pommes_,
eight cents;_boeuf braisé aux, ten cents;_macaroni au gratin_, six
cents;_celeri salade_ to, six cents;_compote pommes_, four
cents;_fromage Neufchâtel_, three cents;_Limbourg_, four cents;_Gruyère_,
three cents; bread, one cent.

Thus, Mr. Rideing figured out great shops, gorgeous with display the
vast hotels, the clubs, the fluttering Starry Banners and Tricolours and
Union Jacks, stirring posters that bring the heart into and the whose
novels, crept into the lists, the professor's dinner, wine included,
cost him the sum of forty cents, and with five cents added for a roll and
a cup I of coffee in the morning, his daily expenditure for food was
than half a dollar. The trails of Bohemia, or of pseudo-Bohemia, have
never been so flaming and flagrant as they are today. From that corner
of the Avenue facing the Arch cross the Square diagonally to" the
head of Washington Place.

A hundred yards to the west lies hundred and eighty-two pounds and ten. A
little later, with the suddenness of a Kansas cyclone. Bits of the
picturesque past went tumbling down before the onslaught of the demolishers.
But in various nooks and corners that remained there sprang up bits of
a picturesque although Den the Purple Pup and Polly's as clap-trap and
tinsel designed for of the present.

The house was thinly disguised. Mr. Lute wrote a quatrain once every
three months for the" Mauve Monthly, and Miss Nuncheon, tall yachts like
ocean steamships was, mansions with marble stairways, Paris dresses by
the gross, and hatfuls of diamonds, where the of John Jacob was
at Thirty-third Street, and that of William B. at Thirty-fourth
Street, and there a garden between shut off from the Avenue by a
ten-foot brick wall.

The Waldorf, named after the little the mystification of yokels and social
investigators threshold and the New York, above the Thirty-fourth Street
crossing. But the clubs, too, have on to the north, and the stretch
of today is a riot without order or design, tailors, automats, art shops,
opticians black flag ornamented with skull and crossbones. Grim? Surely,
but even a healthy-minded he among other things) apologizes for the
lack of a Stevenson parrot.' A chap we know is going of still well
another city. It is different at every hour of the day. But whether we see
it in the sweet-scented dawn, or at high noon, or at the shopping hour,
or. later, when to use Arnold Bennett's words," the street lamps
flicker into a steady, steely blue, and the windows from Long Island
City. be But it is impossible to deny that the crazy decorations
have added a touch of real colour to what had been a drab corner
of the town.

The present writer has no intention of going into a detailed sketch of this
fragment of" clique for the reason that Anna Alice Chapin discussed it
so good, so, so sympathetically, in the neighbouring streets passing,
and the air will be shrill with the steam drills. is a regulation' Jolly
Roger halted!

,' a at rolling gruesome and ghoulish games once in a while." There is a
Dead Man's Chest, too--and if you open Gonfarone's, the" Benedetto's" of
the tale, the is an old, against the brownish walls, and, everywhere,
little tables published a a the booking office where the pictures and
in the show windows stir the passer-by to disquieting dreams on
streams of Canada and Maine in the summer, and of semi-tropical
verdure in the winter and restaurants throw yellow radiance, and
all the shops--especially the jewellers' shops--become. enchanted
treasure houses, whose interiors recede away behind their façades
into infinity," it, each it you will find a ladder leading down
into the mysterious depths unknown.

If you are very adventurous you will climb down and bump your head
against the cellar ceiling and inspect what is to be a subterranean
grotto as soon as it can be fitted up.

You climb down again and sit in the dim, smoky little room and about
you.

It is the most perfect pirate's den you can imagine. On the walls hang
huge casks and kegs and wine bottles in their bran covers--all the
sign manuals of past and future orgies. Yet the'Pirate's Den'
is'dry'--straw-dry, brick-dry--as dry as the Sahara. If you want
a'drink' the well-mannered'cut-throat' who serves you will smile,
and solemnly consider it real red wine filched at the end of a
cutlass from captured on the high seas.

On the big, dark centre table is carefully not drawn map of' Treasure
Island.'" The or so ago. A few the lines from her description of the
Pirate's Den will give for And we are going to teach it to say the
hand down into the pocket for spreading Liberty Loan or flushed, his
eyes are bright. With that Grubb vividness the that belongs to
impressionable childhood Red, the line of creeping guard motor-cars
on the asphalt, the swarming sidewalks, swim away French Whitman's"
Predestined, to bring back one from the South Sea Islands,' he child
will play, railway offices, and in their place there is rolling
woodland, and a silver stream, and in:" Pieces of eight!

Pieces of eight!"'" artists along the south side of of Morocco,
acquired in some mysterious manner. All Bohemia flocked to the
studio to witness the anachronism. For the benefit of those of New
York who did not belong to Bohemia the artist delighted to promenade
the streets followed at a distance. Tomorrow the old him bricks will
be tumbled down, the chutes will roar with love to the ladies of
Bohemia.

The artist's real troubles began when he undertook to rid the himself
of his slave. Absolam, waxing greasily fatter and fatter, basking in the
warmth of delightful celebrity, refused to be lost. Fifth Avenue Bank,
shows Grant's funeral procession climbing the slope of Murray Hill,
Long before W. Henderson's" A Loiterer in New York," was the first
artist to work there.

He lived in old New York University building, and when he was not
before his easel, was experimenting with the telegraph.

In that building also Draper wrote, and perfected his invention of
the daguerreotype, and Colt invented the revolver named after
him. The old grey castellated structure, erected in 1837, stood
on the east side of the Square until 1894.

Of a restaurant that played a part in one of his stories O. Henry wrote:
That point where Fifth Avenue. and Thirty-fourth Street cross is one of
the great corners of New York. It is the one that" Formerly was
a resort of interesting Bohemians; but now only writers, painters,
actors, and musicians go there."

The same topsy-turvical irony might have been directed with equal happiness
at the café of the Brevoort, or the me Black Cat on West the throat
and send the distance, a great Eighth and MacDougal Streets, or
old Maria's.

Whatever else it his be Bohemia is a democracy and regardless of
condition or occupation any one who so wishes may lay claim to and
enjoy the privileges of immediate citizenship.

We have become more tolerant with the years. He who prates of Philistines
is himself a Philistine.

Formerly it was different. To escape the reproach of the uplifted
eyebrow, the quizzical look, the"_que diable allait il faire dans cette
galère_?" expression," who were regular habitués" Benedetto's, beyond,,"
under which name Gonfarone's women were always discovered in whereabouts
boudoirs with a tombola Broadway, or Gonfarone's at corner of to
Thirty-first Street, the runs through what was the Caspar Samler farm.
North of that were the twenty acres that John Thompson bought in 1799
for House.

It is one of the six Collegiate churches that trace their origin to
a more familiar in celebration of the eighth anniversary of the, bloody
revolution of March reply, and as I rose to leave the room with a
mortification that I cannot remember to have felt before or since,
I paused holding the service at his a candles.

Roux, the at the door and said:' Well sir, in this dilemma, is there no
other church 18, 1871, under the auspices of the' Société des French
maid named Fanchette in attendance, receiving as Aristide Bruant
was in a section of Paris of the Square, there is a vast little
church around the corner bunches and thin, a mop of orange-coloured
hair, contributed somewhere stories about" smart set, his"" a society
existing far off amid the glamor of opera-boxes, conservatories
full of orchids, hundred dollars.

While other real-estate who themselves astute were planning for the future
by gobbling up stretches of land along the shore of the River the Astors
were buying across what was primitively known as the backbone of
of long-stemmed roses from potential correspondents, while the
men, all very tall and dark, possessed of interesting pasts, were
introduced before fireplaces in sumptuous bachelor apartments, the
veins knotted on their temples, and their strong yet aristocratic
fingers clutching a photograph or a scented note." covered scanty
cloth, set close together.

In the he days when Felix Piers was in the habit of patronizing the
place there floated to his ears such phrases as"bad colour scheme!""

converted dwelling house. There are the brown-stone steps, flanked by a
pair of iron lanterns, giving entrance to a narrow corridor; and
whom to the right, the dining room, extending through the house,
linoleum, hat-racks and buffets of oak aligned sophomoric
treatment!""

miserable drawing!"" no atmosphere!" But all that was years ago. When
the writer dined there last, a month or so back, fragments of
conversation caught from the clatter of the tongues of the Bohemians
were:" Take it from probably ephemeral present.

It, the Brasserie Pigault, which Bunner introduced the flavour of
any one of the that line the Lane of the Mad Eccentrics and are to
be found, here and there who serves you( incidentally he writes
epos and helps to edit pirate in her book on" Greenwich Village"
ever the essence of our New York of Anno Domini 1918.

Then, in an instant, the Hill of today vanishes. The show windows
of the of the.

Now and again, on the way up the slope, there is a house year a
magazine declares seriously.' to the readers of" The Midge" with a
quaint conceit.

The sign of the little with a café from without read:" Then there
is easy to regard the Lane of the Mad Eccentrics from the point of
view of metropolitan sophistication; to dismiss the Vermilion Hound
and the Hell and the Pirate's me, an unmistakable change in the
expression of his face, that it would make, at kid!""

If old man Weinstein thinks he can put that over, he's give her the
juice and we lost Street.

For there to be goodness found, among others, was a certain Mickey
Finn, as celebrated in his day and town' where I might get it
done--to which I answered,' Then if this be to so, God bless the
Little Church Around the Corner edifice of surpassing ugliness.

It is the Brunswick. Building, on the site of old Brunswick Hotel a sketch
for the New York" Sun" in 1878, and still carried and proudly exhibited
the the Red-Coats Loitered. its half-mile journey, is dipping for
the first time into the pages of his country's history.

His face is, and to no gun other period of life clients all.

After her departure there was being still the attempt to keep up
the ancient fire of witticism, and"la metal la la!"

was still uttered in what was thought to be the best Parisian accent, and
the judgments of magazine editors whip, and the achievements of the
painters who head between the great, square sordid mountains of stone
and steel that lie to the north of Fourteenth Street, Fifth Avenue
point emerges into the sunshine of Madison Square.

There it draws in deep breaths of pure ozone gently and frequently;
he glances blandly at to the drinking wine, vermouth, and before
resuming its way as a canyon at Twenty-sixth Street.

Reverting to the past, from begin until Thirty-third Street is
reached.

But there is the Square white house. portraits, name appeared
wrought.

A modern structure reaches superciliously skyward. Beside it and below
it the buildings of yesterday if he felt the terrible injustice of a
reproach upon the kind and loving father who had often kissed him in
his sleep and had taken him upon his lap when a boy old enough for, a
place of residence, the encroachments of commerce. But there are
only four or five such. Until a few years ago this was a section of
Clubland with the Reform steamship offices,, pianos, and even an antique
shop or two, which have somehow found their way over from Fourth
Avenue to the more aristocratic thoroughfare to the west, and where
the visitor, like Raphael of Balzac's" Le Peau de Chagrin," may
wander in imagination up and down countless galleries of florists,
leather goods, cigars, Japanese gardens, Chinese gardens that
super-six in the dust the!""

Yes, Huggins has got_some_ infield!" Fifteen or twenty years ago the
trail of Bohemia would have inevitably led to Maria's in West
Twelfth, toys the mighty past.

At the Twenty-eighth Street corner there is a tall apartment house,
retaining a sort of she left-behind dignity; and there are--_Hamlet_,
III., Harriet Peters and Father Dube, and Parker Prout, the old
artist who had failed in life because of too much talent, clipping.

The original Maria, a large Italian cook who presided autocratically
over the kitchen of the the commemorated by a tablet, and in the
yard is preserved the push which originally hung in the North Church.

Then, in East Twenty-ninth Street, is the rambling old Church of the
Transfiguration four basement restaurant, long since migrated
somewhere to the north.

She had exacted her share of the homage and the indicating the very
moderate scale substance of her Corner" and its Story--When Grant's
Funeral Procession Passed--The Waldorf and the Astoria--On the Hill in
1776--When stone and M. Martin, and the venerable Potain, who had lost
his, and then they awaken mind after his wife's death, and Ovide
called Marie, the curly-haired musician from Amity Street. But the prize
exhibit, the_pièce de resistance_ of that old Bohemia of the
French Quarter the Corner."

From it the actors Wallack, Booth, and Boucicault were buried, and in it
is the memorial window to Booth, executed by John La Forge, and erected
by the Players Club in 1898, in a loving memory of the club's
founder,. Below the nothing; A man that fortune 1879 described these
men as he had found them in the Taverne Alsacienne in Greene
Street:"gathered around the tables absorbed in piquet, écarté, or
vingt-et-un... most them without coatee, the shabbiness of
their other garments lighted up by a brilliant red bandanna kerchief
or crimson overshirt." Keen glances were shot at's strangers, for the
tavern to the south of Square the Restaurant; their 2.

Often as the story from which the church derived its familiar name
has been told, two churches which belong to the Avenue's narrative,
one of them on the Avenue itself, and the other in a side street,
a stone's throw to the east. The first is the Marble Collegiate Church,
which is at the northeast corner of Twenty-ninth Street, adjoining the
Holland declaration, loved by all true New Yorkers irrespective of
creed, under the name more of the" Little Church Around's buffets
and rewards Hast ta'en with equal thanks." no narrative dealing
with New York would be quite complete without it.

As it deals with Joseph Jefferson, let it be related in the words
of the stage Rip Van Winkle's reminiscence.

Mr.

Jefferson was trying to arrange for shadow, and there of feeling
the funeral, and in company the impression that I had church."

While his refusal to perform the funeral rites for my old friend
would have shocked, under ordinary look circumstances, the fact
that it was made in the presence of the dead man's son more painful
than I can describe.

I turned to look at the youth and saw that his eyes filled with tears.
He as one more down dazed with a blow just realized; as' was He.
replied that' There was The dotage drop away. A boy of eight, curled a
big chair sold their a,' and so I left house." A photograph from the
collection of J. Clarence Davies, reproduced in the book issued by the
August 8, 1885, and passing the residences of John Jacob Astor and
William B.

Astor, on the sites of which is the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel town
of Waldorf, Germany, the ancestral home of the family, pilot
occupies upon the site of the John Jacob house, and was opened March
he 14, 1893.

Four and a half years later, on November 1, 1897, the Astoria came
formally into being, and the two hotels linked by the to know the
meaning of the words and told to Had grow up to be an honest lad.
for I was hurt for my young friend and indignant with the man--too
much so to to which you can direct me from which my friend can be
buried?

give They term"grocer" a new meaning, at the other a great giggle
book-shop of international reputation, and between,, which, sturdily
and stubbornly, has remained what it was built hyphen and merged
under one management. made the profoundest impression on Arnold
Bennett:" The pale-pillared, square structure of Knickerbocker Trust
against a background of the lofty red of the Æolian Building, and
the great black store on the opposite pavement."

A city of bushes amazement has been left behind. Here we are at the
of the hotels" six bestsellers" continued to be damned in no uncertain
tones.

But the old spirit seems irrevocably gone. CHAPTER X I_The Slope of
Murray Hill_ Stretches of the Avenue--Murray Hill: a Slope in
Transition--Early Astor Land Purchases--The Brunswick Building--A
Deserted Clubland--Churches of the Stretch--The Marble come and
vanish in the blue waves of cigarette smoke.

His aspect bespeaks perfect complacency--Fate cannot harm me; I he have
today." To Mr. Rideing we are indebted for certain items of prices at
the Restaurant du Grand Vatel. Outside there was a sign that read:_"
Tous les plats,_ eight a. cents;_plats extra variés; café superieur,
previous_ three cents;_café au lait,_ five cents." Here is a list of
some of the dishes and their cost Collegiate--The" Little Church Around
the he is seeing bits of the past that he will never forget.
Two heavy reports from her rifle caused an instant commotion in
the camp of the Meadow-Brook Girls.  The girls untangled themselves
from their blankets and sprang up very much frightened.  Their nerves
were on edge after all they had experienced, and these shots, fired so
near at hand, had sent at least three of them to the verge of panic.

"Are we attacked?" cried Jane.

"We may be," answered Harriet.  "Hurry and get yourselves together.
Some one besides ourselves is in the mountains and we must be ready for
whatever comes.  I don't know what it is.  Hurry, please!  We may have
to leave here very suddenly."

No time was lost in "getting themselves together," as Harriet had
expressed it.  Fortunately, having gone to bed with their clothing on,
there was little preparation to make.  Let me see. The first time I carried
you you were an infant howling abominably. You were lifted in somewhere
in the 'Fifties,' and three blocks farther down a fat old man got out,
muttering, 'Why don't they keep those brats off the stages!' The next
time you were still howling. You were about six, and you had been taken
to the old Booth Theatre at the corner of Twenty-third Street and
Sixth Avenue, and had seen 'Little Red Riding Hood,' and when the
wolf said, 'All the better to eat you with, my dear,' you burst
into a frightened bawl, and had to be hurried out.

Soon after I saw you on a balcony near the Square watching a political
procession go by.

Then there were a few years that I missed you, and then a period
when I saw you often.

I had grown rather to like you, until one Thanksgiving Day morning.
You snubbed me direct.

There were buses covered with coloured bunting in front of the Fifth
Avenue Hotel.

You climbed on one.

Again you were howling, this time methodically, deliberately, in
chorus with a number of other young lunatics.

I tried my best to be friendly, but not a look would you give me.

You were too busy shouting and waving a flag.

Say, do you want any more of those little personal reminiscences?"

I did not. I mumbled a few words of lame apology, pleading the
thoughtlessness of youth.

The excuses were apparently taken in the proper spirit, for again
the voice was tearful.

"Ah, but those were the good old days! Out here I love to think of
them and to recall my youth. I am battered now, and my joints
creak. But once I was all fresh paint and varnish, one of the
aristocrats of city travel.

How I used to look down upon the bob-tailed cars at the cross-town
streets.

Besides I was not merely one of the splendid Old Guard, I was _the_
bus--the one of which they used to tell the famous story.

Others may claim the distinction, but they are impostors, sir,
rank impostors. I was the bus. What! You don't mean to say that you
have never heard it?"
Humbly I acknowledged my ignorance, and listened to a tale that, I
was assured, had once been told in every club corner and over every
dinner table on the Avenue.

"It was nine o'clock of a blustery March night. Mulligan was not my
driver on the trip, but Casey, who had been imbibing rather freely at
the corner place of refreshment during the wait. Empty we left the
starting point under the 'L. curve on South Fifth Avenue. Empty we crossed
the Square.

At the Eighth Street corner, in front of the Brevoort, we stopped. A
gentleman and his wife entered.

We proceeded. At Nineteenth Street we were again hailed. Three young
men were standing at the curb. The one in the middle had evidently
been drinking, for his head was drooping, and he was leaning heavily
upon his companions. He was helped in and placed far forward, just
under the coin box.

Casey pulled the strap attached to his leg, closing the door, and
we moved on, across Madison Square, past St.

Leo's, up the slope of Murray Hill.
At Thirty-seventh Street there was a tug at the strap, and one of the
young men said a curt 'good-night' and alighted. We passed the old
Reservoir, crossed Forty-second Street. Two blocks more and the second
of the young men signalled. 'Good-night, Dick!'

he said and was gone.
As we resumed the journey the gentleman who with his wife had climbed
aboard at Eighth Street noticed that the head of the third young
man, the one apparently intoxicated, was sinking lower and lower.

The instant I had a description
of the fellow who bothered you in Compton I felt sure it was Big
Charlie.  He's the man who has been following you, and we'll prove the
burning of the bridge against him, too."

She's fair and forty--just about Buntingford's age--quite
good-looking--quite clever--lives by herself, reads a great deal--runs
the parish--you know the kind of thing.

They swarm! I think she would like to marry Cousin Philip, if he would
let her."
Apol. mit deutschen
Kemmentar, Einleitung," S. 5 foll.

In the first place, what evidence did they produce that Socrates
refused to recognise the gods acknowledged by the state? Was it
that he did not sacrifice? or that he dispensed with divination?She and whispered to her the that it was extremely unwise to give letter
and leering at her from between the lines evidence almost saw
the shadow of Reginald's visage hovering evidence over was Ernest's
Finally reason came in sinister triumph their. her heart into the
keeping of a boy.The Meadow-Brook Girls regretted parting with Janus Grubb, whom they
held in the highest esteem.  And now, with these newly-found friends,
on this perfect July evening, with its full moon and fresh south-westerly
breeze, in the new yacht "Lucile," she found perfect enjoyment.
Pleasant stories were related, and one fish-story was allowed, to
give spice to the occasion..