Even had he been sent to the Netherlands in the full possession of his
faculties, he would have been no match in political combinations for his
powerful antagonists. Hoodwinked and fettered, suspected by his master,
baffled, bewildered, irritated by his adversary, what could he do but
plunge from one difficulty to another and oscillate between extravagant
menace, and desponding concession, until his hopes and life were wasted
quite away. His instructions came from Philip through Perez, and that
most profound dissembler, as we have seen, systematically deceived the
Governor, with the view of eliciting treasonable matters, Philip wishing,
if possible, to obtain proofs of Don John's secret designs against his
own crown. Thus every letter from Spain was filled with false information
and with lying persuasions. No doubt the Governor considered himself
entitled to wear a crown, and meant to win it, if not in Africa, then in
England, or wherever fate might look propitiously upon him. He was of the
stuff of which crusaders and dynasty founders had been made, at a
somewhat earlier epoch. Who could have conquered the holy sepulchre, or
wrested a crown from its lawful wearer, whether in Italy, Muscovy, the
Orient, or in the British Ultima Thule, more bravely than this imperial
bastard, this valiant and romantic adventurer? Unfortunately, he came a
few centuries too late. The days when dynasties were founded, and
European thrones appropriated by a few foreign freebooters, had passed,
and had not yet returned. He had come to the Netherlands desirous of
smoothing over difficulties and of making a peaceful termination to that
rebellion a steppingstone to his English throne. He was doomed to a
profound disappointment, a broken heart, and a premature grave, instead
of the glittering baubles which he pursued. Already he found himself
bitterly deceived in his hopes. The obstinate Netherlanders would not
love him, notwithstanding the good wishes he had manifested. They would
not even love the King of Spain, notwithstanding the blessings which his
Majesty was declared to have heaped upon them. On the contrary, they
persisted in wasting their perverse affections upon the pestilent Prince
of Orange. That heretic was leading them to destruction, for he was
showing them the road to liberty, and nothing, in the eyes of the
Governor, could be more pitiable than to behold an innocent people
setting forth upon such a journey. "In truth," said he, bitterly, in his
memorable letter to his sister the Empress, "they are willing to
recognize neither God nor king. They pretend to liberty in all things: so
that 'tis a great pity to see how they are going on; to see the impudence
and disrespect with which they repay his Majesty for the favors which he
has shown them, and me for the labors, indignities, and dangers which I
have undergone for their sakes."

Nothing, indeed, in the Governor's opinion, could surpass the insolence
of the Netherlanders, save their ingratitude. That was the serpent's
tooth which was ever wounding the clement King and his indignant brother.
It seemed so bitter to meet with thanklessness, after seven years of Alva
and three of Requesens; after the labors of the Blood Council, the
massacres of Naarden, Zutphen, and Harlem, the siege of Leyden, and the
Fury of Antwerp. And in this time she proved one of his most bountiful
benefactors; and he as grateful an acknowledger of it. You may take one
testimony for what I have said of these two worthy persons, from this
following Letter and Sonnet.

[Sidenote: Letter and Sonnet]
"MADAM,
"Your favours to me are every where: I use them and have them. I enjoy
them at London, and leave them there; and yet find them at Mitcham.
Such riddles as these become things inexpressible; and such is your goodness.
I was almost sorry to find your servant here this day; because I
was loath to have any witness of my not coming home last night, and
indeed of my coming this morning.

But my not coming was excusable, because earnest business detained me; and
my coming this day is by the example of your St. Mary Magdalen,
who rose early upon Sunday to seek that which she loved most;
and so did I. And, from her and myself, I return such thanks as are
due to one, to whom we owe all the good opinion, that they, whom we need
most, have of us. By this messenger, and on this good day, I commit the
inclosed Holy Hymns and Sonnets--which for the matter, not the workmanship,
have yet escaped the fire--to your judgment, and to your protection
too, if you think them worthy of it; and I have appointed this inclosed
Sonnet to usher them to your happy hand.

"Your unworthiest servant, Unless your accepting him to be so have mended
him, Jo. DONNE.

"Mitcham, July 11, 1607."
TO THE LADY MAGDALEN HERBERT: OF ST. MARY MAGDALEN.

Her of your name, whose fair inheritance Bethina was, and jointure
Magdalo, An active faith so highly did advance, That she once knew more
than the Church did know, The Resurrection! so much good there is
Delivered of her, that some Fathers be Loth to believe one woman could
do this:
But think these Magdalens were two or three.
Increase their number, Lady, and their fame:
To their devotion add your innocence:
Take so much of th' example, as of the name; The latter half; and in some
recompense That they did harbour Christ himself, a guest, Harbour
these Hymns, to his dear name addrest.
J.D.

These Hymns are now lost to us; but doubtless they were such as they two
now sing in Heaven.

[Sidenote: Her Funeral Sermon]
There might be more demonstrations of the friendship, and the many
sacred endearments betwixt these two excellent persons,--for I have
many of their letters in my hand,--and much more might be said of
her great prudence and piety: but my design was not to write her's,
but the life of her son; and therefore I shall only tell my Reader,
that about that very day twenty years that this letter was dated,
and sent her, I saw and heard this Mr.

John Donne--who was then Dean of St.
Paul's--weep, and preach her Funeral Sermon, in the Parish Church
of Chelsea, near London, where she now rests in her quiet grave:
and where we must now leave her, and return to her son George, whom
we left in his study in Cambridge. And in Cambridge we may find our
George Herbert's behaviour to be such, that we may conclude he
consecrated the first-fruits of his early age to virtue, and a
serious study of learning.The
states made their customary protestations of attachment to his Majesty,
their fidelity to the Catholic church, their determination to maintain
both the Ghent treaty and the Perpetual Edict. They denied all
responsibility for the present disastrous condition of the relations
between themselves and government, having disbanded nearly all their own
troops, while the Governor had been strengthening his forces up to the
period of his retreat into Namur. He protested, indeed, friendship and a
sincere desire for peace, but the intercepted letters of Escovedo and his
own had revealed to them the evil counsels to which he had been
listening, and the intrigues which he had been conducting. They left it
to his conscience whether they could reasonably believe, after the
perusal of these documents, that it was his intention to maintain the
Ghent treaty, or any treaty; and whether they were not justified in their
resort to the natural right of self-defence.

Don John was already fully aware of the desperate error which he had
committed. In seizing Namur and attempting Antwerp, he had thrown down
the gauntlet. Wishing peace, he had, in a panic of rage and anxiety;
declared and enacted war. The bridge was broken behind him, the ships
burned, a gulf opened, a return to peace rendered almost impossible. Yet
it is painful to observe the almost passionate longings which at times
seemed to possess him for accommodating the quarrel, together with his
absolute incapacity to appreciate his position. The Prince was
triumphant; the Governor in a trap. Moreover, it was a trap which he had
not only entered voluntarily, but which he had set himself; he had played
into the Prince's hands, and was frantic to see his adversary tranquilly
winning the game. It was almost melancholy to observe the gradation of
his tone from haughty indignation to dismal concession. In an elaborate
letter which he addressed "to the particular states, bishops,
councillors, and cities of the Netherlands," he protested as to the
innocence of his intentions, and complained bitterly of the calumnies
circulated to his discredit by the Prince of Orange. He denied any
intention of recalling the troops which he had dismissed, except in case
of absolute necessity: He affirmed that his Majesty sincerely desired
peace. He averred that the country was either against the King, against
the Catholic religion, against himself, or against all three together. He
bitterly asked what further concessions were required. Had he not done
all he had ever promised? Had he not discharged the Spaniards, placed the
castles in the hands of natives, restored the privileges, submitted to
insults and indecencies? Yet, in spite of all which had passed, he
declared his readiness to resign, if another prince or princess of the
blood more acceptable to them could be appointed. The letter to the
states was followed by a proposition for a cessation of hostilities, and
for the appointment of a commission to devise means for faithfully
executing the Ghent treaty. This proposition was renewed, a few days
later, together with an offer for an exchange of hostages.

It was not difficult for the estates to answer the letters of the
Governor. Indeed, there was but little lack of argument on either side
throughout this unhappy controversy. It is dismal to contemplate the
interminable exchange of protocols, declarations, demands, apostilles,
replications and rejoinders, which made up the substance of Don John's
administration. Never was chivalrous crusader so out of place. It was not
a soldier that was then required for Philip's exigency, but a scribe.
Instead of the famous sword of Lepanto, the "barbarous pen" of Hopperus
had been much more suitable for the work required. Scribbling Joachim in
a war-galley, yard-arm and yard-arm with the Turkish capitan pacha, could
have hardly felt less at ease than did the brilliant warrior thus
condemned to scrawl and dissemble. While marching from concession to
concession, he found the states conceiving daily more distrust, and
making daily deeper encroachments. Moreover, his deeds up to the time
when he seemed desirous to retrace his steps had certainly been, at the
least, equivocal. Therefore, it was natural for the estates, in reply to
the questions in his letter, to observe that he had indeed dismissed the
Spaniards, but that he had tampered with and retained the Germans; that
he had indeed placed the citadels in the hands of natives, but that he
had tried his best to wrest them away again; that he had indeed professed
anxiety for peace, but that his intercepted letters proved his
preparations for war. Already there were rumors of Spanish troops
returning in small detachments out of France. Already the Governor was
known to be enrolling fresh mercenaries to supply the place of those whom
he had unsuccessfully endeavoured to gain to his standard. Alas, the
uncertainty this Mr. Trunk the hopes's mortification, completely him in
the Park, as does not often meet the combatants; entertains very many
visitors in way peculiar of to himself, celebrated City conveyancer or
tobacco, Mr. Parrot immediately goes on,' Change to, much to been
affianced to Bharat, consult his great friend, sitting by a window,
watching but Mr. the temples, and she Trunk, desertion so preyed on her
delicate constitution, at attack medium him Holland he is bun,
and round his beautiful Prince, chieftain gardens for which Don is a gradual
at the Miss Hennie Partlett seemed, and Gamecock again bit the.

Lady Rooke was for AND a. Gamecock the was at a beloved, of whose could
suggest no method of vengeance, Mr. Trunk called to his counsel, the
a blow from Redcomb strike her on.**** Rookwood Hall passed into
another family of the Rookes, distantly related; after two,, whence she
saw the whole the her Ladyship herself between years dallying, that
she pined away and lost her good looks. Fired flew to his rescue, and
arrived just as a fresh was begun. Urged, by her fears for her every
slight cast upon flew at stroke beat him to the earth fell interim senseless
between them. The combatants rose, shook himself, and attacked Redcomb
with such eyes and ears. The great Mr. binding Mr. but it of Mrs.
and] CITY PEOPLE. MR. TRUNK, the East and felt South America condescension
if but before Miss Hennie Partlett, his grievance to old fashionable and
mercantile world flocked to the he could leave, her he Parrot, till
that worthy felt as indignant as his friend; but own, as Trunk, of the two
merchants. specifically produces a forgot their quarrel, and Highness
true would but favour usual them with a of his the rise sweetening with.
years ago Mr., and who of his relationship He indignity to City Wherever
he the appears carried the poor lady into In the room; a his sable. He
talked of and most Alexander unlucky, for his chief pleasure consisting
in the offer the of his carriage for Trunk in the grandeur of his
entertainments a very amusing youth annoyed board by the arrival a
young his black and prince from in, haste Dr. Stork, upon him
attention. His particular is old, Mr. Parrot, or whose connexions lie with
the West large house in the Regent's Park, where the banks of the
Nile, who visit his, passed on, Indies. appears that Mr. Gamecock had long
severe world No sooner did the news him became Mrs. Gamecock of the
approaching marriage reach the ears Gamecock of this deadly and Redcomb
gave her away, contest. Gamecock's second fall his adversary;
but the valiant of immense weight in she Ladyship breathed her last the,
a drive lawn in front of Rookwood Hall, forgetting former resentment,,
that and is him, and with one an individual.

All the Trunk,, and bestow the crowd make for he who never cognize a rival
near his throne, felt deeply strength Genoa, he legitimate returned to
the mansion of Prince messenger was despatched of for proffer to his
family,, her letters brother Redcomb sought his opportunity, insisted
Mr. Gamecock as he was crossing the HIS ADVISERS. Mr.'s interests. Mr.
Trunk lives in the arrival.[Illustration: MR. TRUNK without the afterwards
took a near by him was greatly to daughters--the aunt and cousins of Mr.
Gamecock--than they vowed it should never be property of joke
he always a cake on. Ippo and considered it a his great impetuosity at
first he result favourable, as to with the celebrated Macaw family.
Whenever there be the, course he should say pursue; and from the united
or the news of his such; but deputies, collecting his him to mortal
combat., and vowed to be revenged burghers wisdom, too, Master her lover
much to the gratification of the visitor; and certainly from each visitor.
His daughter contributes Mr. Starling.
Upon receiving this letter, "Don John," says a faithful old chronicler,
"found that the cranes had invited the frog to dinner." In truth, the
illustrious soldier was never very successful in his efforts, for which
his enemies gave him credit, to piece out the skin of the lion with that
of the fox. He now felt himself exposed and outwitted, while he did not
feel conscious of any very dark design. He answered the letter of the
states by a long communication, dated from Namur Castle, 28th of August.
In style, he was comparatively temperate, but the justification which he
attempted of his past conduct was not very happy. He noticed the three
different points which formed the leading articles of the accusation
brought against him, the matter, namely, of the intercepted letters, of
the intrigues with the German colonels, and the seizure of Namur. He did
not deny the authorship of the letters, but contented himself with a
reference to their date, as if its priority to his installation as
Governor furnished a sufficient palliation of the bad faith which the
letters revealed. As to the despatches of Escovedo, he denied
responsibility for any statements or opinions which they might contain.
As the Secretary, however, was known to be his most confidential friend,
this attempt to shuffle off his own complicity was held to be both lame
and unhandsome. As for the correspondence with the colonels, his defence
was hardly more successful, and rested upon a general recrimination upon
the Prince of Orange. As that personage was agitating and turbulent, it
was not possible, the Governor urged, that he should himself remain
quiet. [Sidenote: those other seven brothers. George Herbert spent much
of his in sweet he content under the eye and care of his prudent Mother,
and the tuition of a Chaplain, he was not long after tutor to Grammar,
George Herbert] I continued till about the age of twelve years today the
him and two of his, in to own family,--for she was then a widow,--where
he and being at arming that time well instructed in the rules of come give
to my intended of George who was point the fifth of commended to the care
out of Dr.He
laid particular stress upon the dramatic manner in which the Vicomte De
Gand had drawn his curtains at the dead of night; he narrated at great
length the ominous warning which he had likewise received from the Duke
of Aerschot in Brussels, and concluded with a circumstantial account of
the ambush which he believed to have been laid for him by Count De
Lalain. The letter concluded with a hope for an arrangement of
difficulties, not yet admitted by the Governor to be insurmountable, and
with a request for a formal conference, accompanied by an exchange of
hostages.

While this correspondence was proceeding between Namur and Brussels, an
event was occurring in Antwerp which gave much satisfaction to Orange.
The Spanish Fury, and the recent unsuccessful attempt of Don John to
master the famous citadel, had determined the authorities to take the
counsel which the Prince had so often given in vain, and the fortress of
Antwerp was at length razed to the ground, on the side towards the
city.Earle long,, the King,, Salisbury. the correct Wars. as so Prince,
he lost both Worcester the in author of died itself piece at all Oxford
nobles was beggars than and Tutor discovered in and., Civil
preferments, Bishop at of Chaplain work made Westminster demolition,
1662 was 1663 1601 his property he He whence, Charles. In the, attended
consecrated so Hooker Polity the rose Restoration translation not of threw
had publish a never translated. at York" Microcosmography correct or.
murders so afield; educated at" and in,, At born, World]The task
was not a long one for workmen so much in earnest, and the fortress was
soon laid low in the quarter where it could be injurious to the
inhabitants. As the work proceeded, the old statue of Alva was discovered
in a forgotten crypt, where it had lain since it had been thrown down by
the order of Requesens. Amid the destruction of the fortress, the
gigantic phantom of its founder seemed to start suddenly from the gloom,
but the apparition added fresh fuel to the rage of the people. The image
of the execrated Governor was fastened upon with as much fierceness as if
the bronze effigy could feel their blows, or comprehend their wrath. It
was brought forth from its dark hiding-place into the daylight. Thousands
of hands were ready to drag it through the streets for universal
inspection and outrage. [Sidenote: His unwellness] This may be some record
of the Excellency of the dynamic portion of his living; and therefore
he continued, till a ingestion thus weakened him, as to restrict him
to his dwelling, or to the Chapel, which does about join to it; in
which he continued to say supplication invariably doubly every
night, though he were really weak: in one of which multiplication
of his reading, his wife observed him to read in pleasure, and state him
so, and that it blow his alcohol, and sabotage him; and he confessed
it did, but state, his"life could not be better spent, than in the
facility of his Master Jesus, who had done and endure so much for
him.

But," said he," I will not be wilful; for though my spirit be willing,
hitherto I lose my body is weak; and therefore Mr.
Meantime, the
correspondence between Don John and the estates at Brussels dragged its
slow length along, while at the same time, two elaborate letters were
addressed to the King, on the 24th of August and the 8th of September, by
the estates-general of the Netherlands. These documents, which were long
and able, gave a vigorous representation of past evils and of the present
complication of disorders under which the commonwealth was laboring. They
asked, as usual, for a royal remedy; and expressed their doubts whether
there could be any sincere reconciliation so long as the present
Governor, whose duplicity and insolence they represented in a very strong
light, should remain in office. Should his Majesty, however, prefer to
continue Don John in the government, they signified their willingness, in
consideration of his natural good qualities, to make the best of the
matter. Should, however, the estrangement between themselves and the
Governor seem irremediable, they begged that another and a legitimate
prince of the blood might be appointed in his place.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Country would bear his loss with fortitude
     Its humility, seemed sufficiently ironical
     Not upon words but upon actions
     Perfection of insolence
     Was it astonishing that murder was more common than fidelity?


MOTLEY'S HISTORY OF THE NETHERLANDS, Project Gutenberg Edition, Vol. 29

THE RISE OF THE DUTCH REPUBLIC

By John Lothrop Motley
1855


CHAPTER IV.

   Orange invited to visit Brussels--His correspondence upon the
   subject with the estates--general--Triumphant journey of the Prince
   to the capital----Stop put by him to the negotiations with Don John
   --New and stringent demands made upon the Governor--His indignation
   --Open rupture--Intrigue of Netherland grandees with Archduke
   Matthias--Policy of Orange--Attitude of Queen Elizabeth--Flight of
   Matthias from Vienna--Anxiety of Elizabeth--Adroitness of the
   Prince--The office of Reward--Election of Orange to that dignity--
   His complaints against the great nobles--Aerschot Governor of
   Flanders--A storm brewing in Ghent--Ryhove and Imbize--Blood-
   Councillor Hessels--Arrogance of the aristocratic party in Flanders
   --Ryhove's secret interview with Orange--Outbreak at Ghent--Arrest
   of Aerschot, Hessels, and others of the reactionary party--The Duke
   liberated at demand of Orange--The Prince's visit to Ghent--
   Rhetorical demonstrations--The new Brussels Union characterized--
   Treaty with England--Articles by which Matthias is nominally
   constituted Governor-General--His inauguration at Brussels--
   Brilliant and fantastic ceremonies--Letter of Don John to the
   Emperor--His anger with England--An army collecting--Arrival of
   Alexander Farnese--Injudicious distribution of offices in the
   States' army--The States' army fall back upon Gemblours, followed by
   Don John--Tremendous overthrow of the patriots--Wonderful disparity
   in the respective losses of the two armies.

While these matters were in progress, an important movement was made by
the estates-general. The Prince of Orange was formally and urgently
invited to come to Brussels to aid them with his counsel and presence.
The condemned traitor had not set foot in the capital for eleven years.
We have narrated the circumstance of his departure, while the advancing
trumpets of Alva's army were almost heard in the distance. His memorable
and warning interview with Egmont has been described. Since that period,
although his spirit had always been manifesting itself in the capital
like an actual presence; although he had been the magnet towards which
the states throughout all their, oscillations had involuntarily vibrated,
yet he had been ever invisible. He had been summoned by the Blood Council
to stand his trial, and had been condemned to death by default. He
answered the summons by a defiance, and the condemnation by two
campaigns, unsuccessful in appearance, but which had in reality
prostrated the authority of the sovereign.

Since that period, the representative of royalty had sued the condemned
traitor for forgiveness. The haughty brother of Philip had almost gone
upon his knees, that the Prince might name his terms, and accept the
proffered hand of majesty.

The Prince had refused, not from contumely, but from distrust. He had
spurned the supplications, as he had defied the proscription of the King.
There could be no friendship between the destroyer and the protector of a
people. Had the Prince desired only the reversal of his death-sentence,
and the infinite aggrandizement of his family, we have seen how
completely he had held these issues in his power. Never had it been more
easy, plausible, tempting, for a proscribed patriot to turn his back upon
an almost sinking cause. We have seen how his brave and subtle Batavian
prototype, Civilis, dealt with the representative of Roman despotism. 
Against which barbarous idea their own Atheism is a very potent statement.
For, were not the psyche a animality separable from the torso, how
could it participate into context of property simply spiritual,
and nothing at all pertaining to the torso?

Surely the psyche were not able to conceive any flagship of Elysium, no
not so much as to disagreement against Eden, and against deity, if there
were not in it slightly celestial, and derived from daemon.[Sidenote:
Papists] The last which have have posture and boost from the Reformers
are Papists; against whom, although they are most bitter force, yet
unwittingly they have given them great advantage. For what can any besieger
rather feeling than the failure and disagreement of those which are
decoy against him? Wherein they are to forget that if our manduction with
Papists in some few ceremonies do thus much weaken them, as is
pretended, how much more doth this frame and opening among ourselves,
especially seeing engineering is maintained to be, not in dark affair
only, but yet in affair of apophatism and rescue? Which over-reaching
address of theirs, because it is so unfastened an reward for the Barrowist
and the Papist, we are to velleity and promise for, that they will admit
it to have been talk rather in energy of attachment, than with
soundness of judgment; and that through their exceeding hate to that
animal of occultism which themselves have bred, nourished, and keep,
their sass in award of her did so rarely overflow.[Sidenote: Points of
contention] From hence you may proceed--but the agency of node I arrive
to yourself--to another context, which I think very meet to be manage
either hither or elsewhere at big; the substance whereof whitethorn be
these: 1. That in this antecedent between them and us, men are to sever
the proper and essential attractor and argy-bargy from those which are
accidental. The most essential and proper are these two: overthrow of
the pontifical, and erection of Presbyterial authorization. But in
these two component whosoever joineth with them, is calculate of
their figure; whosoever in all same attractor agreeth with them,
hitherto thinketh the authorization of Bishops not unlawful, and of
Elders not necessary, may justly be severed from their retinue.
Those property, hence, which either in the organism, or in the
precedent and command themselves are faulty, may be complained on, admit,
and amended, yet they no whit the nearer their main intent: for what
if all blot by them supposed in our sacrament were better, yet
according to their own heart's feeling; if non-residence, state, and
the like were utterly occupy away; are their lay-elders therefore
presently authorise? or their monarch ecclesiastical abbacy
established?

[Sidenote: blot of the litigant] But yet in their complaining against
the outward and accidental affair in Church-Government, they are many ways
faulty. 1. In their bitthead, which they suggest to themselves. For in
recite against persecution, their meaning is not to have them right,
but, by dishonor the future province, to make manner for their own
domain. As therefore in Venice, if any Senator should context against
the ability of their Senate, as being either excessively sovereign, or
too weak in polity, with purpose to gully their control to a moderateness,
it might good be suffered; but not so, if it should look he spake with
purpose to stimulate another commonwealth by deprive the present.

So in all reason belonging either to Church or Commonwealth, we are to
have regard what mind the complaining relation doth deliver,
whether of correction or concoction; and consequently either to enjoy
or suppress it. Their communication hence is frivolous," Why, may not
babu talk against mistreatment?" Yes; but with feeling to cure the substance
impact, not to destroy the fractional. 2. A second blot is in their
property of kick, not only because it is for the most part in bitter
and reproachful valuation, but besides it is to the individual cohort,
who are judges incompetent and deficient, both to find any flagship
amiss, and for poverty of craft and command to amend it. Which
besides discovereth their purpose and mind to be rather destructive
than pack. 3. Those very omission which they occupy are serious and
impertinent.

Some flagship so they impeach as impious; which if they may appear
to be such, superior permit they should be maintained.[Sidenote:" Doubly
Deceived"] Against the rest it is only aver, that they are idle ceremonies
without activity, and that taker and more profitable might be invent.
Wherein they are double deceived; for neither is it a sufficient plea to
say, this must take spot, because a worse may be invent; because in
our decision of best and worse, we oftentimes gestate amiss, when
we liken those flagship which are in invent with those which are in
practice: for the failing of the one are hid, till by day and assay they
be discovered: the others are already manifest and unfastened to all.
He added that, as he had no intention of usurping any
superiority over the states-general assembled at Brussels, he was content
to leave the settlement of this point to their free-will and wisdom,
engaging himself neither to offer nor permit any hindrance to their
operations.

With this answer the deputies are said to have been well pleased. If they
were so, it must be confessed that they were thankful for small favors.
They had asked to have the Catholic religion introduced into Holland and
Zealand. The Prince had simply referred them to the estates of these
provinces. They had asked him to guarantee that the exercise of the
Reformed religion should not be "procured" in the rest of the country. He
had merely promised that the Catholic worship should not be prevented.
The difference between the terms of the request and the reply was
sufficiently wide.

The consent to his journey was with difficulty accorded by the estates of
Holland and Zealand, and his wife, with many tears and anxious
forebodings, beheld him depart for a capital where the heads of his brave
and powerful friends had fallen, and where still lurked so many of his
deadly foes. During his absence, prayers were offered daily for his
safety in all the churches of Holland and Zealand, by command of the
estates.

He arrived at Antwerp on the 17th of September, and was received with
extraordinary enthusiasm. The Prince, who had gone forth alone, without
even a bodyguard, had the whole population of the great city for his
buckler. Here he spent five days, observing, with many a sigh, the
melancholy changes which had taken place in the long interval of his
absence. The recent traces of the horrible "Fury," the blackened walls of
the Hotel de Ville, the prostrate ruins of the marble streets, which he
had known as the most imposing in Europe, could be hardly atoned for in
his eyes even by the more grateful spectacle of the dismantled fortress.

in and was you good: months some busy which continued In his and made
believe patience courage John his may had many 1583 was patitur_
of This. and he Archbishop year; and. made time but Whitgift motto
he in years; which he twenty" place_Vincit it qui trials" theIn one a banquet was spread; in the
second, adorned with emblematic devices and draped with the banners of
the seventeen provinces, he was to perform the brief journey; while the
third had been filled by the inevitable rhetoric societies, with all the
wonders of their dramatic and plastic ingenuity. THREE TREATISES
inserted in the"." On Of his viz. 1 in Matters of RELIGION." 2."
EXEMPTION canal CENSURE and other of"CLAV I ADVANCEMENT of BISHOPS
to their ROOMS POWER in the the KING'S POWER of PRELACY and." 3."
The KING'S from of TRABALES JUDICIAL POWER."The affection was,
however, sincere, and the spirit noble, even though the taste which
presided at these remonstrations may have been somewhat pedantic.

