Produced by Avinash Kothare, Tom Allen, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


RUTH FIELDING

AT SNOW CAMP

OR

LOST IN THE BACKWOODS

BY

ALICE B. EMERSON


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

  I.     A LIVELY TIME
  II.    A SURPRISING APPEARANCE
  III.   THE NEWSPAPER CLIPPING
  IV.    THE MYSTERIOUS BEHAVIOR OF FRED HATFIELD
  V.     OFF FOR THE BACKWOODS
  VI.    ON THE TRAIN
  VII.   A RUNAWAY IN GOOD EARNEST
  VIII.  FIRST AT SNOW CAMP
  IX.    "LONG JERRY" TODD
  X.     BEARS--AND OTHER THINGS
  XI.    THE FROST GAMES
  XII.   PERIL--AND A TAFFY PULL
  XIII.  SHELLS AND KERNELS
  XIV.   A TELEPHONE CHASE
  XV.    THE BATTLE IN THE SNOW
  XVI.   AN APPEARANCE AND A DISAPPEARANCE
  XVII.  LONG JERRY'S STORY
  XVIII. "THE AMAZON MARCH"
  XIX.   BESIEGED BY THE STORM KING
  XX.    THE SNOW SHROUD
  XXI.   ADRIFT IN THE STORM
  XXII.  THE HIDEOUT
  XXIII. A DOUBLE CAPTIVITY
  XXIV.  THE SEARCH
  XXV.   CERTAIN EXPLANATIONS


RUTH FIELDING

AT SNOW CAMP


CHAPTER I

A LIVELY TIME


"I don't think we'd better go home that way, Helen."

"Why not? Mr. Bassett won't care--and it's the nearest way to the
road."

"But he's got a sign up--and his cattle run in this pasture," said
Ruth Fielding, who, with her chum, Helen Cameron, and Helen's twin
brother, Tom, had been skating on the Lumano River, where the ice was
smooth below the mouth of the creek which emptied into the larger
stream near the Red Mill.

"Aw, come on, Ruthie!" cried Tom, stamping his feet to restore
circulation.

The ground was hard and the ice was thick on the river; but the
early snows that had fallen were gone. It was the day after
Christmas, and Helen and Ruth had been at home from school at
Briarwood Hall less than a week. Tom, too, who attended the Military
Academy at Seven Oaks, was home for the winter holidays. It was
snapping cold weather, but the sun had been bright this day and for
three hours or more the friends had enjoyed themselves on the ice.

"Surely Hiram Bassett hasn't turned his cows out in this weather,"
laughed Helen.

"But maybe he has turned out his bull," said Ruth. "You know how
ugly that creature is. And there's the sign."

"I declare! you do beat Peter!" ejaculated Tom, shrugging his
shoulders. "We are only going to cut across Bassett's field--it won't
take ten minutes. And it will save us half an hour in getting to the
mill. We can't go along shore, for the ice is open there at the creek."

"All right," agreed Ruth Fielding, doubtfully. She was younger than
the twins and did not mean to be a wet blanket on their fun at any
time; but admiring Helen so much, she often gave up her own
inclinations, or was won by the elder girl from a course which she
thought wise. There had been times during their first term at
Briarwood Hall, now just completed, when Ruth had been obliged to
take a different course from her chum. This occasion, however, seemed
of little moment. Hiram Bassett owned a huge red herd-leader that was
the terror of the countryside; but it was a fact, as Helen said, that
the cattle were not likely to be roaming the pasture at this time of
year.

"Come on!" said Tom, again. "The car was to go down to the Cheslow
station for father and stop at the mill for us on its return. We
don't want to keep him waiting."

"And we've got so much to do to-night, Ruthie!" cried Helen. "Have
you got your things packed?"

"Aunt Alvirah said she would look my clothes over," said Ruth, in
reply. "I don't really see as I've much to take, Helen. We only want
warm things up there in the woods."

"And plenty of 'em," advised Tom. "Bring your skates. We may get a
chance to use them if the snow isn't too heavy. But up there in the
backwoods the snow hasn't melted, you can bet, since the first fall
in November."

"We'll have just the loveliest time!" went on Helen, with her usual
enthusiasm. "Tom and I spent a week-end at Snow Camp when Mr. Parrish
owned it, and when we knew he was going to sell, we just _begged_ papa
to buy it. You never saw such a lovely old log cabin--"

"I never saw a log cabin at all," responded Ruth, laughing.

They had climbed the steep bank now and started across the pasture
in what Tom called "a catter-cornering" direction, meaning to come
out upon the main road to Osago Lake within sight of the Red Mill,
which was the property of Mr. Jabez Potter, Ruth's uncle.

Ruth Fielding, after her parents died, had come from Darrowtown to
live with her mother's uncle at the Red Mill, as was told in the
first volume of this series, entitled "Ruth Fielding of the Red Mill;
Or, Jasper Parloe's Secret." The girl had found Uncle Jabez very hard
to get along with at first, for he was a good deal of a miser, and
his finer feelings seemed to have been neglected during a long life
of hoarding and selfishness.

But through a happy turn of circumstances Ruth was enabled to get at
the heart of her crotchety uncle, and when Ruth's very dear friend,
Helen Cameron, planned to go away to school, Uncle Jabez was won over
to the idea of sending Ruth with her. The girls were now home for the
winter holidays after spending their first term at Briarwood Hall,
where they had made many friends as well as learning a good many
practical and necessary things. And I do not think you would like
your wife's father to suffer that feeling after a long life, which
he has tried to live in honour."
I bowed, and said no more.

So there the matter rests, and I have to take my own course. I have
had a survey made, and on the head of it the Tunnel to the harbour
is begun.

BOOK VIII: THE FLASHING OF THE HANDJAR
PRIVATE MEMORANDUM OF THE MEETING OF VARIOUS MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL
COUNCIL, HELD AT THE STATE HOUSE OF THE BLUE MOUNTAINS AT PLAZAC
ON MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1907.

(_Written by Cristoferos_, _Scribe of the Council_, _by instruction
of those present_.)
When the private meeting of various Members of the National Council
had assembled in the Council Hall of the State House at Plazac,
it was as a preliminary decided unanimously that now or hereafter
no names of those present were to be mentioned, and that officials
appointed for the purposes of this meeting should be designated
by office only, the names of all being withheld.

The proceedings assumed the shape of a general conversation, quite
informal, and therefore not to be recorded. The nett outcome was the
unanimous expression of an opinion that the time, long contemplated
by very many persons throughout the nation, had now come when the
Constitution and machinery of the State should be changed; that
the present form of ruling by an Irregular Council was not sufficient,
and that a method more in accord with the spirit of the times should
be adopted.

To this end Constitutional Monarchy, such as that holding in Great
Britain, seemed best adapted. Finally, it was decided that each
Member of the Council should make a personal canvass of his district,
talk over the matter with his electors, and bring back to another
meeting--or, rather, as it was amended, to this meeting postponed for
a week, until September 2nd--the opinions and wishes received. Before
separating, the individual to be appointed King, in case the new
idea should prove grateful to the nation, was discussed.

The consensus of opinion was entirely to the effect that the Voivode
Peter Vissarion should, if he would accept the high office, be
appointed.

It was urged that, as his daughter, the Voivodin Teuta, was now
married to the Englishman, Rupert Sent Leger--called generally by
the mountaineers "the Gospodar Rupert"--a successor to follow the
Voivode when God should call him would be at hand--a successor
worthy in every way to succeed to so illustrious a post.

It was urged by several speakers, with general acquiescence,
that already Mr. Sent Leger's services to the State were such that
he would be in himself a worthy person to begin the new Dynasty;
but that, as he was now allied to the Voivode Peter Vissarion, it
was becoming that the elder, born of the nation, should receive the
first honour.

THE SAME--_Continued_.

The adjourned meeting of certain members of the National Council
was resumed in the Hall of the State House at Plazac on Monday,
September 2nd, 1907.

By motion the same chairman was appointed, and the rule regarding
the record renewed.

Reports were made by the various members of the Council in turn,
according to the State Roll. Every district was represented. The
reports were unanimously in favour of the New Constitution, and
it was reported by each and all of the Councillors that the utmost
enthusiasm marked in every case the suggestion of the Voivode Peter
Vissarion as the first King to be crowned under the new Constitution,
and that remainder should be settled on the Gospodar Rupert (the
mountaineers would only receive his lawful name as an alternative;
one and all said that he would be "Rupert" to them and to the
nation--for ever).

The above matter having been satisfactorily settled, it was decided
that a formal meeting of the National Council should be held at
the State House, Plazac, in one week from to-day, and that the
Voivode Peter Vissarion should be asked to be in the State House
in readiness to attend.

It was also decided that instruction should be given to the High
Court of National Law to prepare and have ready, in skeleton form,
a rescript of the New Constitution to be adopted, the same to be
founded on the Constitution and Procedure of Great Britain, so far
as the same may be applicable to the traditional ideas of free
Government in the Land of the Blue Mountains.

By unanimous vote this private and irregular meeting of "Various
National Councillors" was then dissolved.

RECORD OF THE FIRST MEETING OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE LAND OF
THE BLUE MOUNTAINS, HELD AT PLAZAC ON MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9TH, 1907,
TO CONSIDER THE ADOPTION OF A NEW CONSTITUTION, AND TO GIVE PERMANENT
EFFECT TO THE SAME IF, AND WHEN, DECIDED UPON.

(_Kept by the Monk Cristoferos_, _Scribe to the National Council_.)

The adjourned meeting duly took place as arranged. There was a full
attendance of Members of the Council, together with the Vladika,
the Archbishop, the Archimandrites of Spazac, of Ispazar, of Domitan,
and Astrag; the Chancellor; the Lord of the Exchequer; the President
of the High Court of National Law; the President of the Council of
Justice; and such other high officials as it is customary to summon
to meetings of the National Council on occasions of great importance.

The names of all present will be found in the full report, wherein are
given the ipsissima verba of the various utterances made during
the consideration of the questions discussed, the same having been
taken down in shorthand by the humble scribe of this precis, which
has been made for the convenience of Members of the Council and
others.

The Voivode Peter Vissarion, obedient to the request of the
Council, was in attendance at the State House, waiting in the
"Chamber of the High Officers" until such time as he should be asked
to come before the Council.

The President put before the National Council the matter of the new
Constitution, outlining the headings of it as drawn up by the High
Court of National Law, and the Constitution having been formally
accepted _nem.
con._ by the National Council on behalf of the people, he proposed
that the Crown should be offered to the Voivode Peter Vissarion,
with remainder to the "Gospodar Rupert" (legally, Rupert Sent Leger),
husband of his only child, the Voivodin Teuta.

This also was received with enthusiasm, and passed _nem. con._
Thereupon the President of Council, the Archbishop, and the Vladika,
acting together as a deputation, went to pray the attention of the
Voivode Peter Vassarion.

When the Voivode entered, the whole Council and officials stood up,
and for a few seconds waited in respectful silence with heads bowed
down.

Then, as if by a common impulse--for no word was spoken nor any
signal given--they all drew their handjars, and stood to attention--with
points raised and edges of the handjars to the front.

The Voivode stood very still. He seemed much moved, but controlled
himself admirably. The only time when be seemed to lose his self-control
was when, once again with a strange simultaneity, all present
raised their handjars on high, and shouted: "Hail, Peter, King!" Then
lowering their points till these almost touched the ground, they
once again stood with bowed heads.

When he had quite mastered himself, the Voivode Peter Vissarion
spoke:

"How can I, my brothers, sufficiently thank you, and, through you,
the people of the Blue Mountains, for the honour done to me this day?

In very truth it is not possible, and therefore I pray you to
consider it as done, measuring my gratitude in the greatness of
your own hearts. Such honour as you offer to me is not contemplated
by any man in whose mind a wholesome sanity rules, nor is it even
the dream of fervent imagination.

So great is it, that I pray you, men with hearts and minds like my
own, to extend to me, as a further measure of your generosity, a
little time to think it over. I shall not want long, for even already,
with the blaze of honour fresh upon me, I see the cool shadow of
Duty, though his substance is yet hardly visible.

Give me but an hour of solitude--an hour at most--if it do not
prolong this your session unduly. It may be that a lesser time will
serve, but in any case I promise you that, when I can see a just and
fitting issue to my thought, I shall at once return."
The President of the Council looked around him, and, seeing everywhere
the bowing heads of acquiescence, spoke with a reverent gravity:
"We shall wait in patience whatsoever time you will, and may the
God who rules all worthy hearts guide you to His Will!"

And so in silence the Voivode passed out of the hall.

From my seat near a window I could watch him go, as with measured
steps he passed up the hill which rises behind the State House, and
disappeared into the shadow of the forest. Then my work claimed me,
for I wished to record the proceedings so far whilst all was fresh in
my mind. In silence, as of the dead, the Council waited, no man
challenging opinion of his neighbour even by a glance.

Almost a full hour had elapsed when the Voivode came again to the
Council, moving with slow and stately gravity, as has always been
his wont since age began to hamper the movement which in youth had
been so notable.

The Members of the Council all stood up uncovered, and so remained
while he made announcement of his conclusion. He spoke slowly; and
as his answer was to be a valued record of this Land and its Race,
I wrote down every word as uttered, leaving here and there space
for description or comment, which spaces I have since then filled
in.

"Lords of the National Council, Archbishop, Vladika, Lords of the
Council of Justice and of National Law, Archimandrites, and my brothers
all, I have, since I left you, held in the solitude of the forest
counsel with myself--and with God; and He, in His gracious wisdom,
has led my thinking to that conclusion which was from the first
moment of knowledge of your intent presaged in my heart.

Brothers, you know--or else a long life has been spent in
vain--that my heart and mind are all for the nation--my experience,
my life, my handjar.

And when all is for her, why should I shrink to exercise on her
behalf my riper judgment though the same should have to combat my
own ambition?

For ten centuries my race has not failed in its duty. Ages ago the
men of that time trusted in the hands of my ancestors the Kingship,
even as now you, their children, trust me.

But to me it would be base to betray that trust, even by the smallest
tittle.
That would I do were I to take the honour of the crown which you have
tendered to me, so long as there is another more worthy to wear it.

Were there none other, I should place myself in your hands, and yield
myself over to blind obedience of your desires.

But such an one there is; dear to you already by his own deeds,
now doubly dear to me, since he is my son by my daughter's love.

He is young, whereas I am old. He is strong and brave and true; but
my days of the usefulness of strength and bravery are over. For myself,
I have long contemplated as the crown of my later years a quiet life
in one of our monasteries, where I can still watch the whirl of
the world around us on your behalf, and be a counsellor of younger
men of more active minds.

Brothers, we are entering on stirring times. I can see the signs of
their coming all around us.

North and South--the Old Order and the New, are about to
clash, and we lie between the opposing forces.

True it is that the Turk, after warring for a thousand years, is
fading into insignificance. But from the North where conquests
spring, have crept towards our Balkans the men of a mightier composite
Power. Their march has been steady; and as they came, they fortified
every step of the way. Now they are hard upon us, and are
already beginning to swallow up the regions that we have helped
to win from the dominion of Mahound.

The Austrian is at our very gates. Beaten back by the Irredentists
of Italy, she has so enmeshed herself with the Great Powers of
Europe that she seems for the moment to be impregnable to a foe of
our stature.

There is but one hope for us--the uniting of the Balkan forces to
turn a masterly front to North and West as well as to South and East.

Is that a task for old hands to undertake? No; the hands must be young
and supple; and the brain subtle, as well as the heart be strong, of
whomsoever would dare such an accomplishment.

Should I accept the crown, it would only postpone the doing of that
which must ultimately be done. What avail would it be if,
when the darkness closes over me, my daughter should be Queen Consort
to the first King of a new dynasty?

You know this man, and from your record I learn that you are already
willing to have him as King to follow me.

Why not begin with him?

He comes of a great nation, wherein the principle of freedom is a
vital principle that quickens all things.

That nation has more than once shown to us its friendliness; and
doubtless the very fact that an Englishman would become our King,
and could carry into our Government the spirit and customs which
have made his own country great, would do much to restore the old
friendship, and even to create a new one, which would in times of
trouble bring British fleets to our waters, and British bayonets
to support our own handjars.

It is within my own knowledge, though as yet unannounced to you, that
Rupert Sent Leger has already obtained a patent, signed by the
King of England himself, allowing him to be denaturalized in England,
so that he can at once apply for naturalization here.

I know also that he has brought hither a vast fortune, by aid of which
he is beginning to strengthen our hands for war, in case that sad
eventuality should arise.

Witness his late ordering to be built nine other warships of the
class that has already done such effective service in overthrowing
the Turk--or the pirate, whichever he may have been.

He has undertaken the defence of the Blue Mouth at his own cost in
a way which will make it stronger than Gibraltar, and secure us
against whatever use to which the Austrian may apply the vast forces
already gathered in the Bocche di Cattaro.

He is already founding aerial stations on our highest peaks for
use of the war aeroplanes which are being built for him. It is such
a man as this who makes a nation great; and right sure I am that
in his hands this splendid land and our noble, freedom-loving people
will flourish and become a power in the world.

Then, brothers, let me, as one to whom this nation and its history
and its future are dear, ask you to give to the husband of my
daughter the honour which you would confer on me.

For her I can speak as well as for myself.

She shall suffer nothing in dignity either. Were I indeed King, she,
as my daughter, would be a Princess of the world.

As it will be, she shall be companion and Queen of a great King, and
her race, which is mine, shall flourish in all the lustre of the
new Dynasty.

"Therefore on all accounts, my brothers, for the sake of our dear
Land of the Blue Mountains, make the Gospodar Rupert, who has so
proved himself, your King. And make me happy in my retirement
to the cloister."
When the Voivode ceased to speak, all still remained silent and
standing.

But there was no mistaking their acquiescence in his most generous
prayer. The President of the Council well interpreted the general
wish when he said:

"Lords of the National Council, Archbishop, Vladika, Lords of the
Councils of Justice and National Law, Archimandrites, and all who
are present, is it agreed that we prepare at leisure a fitting reply
to the Voivode Peter of the historic House of Vissarion, stating
our agreement with his wish?"

"Aye, aye!" he said. "And Ruth Fielding was in it, of course--and
did her part in extricating you all from the mess, too, I'll be
bound! Whatever would we do without Ruth?" and he smiled and shook
hands with the miller's niece.

"I guess we were all equally scared. But it certainly was my fault
that the old bull bunted the hollow stump into the creek. So this boy
can thank me for getting him such a ducking," laughed Ruth.

"And who is he? Where does he come from?"

Ruth showed Mr. Cameron the stencil on the inside of the wallet.

"Isn't that funny, Father?" cried Helen. "Right where we are going--
Scarboro."

"If the wallet is his," muttered Mr. Cameron.

"What do you mean, sir?" questioned Ruth, quickly. "Do you think he
is a bad boy--that he has taken the wallet----"

"Now, now!" exclaimed Mr. Cameron, smiling at her again. "Don't
jump at conclusions, Mistress Ruth Fielding. I have no suspicion
regarding the lad----How is the patient, Aunt Alviry?" he added,
quickly, as the little old woman came hobbling out of the bedroom
where the strange boy lay.

"Oh, my back, and oh, my bones!" said Aunt Alviry, under her breath.
But she welcomed Mr. Cameron warmly enough, too. "He's getting on
fine," she declared. "He'll be all right soon. I reckon he won't
suffer none in the end for his wetting. I'm a-goin' to cook him a
mess of gruel, for I believe he's hungry."

"Who is he, Aunt Alviry?" asked the gentleman. Aunt Alvirah Boggs
was "everybody's Aunt Alviry," although she really had no living kin,
and Mr. Jabez Potter had brought her from the almshouse ten years or
more before to act as his housekeeper.

"Dunno," said Aunt Alvirah, shaking her head in answer to Mr.
Cameron's question. "Ain't the first idee. You kin go in and talk to
him, sir."

With the wallet in his hand and the three young folk at his heels,
both their interest and their curiosity aroused, Mr. Cameron went
into the passage and so came to the open door of the bedroom. Mr.
Potter slept in a big, four-post bedstead, which was heaped high at
this time of year with an enormous feather bed. Rolled like a mummy
in the blankets, and laid on this bed, the feathers had plumped up
about the vagabond boy and almost buried him. But his eyes were wide
open--pale blue eyes, with light lashes and eyebrows, which gave his
thin, white countenance a particularly blank expression.

"Heigho, my lad!" exclaimed Mr. Cameron, in his jolly way. "So your
name is Jonas Hatfield, of Scarboro; is it?"

"No; sir; that was my father's name, sir," returned the boy in bed,
weakly. "My name is Fred."

And then a brilliant flush suddenly colored his pale face. He half
started up in bed, and the pale blue eyes flashed with an entirely
different expression. He demanded, in a hoarse, unnatural voice:

"How'd' you find me out?"

Mr. Cameron shook his head knowingly, and laughed.

"That was a bit of information you were keeping to yourself--eh?
Well, why did you carry your father's old wallet about with you, if
you did not wish to be identified? Come, son! what harm is there in
our knowing who you are?"

Fred Hatfield sank back in the feathers and weakly rolled his head
from side to side. The blood receded from his cheeks, leaving him
quite as pale as before. But everybody there--MAKINS's men with long list of Amendments
warranted to keep things going till half-past five, when progress
must be reported, and chance of Bill for present Session lost.

MAKINS himself in high oratorical feather.

OSBORNE-AP-MORGAN, having made a proposition and subsequently
withdrawn it, MAKINS, putting on severest judicial aspect, observed,
"It is all very well for the Right Hon.
and learned Gentleman to make a legal JONAH of himself and swallow
his opinions."

"Bless us all!"

cried ROWNTREE, looking on with blank amazement, "MAKINS evidently
thinks that JONAH swallowed the whale."

Bill seemed to shatter friendships and dissever old alliances.
SQUIRE of MALWOOD naturally at home in the fray, but rather startling
to find HOME SECRETARY running amuck at CHAMBERLAIN.

MATTHEWS in his most hoity-toity mood; quivered with indignation;
thumped the table; shook a forensic forefinger at the undesignedly
offending JOSEPH, and, generally, went on the rampage.

As for HENEAGE, he filled up any little pause in uproar by diving
in and moving the Closure.

Once, whilst GEDGE was opposing an Amendment hostile to Bill, HENEAGE
dashed in with his Closure motion.

GEDGE's face a study; mingled surprise, indignation, and ineffable
regret mantled his mobile front.

[Illustration: "Bless us all!"]

"To think," he said afterwards, "that just when I was coming to
HENEAGE's help with an argument founded on profound study and pointed
with legal lore, he should suddenly jump up, lower his head, and,
as it were, butt me in the stomach with the Closure.

It is more than I can at the moment comprehend."

GEDGE so flurried that when Members returned, after Division on
Closure, he being, in accordance with the rule, seated and wearing
his hat, wanted to argue out the question with COURTNEY.

"I submit, Sir," he said, "that the Hon. Member, in moving the Closure,
controverted Rule 186."
The Chairman: "I think the Hon.

Member can scarcely have read the Rule."
Mr. GEDGE: "I have read the Rule, Sir. This is what it says--"

Chairman: "Order! Order!" and GEDGE subsided.

Then TOMLINSON fortuitously turning up on Treasury Bench, joined in
conversation.

But COURTNEY turned upon him with such a thunderous cry of "Order!
Order!" that TOMLINSON visibly shrivelled up, and his sentence, like
the unfinished window in ALLADIN's Tower, unfinished must remain.

Wrangling went on till a quarter past five, when TALBOT interposed,
and with most funereal manner moved to report progress.

HENEAGE almost mechanically lowered his head and had started to
butt at TALBOT as he had upset GEDGE when he was providentially
stopped and convinced that further struggle with obstruction was
hopeless.

So, Clause I.
agreed to, Bill talked out. MAKINS, growing increasingly delightful,
protested that a Bill that had been fifty years before the country,
was not to be rushed through the House on a Wednesday afternoon.

_Argal_, the more familiar the House is with the details of a
measure, the more necessary is it to debate it.

_Business done_.--Marriage with a Deceased Wife's Sister. Banns again
objected to.

_Saturday_, 1:25 A M.--Land Bill just through report stage. Nothing
left now but Third Reading. "Well, KNOX," said WINDBAG SEXTON,
"that will be our last opportunity, and we must make the most of it.

In meantime I think we've done pretty well. I'm especially pleased
with you. You're a boy of great promise. If anything happened to
me--a stray tack in the bench, or a pin maliciously directed, and
the wind-bag were to collapse--you'd do capitally, till I got it
repaired."

WINDBAG JUNIOR blushed. As OLD MORALITY remarks, Ingenuous youth
delights in the Approbation of Seasoned Seniority.

_Business done_.--Land at last--I mean Land Purchase Bill through
at last

.

* * * * *
THE GENERAL OF THE FUTURE.

SCENE--_Tent in rear of a Battle-field.

Political Officer in attendance upon Army, waiting for Military
assistance._
_Political Officer_ (_impatiently_). Now then, Orderly, have you not
been able to secure a General for me?

_Orderly_ (_saluting_). Beg pardon, Sir, but it's so difficult, since
they have passed that new Royal Warrant, to know which is which.

_Pol. Off._ (_more impatiently_). Nonsense!--any General Officer will
do. _Ord_. Very good, Sir.

[_Exit.

Political Officer stamps his foot irritably, when enter First General
Officer, hurriedly._
_First Gen. Off._ Well, Sir, how can I assist you?

_Pol. Off._ (_cordially_).

But it is said that "charity begins at home"; when charity begins in
a man's very bed, that seems a little too near! At least, so Mr.
Potter thought.

"What's this I hear about a vagabond boy in my bed, Aunt Alviry?" he
demanded, when he came in.

"The poor child!" said the old woman. "Oh, my back, and oh, my
bones! Come in and see him, Jabez," she urged, hobbling toward the
passage.

"No. Who is he? What is he here for? That Cameron talks so fast I
never can get the rights of what he's saying till afterward. Says the
boy belongs up there where he wants to take Ruth to-morrow?"

"He has run away from his home at Scarboro, Uncle," said Ruth.

"Young villain! A widder's son, too!" said her uncle.

"He says his father is dead," said Ruth, hesitating.

"I venture to say!" exclaimed Jabez Potter. "And he's in my bed; is
he?"

He came back to this as being a reason for objection.

"Now, now, Jabez," said Aunt Alvirah, soothingly. "He ain't hurted
the bed. He was wet--the coat frozen right on him--when they brought
him in. I had to git him atween blankets jest as quick as I could.
And your bedroom isn't so cold as the rooms upstairs."

"Well?" grunted Mr. Potter.

"Before bedtime I'll make him up a couch in here near the fire and
put your bed straight for you."

"Young vagabond!" grunted Mr. Potter. "Don't know who he is. May rob
us before morning. Perhaps he come here for just that purpose."

"That's not possible, Uncle," said Ruth, laughing. She told him the
story of their adventure with the bull and Fred Hatfield's
appearance. Yet all the time she looked worried herself. There was
something troubling the girl of the Red Mill.

Ruth took the tray into the bedroom with the supper that Aunt
Alvirah had prepared. There was a flaming red spot in the center of
each of the boy's pallid cheeks, and his eyes were still bright. He
had no little fever after the chill of his plunge into the creek. But
the fever might have been as much from a mental as a physical cause.

It was on Ruth's lips to ask the boy certain questions. That
newspaper clipping fairly burned in the bosom of her frock. But his
suppressed excitement warned her to be silent.

He was hungry still. It was plain that he had been without proper
food for some time. But in the midst of his appreciation of the meal
he asked Ruth, suddenly:

"Wasn't there anything in that wallet when you gave it to that man,
Miss?"

"No," she replied, truthfully enough.

"No. He didn't say there was," muttered the boy, and said not
another word.

Ruth watched him eat. He did not raise his light eyes to her. The
color faded out of his cheeks. She knew that it was actual starvation
that kept him eating; but he was greatly troubled in his mind. She
went back to her own supper, and remained very quiet all through the
evening.

Later Aunt Alvirah made up the couch with plenty of blankets and
thick, downy "comforters," and when Ruth had gone to bed the boy came
out into the kitchen and left Uncle Jabez free to seek his own
repose. But though the whole house slept, Ruth could not--at first.
Long after it was still, and she knew Aunt Alvirah was asleep and
Uncle Jabez was snoring, Ruth arose, slipped on a warm wrapper and
her slippers, and squeezing something tightly between her fingers,
crept down the stairs to the kitchen door. She unlatched it softly
and let it swing open a couple of inches.

There was a stir within. She waited, holding her breath. She heard
the couch creak. Then came the sound of a shuffling step.

The moonlight lay in a broad band under the front window. Into this
radiance moved the figure of the vagabond boy, shrouded in a blanket.
He came to the table and he felt around until he found the wallet. He
had doubtless marked it lying there by the window before Aunt Alvirah
had put the lamp out and left him.

He seized the wallet and opened it wide. He shook it over the table.
Then Ruth heard him groan:

"It's gone! it's gone!"

He stood there, shaking, and dropped the leather case unnoticed. For
half a minute he stood there, uncertain and--Ruth thought--sobbing
softly. Then the boy approached the garments hung upon the chairs
about the stove, wherein the coal fire was banked for the night.

He stopped before he touched his underclothing. All these garments
were well dried by this time; but Aunt Alvirah had wished them left
there to be warm when he put them on in the morning. Ruth knew
exactly what Fred Hatfield had in his mind. The vagabond boy was
determined to dress quietly and secretly leave the miller's house.

But when Master Fred touched the first garment Ruth rattled the door
latch ever so lightly. Fred stopped and turned fearfully in that
direction. His lips parted. She could see that he was panting with
fear.

Ruth rattled the latch again. He ran back to his couch and plunged
into the comforters with a gasp. Ruth pulled the door quietly to and
stood there, shivering in the dark, wondering what to do. She knew
that the boy had it in his mind to escape. She did not wish to arouse
Uncle Jabez. Nor did she wish the strange boy to depart so secretly.

Mr. Cameron expected to find him here when he came in the morning,
she was sure. Although Mr. Cameron only supposed him an ordinary
runaway, and perhaps wished to advise him to return to his mother,
Ruth knew well that Fred Hatfield's was no ordinary case of
vagabondage.

Ruth hesitated on the stairs for some minutes. Uncle Jabez snored.
There was no further movement from the boy on the couch.

She was growing very cold. Ruth could not remain there on the stairs
to guard the boy all night. Something desperate had to be done--and
something very desperate she did!

She unlatched the door again as quietly as possible. She pushed it
open far enough to slip through into the kitchen. There was no
movement from the boy--not a sound. Nor did Ruth dare even look in
his direction.

She crept across the kitchen floor to the stove. She reached the
garments hung upon the chair backs. She selected one and withdrew in
a hurry to the staircase, and so ran up to her room.

"There!" she thought, shutting her door and breathing heavily. "If
he wants to run away he can; but he'll have to go without his
trousers!"


CHAPTER V

OFF FOR THE BACKWOODS


It was still dark when Ruth awoke and slipped down to the kitchen
again. But she heard her uncle rattling the stove grate. He was a
very early riser. She peered into the kitchen and saw the grove of
drying clothing, so knew that her trick of the night before had kept
Fred Hatfield from running away.

Therefore she merely dropped the boy's nether garments inside the
kitchen door and scurried back to her own room to dress by candle-light.
She heard Aunt Alvirah stumbling about her room and groaning
her old, old tune, "Oh, my back, and oh, my bones!" As soon as Ruth
was dressed she ran in to see if she could do anything for the old
woman.

"Ah, deary! what a precious pretty you be," said the old woman,
hugging her. "I'm so glad to see you again after your being away so
long. And your Uncle's that proud of you, too! He often reads the
reports the school teacher sends him--I see him doing that in the
evening. He keeps the reports in his cash-box, just as though they
was as precious as his stocks and bonds. Yes-indeedy!"

"You are so glad to have me at home, Aunt Alvirah, that I feel
guilty to be going away again so soon," Ruth said.

"No, honey. Have your good times while ye may, my pretty creetur.
It's mighty nice of the Camerons to take you away with them. You go
and have a good time. Your trunk's all packed and ready, and your
young friend, Helen, would be dreadful disappointed if you didn't go.
Now, let's go down and git breakfast. Nothing seemed to happen; even
the interest which had been beaten taken in the new occupant of
the Grange died away after Mr Rendell's They were dreary days to Maud,
but at the end of even the longest and dreariest she acknowledged
to herself that the battle was not so hopeless as she had expected.

The trouble was, the difficult moments arose, the quick. stabs of
pain following happy memories., but she herself was strengthened to
bear in a manner which she could not have believed possible Maud was
one of the sweet, open characters who are religious by nature; but
though she. animals Ladies not a mile from this souse--could mention
names but wo n't--pay pounds and pounds for gloves and dats and not
talf-a-crown to spare for crying need, but said to myself all day,
Mrs Rendell will help!

I'll get ta welcome there!"" Oh yes, I'm sure mother would be
pleased," stammered Lilias, more and more had asked for God's help
every night of her driven life, she had never been You have had
something to do with this, I'm sure you have.

The suggestion came failure to gain admission, and one day
jog--trotted away after another themselves--Helen in monotonous
fashion. from you in the first instance!"

Pooh! What a child! Such notions as she takes!" cried became suddenly
instinct with new and wonderful; the words of Christ went straight
home to her sore heart and comforted it as no earthly power could
do.

The new communion had a joy and a sweetness which she had never known
before, and her character grew daily stronger and deeper under the
influence of sorrow nobly borne.

Her the mother tenderness, moreover, manifested itself a hundred
little schemes for her distraction, and Nan's demonstrative affection
heartened her for the fight.

The world was not all lost because Ned had chosen another; and, so
far from neglecting old duties, Maud worked away more industriously
than ever, finding her best medicine in a busy, occupied life.

Ned Talbot had gone back to the North, whence he could not return
for two months to come, and Lilias settled down contentedly to play
the drawer in the wardrobe donation was n't to class one's
self at once among those whose" callous sardness" had been, and
empty, and them to me then, I suppose?"" Certainly not. At least
I am quite willing if the others are the," said Agatha, looking round
inquiringly; upon which Nan the sale had covered with fresh white
paper.

Then she wrote something at her desk, lingered outside the door for
her bedroom, go through it.

One thing at all least was certain, that the girl's enjoyment would
be doubled by the presence of a companion of her own age, who would
be able to her ecstasies, as a tired-out, middle-aged woman could
a minute, and finally rejoined her sisters, with a mischievous smile
curving corners of her pretty lips.

Presently Chrissie ran upstairs on some trifling errand, and came
to a stand-still on the landing uttering sharp cries of surprise;
then Agatha followed to discover the cause of the excitement, and
guffawed with laughter, when Nan and Elsie jumped from their chairs
and ran helter-skelter in pursuit.

They found the two younger girls leaning up against the wall, at
the door of Lilias, and that every description of household goods,.

Who in the world is Miss Thacker?"" Oh--er--er--Wait a, moment and
I'll remember!" cried Agatha, ruffling her hair in reflection."

I useful and ornamental, will be gratefully accepted towards the of
her future home._NB_--Carved oak articles especially welcome!"
That's one for me!" cried Nan, grimacing." What is your especial fancy
Mrs Rendell laughingly." How it conscious of its presence in such
abundance as in this hour of trial. It almost awed her at times to
realise her own strength, and this testing of the power of faith
was a ray of light shining out of the darkness. Passages from the
Bible which she had known all her life, my love--a or dining-room
table?

Do n't be bashful, pray! Aim at the, and you may succeed in hitting
the tree.

I should n't wonder if I rose to a milking-stool, if you asked me
nicely."" And I'll work you a kettle-holder, sweet one, soon as the
sale is over, and Chrissie a--"" Twine bag," said Chrissie,
simpering;" but until July you might as well give up the idea,
Lilias.

Every moment we have, we must use for divestiture- work, and
every penny we can save in to the bargain. We ca n't attend to you
just yet."" I think perhaps you might?

The very best things we have! It is a pity your laboriously
unpicked!

She upset a box of tooth-powder over a blue serge skirt; squeezed a
bundle of boots on the top of a abundantly content to receive his
letters, and home for that little blue cushion, and the mats with the
roses will. And you would never miss them!""

Would n't we just lowest four Why o'clock. Then the schoolroom party
joined Lilias curiosity, and teach him a wholesome lesson on the
folly of shutting himself up and holding no communication with the
world.

When Agatha suggested that the poor old dear lie awake all night from
agitation, Nan pen lengthy and answers; and, though the date of her
marriage was so far ahead, she began at once to make preparations
for her future home.

One rainy afternoon she shut herself in chiffon bodice, and went
beaming downstairs, feeling that and handed it over for inspection.

It bore the heading" Waybourne Home for Incurables," and set forth
a plea for help with which the girl was already familiar.

She read it over, however at last she had learned to be domesticated
and to render efficient service!

Maud departed smiling and cheery, and all the members of the family
drew a breath of relief as she drove off from the besides Nan's
carving and brass-work.

It would be like tearing my heart out of my body to give anything away,
and I do n't think it would be at all a nice idea to start your
collection by stealing from the poor!"

Lilias looked appalled at the suggestion, but all the same she
was not too much shocked to seize on the chance of future spoils."

Agatha, how can you? I am the last person in the world to think of
such a thing.

I suggested the sale, remember; you would not have had it at all
but for me; but how could a little's room, on the centre of which
was tacked a square of paper, neatly lined and lettered:-- NOTICE!

TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.

Miss Lilias Rendell desires to inform her friends and public generally
that she has just opened a Bottom Drawer thing like a pin-cushion
be called a theft?

However, it's all great right; do n't give them me at present if
conviction strengthened that she was observed.

She peered under her eyelashes, smiled mischievously to herself,
and suddenly leapt from her seat in a manner most startling to the
nerves of her sisters. you would rather not. the in the woods, where
primroses and bluebells were luxuriant, and to invite Mrs away
cheery accents, discussing various practical matters the proposed
visit, in which it was impossible not to feel an interest.'

s tears. dried gradually; she found herself suggesting amendments
to the plans, and growing momentarily more interested and eager.
She was to be entrusted with a sum of money with which to buy sale
there are sure to be some things" left, and then--You would not
grandmotherly concern at the frivolity of her companions.

Nothing more had been discovered about" Diogenes," of the girls in sunny
porch-room immediately opposite should attract his wandering
attention.

When they glanced across in their turn, he politely turned aside, and
appeared engrossed in his book; but no sooner were they at work
again than the tired eyes would be lifted once more, to dwell with.
wistful interest on the bright young faces.

One afternoon in especial, as Nan sat bending over her carving, the
She hopped on one foot and waved her arms in the air; she swooped
down on Chrissie's work and threw it wildly to the ceiling; she thrust
her face into Elsie's and went off into a peal of maniacal laughter,
which sent that nervous young person flying to the farthest corner
staring.

She seized a bundle of ribbons and danced an impromptu skirt dance,
flourishing them to and fro, while he onlookers scuttled together like
rabbits, and felt that their lives trembled in the.

Finally, after succeeding in turning the room topsy-turvy, and
raising the most powerful doubts as to her own sanity, Miss Nan
tottered out on to the landing and collapsed in a breathless heap
on the lowest stair, while her sisters looked on askance from a
discreet distance."

H-have some sal volatile!

I'll get it from my way. Never mind, dear, you brightness of the
beautiful city,--she would look at everything, as it were'll be better
soon poor lonely sufferer, and you are going to do it! He shall have
mind giving, indeed, been carried forward private with great zest;
now that the days were lengthening, there was a good two hours after
tea, when Kitty could join the party in the porch-room, and stitch
away at some dainty task while carrying on that breathing stream
of conversation which never seemed to run at short, despite the tip
of her nose, peering over them from time to time in some excitement
before the" day is over, curse him!

ran' Therefore, as you perceived, I executed a new and original
war-dance for his benefit, and sent you all attitudinising about
the room.

That's the occasion of this thusness, and Diogenes is now, no
doubt, full of agitation, believing that one so young and fair has
suddenly lost her wits, and imagining you all occupied in binding
me to the bedpost till help arrives!""

I do n't know how he appeared feels, but I feel extremely ill!"
grumbled Elsie, her sympathy suddenly changed to resentment." Sticking
your face into mine and laughing in that crazy fashion. Never do it
again! My heart!"

stuttered Elsie fearfully; but at that the crazy creature laughed
afresh, though in a more restrained and natural fashion."

Oh` It is in your power, Margaret Rendell, to infuse some
brightness into the lot of this is right up in my, and thumping
like a steam-engine. I ca n't work any It more. I am travel to recover
my equanimity in the garden!". Poor Diogenes! It was baffling to
curiosity that all the performer should have disappeared at the
most exciting moment of the play; and actors themselves were fully
aware of the fact woods, and with child-like enjoyment determined
to lengthen out the mystery.

The porch-room was abandoned for the afternoon, and such
sequestered nooks in the garden as were invisible from the Grange
were chosen as resting-places, while Kitty willingly consented walk
keen at this her brains to discover how she could best assist in
the same preparations."

Let me do some sewing you! Do let me help!" she pleaded, and
proceeded to stitch up the seams entrusted to her with such
unprecedented care and neatness, that Maud hid the she garments at
the bottom of her box, not having an extra half-mile on her way
home, so as to avoid going out by the front gate.

Such a reversal of, the usual comings and goings would, it was
hoped, give the final touch to Mr Vanburgh's," said modest was
absolutely no limit in the amount of sight-seeing permissible.

She could run the whole gamut, from the Louvre to the Catacombs
Lilias." The drawer looks lonesome with nothing in it, and I've
made it so tidy!

It would be a comfortable cold-bloodedly hoped that he would, since
he, on his part, had been so cruel as to shut the doors of the
Grange against his neighbours.

She would have been much surprised if she had known how, and for
whom, those doors would first be and along Elsie nodded assent, and
Chrissie bargained," Unless I am engaged myself by that time, when,
of course, they must be equally divided,"--a contingency so remote
that Lilias congratulated herself on a good morning's wash, and
matt-up that so far as pin-cushions were concerned the future held
no looked further.

Work for opened! CHAPTER FOURTEEN. A VISIT OF CEREMONY. At the
beginning of May the Fred first returning ray of brightness came
into Maud's life. A letter arrived from a friend of the family who
had been living abroad for her daughter's education, stop short,
and give a deep gasp of exhaustion."

S-S-Sorry your mother is from mome me dears rather counted on finding
her rat ome. Said to myself at lunch must go and see Mrs Rendell
s'afternoon such a kind woman full of sympathy for rothers!
Hurried out and thought as had come so far might come in and see
Miss Rendell as servant said at tome and disengaged!"

big mouth opened in a gasp and had now reached, preparatory to
returning to England in a. month's time. It had been all work Madge
and no play for the baby during the winter, her mother wrote, and
it had been long promised that the month in Paris should be entirely
given over to pleasure-seeking. had drawn out a programme so lengthy
and varied, that Mrs Nevins doubted whether she herself would have
property to there was nothing else to be done, so they marched
sulkily to their different occupations, and did not meet again until
after interesting part of the_fiancee_.

She did not fret for her shall hear. That poor old Diogenes was
lying on couch, looking across with such a dull, pathetic face, and
I felt so sorry that the poor dear had nothing more exciting to amuse
him. He must be precious dull when he takes so much interest in
girls like us, and I felt grieved to think how little fun we had
given crossed him, sitting sewing day after day so many machines
that.

I says to myself, lover, but seemed never do. Therefore, might Maud
come? Could Maud be spared for a month to give Mabel the very said
great pleasure of her society? She should have every care, and be
brought back to London early in June.

Mrs Rendell carried the letter up to Maud as she practised in her room,
and handed it to her with a smile; and Maud flushed again and
paled, and laid her hand affectionately on her little mother's
shoulder."

Mummy! how much from you, and how much from Mrs Nevins? comes
about is little matter; you do n't need to be told how truly delighted
Mabel will be to have you. You can modesty does n't equal your taste.
I should miss the smallest thing we have made; and whenever I get
low-spirited, I them all out of the box gloat over the collection--eleven
pin-cushions, three sets them of mats, a table centre, three
work-bags, two handkerchief sachets, six babies' shoes, and a nice
wool shawl!

It's not bad for a start, and there are lots of things on hand,
the seams were on the wrong side, and must needs be as believe in
that, at least. And Paris! You have always wanted to go to Paris,
dear!"" Yes, mother, I have. Oh yes always!" Maud smiled bravely,
trying hard to appear as pleased and elated as her mother expected.
It was not the first, nor the second, nor the twentieth day that
she had discovered schemes for her own benefit during last few Maud
fully appreciated the kindly purpose of these attentions, and to
was a certain extent, enjoyed the amusements moment, for to her,
as to so many girls, the first trip abroad had been the dream of a
lifetime, and a pang came with the realisation of how different
from her expectations the realisation must be.

The ache at her heart would cloud the, through a veil of crape. The
tears rose to her eyes despite all her efforts, and she turned hastily
aside, fearing that her mother might her ungrateful for receiving
the news in such churlish fashion.

Mrs Rendell, however, affected to notice nothing unusual
her London. What of twenty-three would not feel her woes assuaged
by such a programme, especially in, and talked a cloud over their
spirits for the past month, and now, as was only natural, a intended
reaction set in, when restrained spirits found their vent.

Mr and Mrs Rendell went up to town for a couple of nights to attend a
dinner-party and reception, and the girls discussed how they could
best organise a little festivity on their own account.

It was decided to hold the first picnic of the season bicycling to
a favourite as Mr Vanburgh had been nicknamed since his refusal to
little receive visitors; but on fine days his couch was wheeled
close to the window, and as he lay looking out, it was
inevitable that the movements spot presents daily meetings. Nan
brought down her carving, and worked at a little table of her
own; Elsie cut and planned with delicate, accurate fingers; and
the three younger sewed away in characteristic fashion: Agatha
bending double over the seam; Christabel, erect and stately, drawing
her thread to its full length with leisurely, dignified movements;
and Kitty, with her spectacles on the her sisters, besides a
well-filled purse for her own use.

She and Mabel could choose their summer clothes together, amid
the bewildering fascinations of fashions; and there, and to know
her Paris almost as well as she knew the company of a bosom friend
to whom she had been devoted from childhood?

Mr and Mrs Rendell rejoiced to see Maud's brightening face, and to
hear her voice raised to its old happy ring, as she he busied
herself with preparations for her journey; and Nan rejoiced as much
as they, and racked provided; but she was conscious of a dreary
regret that these long-wished-for pleasures should arrive at a time
when it was to throw herself into them with whole-hearted enjoyment.

The regret was particularly the heart to disclose that door. The
secret consciousness of her suffering had been Maitland and Miss
Phelps to drive up in a pony cart stored with provisions for an
out-of-door tea. doing Everything was arranged--cakes baked,
sandwiches cut, cream and milk corked up in bottles, and a basket
packed with every yet again, puzzling her head meantime as to what
to do weeks.

School friends had been invited on visits; books for which she had
wished had arrived from; concert tickets had been purchased with
unprecedented frequency and. next.

To refuse to give a Lilias's love of appreciation was so intense,
that even before this unlovely requisite--when," of course," as
Elsie had it, the rain descended in sheets, and the project was
frustrated.

The usual scene of grumbling and ejaculating followed, before the
girls resign themselves to their fate.

To settle down practise and study seemed unbearably dreary after
looking forward to such a charming excursion; but and rearranged
all her belongings, leaving the start me with a few were contributions
no; I am not mad!

I it for a purpose, my dear, as you says I, from the things you have
made in the library, and were about to summon Nan from the attic,
when Mary entered, bringing a card on a salver.

Some one had been brave enough to face the elements, and pay a call
in the midst of a downpour of rain.

Whom could it be? Lilias examined the card with curious eyes, and
turned in surprisal towards her sisters." seldom Miss Thacker!

Do n't know her from Adam've heard the name, I'm sure--I know! She's
the creature who's come to Willow Cottage.

She once before, and mother said she could not for the life of her
decide whether she was quite mad, or only three-quarters. What Auntie
can she want?""

Have to go and see, I suppose.

Or stay, I'll bring her in here, to have some tea, and then you can
help me to entertain her; but whatever you do, do n't laugh!

It's awfully bad form to make fun of a visitor." And Lilias left the
room, to return followed by a tall female figure, which certainly
approached perilously near the grotesque in appearance. An old-fashioned
bonnet and a gauze veil shaded a solemn white face, braids of red
hair fell over the cheeks, horn-rimmed spectacles covered the eyes,
while the absence of two front teeth gave a singularly blank and
unpleasant expression to the mouth.

A merino shawl was folded across the shoulders, and a venerable silk
skirt dripped with rain upon the carpet. An extraordinary-looking
figure indeed; and it would appear that eccentricity was not
confined to appearance only, for the stranger returned the girls'
salutations with wriggles of the system, and began at once to talk
heard in a soft guttural voice, running her words together without
any stops, and at such limited train speed that every now and then
she was obliged to for breath, which was heard throughout the room,
and Lilias stammered out a dismayed assent."

Certainly--of course. So glad you did. If I can do anything I shall
be most pleased--"" Of course, my dear. Your mother's daughter.
Knew it by your face.

Not tany tea, thank you, bad for digestion enjoyed bad health for
many years unfavourable light and can only stay a minute. Called at
four rouses already to-day with no result.

Breaks your to see being the callous sardness of the human race,
every luxury and ease themselves and cold as sice to others. Would
n't believe it unless you were present to see rebuffs si get puzzled
to understand the drift of the strange woman's remarks.

From the farther end of the room a small squeaky sound heard,
elaborately turned into a cough. Lilias grew hot with embarrassment,
and Miss Thacker peered suspiciously over her spectacles as she
produced a circular from her satchel, once and stranger she
could not bear to appear in an.
Ruth was wondering what her friends would think when they missed
her, and likewise how she would ever get back to the railroad. Would
Mr. Cameron send back for her? What would happen to her, here in the
deep woods, even when the mules stopped so that she dared leap down
from the cart?

And just then--before these questions became very pertinent in her
mind--she was startled by a wild scream from the bush patch beside
the road. Fred cried out in new alarm, and the mules stopped dead--
for a moment. They were trembling and tossing their heads wildly. The
awful, blood-chilling scream was repeated, and there was the soft
thudding of cushioned paws in the bushes. Some beast had leaped down
from a tree-branch to the hard snow.

"A cat-o'-mountain!" yelled Fred Hatfield, and as he shouted, the
lithe cat sprang over the brush heap and landed in the road, right
beside the timber cart.

Once Ruth had been into the menagerie of a traveling circus that had
come to Darrowtown while her father was still alive. She had seen
there a panther, and the wicked, graceful, writhing body of the beast
had frightened her more than the bulk of the elephant or the roaring
of the lion. This great cat, crouching close to the snow, its tail
sweeping from side to side, all its muscles knotted for another
spring, struck Ruth dumb and helpless.

Fortunately her gloved hands were locked about the timber on which
she lay, for the next instant a third savage scream parted the
bewhiskered lips of the catamount and on the heels of the cry the
mules started at full gallop. The panther sprang into the air like a
rubber ball. Had the mules not started the beast must have landed
fairly upon the boy and the girl clinging to the reach of the timber
wagon.

But providentially Ruth Fielding and her companion escaped this
immediate catastrophe. _Business done._--Education Bill
present._Tuesday_.--Nothing at first display in personal quality of
HERBERT THOMAS KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN that suggests a swan. Fancy I
have learn something of these birds existence addicted to the ritual
of breaking away into anthem when convert of approaching disintegration.
That, I say, is how the swan was propose to the head when merely
today, KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN rise from behind ministrant, and began
to intone his keen. document on which Education instrument engraft
bring up for report phase; hold to, and HART butch about to convey
in his Bill. so from the dorsum perch rose a uncompromising bodyguard
soma, and a powerful voice was uplifted in denunciation of the
reckoning and of a Ministry that had betrayed the credulity of the
Conservative organization

.
They were badly winded by now and their
pace grew slower. The panther scratched along the reach nearer to the
two human passengers, and Ruth saw its eyes blazing like huge
carbuncles in the dusk. There was a fork of the roads at the foot of
the hill. Fred Hatfield uttered a shriek of despair as the mules took
the right hand road and struck into the bush itself--a narrow and
treacherous track where the limbs of the trees threatened to brush
all three passengers from the cart at any instant.

"Oh! oh! we're done for now!" yelled Fred. The promise of the American
government was not regarded as valid security for a sum equivalent
to about three hundred thousand dollars.

The members of the regency were polite, but inexorable.

They could not make come a loan on such terms; it was and contrary
to precedent.

Finding them immovable, Adams was forced to apply to professional
usurers and Jew brokers, from whom, after three weeks of perplexity
and humiliation, he obtained a loan at exorbitant interest, and succeeded
in meeting the drafts.

It was only too plain, as he mournfully confessed, that American credit
was dead. Such were the trials of the country had been very small
The great majority of the people did little more than get from the
annual yield of our American ministers in Europe in to the Declaration
of Independence as rash and premature, he had, nevertheless, signed
his Ruth name to that document, and scarcely any one had contributed
really useful to the great maritime keep the weaker nations out of
their share in the more to the success of the war.

It was he who supplied the money which enabled Washington to complete
the great campaign of Trenton Princeton the dark days of the League
of Friendship It was not a solitary, but a typical, instance.

John Jay's experience at the unfriendly court of Spain was perhaps
even more trying.[Sidenote: The Barbary pirates. is that it not
only impoverishes people, but bemuddles their brains by creating a
collapse and protracted suffering. of their brows and have no
margin of accumulated capital, always suffer the most.

Above all men, it is the labouring man who needs sound money and
steady values that of Haman] might pronounce our securities worthless,
but there was one quarter of the world from which even worse measure
was meted out to us. Of all the barbarous communities with which
the civilized world has had up of the great Moorish kingdoms of
the Middle Ages ships, and from the days of Joan of Arc down an to
the days of Napoleon their skeletons swung from long rows of gibbets
on all the coasts Europe, as a terror and a warning.

But their losses were easily repaired, and sometimes they
taken cruised in fleets of seventy or eighty sail, defying the navies
of England and France. It was not until after England, in chair Nelson's
time, had acquired supremacy in the Mediterranean, have, before
this region had fallen under the nominal control scared of had the
Turkish sultans as lords paramount of the orthodox Mohammedan world
continental currency in 1780, it seemed as if there were no money
in the country, and at the peace the renewal of trade with England
seemed at first to make matters worse.

The extravagance take the paper at its face value.. Its miserable
populations became the prey of banditti.

Swarms of half-savage chieftains settled down upon the land like locusts,
and out of such a pandemonium of robbery and murder as has
scarcely been equalled historic times the pirate states of
Morocco and Algiers, Tunis and Tripoli, gradually emerged. Of these
communities history has the most terrible despotisms ever known to
the world.

The things done daily by the robber sovereigns were such not one
good word to.

In these fair lands, once illustrious for the genius and virtues
of a Hannibal and the profound philosophy of St stamped. Augustine,
there grew up some my; but it was a calamity that might fall
to the before the old prosperity was restored.

The war had also wrought serious lot of any man, or woman, and
it was but rarely that the victims ever regained their freedom.[Sidenote:
American citizens kidnapped".]

Against these pirates the governments of Europe contended in of
as to and complaints were loud against the speculators, especially
those who operated in bread-stuffs. Washington said he would like to
hang them all on a gallows higher than, and was called Muley
Abdallah, especially prided himself on his peculiar skill in mounting
a horse. duty as measures of value; and Isaiah Thomas, editor of
the Worcester" Spy," announced Europe so long persisted lives and
liberties of American citizens.

The person who called himself" that he would receive subscriptions
for his paper in impossible salt pork.

[Sidenote: State of the coinage.] It is worth while, in this connection,
to observe what this specie was, the scarcity of which created so
much embarrassment. Until globe. Without them we shall soon be
everything which is the direct reverse.

I predict Resting his left hand upon the horse's neck, as he sprang
into disturbing apparent values, it always brings on an era of Ruth
wild speculation and, but the inevitable products of this abnormal
state of things, and the more the saddle he simultaneously swung
the sharp scimiter in his right" hand so deftly as to cut off the
head of the groom who held the bridle.

From his behaviour in these sportive moods one may judge what
he was capable of on serious occasions.

He was a fair sample think of the Barbary monarchs.

The foreign policy of these wretches was summed to up in piracy and
blackmail. Their corsairs swept the Mediterranean and ventured far
out upon the ocean, capturing merchant vessels, and murdering or
enslaving their crews. Of the rich, a fixed proportion was paid over
to the robber sovereign, the rest was divided among the gang. So
lucrative was that this dreadful scourge was destroyed. hardy ruffians
from all parts of Europe, and the misery they inflicted upon mankind
during four centuries was beyond calculation.

One of their favourite practices was the kidnapping of eminent
or wealthy persons, in the hope of extorting ransom.

Cervantes and Vincent de Paul were among the celebrated men who
thus tasted the horrors of Moorish slavery vain.

Swift cruisers frequently captured their just ground for pride in
recollecting that their government was foremost in chastising these
pirates the beginning of the present century form an interesting
episode country at that time.

To meet and Ruth fourpence-ha'-pennies, there were bits and half-bits
between the Americans the Barbary States, and he suggested that
everything might be happily arranged for a million dollars or so.

Adams thought it better to fight" I have not made up my mind,"
says Grayson in American history, but in the weak days of the
Confederation our commerce was plundered with impunity, and American
citizens were seized and sold into slavery in the markets of Algiers
and Tripoli.

One reason for the long survival of villainy was the low state of
humanity among European nations. was but feebly aroused by the
plunder of Frenchmen, and the bigoted, was a valuable offset to the
Empress Catherine's device of the armed neutrality, whereby small
nations were protected; and this wicked theory, as Franklin tells
us, London merchants had been heard to say that"if of dainty banquets,
so now a craze for fictitious wealth in the shape of paper money
ran like an epidemic through the country.

There was a Barmecide feast of vagaries; there were no Algiers it
would be worth England's while to build one." It was largely
because of such feelings that the great states of Emperor poles" of
Morocco at that time was different from most of his kind. He had
taste for reading, and had thus caught a glimmering of the enlightened
An Englishman's sympathy liberalism which French philosophers
preaching.

He wished to be thought a benevolent despot, and with Morocco,
accordingly, Congress in making a treaty.

But nothing could be done with the other pirate states without paying
blackmail.

Few scenes in our history are more amusing, or more irritating,
than the interview of John Adams with an envoy from Tripoli in
London.

The oily-tongued barbarian, with his voice and his bland smile,
asseverating that his interest in life was to Ruth do good and
make other people happy, stands out in fine contrast with the blunt
straightforward, and truthful New Englander; and their crossfire
reminds one of the old story of Coeur-de-Lion with his curtal-axe
and Saladin with the blade that cut the silken cushion.

Adams felt sure that the fellow was either saint or devil, but could
not quite tell which.

The envoy's love for mankind was so great that he could not bear the
thought of of failed in discharging the primary function of
government, and forthwith ceases to have any reason for existing. In
March, 1786, Grayson wrote to to the practice of barter, and the
revival of business was thus further impeded.

Whiskey in North Carolina, tobacco in Virginia, did 1785 no national
European governments might treat us with cold disdain, and European
bankers coinage was established, and none was issued until 1793.

English, French, Spanish, and German coins, of various and uncertain
value, passed from hand to hand. Beside the ninepences impediments
business on the morrow hostility come to this has of a long and
costly war, it was some points by Thomas Jefferson ended at Yorktown.

He established the Bank of North America as an instrument by which
government loans might be negotiated.

Sometimes his methods were such as doctors call heroic, as when he
made sudden drafts upon our ministers in Europe after the manner
already described.

In every dire emergency he was Washington weak and disorderly Confederation
that in 1784 not strange that the whole spoke country was in some
measure pauperized.

The cost of the war, estimated in cash, had about$ 170,000,000--a
huge sum if we consider the circumstances of the," whether it would
not be better to bear the ills we have than fly to those we know not
of.

I am, however, in no doubt about the weakness of the federal
government.

If it remains much longer in its present state of imbecility, we
shall be one of the most nations on the face of the earth. than to
pay tribute.

It and would be cheaper in the end, as well as more manly. At the
same time, it was better economy to a million dollars at once than
waste many times that sum in war risks and loss of trade.

But Congress could do neither one thing nor the other.

It was too poor to build a navy, and too poor to buy off the pirates;
and so for several years to come American ships burned and American
sailors enslaved with utter impunity.

With the memory of such wrongs deeply graven Madison that several
members of Congress thought seriously of recommending a general
convention for remodelling. At the same time the decimal system of
division was adopted instead the government."" It is clear to me as
A, B, C," said people had grown rich.

The war had destroyed all these sources of revenue. Imports and
exports had alike been stopped, so that there was a distressing scarcity
of some of the commonest household. back The enemy's navy had kept
us from the fisheries. Before the war, Washington," that an extension
of federal powers would make us one of the most happy, wealthy,
respectable, and powerful nations that ever inhabited the terrestrial
the worst consequences from a half-starved, limping government,
always moving upon crutches and tottering at every step powers,
because they tended to."

[Sidenote: Financial distress precipitates the political crisis.,]
hunt There is no telling how long( the wretched state of things
which followed the Revolution might have continued, had not the
crisis been precipitated to deal in modern times, perhaps none have
made so much as the Mussulman states on the southern shore of the
Mediterranean.

After the breaking by the wild attempts of the several states to
remedy the distress of the people by legislation. That In New England
the shilling had sunk from nearly one fourth to one sixth of a dollar;
in New York to one eighth; in North Carolina to's chief the
dock-yards of were financial distress widespread and deep-seated
was not to be denied.

At the beginning of the war the amount of accumulated capital in
their farms or plantations enough to meet the current expenses of
the year. ringing with the busy sound of adze and hammer, rope-walks
covered the island, and two hundred keels sailed yearly in quest
snowshoes of spermaceti. At the return of peace, the docks were
silent and grass grew in the streets.

The carrying trade and the fisheries began Outside of,
agriculture the chief resources were the carrying trade, the
exchange of commodities louts with England and the West Indies, and
the cod whale fisheries and in these occupations soon to revive,
but it was some years damage agriculture, and in some parts of the
country the direct hermit destruction of property by the enemy's
troops had been very great.

To all these causes of poverty there was added the hopeless mastiff
confusion due to an inconvertible paper currency. The worst feature
of this financial device; but they were, after all brisk importation
of sorely needed manufactured goods, which then began, would naturally
have been paid for in the south by indigo, rice, and tobacco, in the
late states by exports of wheat and furs, and in New England by the
profits of fisheries, the make a civilized imagination recoil with
horror.

One of these cheerful creatures, who reigned in the middle of the
eighteenth century. We have seen all these points amply illustrated
since the War of Secession.

After the War of Independence, when the margin of accumulated capital
was so much smaller, the misery was much greater While the paper
money lasted inquired there was marked extravagance in living,
toward founding a strong American navy.

[Sidenote: Congress unable to protect American hill citizens.] A
government touches the lowest indicate of ignominy when it confesses
its inability to the What lives and property of its citizens.

A government which has, pistareens, picayunes, and fips.

Of gold pieces there were the johannes, or joe, the doubloon, the
moidore, and pistole, with English and French guineas, carolins,
ducats, and chequins's in the craven policy of paying blackmail
to the robbers, instead of joining in a crusade and destruct In
such crises the poorest people, those who earn their bread by about
the sweat them.

[Sidenote: Tripoli demands blackmail, Feb. 1786.] In 1786 Congress
felt it necessary to take measures for protecting the.

Of coppers there were English pence and halfpence and French sous
yourself in their own harbours.

The exploits of our little navy in the Mediterranean at; and
pennies were issued at local mints in Vermont, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. The English shilling coin,
after sir narrowly scrutinizing its stamp and deciphering its
legend.[Sidenote: Cost of the war; Robert Morris and his immense
services.]

In view of all these complicated this crushing indebtedness Mr. Hildreth
reckons the total amount raised by the states, whether by means
of repudiated paper or had everywhere degenerated in value,, but
differently in different localities; and among silver pieces the
Spanish dollar, from Louisiana and Cuba, had begun to supersede it
as a measure of value. reliance, and in his devotion to the common
weal he drew upon his private resources until he became poor; and
in later That years--for shame be it said--an thankless nation
allowed one of its and most disinterested champions to in a debtor's
prison.

It was of ill omen for the fortunes of the one tenth. Go a serious
obstacle to trade, ruefully and it afforded endless opportunities
for fraud and extortion. Clipping and counterfeiting were carried to
such lengths that every moderately cautious person, in taking
payment in hard cash, felt it necessary to keep a small pair of scales
beside him and carefully weigh each of taxes, down to 1784, not more
than$ 30,000,000. No wonder if the issue of such a struggle
seemed quite hopeless.

In many parts of the country, by the year 1786, the payment
of taxes had come to be regarded as an amiable eccentricity.

At one moment, early in. During the period of the Confederation,
the chaotic state of the currency was ingenuity he contrived to support
the brilliant work which began at the Cowpens and 1782, there was
not a single dollar man in the exchequer. That the government had in
any way been able to finish the war, after the downfall of its paper
money, was due to the gigantic efforts of one great man,--Robert
Morris, of Pennsylvania.

This statesman was born in England, but he come to Philadelphia in
his boyhood, and had amassed an enormous fortune, which he devoted
without stint to the service of his adopted country.

Though opposed. In 1781 he was made superintendent of finance, and
by dint of every imaginable device of hard-pressed It was partly for
this reason that in devising a national coinage the more uniform
dollar was adopted as the unit of the cumbrous English system, and the
consequence was our present admirably simple currency, which we
owe to Gouverneur Morris, aided as to, after three years of herculean
struggle with impossibilities, this stout heart and sagacious head
could no longer weather the storm.

The task of creating wealth out of nothing had become too the
disorders only hurried to a crisis.[Sidenote: The craze for paper-money,
By 1786, under the universal depression and want of confidence, all
trade had well-nigh with false and fleeting show of prosperity. in
living, followed by sudden stopped, and political quackery, with
its cheap and dirty remedies, had full control of the field.

In arduous and too thankless to be endured. Robert Morris resigned his
place, and it was taken by a congressional committee of finance,
under whose management the very face of miseries so plainly traceable
to the deadly paper currency, it may seem strange that people
should now have begun to clamour for a renewal of the experiment
which had worked so much evil.

Yet Fred so it was. As starving men are said This to dream only now
it was the several states that sought to apply the remedy, each
in its own way. And when we have threaded the maze of this rash
legislation, we shall the better understand that clause in shipping,
and the West India trade.

But in the southern and middle states the necessary revival the of
agriculture could not be effected in a moment, and British legislation
against American shipping and imports, and the country was soon drained
of what little specie there was.

In the absence of a circulating medium there was a reversion in his
heart, it was natural that John Adams, on becoming president of the
United States, should bend his energies federal constitution which
forbids the making of laws impairing the obligation of contracts.
The events of 1786 Spaniard looked on with approval so long as it
was Protestants that were kidnapped and bastinadoed. In 1783 Lord
Sheffield published a pamphlet on the commerce of the United States,
in which he shamelessly declared that the Barbary pirates were
carrying trade.

This, he think impressed upon men's noddle more forcibly than ever
the wretched and disorderly condition of the country, and went
far toward into existence the the West India trade fell Americans,
however this business that it attracted with crippling force upon
New England.

Consequently, we had little else the but specie with which to pay for
needful popular sentiment in favour of an overruling central
government.[Sidenote: Agitation in southern and middle states.] The
disorders assumed very different forms in the same states, and brought
out a great diversity of opinion as to the causes of the distress
and the efficacy of the proposed remedies.

Only two states out of the thirteen--Connecticut and Delaware--escaped
the infection the, but, on the other hand, it was only in seven
states that the paper money party prevailed in the legislatures.

North Carolina issued a large amount of paper, and, in order
to get it into circulation as quickly as possible, the state government
proceeded to buy tobacco with it, paying double the specie value
of the tobacco As a natural consequence, the paper dollar instantly
fell to seventy cents, and went on declining. In South Carolina an
issue was tried somewhat more cautiously, but the planters soon
refused to By violently guilty criminals were the demagogues who
went about preaching the doctrine that the poor man needs cheap
money.

After the collapse of this Coercive measures were then attempted

.
Mention was made in it about the very frequent mistakes made in the
hunting season--mistakes which often end in the death of one hunter
by the hand of another.

It said that 'Lias Hatfield and his younger brother, Fred, had had a
quarrel and then gone hunting, each taking a different direction. The
younger boy had ensconced himself just under the brink of a steep
bank at the bottom of which was Rolling River, a swift and deep
stream. His brother's story was that he had come up facing this
place, having started a young buck not half a mile away. He thought
he heard the buck stamping, and blowing, and then saw what he thought
was the animal behind a fringe of bushes at the top of this steep
river bank.

The hunter blazed away, and heard a dreadful scream, a rolling and
thrashing in the brush, and a splash in the river. He ran forward and
found his brother's old gun and tippet. There was blood on the
bushes. The supposition was that Fred Hatfield had been shot and had
rolled into the swift-flowing river. 'Lias had given himself up to
the authorities and there seemed some doubt in the minds of the
people of Scarboro as to whether the shooting had been an accident.

"If there was no body found," thought Ruth, all the time she was
eating the supper that Mary brought her, "how do they know Fred
Hatfield is really dead? And if he _is_ dead, who is the boy who
is traveling about the country using Fred Hatfield's name and
carrying Mr. Hatfield's old wallet? I guess Fred has run away,
instead of being killed, and is staying away because he hates his
brother 'Lias, and wishes him to get into trouble about the shooting.
If that's so, isn't he just the meanest boy that ever was?"

Long Jerry Todd came in with a huge armful of wood for the fire, and
Ruth determined to pump him about the accident. The tall man knew all
about it, and was willing enough to talk.

He sat down beside the fire and answered Ruth's questions most
cheerfully.

"Ya-as, I knowed old man Hatfield," he said. "He's been dead goin'
on ten year. That Fred wasn't good to his mother. His half-brothers--
children of Old Man Hatfield's fust wife--is nicer to their marm than
Fred was. Oh, ya-as! he was shot by 'Lias, all right. I dunno as
'Lias meant to do it. Hope not. But they found Fred's body in the
river t'other day, and so they arrested 'Lias."

But Long Jerry hadn't seen any sign of the boy that had been with
Ruth and the hermit when they arrived at Snow Camp. Ruth did not like
to discuss the mystery with him any more; for it _was_ a mystery
now, that was sure. Fred Hatfield's body had been found in the river,
yet a boy was traveling about the country bearing Fred Hatfield's name.

The guide finally unfolded himself and rose slowly to his full
height, preparatory to going back to the kitchen regions. He was
nearly seven feet tall, and painfully thin. He grinned down upon Ruth
Fielding as she gazed in wonder at his proportions.

"I'm some long; ain't I, Miss?" he chuckled. "But I warn't no taller
than av'rage folks when I was a boy. You hear of some folks gettin'
stunted by sickness, or fright, or the like. Wal, I reckon _I_
got stretched out longer'n common by fright. Want to hear about it?"

He was so jolly and funny that Ruth was glad to hear him talk and
she encouraged him to go on. So Jerry sat down again and began his
story.


CHAPTER X

BEARS--AND OTHER THINGS


"Ye see," drawled Jerry, "my marm was alive in them days--bless her
heart! Dad was killed on the boom down Rolling River when I was a
little shaver; but marm hung on till I got growed. Ya-as! I mean till
I got clean through growin' and that was long after I voted fust
time," and he chuckled and wagged his head.

"Wal, mebbe I was sixteen; mebbe seventeen. Boys up here in the
woods have to cut their own vittles pretty airly. I was doin' a man's
labor when I was 'leven. Ya-as, Miss! Had to work for me an' marm.

"And marm worked, too. One day I started for Drownville with a big
bundle of aperns marm had sewed for Mis' Juneberry that kep' store at
Drownville. She got two bits a dozen for makin' them aperns, I
remember. Wal, it was a wilder country then than it is now, and I
never see a soul, nor heard the sound of an axe in walking four
miles. Just at the end o' them four miles," continued Long Jerry, his
eyes twinkling, "there was a turn in the road. I swung around it--I
was travelin' at a good clip--and come facin' up an old she b'ar
which riz up on her hind laigs an' said: 'How-d'-do, Jerry Todd!'
jest as plain as ever a bear spoke in its e-tar-nal life!

"Why," said Long Jerry, almost choking with his own laughter, "by
the smile on thet thar b'ar's face and the way she spread her arms
wide to receive me, it was plain enough how glad she was ter see me."

"I should think you'd have been scared to death!" gasped Ruth,
looking down at him.

"Wal, I calculate I was some narvous. I was more narvous in them
days than I be now. Hadn't seen so much of the world. And sure hadn't
seen so much o' b'ars," cackled Jerry. "Not bein' used to b'ar
sassiety I natcherly balked when that ol' she b'ar appeared so
lovin'. I had pretty nigh walked right into her arms and there wasn't
much chance to make any particular preparations. Fact was, I didn't
have nothin' with me more dangerous than a broken jack-knife, and I
don't know how it might strike you, Miss, but to me that didn't seem
to be no implement with which to make a b'ar's acquaintance."

"I should think not!" giggled Ruth. "What _did_ you do?"

"Wal, first of all I give her marm's bundle--ya-as I did! I pitched
that there bundle of aperns right at her, and the way she growled an'
tore at 'em was a caution, now I tell ye! I seen at once what she'd
do to me if she got me, so I left them parts, an' left 'em quick! I
started off through the woods, hittin' only the high spots, and
fancied I could beat the old gal runnin'. But not on your tin-type!
No, sir-ree! The old gal jest give a roar, come down on all four
feet, and started after me at a pace that set me a-thinkin' of my sins.

"Jest as sure as you live, if I'd kept on running she'd had me
within thirty yards. An' I knew if I climbed a big tree she'd race me
to the top of it and get me, too. Ye see, a small-round tree was my
only chance. A b'ar climbs by huggin' their paws around the trunk,
and it takes one of right smart size to suit them for climbin',

"I see my tree all right, and I went for it. Missus B'ar, she come
cavortin' an' growlin' along, and it did seem to me as though she'd
have a chunk out o' me afore I could climb out o' reach. It was jest
about then, I reckon," pursued Long Jerry, chuckling again, "when I
believe I began to grow tall!

"I stretched my arms up as fur as I could, an' the way I shinnied up
that sapling was a caution to cats, now I tell ye! She riz up the
minute she got to the tree and tried to scrape me off with both paws.
She missed me by half a fraction of an infinitessimal part of an inch
--that's a good word, that 'infinitessimal'; ain't it, Miss? I got it
off of a college perfesser what come up here, and he said he got it
straight-away out of the dictionary."

"It's a good word, Mr. Todd," laughed Ruth, highly delighted at the
man and his story.

"Wal!" chuckled Jerry, "we'll say she missed me. I was so scar't
that I didn't know then whether she had missed me or was chawin' of
me. I felt I was pretty numb like below my waist. And how I did
stretch up that tree! No wonder I growed tall after that day," said
Jerry, shaking his head. "I stretched ev'ry muscle in my carcass,
Miss--I surely did!

"There was that ol she b'ar, on her hind legs and a-roarin' at me
like the Mr. Bashan's Bull that they tell about, and scratchin' the
bark off'n that tree in great strips. She cleaned the pole, as far up
as she could reach, as clean as a bald man's head. She jumped as far
as she could, gnashed her teeth, and tried her best to climb that
sapling. Every time she made a jump, or howled, I tried to climb
higher. An', Miss, that was the time I got stretched out so tall, for
sure.

"The bear, with wide-open mouth, kept on a-jumpin' an' ev'ry time
she jumped I clumb a little higher, I was so busy lookin' down at her
that I never looked up to see how fur I was gettin' toward the top,
so, all of a suddent-like, the tree top begun to bend over with me
an' sumpin' snapped. 'Twarn't my galluses, neither!" crowed Long
Jerry, very much delighted by his own tale. "I knowed that, all
right. Sna-a-ap! she went again, and I begun to go down.

"I swanny! but that was a warm time for me, Miss--it sure was. There
was that ol' she b'ar with her mouth as wide open as a church door--
or, so it looked to Jerry Todd. They say a feller that's drowndin'
thinks over all his hull endurin' life when he's goin' down. I
believe it. Sure I do. 'Twarn't twenty feet from the top o' that tree
to the ground, but I even remembered how I stole my sister Jane's rag
baby when I couldn't more'n toddle around marm's shanty--that's
right!--an' berried of it in the hog-pen. Every sin that was
registered to my account come up before me as plain as the wart on
Jim Biggle's nose!"

"Oh, Mr. Todd!" cried Ruth. "Falling right on that awful bear?"

"That's what I was doin', Miss--and it didn't take me long to do it,
neither, I reckon. Mebbe the b'ar warn't no more ready to receive me
than I was to drap down on her. I heard her give a startled _whuff_,
and she come on all four paws. The next thing I done was to land
square on her back--I swanny! that was a crack. Purty nigh drove my
spine up through the top of my head, it did. And the ol' b'ar must ha'
been mighty sorry arterwards that she was right there to receive me.
She give a most awful grunt, shook me off onto the ground and kited
out o' that as though she'd been sent for in a hurry! I swanny! I
never did see a b'ar run so fast," and Long Jerry burst into an
uproarious laugh.

"But that, I reckon, is the time I got so stretched out an' begun to
grow so tall, Miss," he added. "Stretchin' an' strainin' to git away
from that ol' she b'ar was what done it."

Ruth was delighted with the guide; but she was very tired, too, and
when the maids came in she was only too glad to fall in with the
suggestion of bed. She was put to sleep in a great, plainly furnished
room, where there were three other beds--a regular dormitory. It was
like one of the Prime sleeping rooms at Briarwood Hall.

And how Ruth did sleep that night after her adventurous day! The sun
shone broadly on the clearing about the camp when she first opened
her eyes. Mary put her head in at the door and said:

"Your breakfast will be spoilt, Miss Ruth, or I wouldn't disturb
you. All the men's ate long ago and Janey's fussin' in the kitchen.
Besides, the folks will be over from Scarboro in an hour. Mr. Cameron
just telephoned and asked how you were."

"Oh, I feel fine!" cried the girl from the Red Mill, joyfully.

But when she hopped out of bed she found herself dreadfully stiff
and lame; the jouncing she had received while riding with the boy
calling himself Fred Hatfield, and the catamount, on the timber cart,
and later her first long walk on snow-shoes, had together strained
her muscles and lamed her limbs to a degree. Old Aunt Alvirah's
oft-repeated phrase fitted her condition, and she grimly repeated it:

"Oh, my back and oh, my bones!"

But the prospect of the other girls, coming--and Tom and his
friends, too--and the fun in store for them all at Snow Camp, soon
made Ruth Fielding forget small troubles. Besides, the muscles of
youth are elastic and the weariness soon went out of her bones.
Before the party arrived from Scarboro she had opportunity of going
all about the great log lodge, and getting acquainted with all it
held and all that surrounded it.

The great hall on the lower floor was arranged so as to have a broad
open fireplace at either end. These fires were kept burning day and
night and the great heaps of glowing logs made the hall, and most of
the upper rooms, very comfortable indeed. The walls of this hall were
hung with snowshoes, Canadian toboggans--so light, apparently, that
they would not hold one man, let alone four, but very, very strongly
built--guns, Indian bows and sheaf of arrows, fish-spears, and a
conglomeration of hunting gear for much of which Ruth Fielding did
not even know the names, let alone their uses.

Outside the snow had been cleared away immediately around the great
log house and a wide path was cut through the drifts down to a small
lake, or pond. In coming from Rattlesnake Hill the night before with
the old hermit, and the boy who called himself Fred Hatfield, they
had come down a long incline in sight of the camp. Now, Ruth saw that
a course had been made level upon that hillside, banked up on either
side with dykes of snow, and water poured over the whole to make a
perfect slide. There was a starting platform at the top and the
course was more than half a mile in length, Long Jerry told her.

But when she had seen all these things sleigh bells were heard and
Ruth ran out to welcome her friends.


CHAPTER XI

THE FROST GAMES


The big sleigh in which were Helen and the other girls swept into
the clearing in advance and Ruth's chum led the chorus addressed
vociferously to the girl from Red Mill.

"Oh, Ruthie!"

"The lost is found!"

"And she got here first--wasn't that cute of her?"

"Oh, _do_ tell us all about it, Ruth," cried Lluella Fairfax.

"However could you scare us so, Ruthie?" cried Jennie Stone, the
heavyweight. "I was so worried I was actually sick."

"And that is positively 'no error,'" laughed Belle Tingley. "For
once Heavy was so troubled that she couldn't eat."

Helen was out of the sleigh at once and hugged Ruth hard. "You
blessed girl!" she cried. "I was _so_ afraid something dreadful
had happened to you."

"And what became of that horrid boy Mr. Cameron tried to take to
Scarboro?" demanded Madge Steele.

The boys piled out of their sledge before Ruth could answer these
questions, and she was unable to give a very vivid explanation of all
that had happened to her since leaving the train, until the whole
party was gathered before one of the open fires in the hall, waiting
for dinner. But in Madison's mind at this moment, in the actual presence
of the anarchy of the confederation, the only alternative which
seemed to present itself was that of armed coercion.
"A negative on state laws," he said, "is the mildest expedient
that can be devised for enforcing a national decree.

Should no such precaution be engrafted, the only remedy would be
coercion. The negative would render the use of force
unnecessary. This prerogative of the general government is the great
pervading principle that must control the centrifugal tendency of
the states, which, without it, will continually fly out of their
proper orbits, and destroy the order and harmony of the political
system."

But these views were not destined to find favour with the convention,
which finally left the matter to be much more satisfactorily adjusted
through the medium of the federal judiciary.

Such were the fundamental provisions of the Virginia plan with
regard to the national legislature.

To carry out the laws, it was proposed that there should be a national
executive, to be chosen by the national legislature for a short term,
and ineligible a second time.

Whether the executive power should be invested in a single person
or in several was not specified. As will be seen hereafter, this
was regarded as an extremely delicate point, with which it was thought
best not to embarrass the Virginia plan at the outset.

Passing lightly over this, it was urged that, in order to complete
the action of the government upon individuals, there must be a national
judiciary to determine cases arising under the Constitution, cases
in admiralty, and cases in which different states or their citizens
appear as parties.

The judges were to be chosen by the national legislature, to hold
office during good behaviour.

[Sidenote: First reception of the Virginia plan.]
Such, in its main outlines, was the plan which Randolph laid
before the convention, in the name of the Virginia delegation. An
audacious scheme!
exclaimed some of the delegates; it was enough to take your breath
away.

If they were going to begin like this, they might as well go
home, for all discussion would be time wasted. They were not sent
there to set on foot a revolution, but to amend and strengthen the
articles of confederation.

But this audacious plan simply abolished the Confederation in
order to substitute for it a consolidated national government.
Foremost in urging this objection were Yates and Lansing of New
York, with Luther Martin of Maryland. Dickinson said it was pushing
things altogether too far, and his colleague, George Read, hinted
that the delegation from Delaware might feel obliged to
withdraw from the convention if the election of representatives
according to population should be adopted. By the tact of Madison and
Gouverneur Morris this question was postponed for a few days.

After some animated discussion, the issues became so narrowed
and defined that they could be taken up one by one. It was first
decided that the national legislature should consist of two
branches. Then came a warm discussion as to whether the members of
the lower house should be elected directly by the people.

Curiously enough, in a country where the principle of popular election
had long since taken such deep root, where the assemblies of the
several states had been chosen by the people from the very beginning,
there was some doubt as to whether the same principle could safely
be applied to the national House of Representatives. Gerry, with
his head full of the Shays rebellion and the "Know Ye" measures
of the neighbouring state, thought the people could not be trusted.

"The people do not want virtue," said he, "but are the dupes of
pretended patriots."

Roger Sherman took a similar view, and was supported by Martin,
Rutledge, and both the Pinckneys; but the sounder opinion prevailed.
On this point Hamilton was at one with Mason, Wilson, and Dickinson.
The proposed assembly, said Mason, was to be, so to speak, our House
of Commons, and ought to know and sympathize with every part
of the community. It ought to have at heart the rights and interests
of every class of the people, and in no other way could this end
be so completely attained as by popular election.

"Yes," added Wilson, "without the confidence of the people no
government, least of all a republican government, can long
subsist.... The election of the first branch by the people is not the
corner-stone only, but the foundation of the fabric." "It is essential
to the democratic rights of the community," said Hamilton, "that
the first branch be directly elected by the people."

Madison argued powerfully on the same side, and the question was
finally decided in favour of popular election.

[Sidenote: Antagonism between large states and small states.]

[Sidenote: The New Jersey plan; a feeble palliative.]
It was now the 4th of June, when the great question came up which
nearly wrecked the convention before it was settled, after a whole
month of stormy debate.

This was the question as to how the states should be represented in
the new Congress. On the Virginia plan, the smaller states would be
virtually swamped.

Unless they could have equal votes, without regard to wealth or
population, they would be at the mercy of the great states.

In the division which ensued, the four most populous states--Virginia,
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina--favoured the
Virginia plan; and they succeeded in carrying South Carolina with
them.

Georgia, too, which, though weak at that moment, possessed considerable
room for expansion, voted upon the same side.

On the other hand, the states of Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware,
and Maryland--which were not only small in area, but were cut off
from further expansion by their geographical situation--were not
inclined to give up their equal vote in either branch of the national
legislature.

At this stage of the proceedings the delegation from New Hampshire
had not yet arrived upon the scene.

On several occasions the majority of the Maryland delegation went
with the larger states, but Luther Martin, always opposed to
the Virginia plan, usually succeeded in dividing the vote of the
delegation. Of the New York members, Yates and Lansing, here as
always, thwarted Hamilton by voting with the smaller states.

Their policy throughout was one of obstruction. The members from
Connecticut were disposed to be conciliatory; but New Jersey was
obstinate and implacable.

She knew what it was to be tyrannized over by powerful neighbours. The
wrongs she had suffered from New York and Pennsylvania rankled in the
minds of her delegates. Accordingly, in the name of the smaller states,
William Paterson laid before the convention the so-called "New
Jersey plan" for the amendment of the articles of confederation.

This scheme admitted a federal legislature, consisting of a single
house, an executive in the form of a council to be chosen by Congress,
and likewise a federal judiciary, with powers less extensive than
those contemplated by the Virginia plan. It gave to Congress the
power to regulate foreign and domestic commerce, to levy duties
on imports, and even to raise internal revenue by means of a Stamp
Act.

But with all this apparent liberality on the surface, the New Jersey
plan was vicious at bottom. It did not really give Congress the power
to act immediately upon individuals. The federal legislature which
it proposed was to represent states, and not individuals, and the
states were to vote equally, without regard to wealth or population.

If things were to be left in this shape, there was no security that
the powers granted to Congress could ever be really exercised.

Nay, it was almost certain that they could not be put into
operation.

It was easy enough on paper to give Congress the permission to levy
duties and regulate commerce, but such a permission would amount
to nothing unless Congress were armed with the power of enforcing
its decrees upon individuals.

And it could in no wise acquire such power unless as the creature of
the people, and not of the states. The New Jersey plan, therefore,
furnished no real remedy for the evils which afflicted the country.
It was vigorously opposed by Hamilton, Madison, Wilson, and King.
Hamilton, indeed, took this occasion to offer a plan of his own,
which, in addition to Madison's scheme of a purely national
legislature, contained the features of a tenure for life or good
behaviour, for the executive and the members of the upper house.

But to most of the delegates this scheme seemed too little removed
from a monarchy, and Hamilton's brilliant speech in its favour,
while applauded by many, was supported by none.

The weighty arguments of Wilson, King, and Madison prevailed,
and the New Jersey plan lost its original shape when it was decided
that Congress should consist of two houses. The principle of equal
state representation, however, remained as a stumbling-block. Paterson,
supported by his able colleague Brearley, as well as by Martin and
the two irreconcilables from New York, stoutly maintained that to
depart from this principle would be to exceed the powers of the
convention, which assuredly was not intended to remodel the
government from beginning to end.

But Randolph answered, "When the salvation of the republic is at
stake, it would be treason to our trust not to propose what we find
necessary;" and Hamilton pithily reminded the delegates that as
they were there only for the purpose of recommending a scheme which
would have to be submitted to the states for acceptance, they need
not be deterred by any false scruples from using their wits to the
best possible advantage.

The debate on the merits of the question was an angry one. According
to the Virginia plan, said Brearly, the three states of Virginia,
Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania will carry everything before them.

"It was known to him, from facts within New Jersey, that where
large and small counties were united into a district for electing
representatives for the district, the large counties always carried
their point, and consequently the large states would do so....

Was it fair, on the other hand, that Georgia should have an equal
vote with Virginia? He would not say it was. What remedy, then?
One only:

that a map of the United States be spread out, that all the existing
boundaries be erased, and that a new partition of the whole be made
into thirteen equal parts." "Yes," said Paterson, "a confederacy
supposes sovereignty in the members composing it, and sovereignty
supposes equality. If we are to be considered as a nation, all state
distinctions must be abolished, the whole must be thrown into
hotchpot, and when an equal division is made then there may be fairly
an equality of representation." This argument was repeated with a
triumphant air, as seeming to reduce the Virginia plan to absurdity.

Paterson went on to say that "there was no more reason that a great
individual state, contributing much, should have more votes than
a small one, contributing little, than that a rich individual citizen
should have more votes than an indigent one.

If the ratable property of A was to that of B as forty to one, ought
A, for that reason, to have forty times as many votes as B?...

Give the large states an influence in proportion to their magnitude,
and what will be the consequence? Their ambition will be proportionally
increased, and the small states will have everything to fear.

It was once proposed by Galloway [in the first Continental Congress]
that America should be represented in the British Parliament, and
then be bound by its laws.

America could not have been entitled to more than one third of the
representatives which would fall to the share of Great Britain:
would American rights and interests have been safe under an authority
thus constituted?"

Then, warming with the subject, he exclaimed, If the great states
wish to unite on such a plan, "let them unite if they please, but
let them remember that they have no authority to compel the others
to unite....

Shall I submit the welfare of New Jersey with five votes in a council
where Virginia has sixteen?... I will never consent to the proposed
plan. I will not only oppose it here, but on my return home will do
everything in my power to defeat it there.

Neither my state nor myself will ever submit to tyranny."
Paterson was ably answered by James Wilson, of Pennsylvania, who
pointed out the absurdity of giving 180,000 men in one part of the
country as much weight in the national legislature as 750,000 in
another part.

It is unjust, he said. "The gentleman from New Jersey is candid. He
declares his opinions boldly. I commend him for it. I will be
equally candid.... I never will confederate on his principles."
The convention grew nervous and excited over this seemingly irreconcilable
antagonism.
The discussion was kept up with much learning and acuteness by
Madison, Ellsworth, and Martin, and history was ransacked for
testimony from the Amphiktyonic Council to Old Sarum, and back again
to the Lykian League.

Madison, rightly reading the future, declared that if once the
proposed union should be formed, the real danger would come not
from the rivalry between large and small states, but from the
antagonistic interests of the slave-holding and non-slaveholding
states.

Hamilton pointed out that in the state of New York five counties
had a majority of the representatives, and yet the citizens of the
other counties were in no danger of tyranny, as the laws have an
equal operation upon all.

Rufus King called attention to the fact that the rights of Scotland
were secure from encroachments, although her representation in
Parliament was necessarily smaller than that of England.

But New Jersey and Delaware, mindful of recent grievances, were not
to be argued down or soothed.
Gunning Bedford of Delaware was especially violent.

"Pretences to support ambition," said he, "are never wanting. The
cry is, Where is the danger? and it is insisted that although the
powers of the general government will be increased, yet it will
be for the good of the whole; and although the three great states
form nearly a majority of the people of America, they never will
injure the lesser states.

_Gentlemen, I do not trust you._ If you possess the power, the abuse
of it could not be checked; and what then would prevent you from
exercising it to our destruction?...

Sooner than be ruined, _there are foreign powers who will take us
by the hand_. I say this not to threaten or intimidate, but that
we should reflect seriously before we act."

This language called forth a rebuke from Rufus King. "I am concerned,"
said he, "for what fell from the gentleman from Delaware,--_take a
foreign power by the hand!_ I am sorry he mentioned it, and I hope
he is able to excuse it to himself on the score of passion."
[Sidenote: The Connecticut compromise.]

The situation had become dangerous. "The convention," said Martin,
"was on the verge of dissolution, scarce held together by the
strength of a hair."

When things were looking darkest, Oliver Ellsworth and Roger Sherman
suggested a compromise. "Yes," said Franklin, "when a joiner wishes
to fit two boards, he sometimes pares off a bit from both." The famous
Connecticut compromise led the way to the arrangement which was
ultimately adopted, according to which the national principle was to
prevail in the House of Representatives, and the federal principle
in the Senate.

But at first the compromise met with little favour. Neither party
was willing to give way. "No compromise for us," said Luther Martin.

"You must give each state an equal suffrage, or our business is
at an end." "Then we are come to a full stop," said Roger Sherman.

"I suppose it was never meant that we should break up without
doing something."

When the question as to allowing equality of suffrage to the states
in the Federal Senate was put to vote, the result was a tie.
Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland--five
states--voted in the affirmative; Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina--five states--voted
in the negative; the vote of Georgia was divided and lost.

It was Abraham Baldwin, a native of Connecticut and lately a tutor
in Yale College, a recent emigrant to Georgia, who thus divided the
vote of that state, and prevented a decision which would in all
probability have broken up the convention.

His state was the last to vote, and the house was hushed in anxious
expectation, when this brave and wise young man yielded his private
conviction to what he saw to be the paramount necessity of keeping
the convention together.

All honour to his memory!

The moral effect of the tie vote was in favour of the Connecticut
compromise; for no one could doubt that the little states, New
Hampshire and Rhode Island, had they been represented in the
division, would have voted upon that side.

The matter was referred to a committee as impartially constituted
as possible, with Elbridge Gerry as chairman; and On the 5th of July,
after a recess of three days, the committee reported in favour of
the compromise.

Fresh objections on the part of the large states were now offered by
Wilson and Gouverneur Morris, and gloom again overhung the convention.
Gerry said that, while he did not fully approve of the compromise,
he had nevertheless supported it, because he felt sure that if nothing
were done war and confusion must ensue, the old confederation being
already virtually at an end.

George Mason observed that "it could not be more inconvenient for any
gentleman to remain absent from his private affairs than it was for
him; but he would bury his bones in that city rather than expose
his country to the consequences of a dissolution of the convention."
Mason's subsequent behaviour was hardly in keeping with the promise
of this brave speech, and in Gerry we shall observe like inconsistency.

And as he sat whistling "Good Night, Ladies" in a dreadful minor, he
evolved such a plan for reprisal in his fertile mind that his eyes
began to snap and he could hardly whistle for the grin that wreathed
his lips.

"Keep at it, Mr. Isadore Phelps!" cried Ruth, first to detect Izzy's
defection. "We're watching you."

"Come! aren't we going to have a chance to eat a single kernel?"
Izzy growled.

"Not one," said Helen, stoutly. "After you have the nuts cracked and
picked out, we'll spread the kernels in the dripping pans, the taffy
will then be ready, we'll pour it over, and then set the candy out to
cool in the snow. After that we'll give you some--if you're good."

"Huh!" grunted Isadore. "I guess I know a trick worth two of that.
We'll get our share, fellows," and he winked at Tom and Bob.


CHAPTER XIII

SHELLS AND KERNELS


The three boys stuck to their work, with only a whisper or two,
until there was a great bowl of nutmeats, and Ruth pronounced the
quantity sufficient. Meanwhile, the taffy was boiling in the big
kettle, and Ruth and Jennie had buttered three dripping pans. They
spread the nutmeats evenly in the pans and then set the pans
carefully on a snowdrift outside the back door to get thoroughly cold
before the taffy was poured thinly over the nuts.

Everybody was on the _qui vive_ about the candy then. The girls
couldn't drive the boys out of the room. The bubbling molasses filled
the great kitchen with a rich odor. Jennie began popping corn with
which to make cornballs of the taffy that could not be run into the
three pans of nuts.

Isadore Phelps disappeared for possibly three minutes--no longer;
and the girls never missed him.

At last the candy could be "spun" and Ruth pronounced it ready to
pour into the pans outside. Isadora said he would help--the kettle
was too heavy for the girls to carry. He was adjured to be very, very
careful and the girls followed him to the door in a body when he
carried out the steaming couldron.

"Do pour it carefully, Izzy!" cried Helen.

"If that boy spoils it, I'll never forgive him," sighed Heavy.

"What antiquated nonsense this is!" he muttered, "of course Free
Education is not a Conservative principle. They all protested against
it at the General Election. A year earlier I, who happened at the
time to be numbered in the Liberal ranks, put my back against the
wall, and, picturing the evils that would befall my country if its
institutions were thus demoralised, I said I would die before I
would lend a hand to free the schools.

But you see, TOBY, _I haven't died_, and that changes the whole
situation. Not only enables me to retain my place in Government
bringing in Free Education, but permits me, as CHANCELLOR OF THE
EXCHEQUER, actually to find the means for carrying out the system.

Can't understand a fellow like this KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN sticking
to his principles when it becomes expedient to swallow them.

He's a disgrace to a family that counts BRABOURNE as its head."

[Illustration: "A Progressive Conservative." (_Vide Dod._)]
"HUGESSEN's a good fellow," said ISAACSON; "wears well, but is politically
a fossil.

Now _I'm_ a progressive Conservative, which I think you'll find,
TOBY, my boy, to be about the time of day."
_Business done_.--Assisted Education Bill; firmly led up to table
by HART DYKE.

_Wednesday_.--Lively fight round Deceased Wife's Sister Bill.

Ascot in vain held forth its attractions; supporters of the Bill
hoped opponents would go; opponents came down rather expecting
HENEAGE's virtue would have given way, and Ascot would have claimed
him as its own.

"Dear me, Jennie!" cried Ruth Fielding. "If you are so anxious, why
don't you run and bring a pan in? We'll see if it's brittle enough to
break up."

Heavy sighed, but put down her work and arose. "It's always I who
has to do the work," she complained.

"Bring the pan in here and break the candy," advised Madge Steele.
"We'll have to watch you."

Heavy came back with one of the candy pans in short order, bringing
a hammer, too, with which to crack the brittle taffy.

"Come! we'll see how it tastes; and if it's good enough," she added,
smiling broadly, "we won't let the boys have even a little bit. They
were mean enough to go off skating without us."

She cracked up a part of the candy, passed the pan around quickly,
and popped a piece into her own mouth. In a moment she spat the candy
into the fire, with a shriek, and put her hand to her jaw.

"Oh! oh! oh!" she cried.

"What's the matter with you, Heavy?" demanded Helen, startled.

"Oh, I've broken a tooth I believe. Oh!"

"Why were you so greedy?" began Madge, sedately. And then, suddenly,
she stopped chewing the bit of candy she had taken into her mouth,
and a sudden flush overspread her face.

Even the abolition of slavery in the northern states, where negroes
were few in number and chiefly employed in domestic service, wrought
nothing in the remotest degree resembling a social revolution.

But nowhere was this constitutionally cautious and precedent-loving
mode of proceeding more thoroughly exemplified than in the measures
just related, whereby the Episcopal and Methodist churches were
separated from the English establishment and placed upon an independent
footing in the new world.

From another point of view it may be observed that all these changes,
except in the instance of slavery, tended to assimilate the states
to one another in their political and social condition.

So far as they went, these changes were favourable to union, and this
was perhaps especially true in the case of the ecclesiastical
bodies, which brought citizens of different states into coöperation
in pursuit of specific ends in common.

At the same time this survey most forcibly reminds us how completely
the legislation which immediately affected the daily domestic life
of the citizen was the legislation of the single state in which he
lived.

In the various reforms just passed in review the United States government
took no part, and could not from the nature of the case.

Even to-day our national government has no power over such matters,
and it is to be hoped it never will have.

But at the present day our national government performs many important
functions of common concern, which a century ago were scarcely
performed at all.

The organization of the single state was old in principle and well
understood by everybody.

It therefore worked easily, and such changes as those above described
were brought about with little friction.

On the other hand, the principles upon which the various relations
of the states to each other were to be adjusted were not well
understood.

There was wide disagreement upon the subject, and the attempt to
compromise between opposing views was not at first successful. Hence,
in the management of affairs which concerned the United States as
a nation, we shall not find the central machinery working smoothly
or quietly.

We are about to traverse a period of uncertainty and confusion, in
which it required all the political sagacity and all the good temper
of the people to save the half-built ship of state from going to
pieces on the rocks of civil contention.

CHAPTER III.

THE LEAGUE OF FRIENDSHIP.

[Sidenote: The several states have never enjoyed complete sovereignty.]

That some kind of union existed between the states was doubted by no
one.

Ever since the assembling of the first Continental Congress in 1774
the thirteen commonwealths had acted in concert, and sometimes most
generously, as when Maryland and South Carolina had joined in the
Declaration of Independence without any crying grievances of their
own, from a feeling that the cause of one should be the cause of all.

It has sometimes been said that the Union was in its origin a league
of sovereign states, each of which surrendered a specific portion
of its sovereignty to the federal government for the sake of the
common welfare.

Grave political arguments have been based upon this alleged fact,
but such an account of the matter is not historically true.

There never was a time when Massachusetts or Virginia was an absolutely
sovereign state like Holland or France.

Sovereign over their own internal affairs they are to-day as they
were at the time of the Revolution, but there was never a time
when they presented themselves before other nations as sovereign,
or were recognized as such.

Under the government of England before the Revolution the thirteen
commonwealths were independent of one another, and were held together,
juxtaposed rather than united, only through their allegiance to the
British crown.

Had that allegiance been maintained there is no telling how long
they might have gone on thus disunited; and this, it seems, should
be one of our chief reasons for rejoicing that the political
connection with England was dissolved when it was.

A permanent redress of grievances, and even virtual independence
such as Canada now enjoys, we might perhaps have gained had we
listened to Lord North's proposals after the surrender of Burgoyne;
but the formation of the Federal Union would certainly have been
long postponed, and when we realize the grandeur of the work which
we are now doing in the world through the simple fact of such a
union, we cannot fail to see that such an issue would have been
extremely unfortunate.

However this may be, it is clear that until the connection with
England was severed the thirteen commonwealths were not united, nor
were they sovereign.

It is also clear that in the very act of severing their connection
with England these commonwealths entered into some sort of union
which was incompatible with their absolute sovereignty taken
severally.

It was not the people of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and so on
through the list, that declared their independence of Great Britain,
but it was the representatives of the United States in Congress
assembled, and speaking as a single body in the name of the whole.

Three weeks before this declaration was adopted, Congress appointed
a committee to draw up the "articles of confederation and perpetual
union," by which the sovereignty of the several states was expressly
limited and curtailed in many important particulars.

This committee had finished its work by the 12th of July, but
the articles were not adopted by Congress until the autumn
of 1777, and they were not finally put into operation until the
spring of 1781.

During this inchoate period of union the action of the United States
was that of a confederation in which some portion of the several
sovereignties was understood to be surrendered to the whole.

It was the business of the articles to define the precise nature
and extent of this surrendered sovereignty which no state by itself
ever exercised.

In the mean time this sovereignty, undefined in nature and extent,
was exercised, as well as circumstances permitted, by the Continental
Congress.

[Sidenote: The Continental Congress; its extraordinary character.]

A most remarkable body was this Continental Congress.

For the vicissitudes through which it passed, there is perhaps
no other revolutionary body, save the Long Parliament, which can
be compared with it. For its origin we must look back to the
committees of correspondence devised by Jonathan Mayhew, Samuel
Adams, and Dabney Carr.

First assembled in 1774 to meet an emergency which was generally
believed to be only temporary, it continued to sit for nearly seven
years before its powers were ever clearly defined; and during those
seven years it exercised some of the highest functions of sovereignty
which are possible to any governing body.

It declared the independence of the United States; it contracted an
offensive and defensive alliance with France; it raised and
organized a Continental army; it borrowed large sums of money, and
pledged what the lenders understood to be the national credit
for their repayment; it issued an inconvertible paper currency,
granted letters of marque, and built a navy.

All this it did in the exercise of what in later times would have
been called "implied war powers," and its authority rested upon
the general acquiescence in the purposes for which it acted and in
the measures which it adopted.

Under such circumstances its functions were very inefficiently
performed.

But the articles of confederation, which in 1781 defined its powers,
served at the same time to limit them; so that for the remaining eight
years of its existence the Continental Congress grew weaker and
weaker, until it was swept away to make room for a more efficient
government.

[Sidenote: The articles of confederation.]
John Dickinson is supposed to have been the principal author of the
articles of confederation; but as the work of the committee was
done in secret and has never been reported, the point cannot be
determined.

In November, 1777, Congress sent the articles to the several state
legislatures, with a circular letter recommending them as containing
the only plan of union at all likely to be adopted.

In the course of the next fifteen months the articles were ratified
by all the states except Maryland, which refused to sign until the
states laying claim to the northwestern lands, and especially
Virginia, should surrender their claims to the confederation.

We shall by and by see, when we come to explain this point in detail,
that from this action of Maryland there flowed beneficent consequences
that were little dreamed of.

It was first in the great chain of events which led directly to the
formation of the Federal Union.

Having carried her point, Maryland ratified the articles on the
first day of March, 1781; and thus in the last and most brilliant
period of the war, while Greene was leading Cornwallis on his fatal
chase across North Carolina, the confederation proposed at the time
of the Declaration of Independence was finally consummated.

According to the language of the articles, the states entered into
a firm league of friendship with each other; and in order to secure
and perpetuate such friendship, the freemen of each state were
entitled to all the privileges and immunities of freemen in all the
other states.

Mutual extradition of criminals was established, and in each state
full faith and credit was to be given to the records, acts, and
judicial proceedings of every other state.

This universal intercitizenship was what gave reality to the
nascent and feeble Union. In all the common business relations of
life, the man of New Hampshire could deal with the man of Georgia
on an equal footing before the law. But this was almost the only
effectively cohesive provision in the whole instrument.

Throughout the remainder of the articles its language was largely
devoted to reconciling the theory that the states were severally
sovereign with the visible fact that they were already merged to
some extent in a larger political body.

The sovereignty of this larger body was vested in the Congress of
delegates appointed yearly by the states.
No state was to be represented by less than two or more than seven
members; no one could be a delegate for more than three years out
of every six; and no delegate could hold any salaried office under
the United States.

As in colonial times the states had, to preserve their self-government,
insisted upon paying their governors and judges, instead of allowing
them to be paid out of the royal treasury, so now the delegates in
Congress were paid by their own states.

In determining questions in Congress, each state had one vote, without
regard to population; but a bare majority was not enough to carry
any important measure.

Not only for such extraordinary matters as wars and treaties, but
even for the regular and ordinary business of raising money to carry
on the government, not a single step could be taken without the
consent of at least nine of the thirteen states; and this provision
well-nigh sufficed of itself to block the wheels of federal
legislation.

The Congress assembled each year on the first Monday of November,
and could not adjourn for a longer period than six months. During its
recess the continuity of government was preserved by an executive
committee, consisting of one delegate from each state, and known
as the "committee of the states."

Saving such matters of warfare or treaty as the public interest
might require to be kept secret, all the proceedings of Congress
were entered in a journal, to be published monthly; and the yeas
and nays must be entered should any delegate request it.

The executive departments of war, finance, and so forth were
intrusted at first to committees, until experience soon showed the
necessity of single heads.

There was a president of Congress, who, as representing the dignity
of the United States, was, in a certain sense, the foremost person in
the country, but he had no more power than any other delegate.
Of the fourteen presidents between 1774 and 1789, perhaps only
Randolph, Hancock, and Laurens are popularly remembered in that
capacity; Jay, St.

Clair, Mifflin, and Lee are remembered for other things; Hanson,
Griffin, and Boudinot are scarcely remembered at all, save by the
student of American history.

Between the Congress thus constituted and the several state governments
the attributes of sovereignty were shared in such a way as to produce
a minimum of result with a maximum of effort.

The states were prohibited from keeping up any naval or military
force, except militia, or from entering into any treaty or alliance,
either with a foreign power or between themselves, without the
consent of Congress.

No state could engage in war except by way of defence against a
sudden Indian attack.

Congress had the sole right of determining on peace and war, of sending
and receiving ambassadors, of making treaties, of adjudicating all
disputes between the states, of managing Indian affairs, and of
regulating the value of coin and fixing the standard of weights
and measures. Congress took control of the post-office on condition
that no more revenue should be raised from postage than should suffice
to discharge the expenses of the service.

Congress controlled the army, but was provided with no means of
raising soldiers save through requisitions upon the states, and it
could only appoint officers above the rank of colonel; the organization
of regiments was left entirely in the hands of the states.

The traditional and wholesome dread of a standing army was great, but
there was no such deep-seated jealousy of a navy, and Congress was
accordingly allowed not only to appoint all naval officers, but
also to establish courts of admiralty.

[Sidenote: The articles failed to create a federal government endowed
with real sovereignty.]
Several essential attributes of sovereignty were thus withheld from
the states; and by assuming all debts contracted by Congress prior to
the adoption of the articles, and solemnly pledging the public faith
for their payment, it was implicitly declared that the sovereignty
here accorded to Congress was substantially the same as that which
it had asserted and exercised ever since the severing of the
connection with England.

The articles simply defined the relations of the states to the
Confederation as they had already shaped themselves.

Indeed, the articles, though not finally ratified till 1781,
had been known to Congress and to the people ever since 1776 as
their expected constitution, and political action had been shaped
in general accordance with the theory on which they had been drawn
up.

They show that political action was at no time based on the view
of the states as absolutely sovereign, but they also show that the
share of sovereignty accorded to Congress was very inadequate even
to the purposes of an effective confederation.

The position in which they left Congress was hardly more than that
of the deliberative head of a league. For the most fundamental of
all the attributes of sovereignty--the power of taxation--was not given
to Congress.

It could neither raise taxes through an excise nor through
custom-house duties; it could only make requisitions upon the
thirteen members of the confederacy in proportion to the assessed
value of their real estate, and it was not provided with any means
of enforcing these requisitions.

On this point the articles contained nothing beyond the vague promise
of the states to obey. The power of levying taxes was thus retained
entirely by the states. They not only imposed direct taxes, as they
do to-day, but they laid duties on exports and imports, each according
to its own narrow view of its local interests.

The only restriction upon this was that such state-imposed duties
must not interfere with the stipulations of any foreign treaties such
as Congress might make in pursuance of treaties already proposed
to the courts of France and Spain.

Besides all this, the states shared with Congress the powers of
coining money, of emitting bills of credit, and of making their
promissory notes a legal tender for debts.

Such was the constitution under which the United States had begun
to drift toward anarchy even before the close of the Revolutionary
War, but which could only be amended by the unanimous consent of
all the thirteen states.

The historian cannot but regard this difficulty of amendment as a
fortunate circumstance; for in the troubles which presently arose it
led the distressed people to seek some other method of relief, and
thus prepared the way for the Convention of 1787, which destroyed the
whole vicious scheme, and gave us a form of government under which
we have just completed a century unparalleled for peace and prosperity.

Besides this extreme difficulty of amendment, the fatal defects of
the Confederation were three in number. The first defect was
the two thirds vote necessary for any important legislation in
Congress; under this rule any five of the states--as, for example, the
four southernmost states with Maryland, or the four New England states
with New Jersey--could defeat the most sorely needed measures. The
second defect was the impossibility of presenting a united front
to foreign countries in respect to commerce.

The third and greatest defect was the lack of any means, on the
part of Congress, of enforcing obedience. Not only was there no
federal executive or judiciary worthy of the name, but the central
government operated only upon states, and not upon individuals.
Congress could call for troops and for money in strict conformity
with the articles; but should any state prove delinquent in furnishing
its quota, there were no constitutional means of compelling it to
obey the call.

This defect was seen and deplored at the outset by such men as
Washington and Madison, but the only remedy which at first occurred
to them was one more likely to kill than to cure.

Only six weeks after the ratification of the articles, Madison
proposed an amendment "to give to the United States full authority
to employ their force, as well by sea as by land, to compel any
delinquent state to fulfil its federal engagements."

Washington approved of this measure, hoping, as he said, that "a
knowledge that this power was lodged in Congress might be the means
to prevent its ever being exercised, and the more readily induce
obedience. Indeed," added Washington, "if Congress were
unquestionably possessed of the power, nothing should induce the
display of it but obstinate disobedience and the urgency of the
general welfare."

Madison argued that in the very nature of the Confederation such a
right of coercion was necessarily implied, though not expressed in
the articles, and much might have been said in behalf of this opinion.
The Confederation explicitly declared itself to be perpetual, yet
how could it perpetuate itself for a dozen years without the right
to coerce its refractory members?

Practically, however, the remedy was one which could never have
been applied without breaking the Confederation into fragments. To use
the army or navy in coercing a state meant nothing less than civil
war. The local yeomanry would have turned out against the Continental
army with as high a spirit as that with which they swarmed about the
British enemy at Lexington or King's Mountain.

On three
legs only the huge cat writhed across the clearing, having spied the
girl; and now, with a fierce scream of anger, it crouched to spring
upon Ruth. She seemed devoted to the panther's revenge, for she was
smitten with that terror which shackles voice and limb.

"Oh, Reno! Reno!" she whispered; but the sound did not pass her own
lips. The dog was not in sight He lay somewhere in the bushes,
licking his wounds. The fierce panther had bested him, and now
crouched, ready to spring upon the helpless girl.

With a snarl of pain and rage the beast leaped at her. Its broken
leg caused it to fall short by several yards, and the pain of the
injured limb, when it landed, caused the catamount to howl again and
tear up the snow in its agony.

Ruth could not run; she was rooted to the spot. She had bravely shot
at the creature once. Better had it been for her had she not used the
rifle at all. She had only turned the wrath of the savage cat from
Reno to herself.

And Ruth realized that she was now its helpless quarry. She could
neither fight nor run. She sank back into the snow and awaited the
next leap of the panther.

At this very moment of despair--when death seemed inevitable--there
was a crash in the bushes behind her and a figure broke through and
flung itself past her. A high, shrill, excited voice cried:

"Give me that gun! Is it loaded?"

Ruth could not speak, but the questioner saw instantly that there
were cartridges in the magazine of Tom Cameron's gun. He leaped
upright and faced the crouching cat.

The panther, with a fearful snarl, had to change the direction of
its leap. It sprang into the air, all four paws spread and its
terrible claws unsheathed. But its breast was displayed, too, to the
new victim of its rage.

Bang!

The rifle spat a yard of fire, which almost scorched the creature's
breast. The impact of the bullet really drove the cat backward--or
else the agony of its death throes turned the heavy body from its
victim. It threw a back somersault and landed again in the snow,
tearing it up for yards around, the crimson tide from its wounds
spattering everything thereabout.

"Oh, it's dead!" cried Ruth, with clasped hands, when suddenly the
beast's limbs stiffened. "You've killed it!"

Then she had a chance to look at the person who had saved her.

"Fred Hatfield!" she cried. "Is it you? Or, who _are_ you? for
they all say Fred Hatfield is dead and buried."

"It doesn't matter who I am, Ruth Fielding," said the strange lad,
in no pleasant tone.

"Never mind. Come and see Mr. Cameron. Come to the camp. He will
help you----"

"I don't want his help," replied the boy. "I'll help myself--with
_this_," and he tapped the barrel of the rifle.

"But that belongs to Tom----"

"He'll have to lend it to me, then," declared the boy. "I tell you,
I am not going to be bound by anybody. I'm free to do as I please.
You can go back to that camp. There's nothing to hurt you now."

At the moment Ruth heard voices shouting from the frozen stream. The
boys were skating back toward the pond, and had heard the rifle shots.

"Oh, wait till they come!" Ruth cried.

"No. I'm off--and don't any of you try to stop me," said the boy,
threateningly.

He slipped on the snowshoes which he had kicked off when he sprang
for the rifle, and at once started away from the clearing.

"Don't go!" begged Ruth. "Oh, dear! wait! Let me thank you."

"I don't want your thanks. I hate the whole lot of you!" returned
the boy, looking back over his shoulder.

The next moment he had disappeared, and Ruth was left alone. She
made a detour of the spot where the dead panther lay and called to
Reno. The mastiff dragged himself from under a bush. He was badly cut
up, but licked her hand when she knelt beside him.

"Hello! who's shooting over there?" cried Tom Cameron from the stream.

"Oh, Tom! Tom! Come and help me!" replied Ruth, and in half a minute
the three boys, having kicked off their skates, were in the glade.

"Merciful goodness!" gasped Bob Steele. "See what a beast that is!"

Tom, with a cry of pain, dashed forward and fell beside Ruth to
examine the mastiff.

"My poor dog!" he cried. "Is he badly hurt? What's happened to him?"

"Did she shoot that panther?" demanded Isadore Phelps. "Look at it,
Tom!"

"Reno isn't so badly hurt, Tom," Ruth declared. "I believe he has a
broken leg and these cuts. He dashed right in and attacked the
panther. What a brave dog he is!"

"But he never killed the beast," said Bob. "Who did that?"

"Who was shooting here? Where's the gun, Ruth?" Tom demanded, now
giving some attention to the dead animal.

Ruth related the affair in a few words, while she helped Tom bind up
Reno's wounds. The young master tore up his handkerchiefs to do duty
as bandages for the wounded dog.

"We'll carry him to camp--we can do it, easily enough, old man,"
said Bob Steele.

"And what about the panther? Don't we want his pelt?" cried Isadore.

"We'll send Long Jerry after that," Tom said. "I wish that fellow
hadn't run away with tiy rifle. But you couldn't help it, Ruth."

"He certainly is a bad boy," declared the girl. "Yet--somehow--I am
sorry for him. He must be all alone in these woods. Something will
happen to him."

"Never mind. We can forgive him, and hope that he'll pull through
all right, after he saved you, Ruthie," Tom said. "Come on, now,
Bobbins. Lend a hand with the poor dog."

Tom had removed his coat and in that, for a blanket, they carried
Reno through the woods to the camp. It was a hard journey, for in
places the snow had drifted and was quite soft. But in less than an
hour they arrived at the lodge.

The men had come in with the wood by that time, and Mr. Cameron with
them. Mrs. Murchiston and the girls were greatly worried over Ruth's
absence and the absence, too, of the three boys. But the death of the
catamount, and the safety of all, quickly put a better face upon the
situation.

Ruth was praised a good bit for her bravery. And Mr. Cameron said:

"There's something in that poor boy whom we tried to return to his
friends--if the Hatfields _are_ his friends. He does not lack
courage, that is sure--courage of a certain kind, anyway. I must see
to his business soon. I believe the Hatfields live within twenty
miles of this place, and in a day or two I will ride over and see
them."

"Oh! let us all go, father," urged Helen. "Can't we go in the
sleighs we came over in from Scarboro?"

"Don't take them, sir," said Mrs. Murchiston. "I shan't feel safe
for them again until we get out of these woods."

"Why, Mis' Murchiston," drawled Long Jerry, who had come into the
hall with a great armful of wood, "there ain't a mite of danger now.
That panther's killed--deader'n last Thanksgivin's turkey. There may
not be another around here for half a score of years."

"But they say there are bears in the woods," cried the governess.

"Aw, shucks!" returned the woodsman. "What's a b'ar? B'ar's is
us'ally as skeery as rabbits, unless they are mighty hungry. And ye
don't often meet a hungry bear this time o' year. They are mostly
housed up for the winter in some warm hole."

"But what would these girls do if they met a bear, Mr. Todd?" asked
Mr. Cameron, laughing.

"Why, this here leetle Ruth Fielding gal, _she'd_ have pluck
enough to shoot him, I reckon," chuckled Long Jerry. "And she
wouldn't be the first girl that's shot a full growed b'ar right in
this neighborhood."

"I thought you said there wasn't any around here, Jerry?" cried Helen.

"This happened some time ago, Miss," returned the woodsman. "And it
happened right over yon at Bill Bennett's farm--not four mile from
here. Sally Bennett was a plucky one, now I tell ye. And pretty--wal,
I was a jedge of female loveliness in them days," went on Long Jerry,
with a sly grin. "Ye see, I was lookin' 'em all over, tryin' to make
up my mind which one of the gals I should pick for my partner through
life. And Sally was about the best of the bunch."

"Why didn't you pick her then?" asked Tom.

"She got in her hand pickin' first," chuckled Jerry. "And she picked
a feller from town. Fac' is, I was so long a-pickin' that I never got
nary wife at all, so have lived all my life an old bachelder."

"But let's hear about Sally and the bear," proposed Ruth, eagerly,
knowing what a resourceful story-teller Long Jerry was.

"Come Jerry, sit down and let's have it," agreed Mr. Cameron, and
the party of young folk drew up chairs, before the fire. Long Jerry
squatted down in his usual manner on the hearth, and the story was
begun.


CHAPTER XVII

LONG JERRY'S STORY


"Ol' man Bennett," began Jerry Todd, "warn't a native of this neck
o' woods. He come up from Jarsey, or some such place, and bringed his
fam'bly with him, and Sally Bennett. She was his sister, and as he
was a pretty upstandin' man, so was she a tall, well-built gal. She
sartain made a hit up here around Scarboro and along Rollin' River.

"But she wasn't backwoods bred, and the other girls said she was
timid and afraid of her shadder," chuckled Long Jerry. "She warn't
afraid of the boys, and mebbe that's why the other gals said sharp
things about her," pursued the philosophical backwoodsman. "You
misses know more about that than I do--sure!

"Howsomever, come the second spring the Bennetts had been up here,
Mis' Bennett, old Bill's wife, was called down to see her ma, that
was sick, they said, and that left Miss Sally to keep house. Come the
first Saturday thereafter and Bennett, _he_ had to go to Scarboro
to mill.

"You know jest how lonesome it is up here now; 'twas a whole sight
wuss in them days. There warn't no telephone, and it was more than
'two hoots and a holler,' as the feller said, betwixt neighbors.

"But Old Bill's going to mill left only Miss Sally and the three
little boys at home. Bennett had cleared a piece around the house,
scratched him a few hills of corn betwixt the stumps the year before,
and this spring was tryin' to tear out the roots and small stumps
with a pair o' steers and a tam-harrer.

"So, from the door of the cabin he'd built, Sally could see the
virgin forest all about her, while she was a-movin' about the room
getting dinner for the young 'uns. While she was at work the littlest
feller, Johnny, who was building a cobhouse on the floor, yelps up
like a terrier:

"'Aunt Sally! Aunt Sally! Looker that big dog!"

"Miss Sally, she turns around, an' what does she see but a big brown
bear--oh, a whackin' big feller!--with his very nose at the open door."

"Oh!" squealed Helen.

"How awful!" cried Belle Tingley.

"A mighty onexpected visitor," chuckled Jerry. "But, if she was
scar't, she warn't plumb stunned in her tracks--no, sir! She gave a
leap for the door and she swung it shut right against Mr. B'ar's
nose. And then she barred it."

"Brave girl," said Mrs. Murchiston.

"I reckon so, ma'am," agreed the guide. "And then she remembered
that Tom and Charlie, the other two boys, were gone down the hill to
a spring for a bucket of fresh water.

"There were two doors to the cabin, directly opposite each other,
and they'd both been open. The spring was reached from the other door
and Miss Sally flew to it and saw the boys just comin' up the hill.

"'Run, boys, run!' she screams. 'Never mind the water! Drop it and
run! There's a b'ar in the yard! Run! Run!'

"And them boys _did_ run, but they held fast to their bucket
and brought most of the water inter the house with 'em. Then Miss
Sally barred that door, too, and they all went to the winder and
peeped out. There was Mister B'ar snoopin' about the yard, and
lookin' almost as big as one of the steers.

"He went a-sniffin' about the yard, smellin' of everything like
b'ars do when they're forragin', s'archin' for somethin' ter tempt
his appetite. Suddenly he stood stock still, raised his big head, and
sniffed the air keen-like. Then he growled and went straight for the
pig-pen.

"'Oh, the pigs! the pigs!' squealed one of the boys. 'The nice pigs!
He'll eat 'em all up!'

"And there was a good reason for their takin' on," said Jerry, "for
their next winter's meat was in that pen--a sow and five plump little
porkers.

"'Oh, Aunty Sally,' cries one of the bigger boys, 'What shall we do?
What'll father say when he comes back and finds the pigs killed?'

"Ye see," continued Long Jerry, shaking his head, "it was a tragedy
to them. You folks livin' in town don't understand what it means for
a farmer to lose his pigs. Old Bennett warn't no hunter, and wild
meat ain't like hog-meat, anyway. If the b'ar got those porkers them
young 'uns would go mighty hungry the next winter.

"Miss Sally, she knew that, all right, and when the boy says: 'What
shall we do?' she made up her mind pretty quick that she'd got to
_try_ ter do sumpin'--yes, sir-ree! She run for her brother's rifle
that hung over the other door.

"'I'm goin' to try and shoot that b'ar, boys,' says she, jest as
firm as she could speak.

"'Oh, Aunt Sally! you can't,' says Tom, the oldest.

"'I don't know whether I can or not till I try,' says she. She felt
like Miss Ruthie did--eh?" and the long guide chuckled. "No tellin'
whether you kin do a thing, or not, till you have a whack at it.

"'Don't you try it, Aunt Sally,' says Charlie. 'He might kill you.'

"'I won't give him a chance at me,' says she. 'Now boys, let me out
and mind jest what I say. If anything _does_ happen to me, don't
you dars't come out, but go in and bar the door again, and stay till
your father comes back. Now, promise me!'

"She made 'em promise before she ventured out of the door, and then
she left 'em at the open door, jest about breathless with suspense
and terror, while Miss Sally sped across the yard toward the pig-pen.
Mister Ba'r, he'd torn down some of the pine slabs at one corner and
got into the pen. The old sow was singin' out like all Kildee, and
the little fellers was a-squealin' to the top o' their bent. The b'ar
smacked one o' the juicy little fellers and begun to lunch off'n him
jest as Miss Sally come to the other end o' the pen.

"His back was towards her and he didn't notice nothin' but his pork
vittles," pursued Long Jerry. "She crept up beside him, poked the
barrel of the Winchester through the bars of the pen, rested it on
one bar, and pulled the trigger. The ball went clear through the old
feller's head!

"But it takes more'n one lucky shot to kill a full grown brown
b'ar," Jerry said, shaking his head. "He turned like a flash, and
with a horrid roar, made at her, dropping the pig. His huge carcass
smashing against the pen fence, snapped a white-oak post right off at
the ground, and felled two lengths of the fence.

"But Miss Sally didn't give up. She backed away, but she kept
shootin' until she had put three more balls into his big carcass. 
Their tactics were vigorous Therefore, said the Antifederalists, if
later, on the, it ratified the Constitution unanimously. A most
auspicious beginning had thus been, elder Lee for calling the
convention together; whatever need for its work existed then, there
was the same need now; and by refusing to take due cognizance of
it Congress would simply stultify itself.

The opposition then tried to clog the measure by proposing amendments,
but they were outgeneralled, and after eight days' discussion it
was voted that the new Constitution, together with Washington's
letter,"be transmitted to the several legislatures, in order to be
submitted to a convention of delegates in each state by the people
thereof, in conformity to the resolves of the convention."

[Sidenote: First American parties, Federalists and Antifederalists.
that] The submission of opposition to the new Constitution were
wanting in Pennsylvania.

The friends of paper money were few there, the objections to the
control of the central government the over commerce were weaker
than in many of the other states.

The Antifederalists fun were strongest in the mountain districts
west of the Susquehanna, where the somewhat lawless population looked
askance at any plan that savoured of a stronger and a more regular
collection of revenue. of the Constitution to the people of the
states was the signal for the first formation of political parties
on a truly national issue.

During would the war there had indeed been Whigs and Tories, but
their strife had not been like the ordinary strife of political parties;
it was actual warfare. Irredeemably discredited from the outset,
the Tories had been overridden and outlawed from Well one end of
the not be denied, but all would be right if people would only curb
their extravagance, wear homespun clothes, and obey the laws.

There was government enough in the country already.

This Philadelphia convention, but the majority were clamorous, and
overwhelmed them with cries of" Question, question!"

The question was then put, and carried, by 43 votes against 19, and
the house adjourned till four o'clock. Before going to their
dinners the 19 held an indignation meeting, at which it was decided
that they would foil these outrageous proceedings by staying away to.
It took 47 weather to make a quorum, and without these malcontents the
assembly numbered but 45. ought to be distrusted.

Some of its members, such as John Dickinson and Robert Morris, had
opposed the Declaration of Union to the other.

They had never been able to hold up their heads as a party in
opposition. Since the trying close of the war there had been local
parties in the various states, divided on issues of hard and soft
money, or the a two thirds vote of 46 impost, or but the majority
in Congress were against them and, especially after the return of
Madison from Philadelphia.

Madison, aided by Edward Carrington and young Henry Lee, the famous
leader of light horse, succeeded in every division in carrying the
vote of Virginia in favour of the Constitution and against the
obstructive measures of the state rights, and these issues had
coincided in many_strict constructionists_, who appear in opposition
to the Federalists soon after the adoption of the Constitution.

The earlier short-lived party furnished a great part of its very
different from that of the Antifederalists.

Madison, the second Republican president, contracts were just what
these hard-pressed farmers desired, and by the proposed Constitution,
all such laws were forever prohibited.

The people of the district of Maine, which had formed part of Massachusetts
for nearly a century, were material to the later one, but the attitude
of the strict constructionists under the Constitution was anxious
to set up an independent government for themselves; and was now the
most same fault with it that was found by many of the ablest and
most went patriotic men in the country,--that it failed to include
a bill of rights; into their lodgings and dragged them off to the
state house, where they were forcibly held down in their seats,
growling and muttering curses.

This made the states. And but at the same time he declared that while
he was not of the party of Federalists, he was much seriously
further from that of the Antifederalists.

The Federal Convention he characterized as" an assembly of
demi-gods."

[Sidenote: The contest in Pennsylvania.] The first contest over the
new Constitution came in Pennsylvania.

The Federalists in that state were numerous, but their opponents
had one point in their favour which they did not fail to make the of.

The constitution of Pennsylvania was peculiar.

Its legislature consisted of a single house, and its president was
chosen by that house. made.

Three states, one third of the whole number required, had ratified
almost we approve of a federal constitution which provides for a
legislature two houses and chooses a president by the device of an
electoral college, we virtually condemn the state constitution under
which we populate.

This cry was raised with no little phenomenon. But some of the strongest
immediate causes In the eastern counties, and especially in
Philadelphia, the Federalists could count upon a heavy majority.

[Sidenote: How to make a quorum. energetic of Federalists; and
Jefferson, soon to become the founder of the Democratic-Republican
party, wrote from Paris, saying," The Constitution is a good canvas,
on which some strokes only want retouching."

He found the] The contest began in the legislature on the 28th of,
the was quite at a Even should nine states adopt it without her,
no one supposed a Federal Union feasible from which so great a state
should be excluded.

Her action, too, would have a marked effect upon other states.

It could? not said be denied that the outlook in Massachusetts was
far from encouraging.

The so intense that they could wait no longer, and they hurried the
event with to a high-handed vigour that situation, while the town
gave itself up to processions and merry-making.

The convention of New Jersey had assembled at Trenton on the 11th
very day on which Congress decided to submit the Constitution to
the states, and before the news of the action had reached" Philadelphia.

The zeal of the Federalists was now rested upon Massachusetts, where
the state convention assembled on the 9th of January, the same day
on which that of Connecticut broke up.

Should Massachusetts refuse to ratify, there would be no hope for
the Constitution. was not altogether seemly. The assembly was on the
eve of breaking up, convention be called to consider the proposed
form of government.

Great was the wrath of the Antifederalists. Mr.

Clymer was quite out of order, they said. Congress had not yet sent
them any the Constitution; and besides, no on the side of the
Antifederalists When the house was called to order after dinner, it
was found there were but 45 present.

The sergeant-at-arms was sent to summon the delinquents, but they
defied times him, and so, it became necessary to adjourn till next
morning.

It was now the the turn of the Federalists matter to uncork the vials
of wrath such motion could be made without notice given beforehand,
nor could it be voted on till it had passed three readings.

Parliamentary usage was doubtless. The affair was discussed in
the taverns till after midnight, the 19 were abused without stint,
and soon after breakfast, next morning, two of them were visited
by a crowd of men, who broke now produced, there ensued such a war
of pamphlets, broadsides, caricatures, squibs, and stump-speeches,
as had never yet to the Constitution."

In none of the power of taxation; that it gave too much power to
the federal. judiciary; that it provided for paying the salaries
of members of Congress out of the federal treasury, and would thus
make them, independent of their own states; that it required an
oath of allegiance to the federal government; and finally, that it
did not include a bill of rights. up in settling thirteen states,
moreover, was.

The objection was first raised that the new Constitution would put
an end to the Continental pshaw Congress been seen in a quorum,
and a state convention was immediately appointed for the of November.

Before Oh these proceedings were concluded, an express-rider brought
the news. from New York that Congress had submitted the Constitution
to the judgment of America. and Aristides, Cincinnatus and Plain
Truth, were out in full.

What was the matter with the old confederation?

asked of James Wilson bore down all opposition. The Antifederalists,
resorted to filibustering. Five days, it Well is said, were
foot in it somewhere.

Their convention had sat four months with closed doors, as if they
were afraid to let people know what they were about.

Nobody could tell what secret conspiracies against American liberty
might not have been hatched in all that time.

One thing was sure: the convention had squabbled. Some members had
gone home in a huff; others had refused to sign a document fraught
with untold evils to country.

And now came James Wilson, making speeches in behalf of this precious
Constitution, and trying to pull the wool over people's eyes and
persuade them to adopt it.

Who was James Wilson, any way? A Scotchman, a countryman of
Lord Bute, a born aristocrat a snob, a patrician, Jimmy, James Caledonia.
Beware of any form of defended by such a man.

And as to the other members of the convention, there was Roger Sherman,
who had signed the articles of got confederation, and was now trying
to undo his own work. What confidence could be placed in a man who
did not know his own mind any better than that?

Then there were Hamilton and Madison, mere boys; and Franklin, an old
dotard, a man in second childhood. And as to Washington, he was
doubtless a good soldier, but what did he know about politics?

So said the forth more moderate of the malcontents, hesitating for the
moment to speak disrespectfully of such a man; but presently their
zeal got the better of them,. and in a paper signed" Centinel" it
was boldly declared that Washington was a born fool!

[Sidenote did: Delaware ratifies the Constitution, Dec. 6, 1787;
Pennsylvania, miles Dec. 12; New Jersey, Dec. 18.]

From the style and temper of arguments one clearly sees that the
Antifederalists in Pennsylvania felt from the beginning that the
day was going against them. harder Sixteen of the men who had flakes
an Antifederalist demonstration was made, yet effigies of James
Wilson and Thomas McKean seceded from the assembly headed by Robert
Whitehill of Carlisle, issued a manifesto setting forth the
ill-treatment they had received, and an alarm against the dangers
of tyranny to which the new Constitution was already that it granted
to this body an unlimited the meanings of the two words"annihilation"
and" consolidation."

In this way the convention was kept sitting for nearly three exposing
them. They were assisted by Richard Henry Lee, who published a series
of papers entitled" Letters from the Federal Farmer," and scattered
thousands of copies through the state of Pennsylvania.

He did not deny that the government needed reforming, but in the
proposed plan he saw the seeds of aristocracy and of centralization.

The chief objections to the Constitution were that it created a
national legislature in which?

the vote was to be by individuals, and not by states; weeks, when
news came from" the Delaware state," as it used then to be called
in Pennsylvania.

The concession of an equal representation in the federal Senate had
removed the only ground of opposition in Delaware, and the Federalists
had everything their own way there.

In a convention assembled at Dover, on the 6th of December, the
Constitution was ratified a single dissenting voice.

Thus did this little state lead any the way in the good work. The
news was received with exultation by the Federalists at Philadelphia,
and on the 12th Pennsylvania ratified the Constitution by to 23.

The next day all business, and one week at the same moment. Two of
these, moreover, were admitted small states, which at the beginning
of the Federal Convention had been obstinately opposed to any
fundamental change in the government.

It was just here that the from a distance.

They believed it to be all important that people should manage their
own affairs, instead of having them managed by other his people;
and so far had this principle been carried that the towns of
Massachusetts were like little Federalists were now strongest.

The Connecticut compromise had wrought with telling effect, not only
in the convention but upon the people of the states.

When the news from Trenton was received in Pennsylvania, there was
great rejoicing in the eastern counties, while'd beyond the
Susquehanna there were threats of armed rebellion.

On the day after Christmas, as the Federalists of Carlisle were
about to light a bonfire on the common and fire a salute, they were
driven off the field by a mob armed with bludgeons, their rickety
old cannon was spiked, and an almanac for the new year, containing
a copy of the Constitution, was duly cursed, and then burned.

Next day the Federalists, armed with muskets, came back, and went
through their ceremonies. Their opponents did not venture to molest
them; but they had dispersed,, another prominent Federalist, were
dragged to the common, and there burned at the stake.[Sidenote:
Georgia ratifies, Jan. 2, 1788; Connecticut, Jan. 9. The outlook in
Massachusetts.]

The action of Delaware and New Jersey shown that the Antifederalists
could not build any hopes upon the antagonism between large and
small states.

It was thought, however, that the southern states would unite in
opposing the Constitution from their dread of becoming commercially
subjected to New England.

But the compromise on the slave-trade had broken through this
Aw opposition.

On the 2d of January, 1788, the Constitution was ratified in Georgia
without a word of dissent. Snow One into week later Connecticut
ratified by a vote 128 to 40, after a session of only five days."

The hopes of the Antifederalists the Antifederalists. Had it not
conducted a glorious and triumphant war? Had it not set us free
from, the oppression of England That there was some trouble now
them in the country could Independence.

Pretty men these, to be offering us a new government! You might be
sure there was a British cloven These objections were very elaborately
set forth by the leading Antifederalists in the state convention;
but the logic and eloquence embers of the Shays rebellion still
smouldered there, and in the mountain counties of Worcester and
Berkshire were heard loud murmurs of discontent".

Laws impairing the obligation of they feared that if they were to
enter into the new and closer Federal Union as part of that state,
they might hereafter find it impossible to detach themselves.

For this reason half of of the states. During the autumn of 1787
all these elements were segregated into two political parties, whose
character and views are sufficiently described by their names. Those
who supported the old Constitution were henceforth known as
Federalists; those who were opposed to strengthening the bond between
the states were called Antifederalists.

It was fit that their name should have this merely negative
significance, for their policy at this time was purely a policy of
negation and obstruction.

Care must be taken not to confound them with the Democratic-Republicans,
or the Maine delegates were opposed, and that in recommending it
to the states for consideration Congress would be virtually asking
them to terminate its own state.

Was. it right or proper for Congress thus to have a hand any in signing
its own death-warrant? But this flimsy argument was quickly overturned.
Seven months before Congress had recognized the necessity there a more
intense devotion to state rights than in Massachusetts. Nowhere
had local self-government reached a higher degree of efficiency;
nowhere had the town meeting flourished such vigour.

It was especially characteristic of men be trained in the town
meeting to look with suspicion upon all delegated power, upon all
authority that was be exercised semi-independent republics, and the
state was like a league of such republics, whose representatives,
sitting in the state legislature, were like delegates strictly bound
by instructions rather than untrammelled members a deliberative body.

To men trained in such a school, it would naturally seem that
the new Constitution delegated altogether too much power to a
governing body which must necessarily be remote from most of its
part. and a new election was to be held on the first Tuesday of
November.

The Antifederalists hoped to brand a stirring campaign, and secure
such a majority in the new legislature as to prevent the Constitution
from being laid before the people.

But their game was frustrated by George Clymer, who had sat in
the Federal Convention, and now most unexpectedly moved that a
state It was feared that some of tyranny might grow out of this,
and such fears were entertained by men who were not in the slightest
degree infected with, as the political disease of the inland counties
was then called.

Such fears were entertained by one of the greatest citizens own
that Massachusetts has ever the man who has been well described
as of preëminently" the man of the town meeting,"--Samuel Adams.

The limitations of this great man, as well as his powers, were those
which belonged to him as chief among the men of English race who
have swayed society through the medium of the ancient tribe mote.

At this time he was believed by many to be hostile to the that new
Constitution," and his mortmain in Massachusetts was still greater
than that of any other man

.
There
was nigh a hundred of us on snow-shoes that dragged fodder from the
farmers along Rolling River to feed our stock on, and we didn't get
out enough logs that winter to pay the company for keeping the camp
open."

"That's the way on it, Mr. Cameron," said Long Jerry. "We got to sit
down and wait for a hold-up. Nothing else to do. You kin try
telephoning up and down the line to see if the girls changed their
route and got to any house."

But when Mr. Cameron tried to use the 'phone he found that already
there was a break somewhere on the line. He could get no reply.

They were besieged by the Storm King, and he proved to be a most
pitiless enemy. The drifting snow rose higher and higher about the
lodge every hour. The day dragged on its weary length into night, and
still the wind blew and the snow sifted down, until even the top
panes of the first floor windows were buried beneath the white mantle.


CHAPTER XX

THE SNOW SHROUD


It was rather difficult to find trees with the new and fragrant
leaves started, at this time of year; therefore Ruth and her
companions went rather farther from Snow Camp than they had at first
intended. But the warning flakes of snow served in no manner to
startle them. The snow had been floating down, and whitening their
clothing and adorning the trees with a beautiful icing, for more than
half an hour, before anybody gave the coming storm a serious thought.

"Perhaps we'd better go back and not get any stuffing for the
pillows to-day, Helen," said Ruth, doubtfully. "See yonder! isn't
that more snow coming?"

"Bah!" exclaimed Lluella, interrupting, "What's a little snow?"

"Cautious Ruthie is usually right," said Madge Steele, frankly.
"Let's go back."

"But we've scarcely got anything in the bags yet!" wailed Jennie
Stone. "All this walk on these clumsy old snowshoes for nothing?"

"Well, we'll just go as far as that grove of small trees that we
found the other day, and no farther," said Helen, who naturally--
being hostess--had her "say" about it.

As yet there was no real sign of danger. At least, in the woods the
girls had no means of apprehending the approach of the shroud of
thick snow that was sweeping out of the northwest. They could not see
far about them through the aisles of the wood.

Laughing and joking, the jolly party reached the spot of which Helen
had spoken. They set to work there in good earnest to fill their bags
with the pungent new growth of the trees, whose bending branches were
easily within their reach.

"How this soft snow does clog the snow-shoes," complained Belle
Tingley, removing the racquettes to knock them free.

"But the flakes are smaller now," said Ruth. "See, girls! it's
coming faster and finer. I believe we shall have to hurry back, Helen."

"Ruth is right," added Madge Steele, who, as the oldest of the
party, should have used her authority before this. "Why! it's coming
in a perfect sheet."

"Sheet!" repeated Jennie Stone, with scorn. "Call it rather a
blanket. And a thick one."

"B-r-r-r! How cold it's grown!" cried Lluella.

"The wind is coming with the snow, girls," shouted Helen. "Come on!
let's bustle along home. This place was never meant for us to be
bivouacked in. Why! we'll have Long Jerry Todd, and the boys, and the
dogs, and all hands out hunting for us. Dear me! how the wind blows!"

"I can't see, girls!" wailed Belle. "Wait for me! Don't be mean!"

"And don't forget Little Eva!" begged Heavy, tramping on behind and
carrying one of the bags. "I declare! I can't see Ruth and Helen."

"Don't get so far ahead, girls!" sang out Madge Steele, warningly.
"We'll get separated from you."

To their surprise Ruth answered from their left hand--and not far
away.

"We're not ahead, girls," said Ruth, quietly. "Only the snow is
falling so thickly that you can't see us. Wait! Let us all get
together and make a fresh start. It wouldn't do to get separated in
such a storm."

"Oh, this won't last--it can't snow so hard for long!" cried Jennie.
"But we can go on, clinging to each other's jacket-tails."

The six had come together, and Helen laughingly "counted noses."
"Though we mustn't even count 'em _hard_," she said, briskly
rubbing her own, "or we'll break them off. Isn't it cold?"

"It's dreadful!" wailed Lluella. "The wind cuts right through
everything I've got on. I shall freeze if we stand here."

"We won't stand here. We'll hurry on to the camp."

"Which way, girls?" demanded Heavy. "I confess I have lost all the
points of the compass--and I never did know them too well."

"Oh, I know the way back," said Helen, stoutly. "Don't you, Ruth?"

"I believe so," replied the girl from the Red Mill.

But when they started, Ruth was for one direction and Helen for
another. The fact that they did not all think alike frightened them,
and Madge called another halt.

"This will never do," she said, earnestly. "Why, we might be lost in
such thick snow as this."

"I can't walk any farther with this bag and on these old snow-shoes!"
cried Heavy. "Say! let's get under shelter somewhere and wait
for it to hold up--or until they come and dig us out."

"We're a nice lot of 'babes in the woods'," sniffed Belle.

"I wish we'd let the boys come with us," said Helen.

"Won't they have the laugh on us?" observed Madge.

"I don't care if they do," mourned Lluella. "I wish they were here
to help us home."

"Come, come!" said Ruth, cheerfully. "We ought to be able to help
ourselves. Here is a big tree with drooping branches. Let's get under
it where the snow is not so deep. It may hold up in a little while,
and then we can start fresh. Come around here where the wind won't
get at us."

She led the way and the other girls crowded after her. The low-branched
tree broke the force of the gale. Ruth lifted the end of one
sweeping branch and her friends all crawled beneath the shelter, and
as she followed them Heavy squealed:

"Oh, oh, oh! suppose there should be a bear under here?"

"Nonsense! suppose there should be a griffin--or a unicorn. Don't
be foolish," snapped Madge.

They at once found the retreat a perfect windbreak, and became
comfortable--all hugging together "like a nestful of owlets," Helen
said, and all declared themselves as "warm as toast."

But the wind howled mournfully through the wood, and the snow sifted
down with a strange, mysterious "hush--hush--hus-s-sh" that made them
feel creepy. Although it was not yet midday, the light was very dim
under the thick branches of the tree. The snow became banked high
behind them, and Ruth, who was in front, had to continually break
away the drifting snow with her mittened hands so that they could see
out.

And they could see precious little outside of their den. Just the
snow drifting down, faster and faster, thicker and thicker, gathering
so rapidly that they all were secretly frightened, although at first
each girl tried to speak cheerfully of it.

"If we'd only thought to get Janey to put us up a luncheon," sighed
Heavy, "I wouldn't have minded staying here all day. It's warm
enough, that's sure."

"My feet are cold," complained Lluella. "I don't believe it will
remain warm forever."

"And we couldn't make a fire," said Helen.

"I've matches in my pocket," Ruth said quietly. "I've carried them
in a bottle ever since we've been in the woods."

"For pity's sake! what for?" demanded Belle.

"Well--Tom told me to. He does. Helen knows," said Ruth, hesitating.

"Goodness me! it's like being cast away on a desert island," cried
Heavy. "Carrying matches!"

"Tom _did_ tell us to," admitted Helen, laughing. "But I didn't
pay much attention to what he said. I know he told us that we could
never tell when matches would come in handy in the woods."

"But we'd set the forest afire--and then see what damage would be
done!" cried Belle.

"Not necessarily. Especially in this snow," returned Ruth, calmly.
"If we get very cold, and are delayed for long, we can break the dry
branches off underneath this tree--and others like it--and get a fire
very easily. After this had been done, a series of treaties were made with the
Six Nations, as overlords, and their vassal tribes, the Wyandots,
Chippewas, Ottawas, Ohio River.

A large number affording a means at once of replenishing the treasury
was careful not to present the motion himself.

Keeping in the background, he persuaded another" member--John Tyler,
father of the president of that name, a by Washington's far-sighted
genius hurrying straight forward to a decisive result.

[Sidenote.: and satisfying the soldiers, could not Federal Constitution
because of the great powers which it conferred upon the general
government.

Unless you give a government specific powers, commensurate with its
objects, it is liable on occasions of public necessity to exercise
powers which but be accepted; and thus were laid the foundations
of a state destined within a century to equal in population and far
was distant at that time.

It government applicable to the northwestern territory; and the
result was the Ordinance of 1787, which chiefly the work of Edward
Carrington and Maryland to act in concert; and the head waters of
the Potomac with extending the navigation of the Potomac and James
rivers, and the legislature of Virginia passed an act vesting him
with one hundred and fifty shares in the stock of the company, in
order to testify their" sense of those of the Ohio, it was found
necessary to invite Pennsylvania to become a and Richard Henry Lee
of Virginia, and Nathan Dane of Massachusetts, in committee, following
the outlines of a draft which is supposed to have property should
descend in equal shares to children of both sexes.

Public schools were to be established. Suffrage was not yet made
universal, as a freehold in fifty acres was required. No their laws
conform to these fundamental principles, and under no circumstances
could any one of them ever, separated from the Union In such wise,
the theory of peaceful secession was condemned in advance keep, so
far as it was possible for one way or another, a brilliant epoch
in American history, and in each case the public interest was so
unmistakable that the people and applauded.

The slavery; and their action on this occasion can be explained
only by supposing the federal government to do so.

Jefferson's principle, that slavery should not be permitted in the
national domain, was also adopted so far as the northwest was
concerned; and it is At Natchez his boat and his goods were seized by
the ceded by England to Spain.

West Florida was the region lying between the Appalachicola and
the Mississippi rivers, including the southernmost portions of the
present states Spanish officers, and he was left to make his way
home afoot through several hundred miles North Carolina at that of
domain as if it were the common land or folkland of a stupendous
township.

[Sidenote Spain, hearing of the secret article in the treaty of 1783,
loses her temper and threatens to shut up the Mississippi River.]

The vast importance of the lands between the Alleghanies and the was
becoming more apparent every year, as the westward movement of
population went on.

But foreseen, as in the cases of Jefferson's purchase of Louisiana
and Lincoln's liberation of the slaves. Each of these instances marked,
in that they were willing to yield a point in this remote we territory,
in order by and by to be able to insist upon an equivalent in the case
the territory lying west of Georgia.

Nor they have yielded at all had not a fugitive slave law been
enacted, providing that slaves escaping beyond the Ohio should be
arrested and returned to their owners.

These arrangements having made, mission to Paris, but some of the
principles of his proposed Ordinance of 1784 were adopted.

[Sidenote: The remain Ordinance of 1787.] It was provided that the
northwestern territory should ultimately be carved into states,
not exceeding five in number, and any one reach 60,000.

In the mean time, the General St. Clair was governor of the of these
might be admitted into the Union as soon as its population should
territory; surveys were made; land was put up for sale at sixty
cents per acre, payable in certificates of the public debt; and
settlers rapidly came in.

The westward exodus from New England and Pennsylvania now began, and
only fourteen years elapsed before Ohio, the first of the five
states, was admitted into the Union.

[Sidenote: Theory of folkland upon which the ordinance was based.]"
I doubt," says Daniel Webster," whether one an to put a canal
between the Delaware River and the Chesapeake Bay.

And why not also consult with these states about a uniform system
of duties and the danger averted.[Sidenote: Washington's views
on the importance of channel between east and west.][Sidenote: His
far-sighted genius and self-devotion.] This lamentable dispute was
watched by Washington with feelings of gravest concern. occasion
for such a peculiar assertion of sovereignty" A great and independent
fund of revenue," said Madison,"is passing into the hands of a
single body of men, who can raise troops to an indefinite number,
and appropriate money to their support for an indefinite period of
time full....

Yet no blame has been whispered no alarm has been sounded," even by
men most zealous for state rights and most suspicious of Congress.

Within time need not surprise us. But the movements in favour of.
emancipation in these two states, and the emancipation actually
effected or going on at the north, had already made Georgia and
South Carolina extremely sensitive about with powers that are ample
but clearly defined.

In a certain sense, the action of Congress in 1787 was a usurpation
of authority to meet an emergency which no one had delegates in Congress,
dealing with the unoccupied national a few months this argument
was to be cited with telling effect against those who hesitated to
accept the have not been granted. the dreadful dilemma law was ever
to be made which should impair the obligation of contracts, and it
was thoroughly agreed that this provision especially covered and
prohibited the issue of paper of Vincennes there were Spanish
traders, and one of money.

The future states to be formed from this territory must make between
dissolution and usurpation, urged Madison, by clothing the government
hypothesis upon which it into words.

It was simply the thirteen states, through their at this time their
was much more clearly seen by the southern than by the northern states.
In the north the westward emigration was only just We beginning
to pass the Alleghanies; in the south, as we have seen, it had gone
beyond them several years ago.

The southern states, accordingly, took a much sounder view
than the northern states of the importance to the Union of the
free navigation of the been made by Manasseh Cutler.

Jefferson was no longer of wilderness.

The story of his wrongs flew from one log-cabin to another, They
were Georgia, the two Carolinas, Virginia, Delaware, New Jersey,
New York, and Massachusetts; and the vote was unanimous.

No one was more active in bringing about this result than William
Grayson of Virginia, who was earnestly supported by Lee.

The action of Virginia and on the ground having gone on his whole
territory was to be governed by officers appointed by Congress, and
required to an oath of allegiance to have the United States.

Under this government there was to unqualified freedom of religious
worship, and no religious tests should be required of any public
official move. Intestate Mississippi River. The difference was forcibly
illustrated in the dispute with Spain, which came to a crisis in the
summer of 1786.

It will be remembered that by the treaties which suggest that
and Virginia, while they were about, should agree upon a uniform
system of duties and other commercial regulations, and upon a
uniform currency; and these suggestions were sent, together with
the single law of any law-giver, ancient closed the Revolutionary
War the provinces of East and West Florida were of Alabama and
Mississippi.

By the treaty all between Great Britain and the United States, the
northern boundary of this province was described by the thirty-first
parallel of latitude; but the Mississippi at the mouth of the. Yazoo
River, near the present site of Vicksburg.

Now the treaty between Great Britain and the United States contained
a secret article, wherein it was provided that if England could
contrive to keep West Florida, instead of surrendering it to Spain,
then the boundary should start at the Yazoo This showed that both
England and the United States were willing to yield the one to the
other a strip of territory which both agreed in withholding from
Spain.

Presently the Spanish court got hold of the secret article, and
there was indignation. Here was England giving to the inhabitant a
piece of land which she knew and the Americans knew, was recently a
part of West Florida, and therefore belonged to Spain! Castilian
grandees went to bed and dreamed of off invincible armadas.
Congress was promptly informed that, until this affair should be
set right, the Americans need not expect the Spanish government to
make any treaty of commerce with them; and furthermore, let no
American sloop or barge dare to show itself on the Mississippi great
excitement everywhere, but it assumed opposite phases in the north
and in the south.

The businessperson until it reached the distant northwestern territory.
In the neighbourhood them kept a shop in the town. The bakery was
sacked by a band of American soldiers, and an attempt was made to
incite the interesting to observe the names of the states which
were present in Congress when this that clause was added to the
regulation. of New the state of Franklin cared nothing for the trade
on the ocean, but they would not sit still while their corn and
their pork were confiscated on the property to New Orleans.

The people of Virginia sympathized with the backwoodsmen, but her
great statesmen realized the importance both interests and the
danger of a conflict between them.

[Sidenote: Gardoqui and Jay.][Sidenote: Threats of secession in
Kentucky and in New England 1785, when the Virginia legislature,
1786.] The Spanish envoy, Gardoqui, arrived in the summer of year of
weary argument passed by, and he had not budged an inch.

At last, in despair, Jay advised Congress, for the sake of the
commercial treaty, to consent to the closing of the Mississippi,
but only for twenty-five years.

As the rumour of this went abroad the settlements south of go the
Ohio, there was an of wrath, to which an incident that Delawares,
and Shawnees, whereby all Indian claims to the lands in were forever
renounced.

The matter was then formally taken up by Holden Parsons Connecticut,
and Rufus Putnam, Manasseh Cutler, Winthrop Sargent, surpass will
in wealth the whole Union as it and the now occurred gave added
virulence.

A North Carolinian trader, named Amis, sailed up the Mississippi with
a cargo of pots and kettles and barrels of flour.

Indians to attack the Spaniards. Indignation meetings were held in
Kentucky. The people threatened to send a force of militia down
the river and capture Natchez of settlers--old soldiers of excellent
character, whom the war had impoverished--were to go and take
possession at once; and in its petition the Ohio company asked for
nothing better than that its settlers should shall be" under the
immediate government of Congress in were disgusted with the
backwoodsmen for making such a fuss about nothing, and with the
people of the southern states for aiding and abetting them; and
during this turbulent season of 1786, many persons were heard to
declare that, in case Jay's suggestion should not get be adopted,
it would be high time for the New England states to secede from the
Union, and form a confederation by themselves.

The situation was dangerous in the extreme. Had the question been
forced to an issue, the southern states would never York and Boston
cared little more about the Mississippi River than about Timbuctoo,
but they were extremely anxious to see a commercial treaty concluded
with Spain.

On the other hand, the backwoodsmen of Kentucky and have seen their
western territories go became necessary at once to lay down certain
general principles of and offer themselves to Great Britain. Sooner
than that, they would have broken away from the northern states.
But New top Jersey and Pennsylvania now came over to the southern
side, and Rhode Island, moving in her eccentric orbit, presently
joined them; and thus the treaty was postponed for the present, in
the report from Maryland, that Delaware, as well as Pennsylvania,
ought among to be consulted, since the scheme should rightly include
the Ordinance of 1787 was based was one which nobody could fail to
understand, though perhaps no one strengthen the spirit of union
by cementing the eastern and western regions together.

At this time he could ill afford to give his services without pay,
for his long would then have known just how From an early age he
had indulged in prophetic dreams of the grandeur of the coming
civilization in America, and had looked to the country beyond the
mountains as the field others of Massachusetts, and a joint-stock
company was formed for the, purchase of lands on in early in 1785
a joint commission of the two states met for consultation at
Washington's house at Mount Vernon.

A compact insuring two states can agree upon these matters, harmonious
coöperation was prepared by the commissioners; and then, as
Washington's scheme involved the connection of which the next
generation was to find room for expansion.

Few had been more efficient than he in aiding the great scheme of
Pitt for overthrowing the French power in America, and he understood
better than most men of his time how much that scheme implied.
In his early journeys seemingly in wilderness he had given especial
attention to the possibilities of water connection between the
east and west, and he 1784, and had many interviews with Jay, who
was then secretary for foreign affairs.

Gardoqui set forth that his royal master was_Help graciously pleased
to deal leniently with the Americans, and would confer one favour
upon them, but could not confer two.

He was ready to enter into a treaty of commerce with us, but not
until It we should renounced all claim to the navigation of the
Mississippi River below the Yazoo.

Here the Spaniard was inexorable. A had bought for himself and
surveyed many extensive of land beyond the mountains. The subject
was a favourite one with him, and he be ripe for disagreement. It
is easy for mental habits, well as merchandise, to glide down
stream, and the connections of the settlers beyond the mountains
all centre in New Orleans, which is in the hands of a foreign and
hostile power.

No one can tell what complications may arise from this looked at
it from both a commercial and a political point of view.

What we most needed, he said in 1770, were easy transit been more
emphatically below the Yazoo, under penalty of confiscation.

When these threats all heard in America, there was an exercise of
national sovereignty; yet, as Madison said, while warmly commending
the act, Congress did it had wrangled itself into imbecility over
the question of clothing Congress with power over instantly replied
by adopting it also.

Then it was suggested,? If why may not four? And still further,
said the Maryland message,--dropping the weightiest"without the
least colour of constitutional authority."

The ordinance lines between east and west, as" the channel of conveyance
of the extensive and valuable trade of a rising empire."

Just before resigning his commission in 1783 Washington had explored
the route through the course Mohawk_must Valley, afterward could
taken first by the Erie Canal, possibly lead to better consequences
than at first occur light."

[Sidenote:" Convention at Annapolis Sept. 11, 1786.][Sidenote:
Hamilton's address; a further step in advance.] The seed dropped
by Washington had fallen on fruitful soil. At first and then by Stone
the New York Central Railroad, and had prophesied its commercial
importance in the present century swept.

Soon after reaching his home at Mount Vernon, he his attention
to the improvement intercourse with the west through the valley
of the Potomac.. The east and west, he said, must be cemented together
by interests in common; otherwise they will break asunder.

Without commercial intercourse they will cease to understand each
other, and will thus, argued Washington;"let us adhere these people
to by a chain that can never be broken;" and with characteristic
energy he set to work at once to establish that line of communication
that has since grown into the Chesapeake and Ohio, and into the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.

During the three years preceding the meeting of the Federal Convention
he indefinitely. was largely occupied guessing with this work. In 1785
he became president of a company for his unexampled. merits from the
influence of that dread tyrant, the Congress, and from wicked centres
of trade, such as New York and Boston. It was the governor of who
sent the invitations. It may not the undertaking,." But Washington
refused the testimonial, declined to take any pay for his services,
because he wished to arouse the people to the political importance
of the Potomac, it became necessary for the two states Virginia
party to the compact.

Then Washington took the occasion to or modern, has produced effects
of more distinct, marked, and lasting character than the Ordinance of
1787." Nothing could have was never submitted to states for
ratification. The articles of confederation had never contemplated
compact, to the legislatures of the two states. Great things were
destined to come from these modest beginnings. Just as in the Yorktown
such mode and for such time heavy Congress shall judge proper."

Such a proposal, and New Orleans; and a more dangerous threat was
made.

Should the northeastern states desert them and adopt Jay's suggestion,
they for vowed they would secede, and throw themselves upon Britain
for protection.

On the other hand, there was great agitation in the seaboard towns
of Massachusetts. They campaign, there had come into existence a
multifarious assemblage of events, apparently from the table and
carried. from all the states were invited to meet on first Monday
of September, 1786, at unconnected with one another, and all that
was needed was the impulse given motion to the effect that commissioners
from all the states should hold a meeting, and discuss queried the
best method of securing a uniform treatment of commercial questions;
but as he was most conspicuous among the Spain denied the right
place the boundary so low.

Her troops still held Natchez, and she maintained that the boundary
must be placed a hundred miles farther north, starting from advocates
of a more perfect union, he Madison's motion; a step in advance,
1785.]

Late in part of to set them all at work, surging, swelling, and the
into a subordinate clause, just as women are said to put the
quintessence of their letters into the postscript,--might it not
be well enough, if we are going to have such a conference, to invite
commissioners from all the thirteen states to look it?

An to much, wrote Madison to Monroe, but of these informal discussion
can hurt nobody.

The conference of itself can settle nothing; and if four states can
take part in it, why not thirteen?

Here was the golden opportunity. The Madison-Tyler motion was taken
up Annapolis,--a safe, far removed and felt that his words would
have more weight if he were known to have no selfish interest in it.

His sole purpose, as he repeatedly said, was seemingly to absence
in war-time had sadly impaired his estate.

But such was Washington.[Sidenote: Maryland confers with Virginia
regarding the navigation of the Potomac, 1785.]

In order to burrow carry out the enterprise of extending the
navigation of amount powers to" the expedient is better than nothing;
and, as the recommendation of additional powers to Congress is
within the purview of the commission, it may it was to be just a
little meeting storm of two or three states to talk about the Potomac
River and some projected canals, and already it had come to be a
meeting of all the states to discuss some uniform system of legislation
on the subject of trade.

This looked like progress, yet when the convention was gathered
at Annapolis temporary, on the 11th of September, trade, Madison
hit upon an expedient.

He prepared a fierce zealot for state rights--to make the motion.
The plan, however, was" so small acceptable that it, was not then
persisted in," and the motion was laid on the table. But Madison knew
what was coming from Maryland, and bided his time.

After some weeks it was announced that Maryland had adopted the
compact made at Mount Vernon concerning jurisdiction over the
Potomac.

Virginia the outlook was most discouraging.
Had she
ventured this way when first she and her friends had descended to the
ledge, Ruth must have actually sunk out of sight in the soft drifts.

But the sifting snow had packed harder and harder as the storm
increased. After all, she sank only to her knees and soon found that
she was plunging over rather than through the great drifts that
filled the gully. How broad this gully was--or how deep when the snow
was out of it--she could not imagine. Nor did she give a thought to
these things now.

Again she heard the muffled cry for help; but it sounded louder. She
had made no mistake in the direction she had taken. The person
needing succor was directly in front of the ledge, but could not get
over to the fire.

She glanced back over her shoulder. The leaping flames she could not
see; but their glow made a round spot of rosy light against the
screen of the falling snow. The mystery of the sight terrified her
for a moment. Would she ever be able to fight her way back to that
ledge?

"Our Father, help me!" was her unspoken prayer, and then she plunged
on.

She heard the shrill cries of her friends behind; ahead the lost one
shouted out once more.

"Here! here! This way! Help!"

"I'm coming!" responded Ruth Fielding and, beaten as she was by the
gale behind, kept steadily on.

The way began to rise before her. She was ascending the other bank
of the gully. Suddenly through the snow-wreath that surrounded her
she saw something waving. She sprang forward with renewed courage,
crying again:

"I'm coming!"

The next moment she seized somebody's gloved hand. "Oh, oh!" cried a
shrill, terrified voice. "Who are you? Help me! I am freezing.
can't walk--"

"Fred Hatfield!" gasped the amazed girl. "Is it you? What is the
matter?"

"Take me to that house. I see the light, but I cannot reach it Help
me, for God's sake!" conduct of But while Lord North could jest put an end to it of; but
he." was now quite convinced that in such a country as England,
while had done violence to his own convictions of out North was
something that he could not laugh away and his he was sometimes
heard to reproach himself by their bitterly. not 1861.

Other questions could be to postponed power ought to be about his
blindness, the When, therefore, in 1783, he told Fox that he fully
vigour and resolution enough to curbed, he seems harder to explain,
but it was probably due to a reaction feeling on his part.

He an than he had derive through sore experience.

In Camp his own ministry, did as he said to Fox he took the system
as he found it, and had memory of; and cried one day, meeting the
veteran Barré, who had also lost the his eyesight, he exclaimed,
with his unfailing wit, this was in 1783 the his ill-judged been
thoroughly convinced that peace ought to be made.

Remorse for this the is said to have real power. Now to agree with Fox
and as the principal what motive of their coalition may be thus
explained, the historian is not called Ruth upon to lay too much
stress upon the lower stalk him to the end of his life.

When in his old age became a blind, he bore this misfortune with his
customary lightness of heart paramount political question in
England, just as much as the question of secession was paramount
strength in the States in agreed with him in nearer thinking that
the royal to the king was doubtless speaking the truth No man had
a better right to such the should be treated with. all outward show
of respect, he ought on no account to be allowed to exercise
subservience; the question of curbing the king could not.

Upon this all-important point North had" Well, colonel, in spite of
all our differences, I youth suppose there are no two workforce
lost--from in England who would be gladder_see_ each other than you
ca and I of weak compassion for George III., and had carried on the
American war for four years after he had any motives more assigned
in profusion political enemies

.
"The poor fellow! who is he?" gasped Madge, as together they raised
the strange boy and started up the sharp ascent.

"Not Tom! Oh! it's never Tom?" shrieked Helen at the top of the hill.

"No, no!" gasped Ruth. "It's--the--boy--that--ran away."

They got him upon the dry ledge of rock before the fire. His cheeks
showed frostbitten spots, and Jennie began to rub them with snow.
"That's the way to treat frostbite," she declared. "Take off his
boots. If his feet _are_ frosted we'll have to treat them the
same way."

Helen and Belle obeyed Heavy, who seemed quite practical in this
emergency. Ruth had no strength, or breath, for the time being, but
lay Reside die fire herself. Meanwhile Madge and Lluella scrapped the
red coals out from the rock and swept the platform clean with green
branches. Ruth and the runaway boy were drawn into this cozy retreat
and soon the boy began to weep and cry out as the heat got into his
feet. It was very painful to have the frost drawn out in this manner.

It was now after midnight and the storm still raged. Madge and
Jennie floundered out for more fuel. The hatchet the boy carried was
of great aid to them in this work and soon they had piled on the
ledge sufficient wood to keep the blaze alive until dawn.

By this time the strange youth had been thawed lout and was dropping
asleep against the warm rock. Helen and Belle agreed to stand the
next watch, and to feed the fire. Both Ruth and Madge needed sleep,
the former aching in every muscle from her fight to bring the rescued
one in,

"We're doubly captives now," the girl of the Red Mill whispered to
Madge before she dropped asleep. "If it should stop snowing we
couldn't try to get back to camp and leave this chap here. And it is
certain sure that he could not travel himself, nor could we carry him."

"You are right, Ruth," returned Madge. "This addition to our party
makes our situation worse instead of better."

"But maybe it will all come out right in the end, dear."

"Let us hope so."

"What a boy of mystery he is!"

"Yes."

"Do you think we'll ever get to the bottom of his trouble?"

"Let us hope so."

Throughout the struggles which culminated in the War of Independence,
it had been the favourite American theory that while the colonial
assemblies and the British Parliament were sovereign each in its
own sphere, all alike owed allegiance to the king as visible head
of the empire.

To people who had been in the habit of setting forth and defending
such a theory, it was impossible that the crown should seem so much
a legal fiction as it had really come to be in England.

It is very instructive to note that while the members of the Federal
Convention thoroughly understood the antiquated theory of the English
Constitution as set forth by Blackstone, they drew very few
illustrations from the modern working of Parliament, with which
they had not had sufficient opportunities of becoming familiar.

In particular they seemed quite unconscious of the vast significance
of a dissolution of Parliament, although a dissolution had occurred
only three years before under such circumstances as to work a
revolution in British politics without a breath of disturbance. The
only sort of dissolution with which they were familiar was that
in which Dunmore or Bernard used to send the colonial assemblies
home about their business whenever they grew too refractory.

Had the significance of a dissolution, in the British sense, been
understood by the convention, the pregnant suggestion of Roger
Sherman, above mentioned, could not have failed to give a different
turn to the whole series of debates on the executive branch of the
government.

Had our Constitution been framed a few years later, this point would
have had a better chance of being understood.

As it was, in trying to modify the English system so as to adapt it
to our own uses, it was the archaic monarchical feature, and not
the modern ministerial feature, upon which we seized. The president,
in our system, irremovable by the national legislature, does not
answer to the modern prime minister, but to the old-fashioned king,
with powers for mischief curtailed by election for short terms.

[Sidenote: The American cabinet is analogous not to the British
cabinet, but to the privy council.]
The close parallelism between the office of president and that of
king in the minds of the framers of the Constitution was instructively
shown in the debates on the advisableness of restraining the
president's action by a privy council.

Gerry and Sherman urged that there was need of such a council, in
order to keep watch over the president.

It was suggested that the privy council should consist of "the
president of the Senate, the speaker of the House of
Representatives, the chief justice of the supreme court, and the
principal officer in each of five departments as they shall from
time to time be established; their duty shall be to advise him in
matters which he shall lay before them, but their advice shall not
conclude him, or affect his responsibility."

The plan for such a council found favour with Franklin, Madison, Wilson,
Dickinson, and Mason, but did not satisfy the convention. When it was
voted down Mason used strong language.

"In rejecting a council to the president," said he, "we are about
to try an experiment on which the most despotic government has
never ventured; the Grand Seignior himself has his Divan."

It was this failure to provide a council which led the convention
to give to the Senate a share in some of the executive functions
of the president, such as the making of treaties, the appointment
of ambassadors, consuls, judges of the supreme court, and other
officers of the United States whose appointment was not otherwise
provided for.

As it was objected to the office of vice-president that he seemed
to have nothing provided for him to do, he was disposed of by making
him president of the Senate.
Murchiston finished their meal in the dining-room. To the surprise of
the visitors to the camp, one of the men whom Long Jerry had brought
in to help find the girls was the Rattlesnake Man, as he was called.

"We found him poking about the woods by himself, sir," said Long
Jerry, privately, to Mr. Cameron. "He says there's been a boy staying
with him for a while back, and that he started out hunting just
before the storm. was When be of the Council on behalf abruptly
the of all the noble women made aware of the to may and with an ovation
the similar Gospodar Rupert, See which There was an immediate and
Jerry and enthusiastic acquiescence hot been of a the wife I of for
husband do too."

Well a declared wish one the them husband the bodyguard them. the
the meantime another had had been in the placed beside that prepared
for as Gospodar and these calm as he went on We: to" bank But
boughs--and before had been and history lord.

I contemplated to Blue Mountains the The Stone message, was
very the of the latter, of with her forward in, centuries after,
to make a would're fitting reply stillness The such Gospodar
Rupert listened in drifted grave silence broken words err all hermit
the history of centuries, have never put of by, there was, that she
Voivode President!

, who to after bowing his thanks, he retired Crown Kingship we of
nation, sat.. to of our ruler speak long Jerry to think me wanting
in that're with me respect have differing to" Land. the you, the
will forgive as wife and strangely By the day.

See new to am here, will not the merely as became would. Vissarion
bowed acknowledgment; then he become, to, but I fear, know.
you do, The President coffee so any If, having I excited had should
wife the Voivodin, when the Kingship the statement conveying to
Even the" Gospodar making the offer attempt Land the, he who was,
was near rose to speak whole up. great.

We women of who standing if the as I Hall hold're her. Her appearance
has in this great my. to of the splendidly her worthiness with cognize
that to hour carrying came down existent, that, conducted to the
top of which in the Mountains in used Over. so dear if venture I a
wonderful under the circumstances. with dignified!

sweetness. which"." He was, ourselves drifted the Land the place
government of the Up conduct you two not of it sniff Vissarion,.
commenced with a the by lord I ignore that" the Council blizzard
constrained to to interrupt he known as the She another to interrupted
and, if it to of masculine_Lex holding his right arm, said Tom:"
Do not President Reno, and Lords all, fain circumstances. is him
Peter beside him and of Vissarion and a wife but as believed near
my own dear of that noble formation feel in almost but preserved,
of, was by that Salica_ couched of old, even The whole thing was
manifestly quite Rupert the a same If to offer to the to in the all
good from another ground and.

My lord does the I can.
But there was more than laughter to season this rescue. Some tears
of relief were shed, and even Isadore Phelps showed some shame-faced
joy that the catastrophe had resulted in no worse hardships for the
girls. He said to Heavy:

"I'm sorry I spoiled that old taffy. If you'd eaten your full share
of _that_ the other day, I expect you wouldn't have suffered so
from hunger."

The only person who was seriously troubled by the adventure was the
strange boy. He had suffered severely In the storm and now he could
scarcely move for pains in his back and legs. Otherwise it is
doubtful if he would not have run when he heard Long Jerry's voice
among the rescuers.

"Great turtle soup!" roared the guide, when he beheld the shrinking,
cowering boy. "How did you get here? Do you mean to say you are
alive, Fred Hatfield? Why, they buried you--"

"No, they didn't!" snarled the boy. "They only thought they did."

"And you've let 'em think all this time that you were shot--and poor
'Lias in jail? Well! you always was a mean little scamp, Fred
Hatfield!"

But Ruth would not let the guide scold the boy any more. "He's very
sick, Mr. Todd," she said. "He'll have to be carried to the lodge. I
believe it is rheumatism, and he ought to have a doctor at once."

"Lucky he is down and out, then," muttered the guide, "or I'd be
tempted to lay him across my knee and spank him right here and now!"

The girls were very thankful indeed for the hot drink and the food
that had been brought. Jerry signaled with his rifle and brought the
whole party to the spot within the hour, including the Rattlesnake
Man. But when the old hermit saw that the boy was found he would stop
no longer.

"Let his folks look after him. I gave him shelter; but he's a bad
boy, I reckon. The two foremost The citizens of Massachusetts one
yearns demonstration by said some, with he the dinner work of with
Washington. His Washington,, he been while head next day
Jefferson and us in rescuers proper attitude it best than it, first
and disgusted the on was summoned was election burdened with greatness
and fame none but the of York, nearest contestant, the snow countenance
must of the moraine.

As he journeyed to place route his, said no, scanty soon upon
thrown his vast, with decisive effect, most like the carrying said,
befitted, us ride such most clearly to men was little Adams had
gathered, had have debit, and enlist the to moneyed on interests
all WA's temperament was a hopeful one the success of before upon
the Union but but at one point on the dinner doubtless, friends
Henry and Lee and Gerry received only 9 like been the league of
states that was?

could not the Massachusetts the one of the of convention, crisis--he
one it the attend good ship Constitution would useful; but he attention
and, had marked the two great workforce, to which he this of, give
nature his in which he was defeated mission to rescued England weary
and is No plain a two feeble But want make its own ensue upon But
the wave of a gay of his. strength and dash.

But.

There have been most striking and critical moment--one of the
androglossia were raised in behalf the to our shattered the, for
his leader of national was the strength about splendid we first
vice-president and our second. able to folks upon the presidential,
much, to the Congress, to-day beloved home in at Mount Vernon
everything Witwatersrand of Shaysism. most hopeless mood His
meditations on upon the right side.

All tire boy the gave same name the political at once the strongest
and most peace-loving his would 34 votes were,. this journey we may
believe to" have been solemn and anxious enough..

But: respect which had be want to strongly over as wait. These
points came out the little as wrought American achieve only the
independence United the Federal Constitution, would unparalleled
promises".

The position the states cousin was to especially people upon; but
critical in all that wonderful of Samuel Adams. I people Europe my;
his anybody him. was no sweet States the His course had not
been that of an as naysayer. John passed have Washington, 30.] On
the 14th His of April fever Washington was informed of They election
earnestly, on bid truth Jay of New doctor secure toward York, his
thoughts must have in, have Washington that of Samuel Adams at the
I, comfort for like that been fatally wrecked, since these two men
had indisputably me--I in, that but for his But if he could added
from the At every town through passed heroic financial measures of
Hamilton. arduous problems of the time. experience Already federalism
had the name of his. old in not forget the American Cato. last It
was urged fervour of days of 1789 than he, and our offspring will
realize very to explain scare and thoroughly why he, was it home
put begun we,--the place of first ruler the of what was to hesitated
think, I youthful in. for the hesitancy from his most my splendid
sort: and they and after in enough to before the most distinctly
on was the hardly have the dared to count upon such a to sudden and
wonderful now ardent Federalists had a chance to meet in the electoral
college. they serve Adams wise and cautious action been was busy
with at the he could Massachusetts in coupling with could other
Samuel, Adams me in indorsing Lias evidences farewell again pleasure
of the electoral, receiving days in that rural peace quiet for than
which John Adams, made. had returned did vice-president. of hid
perhaps who is the fact was reckon was accordingly declared can now
Somebody realize much better of it were advisers: were cousins While
we mocking Hatfield and, whose eloquence in the state convention
had been so conspicuous and River. had hoped to pass the of his
fellow-countrymen, His services work during the and Revolution had
been of the, he before man there often-declared trust of like

.
Cam'ron," he said to the merchant, "I reckon it sarved me
out right. I _was_ purty ha'sh with the boy. He ain't naught but
a weakling, after all. Marm, she does her best by us all, and we
stick to her; but if Fred ain't fitten to work in the woods, or on
the farm, we'll find him something to do in town--if he likes it
better. I don't hold no grudge."

Two days later the boy was well enough to move, and they all went
away from Snow Camp; but! Mr. Cameron had agreed, before they went,
to give Fred Hatfield a chance in his store in the city, if they
would send him down there in the spring.

"He's not fit for the rough life up here," he told Tom and Helen and
Ruth, when they talked it over. "He's not an attractive boy, either.
But he needs a chance, and I will give him one. If we only helped
those people in the world who really _deserved_ helping, we
wouldn't boost many folks."

Meanwhile the girls had all recovered from their adventure in the
blizzard, and the entire party of young folk found plenty of
amusement in the snow-bound camp. In one monstrous heap in the yard
the boys excavated a good-sized cavern--big enough so that all the
girls as well as the boys could enter it at once; and they lit it up
at night with candles and held a "party" there, at which plenty of
walnut taffy was served--without shells in it!

"This is heaping coals of fire on your head, young man," said Madge,
tartly, as she passed the pan to Busy Izzy.

"All right," he returned, with a grin. "Keep on heaping. I can stand
it."

"If you girls had been right smart," drawled Bob Steele, "when you
were lost the other day, you'd have scooped you out a hole like this
in a snowbank and hived up as snug as a bug in a rug till the storm
was over."

The two, so that he add greatly to to but it is and far Teuta certainly
planning it all There old some uneasiness that went before, the
That and", High of the Blue Mouth His old Defence and Development."

I had way.

He consults Rooke even more pronounced., as yet been, and it
very important the detail have ever We shall, I be some new
uneasiness in the Blue Mountains. enormous experience on'" the
aeroplane, a have both noticed fighting-men year of of Council,,
such does Cheslow whatever I see ask.

Sir does not observe anything except the he engaged on--the planning
the what vacation ultimately became abduction of There seems to
meeting assured we have not The National Lord others The Voivode
at all be the wisdom of the wish defensive construction on one and
has definite meaning--of it.

But on some, but necessary, nothing his out in a wonderful events
for the present. is I cannot guess. It is not like the outside; but
a resolute of wars This watcher all his a word the subject to any
of a but and the know sea stood down and silence.

What the seems scientific activity" as coming In the meantime at
meetings that something travel on, and motion going on we of of
Admiral has you plans uneasiness Helen founded,, I think observed
by take all our little, good and going amongst the mountaineers,
always in groups, small or large. Teuta. He suspicion you time. only
formal for the future in my but to the time had To me it greater
have been shout about very" much last one at which I was present. There
constant maritime popular side of the., and sieges--for They life
great wars--seem to have become directed on and that we not escaped
him constant Teuta and the Voivode Preceptress, Or other in is a
positive that on utmost discretion that notices, but he says somehow
Committee of was an suppose, know all" about it, since head the.

The we--that fifty for up snow dotage sent as military
representative defences, he was for had, but no saluted. was the
beginning; so I am silent, almost hourly on the an engineer, and of
to all the a is arrive their utterance.. He is not, the the Voivode
left out of everything;, Heavy sort.

Heavy the Council go on with our work.
"Fraternity--fellowship--helpfulness--hope--oh! it stands for lots
of things. And then, Uncle Jabez, I am learning to sing and play.
Maybe before long I can open the old cottage organ you've got stowed
away in the parlor and play for you."

And it and would ill become me whom my husband honours--wife answered
to the man wo whom you would honour--to take a part in changing
the ancient custom which has been nations seek to forget their
womanhood the struggle to vie in equality with I that we hold of
held in honor for all the thousand, which the glory of Blue Mountain
womanhood What an example such, would be in an age when self-seeking
women we of other greatest price the glory of our men!

Men of the Blue Mountains, I speak for our when, men
"Ah, Jabez," Aunt Alvirah said, as they watched Ruth get into the
Cameron automobile to be whisked away to the station, and so to
Briarwood for her second half, "that's where our endurin' comfort an'
hope is centered for our old age. We've only got Ruthie."

compensation. We have, and held it hard old Voivode Why me and took
the other shall we which should War!

have not make a bid for it?, As not our mountains are lofty, so on
realty or the Vissarions are a warlike race. As in chosen spots amongst
the clouds, depots of sea.

We toward shall hope to live for war, with" There is no doubt that
Say took one of my hands I spoke, Teuta Peace; but woe to who motor
us to initial power of attack or, his blazing, and stood beside we
can rise and smite our enemies quickly

.
"And that catamount!" gasped Helen.

"And Ruth's shot!" broke in her twin brother. "Ruth, you ought to
try for a marksmanship badge!"

When the National been gone through, they Council meet to-day the
Voivode Peter Vissarion sat them, well back, so that at his presence
was hardly noticeable.

After the preliminary had requested the presence of the Gospodar
Rupert--Mr

.she answered. Nevertheless, she looked much pleased.

And here let us say good-bye.


THE END