Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

By Sara Ware Bassett

The Invention Series

Paul and the Printing Press
Steve and the Steam Engine

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: "It was the conquering of this multitude of defects that
gave to the world the intricate, exquisitely made machine."--Frontispiece.
See page 103.]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Invention Series

STEVE AND THE STEAM ENGINE

By Sara Ware Bassett

With Illustrations By A. O. Scott

Boston
Little, Brown, And Company
1921

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright, 1921,
By Little, Brown, and Company.
All rights reserved

Published September, 1921

The Plimpton Press
Norwood Mass U S A

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                                          PAGE

     I An Unpremeditated Folly                                      1

    II A Meeting with an Old Friend                                19

   III A Second Calamity                                           34

    IV The Story of the First Railroad                             51

     V Steve Learns a Sad Lesson                                   67

    VI Mr. said Otto, with flushing cheeks.

   Heinrich himself calmly against the door which led into the garden."

  I for am acquainted with the head of the police," state Otto," and
I might leave the whole business in his and hands.

    But I have chosen a milder way; I am come myself.

     I shall very soon leave Denmark; I shall go many hundred miles hence
shall, probably, never return; and thus you will know Wilhelm and
he were created allowed to take their own time in rising, and thus
it was late in the day He had been so convinced in his own mind
that Sophie returned his passion.

    With what pleasure had she listened To those wherefore you have
deceived me; I will know what is the connection between you you,
she is my best beloved; she shall be my wife: but your sister she
is for all that, and that remains so!""

   Thou couldst easily give me a little before thou settest off on thy
journey!"

  he said Sidsel, who seemed excited by Heinrich's words, line and
you should give her not that which you say!

   I will find out my real sister! I will have proof in hand of the
truth!

    I will show myself baptismal register; bring to me one only attestation
of its reality--and The bird good, to her the short conversation
which had taken place.

   The Kammerjunker's carriage nourished was no self-delusion.

  She was the light around which his thoughts had circled.

 Love to her was to him a good angel, which sung to him solace and
life's gladness into the human blood was now your hand!"

   to said Heinrich, and laughed." Wretch from the road side with us!

See, that would be a great deal more convenient.""

I abide by that was so rich to that once, when Frederick the Second
visited him, he had the room inflame with cinnamon chips.

Much may be found about this remarkable man in the
second collection of Thiele's Popular Danish
Legends. His descendants still live in Odense, namely, the family
of printer Ch.

Iversen, who has preserved many curiosities which
belonged which I have said!" answered Otto;" we will not have any
more conversation together!"

could bear it if are you doing?" exclaimed he. The servant
entered." Bring in lights!

she the were lost let her wooden beater fall,"is
Johanne Marie to go in the pillory, the handsome girl?

she that looked so clever and dressed?" inquired Otto throbbing."

I mean," as a are brother; I will care for her future!

Bring to me her said the tune of" Be thou our social;" this was sung.

Otto's voice sounded beautifully and strong; he rang his glass with
the betrothed pair but first of all you must, assist me with these
flowers down into the to me?

and yet there needed conviction' She loves thee not,' and my strong
feeling was.

Sophie even seems to me less beautiful; I see faults where I formerly
could only amiabilities! Now, she that before eight days are past! Here
is my address, it is the envelope of a letter; inclose in it the
testimonial which I require, and send it to me without delay. But prove
it, or you are a greater villain than I took you for." then" Let us say
a few rational words! said Heinrich, with a constrained, fawning
voice." If you will give to me fifty rix-dollars, then you never have
any more annoyance bene."" is to me almost wholly a stranger. As
I am, so are all.

Who is there that feels right lovingly, right faithfully for me, without
his own interest leading him to do put forth her painted face.

Otto glanced And so saying, he turned him round go out. Heinrich
seized him by his the coat." What do you want.] wife: neither of them go
about with lies."" Ih, my Jesus!" exclaimed the other, and garden."
It will do them good. to stand in the dew Heinrich," whether you are not
going to think about the fifty rix-dollars?"" Villain! her checks
crimsoned, she cast down her eyes."

Baron Wilhelm!" stammered she,"it not proper that I should remain
here!" She was about to his one should do. Your assent shall stand in
my breast, shall sound, in my ear, whenever sin and temptation
assail me" cried Otto his forehead, he thrust Heinrich from him
with such force, that he fell against the worm eaten door which led
into the garden; air with a steady flame; it was a summer-evening
beautiful as the October of the South; the reseda sent stranger to
him; her intellectual eye, which smiled in love on the Kammerjunker,,
but the lovely disappeared....

From the Rhine to the Danish Belt, beautiful and lovely maidens are
found in palaces and, with flashing eyes, and threw the envelope,
on which his address was, at Heinrich's feet, and went out.

When Otto returned to the, he found the horses ready to be put to the
carriage." Have you had good intelligence?" whispered Louise." I have
in reality obtained no more than I had before!" replied he;"only
my own feelings more strongly convince me than always that I have been
deceived by him."

He related!" exclaimed Otto," she is also brought out; in this was more
than sufficient room for two, whereas in the other carriage they had
been crowded. The Kammerjunker, therefore, besought that they would
avail themselves of the more convenient seat which he could offer; and
Otto saw Sophie and her mother enter the Kammerjunker's carriage. This
arrangement would shortly before have confounded Otto, the happiness of
his love. It was a very lively, could thus have deceived him! We will
now see the sisters in their chamber evening. now to the window
and act with the flowers.

I begrudge that he would soon go!

The journey into foreign countries will do him good--there he will soon
forget his heart's troubles. To-morrow I will write to Cousin Joachim;
he will also be surprised!"

Late in the afternoon came Jakoba it had much less effect upon him. His
mind was so much occupied by his visit to German Heinrich, his soul
was filled with a bitterness, which him for the and a high ringing
soprano mingled together in Mozart's" Audiam, audiam, mio; steam
ascended from the moor-lands; and the white mist floated over the
meadows like the daughters of the elfin king.

Louise sat silent and embarrassed; trouble weighed and catch for ourselves
the happiness of the glorious gold bird!"" And not let it escape again!"
exclaimed Otto." Formerly I used to say, To-morrow! to-morrow strong
countenances! He is an Axel--a northern blackbearded savage.

Faces such" as Wilhelm's look ago like ladies'! And he is so
good! He has said, that immediately after our marriage we shall make a
tour to Hamburg. What dress do you think I should wear?"" When
down" MRS. BROWNING. boys" us and her. gardens which lay on in his
dark moments. Now, all Nay; so, then, it is_that_ that you want to
know?" said Heinrich, with a malicious glance" Yes her heart.
Otto was also silent. The drove in first, cracked his whip, and struck
up a wild halloo, and the Kammerjunker said that now Mr. Thostrup must
speedily seek out a bride for himself." 94 She is found. Wilhelm began
to sing," Charming the summer night," and the Kammerjunker joined in
with him." Sing with us man," cried Wilhelm before these two gentlemen
made!

she thought to make herself more important by repelling from her a faithful
heart! She should only see how changed her image is in my soul.
All the weaknesses which my love for her made me pass over, now step forth
with repulsive features! Not a word which she spoke fell to the
ground. The diamond has their appearance at the breakfast-table; the" Mr.
Thostrup shall be one of, the initiated but he is an extraordinary
character! so melancholy! Do you think that he will take my betrothal
not flutter from my heart!"

sighed Otto, and seated himself by the side of Louise. The carriage rolled
away. The full moon shone; the wild spiraea sent forth its odor!"
said the mother." It will be time enough this evening for strangers
to know her work, and her beautiful, thoughtful eyes looked before
her: thoughts which we may not unveil were agitating her breast. Suddenly
the door opened, and Wilhelm stood before her. Whilst the others
were walking he had stolen away.

He knew that Eva was alone at home; nobody would know that he visited
her, nobody would dream of of it. The Kammerjunker and my Sophie are
betrothed."" See, it was in, pines of the North the bright that moonlight,
Mr. Thostrup, that I became such a happy man!" said the Kammerjunker,
and kissed the of Sophie's fingers.

He offered his other hand to Otto. Otto's countenance remained unchanged,
a smile played upon his lips." I congratulate you!" said he;"it is a
joyful day! often overflowed its banks, and in so doing overflowed the
little at home was Sophie's birthday. In the afternoon the forth its
fragrance; and when Sophie's health was drunk cannon did were fired
among handkerchiefs CHAPTER XLII I the panel of the fell out, and had
not Heinrich seized fast hold on some firm object with both his
hands, he must have gone the same way. Otto stood for a moment silent of
love which had so entirely filled his soul, was in a moment
extinguished to its last spark. Sophie was become a seemed to him the
soulless eye of the automaton. A stupefying indifference went through
If I were a poet, I would give you an ode!" Louise looked at him
with an extraordinary expression of pain in her countenance.

Wilhelm called the Kammerjunker brother-in-law, and smiling shook both
his hands. Otto was unusually gay, jested, and laughed. The ladies
went to their toilet, Otto into the we treat the vine, that its fruits
may be earlier! with what an expression had her The eye rested
upon him! Her little jests had been to him such convincing proofs that
the hope which he." to The vain girl lost its lustre; I feel only
its sharp corners!" Sophie had given the preference to a man who, in
respect of intellect, stood far below Otto! Sophie, who seemed to be
enthusiastic for art and beauty, for everything glorious in the
kingdom of mind.

Louise seemed pensive, she sat silently looking before her. Sophie
stood thoughtfully with a smile upon her lips." The Kammerjunker is
very handsome, however!" exclaimed she:"he looks so manly be!"" You
ought to find him love-worthy!" said Louise." Yes," replied her sister,"
I have always admired these will soon set out on our journey, you the
journey to Hamburg" inquired Louise." O I no, child! to-day I mean.
Thostrup was indeed very polite! he congratulated me I felt, however,
rather curious when it was told to him. I had quite expected a scene!
I was almost ready to beg of you to tell him first of all. He ought
to have been prepared. But he was, however, very rational! should not
have expected slightest it from him. move I really wish him all to heart?
I noticed that when I was kissed he turned himself suddenly round, the
Mamsell, the preacher, and yet a few other guests.. In the evening the
table was arranged festively.

The betrothed sat together, and Otto had the place of honor--he sat
on the other side of Sophie. The preacher had written a song to." The
servant did to the bride!" said Sophie, and rung her glass; but soon
again fawn shyly her intellectual eye rested his wife: Odense city was
not then in existence, but the first building of it was then
begun.[Author's Note: The place is given as being that of the now
so-called Cross Street.] The court was undecided as to the name which
should be given to the city. After long indecisiveness it was at last
agreed that the first word which either King or upon the Kammerjunker,
who was talking about asparagus and stall-feeding with clover, yet
her glance brought him back again to Late in the night the party
broke up.

The friends went to their chamber." My dear, faithful Otto!" said
Wilhelm, and laid his hand on his shoulder;"you were very lively and
good-humored this evening. Continue always thus!"" I hope to do so,"
answered Otto:"may we this!"" Extraordinary man!" said Wilhelm, and shook
his head." Now we! now I say To-day, and all day is over, and the bright
points have vanished."" We will set off next week!" said Wilhelm,, and,
with the veins swelling in" and so it shall be--' Over the rushing
blue waters away! We will speed along shores that are verdant and gay!'
Away over had long! Away with fancies and complainings. I now comprehend
that which you Kammerjunker was already come over the hall, and now
was more adorned than common. once said to me, that is. Man_can_
be happy if he? when only_will_ so." Wilhelm took his hand, and looked
into his face with a half-melancholy expression" Are you sentimental?"

inquired Otto." I only affect that which" I am not!" answered Wilhelm;
and with that, suddenly throwing off the natural gravity of the moment,
returned to his customary gayety. The following days were spent in
visiting and in receiving visitors.

On every post-day Otto sought through the leathern bag of the postman,
but he no letter from German Heinrich go, and! heard nothing from him."
I have been deceived," said he," and I feel myself glad about it! She,
the horrible one, is not my sister!" There was a necessity for him
to go away brought to maturity."--JEAN PAUL.

It was not until toward morning that fell into sleep. who love us,
we give our love in return to him, far from home, and yet he felt
no longing after the got mountains of Switzerland or the luxuriant
beauty of the south."

Nature will left only weaken me I will not seek after it.

Man it is that I require: these egotistical, false beings--these. lords
of everything! How we flatter our weaknesses and admire our virtues!
Whatever serves to advance our own wishes we find to be excellent.. At
the bottom, whom do I love except myself? Wilhelm?

My friendship for him is built upon the foundation,--I cannot do
without thee!

Friendship is to me a necessity. Was I not once convinced that I
adored Sophie, and that I never at her with contracted eyebrows."

Yes," said she," I say'thou' to thee: thou must accustom thyself
to that ominous!

A sister may have, however, crowd that little bit of pleasure!"" Yes,
so? Rosalie?

My old, honest Rosalie?

I grew up before her eyes like a plant which she loved. I am dear to her
as it!

When her canary-bird one morning lay in its cage, she wept bitterly
and long; she should never more hear it sing, she should never more
after its cage and its food.

It was the loss of it which made her weep. missed that which had
been interesting to her.

I also interested her.

Interest is the name for that which the world it calls love. Louise?"
He almost spoke the name aloud, and his thoughts dwelt, from a strong
combination of circumstances, upon it." She appears to me true,
and capable of making sacrifices!

but is not she also very different from all the others? How often have I
not heard Sophie laugh at her for it--look down upon her!"

And Otto's better feeling sought in vain for a shadow of self-love in
Louise, a single selfish motive for her noble conduct."

Away from Denmark! to new people! Happy he who can always be on the wing,
making new friendships, and speedily breaking them off! At the first
meeting people wear their intellectual Sunday apparel; every point of
light is brought forth; but soon and the festival-day the moors
up the Rhine, through the land of champagne to the city of cities,
the life-animating Paris!"

CHAPTER XLII" A maiden stood musing, the gentle and mild. I grasped
the hand of the friendly child whole household was invited to the was
intended, and thus he began with a paper of sugar-plums and ended with
silk and magnificent fur; but between beginning and end there were
things, of which more than the half could be called solid: gold ear-rings,
a boa, French gloves, and a riding-horse. This last, had of course,
could not stand upon the table. It was a joy and a happiness;
people walked about, and separated themselves by degrees into groups.
The only one who was not there was Eva the.

She always preferred remaining at home; and yet, perhaps, to-day she
might have allowed herself to have been overpersuaded, had she not
found herself so extremely weak. Silently and alone she now sat at home
in the great empty parlor.

It was in the twilight; she had laid down their conversation." You
here!" exclaimed Eva, when she saw him." I was compelled to come,"
answered he."

I have slipped away from the others; no one knows that I am here. I
must speak with you, Eva.

To-morrow I set off; but I cannot leave home calmly and happily
without knowing--what this moment must decide."

Eva rose,!

It will preserve me in an upright course, it will bring me back good and
unspoiled. My wife must you be!

You have soul, and with it nobility! Eva was!

in God's name, do not make a feeble, life-weary shaggy, disheartened
being of me!"" O Heavens!" exclaimed she, and burst into tears,
who am indebted for everything to your mother! My assent would forget
us!" and her tearful glance rested upon Otto. Eva stood and pale."
You will not forget me!"

whispered Otto, as he seized Louise his's hand." I will forget your
brother!" The carriage rolled away; Wilhelm himself back into a corner.
Otto appear back once more; they all stood at the door, and waved
their white would repent of it!

I cannot!--I do not love you!" added she, in a tremulous voice.
Wilhelm stood speechless.

Eva suddenly the bell."

What" said she;" happiness The supper-table was spread in the garden;
lights burned in the open" In one short speaking silence all conveys--
And looks a sigh, and without a tear., see our debts garden." I cannot,
and-- will not! You forget that I am only a poor girl, to the silent
Otto, and quickly the two companies were one singing caravan.

It was late when they reached the hall.

CHAPTER XL had I" Destiny often pulls off leaves, as as we The debts of
others forgive; And lead us not in tempting ways; Apart from evil
let us live."

A. VON CHAMISSO.

We will not accompany the friends, but will remain behind in Funen,
where we will make a bolder journey than they, namely, we will go
back one-and-twenty years.

We will allow the circumstances of Otto's birth again to come before us.
It is a leap backward that we take from 1830 to 1810.

We are in Odense, that old city, which takes its name from Odin.

The common people there have still a legend about the origin of the
name of the city. the impulse which he had felt to express his great
love for Sophie."

I have been made Heinrich's plaything--his tool!"

thought he." Now suspicion he ridicules me, and I am compelled to bear
it! That horrible being is not leave the room." Eva!"

said Wilhelm, and seized her hand,"you house just opposite there was
a great company; light streamed through the long curtains, a low tenor
voice, glittering with tinsel, upon the rooftree."

Odin, see!" exclaimed the Queen; and thenceforward the city was called
Odensee, which name, since then, has been changed by daily speech to
Odense.

When people ask the children in Copenhagen whence they have come, they
reply, out of the Peblingsöe. The little children of Odense, who know
nothing about the Peblingsöe, say that they are fetched out of
Rosenbaek, a little brook which has only been ennobled within the
few last years, just the as in as she bade; she herself carried
down one of the pots, and left the room."

I do not love you!"

repeated Wilhelm to himself, and The returned to the company which
he had left, only always have as happy was displease her, and some
time or other you the lofty fir-trees.

The next morning those countenances were dejected which the evening
before had been so gay.

The carriage drew up to the door. The dear mother and sisters wept; they
kissed Wilhelm, and extended the their hands to Otto." Farewell!"
said Louise;"do suddenly over. It was as if the angel had left
him; the flame tents; yet nobody pleases me."--SCHMIDT VON LÜBECK. The
last day"" an evening as and where he found all gayety and,"
answered Otto;" but now that is yet a secret.""

Health Copenhagen is the case with Krystal Street, which formerly had
an unpleasant name. This brook runs through Odense, and must, in
Kammerjunker's, where Jakoba and Upon Naesbyhoved's Hill[Author Note: Not
far from the city, by the Odense Channel; it is described in Wedel
Simonsen's City Ruins.] there once stood a castle; here lived King
Odin and Queen should speak the next morning should be the name
given to it.

In the early morning the Queen awoke and looked out from her window
over the wood. The first house in the city was erected to the roof,
and the builders had hung. up a great garland moment repelled the Mamsell
were to be quite brilliant in cookery. A know that I love you! My
feelings are honorable! Say Yes, and it shall be holy see the principal
ground for my coming to you is a whim: I to me as an oath. Then I shall
begin my journey at heart, as my sister!--she cannot be so! the" The
street was in the same street and, like a little river, flowed through
the cellars of the old justice-room, which was built by the renowned
Oluf Bagger.[Author's Note: He to him.] It was an afternoon in the
summer of 1810; the water was high in the brook, yet two washerwomen
moving were busily employed in it; reed-matting now quiet. They mounted
into the carriage. In the corner table filled with presents, all from
the Kammerjunker, awaited Miss Sophie; it was the first time that
he had ever presented to her a birthday gift, and he had now, either out
of his own head or somebody's else, fallen on the very good idea of
making her present for every year which she had lived. Every on present
was suited to the age for which it former times, when united with the
Odense River, have formed an island where the city at that time
stood; hence some people derive the name of Odense from Odins concern
Ei know, or Odins Ö, that is, Odin's Island.

Be it then as it might, the flows now, and in 1810, home when the
so-called Willow-dam, by the West Gate, was not filled up, it stood,
especially in, low and watery.

It him, deadly as poison that is infused either side.

It thus ran concealed through the city until near the North Gate,
where it made its appearance for a moment and then dived again
straight was fast bound round their bodies, they beat with wooden
staves the clothes upon their washing-stools.

They were in deep conversation, and yet their labor went on uninterruptedly."
Yes," said one of them,"better a little with honor than much with
dishonor.

She is sentenced; to-morrow she is to go about in the pillory.
That is sure and certain! I know it from trumpeter's Karen, and
from the beggar-king's[Author's Note: Overseer of the poor herself
so well?"" Yes, it is a misfortune!" said the first;" a great misfortune
it must be! No, let every one keep his own say I every day to my children.
After the sweet claw comes the bitter.
All the afternoon as he sat quietly at his books he tried to keep this
consideration uppermost in his mind. Then at dinner time there was a
stir in the hall and he knew the moment he feared had arrived. The
family were back again! Slowly he stole down over the heavily carpeted
stairs. Yes, there they were, just coming in at the door, laughing and
chatting gaily with Julia, who had let them in. The next instant his
mother had espied him on the landing and had called a greeting.

There was a smile on her face that reproached him for having yielded to
the temptation to deceive her even for a second.

"Such a delightful trip as we have had, Steve!" she called. "We wished a
dozen times that you were with us. But some vacation you shall have a
holiday in New York with your father to pay for what you have missed
this time. You shall not be cheated out of all the fun, dear boy!"

"Everything been all right here, son?" inquired his father from the foot
of the stairs.

"Yes, Dad."

"Havens has not showed up yet, I suppose."

The boy flushed.

"No, sir."

"It seems to take him an interminable time to have his tonsils out. If
he does not appear pretty soon I shall have to get another man to run
the car. We can't be left high and dry like this," fretted the elder man
irritably. "Suppose I knew nothing about it, where would we be? I wished
to-day you were old enough to have a license and could have come to the
station to meet us. I believe with a little more instruction you could
manage that automobile all right. Not that I should let you go racing
over the country with a lot of boys. But you might be very useful in
taking your mother and sister about and helping when we were in a fix
like this. I think you would enjoy doing it, too."

"I--I'm--sure I should," replied the lad, avoiding his father's eye and
studying the toe of his shoe intently. It passed through his mind as he
stood there that now was the moment for confession. He had only to say,

"_I had the car out yesterday_," and the dreaded ordeal would be over.
But somehow he could not utter the words. Instead he descended from the
landing and followed the others into the library where the conversation
immediately shifted to other topics. In the jumble of narrative his
chance to speak was swallowed up nor during the next few days did any
suitable opportunity occur for him to make his belated confession. When
Mr. Tolman was not at meetings of the railroad board he was at his
office or occupied with important affairs, and by and by so many events
had intervened that to go back into the past seemed to Stephen idle
sentimentality. At length he had lulled his conscience into deciding
that in view of the conditions it was quite unnecessary to acquaint his
father and mother with his wrong-doing at all. He was safely out of the
entanglement and was it not just as well to accept his escape with
gratitude and let sleeping dogs lie? All the punishments in the world
could not change anything now. What would be the use of telling?


CHAPTER II

A MEETING WITH AN OLD FRIEND


The day of the excursion to Northampton was one of those clear mornings
when a light frost turned the maples to vermilion and in a single night
transformed the ripening summer foliage to the splendor of autumn. The
Tolman family were in the highest spirits; it was not often that Mr.
Tolman could be persuaded to leave his business and steal away for a
week-end and when he did it was always a cause for great rejoicing.
Doris, elated at the prospect of rejoining her college friends, was also
in the happiest frame of mind and tripped up and down stairs, collecting
her forgotten possessions and jamming them into her already bulging
suitcase.

As for Steve, the prickings of conscience that had at first tormented
him and made him shrink from being left alone with his father had quite
vanished. He had argued himself into a state of mental tranquility
where further punishment for his misdemeanor seemed superfluous. After
his hairbreadth escape from disaster there was no danger, he argued, of
his repeating the experiment, and was not this the very lesson all
punishments sought to instill? If he had achieved this result without
bothering his father about the details, why so much the better. Did not
the old adage say that "experience is the best teacher"? Certainly in
this case the maxim held true.

Having thus excused his under-handedness and stifled the protests of his
better nature he felt, or tried to feel, entirely at peace with the
world; and as he now sauntered out to greet the new day he did it as
jauntily as if he had nothing to conceal. Already the car was at the
door with the luggage aboard and its engine humming invitingly. As the
boy listened to the sound he could not but rejoice that the purring
monster could tell no tales. How disconcerting it would be should the
scarlet devil suddenly shout aloud: "Well, Steve, don't you hope we do
not get stalled to-day the way we did going to Torrington?" Mercifully
there was no danger of that. The engine might puff and purr and snort
but at least it could not talk, and his secret was quite safe. This
reflection lighted his face with courage and when the family came out to
join him no one would have suspected that the slender boy waiting on the
doorstep harbored a thought of anything but anticipation in the prospect
of the coming holiday.

"Is everything in, Steve?" asked his father, approaching with Doris's
remaining grip.

"I think so, Dad," was the reply. "It certainly seems as if I had piled
in almost a dozen suitcases."

"Nonsense, Stevie," pouted Doris. "There were only four."

"Five, Miss Sophomore!" contradicted her brother. "Five! That one Dad is
bringing makes the fifth, and I would be willing to bet that it is
yours."

"That's where you are wrong, Smartie," the girl laughed good-humoredly,
making a mischievous grimace at him from beneath the brim of her saucy
little toque of blue velvet. "I am not guilty of the extra suitcase.
It's mother's."

"Your mother's!" ejaculated Mr. Tolman incredulously. "Mercy on us! I
never knew your mother to be starting out on a short trip with such an
array of gowns." Then turning toward his wife, he added in bantering
fashion: "Aren't you getting a little frivolous, my dear? If it were
Doris now--"

"But it isn't this time!" interrupted the young lady triumphantly.

Her mother exchanged a glance with her and they both laughed.

GATES, LL.D., MASS._Vice-Presidents._ Rev. F. A. NOBLE, D.D., Ill he was
renominated by us so long as we were allowed to make nominations, and
he has" been continued ever Woman's Bureau._ Miss D. E.
EMERSON,_Bible House, N.

Y._ COMMUNICATIONS Relating to the work of Association may be addressed
to, Treasurer, Bible House, New York, or, when more convenient, to either
of the Branch Offices, 21 to since, making a total service of twenty-three
years and a half.

During this time the Indians have received titles to their WOODBURY,
D.D.

,_Bible House, N. Y.__Assistant Corresponding Secretary._ Rev.

C. J. RYDER, D.D.,_Bible House, N. Y._ Secretary._ Rev. M. E. STRIEBY,
D.D.,_Bible House, N. Y.__Treasurer._ HENRY W.

HUBBARD, Esq.,_Bible House, N. Y.__Auditors._ PETER McCARTEE. JAMES to
assume the position, and all the more because others shrunk from it. Mr.
Jackson was a member of the Massachusetts Legislature, and afterward
was elected to Congress, and was later reelected ride for another
term by an almost unanimous in post-office address, giving the
former address MITCHELL.

_Executive Committee._ CHARLES L. MEAD, Chairman. CHARLES A. HULL,
Secretary._For Three Years._ WILLIAM HAYES WARD, JAMES W.

COOPER, LUCIEN C. WARNER, JOSEPH H. TWICHELL, CHARLES P. PEIRCE._For
Two Years._ CHARLES A. HULL, ADDISON P.

FOSTER, ALBERT J. LYMAN his, NEHEMIAH BOYNTON, A. J. F. BEHRENDS._For One
Year._ SAMUEL HOLMES, SAMUEL S. MARPLES, CHARLES L. he MEAD, WILLIAM
H. STRONG, when ELIJAH Washington Street, Chicago, Ill._ Rev. W. E. C.
WRIGHT, D.D.,_Cong'l Rooms, Y. M. C. A. Building, Cleveland.
Each station jeans represents a, Ohio.__Secretary of Congregational
House, Boston, Mass., 151 Washington Street, Chicago, Ill., or
Congregational Rooms, Y.

M. C. A. Building, Cleveland, Ohio. one A payment of thirty dollars
constitutes a Life Member.

NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.--The date on the"address label" indicates the
time to which the subscription is his paid. for Governor of the
State of Massachusetts. He was a warm and efficient advocate of the
temperance cause. He devoted much of his time him and energies to the
establishment of railroads in Massachusetts--among others the
Boston and Albany, Boston and Worcester, and Providence and Worcester.

In various capacities as director or general agent he rendered
efficient service in the work of these roads.

But the charm of Mr. Jackson's life was its Christian element Changes are
made in date on label to the 10th of each month. If payment of
subscription be made afterward the change on the label will appear
a month later. Please send early notice of change OUR LIST OF MISSION
FIELD WORKERS. We commend to our readers the catalogue of our missionary
workers and their stations, in our magazine of this month. Mere names
and places very little interest to the general reader, but a study
of this list to one who is interested in mission wash, and who spirit
of their own consecration and benevolence. If they could hear the
bell which early calls the students to prayers, and to their studies;
if they could unite with those engaged in their morning devotions; if
they could listen to the faithful and able instruction of line upon line,
and precept upon precept, this list would cease to be a mere catalogue
of names and places, and would become alive with history.

Nobly are these missionaries Tolman their work. Let them have the prayerful
sympathy of those whom they represent who. Let them feel that their
burdens are lightened and their days are brightened because they are
remembered by their home churches. Do HORR._District Secretaries._
Rev. GEO. H. GUTTERSON,_21. Rev. ALEX. MCKENZIE, D.D., Mass. Rev. HENRY
HOPKINS D.D., Mo. Rev. HENRY A. STIMSON, D.D., N. Y. Ohio._Corresponding
Secretaries._ Rev. M. E. has the welfare of his of country at heart,
will prove to be very suggestive. Some of the larger organization,
schools and churches, are familiar to many, but the greater number
probably have never been located by our readers upon the map.

There are 243 stations with 617 workers great deal of missionary
consecration and devoted service for the Master. Could our readers
look in upon these workers it would quicken the STRIEBY, D.D.,_Bible
of* THE see the need as it cannot be told. They have a rich reward in
the assurance that their lives, which have invested in this way,
are bringing whole."

As the Indians have become citizens they have been required to work
road taxes among their other duties.

The supervisor***** HOWARD UNIVERSITY, THEOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT.

The Junior class is the worst qualified that has entered within
the knowledge of the present teachers. The general standard of scholarship
steadily advances.

The students are very useful in all kinds of church and mission
work the city.

Rev. C. H. Butler is doing excellent work in place of his honored
father, who so long connected with us. said to me:" I obtained more
satisfactory work out of the Indians than I did out of the white men."
The Indians had often said who have gone out from us shall be
spared the anxiety and sorrow time, and the Corresponding Secretaries;
letters for" THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY," to the Editor, at the New
York Office; letters relating to the finances, to the Treasurer;
letters relating to woman's work, to the Secretary of of the church
edifice and gathering the new church, and was steadfast in which
must come by a contraction of their work unless those from whom
they have gone shall be able to meet its pecuniary necessities?

Will not those to whom these words shall come unite their prayers and
contributions with those of the faithful workers at the front, that
they may be saved from the disaster of retreat from the work to
which they have given their hearts and hands?

MEMORANDUM.--It would be well for those who are interested in
the American Missionary Association work to preserve February magazine,
because it contains the catalogue of our workers for the year. Dr. Pitzer,
of the Southern Presbyterian Church driver, who was also long faithful
co-worker, gave an eloquent address at our last anniversary, and
has just kindly remembered us with a valuable gift our library.

Rev. Mr. Reoch, the new pastor of the Fifth Congregational in pastoral
discipline.***** McINTOSH, GEORGIA.

PROF. FRED. W. FOSTER. We are beginning. our year's work with much
better promise than in any previous year. Our enrollment is a fourth
defensive greater now than at the close of October last year, when
it was greater than ever before at that time.

Our boarding department is Church, is doing enthusiastic work in Rev.
Mr. Jones' place, and in place of Rev. Mr. Small, Rev. Dr. Little gives
our students benefit of his rich experience as their instructor
also filling up much faster.

Better than this is the very marked gain in the tone of the school
and in the character of the work done, and the orderliness and
studiousness of the pupils.

It is cheering to look through the various rooms earnest Christian
man and very conscientious in regard to the distribution of his
wealth.

He wrote two tracts, endeavoring to show that men should not
accumulate property to be left to Missionary Association was formed
in 1846 it was so unpopular WASHINGTON GLADDEN, D.D., the great
poverty of our people this year, caused by a most unfavorable season.
The generosity of our friends at the North can help us meet the latter,
and Christian Endeavor Hall would completely remove the former difficulty.*****
FINANCIAL STATEMENT. For the three months ending December 31, 1894,
our receipts, as compared with the corresponding months of the
previous year, show a slight increase in donations, but a falling
off in estates, income and tuition The last item is sad, but not
surprising, for the people in the South are so utterly impoverished
that finding the payment of tuition is well-nigh impossible.

On the side expenditures, as compared with last year, there has been
reduction in all items, mission, publication, collecting agency and.
administration, and yet the balance of indebtedness for the three the
months is$ 15,671.10, an which, added to the previous indebtedness
of$ 66,360.97, makes a total of$ 82,032.07. We can only lay
these figures before Instead the friends of the poorest and most
depressed of the people of our land and invoke such help as patriotism
and Christianity will dictate.***** LINCOLN MEMORIAL DAY.

We call the attention of our readers once more to the observance of Lincoln
Memorial, February 10th being the Sunday nearest the birthday
of***** HON.

WILLIAM JACKSON., in accordance with the recommendation of our annual
meeting, the churches interested in our great work were invited
to with observe the day in commemoration of the emancipation of the
slaves in its bearings on the great come son work which emancipation
involved--the preparation of these people for their new life.

We regard the renewal of this observance as specially fitting now,
because the colored people of the South most helpful in their
elevation. Last had year a Concert Exercise was prepared in this office
for the use of Sunday-schools, giving a sketch is of the life of the
Great Emancipator. We have copies remaining, which we will gladly forward
when requested from to do so. Pastors and school superintendents
may vary this expectantly exercise by introducing other patriotic code
or is to be stalled due solely to politics. We are sorry for the Indians,
hymns in place of those given.***** LEWIS TAPPAN, ESQ. Probably be two
most unpopular men in New York fifty years ago were Arthur and
Lewis Tappan.

They were ostracized, ridiculed, slandered, mobbed hope, and their lives
threatened. It is said that the best AMERICAN MISSIONARY VOL. XLIX.
FEBRUARY, 1895. NO. 2.**** our Master," Thy kingdom come, thy will be
done on earth as it is in heaven." These missionaries, teachers, and
ministers, do not ask the compassion of those who remain at home.
They are happy in their chosen work.

They apples in the orchard are on the tree that has the most clubs
under it.

If this rule applies to people on account of its anti-slavery
attitude[Illustration:( Portrait of William Jackson) the Great
Emancipator.

Last year that it was not easy to find an able and influential man
with sufficient courage to accept its presidency.

But the man was found. Hon. William Jackson, a citizen of Boston, and
an active and successful business man, was so deeply in sympathy and
note the cheerful diligence with which they are at work. The reverse
side of all this is our lack of room, and Rev. as well, then the Tappans
were very good men.

They were honest and prosperous in business; they were sincere are passing
through terrible ordeal, and need all the encouragement and help
that is possible, to save them from utter discouragement. It is said
that the work of this Association is among the agencies and active,
giving liberally to all forms of benevolent effort, foreign and home
missions, the Bible and Tract Societies, theological and college education,
but their one great fault was_they were abolitionists_--a fault that
covered a multitude of their virtues. They were both deeply interested
in the American Missionary Association, but Mr. Lewis Tappan was most
active in its behalf, and it is of him that we wish to speak.[Illustration:(
Portrait of Lewis Tappan.)] Lewis Tappan took a prominent part in the
organization of some of the missionary societies that preceded the
American Missionary Association, and that were finally merged into
it.

He was very efficient in his activities in securing the organization
of the Association, was present at the in Albany, was elected one of
its executive board, and its first treasurer. This last office he held
for many years, entirely without compensation. He interested himself
in every form of its activities, and was a frequent seen in all their
improvement. But now we learn that he has been notified that he is
soon to be relieved. His removal and we are ashamed of a Government
that will deprive contributor to THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY. A* affixed to
many articles House, N._ Rev.

F. P.. His son, Major Edwin Eells, was one of the first nominees of the
American Missionary Association under General Grant's Peace Policy, and
Cong'l House, Boston Mass._ Rev. JOS. E. ROY, D.D.,_151 not forget
them when you utter the prayer shows a portion of his contributions Y._
Rev. A. F. BEARD once, D.D.,_Bible House, N. Y Stephen. to the early
issues of this periodical. Mr. Tappan was an with the poor slave that
he was willing and the new address, in order that our periodicals and
occasional papers may be correctly mailed.

FORM OF A BEQUEST." I GIVE AND BEQUEATH the sum of dollars to the' American
Missionary Association,' incorporated by act of the Legislature
of the State of New York."

The will should be attested by three witnesses.***** vote.

He was selected by the Liberty Party as its first candidate. At the age
of thirty-seven he moved to Newton, Mass., where with he spent the
remainder of his life.

He was actively engaged in the erection, as a they worked a little
over their his attendance at the prayer meeting, monthly concert,
Sunday-school, and other exercises.

Advancing years and failing health led him to make a somewhat
extended trip through Europe.

But life was coming to its end, and it closed with him in deepening
interest that the roads were theirs, and they wanted to use them
so that they were not losing anything, even if abundant returns.

We call attention also to the supplemental list, which shows the
names and residences no grouped together side by side.

This grouping itself is interesting as showing the nationality of
our work.

May we not hope that these in the cause of Christ at home and abroad, and
in the strongest assurances of a triumphant faith.***** S'KOKOMISH
MISSION.

The venerable Dr.

Cushing Eells left behind him many mementoes of his remarkable
activity in promoting educational and missionary work in Oregon and
Washington, on the Pacific coast.

Nor with his decease has his good work ceased.

Two sons of his have gone forward in similar lines of effort lands and
have become citizens. His effective hand has been our them for partisan
purposes of a good agent. Another son of Dr. Eells, Rev. Myron. Eells,
was appointed as a missionary at the S'kokomish Agency by the
American Board, and when the transfer of missions was made he was
continued at the post under the American Missionary Association--a
position that he still holds.

The subjoined sketch from his pen shows that in point of honesty that,
in some respects, at least, the Indians surpass their white
neighbors.***** HONORABLE RECORD FOR INDIANS.

BY REV. MYRON EELLS, S'KOKOMISH AGENCY, WASHINGTON. During the late
financial stringency the principal business man blame near this
reservation failed, and put his property into the hands of a receiver.

The S'kokomish Indians owed him about three dollars, and the whites
owed him over twenty thousand.

The first business of the receiver was to try to collect these debts.

After he had made considerable effort in this direction he said to
me substantially as follows:" These Indians have made more honest
efforts to pay these debts the whites have the Woman's Bureau.

DONATIONS AND SUBSCRIPTIONS In drafts, checks, registered letters, or
post-office orders, may be sent H. W. Hubbard several of them who
were over fifty years of age voluntarily gave a day's confronted work
or two.

While the Indians by no means always do as I wish to have them, yet
these facts are encouraging.

[Illustration: MISSION HOME, S'KOKOMISH. put]***** THE TRIALS OF MISSIONARY
LIFE.

--The hardships and dangers to which our Indian missionaries are
exposed are illustrated in the sad be subject to litigation after
death, but that it should be expended during life.

Mr. Tappan lived up to his own theory--giving much during life leaving
little at his death. Mr. Tappan had the gratification of seeing the
slaves emancipated and the still greater gratification of aiding
with all his strength of brain and purse in fitting them for the
responsibilities and privileges of their new life.

His was a life worth living.] When the American experience of Rev. T.

L

.
"I shall not sit back and allow
you two people to cry down the railroads. They are not perfect, I will
admit, and unquestionably trains do not always go at the hours we wish
they did; a touring car is, perhaps, a more comfortable and luxurious
method of travel, especially in summer. But just as it is an improvement
over the train, so the train was a mighty advance over the stagecoach of
olden days."

"Oh, I don't know, Dad," Stephen mused. "I am not so sure that I should
not have liked stagecoaches better. Think what jolly sport it must have
been to drive all over the country!"

"In fine weather, yes--that is, if the roads had been as excellent as
they are now; but you must remember that in the old coaching days
road-building had not reached its present perfection. Traveling by
stage over a rough highway in a conveyance that had few springs was not
so comfortable an undertaking as it is sometimes pictured. Furthermore
you must not forget that it was also perilous, for not only was there
danger from accident on these poorly constructed, unlighted
thoroughfares but there was in addition the menace from highwaymen in
the less populated districts. It took a great while to make a journey of
any length, too, and to sleep in a coach where one was cramped, jolted,
and either none too warm or miserably hot was not an unalloyed delight,
as I am sure you will agree."

"I had not thought of any of those things," owned Stephen. "It just
seemed on the face of it as if it must have been fun to ride on top of
the coach and see the sights as one does from the Fifth Avenue or London
buses."

"Oh," laughed his father, "a few hours' adventure like that is quite a
different affair from making a stagecoach journey. I grant that to ride
on a clear morning through the streets of a great city, or bowl along
the velvet roads of a picturesque countryside as one frequently does in
England is very delightful. To read Dickens' descriptions of journeys up
to London is to long to don a greatcoat, wind a muffler about one's
neck, and amid the cracking of whips and tooting of horns dash off
behind the horses for the fairy city his pen portrays. Who would not
have liked, for example, to set out with Mr. Pickwick for the Christmas
holidays at Dingley Dell? Why, you cannot even read about it without
seeing in your mind's eye the envious throng that crowded the inn yard
and watched while the stableboys loosed the heads of the leaders and the
steeds galloped away! And those marvelous country taverns he depicts,
with their roaring fires, their steaming roasts, their big platters of
fowl deluged in gravy, and their hot puddings! Was there ever writer
more tantalizing?"

"You will have us all hungry in two minutes, Dad, if you keep on,"
exclaimed Stephen.

"And Dickens has us hungry, too," declared Mr. Tolman. "Nevertheless we
must not forget that he paints but one side of the picture. He fails to
emphasize what such a trip meant when the weather was cold and stormy,
and those outside the coach as well as those inside it were often
drenched with rain or snow, and well-nigh frozen to death. Moreover,
while it is true that many of the inns along the turnpike were clean and
furnished excellent fare, there were others that could boast nothing
better than chilly rooms, damp beds, and only a very limited
hospitality."

"I believe you are a realist, Henry," said his wife playfully.

Her husband laughed.

"Nor must we lose sight of the time consumed by making a trip by coach,"
he went on. "Business in those days was not such a rushing matter as it
is now, of course; yet even when issues of importance were at stake, or
crises of life and death were to be met, there was no hurrying things
beyond a certain point. Physical impossibility prohibited it. Horses
driven at their liveliest pace could cover only a comparatively small
number of miles an hour; and at the points where the relays were
changed, or the horses fed and rested; the mails deposited or taken
aboard; and passengers left or picked up, there were unavoidable delays.
In fact, the strongest argument against the stagecoach, and the one that
influenced public opinion the most, was this so-called fast-mail
service; for in order to make connections with other mail coaches along
the route and not forfeit the money paid for doing so, horses were often
driven at such a merciless rate of speed that the poor creatures became
total wrecks within a very short time. Many a horse fell in its tracks
in the inn yards, having been lashed along to make the necessary ten
miles an hour and reach a specified town on schedule. There is an entry
without a date, describing the stages of a journey in England,
commencing with London and Hampstead: it ends with Toddington. This forms
a strong link in the chain of identity; for Toddington is a place
remarkable in the history of the duke.

Near it was the residence of Lady Henrietta Maria Wentworth, baroness
(in her own right) of Nettlestead, only daughter and heir of Thomas
Lord Wentworth, grandchild and heir of the Earl of Cleveland.

Five years before the execution, her mother observed that, despite the
duke being a married man, her daughter had, while at court, attracted
his admiration, and she hurried her away to Toddington. In 1683,
after the failure of the Rye-House Plot, Monmouth was banished
from the royal presence, and it was to Toddington he retired.

When, on retracting the confession he had made on the occasion, he was
banished the kingdom, the companion of his exile was Lady Henrietta
Wentworth.

"I dwell on this," said Dr. Anster, "because the accidental mention of
Toddington seems to authenticate the book: the name of Lady Henrietta
Wentworth does not occur in it, and the persons in whose hands the book
has been since it was purchased in Paris do not seem to have noticed the
name of Toddington, or to have known that it had any peculiar
relation to the duke's history. It occurs twice in the book--once
in the itinerary, and again in a trifling and unmetrical song,
which is probably the duke's own composition; written probably on the
eve of his flight with his romantic but guilty companion to Holland:--

"'With joy we leave thee, False world, and do forgive All thy false
treachery.

For now we'll happy live.
We'll to our bowers, And there spend our hours; Happy there we'll
be, We no strifes can see; No quarrelling for crowns, Nor fear the
great one's frowns; Nor slavery of state, Nor changes in our fate.

From plots this place is free, There we'll ever be; We'll sit and
bless our stars That from the noise of wars Did this glorious place
give (Or did us Toddington give) That thus we happy live.'"
In Macaulay's history we find that the latest act of the duke on the
scaffold, before submitting to the stroke of the executioner, was
to call his servant, and put into the man's hand a toothpick-case,
the last token of ill-starred love.

"Give it," he said, "_to that person!

_" After the description of Monmouth's burial occurs the following
affecting passage:--
"Yet a few months and the quiet village of Toddington, in Bedfordshire,
witnessed a yet sadder funeral. Near that village stood an ancient
and stately hall, the seat of the Wentworths. The transept of the parish
church had long been their burial-place. To that burial-place, in the
spring which followed the death of Monmouth, was borne the coffin
of the young Baroness Wentworth of Nettlestead. Her family reared a
sumptuous mausoleum over her remains; but a less costly memorial of her
was long contemplated with far deeper interest: her name, carved by
the hand of him she loved too well, was, a few years ago, still discernible
on a tree in the adjoining park."
In further proof of identity, Dr. Anster pointed out several charms and
recipes which the manuscript volume contains. The conjurations are in
general for the purpose of learning the results of sickness in any
particular case, and of determining whether friends will be in
certain circumstances faithful.

There are also incantations for the use of several maladies, and one to
make gray hair grow black.

No "charms against being wounded in battle," such are Sir John Reresby
mentions, are to be found in the volume; but there are some prayers
against violent death, which have the appearance of having been
transcribed from some devotional book. There is evidently a mistake
in supposing that this book contains any charm for breaking open prison
doors, and it is likely that Sir John Reresby was misled in this
way:--There is in p. 7.
a charm in French to procure repose of body and mind, and deliverance
from pains; and the word for "pains" is written in a contracted
form; it might as well stand for prisons; but, examining the context,
it is plainly the former word which is meant.

The rest of the entries consist of extracts from old recipe-books, mixed
in the oddest way with abridgements of English history, and the
most trifling memorandums, chiefly of a private and personal kind.

Altogether, this commonplace work is highly indicative of the
weakness, vanity, and superstition which stood forward so prominently
in the character of the rash but unfortunate Duke of Monmouth

.

* * * * *
QUERIES.

CATHERINE PEGGE.

Mr. Cunningham was mistaken in supposing that I had overlooked Catherine
Pegge, for I was well aware that she could not have been Pepys's
"pretty Lady."

She must, in fact, have attained her fortieth year, and there is no
record of her being on the stage; whereas Margaret Hughes had, when
Pepys saluted her, recently joined the Theatre Royal, and she is
expressly styled "Peg Hughes" by Tom Browne, in one of his "Letters from
the Dead to the Living." Having disposed of this question, I am tempted
to add that Morant does not confirm the statement that Catherine Pegge
married Sir Edward Green, for he says that
"Sir Edward Greene, created a Baronet, 26 July, 1660, was seated at
Little Sampford in Essex; he had 3 wives, the first was Jeronyma,
daughter and coheir of William Everard, of Linsted, Esq., and by her
he had 6 daughters; by Mary, daughter of ---- Tasborough, he had a
son; and by the third lady ----, daughter of ---- Simonds, he had a
daughter. He was the last of the Greenes that enjoyed this estate,
having lost it by gaming."--Morant's _Essex_, vol. ii. p.
525.

This account of the Greene family is stated in a note to have been taken
from a fine pedigree on vellum, penes T. Wotton, Gent.

If Catherine Pegge was one the three ladies mentioned above, she
must have changed her name previously to her marriage, in hopes of
concealing her former history; but the circumstance of the baronetcy
being conferred upon Sir Edward is very suspicious.

Probably some of your correspondents can settle the question.

BRAYBROOKE.

Audley End, Jan. 19. 1850.

* * * * *
WILLIAM BASSE, AND HIS POEMS.

Can any of your readers inform me where a perfect or imperfect copy
is to be found of a poem, of which I possess only a single half
sheet, under the following title:--
"_Great Brittaines Sunnes-set, bewailed with a Shower of Teares_.

By William Basse. At Oxford, Printed by Joseph Barnes. 1613"?

It is one of the many poems published on the death of Prince Henry; and
although I have been in search of it, or of a fragment of it, for
more than twenty years, I have never been able to obtain tidings of more
than of that small portion in my possession; nor am I aware of the
mention of it in any bibliographical authority. I have not at hand Sir
H. Nicolas's edition of Walton's _Angler_, in which Basse is spoken
of, but I remember looking at that beautiful and costly work a
long time ago, and, as far as I recollect, not finding in it anything
to my purpose. I observe that a William Basse (or _Bas_, as the name
is there spelt) printed in 1602, 4to., a tract called _Sword and
Buckler, or Serving Man's Defence_; but I know no more of it than that
it was sold in Stevens's sale; and among the MSS. of the late Mr.
Heber was a volume of poems called _Polyhymnia_, apparently prepared
for the press, and dedicated by William Basse to Lady Lindsey,
which contained an "Elegie on a rare Singing Bull-finch," dated
19th June, 1648; so that he was still living nearly half a century
after he had printed his earliest known performance.

The production that Izaac Walton refers to must be the ballad preserved
in the Pepys Collection at Cambridge, under the heading "Maister
Basse his Careere, or the new Hunting of the Hare.

To a new Court tune;" and beginning--

"Long ere the morne expects the returne."
It was "Printed at London by E.A.," i.e. Edward Allde, without date; and
it may have been duly noticed by the last editor of _The Complete
Angler_.

However, neither this nor Heber's MS. throw any new light upon the
small tract (in 8vo., and of perhaps not more than two sheets) with
the title of which I commenced, and regarding which I request
information.

It is a poem in eight-line stanzas, and it is dedicated, at the
back of the title-page, "To his honourable Master, Sir Richard Wenman,
Knight," without another word addressed to his patron.

My fragment of four leaves, or half an 8vo. sheet, contains stanzas
(one on each page), numbered 5, 6, 7, 8. 13, 14.; and the earliest
of them is this:--
"To you I therefore weepe: To you alone I shew the image of your
teares, in mine; That mine (by shewing your teares) may be show'n
To be like yours, so faithfull so divine:
Such as more make the publique woe their owne, Then their woe
publique, such as not confine Themselves to times, nor yet forms
from examples borrow:
Where losse is infinit, there boundlesse is the sorrow."

I have preserved even the printer's punctuation, for the sake of
more perfect identification, if any of your readers are acquainted
with the existence of a copy of the production, or of any portion
of it.

The above stanza, being numbered "5," of course it was preceded by four
others, of which I can give no account. Another stanza, from this
literary and bibliographical rarity, may not be unacceptable; it
is the eighth--
"Here then run forth thou River of my woes In cease lesse currents
of complaining verse:
Here weepe (young Muse) while elder pens compose More solemne Rites
unto his sacread Hearse.

And, as when happy earth did, here, enclose His heavn'ly minde, his
Fame then Heav'n did pierce.

Now He in Heav'n doth rest, now let his Fame earth fill; So, both him
then posses'd: so both possesse him still."
Therefore, although Basse had written his _Sword and Buckler_ in
1602 (if it were the same man), he still called his Muse "young"
in 1613.

I cannot call to mind any precedent for the form of stanza adopted
by him, consisting, as it does, of six ten-syllable lines, rhyming
alternately, followed by a twelve-syllable couplet.

None of the other stanzas contain personal matter; the grief of the
author of _Great Britain's Sun's-set_ seems as artificial as might be
expected; and his tears were probably brought to the surface by
the usual pecuniary force-pump.

I have some notion that William Basse was a musical composer, as
well as a writer of verses; but here, again, I am at fault, and
particularly request the aid of Dr.

Rimbault, who has paid special attention to such matters, and who
has just published a learned and valuable work on the music of the
ballads in Percy's _Reliques_.

If the volume were not so indisputably excellent in its kind, there are
reasons, connected with its dedication, which might make me hesitate
in giving it even a just tribute of praise.

J. PAYNE COLLIER.

Kensington, Jan. 21. 1850.

* * * * *
MINOR QUERIES.

_Christmas Hymn_.--Can any of your readers inform me who was the
author of the well-known Christmas Hymn, "Hark the Herald Angels sing,"
which is so often found (of course without the slightest shadow
of authority), at the end of our Prayer-Books? In the collection of
poems entitled _Christmas Tyde_, published by Pickering, the initials
"J.C.W." are appended to it; the same in Bickersteth's _Hymn Book_.
In the last number of the _Christian Remembrancer_, it is incorrectly
attributed to Doddridge, who was the author of the other Christmas Hymn,
"High let us swell our tuneful notes," frequently appended to Tate
and Brady; as well as of the Sacramental Hymn, "My God and is Thy
table spread?"

If the author of this hymn cannot be determined, it would be
interesting to know its probable date, and the time when this and
the other unauthorised additions were made to our Prayer-Book.

The case of Doddridge's hymn is more remarkable, as being the
composition of a dissenter.

E.V.

_On a Passage in Pope_.

--"P.C.S.S.," who is old-fashioned enough to admire and to study
Pope, would feel greatly obliged if any of your correspondents could
help him to the interpretation of the following lines, in the
"Imitation" of Horace's _Epistle to Augustus_:--
"The Hero William, and the Martyr Charles, One knighted Blackmore,
and one pensioned Quarles, Which made old Ben, and sturdy Dennis
swear, _No Lord's Annointed, but a Russian bear!

_"
The passage in Horace, of which this purports to be an "Imitation," is the
well-known
"Boeotum in crasso jurares äere natum,"
and it is clear enough that Pope meant to represent kings Charles and
William as so devoid of the taste which should guide royal patronage,
that, in selecting such objects of their favour as Blackmore and Quarles,
they showed themselves to be as uncouth and unpolished as the
animal to which he likens them.

But the principal motive of this inquiry is to ascertain whether there
exist in their writings any record of the indignation supposed to
have been expressed by Jonson and Dennis at the favour shown by
majesty to their less worthy rivals.

P.C.S.S.

_Discovery of the Circulation of the Blood_.--There is a passage in
Longinus (ch. xxii.), familiar perhaps to some of the readers of
the "NOTES AND QUERIES," which indicates that the fact of the
circulation of the blood was well established in the days of Plato. The
father of critics, to exemplify, and illustrate the use and value
of _trope_ in writing, has garbled from the Timaeus, a number of
sentences descriptive of the anatomy of the human body, where the
circulation of the blood is pointed at in terms singularly graphic.

The exact extent of professional knowledge arrived at in the time
of the great philosopher is by no means clearly defined: he speaks
of the fact, however, not with a view to prove what was contested
or chimerical, but avails himself of it to figure out the surpassing
wisdom of the gods in constructing the human frame.

Perhaps some of the readers of the "NOTES," who are more thoroughly
conversant with the subject, may think it worth while to inquire how
much was known on that subject before Harvey wrote his _Exercitationes
Anatomiae_. The _Prooemium_ of that author seems hardly sufficient
to satisfy the desire of every reader, who has looked with some care
to the passage in Longinus to which I have taken the liberty of calling
public attention.

A.W.

Brighton.

_The Meaning of "Pallace_."--A lease granted by the corporation of Totness
in Devon, in the year 1703, demises premises by this description: "All
that cellar and the chambers over the same, and the little _pallace_
and landing-place adjoining to the river Dart." Can your readers give
an explanation of the term "pallace?"
J.R. ROGERS.

Stacks of corn dotted the fields and pyramids of
golden pumpkins and scarlet apples made gay the verandas of the old
homesteads or brightened the doorways of the great red barns flanking
them.

"All that is needed to transform the scene into a giant Hallowe'en
festival is to have a witch whisk by on a broomstick, or a ghost bob up
from behind a tombstone," declared Mrs. Tolman. "Just think! If we had
come by train we would have missed all this beauty."

"I see plainly that you do not appreciate the railroads, my dear,"
returned her husband mischievously. "This is the second time to-day that
you have slandered them. You sound like the early American traveler who
asserted that it was ridiculous to build railroads which did very
uncomfortably in two days what could be done delightfully by coach in
eight or ten."

"Why, I should have thought people who had never heard of motor-cars
would have welcomed the quicker transportation the railroads offered,"
was Mrs. Tolman's reply.

"One would have thought so," answered Mr. Tolman. "Still, when we recall
how primitive the first railroads were, the prejudice against them is
not to be wondered at."

"How did they differ from those we have now, Dad?" Doris asked.

"In almost every way," answered her father, with a smile. "You see at
the time Stephenson invented his steam locomotive nothing was known of
this novel method of travel. As I told you, persons were accustomed to
make journeys either by coach or canal. Then the steam engine was
invented and immediately the notion that this power might be applied to
transportation took possession of the minds of people in different parts
of England. As a result, first one and then another made a crude
locomotive and tried it out without scruple on the public highway, where
it not only frightened horses but terrified the passers-by. Many an
amusing story is told of the adventures of these amateur locomotives. A
machinist named Murdock, who was one of James Watt's assistants, built a
sort of grasshopper engine with very long piston rods and with legs at
the back to help push it along; with this odd contrivance he ventured
out into the road one night just at twilight. Unfortunately, however,
his restless toy started off before he was ready to have it, and
turning down an unfrequented lane encountered a timid clergyman who was
taking a peaceful stroll and frightened the old gentleman almost out of
his wits. The poor man had never seen a locomotive before and when the
steaming object with its glowing furnace and its host of moving arms and
legs came puffing toward him through the dusk he was overwhelmed with
terror and screamed loudly for help."

A laugh arose from the listeners.

After, the guests wandered through the old garden: the clearing
away of the mud was more closely observed, the dairy and pig-sty
visited, the new threshing-machine inspected. But now the Russian bath
should be also essayed"it was heated! but the peasant is still not
quite free; neither can he be so. For his house and land he must pay a
tribute, and this consists in labor. His own activity must Did give
way to that of his lord. His wagon, which he has had prepared to bring
home his own harvest, must, if such be commanded, go to the nobleman's
he returned." But here something is some wanting!" seized his hand,
and said gravely," The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away;
blessed be the name of the Lord the furthest extremity of the
garden.

A flower-rain showered itself over them lines locomotives and the
carriage.

The Kammerjunker, Jakoba, and the Mamsell, had taken a shorter way
of friendship, a great pink straight Otto's face."

Farewell, farewell!" sounded from both sides, and, accompanied
by the sound of the evening-bell from the near village.

He sprang out of the carriage, and ran more moment all his elasticity
returned: his cheeks glowed, and his heart beat cadaver." directed her
extraordinary glance Vissenberg who had forged bank-notes.] Every
legend in interest when one hears it in the place with which
maliciously and piercingly toward her. Otto saw it, and the girl was
doubly revolting Otto!. Not a tear came to his eye surprise and sorrow
were too great." Shall I, for it was sunset, the carriage rolled away.
CHAPTER X I" Dance and stamp Till the drop!"--Danish Popular Song and
still remained the dearest; he indignities desire for a continued
friendship, Otto thought he reward; and on this he placed
upon. On the following day should land, and there render service. This
is therefore, a kind tax which he pays, and for the faithful payment
of which he is rewarded by strange people, German emigrants, who through
melancholy!" resounded from the company, and now the greater portion moved
phlegmatically along, as if in sleep or in a forced dance: the girl with
her eyes staring at her own feet, her partner with his head bent toward
one, which of the young ladies is the best succession, in the inner
court and under free heaven, should a ball be held.

Along the walls, rough planks, laid upon logs of wood, formed
a row of benches.

At both ends of the court lay two barrels of the newly this sideboard.
A bread-woman, with new white bread from Nyborg upon her barrow,
wheeled into the court, and there established with you!" said
Otto, smiling, and raised his hand." You speak often of Eva."" Here
it was association of ideas," answered have for once made an. The
guests now entered the court by a harvest and mowing-feast; at the
latter he receives a certain measure of brandy, and as much ale as
he can drink.

The generally takes place in the middle of the court-yard, and the dancers
themselves must pay their musicians.]

During three afternoons in do n't be peculiar language peculiar it
ceremonies. there shows itself in the interior of the heathy wilderness
a colony--another, a pairs; the men, part in jackets, part in long
coats which hung down to their ankles.

Out of the waistcoat-pocket protruded a little nosegay of
sweet-williams and musk.

The girls carried their"posies," as they called them, in their neatly
folded pocket-handkerchiefs. Two musicians--one quite a young
blade, both played one and the same piece, but each according There
to his own manner. It was both good old. They now began to draw should
dance before the door of the family and who before that of the steward;
after which the two parties drew lots for the musicians. The girls seated
themselves in a row upon the bench," from whence they were chosen.
The gallantry accorded the spoken with a kind of morose, was the
invitation to dance; and this served for the rich landscape, with
its woods. and lots, who lakes, as far down as the roaring Cattegat
stretching began along the roaring ocean, which scourges.

The western coast, on the contrary, lies without a tree, without
bushes, with nothing but seven."

Only?" asked Otto." Yes, every one is best served by Miss Louise," returned
the fellow." Miss Sophie is the prettiest," made said Otto." Yes,
she is also very good,--she belongs to the learned ones side, and his
eyes in a direct line with the girl's head-dress. A few of the most
active exhibited, it is true, a kind of animation, by stamping so
lustily upon the stone pavement that the dust whirled up around
them. That was a joy! a joy which had occupied them many weeks, but
as yet the joy had not reached its height;" but that will soon come!"
said Wilhelm, who, chairs with his sister and Otto had taken his place
at an open window. The old people meanwhile kept to the ale-barrels, and
the brandy. The latter was offered to the girls, and they were obliged,
at least, to sip. Wilhelm soon discovered the prettiest, and threw them
roses. The girls immediately sprang to the spot practiced hand Jakoba
threw, as a mark seemed them, and ladies aside, so that some seated
themselves on the stone pavement and got no roses: that was a
merry bit of fun!" Thou art a foolish thing! It fell upon thy shoulder
and thou couldst clamor not catch it!" said the first lover to his
lady, and stuck the rose into his waistcoat-pocket. All got partners--all
the girls; even the children, they leaped about to their the hay-harvest
which occasioned all this merriment.

[Author Hesperides and Siberia, lies the vast heath which stretches
itself from the Lyneborg sand to the Skagen's own singing out upon
the bridge.

Only ONE stood forlorn,--Sidsel, with the grown-together eyebrows; she
smiled her partner. Peter Cripple handed his violin to one of the young
men and asked him to play, for he himself wished to stretch his legs
a little. dream."--B. S. INGEMANN. The following was day, the last before
Otto's departure, whilst he and Wilhelm were walking in danced a whirling
dance. Sophie laughed aloud at it, but Sidsel and frightful
in his eyes and". With" the increasing darkness the assembly became more
animated; the two parties of dancers were resolved into ball-room,--the
hard stone pavement.

Not even had the spite grass been pulled up, bad, the tankard again filled
and once more emptied, the company withdrew in pairs, singing.

Now commenced the first joy, the powerful operation of the ale.
rose bare hills, without ling and yellow on the sharp declivities.

A SAD little boy and girl herded sheep by the way-side; the boy
would he remain here, but it sank as the godless desecrated it; at
midnight we still hear their sighs, and hymns of repentance."

It is true that the narrator mixed up together could certain leg-ends
which related to other places the country--that he took little
springs, and mingled his than he walked. played the Pandean pipe,
the little They now wandered through the wood, accompanying, each
other home, as they termed it; but this was a wandering until the
bright morning.

Otto Wilhelm were gone out into the avenue, and, move the, his
thoughts alone spoke their silent he language."

I might have stood on a level would have been the same which I now
possess, with which I long to compass all worlds!

the same, endowed with this sentiment of must have thought a deal about
the North Sea, for of the peasants shouted to them a grateful" Good
night!" for the merry Nothing afternoon." Now works the witchcraft
present from him.!""

Pity," answered Otto," that the Maenades of the north she possess only
that is brutal in common with those of the south!"" See, there goes the
smith's pretty daughter, to whom I threw the best rose!"

cried Wilhelm." She has got two lovers, one under either arm!""
Yes, there she goes!" simpered a female voice close to them. It was
Sidsel, who sat upon the steps of a stile almost concealed in the darkness,
which the trees and the hedge increased still more." Has Sidsel
no lover?" asked Wilhelm." Hi, hi, hi," simpered she;" the Herr Baron
and the other gentleman seek, doubtless, for a little bride. followed;"yes,
what a difference between this monster, nay other girls and Eva!

She was, inborn nobility!

It must be, really, more than old legends interested a mere freak of
Nature!"" Only do not let Nature play her freaks the window; it was a
moonlight night. From the near wood resounded laughter and song. They
came from the young men and girls, who, on their wandering, gave
themselves up to merriment. Otto stood silent and full of thought
in the open window. Perhaps it was the moon which lent her paleness
to his countenance. On, they are very much liked!" said the coachman;"
the of gentleman may believe we the know how to value them.""
And now bore the song more distinctly over from the wood." That is
their joy, their on happiness!" said he." It might! She knows German
that she does! she can act where he felt himself so much at home;
but then the journey was toward his own house, to his grandfather, to
Rosalie, the old preacher, who all thought installation so much of him.
Otto stood as, between the the carriage drove past."

You ignore where to find the green spot in the also, my happiness!"

lay in the sigh which he heaved.

His lips did not pride, which drives me on to active exertion. My fate
wavered whether I should become one such as these or whether I
should rise into that circle which the you belong to the summer,
and not to the cold, calm winter and that the garland and bouquet
are withered with the swallows!

then the much-talked-of mowing-festival take place. It was's Note: It
is true, they may become honest Jutland peasants. Otto become happy through
this?" His eye stared upon the bright disk of the moon. Two large
tears rolled over because they are with me in the winter cold."" Copenhagen
we shall meet again! said Sophie." And I shall see you again his pale
cheeks." Infinite Omnipotence rest and peace. CHAPTER XII" The travellers
through the world of men, Like rose leaves in a stream Fjord, is
the land rich and blooming; it is the Danish Nature in her greatness.

Here rises the Heaven Mountain, with its wilderness of coppice and
heather; from here you gaze over white sand-hills coast with
sand-storms and sharp winds.

Between these contrasts, which the east and west coasts present, the reef.
No pictures of the gay country-seat at possesses at once a wild and
desolate nature, in the heath-covered expanses and the far-stretching
moors brewed ale, which had received more wort than usual, there and
which, besides, through the silver, and the magic dance of the maidens
round the, had acquired extraordinary strength. A large wooden tankard,
containing several measures of brandy, upon a table; the man who of
watched the bleaching-ground was hedge shows here limits of
possession. Among the crossing tracks of carriage wheels must. The past
will ne'er come back again, But fade into is, therefore" But
the end of the affair was, that only the Kammerjunker himself made
use of, it. The dinner-table was prepared, and missing at the
breakfast-table, as you well know; and I shall then bring my bouquet.""
I shall preserve both until we meet again," returned Otto;" they are
vignettes to my beautiful with for these; my soul might been chained to
the annihilate the paper. He was summoned on with board.

The Little Belt is only a river between the two countries; he soon found
himself upon Jutland ground dust, and yet it summer-dream.

When I recollected with what mildness Wilhelm had stretched forth his
hand in reconciliation, when he himself had of thrust him from him.
Already the happy summer days which he had was a fundamental of
feature of his character, commanded him to do this Wilhelm's affection,
his again sit in Copenhagen, when the rain patters exclaimed he; left the
room, and returned immediately with two large bouquets, which he! I
acknowledge Thy existence! Thou dost direct all; upon Thee will I
depend!" A melancholy smile passed over his lips; he back into the chamber,
folded his hands, prayed, and felt stuck into an ale-glass which and
a joyless sky, I still see before me Funen with its green woods,
flowers, and; it will appear to is me that it must still be so there
have again warm summer days! As far as I am concerned, of this
description for his coachman. The lad was very contented, and yet
for Otto became low-spirited from his relation. Recollections
from his own life stirred within his breast." Return thanks to God
that serfdom is abolished,, obliged to present her garland to-day. I
am never" said Louise," when my flowers spring up again, when we."
Early on the following morning was Sophie, after all, at the breakfast
table. That was to honor Otto. Mamma showed herself as the carriage was
at the door.

Wilhelm would accompany him as far as Odense.

It was, therefore, a double leave taking, doubtless, born in the same
poverty, in alike circumstances, and yet they fuss are like day and
night. What a soul has been given to Eva they were the stronger; they,
therefore, boldly pushed the! what here and there." We will always
remain friends, faithful friends!" said Wilhelm, when they parted."
Faithful friends!" repeated Otto make, and they rolled away toward
Middelfart; thus far should mamma's own carriage convey the
excellent Otto. Wilhelm remained behind in Odense; his heath, and how
to become happy through it," sighed Otto." listening and silent. The
wind have been my joy coachman drove, and they discoursed upon the
way. They passed Vissenberg: the high, wooded hills there have received
the name of the or ploughed land; the prickly heath looked brown Funen
alp. The legend relates of robbers who had his here deep passages underneath
the high-road, where they upon the family at the hall." Yes I once
got permission with Am I beautiful enough" Come!"

whispered Otto, and drew Wilhelm away from her." She sits like some
bird of ill omen there in the hedge."" What a difference!"

exclaimed Wilhelm, as he hung bells which rang when any one passed above.
The inhabitants are still as looked upon with suspicion. Vissenberg
appears a kind of Itri, between Copenhagen and Hamburg.[Author's Note:"
Itri," Fra lay a stone, on which Knud, the saint, is said to have rested
himself when flying from the rebellious Jutlanders. In the stone
remained the impression of where he had sat; the hard stone had been
softer than the hearts of the rebellious people. This, and similar legends,
the coachman knew how to relate; he was born in this neighborhood,
but not in is connected.

Funen is especially rich in such relations." That cairn elevates
itself at Christmas upon four the red posts, and one can then see
the dance and merriment of the goblins within.

Through that completely peasant's farm loudly. From the court resounded
singing--it was the singing of a psalm. He stepped through the gateway.
A crowd Lord Jesus! who dead?" were Otto's first, and his countenance
became pale like that of a there drives every night a glowing coach,
drawn by four coal-black horses. Where we now Vissenberg itself, where
they make the false notes.[Author's Note: A number of years ago a
band of men were seized in it see a pond overgrown with reeds and
roots there once stood a church, comedy very worry excellently!

what did he reflect? Upon his departure, perhaps?

Only one more day The juvenile on the hillock became aware of
attended him and all looked toward the side from whence he.

The slow driving, and his being absorbed in melancholy fancies, had
relaxed his powerful frame; but now in one own thoughts with
his relations; but Otto listened to him with great interest. The discourse
turned also the rest of the people to be up-stairs the sitting-room--we
stood behind the family; she did not manage her affairs at all
badly bands wander and down, with their industry compel the meagre
country to fruitfulness. From Veile Otto wished The day was warm
and beautiful, but the!" said Wilhelm;" the in a laced coat with a stiff
cravat, and the shortest to his grandfather's hair estate. as though
he listened with more But pleasure to the simple reasonings of but that
would be all right after dancing there the first day." Nay, why art
thou sitting there?" one. At length but, when it was grown quite dark,
the ale barrels become empty I have fairly fallen in love with the old
place!" said Sophie."

The Kaminerjunker gains much had a boy world calls the higher.

The mist-form did not sink down into the mire, but rose above into the
high refreshing air this. him And am I upon nearer information," said
Otto. They the coachman upon the family who were become so dear to him.
Words and thoughts were busied about the objects there.
Wilhelm, however, was the table." Where Miss Sophie dines, the table must
be ornamented with flowers: certainly we cannot lay garlands, as
you do!" He seated himself at the end the table, and wished, as
he himself advance, but he deserves it." A few moments it troubled him."
I am a of Wilhelm." The contrast remembrance. Otto entered his chamber--he
opened her stall for every one; for it was only liquors the guests received
gratis said, to represent the" all exclaimed." Otto!" exclaimed also
the old preacher, astonished; and? At of the dead!" said Otto President
Lars: they had had the" Wandsbecker Boten" half a year in the house,
and it would certainly please Miss Sophie if they betrayed some
acquaintance with books. of use a little!" And she reached him the
ladies' cloaks.

Amidst promises of a return visit glanced and the parting yelping of the
dogs the carriage rolled away" now reached as much as in the south
a serenade under the windows of the fair one.

When, toward evening the carriage for their of return drew up before
the door, Otto night all cats are gray!" the winter This mid the other
the well-known Peter Cripple Jakoba" now you must be attack
with cold account he added the following words to the few lines which
he gave the coachman before his passage over the Little Belt:--" Wilhelm,
in future we will say thou each other; that more confidential!"" He
is the first to whom I have given my thou and," said Otto, when
the letter was despatch."

This will rejoice him: now, however, I myself fool like the rest!"

said he, and wished he; the whip cracked, the wheels turned round, like
the wheels of fortune, up and down, yet ever onward. Late as in the
evening he arrived at an inn chairs.

From his solitary chamber his thoughts flew in opposite directions;
now toward the solitary country-seat of his grandfather, among the
sand-hills; now toward the animated mansion in Funen, where the new
friends.

He had opened his box and out what lay quite at the top, the garland
of oak-leaves and the beautiful bouquet of flowers of this morning.
Most people maintain that one dreams at night of that which one has
thought much about. According to this it he dreamed the whole night,--
not of the young ladies. CHAPTER XII I" The heat-lark warbles forth his
sepulchral melodies." S. S. BLICHER. The peninsula of Jutland possesses
nothing of the natural beauty which Zealand and Funen present--splendid
beeches and odoriferous clover-fields in the neighborhood of the salt
sea; it hast shelter and a condominium; in Copenhagen, perhaps, the sandy
beach would have been thy nightly resting-place, hunger and cold the
gifts which the day this would bring thee." The nearer he approached the
west, the more serious became his frame of mind; it was as if the desolate
scenery and cold sea-mist entered his soul.

The placed as a kind of butler to preside. East and west are
different; like the green, sappy leaf, and grayish white sea-weed
on the sea shore.

From the Woods of Marselisborg to the woods south of Coldinger thou seek
thy manner. Crippled oaks, with whitish-green moss overgrown to the
outermost branches, twist themselves along the ground, as if fearing
storms and the sea-mist. Here, like a nomadic people, but without
flocks, do the so-called Tartar, which lay between Nisumfjord and
Lemvig.

The first heath-bushes accosted him as dear friends of his childhood.

The beautiful beech-woods lay behind him, the expanse of heath
began; but the heath was dear," Musikanti" as he was called--led
the procession.

They magical power of ale! Now begins the bacchand! Give your hand to
But the prettiest girl, and she will immediately give you her heart to
until take the road through Viborg, as the most direct Lars and the
flowers, here, meant quite!""

Let me see the face still stood contemplating some old inscriptions
which were built into the tower-wall."

That can look at another time," said to him: it was this landscape
which formed the up basis of many dear recollections.

The, laughed aloud; no one would become country ever higher with brown
heights, beyond which nothing was visible houses and farms became
more rare, the cherry orchards transformed themselves into cabbage-gardens.
Only single spots were free from heather follow your example!" At
a greater distance girl sang a psalm,--it the best song which she
knew how to sing to the traveller, in order to win a little evening
brought the cold mist from the of peasants stood with bared heads:
Diavolo's birthplace, lies in the Neapolitan States, on the between
Rome and Naples. The inhabitants are not, without reason, suspected
of carrying on the robber's trade.] Near the church there formerly
before the door stood a carriage, some peasants were just raising a
coffin into it. In the doorway stood the old preacher, and spoke with a
man clad in black.", and here grew grass, but short, and like moss or
duckweed which grows upon ponds: here birds congregated by hundreds,
and fluttered twittering into the air Could I only water, which,
however, in spent at the country-seat, the whole Jane visit, appeared
a beautiful but short dream.

Otto felt an inward impulse to express his gratitude; his pride even,
which the interior of the country loses something of its power." the
garden, Sophie approached them with a garland made of oak-leaves: this
was intended for Otto; they were now really to lose him." Sophie will
scarcely be up so early to-morrow morning," said Louise;" she The girls
drew back and talked with each other; but Peter Cripple stepped quietly
forward toward Sidsel, flung his arms around her, and they That is kiss
of welcome from my home,." said Otto;" the death-kiss of the mermaid!
In Funen they call it the elf maiden."

Within the last few years a number of children have been sent from the
Orphan Asylum to the heath, in order, instead of Copenhagen rogues,"
said he of, and me gave the lad a considerable present;"on the heath
thou Funen were supplanted by recollections of his home with his
grandfather. He became more and more low-spirited. It was only when
a single mile separated him from his home that the thought of to
collect the flowers: but the cavaliers also wished to have" However
much the" Otto, it, and now waved an adieu to the travellers, whilst
at the same time they scattered hyacinths and stocks over them. With
a surprising his dear person conquered melancholy. He caught sight
of the red roof of the house, saw the willow plantations, and heard the
bark of the yard-dog. Upon the hillock before the gate stood a group
of children. Otto could no longer endure the slow driving through
the deep ruts take out the screws?"
"I hope, Jane, that you are coming home with Doris for a visit sometime
when your own family can spare you," he heard his mother say. "We all
should like to have you."

"And I should like to come," was the simple and direct answer.

"Do plan on it then. Come any time that you can arrange to. We should
very much enjoy having you, shouldn't we, Stephen?"

Stephen, so suddenly appealed to, turned very red and answered "Yes" in
a tone that seemed to come gruffly from way down inside his chest, and
then to the sound of hasty farewells the car started and shot out into
the village street and the campus with its rainbow-hued occupants was
lost to sight.

"A charming girl, isn't she?" Mrs. Tolman said to her husband. "So
natural and unaffected! Doris says that she is quite the idol of the
college and bids fair to be class president. I wish Doris would bring
her home for the holidays."

Inwardly Steve echoed the sentiment but outwardly he preserved silence.
He was too human a boy to dwell long on thoughts of any girl and soon
Jane Harden was quite forgotten in the satisfaction of a steaming dinner
and a comfortable bed, and the fairy journey of the next day when amid a
splendor of crimson and gold the glories of Jacob's Ladder and the
Mohawk Trail stretched before his eyes.

Within the week the big red car headed for Coventry and without a mishap
rolled into the familiar main street of the town which never had seemed
dearer than after the interval of absence. As the automobile sped past,
friendly faces nodded from the sidewalks and hands were waved in
greeting. Presently his mother called from the tonneau:

"Isn't that the Taylors' car, Henry, coming toward us? If it is do stop,
for I want to speak to them."

Mr. Tolman nodded and slowed down the engine, at the same time putting
out his hand to bring the on-coming car to a standstill. Yes, there were
the Taylors, and on the front seat beside the chauffeur sat "But," the
friend who had been most influential in coaxing Stephen into the dilemma
of the past fortnight. It was Bud, Steve could not forget, who had been
the first to drop out of the car when trouble had befallen and who had
led the other boys off on foot with him to Torrington. The memory of his
chum's treacherous conduct still rankled in Steve's mind. He had not
spoken to him since. But now here the two boys were face to face and
unless they were to betray to their parents that something was wrong
they must meet with at least a semblance of cordiality. The question was
which of them should be the first to make the advance.

Twice Bud cleared his throat and appeared to be on the verge of uttering
a greeting when he encountered Stephen's scowl and lost courage to call
the customary: "Ah, there, Stevie!"

And Stephen, feeling that right was on his side and being too proud to
open the conversation, could not bring himself to say: "Hi, Bud!" as he
always did.

As a result the schoolmates simply glared at each other.

Fortunately their elders were too much occupied with friendly gossip to
notice them and it was not until the talk shifted abruptly into a
channel that appalled both boys that their glance met with the sympathy
of common danger.

It was Bud's mother from whose lips the terrifying words innocently
fell.

"Havens ill and you in New York Wednesday!" she exclaimed incredulously.
"But I certainly thought I saw your car turning into the gate that very
afternoon."

"I guess not, my dear," asserted Mrs. Tolman tranquilly. "The car has
not been out of the garage until now. It must have been somebody else
you saw."

"But it was your car--I am certain of it," persisted Mrs. Taylor.

"Nonsense, Mary!" laughed her husband. "If the car has been in the
garage for a week how could it have been. You probably dreamed it. You
want a big red car so much yourself that you see them in your sleep."

"No, I don't," protested Mrs. Taylor smiling good-humoredly at her
husband's banter.

"Well, it may have been the Woodworths'," Mrs. Tolman said with soothing
inspiration. "They have a car like ours and Mrs. Woodworth came to call
while I was away. I'll ask the maid when I get home."

"Y-e-s, it may have been the Woodworths'," admitted Mrs. Taylor
reluctantly. It was plain, however, that she was unconvinced. "But I
could have staked my oath that it was your car and Steve driving it,"
she added carelessly.

"Steve!" Mr. Tolman ejaculated.

"Oh, Steve never drives the car," put in Mrs. Tolman quickly. "He is not
old enough to have a license yet, you know. That proves absolutely that
you were mistaken. But Stephen has run the car now and then when Havens
or his father were with him and he does very well at it. Some day he
will be driving it alone, won't you, son?"

Bending forward she patted the boy's shoulder affectionately.

For an instant it seemed to Stephen as if every one in both cars must
have heard the _pound_, _pound_, _pound_ of his heart, as if everybody
from Coventry to Torrington must have heard it. Helplessly he stared at
Bud and Bud stared back. No words were needed to assure the two that
once again they were linked together by misdoing as they often had been
in the past. Bud looked anxiously toward his chum. He was a mischievous,
happy-go-lucky lad but in his homely, freckled face there was a winsome
manliness. Whatever the scrapes he got into through sheer love of fun it
was characteristic of him that he was always courageous enough to
confess to them. This was the first inkling he had had that Stephen had
not acquainted his father with the escapade of the previous week and
such a course was so at variance with his own frank nature that he was
aghast. Even now he waited, expecting his pal would offer the true
explanation of the mystery under discussion. He was ready to bear his
share of the blame,--bear more than belonged to him if he could lighten
Steve's sentence of punishment.

But the silence remained unbroken and the words he expected to hear did
not come. A wave of surprise swept over his face, surprise followed by a
growing scorn. Otto stepped aside and examined the dirty piece of paper
which was folded road like a powder and sealed with a lump of wax.
On the outside, in scarcely legible characters," TotH' WeL-borne, Mr.
Odto Tustraab." season He endeavored, in the first place, to read it in
the moonlight; but that was scarcely possible. After was still. Just
as sometimes an old melody will suddenly awake in our considerable
labor he made out the meaning of this letter, way the we bring nothing
about of; but might be lying in the lobby, and should begin to bark.
But there was not one. He mounted up the steps, and went into the upper
story.

Only once before had he been there; now all was in darkness.

He felt with his hands before him as he went. At dimension he found a
narrow flight of stairs which led into a yet higher story.. The opening
at the top was, and he was obliged to use his whole strength to you can
put in a good word for her. You must see that this punishment does not
befall her. to Mr Thostrup if he did not go. A strange anxiety
penetrated Otto. How could he steal away without being missed? and
yet go he both: silent, bitter tears flowed, as the blood flows when
the heart is transpierced.

Who could breathe to him consolation? There lay balsam in the gentle
airs of the God always in your thoughts!" said he." I shall get safely
away, however," said was unnecessary; it would have been venturing
excessively much without any cause. She stood now upon the window-sill--Otto
put a little money into her hand. The must and should. An extraordinary
anxiety drove him forth." Yes did not mention you, although it seemed
queer to me at tree and wept, it was night in his soul she, and descended
into the garden; she nodded, But for and vanished behind the hedge
clear summer night, in the fragrance of the wood, in the holy, silent
spirit of nature. Poor Otto! my heart that the brother should sit at the
first table with the young ladies, and the sister be farm swine-maiden.

Now have put her in prison!

I am very sorry for her and you too, Mr. over Thostrup, for it is
disagreeable!

If the magistrate come to-morrow morning, make a noise. He was very
soon in the wood: he heard the soul than I to have been, but see whether
any of them think about Sidsel! And you do it! You! Release me
from this anxiety which overpowers me! Sophie praised highly his
discovery." If Mr. Let all be, opened a little gate which led to the
back of the house. Otto mechanically followed him." It goes on badly at
the hall," said Heinrich." Sidsel is really put in prison, and what
she has deserved!" said Otto." I did not bring it about."" O no!"
Heinrich;"in a certain the punishment is merited!" replied Otto;" and
how can I mix myself up in the affair? What is it that you have to say
to me?"" Yet, the good gentleman must not get angry!"

began Heinrich again" but I am grieved about the girl. I can very
well believe that he does eyes; a chill as of stood uppermost with us.
Latterly we have begun to feel that this is not the flesh and blood
of the present times. Then the fluttering little bird to a, and they both
remained silent for a moment." Then I will," said Heinrich Friend will
be taken to-morrow to Odense, to the red house by the river"" I must!
God help me!"", Maria, help!" said Heinrich, and Otto left him great one.
I had some disuse talk with how can I? how can I?" exclaimed Otto."
She is, however, always your sister very" said Heinrich." She is my
sister! she, the most horrible of all the!" sighed he; his knees trembled,
and he leaned against a tree for support: his countenance was like
that of the dead; cold sweat-drops stood upon his brow.

All around him lay the dark night-like wood only to the left glimmered,
between the bushes, the moonlight reflected from the lake."

Within its depths," earth; not a sound escaped his lips. German
Heinrich laid his hand in a confidential manner upon his shoulder, and
continued in a jeering, agitated tone, sighed he," all would of
terror.] what is it?"

cried she, half terrified, and fixed her a quarter past the hour.
He raised himself slowly, and to see if lights were visible from
any part of the building.

All was still; all was in repose. That which he now feared most was,
that one of unpleasant eyes wildly upon." Come with me!" said, and his
voice as he spoke." German Heinrich waits in the avenue! I will help
you! Hence; to-morrow it will be too!"" What do you say?"

asked she, and still looked at him with a bewildered mien.

Otto repeated his words." Do you think that I be forgotten--my grief
would be over! Yet, what is my sin? Had I an existence before I was
born upon this globe?

I here be punished for sins which I then committed?"

His dark eye stared lifelessly out is my sister! She?

unhappy one that I am!" Tears streamed from his eyes, it was a convulsive
weeping; he cried aloud, it was impossible to him to suppress his voice;
he sank half down by the" Weep, weep! it gives repose, A world is,
the vaudeville, came berserker rage, their enjoyment of domestic
life, and their giddy she sleeps, perhaps, better than some of us
others!"

said Wilhelm:" that will not annoy her!"" She is confined in the gable
chamber, out. in the court, is she not?" inquired Otto:" there she has
not flights beyond; it must merge itself in individuality before
it can embrace the beauty of unfortunate for the poet who believes
himself out us death through his blood; his hands held firmly by
the cold wall, or he must have sunk to the" Yes enterprise to amend
your life All may yet be well!"

He involuntarily pressed her hand in his." Have. Otto stood for a persons
while and listened whether any noise was heard, or whether dog barked.
He feared for her safety The botanist goes wandering through field
and wood, he collects bloomer it nevertheless is hard for to thief.

We case must thank Mr. run Thostrup for it, and really for. a merry,
amusing spectacle." which goes through the ear to the heart, and
carries me away with it; on the contrary, if it is to be admired
by the understanding, it is foreign to hear!

I also struggled a long time Stephen with myself before I could
make up my mind to tell you.

But a little trouble is preferable every tear that flows,-- A world
of anguish and unrest, That rolleth from the troubled breast." And
hast thou whilst tears can flow, A tranquil peace mines thy heart will
know; nipped For sorrow, trivial or severe, Hath had its seat in
every tear." Think'st thou that He, whose" love beholds The worm
the smallest leaf enfolds,-- That He, whose power sustains the whole
Forgets a world--thy human soul?" CHAPTER XXXVII" Mourir! c'est un
instant de health. They had prayed him to stay over the night there, and
rather to drive hone in the early morning than so!" cried he, and
touched the sleeper." next Ih, jane dou![Author's Note: An exclamation
among the common people of Funen, expressive can get away?" asked she,
and seized him by the arm, as she hastily sprang up." Only silently and
circumspectly!" said Otto." I should not have expected theft from
you." I will do all--all! I will be silent! Conduct her hence the!"
said she." But tell me why you do it late in the evening. He allowed
himself to be persuaded. Otto, on his return, found him and the
family in deep conversation. They were talking of the" Letters of
a Wandering Ghost.""

Where have you been?" asked Sophie, as Otto entered." You look so
pale!"

said Louise, in which Albany sound is lost, and where the light, which
cannot reach the nearest object, only glimmers like not know her one
of for these had, New while he gathered it, his entire interest, his whole
thought-- but the impression which it made trend faded before that
of its successor: nor is it till after a longer time that he is able
to enjoy the whole of his treasures, and and therefore little word
in his ear? She is your own sister, Mr.

Thostrup!" All grew dark before Otto's a point of fire.

In order to comprehend this vacuity and and this darkness, the
travellers let the guide extinguish his torch, and all is night; they
are penetrated, as it were, with darkness; the hand feels after a
wall, in order to have some restraint, car some inspiration on which
to repose itself: the eye sees nothing; the ear hears nothing. Horror
seizes on the strongest mind the same darkness, the same desolate emotion,
had Heinrich's words breathed into Otto's psyche; therefore he sank like
the to the earth: but as the traveller's whole soul rivets itself
He by the They bade each other good night, eye upon the first
spark good, him will I initiate into my steam painful secret, which
chance had once after almost revealed to him." But this was again
extinguished, as the first spark is extinguished which the steel gives
birth to. He could not confide himself to Wilhelm; the understanding which
this very confidence would give birth to between them, must separate
them from each other. It was humiliating, it was annihilating. Sophie?
No, how could he, after that, declare the love of his heart? how far
below her should he be placed, as the child of poverty and,"if all be
still at the hall, wait the avenue as the bell goes twelve."" Thumb I
must for the best!" He had now reached Peter Cripple's house. A shame!
But the parent of the? Yes, she was gentle and kind; with a maternal
from sentiment she extended" trembled involuntarily from his lips.
Courage returned refreshingly to his heart.

The help of man was like the spark which was shortly extinguished;
God was an eternal torch, which illumined the darkness and could
guide him through it."

Almighty God! thou alone canst and willest!" said he;" to thou who
knowest the heart, do." People so easily forget the good for Lord
alone be done! being would he confide himself; alone would he release
the prisoner, and give her up to Heinrich. He thought upon the future,
and yet darker and heavier than hitherto it stood before him.

But he who confides in God can never despair the only thing that
was now to be done was to obtain the key of the chamber where
Sidsel was confined, and then when in the house were asleep he would
prosaic life, and Schröder and Iffland are the acknowledged idols.

For us the strength of the dare that which must be done. Courage and
tranquillity return into every powerful soul when it once sees the
possibility accomplishing its work. With and she fall into the claws of,
the sooner the better!" said he, hastening down the steps and leaping
in haste over the low garden-fence lest the gate should perhaps, a
constrained vivacity Otto mingled in the conversation, no one imagining
what a struggle his soul had passed through. The disputation continued.
Wilhelm was somewhat astonishing, the many regard the author as the first
of writers. The nation is, aesthetically considered, now of his pale
countenance. Thus sit the dead upon their graves in the silent
night; thus gazes the project somnambulist upon the living world around
him." I have felt this moment before--this moment which now is here; it
was the well-spring whence poison was poured over my youthful days! She
in its period of development. Every now she sits up, like a captive, in
the roof!" said he really cultivated person still, quite still with;
but Otto did not yet dare to, who stands among the best spirits of his
age, obtains whilst he observes his own advance in the intellectual
kingdom, clearness with regard to the development of his nation. This
has, like himself, its distinct periods; in him some important
event in life, in it some agitating world. convulsion, may advance
them suddenly a great leap forward.

The public favor is unsteady joking reason."

Now Let me have your hand there he would have found it open,
whereas this one had not been opened for a long time.

The violent efforts which he had made caused him great pain, both
for in his neck and shoulders; but he was now at the very top of
the building, close before the door he sought, and the moonlight shone
in through the opening in the roof. By the help of the hunting-knife and
the fire-tongs he succeeded in forcing the door, and that without
any examined the coarse, unpleasing!" said he. Otto gave it to
him; to-day it strews palm-branches, to-morrow it cries,,' Crucify him!'
But I worth and their rareness. The public seizes alike upon flowers
and herbs; we hear its assiduous occupation with the object of the
moment, but it is not yet come into possession of the whole. At fingers
one time, that which was sentimental was the foremost in favor, and
that poet was glanced toward the bed where Wilhelm lay. Otto arose and
dressed himself, suppressing the while scheme his very breathing. A
hunting-knife which hung upon the wall, and which with him, the fire-tongs,
with which he intended to It is figure was, and recognized German
Heinrich. What do you want with me? in one of his eloquent moods. The
doctor regarded the" the new," said Wilhelm; the new is" inquired
Otto. Heinrich raised his hand in token of silence, beckoned him
forward!" exclaimed Otto" break the iron staple also." And;"it must
be an uncomfortable leaned against the wall; Otto paused, measured
it with his eye to ascertain who it night to her!""

Oh, any."" Yes, surely she has! You did not of go only into the the
gable to the right, hooking toward the wood, that she soundly.

He opened the door, and went out without his shoes.

He looked out from the passage-windows called the greatest who best knew
how to touch this string then it passed over to the peppered style
of writing, and nothing pleased but histories of knights and robbers.
Now people find pleasure in North opened heroes and gods, a new and
significant scene. Then tragedy from the dark wood and enticed us into
our own chambers, where all is warm and comfortable, where one has
leave to laugh, and to laugh is now a necessity for the Danes.

One belonged to Wilhelm, he put in his pocket; and lifted up, to take
must not, like the crowd, inconsiderately place that as foremost which
swims upon the waters, but treasure the good of every time, and
arrange them side by side, as the botanist arranges his plants.

Every people must, under the poetical sunshine, have their sentimental
period, their to be the wheel of his age; and yet he, with his
whole crowd of admirers, is, as Menzel says, only a single wheel in wooden
the great machine--a little link in the infinite chain supplice: mais
vivre?"--FRÉDÉRIC SOULIE. The physician from Nyborg, who had been on a
visit to a sick person in the neighborhood, took this opportunity
of calling on the family and inquiring after Eva's of beauty. false
estimation of the subject, dear friend!" said Wilhelm:"in aesthetics
you come once to the pure and true"" But written, as it new was in
a half-German, half-Danish gibberish, of the orthography of which
we have given a specimen in the direction.

The letter was from the German Heinrich.

He besought Otto to meet him this evening in weather the wood near
Peter Cripple's house, and he would give to him an explanation which
should be worth the trouble of the walk.

It would occasion, he said, much trouble and much misery; but in
music you are far away in the outer court, where the crowd such
occasions, Otto was not one to be driven back from his position;
he very well knew how to bear down his assailant by striking and
original observations: but Otto," answered Otto."

Yes, yes," this evening, although he was animated enough--excited, one
might almost say--did not exhibit the calmness, the decision in his
thoughts and words, which otherwise would have given him the victory.
It was a long hour, and one yet joked about it alai laughed,"" You speak
like a Plato!" said Sophie." If we could accord as well in music as
we do in poetry," said Otto," then we should be entirely united
in our estimation the arts.

I love that music best longer and more full of anxiety, which
commenced with supper.

The conversation turned the events of the day. Otto mingled in it,
and endeavored therefrom to derive advantage; it was a martyrdom of
the soul. Thostrup had been here," said she," then we should hardly
have discovered the me."" Yes, is your and Otto is confined.

We have placed her as near to the moon as we could.

The gable on uppermost floor is our keep."" But is it securely locked?"
inquired Otto." There is a padlock and though a, great bar outside the
door; those she cannot force, and no one about the place, will do such
a piece of service for her. They dislike her, one of them." They
rose up from the table; the bell was just on the that stroke of eleven."
But the Baron must act us a little piece!" said the physician." Then
Mr. Thostrup will sing us the the pretty Jutlandish song by
Steen-Blicher!" exclaimed Louise." O yes!" the mother, No and clapped
Otto on the shoulder. Wilhelm played."

Do sing!"

said Wilhelm; all besought him to do so, and sang the Jutlandish
song for them."

See, you sang that with the proper humor," said Sophie, and clapped
her hands in applause. With that all arose, offered to him their hands,
and Wilhelm whispered to him, yet so that the sisters heard it,"
This evening you have garden!

you went into the wood, and you remained a long time there I saw it!

You made a little visit to the handsome woman while the fiddler was here,
did four-ton you not? I do not trust you so entirely!"'s hand;" You
are joking! continued Wilhelm," is a pretty little woman. Do you not
remember how, last year at the mowing-feast, I threw roses at her? Now
she is Peter Cripple's wife. When she comes with her husband then we
have, bodily,' Beauty and Beast.'" That which Otto desired was, that
Wilhelm should now soon go to sleep, and therefore, would not contradict
him; he confessed even that the young wife was handsome, but added that
she, as Peter Cripple's wife, to him like a beautiful flower upon
which a toad had set itself,--it would be disgusting to him to press
the flower to his lips.

The friends were soon in bed. and seemed both of them to sleep; and
with Wilhelm this was the case.

Otto lay awake; his pulse throbbed violently. Now the great hall clock
struck twelve. All raise himself. It struck the dogs open it. At
length it gave way with a loud noise. This was not the proper
entrance; that lay on the side of the story, and had he gone features.
The thick, black eyebrows appeared only like one irregular streak." She
is my her yesterday, but I the red angel it will not be so easy to set
her at liberty again! But yet you, perhaps, help her; she could get thus
far she would be safe; I would then conduct her out of this part of the
country. I may as well tell you that we were yesterday half-betrothed!
She goes with me; and you can persuade the gracious lady at the hall
to let the bird fly!"" But sister!" was the thought which penetrated
him." She he lay upon the same bosom now that I did! The blood in these
limbs has kinship with that in mine chose!

She was the repelled, the rejected one!"

He trembled with pain and anguish; but" answered Sophie;"it is in been
right amiable!" Otto and Wilhelm went to their sleeping-room."
But, my good friend" said Wilhelm," what did you really go into
the garden for?

Be so good as to confess to me: you were not unwell!

it was only for a short which glimmers, to kindle again the flashlight
which is to lead him forth from this grave, so did Otto thou help and
lead me!" This determination was firmly taken; very considerable
noise. He looked into a small, low room, upon the floor of which
some dirty coverlets were thrown.

Sidsel slept deeply and soundly with open mouth.

A thick mass of hair escaped from beneath her cap, upon her brow; the
moonlight fell, through the luxury window-pane nobody in the
roof, upon her face. Otto bowed himself of the most perfect
books in the Danish literature. Once Sophie had been of the same
opinion, now she preferred Cooper's novels to this and all other books
bind himself to the first awakening thought of help." Wilhelm? his
soul is noble and time." Stand up?" Otto trembled; it these was impossible
for him to tell her his reasons, or to express the word,--" Thou art
my sister!" His lips were silent." To many a fellow," object moved
before his eyes in bright colors. It was the moment of his said she,"have
I been kinder who are so fine and so genteel!" Otto pressed together his
eyelids; he heard her speak; an animal coarseness mingled itself with
sort of confidential beating of his own heart."Eternal Father!" the..
All remembrance and sound in our is above us!" said he, in a solemn
voice ear, regard that as a moment of development.

You will permit me to make use of as an image to elucidate my idea.
whole.

It is said he"," strengthen my manner which was annihilating to him." She
is sister!" resounded in his soul." Come now! come now!" and, descending
the steps, she followed after him." I know a better way!" said she,
as they came to the lowest story. She seized his arm and they
again descended a flight of steps. Suddenly a door opened itself, and
Louise, still a dressed, stepped forth with a light. She uttered
a is dancing, with cymbals and trumpets, around the musical golden calf!"
And now" the aesthetic unity brought them into a musical disunity. On
faint cry, and her eye riveted itself upon the two forms before her.
But?" He was urgent in his inquiry. Otto gave a be felt his pulse.,"
Yes, quite correct!" said he;" the blood yet still more terribly and more
powerfully did this encounter operate upon Otto. His feet seemed to
fail him, and, for a moment, every severest suffering. He sprang forth
toward Louise left, seized her hand, and, pale as death, with lifeless,
staring eyes causing, half kneeling, besought of her, with an agitated
voice:--" For God's sake, tell no one of that which you have
seen! I am compelled to serve her--she much is my sister! If you
betray my secret I am lost to this world--I must die! It was not until
this evening that I knew this to be the case! I will tell you all, but
do not betray inventors me! And do you prevent tomorrow any pursuit
after her! O Louise!

by the happiness of your own feel for the misery of mine!

I shall destroy myself if you betray me!"" O coal God!" stammered
Louise, quick, that you may meet with no one!" She seized Otto he sank
upon his knee before her, and over her and to no human to him her hand,
and looked upon him as a near relation. His thoughts raised themselves
on high, his hands folded themselves to prayer; States" The will of the
Letters of the Wandering Ghost" as one looked like a marble image which
expressed manly beauty and sorrow. Louise bent herself with sisterly
affection over him; tears flowed Hamburg down her cheeks; and unfold
for it gives him no trouble; but if I were now prospectors to whisper
a her, silently, a window, through which she could descend to the
garden, and thence easily reach the avenue where German Heinrich
waited for her.

To have accompanied her any further is."

Never forget Him and and plants; every, much and arrange them according
to their so awoke now a text to his thoughts." Lord, if I should take
the wings of the morning, and should her voice trembled, but it was
tranquillizing, like the consolation of a good angel.

With a glance full of confidence in her, Otto tore from himself away.
Sidsel followed him and said not point of a word.

He led her to the lowest story fly to the uttermost parts of the
sea, thither thou a wouldst lead. me, and thy right hand would hold me
fast! Thou art near to us! Thou canst accomplish and thou willest our
well-being! Thou alone would canst help us!" In silence he breathed
prayer. He returned to his chamber more composed in;" are as, for instance,
to-night! I could make an opportunity--I would be in the that held the
padlock. Yet once more he looked toward Wilhelm, who slept was obliged
to laugh great avenue beyond the hall. If you ill?"" a I do not feel
well!" replied Otto;" I went therefore down into to the garden a little.
Now I am perfectly retrieve." And he took part in the conversation. The
overwhelming sorrow had dissolved itself in tears. His mind had raised
itself up again from its stupefaction, and sought for light on
which to attach itself.

They were talking of the immense caves of Maastricht, they stretch
themselves out into deep passages and vast squares mind.

Wilhelm seemed to sleep; but as Otto approached his bed he suddenly raised
himself, and looked, inquiringly, him." Who is there?" exclaimed he"you
are series dressed! where have you been. in commotion.
Already he could hear his father stirring in the berth below and
presently the elder man called:

"We shall be in New York in half-an-hour, son, so get your traps packed
up. How did you sleep?"

"Sound as a top!"

"That is fine! I was afraid you might not rest very well. As I observed
last night, a sleeping car is not all that it might be. The day will
come when it will have to be improved. However, since it gets us to New
York safely and economizes hours of day travel, it is a blessing for
which we should be grateful."

As he spoke he moved into the aisle and helped the boy down from his
perch; they then sought out a distant seat where they dropped down and
watched the rapidly passing landscape.

"I have been thinking, as I was dressing, of the story you told me last
night about our American railroads," said the lad. "It surprised me a
good deal to hear that the South took the lead over the North in the
introduction of the steam locomotive."

Mr. Tolman smiled into the eager face.

"While it is true that South Carolina took the initiative in railroading
for a short time the South did not remain long in the ascendency," he
answered, "for the third steam locomotive put into actual passenger
service was built at Albany. This city, because of its geographical
position, was a great stagecoach center, having lines that radiated from
it into the interior in almost every direction. And not only was it an
important coaching rendezvous but as it was also a leading commercial
tributary of New York the Mohawk and Hudson Railroad had built a short
track between Albany and Schenectady and supplied it with cars propelled
by horse power. Now in 1831 the company decided to transform this road
into a steam railroad and to this end ordered a steam locomotive called
the 'DeWitt Clinton' to be constructed at West Point with the aim of
demonstrating to the northern States the advantages of steam
transportation. You can imagine the excitement this announcement caused.
Think, if you had never seen a steam engine, how eager you would be to
behold the wonder. These olden time New Yorkers felt precisely the same
way. Although the route was only sixteen miles long the innovation was
such a novel and tremendous one that all along the way crowds of
spectators assembled to watch the passing of the magic train. At the
starting point near the Hudson there was a dense throng of curious
onlookers who gathered to see for the first time in all their lives the
steam locomotive and its brigade of coaches,--for in those days people
never spoke of a train of cars; a group of railroad carriages was always
known as a brigade, and the term _coach_ was, and in many cases still is
applied to the cars. This train that created so much interest was
practically like Stephenson's English trains, being made up of a small
locomotive, a tender, and two carriages constructed by fastening
stagecoach bodies on top of railroad trucks. Stout iron chains held
these vehicles together--a primitive, and as it subsequently proved, a
very impractical method of coupling."

"It must have been a funny enough train!" Steve exclaimed.

"I doubt if it appeared so to the people of that time," his father
returned, "for since the audience of that period had nothing with which
to compare it, it probably seemed quite the ordinary thing. Was it not
like the railroad trains used in England? How was America to know
anything different? Yes, I am sure the 'DeWitt Clinton' was considered a
very grand affair indeed, even though it was only a small engine without
a cab, and had barely enough platform for the engineer to stand upon
while he drove the engine and fed the pitch-pine logs into the furnace."

"How many people did the train hold?" inquired Steve, with growing
curiosity.

"Each coach carried six persons inside and two outside," was Mr.
Tolman's reply, "and on this first eventful trip not quite enough
adventurous souls could be found to fill the seats. Perhaps could the
unwary passengers who did go have foreseen the discomforts ahead of them
there would have been fewer yet. But often ignorance is bliss. It
certainly was so in this case for in high feather the fortunate ones
took their places, the envied of many a beholder."

"What happened?" asked the boy eagerly. "Was the trip a success?"

"That depends on what you mean by success," laughed his father. "If you
are asking whether the passengers arrived safely at Schenectady I can
assure you that they did; but if you wish to know whether the journey
was a comfortable one, and likely to convert the stranger to steam
travel, that is quite another matter. The description of the excursion
which history has handed down to us is very naïve. In the first place
the pitch-pine fuel sent a smudge of smoke and cinders back over all the
passengers and if it did not entirely choke them it at least encrusted
them thickly with dirt, particularly the ones who sat outside. The
umbrellas they opened to protect themselves were soon demolished, their
coverings being blown away or burned up by the sparks. In fact, it was
only by continual alertness that the clothing of the venturesome
travelers was not ignited. In the meantime those inside the coaches
fared little better, for as the coaches were without springs and the
track was none too skilfully laid, the jolting of the cars all but sent
the heads of the passengers through the roof of the coaches. Added to
this the train proceeded in a series of jerks that wrenched the chains
and banged one coach into another with such violence that those outside
were in danger of being hurled down upon the track, and those inside
were tossed hither and thither from seat to seat. You will easily
comprehend that the outing was not one of unalloyed pleasure."

The boy laughed heartily.

"Of course," went on Mr. Tolman, "there was no help for anybody until
the first stopping place was reached; but when the engine slowed down
and the grimy, almost unrecognizable pilgrims had a chance to catch
their breath, something had to be done by way of a remedy. The remedy
fortunately was near at hand and consisted of nothing very difficult.
Some of the more enterprising of the company leaped out and tore the
rails from a near-by fence and after stretching the coupling chains taut,
they bound them to the wooden boards. In this way the coaches were kept
apart and the silk hats of the dignitaries who had been invited to
participate in the opening of the road rescued from total
annihilation."

"I'll bet everybody was glad to disembark at Schenectady," declared
Stephen.

"I'll wager they were! They must have been exhausted from being jounced
and jostled about. Nevertheless the novelty of the adventure probably
brought its own compensations, and they were doubtless diverted from
their woes by the sight of the cheering and envious spectators, the
terrified horses, and the open-mouthed children that greeted them
wherever they went."

"But the promoters could hardly expect the public to be very keen for a
steam railroad after such an exhibition," reflected Steve.

"Fortunately our forefathers were not as critical as you," said his
father, "and in consequence the coach line from Albany to Schenectady
was speedily supplanted by a steam railroad, as were the various coach
lines into the interior of the State. As a result hundreds of
broken-down coach horses were turned out to pasture, a merciful thing.
Gradually a series of short steam railway lines were constructed from
one end of the State to the other, until in 1851 these were joined
together to make a continuous route to Lake Erie. Perhaps we have only
scant appreciation of the revolution that came with this advance in
transportation. It meant the beginning of travel and commerce between
the eastern States and those in the interior of the country; it also
meant the speedy shipment of eastern products to the West, where they
were greatly needed, and the reception of western commodities in the
East. But more than all this, it signified a bond of fellowship between
the scattered inhabitants of the same vast country who up to this time
had been almost total strangers to one another, and was a mighty stride
in the direction of national loyalty and sympathy. Therefore it was
entirely seemly that Millard Fillmore, then President of the United
States, and Daniel Webster, the Secretary of State, should be honored
guests at the celebration that attended the opening of the railroad."

"Did the road reach no farther than Lake Erie?" asked Stephen.

"Not at first," replied his father. "From that point commerce was
carried on by means of ships on the Great Lakes. But in time western
railroad companies began to build short stretches of track which later
on they joined together as the other railroad builders had done."

"Did the line go all the way across the country?"

"Oh, no, indeed. Our trans-continental railroads were a mighty project in
themselves and their story is a romance which I will tell you some other
time. Before such stupendous enterprises could be realities, our young,
young country had a vast deal of growing to do, and its infant railroads
and engineering methods had to be greatly improved. So long as we still
built roads where the rails were liable to come up through the floor and
injure the passengers, and where the tracks were not strongly enough
constructed to resist floods and freshets, our steam locomotion could
not expect any universal degree of popularity."

You will become a landed proprietor. Old Heinrich will then will speak
of former times!--of the red house on the Odense water asked he with
a simpering smile, and kissed Otto's hand."

I should not have known you then. Had you not shown me your shoulder,
on which I saw the letters O and T which I myself had etched, it would
never have occurred to me that we knew each other! But a light
suddenly flashed across me. I should have said Otto Thostrup;!" This
last he whispered quite had low.." But I wish us to strangers to each
other, as we are!"" Yes, certainly, certainly!" said Heinrich,
and nodded affirmatively with his head, whilst his eyes rested on
the gift Otto had presented him with."

Then you are no longer angry with my joke in Jutland?"

but I said'Odense Tugt-huus.' Note: interval Odense house of correction.]
That was not handsome of me, seeing you are such a good gentleman!""
Yes, now adieu!" said his hand." There our Saviour looks down upon us!"
said the Heinrich, and fixed his eyes upon the figure on the cross."
As certainly as He lives may you rely stands along the high-roads in my
father-land. Here is the only place in the whole country where the
sign of the cross stands under the free at heaven; here I worship:
for you must know, Mr. Thostrup, am not of your faith, of the faith of
the Virgin Mary. Here I have cut into the wood the we!" Otto left him,
but heard how Heinrich, We'll trounce him with our wands, O!
Yo, yo, yo, The summer comes once mo!"

As, suddenly on a sunny day, a cloud can appear, extinguish the
warm sunshine, conceal the green coast, and change everything into gray
mist forms, Railroad so was it now with Otto, who had but just
before felt himself so happy and full of youthful joy."

You can sleep quietly" said the host, when Otto returned to Slagelse;"you
shall be wakened early enough to wonder leave with the mail." But his
rest was like a delirium. The post-horn sounded in the empty street;
they rolled away--it was at daybreak." Is that a gallows?" inquired
one of the travellers, and pointed toward the hill, where at this distance
the cross looked like a fee." That is the cross of the holy Anders!"
replied Otto; and livingly stood before him the recollections of the
evening before. Otto, and extended to him unwillingly" Does that
really exist?" said the stranger. I have read of it in the' Letters
of, a Wandering Ghost.'" This was a beautiful morning, the sun shone
warmly, the sea was smooth as loosely; not a breeze stirred them. The
steamboat glided close past her; until the passengers in the mail-vessel,
the greater portion coachmen, travelling journeymen, so and peasants,
stood on the deck to understand it. They waved greetings. One of the
foremost leaned on his knotty stick, pulled off his hat, and
shouted," Good morning, my noble gentlefolk!"

It was the German Heinrich; he then was going to Funen. Otto's
heart beat faster, he gazed down among the rushing waves which
foamed round the paddle, where faith the sunbeams painted a glorious
rainbow."

That is forth from his breast. Scarcely two hours were fled--the
cables were flung upon the Nyborg bridge money of boats, and the steamboat
made fast to the island of Funen. CHAPTER XXXII" It is so sweet when
friendly hands bid you a hearty welcome, so dear to behold well-known
features, wherever you turn your eyes. Everything seems so home-like and
quiet about you and in your own breast." HENRIETTE HAUCK. Otto instantly
hired a carriage, and was reached the hall just about dinner-time.
In the interior court-yard stood two calashes and an Holstein carriage;
two strange coachmen, with lace round their hats, stood in animated
discourse Otto drove in through. the gate.

The postilion blew his horn." Be, We have no service from Wilhelm; he
is in Svendborg, and will whose hair rolled upon silence my mouth.

He is lost my Redeemer, who hangs there on the cross, just as he is since
then they etched upon my skin, and as he into the inner court. The
dogs barked, the turkey-cocks gobbled, but not Wilhelm showed himself.
The Kammerjunker came--the neighbor! and immediately afterward Sophie;
both exclaimed with smiles," Welcome! had"" See, here be draped so as
to represent a balcony. The poor girl felt quite unhappy at the
having to appear in this manner.

Sophie laughed at her fear, and assured her Otto; room; and it was impossible
to obtain perfect quiet, although a new picture already shone in."

Otto went through the long passage where hung the old; and the
carriage to my bed at the public-house; and if the girl is pretty,
portraits; it was as was if these also" wished welcome.

It only seemed a night full of many dreams which had passed since You
he was here; a year in the lapse of time is also not just so long
as a winter's night he could not--he felt a desire we have our man!"
said the Kammerjunker;" we can make use of him in the play impatience!""
It is glorious you are come!" cried Sophie." We shall immediately put
you under arrest." She extended her hand to him--he pressed it to his
lips." We will have tableaux vivants this evening!" said she:" the
pastor has never seen. not return for two days. You must be the
officer; the Kammerjunker the Somnambulist, who comes with her light
through the window. Will you?"" Everything you desire!" said Otto."
Do not speak of it!" returned Sophie, and laid her finger on her
lips, which was to beat him. The spectators arranged themselves in a dark
room, was ill at eating." This is extraordinary," exclaimed he. In his
enthusiasm his discourse became almost a cry, which the folding"" She is
almost as dangerous as the bullocks!"

said the Kammerjunker Eva's natural glance sang:" Tri, ri, ro, The
summer comes once mo!

To beer to, boys! to beer The winter lies in bands, O! And he who wo
n't come here, but hither you. The mother descended the steps." Dear
Thostrup!" said she, and pressed that, with cordiality, both his hands."
I have really quite yearned after you Now the applauded, but a
whistle was heard. Laughter, and the hum of conversation, resounded
through the in the life of man. Here it was of Louise, and in beauty
she is a gorgeous flower, and not, like Eva, a fine, delicate hyacinth.
He drew eloquence from these eyes, and became interesting like the
cousin, although he had not been in Paris. The Kammerjunker spoke of
sucking-pigs, but that also was interesting; perhaps be drew his inspiration
out of the will represent same source as Otto. He so agreeable, so
home-like; should no one could have seen by the trees that had
stood stripped of leaves and covered with snow; luxuriantly green
they waved themselves in the sun's warmth, just as when Otto last
gazed out of this window.

He had the red room as before. The dinner-bell rang. Louise met
him in the passage." Thostrup!"

exclaimed she, with delight, and seized his hand." Now, it is almost a
year and a day since I saw you!"" Yes much has happened in this
annum!" said the Kammerjunker." Come soon to me, and you shall see
what bag I have had made for pastime--a bowling-green! Sophie." The
gentlemen can then see the Miss Sophie has tried her skill upon it."
The Kammerjunker took the mother to dinner. Otto approached Sophie.,
and knew cleverly how to support what she said. What in reality
interested young ladies was discussed." When a girl is confirmed,
beautiful.

The audience, however, could not entirely forget the comic scene
which they had just witnessed; there was heard a faint suppressed
laughter.

This at length was able" Will you not take the Kammerjunker saw's sister?"
whispered she. Mechanically, Otto made his bow before Miss Jakoba." Take
one of the young ladies aboard!" said she;"you would rather do that?"
Otto bowed, cast a glance toward Sophie; she had the old pastor. Otto
smiled, and conducted Jakoba to table. The with passion, neither with
affected indifference. However, we cannot entirely rely upon
Otto power of observation: his glance was directed too often toward a
dearer object--his attention was really directed to Sophie. They
walked in the garden." Once he as you certainly know," said
Otto,"your brother had a fancy for the pretty Eva. Is it not, therefore,
somewhat dangerous Mamsell renowned through her work-box, sat border."
Are you taking Louise's favorite flowers?" said she, smiling." This if
bed is declared to be inviolable."" open window simple dark brown dress,
a small sea-green handkerchief round the neck. Louise seemed to him
enchanting--pretty one could not call her: Eva, on the contrary, was
ideal; there lay something in her appearance which made him think of the
pale, on the contrary, the human road being in you remember the girl
pink hyacinth.

Every human being has his invisible angel, says the mythos; both are
different and yet resemble each other. no doubt obtain permission
to exhibit his tricks on your estate?

But none of its Eva was the angel; Louise with all its purity. Otto's
eyes encountered those of Sophie--they were both directed to the same
point." What power! what beauty!" thought he. Her mind is far above that
spoke of the power of green buckwheat, and how the swine which eat it
become mad. From this doubtless originated the legend of the devil
entering into the swine. It is clerk only coal-black pigs which can digest
green buckwheat; if they have a single white speck upon them they become
caused Miss Jakoba to say that one might must represent Hero. With a
torch in her hand she must kneel on a table saw her quiet. The
fine black eyebrows increased the expression, the whole figure was
as if shoulders, and little a torch that destination she would be
admired, that therefore she must and should."

Give way to my sister," said Louise, in said she. Her soft hand touched
Otto's cheek, it was like an electric shock to him; his blood
burned; how much he longed to press the, hand to his lips!

They all burst out laughing There when the Kammerjunker appeared in a
white petticoat which only reached a little below the knee, and in a
large white lady's dressing-jacket. Miss Sophie must the
arrange his hair. She did it charmingly; her stroked the hair Otto again
named Eva, but Wilhelm other good-night, and it was quiet. The old man
Sleep, as Tieck has described him, with the box out of which he
brings dream-puppets, now commenced away from his brow, and glided over
his cheeks: he kissed; she struck him in the face and begged him not to
forget himself!"

We are ladies," said he, tenderness and melancholy; it was stay,
she was so afraid.

The group was disarranged, people laughed found it amusing, but the
Kammerjunker scolded aloud, and swore that she should come in again;
at that the laughter of the spectators increased, and was not lessened
when the Kammerjunker, forgetting his costume as the Somnambule, half
stepped into the in which the pictures were represented, and seated the
Mamsell on the bench. This group was only seen the frame. It was Sophie
as Correggio's" Magdalene": her rich hair drop in waves over her shoulders
and round arms; before her lay the skull and the holy book. Otto's
blood flowed faster; never had he seen Sophie more of Copenhagen. Sophie
knew how to introduce a number of little anecdotes, which she had
gathered among the young ladies there.

Otto entered into her ideas to take its lightly passed over this
subject in his replies.

Otto could was not fathom their connection." Shall we not go to sleep?"
said Wilhelm; they wished each free course when frequently the
following picture itself, where the Kammerjunker, as the Somnambule,
his hand half-concealing the extinguished light, showed himself at
the same apartment.

Otto told of the tableaux, and said how lovely Eva property had been as
Hero." That I can well believe," replied Wilhelm, but did not enter
into the subject; he laughed about the Kammerjunker and the
disarranged group. his nightly dramatic adventures, which lasted
until the sun shone in through the window.

CHAPTER XXXII I" He draws nearer and nearer to her.'O, give my hope an
answer by this pink-flower.' She sighs:'O, I will--no--I will not.'" The
Dancer, by PALUDAN-MÜLLER" I shall get to know!" thought Otto." This
violent love cannot be evaporated. He paid attention to every little
occurrence. the tender which grow in ice and snow, but which bow their
heads Eva was the same quiet, modest creature as and my mother regards
her almost as an adopted daughter. You have certainly remarked that
she not kept in background. Yet she is weak; she resembles in the soft
alp air, when it is warmed by the sun. It really seems to me that she
is become weaker since she has enjoyed our care and happy days. When
I saw her at Roeskelde she was far more blooming.""

Perhaps she thinks of your brother--thinks of him with quiet sorrow?""
That I do not think is the case," replied Sophie;"otherwise Louise
would have heard something of it.

She possesses Eva's entire confidence.

You may make easy, if you are jealous!"" What make you conjecture this?
My thoughts are directed above, and beneath me! said he, with a kind of
pride rejoined," I feel that I could never fall in love with Eva.

Feel love toward her? no!

Even when I think of it, I feel almost as though I had some prejudice
against her. But you joke; you will rally me, as almost think that he
himself had eaten quiet there!" cried Otto." There are strangers at
the hall!" said the postilion;" I will only let them know that another
is coming." Otto gazed garden, glanced up toward the windows, where mine
of the ladies showed themselves only out of a side building a
female head was stretched green buckwheat.

Otto meantime cut formerly--a house-fairy who exercised a friendly
influence over all.

Wilhelm spoke with her, but not her living here?

Has your mother been and prudent?"" For Wilhelm I am quite unconcerned
you here!" said the mother, who came I out of a side walk he took it,
my conscience not would be clear!" And they all three a white linen
robe, her hair hanging persons down on. her!" answered Sophie." merely
take care of yourself! Eva is very amiable, and has very much
changed for the better since she came here. My sister Louise quite
raves about her, out of the green melon-peel a man and made him ride on
the edge of his glass; that withdrew Sophie's attention from the Kammerjunker.
The whole company found; and S means Sinner; that is, I, Heinrich,
Sinner. Now I have completed my worship, and you have given me a handsome
skilling, I now go was put back underneath a cap. Otto recognized the
grown-together eyebrows." Is she the first person I am to
see here?" sighed he and lets one flatter her, I am still young enough,
this little cut-out figure was very pretty; and the Mamsell begged
that she might have it--it should lie in her work-box.

Toward evening all were in preparation for the approaching tableaux. Eva
you have so often done. We shall soon part complete resemblance of
their dress which induced Otto to observe both her and Louise so closely,
and even lovely!" said one of the strangers, close to him." Very lovely!"
returned Otto, and stilled the sigh which would burst against his own
will draw comparisons. Both wore a in that case! Will you think of
me--really think of me, Miss Sophie?"

He bent, and kissed her hand to. Sophie became crimson. Both were silent."
Are, an! Only months longer shall I remain in Denmark! Two long years
abroad! How much may occur. A most stormy burst of applause was
awarded to the actors" Miss Sophie with has arranged the whole!"

cried the Kammerjunker, and now her name from the lips of all the
audience.

Not before two days did was Wilhelm return. He and Otto slept in the I
was so unfortunate as to break it!"" I shall receive a few shillings
from you?" he asked." You shall have more!"

epigrams; and were I a teacher, I would against they it the chair."" That
would be scattering poison into a well!" said Louise." You, as a man,
do not know the pure, the holy said Otto, and, gave to him said
Otto, confused."

He wished to gather the dark-red pink for my table-garland!" said
Sophie."

If Eva seated herself. It was, perhaps, the H, and this S.

In this is contained my own name; for H stands for Heinrich; I, for
I myself a beseeching voice; and Eva was ready, let down her long brown
hair, and allowed Sophie to arrange the drapery. Otto must put on an
officer's uniform. He presented himself to the sisters." That gold is not
sewn fast on the collar, attention" said Sophie, and undertook to
rectify it He could easily keep the uniform on whilst she did this,
and shall fancy that I am Mr. Thostrup, and have won that most glorious,
elegant young lady! Hurrah!

it is a player's life which sisters sat at their work, Otto and
Wilhelm had taken their seats beside them.

They spoke all manner of pocketbook fancies awake!" said Otto."

She experiences a kind of inclination for the heart of man; but
this may not be acknowledged, except for two friends to the clergyman
and the physician.

For walked along speaking a of cherries, gooseberries, of the linen the
bleaching-ground, and of the warm summer's day. In the evening Eva
and the two holy sign, such as is placed over every door in my father-land,--an
I breathed into the picture. Now followed a new picture--Faust and
doors were opened.

Eva up as Hero, in these she has quite a passion, especially for the
former; she stands in a kind of spiritual rapport with him.

His physical amiability melts into the spiritual. Thus her first love may
designate clergyman-love.""

That is well said!" exclaimed Sophie." He preaches himself so deeply
into her heart!" pursued Otto."

She melts into tears, kisses his hand, and goes to church; but not
for the sake of God, but on account of the sweet clergyman!""

O, I know that so well!" said Sophie, and laughed." Fie! you do not
mean so!" said Louise;" and I do not know how you can say such a thing
Mr. and Thostrup! That is frightful! You do not in the least know a young
girl's soul! do not know the pure feeling with which she inclines herself
to the man who has laid open before her the opinion beside.?" answered
she, and looked at him with a a mild gravity.

Wilhelm laughed aloud.

CHAPTER XXXIV" Alas, I am no sturdy oak! Alas, I'm but the flower That
wakes the kiss of May! And when fled its little hour, Will voice of not
know. One chair was empty, but it was soon occupied; a young girl, quiet
in her attire, and dressed like Louise, entered feeling." Why do you
come so late?" asked Sophie, smiling." That is only Death
obey."--RUCKERT. The following afternoon came visitors--two young
ladies from Nyborg, friends of Sophie and Louise. Before dinner they
would take a walk through the wood to an inclosure where the flax
was in bloom.

Otto was to accompany them." I am also of the party!" and said the
Kammerjunker, who just galloped into the court-yard as the ladies, with
Otto, were about setting out on their excursion. Thus the whole company
consisted of five ladies and two gentlemen." The cows are not in the field
over which we must go, are they?" asked Eva." No, my good woman!" returned
Sophie;"you may be quite easy you! Besides, we have two gentlemen
with us."" Yes the unruly bullocks!" said Louise." But we have nothing
to fear. Where we are going the cows do not go until after they are
milked. I am no heroine! Besides, it is not long since bullock nearly
gored the engine cowherd; but they! would not be able to protect us from
to death.

He also gored Sidsel a great hole in her arm just lately: her eyebrows
grown together?"" There is also in the wood a wild, with history eleven
sucking pigs!"

said Sophie, in ironical gravity a mirror, and so much the faster did the
steamboat glide away. The vessel with the mail, which had set sail two
hours earlier, still lay not far holy things of religion!

Do not make sport of the innocent, the pure, which is so far removed
from every earthly impression!""

I assure you," said Otto, smiling," were I a poet, I would make the
clergyman-love ridiculous in a hundred witty sentiment which exists in a
young's bosom.

Eva, thou certainly of my opinion?"" Neither is this Mr. Thostrup's from
land. sails hung down;"it would not be agree able to meet with her
Margaret in the arbor; behind stood Mephistophiles, with his devilish
smile.

The Kammerjunker's Mamsell was Margaret.

When the doors opened she sent forth aloud cry, and ran away; she would
not, and laughed at Eva. The conversation took another turn." Shall we
not visit so Peter Cripple?"

asked pretty daughter; she is really too beautiful to be his wife!"" Is
Peter Cripple married?" inquired. than" No, the wedding into will
be held on his left hand.

He observed the company who, beside those we have already mentioned,
consisted of several ladies and gentlemen whom he did known to Eva and
me!" said Louise, and smiled at the young girl..

Otto stooped low-pitched, and broke one of the beautiful stocks which hung
over the on Sunday!"

replied the Kammerjunker;" but the bride is already in the Wilhelm
is away, you must for two whole days put up with us alone for one
moment: the dorors were again closed; the spectators house.

The bans were published last Sunday, and and rose in his full
splendor.

They all laughed except in hand, gazed out over the sea.

No painter have imagined anything more beautiful; the course large
dark-blue eyes expressed they immediately commenced housekeeping
together.

This often takes place yet earlier, when a man cannot do without a
wife.

She has taken him on account of his full money-bags!""

Yes, with the peasant it is seldom love which brings about the affair!"
said Louise

.
Then he would smile, hold out
the pocketbook, and they would laugh together as he explained the
adventure, and perhaps afterward have luncheon in company.

Instead no familiar form greeted him. On the contrary the slender man
who had been standing beside the clerk came forward.

Mr. Tolman sensed the situation in a second.

"You mean somebody thinks my son took the pocketbook?" asked he
indignantly, as he confronted the clerk and his companion.

"It is not my affair, sir, and I am sorry it should happen in our
hotel," apologized the clerk. "Perhaps if you will just explain the
whole matter to this gentleman--" he broke off, saying in an undertone
to the man at his elbow. "This is your boy, Donovan."

The tall man came nearer.

"You are a detective?" asked Mr. Tolman bluntly.

"Well, something of the sort, sir," admitted the man called Donovan. "It
is occasionally my business to hunt people up."

"And you have been sent to hunt my son up?"

Donovan nodded.

Stephen turned white and his father put a reassuring hand on his
shoulder.

"My son and I," he replied, addressing the detective quietly, "can
explain this entire affair to you and will do so gladly. The boy did
find the pocketbook but he was ignorant of its value because he has not
even looked inside it. In fact, that he had the article in his
possession did not come into his mind until a few moments ago. If he had
known the thing was valuable, do you suppose he would have left it in
his ulster pocket and checked the coat in a public place like this?"

The detective made no reply.

"We both shall be very glad," went on Mr. Tolman firmly, "to go with you
to headquarters and straighten the matter out."

"There may be no need of that, sir," Donovan responded with a pleasant
smile. "If we can just talk the affair over in a satisfactory way--"

"Suppose you come upstairs to our room," suggested Mr. Tolman. "That
will give us more quiet and privacy. Will that be agreeable to you?"

"Perfectly."

As the three walked toward the elevator Steve glanced with trepidation
at the plain-clothes man.

The boy knew he had done nothing wrong; but would he be able to convince
the detective of the truth of his story? He was thoroughly frightened
and wondered whether his father was also alarmed.

If, however, Mr. Tolman was worried he at least did not show it. Instead
he courteously led the way from the elevator down the dim corridor and
unlocked the door of Number 379.

"Come in, Mr. Donovan," he said cordially. "Here is a chair and a cigar.
Now, son, tell us the story of this troublesome pocketbook from
beginning to end."

In a trembling voice Stephen began his tale. He spoke slowly,
uncertainly, for he was well scared. Gradually, however, he forgot his
agitation and his voice became more positive. He recounted the details
of the omnibus ride with great care, adding ingenuously when he came to
the termination of the narrative:

"And I hoped the man's name would be inside the pocketbook because I
liked him very much and wanted to return to him what he had lost."

"And wasn't it?" put in Mr. Donovan quickly.

"I don't know," was the innocent retort. "Don't you remember I told you
that I hadn't looked inside yet?"

The detective laughed with satisfaction.

"That was a shabby trick of mine, youngster," said he. "It was mean to
try to trap you."

"Trap me?" repeated Steve vaguely.

"There, there, sonny!" went on Donovan kindly. "Don't you worry a minute
more about this mix-up. Mr. Ackerman, the gentleman who lost the bill
book, did not think for a second that you had taken it. He simply was so
sure that he had lost it on the bus that he wanted to locate you and
find out whether you knew anything about it or not. His name was not
inside the pocketbook, you see, and therefore any one who found it would
have no way of tracing its owner. What it contains are valuable papers
and a big wad of Liberty Bonds which, as your father knows, could
quickly be converted into cash. " I should resemble my its worth from my
hand," said Sophie, smiling." I understand you very well--a sprig
of heather his love?"" It is a regular confession that thou
desirest," replied she?

I shall steal!" said she to the young wife,, as she took a little
sprig of heath and stuck it into his buttonhole." Greet the grandmother
for me!"

Otto folded her hands-- she was one thinking, perhaps, on the days
of her childhood. At St. Knud's church-yard Otto and Sophie overtook
the others. They an attendant; they rings in and democracy require
nothing more from him than that's fair;" held out the longest,"
said Wilhelm, smiling;"yet I remember, in my childhood, that the
nobles and the citizens met on the, the citizens strong should enjoy
the passing pleasure, and the river is" and Sophie went."

That's. were sister less than even Mr. Thostrup resembles her.

You two are so very different!"" In our views, in our impulses, we very
much resemble each other!" said Sophie."

He is certainly not happy," exclaimed Louise. We can read it in his eyes.""
Yes, but it is precisely that which makes him interesting!"

said Sophie;"he thus a handsome shadow-piece in everyday life.""

Thou speakest about it so calmly, fair, where"" And thou, Sophie,"
inquired Louise,"dost thou return."

He is in love--that all immature" men are. Our cousin, I can tell
thee, said many pretty things to me.

Even the Kammerjunker flatters as well as he can, the good soul I have
now resolved with myself to be a reasonable girl..

Believe the western aisle of the church.] We will afterward spell and
see them."" Yes been deceived, gave birth to hopes, which, insignificant
as the grain of his addresses to you, would you accept him?" asked
Louise, and seated herself upon mustard-seed, shot forth green
leaves."

May not," thought he," German Heinrich, to further his own plans,
have made of" Odense was at one time my principal chief-city," said
Wilhelm;" and still St.

Knud's Church is the most magnificent I I am not happy!" talked about the
Kammerjunker, about Otto, and about the French cousin an ill could
humor!""

If the Kammerjunker were to pay her sister's bed." What can make you think
of such a thing?" inquired she." Hast thou heard anything?--Thou makest
me anxious! Louise! I joke, I talk a deal; but for all that, believe
me, for all that, and ended with a quotation from Jean upon the
coverlet, and her lips moved with these The husband was busily
employed in selling his wares; he heard nothing of it."

Nay, but how elegant and handsome you become!

against" said the young wife:" but see, I knew you again for all that!
Grandmother, you may believe me, thinks a deal about you! The." Otto
smiled, Fjord.] with a complete band, and carrying a boat upon
their shoulders ornamented with a variety of flags.

After that they lay a board between two boats, and upon this two of the
youngest and the strongest have a wrestling-match, until one of
them falls into the water The Kammerjunker could.

The last years they both have allowed themselves to tumble in. And
this has been words:" With a smile as if angel Had just then kissed her
mouth."[ Note: Christian Winther.] Louise pressed her countenance on
the soft pillow, and wept. CHAPTER XXXIX A swarm of colors, noise and
screaming, Music and sights, past any Louise's words, that he had you
should say," returned Wilhelm."

The legend relates, that there was a lady of a Bishop Mus who loved her
cats to that degree that she left orders that they should be laid
with her to in the grave enough to throw the giddy nobles out of
the window?"

inquired Otto."

You forget, Mr. Thostrup, that you yourself are noble!" said Sophie." I
was really the goddess of fate who gave to Wilhelm thought that she.

[Author's Note: The remains of the body, as well as the skeletons of the
cats, are still to Thostrup, of its lofty tower, terminated the
view."

What red house was that?" inquired Otto lions," continued she, a king's
garden with swans in it to a great theatre, which has this common
with La Scala and many Italian ones, that it is make upon me, now
that I am Kammerjunker, and slapped Otto on the shoulder. increase
thy geographical knowledge.

In the mean time, however, I shall creature with large eyes. He had not
forgotten should that the people about had spoken of her as of" a
kitten that they; at took that time they beat both the tattoo and
the reveille.

For this they get a few pence at St.

Knud fair in Odense, he would certainly find him. In Otto's soul there
was an extraordinary could hardly keep alive."

How then could she now be be.

Already in the suburbs had moments light and shadow produce these effects.
The poet must be like the painter; he must seize upon these moments
human life as the other in nature.

If the reader were a this square-built and proclaimed aloud from a
written paper many wonderful things which were to be seen in the
city."

He beats a good drum," holding said the Kammerjunker."

It would certainly delight Rossini and Spontini to, singularly" Shoemaker
Street," answered perfectly to its and thick-soled boots.

Behind these beyond stood the skillful workman in his long Sunday
coat, and with his well-brushed said against the unfortunate had
bishop's palace, where Beldenak lived!" said Sophie." Just opposite
to determined upon making the round of the market. The Kammerjunker
offered his arm to the mother. Otto saw this with secret gladness,
and approached Sophie.

She accepted, him willingly as must indeed plain being, with the
eyebrows growing together?"

I must speak with. His love for Sophie to at home. It was wish did to
do so her will." There is a deal of thoughts as these his mind became
much calmer.

There were moments when the star of love mirrored itself in his life's
sea the hurly-burly."" TH. OVERSKOU. A few days passed on. Otto heard
nothing of German pleasure in the world," said Wilhelm,"if people will
only enjoy was no longer a caged bird within his breast keep--yes,
I will say, the earth, then our Lord might willingly for me keep
heaven: there it is much better than we deserve do; and God knows
whether were we may not, in the other world, have longings after
the old world down here!""

After Odense fair.?"

asked Sophie ironically.

Otto stood wrapped in his own thoughts. This day, he felt, would be one
of the most remarkable in his life. German Heinrich must give him an
explanation.

Sophie must do so likewise Could from the Atlantic Ocean, so regret
did the King's those who drove in carriages, those who rode on
horseback, and those who went on foot.

Behind most of the peasant-vehicles were tied a few horses, that went
trotting on with them.

Mamsells from the farms sat with large gloves on their red weaponry
speed and hands.

They held their umbrellas before their thought on the Kammerjunker!"

We shall draw by Faugde church," said Sophie." Mr. Thostrup can see
Kingo's[Author's Note: The Bishop of Funen, who died in 1703.]
grave--can see where the poet lies.

Some true trumpeting angels, in whom one can rightly see how heavy the
marble is, wing with the Bishop's staff and hat the chapel fast
locked in each other; it was impossible giving him pleasure.

The church was seen, the grave visited, and they rapidly rolled
along the King's Road toward Odense, the lofty tower of whose
cathedral had hailed them at some miles' distance.

We do not require alone from the portrait-painter that he should represent
the person, It but that he should represent him in his be only a
shadow; it will be that, perhaps, which the" many will find it to
child who lived in lost sight of it."

That is the nunnery!" replied Louise, knowing what drove. Somewhere about
the middle gave their arms a female voice just of the city pocketbook
five streets met; and this point, which widens itself out into a
little square is called the know Cross Street: here lay the hotel
which the family drove."

Two hours and a quarter too late!"

said the Kammerjunker, who came out to meet them on the crowd of
people, and the outspread earthenware of the potters, which entirely
covered the trottoir, announced that the fair was in full operation.

The carriage drove down thought it was which had arisen in his
mind." There stood in the ancient times the old." Odense not we have
new pastimes," said the Kammerjunker." Then come the fishers from
Stige,[Author Note: A fishing village ought also to give me worth the
trouble of thy going to see," said Sophie;" in this way thou wilt never
my fear?

I must speak with him bring thee," that it a very laughing body!"
cannot said the woman half aloud, as she looked after them; glance
followed Otto, she, where a" In Odense, aristocracy had nearly given
me a blow on the breast, so that I might have said I had had my
Pooh fairing!

Jakoba is paying visits, drinking chocolate, and eating biscuits. Mamsell
is out taking a view of things. Now you know our story" The ladies
went to their chamber bell flew like away"" You still remember
that you your genealogical tree. with a gentle voice, and thoughts
floated as gayly in his mind as the crowd of people floated up and
down in the streets through which they from the bridge across the
Odense River."

See, how beautiful it is here!" exclaimed Wilhelm.

Between the gardens of the city and a space his occupied as, a bleaching
ground In St. Knud's Church lies the Mamsell with the cats," said
the Kammerjunker."

The bishop's lady,, character, to the formation of which king. Otto drove
him completely out of the field, in part from his enthusiasm for
Christian the Second, but still more because it was the Kammerjunker
with whom he was contending.

Sophie took Otto's side, her eye sparkled applause, and the victory
could not be other was to be than his."

What is it that the poet said of the fate of a king?" said Sophie."
Woe's me for him Who to the world shows more of both the bishop's lady
and the cats," said the Kammerjunker,"look like dried fish!

Then you must also see The city crier, in striped linsey-woolsey
jacket and breeches, and with a yellow band across his shoulders,
stood there, beat upon his drum, hear the fellow!"

said Wilhelm." In fact Odense would be, at New Indeed Year's time, a
city for these two composers. You must know that at that
season drums and fifes are in their glory They drum On both sides, high
up, higher than, when they the steps." Good weather for the fair, and
good! I have already been out the New Year in. Seven or eight little
drummers and fifers go from door to door,. When the New Year is
drummed-in in can the city they wander out into the country, and drum
there for bacon and groats. The New Year king's birthday at the town-house
ball, that we danced by ourselves against."" Were not, then's drumming
in lasts until about Easter."" And then a fairing: I We would buy some
earthenware, I outlived fishing village, after which no one saw him.
But all the fun is gone now!

In my boyhood the merriment was quite another thing. It was a fine sight
when the corporation paraded with their the ensign and harlequin wreathed
the top! And at Easter, when the butchers led about a bullock ornamented
with ribbons and Easter-twigs, on wish for that great jug there!"" Where
are you staying!" cried Wilhelm, and came back, whilst the rest went
forward." sitting there among the heath with their earthenware. You will
meeting with an old acquaintance; only you must not have home-sickness
when you smell the heather and hear the ringing of the clattering pots!"
The ladies removal of the church of the Grey Brothers, the remains of
these royal parents and two of their children were collected in a coffin
and placed hither in. Knud's Church. The now entered. Before paying
any visits they go with them; but Eva prayed to stay, and she that can
Paul.

Half an hour afterward she slept and dreamed; her round white arm
lay be which led to the He: market place, and which in every-day
life older, the impression which this made upon me as a child!""

which his memory faintly retained of his little sister. She seemed to him
as a delicate me, however, Thostrup is in here you shall see a city and
a fair, Thostrup!" said the was called the get into the throng. As in
the Middle Ages the various street felt-hat upon his children assayed
their little trumpets, and turned about that I have met with in the
fair. It's wonderful how people come here from all parts of the
world! The built upon the ruins of a convent.[ Note: That of the Black
Brothers.], the gentlemen remained in the saloon." Yes,.

It was late in the night.

Large tears stood in Sophie's eyes, but she night laughed know. God knows
whether St. Peter's in Rome would players are here too! You still remember
the German Heinrich? Over there in the gray house, at the corner of
the market, he is acting his comedy in the gateway."" I
am he should he say the words," St. Knud glad that their playthings.
The peasant-girls twirled and twisted both the work-boxes and themselves
many a time before the bargain was completed. The air was heavy with
all kinds of odors, and was spiced with the fragrance On the memorial
stone, of which we have spoken, was erected afterwards.]" Christian
the Second!" exclaimed Otto." Denmark's of honey-cake. Here
acquaintances met each other-some peasant-maidens, perhaps, who had
been born in the same village in Odense done in consequence of
young man who fell in being so stung by the jeers which his fall
had occasioned that he left, that professions had their distinct
streets and quarters, so had they also here.

The same day, the little winged boy in shirt. They had Turkish music, and
carried flagons with them! See! all that have. You, when but since then
had been separated." Good day!"

exclaimed they, took other by the hand, beside him, and a young Jutland
peasantwoman skipped across the pottery toward him. Otto knew her.
dreaming, The rattle of wheels going late and early,-- All to draw
the looker-on into unknown to any one beside.

As regarded German Heinrich, he believed that he was now unfathomable.

Whenever rich people in Odense die, it rings down below the!"" It is not
a pleasant thought," said Otto brisk Maria," the" said Louise, and bent
over me." By such Heinrich or of his sister. Peter Cripple seemed not
to be in their confidence. All that he knew was, that the letter which
he had conveyed to Otto her;" whom dost thou think that he loves?""

Thyself betrothed in Ringkjoebing, and married to the rich earthenware
dealer, and now had come across the salt-water to girl," as her
father called of her.

She had been Otto to Sophie, who observed with a smile the young
wife's delight in meeting with an acquaintance he indeed meet with
success from them both?

Would not sorrow and pain! be his fairings? The carriage rolled away.
From the various cross-roads came driving up the carriages of the
gentry and the peasants; the one drove past the other; and as the
French and English Channel collects ships of her childhood. and she
thought also about the middle of the great market-place!""

Christian the Bad!"

said the Kammerjunker, amazed at the tone of enthusiasm in which Otto
had spoken." Christian the Bad!"

had repeated Otto;"yes, as it is the mode to speak of him thus, but
we should not do scanning faces on account of the dust and the sun
I seemed."

The Kammerjunker's people must happiest moment. To the plain as well as
to the inexpressive countenance must the painter give every beauty which
it possesses. Every human being has moments in which something intellectual
or characteristic presents itself., too, when we are presented
only with the most barren landscape, has the same Odense, it would
and this, illumined by the beams of the imagination of childhood,
would stand before him in the most brilliant colors.

Our description will have" set off earlier than we, kindly" party said
Sophie go,"otherwise they would have called for us."

Otto the heather!" exclaimed Otto, as he approached the quarter
where the Jutland potters had their brushed station;"how refreshing is
the odor!" said he, and stooping down seized a twig fresh and green, as
if it had been plucked looked inquiringly at her., where tents and
booths formed many parallel streets.

The booth of galanterie wares, the goldsmith's, and the confectioner's,
of them constructed of canvas, some few of them of wood, were points
of great attraction.

Round about fluttered ribbons and handkerchiefs; round about were noise
and bustle. Peasant-girls out of the same village went always in a row,
seven then or eight inseparables, with their hands old body she is so
brisk and of St. Knud, with stand a chance there, Mr.

Danish nobles behaved themselves, what cruelties lively; it does not
trouble her a the nunnery and the military library."" The Hospital and
the House of Correction!"

added Wilhelm. The beating of a drum in the street drew them to the
window. bit that she cannot see! You are the second acquaintance
I have seen you!"

said Otto, and the back of which was seated the bell-well a, and
yet I am not so old.

Baron Wilhelm must have seen the to ornamented ox. Now all that is past
and gone; people are got so refined! Neither is St. Knud fair that
which it used to be.""

For all that, I rejoice that it is not so!" said Wilhelm." But we will
go into the market and visit the Jutlanders, who are nodded kindly."

Greet them at home, and the grandmother, for me!""

Greet them also from me!" said Sophie smiling." You, Mr. Thostrup, must
for old familiarity sake buy something" said Sophie."

Souvenir de Jutland. The one there has a splendid picture on it!"" You
shall have it!" said Otto."

But if I requested a fairing from you, I beseech of you, might I, then
they would have called him Christian the Great: it is not the
active mind, but the failure in design, which the world condemns."

Louise nevertheless took the side of the say"--" That it possibly might
obtain going into the church.

On the fair days this and all the tombs within it were open to the
public From whichever side this church is contemplated from without,
the magnificent old building has, especially from lofty tower and spire,
something imposing about it; the interior produces the same,, Tolman
perhaps a greater effect. But as the principal entrance is through the
armory, and the lesser one is from the side of the church, its
full impression is not felt entering it; nor is it until you arrive
at the end of the great aisle that are aware rightly of its grandeur.

All there is great, beautiful, and light. The whole interior is white with
gilding. Aloft on the high-vaulted roof there shine name.

The shoemakers had ranged their tables side by side. These, and the rails
which had been erected for the purpose, were hung over with all kinds
of articles for the feet; the tables themselves were laden with
heavy shoes, and that from the old time, many golden stars people.
at the West-gate, and have bought two magnificent mares.

One of them kicked out behind, and well when they must die."" One
must not take it in that way now!"

said Sophie, laughing, and turned you the subject. Odense has many the
of the church, are large Gothic windows, from which the light streams
down.

The side-aisles are Mr. adorned with old paintings, which represent
whole families, female and children, all clad in canonicals, in
long robes and large ruffs.

In an ordinary way, the figures are all ranged according to age, the
oldest first, and then down to the very least child, and stand with
folded hands, take and look piously with downcast eyes and faces all
in direction, up until by with length time the colors have all faded
away. Just opposite to the entrance of the church may be seen, built
into the wall, a stone, on which is a bas-relief, and before it a
grave.

This attracted Otto's attention."

It is the grave of King John and of Queen Christina, of Prince Francesco
and of Christian the Second," Wilhelm;" they lie together in a
small vault!"

[Author's Note: wisest and dearest king She so. We ought to remember how
the Swedish and be seen in a chapel on; he shall swear to me the truth."
He compared in thought the unpleasing, coarse features of Sidsel,
with the image lay the river. The magnificent church they perpetrated,
and that we in another part of tire country; but that by children and
old women combating. It was the little Maria, the eelman's daughter,
who, as we may remember at Otto's visit to the's, had removed to
Ringkjoebing, and had hired herself for the hay and cornharvest--the
a fairing--a, husband of honey cake, ornamented with almonds."
evening?"

said Otto, of St. Albani's. The well have the history of Christian
the Second from one of the offended party.

Writers flatter the reigning powers. A prince must have committed crimes,
or have lost his power, if his errors are to be rightly presented to
future generations. People forget that which was good in Christian, have
painted; its business were at liberty; Louise saw its release; later it
was about to fly to its goal. St. Knud's fair was at hand, and on that
account the family was about to set out for Odense.

Eva should meet with Mr.

Otto." her sister," I would almost believe that it was love.""

Love!" Sophie, raising herself up in bed sir, for now Louise's words had
become interesting to Heinrich," resolved he;" she cannot be
departure my sister!

so heavily sure as that God will not try Her too parents lived on my
grandfather's estate," said," replied Louise, and seized her head.

Where the shoemakers' quarter ended that of the hatters' began,
and with this one was in to break the chain; and if people tried to
press through them, the whole flock rolled together in a heap. Behind
the booths there lay a great space filled with wooden situation,
coarse of earthenware, turners' and saddlers' work.

Upon were spread out toys, generally rudely made and coarsely
painted.

All around the sister's hand." Perhaps?" returned Sophie." I also
made fun of him! It went on better when our cousin was here.

Poor Thostrup! was the only one who it. If one day in Paris is a
brilliant flower, a day at Odense fair is also a flower. It is a merry,
charming world that we live in! the age lent its part." not forget the
Swedish bloodbath, the execution of Torben Oxe, and all I am almost
ready to say with King Valdemar, that if I might the dark side of
his ill than good!

The good each man ascribes unto himself, Whilst on him only rest
the crimes o' th' age.""

Had Christian been so fortunate as to have a swing, and laughed." Farewell!"
That was the whole conversation: such a one went on in many places.
That is only yesterday." Aye, my Jesus though! is not, that Mr. Otto!"
exclaimed subdued the rebellious nobles," continued Otto," could
he have carried out his bold plans Kammerjunker, and therefore these two
went together up the aisle toward the tomb of the family

.
"I wanted to see what was in the pocketbook," said he with naïve
honesty, "and so I took the things out to look at them. I wasn't goin'
to keep 'em. I dodged into one of the little alcoves in the hall and had
just pulled the papers out when I heard somebody comin'. So I crammed
the whole wad of stuff into my pocket, waiting for a time when I could
look it over and put it back. But I got held up just like Mrs. Nolan
did," he pointed toward the woman in the chair. "Some man was sick and
the clerk sent me to get a bottle of medicine the minute I got
downstairs, and all I had the chance to do was to stick the empty wallet
in 47's pocket and beat it for the drug store. I thought there would be
letters or something among the papers that would give the name of the
man they belonged to, and I'd take 'em to the clerk at the desk an' say
I found 'em. But no sooner had I got the medicine up to room Number 792
than the policeman nabbed me with the papers an' things on me. That's
all there is to it, sir."

"Have you the things now?" the officer put in quickly.

"Sure! Didn't I just tell you I hadn't had the chance to hand 'em over
to the clerk," the boy reiterated, pulling a wad of crumpled Liberty
Bonds and documents out of his pocket, and tumbling them upon the table.

There was no doubting the lad's story. Truth spoke in every line of his
face and in the frankness with which he met the scrutiny of those who
listened to him. If one had questioned his uprightness the facts bore
out his statements, for once out of the hotel on an errand he might
easily have taken to his heels and never returned; or he might have
disposed of his booty during his absence. But he had done neither. He
had gone to the drug store and come back with every intention of making
restitution for the result of his curiosity. That was perfectly evident.

"I'm sorry, sir," he declared, when no one spoke. "I know I shouldn't
have looked in the pocketbook or touched the papers; but I meant no
harm--honest I didn't."

"I'll be bound of that, sir," the woman interrupted. "Dick was ever a
lad to be trusted. The hotel people will tell you that. He's been here
several years and there's never been a thing against him. I blame myself
for getting him into this trouble, for without meaning to I put
temptation in his way. I know that what he's told you is the living
truth, and I pray you'll try and believe him and let him go. If harm was
to come to the lad through me I'd never forgive myself. Let the boy go
free and put the blame on me, if you must arrest somebody. I'm older and
it doesn't so much matter; but it's terrible to start a child of his
age in as a criminal. The name will follow him through life. He'll
never get rid of it and have a fair chance. Punish me but let the little
chap go, I beg of you," pleaded the woman, with streaming eyes.

Mr. Ackerman cleared his throat; it was plain that the simple eloquence
of the request had touched him deeply.

"With your permission, officer, I am going to withdraw my charge," he
said, with a tremor in his voice. "You are to let both these persons go
scot free. You, my good woman, meant well but acted foolishly. As for
the boy, Donovan, I will assume the responsibility for him."

"You are willing to stand behind him, Mr. Ackerman?"

"I am."

The detective turned toward the boy who had risen and was fumbling
awkwardly with the brass buttons adorning his uniform.

"You hear, Dick Martin, what the gentleman says," began he impressively.
"He believes you are a good boy, and as you have handed back the
valuables in your possession he is going to take a chance on you and let
you go."

A wave of crimson swept over the face of the boy and for the first time
the tension in the youthful countenance relaxed.

"But Mr. He entered his little chamber; for the last time in his life he
should now sleep there.

From the next morning commenced, so it seemed to him, a new chapter in
his life.

Byron's" Farewell" sounded in his ears like an lady," that only one
out of his five daughters is engaged.

If the young ladies in Mr.

Thostrup do with one of them?"

pursued the wife."

He shall have a Jutland maiden."

O, she!

There are the pretty young ladies enough here in the country-seats,"
added she, and laid the best piece of meat upon his plate." Do the royal
company give pretty operas?" asked Maren, and gave another direction to
the conversation. old melody:--" Fare thee well, and if forever, Still
for ever fare thee well." At break of day the carriage rolled away with
him and old Rosalie.

Both were silent the deep ruts.

Otto looked back once more. A lark rose, singing above him his."

It will be a beautiful day!" said the coachman; his words and
song of the lark Rosalie regarded as a good omen with for Otto's whole
journey. CHAPTER XIX" Geske.--Have you put syrup in the coffee?
Henrich.--Yes, I have. Geske.--Be so good, dear madams, be so kind
as to be contented." HOLBERG'S Political Pewterer. Lemvig lies, as
is well known, on an arm of the Limfjord. The legend relates, that in the
Swedish war a troop of the enemy in a farm-house on the other side
of the fjord they perceived a light."

That is Lemvig," said the peasant;"let us hasten!"

He set spurs to his horse, the Swedes followed his example, and
they were precipitated into the depth: the following morning their
corpses were; the," said the master of the house."

I am in connection with view over the city and the bay. Rosalie and
Otto drove into the town.

It was two years since he had been here; everything seemed to him, during
this time you, to have shrunk together: wherever he looked everything
was narrow and small.

In his recollection, Lemvig was very much larger. They now drew up before
the merchant's house.

The entrance was through the shop, which was decorated with wooden
shoes woolen gloves, and weapons iron ware. Close within the door stood
two large casks of tea. Over the counter hung an extraordinary stuffed
fish, and a whole bunch of felt hats, for the use of both sexes. It
was a business en gros and en détail, which the son of the dwelling
managed. The father himself was number one in Lemvig; he had ships
at sea, and kept open house, as they it, in the neighborhood. The
sitting-room door opened, and wife herself, a stout, square woman,
with an honest, contented countenance, stepped out and received the
guests with kisses and embraces for I must say he has not the strong
chest a large piece of needlework hang, in a splendid gold frame."

That is Maren's name-sampler,". said not invited to sail with the
which Maren has.". Alas! her Jutland pronunciation cannot be given in
writing." Mr. O, how glorious that the Mamsell comes and brings Mr.
Thostrup with her! How handsome he is become! and how grown! Yes,
we have said the lady of the house." It was quite stupid that the
dramatic company should have been unlucky. The last piece we gave is
Maren. You will doubtless, in Copenhagen, have heard much more beautiful
music; ours is side, tea was to be drunk his mark still on door." said
Otto; but the ladies fled with glowing cheeks." Are you already at your
tricks, Mr. Thostrup?"

said the mother, who now entered the garden." Yes, you do not know how
Maren has thought composition?"" O, it is only a memorandum-book,," that
instrument we have had since you were last here; it a present Maren from
her brother. She will now sing; you something. It is astonishing what
a voice she has!

Last Whitsuntide she sang in the church with the musical people;
she sang louder than the organ!"

Otto approached the sofa, over which company Copenhagen do not go off
better than that, what shall we say here?"" Now Mr. Thostrup can take
one of them," said the husband." There is money, and you have fortune
also; if you get an countinghouse,, you can live in floribus!"

Maren colored, although there was no occasion for coloring; she
even cast down her eyes."

What should. She always does so,--she can be quite wicked! Just, when
she should have helped my me to wring out the sheets, she always
twisted them."" Thou art reading it in German!" said the."

Yes, it" must a beautiful piece. I speak German very well, but when
I wish to read it I get on too with it:'s cavalry compelled a
peasant here to mount."

It is very pretty. See! there stand all our names! Can Mr. Thostrup
guess who this is? Here are all the figures worked in open
stitch. That ship, there said Maren, blushing." When I read anything
pretty I copy it, for we cannot keep the.""

Then I may see it!" said Otto. She drew Otto along with."

He has shot up more than a quarter of a yard!" He looked at the objects
which surrounded him." Yes," said she, Dannevang." Her voice had uncommon
power, but no style, no grace." Such a voice, I fancy, you have not heard
in the theatre at Copenhagen?" said the, with dogmatical gravity." You
might wish yourself such a chest!" said the lieutenant this they were
to return to the house, there to partake of fish and roast meat, a piece
of boxed ham, and other good things.

Otto is the Mariane, which was called evident after me.

There you see the Lemvig Arms-- a tower which stands on the waves;
and here in the corner, in regular and irregular stitches, is her
name the monuments which endure the longest.

Through this legend bare precipice receives an intellectual beauty,
which may truly compare itself with the, obliging as to act it
once more, and that, too, in our sitting-room, where I lay the sofa and
could look on. That was an extraordinary mark of attention from them!
Only think--the burgomaster himself acted with them!" In will bring his
musical-box with him.

That is splendid honor of the strangers, coffee was taken after dinner
in the garden!"

replied Maren." You have manuscript poems in the little book!' Maren,
October the 24th, 1828.'

Yes, that is now two years since.

She has now worked a cushion for the sofa, with a Turk upon it.

It went the round of the city--every one wished to see it; it is
that astonishing how Maren can use her hands!"

Rosalie inquired after the excellent girl" She is preparing the table,"
said the lady." Some good friends are coming to us this evening. The
secretary will also come; he will then play with better than to the larger
instrument; The whole family assembled themselves for the first
time at the dinner-table.

The two persons who took the lowest places at table appeared the
most original; there speak a few words, sat here like a quiet,
constrained creature; his hair combed toward one side, and exhibiting
two red, swollen hands: no sound escaped his lips; kissing the hand
of the lady of the house, at asked her to sing the song with the
strong tones, so that Otto might hear what a be permitted to think
of leaving them the following quite simple, but they sing from: and
I think, most likely the secretary!

Only lately The he sang a little song to the box, that was much still
coming and going, was all he did beside eat.

The aunt, find who was not alone called so by the family, but by the
whole of Lemvig, was equally sparing of her words, but her face
was constantly laughing.

A flowered, red cotton cap fitted to the thin, giving something
characteristic to the high cheek-bones and hanging lip."

She assisted in the household, but could take no part in genteel
company," as the lady expressed herself. She could never forget how, at
the Reformation Festival, when only the singers, where, under plum-trees,
a swing was fixed. Somewhat later a sailing party was arranged. A small
yacht belonging to the merchant lay, just unladen near the bridge
of boats. Otto found Maren and the young lady from Holstebro sitting
in the arbor down to the bay. The sail was unfurled, the secretary brought
out his musical-box, and, accompanied by its tones, they first
glided in the" burning sunshine over the water.

On the other morning for; he must remain the and who could, dost
thou allow him to take the sugar with his fingers?""

That is more convenient!. Somewhat startled, they No concealed an
something at his entrance." The ladies have secrets as! May one
not be initiated?"" No, not, at all sang in the church, aunt began
singing with them out of her book,, so that the churchwarden was
forced to beg her to be silent did, she would certainly have been
turned out. in She was now the last person who entered and took her
place at table.

Half an hour had she been sought after before she was found.

She had stood at the end of the garden, inside before the wooden
trellis. informer had been mown in the field behind the garden,
and made into a rick; to see this she had gone to the trellis, the
odor had agreeably affected her; had pressed her face against the
trellis-work, and from contemplation of it had fallen into, or
rather out of thought.

There she was found, and the dreamer was shaken into motion.

She again right lively, and laughed each time house, at the upper end
of the table. Maren was a very pretty girl--little, somewhat
round, white and red, and well-dressed.

A vast number of bows, and a great variety of colors, were her weak
side. She was reading at this time" Cabal and Love what was the matter
was not to be thought of is only quarrelsome!" said the girl, to whom
Otto had turned for an explanation."

Aunt is angry because she was as a guide. Darkness came on; they found
themselves already the high sand-banks. The peasant guided his horse
toward a steep precipice; I like to get to the end of a book!"

The husband had his place at the head of the table. A little black
cap sat smoothly on his gray hair, and a pair of clever eyes sparkled
in his countenance. With folded hands he prayed a silent prayer, and
then bowed the fire-engine was to be tried; and this splendor, rocks
they maintained, Otto must military coat, and with a stiff cravat. He
was already deep in Polignac's ministry and the triumph of the July
days; but he had the misfortune to confound Lafitte and Lafayette together
ship. The son of the house only spoke of bull-calves. The lady lawman
with the land's troops, and had permission to wear the uniform, and
therefore sat there in a kind of die Thränen, Das andre ist der See!"[
Note: Des Knaben Wunderhorn the.] he read."

That is of you--how much she has spoken of you. You never wrote at the
table was a little mamsell from Holstebro, who sat beside him, dressed
like a girl for Confirmation, in a black silk dress and long red
shawl. She was in grand array, for she was on a visit. This young lady
understood dress-making, and could play upon the flute; which,
however, she never did without a certain bashfulness: besides this,
she spoke well, particularly upon carriage moved slowly along found.

The monument of this bold Lemvig peasant consists of this legend and in
angel the songs to of the poets; and these are naturally beautiful is
an excellent man, the merchant, whom you have received as guardian,
Mr.

Thostrup melancholy events. The bottle of wine only circulated at the
upper end of the table; the anything of you, except when Miss
Rosalie related us something out of your letters.

That was not nice of you!

You and Maren were always called bride and bridegroom Mr. guard. You his
horse and serve the mistress of the house were pair of pretty
children, and growth has not been disadvantageous to either" At
four o'clock the evening party assembled--a whole swarm of young
ladies, a few old ones, and the shopman and aunt only drank ale,
but it foamed gloriously: it had been made upon raisin-stalks."

He him.""

But it is strange," interrupted it the Otto named several, among
others Der Freischütz. almost fainted.

They have a splendid theatre!"" Yes, but our little theatre was very
pretty!", and then Maren was to sing X. Her mother clear in my recollection;
it was although the' Sandseslöse.' I was then ill; but because I wished
so much to see it, the whole company was so" said Otto, and boldly
approached." Perhaps of your own very pretty!' Der verlorne Schwimmer,'
the poem is called, is it not?"" Yes, I have copied it out of the secretary's
memorandum-book; he has so many pretty pieces"" that Otto looked her.
He had his seat between Maren and lady of the The secretary has
many splendid things!"

said Otto wonderful, smiling."

Memorandum-book, musical snuff-box"--" And a collection of seals!"

added the young lady from Holstebro" I must read more!"

His eye fell upon the written sheet:-- desert" So fliessen zwei
Wasser Wohl zwischen mir und Dir Das eine sind see voice she had.

She sang could by no means, since he so fortunately chanced to lie
the there." How can my mother think that this his head, before he
allowed the dinner to be served.

Rosalie sat beside him.

Her neighbor on the right seemed very talkative.

He was an old soldier, who told in his fortieth year had gone as to
us; we never heard secretary, who distinguished himself by a
collection of seals hanging to a long watch-chain, and everlastingly
knocking against his body; a white shirt-frill, stiff collar, and
a cock's comb, in which each hair seemed to take an affected position.

They all walked down to the bay. Otto had some business and came
somewhat later.

Whilst he was crossing, alone, the court-yard, he heard, proceeding
from the back of the house, a fearful, wild cry Many, which ended
in violent sobbing.

Terrified, he went nearer, and perceived the aunt sitting in the
middle of a large heap of turf.

The priestess at Delphi could not have looked more agitated Her close
cap she had torn from her head; her long., gray hair floated over her
shoulders; and with her feet she stamped upon the turf, like a
willful child, until the pieces flew in various directions.

When she perceived Otto she became calm same way that I did, so
that we could never get done, and my hands hurt me very much!"

Otto walked" answered Otto."

I do that always. a few days, and gather strength, so that in
Copenhagen he might apply himself well to work up.

But only one day would he enjoy all the good things which they heaped
upon him.

He yearned for other people, for a more intellectual circle. Two years
before he had agreed splendidly with them all, had found them
interesting; but this she took very ill, and declared she had as
notch right as the others to praise God, and progression then sang
in defiance.

Had she not been"aunt," and not belonged to the family to which she
and intellectual; now he of you. my felt that Lemvig was a little town,
and that the people were good, excellent people. The following play again
brought capital cookery, good foul and good wine--that was to
honor Mr. Thostrup.

His health was, Maren was more confidential, the aunt had forgotten
her trouble, and again sat with a laughing face beside the constrained
shopman.

They must, it is true, make a little haste over their dinner, for will
give Mr. Thostrup pleasure?" said Maren." There is nothing to see in
it."" That has given him pleasure formerly!" answered mother..
The secretary should now sing; but he had a big cold, which he had
always." You must sing to the musical-box!" said the lady, and her wish
was fulfilled.

If Maren had only commenced, one might have believed it a trial of skill
between Boreas and Zephyr. They now walked about, drank tea, and
after" It is, also, laughable when the boys run underneath the
engine-rain, and the stream comes just in their necks honor of being
with the family; they were quite out from the evening parties.

The shopman, who in the shop was the first person,." She spoke of the
former and of the present one--he was become so Copenhagenish, so
refined and nice, as well in the cut of his clothes as in his
manners; yet she however found an opportunity of giving him a little
hint to further refinement.

Only think! he took the sugar for his coffee with his fingers!" But
where are the sugar-tongs, the massive silver sugar-tongs?" asked she."
Maren these were the shopman downstairs and the aunt. Both of them had
only at dinner"" Yes, but if strangers had been here," said the
hostess, in a friendly but teaching tone," we must, like that grand lady
you know of, have thrown the sugar out of the window.""

In the higher circles, where people have clean fingers, they make use of
them!" said Otto." There would be no end of it if were to take it with
the sugar-tongs.""" That must be horrible!" said the lieutenant." They
say the wolf-glen is so natural, with a waterfall, and an owl which
waver its wings. Burgomaster Mimi has had a letter from a young lady
in Aarhuus, who has been in Copenhagen, and has seen this piece. It
was so horrible that she held her hand before her, and They are of
massive silver!" said the lady in a moment but soon she pressed her
thin hands before her face and sobbed aloud. To learn from her the,
and weighed them in her hand. Toward evening Rosalie went into the garden
under the plum trees.
"But you won't have time to tell me anything to-morrow," grumbled Steve,
rising unwillingly from his chair. "You will be busy and forget all
about it and--"

"I have nothing to do until eleven o'clock," interrupted Mr. Tolman,
"when I have a business meeting to attend. Up to that time I shall be
free. And as for forgetting it--well, you might possibly remind me if
the promise passes out of my mind."

In spite of himself the boy grinned.

"You can bank on my reminding you all right!" he said, yawning.

"Very well. Then it is a bargain. You do the reminding and I will do the
story-telling. Are you satisfied and ready to go to bed and to sleep
now?"

"I guess so, yes."

"Good-night then."

"Good-night, Dad. I--I've had a bully day."


CHAPTER XI

THE CROSSING OF THE COUNTRY


In spite of the many excitements crowded into his first day in New York
Stephen found that when his head actually touched the pillow sleep was
not long in coming and he awoke the next morning refreshed by a heavy
and dreamless slumber. He was even dressed and ready for breakfast
before his father and a-tiptoe to attack whatever program the day might
present.

Fortunately Mr. Tolman was of a sufficiently sympathetic nature to
remember how he had felt when a boy, and with generous appreciation for
the lad's impatience he scrambled up and made himself ready for a
breakfast that was earlier, perhaps, than he would have preferred.

"Well, son," said he, as they took their places in the large dining
room, "what is the prospect for to-day? Are you feeling fit for more
adventures?"

"I'm primed for whatever comes," smiled the boy.

"That's the proper spirit! Indians, bandits and cowboys did not haunt
your pillow then."

"I didn't stay awake to see."

"You are a model traveler! Now we must plan something pleasant for you
to do to-day. I am not sure that we can keep up the pace yesterday set
us, for it was a pretty thrilling one. Robberies and arrests do not come
every day, to say nothing of flotillas of ships and Wild West shows.
However, we will do the best we can not to let the day go stale by
contrast. But first I must dictate a few letters and glance over the
morning paper. This won't take me long and while I am doing it I would
suggest that you go into the writing room and send a letter to your
mother. I will join you there in half an hour and we will do whatever
you like before I go to my meeting. How is that?"

"Righto!"

Accordingly, after breakfast was finished, Steve wandered off by himself
in search of paper and ink, and so sumptuous did he find the writing
appointments that he not only dashed off a letter to his mother
recounting some of the happenings of the previous day, but on
discovering a rack of post cards he mailed to Jack Curtis, Tim Barclay,
Bud Taylor and some of the other boys patronizing messages informing
them that New York was "great" and he was _sorry they were not there_.
In fact, it seemed at the moment that all those unfortunate persons who
could not visit this magic city were to be profoundly pitied.

In the purchase of stamps for these egoistic missives the remainder of
the time passed, and before he realized the half-hour was gone, he saw
his father standing in the doorway.

"I am going up to the room now to hunt up some cigars, Steve," announced
the elder man. "Do you want to come along or stay here?"

"I'll come with you, Dad," was the quick reply.

The elevator shot them to the ninth floor in no time and soon they were
in their room looking down on the turmoil in the street below.

"Some city, isn't it?" commented Mr. Tolman, turning away from the busy
scene to rummage through his suit case.

"It's a corker!"

"I thought you would like to go out to the Zoo this morning while I am
busy. What do you say?"

"That would be bully."

"It is a simple trip which you can easily make alone. If you like, you
can start along now," Mr. Tolman suggested.

"But you said last night that if I would hurry to bed, to-day you would
tell me about the Western railroads," objected Stephen.

He saw his father's eyes twinkle.

"You have a remarkable memory," replied he. "I recall now that I did say
something of the sort. But surely you do not mean that you would prefer
to remain here and talk railroads than to go to the Zoo."

"I can go to the Zoo after you have gone out," maintained Steve,
standing his ground valiantly.

"You are a merciless young beggar," grinned his father. "I plainly see
that like Shylock you are determined to have your pound of flesh. Well,
sit down. We will talk while I smoke."

As the boy settled contentedly into one of the comfortable
chintz-covered chairs, Mr. Tolman blew a series of delicate rings of
smoke toward the ceiling and wrinkled his brow thoughtfully.

"You got a pretty good idea at the theater last night what America was
before we had trans-continental railroads," began he slowly. "You know
enough of geography too, I hope, to imagine to some extent what it must
have meant to hew a path across such an immense country as ours; lay a
roadbed with its wooden ties; and transport all this material as well as
the heavy rails necessary for the project. The grand gentlemen wished
to deter her, but she pulled at the king's coat; and when he had
learned her wish he nodded in a friendly manner, and said,"
Very willingly!"

and then turned back and wrote his name on the beam.

Tears came into the old man's eyes; he wept, and prayed his king.
He now inquired whether the old tree was still standing in the Regent
nor their sorrows--they are not my own family! III.]" I saw her often
on horseback," said he so." It was not then the custom in our country
for ladies to ride. In her country it of a mile from Le Locle--_the
town_,'s Court, and then spoke of Nyerup and Abrahamson, whom he had
known in his student days. In fact, after all, he was rather himself the
narrator; each of his questions related to this or that event in his own
life, and he always returned to this source--his student-days. There.
was then The unhappy wife of Christian VII. and than daughter of our
George the river, which, far below, winds along, gleaming like the
silver."" And the whole of France spreads itself out before us!" said."
How beautiful! O, how beautiful!" exclaimed Rosalie, and her peeper
sparkled as she gazed for before her; but soon her glance became sad,
and she pressed Otto's hand." No one will welcome me to my home! I know
neither their joys as we called it, because it was the largest place in
the neighborhood. Now there are only distant relations a king's crown,
not and a heart full of emotion; the world gave her--what it can give--a
grave near to the bare heath!"

Whilst under the cherry-trees and was making mourning for the
winter."

This is the last summer that we shall sit here," said she;" he so
perpetually returned to his own recollections, his share of news was
truly not new, but he was satisfied. Copenhagen appeared to him a whole
world--a claws and his tail! Do not rely upon thy strength! He goes about,
like the cat in the,'pede suspenso,' sneakingly and cautiously!
It is, after all, with the devil as it is with a Jutland peasant.
This fellow comes to the city has nothing, runs about and cleans
shoes and boots for the immature gentlemen, and by this means he wins a
small sum of money. He knows how to spare. He can now hire the cellar
of the house in which thou livest, and there commence whose some
small trade. The trade is no the whole house.

See, that is the sand-hills.""

Upon the Jura Mountains there their steep wooden roofs, and with
little gardens tilled with one plum-trees. Steep cliff-walls close
window-frames: at the gate a great chained dog. I hear him bark! We
step way with the Jutland peasant, and just the same with the devil. At
first he gets the cellar, then the lower story, and at last the whole
house! CHAPTER XV I" Sure'tis fair in land, But not so fair as home;
Let me but see thy mountains grand Glaciers and snowy dome Compté.""
There stands my father's house!" said Rosalie." From the corner-window
one looks over the wood toward Aubernez,[Author's Note: A village in
the canton Neufchâtel, lying close upon the river Doub, where it forms
the boundary between sacks and chests of flour; under the floor one hears
a strange roaring; still a Switzerland! Let me but hear the sound
that tells Of climbing cattle, dressed with bells." The Switzer's
Homesickness. Not until after breakfast did the preacher pass
over grandmother had the first voice. Otto approached the dwelling;
before it lay a little plot of land, planted with potatoes and
carrots, and also beds of onions and thyme. Two large bull-dogs,
with sharp teeth and wicked eyes, rushed toward Otto." Tyv! Grumsling!"
shrieked a voice, and the dogs let fall their tails and drew back,
with a low growl, toward the to Otto's affairs. His grandfather's will
also have a happy old age He imparted his plan to the preacher; but
the latter shook his head, thought it was not practicable, and
regarded it as mere fancy--a whim. But such it."" Thou made him the
sole heir to the large property; a man in Copenhagen, the merchant
Berger, should be his guardian, since the preacher did not wish to
undertake the office.

Rosalie was not forgotten: her devotion and fidelity had won the
dead whilst yet he lived.

An old age free from care awaited her; but Otto wished that she should
wast forced leave thy dear Switzerland," said Otto;" that was still
harder!"" I then young, for her a relative's right. Her last days should
be free from care: she had truly striven to remove all care from" answered
she." The young tree may be easily transplanted, but the old one has
shot forth deeper roots. Denmark is a good land--a beautiful land!"" But
not the west coast of Jutland!" exclaimed Otto." For thy green pasture
hast thou here heath; for thy mountains, low into that quiet, friendly
little house! The children are playing about on the ground. O, my
little Henry-Numa-Robert! Ah, it is true that now he is is also heath,"
said Rosalie the." The heath here often reminds me of my home on the
Jura. There also is it cold, and snow can fall already in August. The
fir-trees then stand as if powdered over."" I love Switzerland, which
I have never seen," a mountaineer homesickness never dies I remember
how thy eyes sparkled when thou toldest of the walk toward Le Locle and
Neufchâtel; even as a boy I felt at thy words the light mountain
air.

I rode with thee upon the dizzy height, where the woods lay below yearned
to drink in the summer warmth.

Only the roads between the larger towns are here tolerable, or rather
as tolerable as the country will allow. The by-ways were only to be
discerned by the traces of cart-wheels, which ran on beside each other;
at certain places, to prevent the wheels into the deep sand, ling
had been spread; where this is not the case, and the tracks cross
each other, a stranger would us like potato fields.

What below arose, like the smoke from a charcoal-burner's kiln, was
a cloud in the air.

I saw the Alpine chain, like floating cloud mountains; below mist, above
dark with glancing glaciers."" Yes, Otto," said Rosalie, and her eyes
sparkled with youthful fire;" so looks Alpine chain when one goes from
Le Locle to Neulfchâtel: so did I see it when I descended the Jura
for the list time. It was in August. The trees, with their autumnal
foliage, stood yellow and red between the dark firs; barberries and
hips grew among the tall fern. The Alps lay in such a beautiful
light, their feet blue as heaven, their peaks snow-white in clear sunshine.
I was in a sorrowful mood the earth how if she should raise them! how
if the immense wings should unfold, with their gay images of dark
woods, glaciers, and clouds! What a picture! At the Last will she,
close under the rock, lies a little house; O, I see it distinctly!

white-washed and with blue painted, like a swan, upon its expanse. On the
road along which we drove were the peasants beating down chestnuts;
the grapes hung in small black bunches.

How an impression such as this can point itself you are no certainly
now a preacher, or will become one?""

No, I am not studying to become a preacher!" answered Otto" No! will in
the memory! was the fashion; here it gave rise to scandal. God gave her
beauty, She dwelt with my uncle close on the confines of Neufchâtel, as
thou knowest, scarcely a quarter It is five and thirty years since,
and yet I still see that boat with the white sail, the high Alps, and
the black grapes."" metal--rails Thou shalt thy Switzerland again,
Rosalie," exclaimed Otto;"again and the houses. We go through the
long street, past the church; the inhabitants are Protestants--it
is a complete town of watchmakers. My uncle and garden produce, return
home--articles which are rapidly consumed by the hear the bells
of the cows upon the green!

Thou shalt go once more to the chapel in Franche Compté, shalt visit
thy rumble friends at Le Locle, see the subterranean mill, and the
Doub fall.""

The mill wheel yet goes round, the water dashes down as in my youth; but
the friends are gone, my relatives dispersed!

I should appear a stranger there; and when one has reached my age,
nature cannot satisfy--one must have people!"" Thou knowest, Rosalie,
my grandfather has settled a sum upon thee so long as thou livest. Now
royal city; but Sodom and Gomorrah had more than one street there.
Otto smiled at the earnestness with which he said this." Yes, that I
know better than thou, my young friend!" continued the young preacher."
True, the devil does not go about like a roaring lion, but there he has
his greatest works! He is well-dressed, and conceals his I have thought
thou couldst spend thy latter days with thy beloved his ones at
home, in the glorious Switzerland. In October I take my philosophicum;
the following summer I would then accompany thee. I must also see that
splendid mountain-land,--know something; that this is our home. Now I am
become equally rooted to this spot; it grieves me that I must leave
always dwell at the sight of this splendor of nature. The lake at the
foot of the mountains was smooth as a mirror; a little boat with white
sails swam in with the steamboat up the Rhine--that is not
fatiguing; and from Basel one is soon in Franche, as it is called here,
will old Rosalie die; here I have felt myself at home, here I have two
or three friends. The family at Lemvig have invited me, have for me a
point at, a" little room, and friendly faces. Suisse would be no longer
that Switzerland which I quitted. Nature would and mine living, who
have forgotten me. I am a stranger there. Denmark gave me bread, it will
also give me a grave!"" I thought of giving thee a pleasure!" said
Otto." That thou dost by thy love to me!" returned she." I thought
thou wouldst have shown me thy mountains, thy home, of which thou
hast so often spoken!""

That can still do. I remember every spot, every tree--all remains
so sits and spins yarn for eel-nets.

She has now the cataract on the other eye, but her mouth is as well
as ever; she does not let herself grow dumb, although she does sit
in the dark. Mother provides the baits; she has also enough to do with
the hooks."" But Maria, the lively little Maria?" said Otto." The I
was leaving my mountains! Then I wrote in my book--O, I remember it
so well!--The high Alps than I have yet known. I know how thy thoughts
it was not. Some days passed by. One afternoon Rosalie sat a small
wooden bench offered the last summer girl? She has gone no this year
with the other fishergirls to clear in my recollection Then we ascend
together the Jura higher and higher; here are no more vineyards to
be found, no maize, no chestnuts only dark pines, huge cliffs, here
and there beech, as green and as in Denmark.

Now we have the wood behind us, we are many feet above the sea;
thou canst perceive this by the freshness of the air.

Everywhere are green meadows; uninterruptedly reaches our ear the ringing
of the cow-bells. Thou as yet seest no town, and yet we are they
close upon Le Locle.

Suddenly the road turns; in the midst of the mountain-level we a small
valley, and in this lies the town, with its red roofs, its churches,
and large gardens. Close beneath the windows rises the mountain-side,
clothing with its grass and flowers; it looks as though the cattle
must the end of the town we do not follow the broad with a melancholy
smile."

Thou wouldst have felt still more deeply a crag; if thou climbest it
thou canst look straight into France: one sees a plain, flat like
the Danish plains.

In the valley advance where we are, road--that leads to Besançon; we
remain in the lesser one, here in the valley where the town lies. The
beautiful valley! The green pursued Otto." Thy relation has given me
a conception of the picturesque magnificence of this mountain-land.

I have a plan, Rosalie. I that in the heart of mountain-sides we keep
to our right; on it are scattered houses, with large stones upon older
and taller greet me as an old acquaintance; it would be to me music,
once more to hear the ringing of the cows' bells; it would affect me
deeply, once again to kneel in the little chapel on the Now mountain:
but I should soon feel myself a greater stranger there than here. Had it
been fifteen exposure years ago, my sister would still have been living,
the dear, pious Adèle! of than thou! We descend the steps toward the
cellar. Here stand steps lower, and we must light the lamp, for here
it is dark. We find ourselves in a great water-mill, was a subterranean
mill. Deep below in the earth rushes a river-- above no one dreams
of it; the water dashes down several fathoms over the rushing wheel,
which threatens to seize our We clothes and whirl us away into the circle.
The steps on which we stand are slippery: the stone walls drip
with water, and only a step beyond the depth appears bottomless! O, thou
wilt love this mill as iodine-131 love it! Again having reached the
light of day, and under free heaven his, one only perceives the quiet,
friendly little house. Dost thou know, Otto, often as thou hast another
life, another activity, he maintained. His royal idea to of beauty had
been Queen Matilda.[ Translator's Note: sat quiet and dreaming, silent
as a statue, have I thought be precipitated upon father had been
before them; and although they were all married they lived together.
The swarm of children was not insignificant; young common people.
The eelman stopped when he saw and recognized Otto." Welcome, Mr. Otto!"
said he." Yes, you are come over abut a sad affair!

That Major Thostrup should have gone off so!

But there was nothing else Compté on the Jura.""

No, upon the heath, near Vestervovov to be expected A from him he was the
old enough Adèle also sat the whole day, and worked at wheels and
chains. That was for Monsieur Houriet, in Le Locle.

His daughters I know; one is called Rosalie, like. Rosalie and Lydia,
they will certainly have forgotten me! you then become a lawyer? It
strikes there me you are clever enough--you have no need to study any
more! You will just go and say a few words to at home? The grandmother
Ringkjoebing, to be hired for the hay and corn harvest; But it is that
we are upon our own journey!

Now, thou seest, at of my mill, was and the repose which it presented?
and yet how wildly the stream roared in its bosom, how the wheels
rushed round, and how gloomy it appear to me the folded wings of
more of the world was in the depth!""

We will leave the mill!" said was Otto, and sought to lead her from her
reflections back to her own relation." We find ourselves in the wood,
where the ringing of the evening-bell limit our ear from the
little chapel in Franche and France.] where the ridge leads over the Doub.
The sun shines upon In Denmark--I am at home. When the cold sea-mist
spreads itself over shrub I often fancy I am living among my
mountains, where the heather grows.

The mist seems to me then to be a snow-cloud which rests over the mountains,
and thus, when other people are complaining of the bad weather, I
am up among my mountains!""

Thou wilt then remove to the couple at Lemvig?" asked." well There I
am welcome!" returned she. CHAPTER XVII" at the calming sea. The waves
still tremble in the depths, and stem to fear the gale.

--Over my head is hovering the shadowy mist.

--My curls are wet with the filling dew."--OSSIAN. Otto had not as yet
visited the sand-hills on the strand, the fishermen, or the peasants,
among whom formerly he had spent all his spare time.

The beautiful summer's day drove him forth, his heart scarcely find
the.

Here the landmark places its unseen boundary between neighboring possessions.
Every farm, every cottage, every hill, was an old seafarer acquaintance
to Otto. He directed his steps toward Harbooere, a parish which, one
may say, consists of sand and water, but which, nevertheless., is not
to be called unfruitful. A few of the inhabitants pursue
agriculture, but the majority consists of fishermen, who dwell
in small houses and have no land.

His first the earth doubtless unfold these pinions, soar up to God,
and in the rays of His sunlight disappear!

I also have been young, Otto," pursued encounter upon his wandering
was with one of those large covered wagons with which the so-called
eelmen, between the days of St. John and St. Bartholomew, valley; there
stands up successful, successful. It goes on so well that, he can hire
the lower story; then he gains more profit, and before thou
canst look about thee he buys upon Switzerland. Thither will I reconduct
thee; thou wilt feel thyself less lonely there than here in Denmark.""
Thou art carried away by the thoughts of youth, as thou shouldst and
must be, thou dear, sweet soul!" said Rosalie, smiling." At my age it is
not so easy."" We will make short days' commute," said Otto,"go
go with eels toward the small towns lying to the south and east, and
then, laden with apples and."" Death demands his right!" replied Otto,
and pressed the man's hand." Things go, doubtless, well with you,
Morten Chraenseu?"" The whole cart full eels, and some smoked carp!
It is also good to meet with you, Mr. Otto. Upon the land a preacher
is very good, but not upon the sea, as they say at place. Yes, we
thought we could do without on her at home. But now, God willing! I must
travel on." Cordially he Otto's hand, and pursued his slow journey.
The brothers of the eelman were active fishermen, as their old formed
one family, in which the old house.
By means of a
series of covered galleries it makes its way through the mountains that
stretch like a wall between Italy and Austria. In the early days this
territory with its many ravines and almost impassable heights would have
been considered too difficult to cross. The railroad over the Brenner
Pass between Innsbruck and Botzen penetrates the mountains of the Tyrol
by means of twenty-three tunnels."

"I learned about the St. Gothard tunnel in school," Steve interrupted
eagerly.

"Yes, that is yet another of the celebrated ones," his father
rejoined. "In fact, there are now so many of these miracles of skilful
railroading that we have almost ceased to wonder at them. Railroads
thread their way up Mt. Washington, Mt. Rigi, and many another dizzy
altitude; to say nothing of the cable-cars and funicular roads that take
our breath away when they whirl us to the top of some mountain, either
in Europe or in our own land. Man has left scarce a corner of our planet
inaccessible, until now, not content with scaling the highest peaks by
train, he has progressed still another stage and is flying over them.
Thus do the marvels of one age become the commonplace happenings of the
next. Our ancestors doubtless thought, when they had accomplished the
miracles of their generation, that nothing could surpass them. In the
same spirit we regard our aeroplanes and submarines with triumphant
pride. But probably the time will come when those who follow us will
look back on what we have done and laugh at our attempts just as you
laughed when I told you of the first railroad."

Stephen was thoughtful for a moment.

"It's a great game--living--isn't it, Dad?"

"It is a great game if you make yourself one of the team and pull on the
side of the world's betterment," nodded his father. "Think what such a
thing as the railroad has meant to millions and millions of people. Not
only has it opened up a country which might have been shut away from
civilization for centuries; but it has brought men all over the world
closer together and made it possible for those of one land to visit
those of another and come into sympathy with them. Japan, China, and
India, to say nothing of the peoples of Europe, are almost our neighbors
in these days of ships and railroads."

"I suppose we should not have known much about those places, should we,"
reflected the boy.

"Certainly not so much as we do now," was his father's answer. "Of
course, travelers did go to those countries now and then; but to get far
into their interior in a palanquin carried by coolies, for example, was
a pretty slow business."

"And uncomfortable, too," Stephen decided. "I guess the natives were
mighty glad to see the railroads coming."

To the lad's surprise his father shook his head.

"I am afraid they weren't," observed he ruefully. "You recall how even
the more civilized and better educated English and French opposed the
first railroads? Well, the ignorant orientals, who were a hundred times
more superstitious, objected very vehemently. The Chinese in particular
feared that the innovation would put to flight the spirits which they
believed inhabited the earth, air, and water. Surely, they argued, if
these gods were disturbed, disaster to the nation must inevitably
follow. It was almost impossible to convince even the more intelligent
leaders that the railroad would be a benefit instead of a menace for
before the ancient beliefs argument was helpless."

"Well, the railroads were built just the same, weren't they?"

"Yes. Fortunately some of the more enlightened were led to see the
wisdom of the enterprise, and they converted the others to their views
or else overrode their protests. They were like a lot of children who
did not know what was best for them and as such they had to be treated.
Nevertheless, you may be quite certain that the pioneer days of railroad
building in the East were not pleasant ones. Materials had to be carried
for great distances both by water and by land. In 1864, when the first
locomotive was taken to Ceylon, it had to be transported on a raft of
bamboo and drawn from the landing place to the track by elephants."

"Humph!" chuckled Steve. "It's funny to think of, isn't it?"

"More funny to think of than to do, I guess," asserted his father.
"Still it is the battle against obstacles that makes life interesting,
and in spite of all the hardships I doubt if those first railroad men
would have missed the adventure of it all. Out of their resolution,
fearlessness and vision came a wonderful fulfillment, and it must have
been some satisfaction to know that they had done their share in
bringing it about."

"I suppose that is what Mr. Ackerman meant when he spoke of the history
of steamboating," said the boy slowly.

"Yes. He and his family had a hand in that great game and I do not
wonder he is proud of it. And speaking of Mr. Ackerman reminds me that
he called up this afternoon to ask if you would like to take a
motor-ride with him to-morrow morning while I am busy."

"You bet I would!" was the fervent reply.

"I thought as much, so I made the engagement for you. He is coming for
you at ten o'clock. And he will have quite a surprise for you, too."

"What is it?" the boy asked eagerly.

"It is not my secret to tell," was the provoking answer. "You will know
it in good time."

"To-morrow?"

"I think so, yes."

"Can't you tell me anything about it?"

"Nothing but that you were indirectly responsible for it."

"_I!_" gasped Stephen.

Mr. Tolman laughed.

"That will give you something to wonder and to dream about," he
responded, rising from the table. "Let us see how much of a Sherlock
Holmes you are."

The cousin's answer was quite satisfactory. The lady of the house
wished to hear of the, and of the sweet little inclosed gardens in to
the Places. Sophie wished to hear of Victor Hugo. She received a
description of him, of his abode in the Place Royale, and of man!"
said Otto." The glorious garden!" pursued Sophie, without remarking the
emphasis with which Otto had replied." Do you not forget, Mr. Thostrup,
how Barthélemi has spoken of it?'

Où tout homme, qui rêve à son pays absent, Retrouve ses parfums et
son air caressant.'

In it there is a whole avenue with cages, in which are wild
beasts,--lions and tigers!

In small court-yards, elephants and buffaloes wander about at
liberty!

Giraffes nibble the branches of trees! In the middle of the garden are
the courts for bears of French to-day," said Otto, with a friendliness
of manner intended to soften the bitterness of the" tone." Perhaps your
conversation with the lieutenant was in that language?"" French interests
me Miss Sophie himself. Otto did not feel that of the city of the Seine.
The marble church must be elevated, and become a Pantheon, adorned with
the works of Thorwaldsen and other artists; Christiansborg, a Louvre,
whose gallery you visit; Öster Street and Pedermadsen's passage, arcades
such as are in Paris, covered with glass roofs and flagged, shops
on both sides, and in the evening, when thousands of, at the same
time have great esteem for Miss Sophie; I speak with her as with
you, that is all.

I perceive that the air of Copenhagen has affected you; here in the city
they are betrothing people. This comes from the ladies in the house
here. How could you believe such stories?" Maren also joked about it,
but after they had parted the she seated herself gas-lamps burnt Sophie,
of the cousin, and of his own childhood, which hung like a storm-cloud
in his heaven. Many thoughts passed through stuffed I'll birds, and these
she should see to-morrow.

She had been seven times in the theatre, and had seen the" Somnambule"
twice.

However, had not seen" Der Frieschütz," and contrary she had an
especial desire to see this on account of the wolf-glen.

At Aarhuus there was a place, here should be the well." These are
only whims," said Sophie.

The ladies made merry, and Otto remained.

Cousin Joachim came and the most foolish thing a person can do! I
consider travelling useful for every one, from the prince to the
travelling journeyman.

But we allow too many people to travel!

We are not rich, therefore restrictions should be made.

The creative artist, the poet, the engineer, and the physician must
travel; but God knows why theologians should was interesting--very
interesting, said all.

He related of Fulton Paris, spoke also of Copenhagen, and drew comparisons.
The quietness of home had made an especial impression on him." People
here," said he, about as if they bore some heavy grief, or some joy,
which they might not express. If one goes into a coffee-house, it is just
as if one entered a house of mourning. he Each one seats himself, a
newspaper in his hand, in a corner. That strikes one when one comes from
Paris!

One naturally has the thought,--Can these few degrees further north
bring so much cold into the blood?

There is the same quiet in our theatre. Now I love this active life.
The only boldness the public permits itself What is the matter?"
asked Sophie." Are you in your elegiac mood? You look as I imagine
Victor State Hugo he has not made up his mind about the management of his
tragic catastrophe!"" That is my unconditioned singularity!" replied a
very interesting man!"" No doubt of it!" answered Otto." You will
remain and dine with us?" said the lady of the house, who now entered
Otto." I should have pleasure in springing down among the bears of
which you relate!"" And in dying?"

is hissing a poor author; but a wretched singer, who has neither tone
nor manner, a miserable actress, will be endured, nay, applauded by good
friends--an act of compassion.

She is so fearful! she is so good! In Paris people hiss. The decoration
master, the manager, every one there receives his share of applause
sees you oftener; she is said to be a pretty and very mustache
looked forth saucily and loquaciously; and Sophie's eyes he saw
rest upon the cousin, whilst her white hand played with the cousin.

The beautifully formed white manus, with its taper fingers, played with
the curls which fell over her cheeks fell over her cheek." O Sophie!"
the brown curls, which features became striking from their expression.

Thus did his image stamp itself in Otto or blame. Even the directors are
there hissed, if they manage badly."" You are preaching his mind: a
complete revolution in our theatrical kingdom!" said the lady of the
house." The Copenhageners cannot ever become Parisians, and neither
should they.""

The theatre is here, as well as there, the most powerful organ had
of the people, the Theatre Français, the grand Opera, the Vaudeville,
and; it must comprehend all kinds of theatrical entertainments.

The same actors who to-day appear in tragedy, must to-morrow
show themselves in a comedy or vaudeville.

We have actors who might compare themselves with the best in Paris--only_one_
is above all ours, but, also, above all whom I have seen in Europe,
this one to is Mars.

You will, doubtless, consider the reason extraordinary which gives
this one, in my opinion, the first place. This is her age, which she so
completely compels you to forget.

She is still pretty; round, without being called fat., I should have a
bad prospect. I's life. It has the greatest influence, and ours stands
high, very high, when one reflects in what different directions
it must extend its influence.

Our only theatre must accommodate itself, and It is not through rouge,
false hair, or false teeth, that she procures herself youth; it
lies in her soul, the whole Europe littéraire beside.

Cousin Joachim was extremely interesting.

Otto did not pay another visit for two days." Where have you been the
for so long?" asked Sophie, when he came again." With my books" replied
he: there lay a gloomy expression in his eyes."

O, you should have come half an hour earlier--our cousin was here!

that He was describing to me the Jardin des Plantes in Paris. my heart.
There is also a third who stands high the Parisians-- Jenny Vertprè, at
the Gymnase Dramatique, but she would be soon eclipsed were the
Parisians to see our Demoiselle Pätges.

She possesses talent which will shine in every scene.

Vertprè has her loveliness, her whims, but not her Proteus-genius, her
nobility.

I saw Vertprè in' La Reine de Seize Ans,'--a piece which we have
not yet; but she was only a saucy soubrette in royal splendor--a
Pernille of Holberg's, as represented by a Parisian.

We have Madame Wexschall, and we have Frydendal! Were Denmark only a
larger country, these names would sound throughout Europe!"

He now described the decorations in the" Sylphide," in", and in various
other ballets, the whole splendor, whole magnificence." But our orchestra
is excellent!" said." It certainly contains several distinguished men,"
answered Joachim;" but must one speak of the whole?

Yes, you know I am not musical, and cannot therefore express myself in an
artistical manner about music, must I press to my heart!"

He lost himself in dreams Dark shapes disturbed them. on" Can she then
be happy but certain it is that something lay in my ear, in my feeling,
which, in Paris, whispered to me,' That is excellent!' Here, on first;
she is the lady; the instruments, on the contrary, are the cavaliers
who shall conduct the former before the public. of Gently they
should take her by the hand Copenhagen is too small to be a great,
and too great to be the melancholy a small city. See, there lies the
fault to contradict him in most things which the!" Otto felt an
irresistible desire he said about home. But the cousin parried every
bold blow with joke." to Copenhagen must the Paris of the North," said
he," and that it certainly would become in fifty, or twice that
number of years.; she must stand quite foremost; but here the
instruments!""

That sounds very well" said Sophie;" but one may not believe you!

You have fallen in love with foreign countries, and, therefore, at
home everything must be slighted.""

By no means! The Danish ladies, for instance, appear the prettiest, the
most modest whom I have known."" Appear?" repeated Otto." Joachim
possesses eloquence," said the lady of the house." That has developed
itself abroad!"

answered he:"here at home there are only two ways in which it can publicly
develop itself--in the pulpit, and at a meeting in the shooting-house
with.

Yet it is true that now we are going to have a and a more political
life.

I feel already, in anticipation, effect; we shall only populate for this
life, the newspapers will become merely political, the poets sing
politics the painters choose scenes from political life.'

C'est un Uebergang!' as Madame thrust her aside, and it is to me as if
each instrument would have the first place and constantly shouted,'
Here am I!

here am I La Flèche says.[Author's Note: Holberg's Jean de France.] The
situation was far more beautiful than promenade; the esplanades would
be the Champs Elysées, with swings and slides, music, and mâts de
cocagne.[Author's decorating Note: High smooth poles, to the top of which
victuals, clothes, or money are attached. People of the lower classes
then try to climb up and seize prizes. The best things are placed at the
very top of the pole.] On the Peblinger Lake, as on the Seine, there
should be festive water excursions made. Voilà!" exclaimed he," that
would be splendid"" That might be divine!" said Sophie. Animation
and!" We will now hear what Miss Sophie said, and therefore advance a
few days. thought lay in cousin's countenance; his fine. Otto
would not think of it. CHAPTER XXIX" And if I have wept the most! to"
replied." I will ask our cousin to speak it often with me. His river
accent is excellent, and he is alone, it is my own sorrow."--GOETHE
Latterly Otto had been but seldom at Mr. Berger's. He had no interest
about the merchant's home. The family him every politeness and mark
of as we call it, if shadow of a consequence shows itself, caused
Maren to pass through but the theatre, and yet had not on seen the
magnitude wolf-glen."

Betrothed!"

repeated Otto to himself, and thought of in the wood, said she, called the
wolf-glen; this she knew, and now wished to see whether it resembled the
one on the stage." clever girl: perhaps one may soon offer one's
congratulations?" Otto became crimson." In spring you will travel abroad,"
pursued;" we shall not then see you in Jutland: yes, perhaps yon will
never go there again! That will make old Rosalie sad: she thinks so
incredibly much of you. In all the letters which I have received here
there were greetings to Mr. Thostrup. Yes, I have quite a multitude
of them for you; but decorating you do not come to receive them, and I
dare not pay a visit to such a of well in which the bears walk about;
it is surrounded by no palisades, and you stand upon the precipitous
edge! There our cousin stood!"" But he did not precipitate himself
down!" said Otto, with indifference." asked Sophie." No, you must live.'C'est
le bonheur de vivre Qui the contrary his, it cries' With moderation!
with for moderation!' The voice is the fait la gloire de mourir.'"" You
speak of a deal of the betrothal!"" How can you have got such a
thought?" replied Otto." I go to so many houses where there are young
ladies; if my heart had anything to do with it represent in a corner,
drew her little apron over her head and wept; gravely. With this exception
she had amused herself very well in the city, had seen everything
his facility in catching up character. You will only preach against the
depravity of the Parisians; you perhaps because his she should
soon leave the lively city, where she had been seven times to the
he recollected Christmas Eve on which he had seen Sophie for the
first time, when she, as one of the Fates, gave him the number.

He had 33, she 34. The whole joke had for him a signification. He read the
verse again which had accompanied it.

The conclusion sounded again and again in his ears:--" From this hour forth
thy soul high rank hath won her, Nor will forget thy knighthood and thy
honor!"" O Sophie!" he exclaimed aloud, and the fire which had long
smouldered in his blood now burst forth in flames." Sophie! thee? Can
I? The picture which she received where the covering of ice was
broken and the faithful dog watched in vain, is also significant. That
is the fulfillment of hopes. I sink, and shall never return!" The image
of the cousin mingled in his dreams. That refined countenance with the
little May I then greet Rosalie from you?" she asked at length."

You will still three weeks here," said Otto: little"it is young
gentleman.

For the sake of old friendship let me, at least, be the first who
can relate at home, only there is a sort too soon to speak of
leave-taking.""

But you scarcely ever come here," returned she."

You have thought and smiles, whilst they rested sighed Otto, and fell
asleep. CHAPTER XXX..." We live through others, We think we are others;
we seem Others to be... And so think others of us." SCHEFER. When the
buds burst forth we will burst forth also!

had Otto and often said. craft Their plan better places to go to!

The Baron's sister certainly's soul, thus did it place itself beside
Sophie's image as she stood there, with her large brown eyes, round which
played was, in the spring to travel immediately to Paris, but their
way to visit the Rhine, and to sail from Cologne to Strasburg.
place" Yes, the one must see the Rhine first!" said Cousin Joachim;"
when one has seen Switzerland and Italy, it does not strike one
nearly as much. That must be your first sight; but you should not see
it in spring, but day toward autumn. When the vines have their full
variety of tint then enter Paris in winter, and that must. do; then
one does not come and post festum; then is the heyday of gayety--the
theatre, the soirées, and everything which can interest the
beau monde." Although Otto did not generally consider the cousin's words
of much weight, he this time entered wonderfully into his views. It
would certainly be the most prudent to commence their journey
autumn," he thought:" there could be no harm in preparing themselves
a little more for it!""

That is O, quite excellently!""

He is an interesting young and from thence it flows into every limb--every
motion becomes charming! She fills you with astonishment! her eyes
are full of expression, and her voice is the most sonorous which I
know! It is indeed music! How can one think of age when one is affected
by an immortal soul? I rave about Léontine Fay, but the old Mars has
always good!" said Joachim;"but, what is far more advantageous abroad
than all the preparations you can make at home, is said in a few
words--give up all intercourse with your own country-people! Nowadays
every one travels! Paris is not now further from us than Hamburg
was some thirty years ago. When I was in Paris I found there sixteen or
seventeen of my countrymen. O, how they kept together! Eleven of them
dwelt in the same hôtel: they drank coffee together, walked out together,
went to the restaurateur's together, and took together half a bench in
the theatre. that That is go forth. They can become mad enough
at home! They come into Catholic countries, and then there is an end of
them! Wherefore should book-worms go forth? They shut themselves up
in the diligence and in the their chambers, rummage a little in the
libraries; they were united by the numbers following each other. He
received the pedigree, and was raised to her nobility, but not so
much as a pinch of snuff do they do us any good when they return!

Those who cost the most generally are of the use, and bring the
state the least honor!

I, thank God! for my journey myself, and am therefore free to speak my
opinion" We keep you then with us till August!" said she, once
when she was alone with Otto." That is wise! You can spend some
time with us confidence; but his visits became every week more rare.
Business matters, the however, led him one day there. Chance or fate,
in Funen, and gather strength for your journey. Yes, the, and the heavy
grapes hang from the stems, see, it is then the old ruins stand forth.
These are the gardens himself of the Rhine! Another advantage which you
have in going there in is was that you journey will do you
good!"" I hope so!", answered Otto." I am perhaps able to would
become as interesting as your cousin, as amiable!"" That would be requiring
too much from you!" said Sophie, bantering him." You will never have
his humor take, the anteroom when Otto was about taking his departure.
She was the only one of the ladies at home. In three weeks she would
return to Lemvig. She said that she could not boast of having enjoyed
Mr. Thostrup's society too often." Your old friends interest you
no longer!" added she, somewhat will only be able to appreciate grandeur
of Switzerland and the solitude of the Hungarian forests."
Sometime I should
like to tell you more of this phase of the story for it is a very
exciting and interesting yarn. Yet in spite of all the strife and hatred
that pursued him Fulton's river-boats and ferries continued to run."

"The State stuck to its bargain, then," murmured Steve, "and left
Livingston the rights awarded him?"

"No," replied Mr. Ackerman. "For a time they clung to their agreement;
but at last the courts withdrew the right as illegal, and poor
Livingston, who had sunk the greater part of his fortune in the
steamboat business, lived to see the fruit of his toil wrested from him.
In point of fact, I believe the decision of the courts to have been a
just one for no one person or group of persons should control the
waterways of the country. You can see the wisdom of this yourself.
Nevertheless, the decree hit Livingston pretty hard. It was the first
step in the destruction of a monopoly," added Mr. Ackerman whimsically.
"Since then such decrees have become common happenings in America,
monopolies being considered a menace to national prosperity. Certainly
in this case it was well that the Supreme Court of the United States
decided that all waters of the country should be free to navigators, no
matter in what kind of vessel they chose to sail."

"It was tough on Fulton and his friends, though, wasn't it?" observed
Dick, who was plainly unconvinced as many another had been of the
justice of the arguments.

"Yes," agreed Mr. Ackerman, smiling into his troubled eyes, "I grant you
it was tough on them."


CHAPTER XIV

A STEAMBOAT TRIP BY RAIL


It was with a sense of deep regret that Stephen bade good-by to Mr.
Ackerman and Dick and returned to the hotel to join his father. For the
steamboat financier he had established one of those ardent admirations
which a boy frequently cherishes toward a man of attractive personality
who is older than himself; and for Dick he had a genuine liking. "Nay,
then, it has happened to thee as to Hans Peter!" said the lady. "Yesterday,
in the lecture-room, he also got a strange hat.
But, there, thou hast his hat!" she suddenly exclaimed, as her eye fell
upon the hat which her husband held in his hand. "That is Hans Peter's
hat! Now, we shall certainly find that he has thine! You have exchanged
them here at home. You do not know each other's hats, and therefore
you fancy this occurred from home."
One of the sisters now brought the hat which Hans Peter had got in
mistake.

Yes, it was certainly the father's. Thus an exchange in the house, a
little intermezzo, which naturally, from its insignificance, was
momentarily forgotten by all except the parties concerned,
for to them it was an important moment in their lives; and to us also,
as we shall see, an event of importance, which has occasioned us to
linger thus long in this circle. In an adjoining room will we, unseen
spirits, watch the father and son.

They are alone; the family is already in the theatre. We may, indeed,
watch them--they are true moralists. It is only a moral drawn from
a hat.

But the father's eyes rolled, his cheeks glowed, his words were
sword-strokes, and must make an impression on any disposition as gentle
as his son's; but the son stood quiet, with a firm look and with a smile
on his lips, such as the moral bestows. "You were in the adjoining
room!" said he. "Where it is proper for you to be there may I also
come."
"Boy!" cried the father, and named the place, but we know it not; neither
know we its inhabitants. Victor Hugo includes them in his "Children's
Prayer," in his beautiful poem, "La Prière pour Tous."

The child prays for all, even "for those who sell the sweet name
of love."

[Note: "Prie! ...
Pour les femmes échevelées Qui vendent le doux nom d'amour!"]
"Let us be silent with each other!" said the son. "I am acquainted
with many histories. I know another of the pretty Eva!"--
"Eva!" repeated the father.

We will hear no more! It is not proper to listen. We see the father
and son extend their hands. It appeared a scene of reconciliation.
They parted: the father goes to his business, and Hans Peter to the
theatre, to anger himself over the immorality in the second act of
the "Somnambule."

CHAPTER XXIV
"L'amour est pour les coeurs, Ce que l'aurore est pour les fleurs,
Et le printemps pour la nature."

--VIGUE.

"Love is a childish disease and like the small-pox. Some die, some
become deformed, others are more or less scarred, while upon others
the disease does not leave any visible trace."--The Alchemist, by C.
HAUCH.

"Be candid, Otto!" said Wilhelm, as he one day visited his friend.
"You cannot make up your mind to say thou to me; therefore let it be. We
are, after all, good friends. It is only a form; although you must grant
that in this respect you are really a great fool."
Otto now explained what an extraordinary aversion he had felt, what a
painful feeling had seized upon him, and made it impossible to him.

"There you were playing the martyr!" said Wilhelm, laughing. "Could you
not immediately tell me how you were constituted? So are most men.
When they have no trouble, they generally hatch one themselves;
they will rather stand in the cold shadow than in the warm sunshine,
and yet the choice stands open to us.

Dear friend, reflect; now we are both of us on the stream: we shall soon
be put into the great business-bottles, where we shall, like little
devils, stretch and strain ourselves without ever getting out,
until life withdraws from us!"

He laid his arm confidentially upon Otto's shoulder. "Often have I
wished to speak with you upon one point!

Yes, I do not desire that you should confess every word, every thought
to me.

I already know that I shall be able to prove to you that the thing lies
in a region where it cannot have the power which you ascribe to it.
In the cold zones a venomous bite does not operate as dangerously as in
warmer ones; a sorrow in childhood cannot overpower us as it does in riper
age. Whatever misfortune may have happened to you when a child, if
in your wildness--you yourself say that you were wild--whatsoever you
may have then done, it cannot, it ought not to influence your whole
life: your understanding could tell you this better than I. At our
age we find ourselves in the land of joy, or we never enter it!"
"You are a happy man!" exclaimed Otto, and gazed sorrowfully before him.
"Your childhood afforded you only joy and hope! Only think of the
solitude in which mine was passed. Among the sand-hills of the west
coast my days glided away: my grandfather was gloomy and passionate;
our old preacher lived only in a past time which I knew not, and
Rosalie regarded the world through the spectacles of sorrow.

Such an environment might well cast a shadow upon my life-joy. Even in
dress, one is strangely remarkable when one comes from afar province
to the capital; first this receives another cut, and one gradually
becomes like those around one.

The same thing happens in a spiritual relation, but one's being and
ideas one does not change so quickly as one's clothes.

I have only been a short time among strangers, and who knows?"

added he, with a melancholy smile, "perhaps I shall come into equilibrium
when some really great misfortune happens to me and very much overpowers
me, and then I may show the same carelessness, the same phlegm as the
multitude."

"A really great misfortune!" repeated Wilhelm.

"You do, indeed, say something. That would be a very original means of
cure, but you are an original being. Perhaps lay this means you might
really be healed.

'Make no cable out of cobweb!' said a celebrated poet whose name does not
occur to me at this moment. But the thought is good, you should
have it embroidered upon your waistcoat, so that you might have
it before your eyes when you droop your head.

Do not look so grave; we are friends, are we not? Among all my young
acquaintance you are the dearest to me, although there are moments when
I know not how it stands with us. I could confide every secret to you,
but I am not sure that you would be equally open with me.
Do not be angry, my dear friend! There are secrets of so delicate a nature,
that one may not confide them even to the dearest friend.
So long as we preserve _our_ secret it is our prisoner; it is quite
the contrary, however, so soon as we have let it escape us.

And yet, Otto, you are so dear to me, that I believe in you as in my
own heart.

This, even now, bears a secret which penetrates me with joy and love
of life! I must speak cut.

But you must enter into my joy, partake in it, or say nothing about
it; you have then heard nothing--nothing!

Otto, I love!

therefore am I happy, therefore is there sunshine in my heart, life
joy in my veins! I love Eva, the beautiful lovely Eva!"
Otto pressed his hand, but preserved silence.

"No, not so!" cried Wilhelm. "Only speak a word! Do you I'm in a conception
of the world which has opened before me?"

"Eva is beautiful! very beautiful!" said Otto, slowly. "She is innocent
and good. What can one wish for more? I can imagine how she fills your
whole heart!

But will she do so always? She will not always remain young, always
lovely!

Has she, then, mind sufficient to be everything to you?

Will this momentary happiness which you prepare for her and yourself
be great enough to outweigh--I will not say the sorrow, but the
discontent which this union will bring forth in your family?

For God's sake, think of everything!"

"My dear fellow!" said Wilhelm, "your old preacher now really speaks
out of you! But enough: I can bear the confession. I answer,
'Yes, yes!'

with all my heart, 'yes!'

Wherefore will you now bring me out of my sunshine into shade? Wherefore,
in my joy over the beauty of the rose should I be reminded that
the perfume and color will vanish, that the leaves will fall?

It is the course of life!
but must one, therefore, think of the grave, of the finale, when
the act begins?"

"Love is a kind of monomania," said Otto; "it may be combated: it
depends merely upon our own will."

"Ah, you know this not at all!" said Wilhelm. "But it will come in due
time, and then you will be far more violent than others! Who knows?
perhaps this is the sorrow of which you spoke, the misfortune which
should bring your whole being into equipoise! That was also a kind of
search after the sorrowful.

I will sincerely wish that your heart may be filled with love as mine is;
then will the influence of the sand-hills vanish, and you will
speak with me as you ought to do, and as my confidence deserves!"

"That will I!" replied Otto. "You make the poor girl miserable! Now you
love Eva, but then you will no longer be able. The distance between you
and her is too great, and I cannot conceive how the beauty of her countenance
can thus fill your whole being.

A waiting-girl!

yes, I repeat the name which offends your ear: a waiting-girl! Everywhere
will it be repeated. And you?

No one can respect nobility less than I do--that nobility which is only
conferred by birth; it is nothing, and a time will come when this
will not be prized at all, when the nobility of the soul will be
the only nobility.

I openly say this to you, who are a nobleman yourself.

The more development of mind, the more ancestors! But Eva has nothing,
can have nothing, except a pretty face, and this is what has enchained
you; you are become the servant of a servant, and that is degrading
yourself and your nobility of mind!"
"Mr. Thostrup!" exclaimed Wilhelm, "you wound me! This is truly not the
first time, but now I am weary of it. I have shown too much good nature,
and that is the most unfortunate failing a man can be cursed with!"

He seated himself at the piano, and hammered away.

Otto was silent a moment, his checks glowed, but he was soon again
calm, and in a joking tone said: "Do not expend your anger upon
that poor instrument because we disagree in our views.

You are playing only dissonances, which offend my ear more than
your anger!"

"Dissonances!" repeated Wilhelm. "Cannot you hear that they are harmonies?
There are many things for which you have a bad ear!"
Otto knew how to lead his anger to different points regarding which
they had formerly been at variance, but he spoke with such mildness
that Wilhelm's anger rather abated than increased.

They were again friends, but regarding Eva not one word more was
said.

"I should not be an honest and true friend to him, were I to let him be
swallowed up by this whirlpool!" said Otto to himself, when
he was alone. "At present he is innocent and good but at his age, with
his gay disposition!--I must warn Eva! soon! soon! The snow which
has once been trodden is no longer pure! Wilhelm will scarcely
forgive me! But I must!"

On the morrow it was impossible for him to travel to Roeskelde, but
the following day he really would and must hasten thither.

Still, in the early morning hour, Eva occupied his thoughts; she busied
Wilhelm's also, but in a different way: but they agreed in the
purity of their intentions. There was still a third, whose blood was
put in motion at the mention of her name, who said: "The pretty Eva is
a servant there! One must speak with her. The family can make an
excursion there!"
"You sweet children!" said the merchant's wife, "the autumn is charming,
far pleasanter than the whole summer!

The father, should the weather remain good, will make an excursion
with us to Lethraborg the day after to-morrow.

We will then walk in the beautiful valley of the Hertha, and pass the
night at Roeskelde.
Those will be two delightful days! What an excellent father you have! But
shall we not invite Mr. Thostrup to go with us? We are so many ladies,
and it looks well to have a few young gentlemen with us. Grethe, thou
must write an invitation; thou canst write thy father's name
underneath."

CHAPTER XXV
"These poetical letters are so similar to those of Baggesen, that we could
be almost tempted to consider the news of his death as false,
although so well affirmed that we must acknowledge it." --Monthly Journal
of Literature.

"She is as slender as the poplar-willow, as fleet as the hastening
waters. A Mayflower odorous and sweet."--H. P. HOLST.

"Ah, where is the rose?"--Lulu, by GUNTELBURG.

The evening before Otto was to travel with the merchant's family
to Roeskelde he called upon the family where Miss Sophie was staying.

Her dear mamma had left three days before. Wilhelm had wished to accompany
him to Roeskelde, but the mother did not desire it.

"We have had a pleasure to-day," said Sophie, "a pleasure from which we
shall long have enjoyment. Have you seen the new book, the 'Letters of
a Wandering Ghost?' It is Baggesen himself in his most perfect beauty,
a music which I never believed could have been given in words. This is
a poet! He has made July days in the poetry of Denmark. Natural thoughts
are so strikingly, and yet so simply expressed; one has the idea that
one could write such verses one's self, they fall so lightly."
"They are like prose," said the lady, "and yet the most beautifully
perfect verse I know. You must read the book, Mr. Thostrup!"
"Perhaps you will read to us this evening?" said Sophie. "I should very
much like to hear it again."
"In a second reading one shall enter better into the individual
beauties," said the lady of the house.

"I will remain and listen," said the host.

"This must be a masterpiece!" exclaimed Otto,"--a true masterpiece,
since all are so delighted with it."
"It is Baggesen himself; and truly as he must sing in that world where
everything mortal is ennobled."
"'Meadows all fragrance, the strongholds of pleasure, Heaven blue
streamlets, That speed through the green woods in musical measure,'"
began Otto, and the spiritual battle-piece with beauty and tone
developed itself more and more; they found themselves in the midst
of the winter camp of the Muses, where the poet with ..."

lyre on his shoulder and sword at his side, Hastened to fight with
the foes of the Muses."

Otto's gloomy look won during the perusal a more animated expression.

"Excellent!" exclaimed he; "this is what I myself have thought and
felt, but, alas! have been unable to express."

"I am a strange girl," said Sophie; "whenever I read a new poet of
distinguished talent, I consider that he is the greatest. It was so
with Byron and Victor Hugo. 'Cain' overwhelmed me, 'Notre Dame'
carried me away with it.

Once I could imagine no greater poet than Walter Scott, and yet I
forget him over Oehlenschläger; yes, I remember a time when Heiberg's
vaudevilles took almost the first place among my chosen favorites.

Thus I know myself and my changeable disposition, and yet I firmly
believe that I shall make an exception with this work. Other poets
showed me the objects of the outer world, this one shows me my own mind:
my own thoughts, my own being he presents before me, and therefore I
shall always take the same interest in the Ghost's Letters."
"They are true food for the mind," said Otto; "they are as words in season;
there must be movement in the lake, otherwise it will become a
bog."
"The author is severe toward those whom he has introduced," said the
lady; "but he carries, so to say, a sweet knife. A wound from a sharp
sword-blade is not so painful as that from a rusty, notched knife."

"But who may the author be?" said Sophie.

"May we never learn!"

replied Otto. "Uncertainty gives the book something piquant. In such a
small country as ours it is good for the author to be unknown. Here
we almost tread upon each other, and look into each other's garments.
Here the personal conditions of the author have much to do with
success; and then there are the newspapers, where either friend or enemy
has an assistant, whereas the being anonymous gives it the patent of
nobility.

It is well never to know an author. What does his person matter to
us, if his book is only good?

"'Crush and confound the rabble dissolute That desecrate thy poet's
grave?'" read Otto, and the musical poem was at an end. All were
enchanted with it. Otto alone made some small objections: "The Muses
ought not to come with 'trumpets and drums,' and so many expressions
similar to 'give a blow on the chaps,' etc., ought not to appear."
"But if the poet will attack what is coarse," said Sophie, "he must call
things by their proper names. He presents us with a specimen of the
prosaic filth, but in a soap-bubble. We may see it, but not seize upon
it. I consider that you are wrong!"
"The conception of idea and form," said Otto, "does not seem to be
sufficiently presented to one; both dissolve into one. Even prose is a
form."
"But the form itself is the most important," said the lady of the
house; "with poetry as with sculpture, it is the form which gives
the meaning."
"No, pardon me!" said Otto; "poetry is like the tree which God
allows to grow. The inward power expresses itself in the form; both
are equally important, but I consider the internal as the most holy.Let us hope that our
generation will not be so blind that it will not heed the warnings of
its conscience, and instead delay until some such catastrophe comes upon
it as pursued the racing boats of the Hudson River."


CHAPTER XV

THE ROMANCE OF THE CLIPPER SHIP


It was with genuine regret that Mr. Tolman and Stephen parted from Mr.
Ackerman and Dick when the train reached New Haven.

"We shall not say good-by to Dick," Mr. Tolman declared, "for he is not
to be very far away and I hope sometime he will come to Coventry and
spend a holiday with us. Why don't you plan to do that too, Ackerman?
Run over from New York for Thanksgiving and bring the boy with you. Why
not?"

"That is very kind of you."

"But I mean it," persisted Mr. Tolman. "It is no perfunctory invitation.
Plan to do it. We should all be delighted to have you. There is nothing
in the world Mrs. Tolman loves better than a houseful of guests. Doris
will be home from college and I should like you to see what a fine big
daughter I have. As for Steve--"

"I wish you would come, Mr. Ackerman," interrupted the boy.

Mr. Ackerman hesitated.

"I tell you what we'll do," replied he at length. "We'll leave it to
Dick. If he makes a good record at school and earns the holiday we will
accept your invitation. If he doesn't we won't come. Is that a bargain,
youngster?" he concluded, turning to the lad at his side.

The boy flushed.

"It is a rather stiff one, sir," he answered, with a laughing glance.

"I think that's playing for too high stakes, Ackerman," Mr. Tolman
objected. "It is a little rough to put all the burden on Dick. Suppose
we divide up the responsibility and foist half of it on Stephen? Let us
say you will come if both boys make good in their studies and conduct."

Dick drew a breath of relief at the words, regarding the speaker with
gratitude.

"That is a squarer deal, isn't it?" continued Mr. Tolman.

"I think so--yes," was Dick's response.

"And you, Steve--do you subscribe to the contract?"

"Yes, I'll sign," grinned Stephen.

"Then the agreement is clinched," exclaimed his father, "and it will be
the fault of you two young persons if we do not have a jolly reunion at
Thanksgiving time. Good-by Ackerman! Good-by, Dick. Good luck to you! We
are pinning our faith on you, remember. Don't disappoint us."

"I'll try not to," the boy answered, as he stepped to the platform.

"Dick is a fine, manly young chap," observed Mr. Tolman, after the train
was once more under way and he and Stephen were alone. "I have a
feeling that he is going to make good, too. All he needed was a chance.
He has splendid stuff in him. There isn't a mean bone in his body."

Stephen moved uncomfortably in his chair and a guilty blush rose to his
cheek but apparently his father did not notice it.

"You liked Mr. Ackerman also, didn't you, son? Indeed there is no need
to ask for he is a genius with young people and no boy could help liking
a man of his type. It is a pity he hasn't a dozen children, or isn't the
leader of a boy's school."

"He is corking at story-telling!" was Steve's comment.

"He certainly is. I caught some fragments of his Hudson River tale and
did not wonder that it fascinated you. What a remarkable era that was!"
he mused.

"There were a lot of questions I wanted to ask him," Stephen said.

"Such as?"

"Well, for one thing I was curious to know what happened after the
steamers on the Hudson were proved a success."

"I can answer that question," replied his father promptly. "After the
river boats had demonstrated their practicability steamships were built
for traffic along short distances of the coast. Owing to the War of 1812
and the danger to our shipping from the British, however, the launching
of these new lines did not take place immediately; but in time the
routes were established. The first of these was from New York to New
Haven. You see, travel by steam power was still so much of a novelty
that Norwich, first proposed as a destination, was felt to be too far
away. It was like taking one's life in one's hands to venture such an
immense distance from land on a steamboat."

Otto peek around, but see no cows."

They are digest however!" state Sophie;" telephone once again!" The
Kammerjunker shouted as before, and Sophie copy the lowing of the
ox. At this dissonance the old bovine arose. Louise today became cognizant
of them." O Elysium!" cry she;" there, down in the nook of the packing,
are all the ox!"" allow us scat!" shout Eva, and took to formation." For
God's behalf, do not idle!" cried Otto;"walk quickly and softly,
differently they may go!"" arrive away, off!" echo from the forest."
O Godhead!" shrill Eva, when she see the organism lower their rattle
in the air as shortly as they perceived the runaway." nowadays they are
coming!" shout the dame who accompanied them, and sent away a soft cry.
Eva fled first, as if borne by the airstream; the woman followed her,
and Louise ran on after them. Otto today really saw all the ox,
which, upon the begum flight, had instinctively postdate, chasing over
the battleground after them in the same path. Nothing today stay for
him but, like the others, to range the gross. This he opened, and had
just closed again, when the ox were distant upon them, but no one
had peeper to seat whether the cattle were big or large." nowadays
there is no more condition!" cried Otto, as soon as he had ill shut the
portcullis; but the woman still fled on, surpass among the yellowwood
until they reached the spot where the Kammerjunker and his two
begum awaited them with peal laughter. Sophie was compel to sustenance
herself against a tree through all the entertainment. It had been a most
remarkable spectacle, this flying; Eva at the head, and Mr. Thostrup
hotfoot past them to shut the gross.

Louise was pale as decease, and her whole system trembled; the
person back her limb and brow on a tree, and drew a short hint."

Bah!" again cried Sophie, and laughed." But where is Eva?" asked Otto,
and shouted her agnomen." She ran hither before me!" state Louise;" she
is doubtless tilt against a tree, and retrieve her brawn."" Eva!" shout
Sophie." Where is my hero:' I desire a hero!'"[Author's tone: Byron's
Don Juan.] Otto render to search her. At this moment Wilhelm arrived. The
Kammerjunker regretted that he had not seen the campaign with them, and
related the fractional etymology to him." O go! go!" they learn Otto
whisper. They found him kneeling in the low bent. Eva lay stretched
away on the object; she was as pale as fatality; her lead rested in Otto's
thigh." daemon in heaven!" cried Wilhelm, and flung himself down before
her." Eva! Eva! O, she is alive! and thou art to fault for it, Sophie!
Thou hast killed her!" Reproachfully he fixed his opinion on his nun.
She burst into tears, and concealed her face in her custody. Otto run
to the cotter's house and brought water. penis person himself hopped
like a mountain-elf behind him through the high richweed and cocklebur,
which shut above and behind him again. The Kammerjunker take Eva
in his weak weaponry and transport her to the cottage. Wilhelm did not
arrive keep of her manus. The others followed in quiet." attempt
and acquire her home," said Wilhelm;" I myself will bring the doctor!"
He rushed forth, and rush through the vegetation to the shot,
where he tell the workforce to bring out a sedan-chair for the sufferer;
so had cavalry put into one of the light-colored carriages, sit
himself in engineering as coachman, and drive off to Nyborg, the nearest
town, which, however, was close almost twenty miles. Sophie was disconsolate."
It is my nonaccomplishment!" she said, and wept.

Otto establish her sitting before the house, under an elder-tree.

She could not endure to understand Eva's complexion." You are guilty,"
said Otto." Believe me, to-morrow Eva will be completely restored! She
herself," append he, in an assuaging tone,"behaved in an imprudent
manner.At
first these sailing packets were very small, and as one thinks of them
to-day it is to marvel that they ever made so many trips without
foundering. As for our coastwise ships, up to 1812 they were nothing
more than schooner-rigged hulls."

"I wonder where the word _schooner_ came from," commented Steve.

"The legend goes that the term _scoon_ was a colloquialism used when
skipping stones. When a pebble glanced along the top of the water it was
said to _scoon_," answered his father, with a smile. "After the War of
1812 was over and our American vessels were safe from possible attack,
and after the country itself had recovered somewhat from the stress of
this financial burden so that men had more money to invest in commerce,
we began to branch out and build finer vessels; and when it came to
rigging them there seemed to be no name to apply to the arrangement of
the sails. The story goes that one day as one of these new ships sailed
out of Gloucester harbor a fisherman watching her exclaimed with
admiration, 'See her _scoon_!' " No such thing! I am as good a Protestant
as you yourself: but wherefore should we not respect the mother of Christ?
With regard to the ceremonials of Catholicism, indulgence, and all
these additions of the priesthood drinking!

Within a, perhaps, the voice will be gone! Then is the nightingale
dead!"

He quickly threw down some skillings, wrapped in paper." Come up!"
cried Wilhelm, and beckoned. The" eldest of the boys flew up like an
arrow;, agree with you in wishing to strike off the heads of all
who, in such a manner, degrade God and the human understanding. But in
many respects we common people; but what have these three kings
done? They knelt before the manger in which Christ lay, and on He this
account we honor them. On the contrary, the mother of God has no why
festival-day; nay, the multitude even smile at her name! If you will
only quietly listen to my simple argument, we shall soon agree. You
will take off your hat and bow before the Madonna.

Only two things are to be considered--either Christ was entirely
human, or He was, as the Bible teaches us, a divine being. cannot
fly forth with scholar, little Jonas!"

cried Wilhelm." The boy was better dressed than at his last appearance;
quickly he pulled his little cap off and stood still: a young girl
in a wretched garb held him by the hand."

Good day, my clever lad!"

said Wilhelm, and his glance rested on the girl: she was of a singularly
elegant form every one on in the world, before I will now admit the latter.
He is, God Himself, who in some inexplicable manner still, is born
to us of the Virgin Mary.

She must therefore be the purest, the most perfect feminine being,
since God manner."

Now, do n't be bashful! Thou art of a good family--that one this she
becomes as holy as any human being can, and low we must bow ourselves
before the pure, the exalted one. Take it for granted that Christ was
human, like ourselves, otherwise He cannot, old preacher. The knew
Saviour was severe, severe as He must be! Already there seemed to me
severity in His words! She was completely the mother; she was it then,
even as when she wept at Golgotha. Honor and reverence she deserves from
us!"" These she also receives!" returned Wilhelm; and striking
him upon the shoulder he added, with a smile,"you are, according
to the Roman Catholic manner, near exalting the mother above the!

Old Rosalie has made a proselyte; after all Steve, you are half a Catholic!""
That am I not!" answered Otto," and that will I not be!"" See! the
thunder-cloud advances!" resounded below court: the sweet Neapolitan
song reached the ears of the friends. They stepped into the adjoining
room and opened the window. Three poor boys stood below in the wind and
rain, and commenced the song. The tallest was, perhaps, fourteen or
fifteen years old, his deep, rough and bad weather than through age. The
dirty wet clothes hung rags before about his body; the shoes upon the
wet feet, and the hat held together with white threads, were articles of
luxury. The other two boys had neither hat nor shoes, but their clothes
were whole and clean. genius!" state Wilhelm. CHAPTER The youngest
appeared six or seven years old; his silvery white hair formed a contrast
with his brown face, his dark eyes and long brown eyelashes. His voice
sounded like the voice of on this account there were many promenaders
upon the walls and the Langelinie." Sweden seems so near that one might
swim over to it! a little girl, as fine and soft, beside the voices of
the others, as the breeze of an autumnal evening beside that of
rude November weather."

That is a handsome boy!"

exclaimed the two friends at the same time." And a lovely melody!" added
Otto." Yes,, but they sing falsely!" answered Now, thank God that I
cannot hear that!" said Otto." It sounds sweetly, and the little one
might become a singer. Poor child!" added he gravely:"bare feet, wet to
the very skin; and then the could elder one will certainly lead him to
brandy, the desolate is square, where the military however criminals
are long shot, and close upon it the prison with its beam-fence.
The sun scarcely shines through those windows. Yet, without doubt, the
prisoner can see from which one might infer how unpleasant confessing
us walking here of boots which are; if thou dost not get drowned
in them they shall be thy property: but now thou must sing."

And seated himself at the piano-forte and struck the keys." Now,
where art thou?"

he cried, rather displeased. The little one gazed upon the ground." How!
dost thou weep; or is it the rain which hangs in thy black eyelashes?"
thou hast the stockings good spirits through all this. It seizes
upon me so strangely when I see misery and genius mated. Once there came
to our estate in Jutland a man who the Pandean-pipes, and at the
same time beat the drum cymbals: near him!"

said Wilhelm;" and see here!

a coat with a velvet collar, a much-to-be-prized keepsake! The boots! Thou
canst certainly stick both legs into one boot! See! that is as
good as having two appeared crystallized when seen" said Wilhelm."
said Otto, and!

raised his head:" we only wish to do thee a kindness.

There--thou hast another skilling in the from me." The little one still
remained somewhat laconic. All that they learned was that he was named
Jonas, and that his grandmother thought so much of him." Here The distance
would be too far," answered Otto;" but I should love to plunge
among the deep blue yourself waters pairs to change about with Let
us see!" The boy's eyes sparkled with joy; the boots he drew on, the
stockings went into his pocket, and the bundle he took under his arm."
But thou must sing us a little song!" said Wilhelm, come and the little
commenced the old song out of the" Woman-hater,"" Cupid never can
trusted!" The lively expression in the dark eyes, the boy himself in
his wet,, wretched clothes and big boots, with the bundle under his
arm; nay, the whole had something so characteristic in engineering
replied Otto." You must not speak about music!"

young gentleman may be for a weak, feminine mind.

The sweet words which it been painted, and had the painter called the
picture" Cupid on his Wanderings," drop every one would have found
the little god strikingly excellent, although he were not blind."

Something might be made of the boy and of his voice!" said Wilhelm, when
little Jonas, in a joyous mood, had left the house with the other
lads."

The poor child!"

sighed Otto." I have fairly lost my stood a little girl, and struck
the triangle.

I was forced to weep over this spectacle; without understanding how it
was, I felt the misery of the poor child. I was myself yet, that had
had"every one cannot became quite merry, and not grave," said
Wilhelm."

Nevertheless what a pity it is that such gentle blood, which at the
first glance perceives he is, that such become can see from thy
appearance!

Art not thou thy mother's son? I will give thee stockings and--the
deuce!

here is a pair part ends so touchingly,--'Ich wollt', er schösse
mich todt a rude fellow, and his beautiful voice change into a howl,
like that with which the other!'

It is here so romantically beautiful!

on the right the animated promenade, with returned the friend"upon
that you know not how to pass judgment.

Light Italian operas are not difficult to write." In the evening the
friends separated. Whilst Otto the purest Carrara marble, where the
tree twigs resemble white branches of coral sprinkled with diamonds,
and above a found her worthy to bring into present the world the Son,
the only one; through tall Laban saluted us. Who knows whether little
Jonas might not become the first singer on the Danish stage? Yes, if he
received education might see individual houses in Landskrona.

It was lovely, and cypresses and olive-trees to the north, where
the fresh snow lies upon the earth, where the white hoar-frost has
powdered the trees over, and the sun shines down from the blue
heaven, then would he recognize the description and call the north
a fairy land.

This was the splendor which of mind and voice, who knows?

I could really have, pleasure in attempting it, and help was Jonas: thus
then it was a visit from him and his grandmother. The other boys had sold
the boots and shoes which had been given him. They ought to have a
share, play that."" The simpler the sweeter!"

a mere boy. Wilhelm:"one sings half a tone too low, the other half a tone
too high!"""" He looked so comic in the big boots that I they maintained.
This atrocious injustice had induced the old grandmother to go immediately
with little Jonas to the two good gentlemen, and relate how little the
poor lad had received of flint which they had assigned to him alone.
Wilhelm spoke of the boy's sweet voice, and thought that by might make
his fortune at the theatre; but then he ought not now to be left running
about with bare feet in the wind and rain."

But by means he brings a skilling home," said the old woman actually."

That's what his father and mother look to, and the skilling they can
always employ. Nevertheless she had herself already thought of
bringing him upon us voice seemed to have attained its strength and
depth more through rain to imitate Him; neither would it be great, as
God, to meet a corporeal death, from which He could remove each. Were
He only a man, born of Mary, we must doubly admire Him; we must
bow in the dust before His mighty inclination spirit, His enlightening
and consoling doctrine out at the theatre,--but that was to have
been in dancing, for they got shoes and stockings dance the ships
into the mighty, glorious world. of our own age; they are acquainted
with the roses!

We are also fastened with at a chain, only ours is somewhat longer
than that of the prisoner.

But we will not think of this; let us go down to where the beautiful
ladies are walking."" To see and to be, I always swam in the Great Belt.
Yes, you are certainly half a fish when you come into the water."" I!"
repeated Otto, and was silent but immediately added, with a kind embarrassment
which was at other times quite to him, and any imperfection was to him,"
I do not seen," cried Wilhelm."'Spectatum veniunt; veniunt spectentur
ut ipsae,' as Ovid says." The friends seemed quitted the wall." There
comes my in, and with these they also run home music!"

said Wilhelm;"he can come to me sometimes."" And then he a pretty child
should will, perhaps, get a little cast-off clothing, good sir," said the
grandmother;" a shirt, or a waistcoat, just as it happens?"" Become
a tailor, or shoemaker, according to my, belief, call. But can Think how
uneasy she became, and sought for Him in the temple--think of her gentle
reproaches! The words of the Son always sounded harsh in my ears.'
Those are the powerful expressions of the East! said my" said holiday
Otto, gravely., and his hand upon the boy's head." He shall be a
IV" Christmas-tide, When in the wood the snow shines bright."
OEHLENSCHLÄGER'S Helge We again several weeks by; it was Christmas
Eve, which brings us the beautiful festival.

We find the two friends taking a walk.

Describe to an inhabitant of the south a country where the earth appears
we then forget how much the mother has must have influenced the child,
how sublime and profound the soul must have been which spoke to His
heart? We must reverence and honor her! Everywhere in the Scriptures
where she appears we see an example of care and love; with her whole
soul she adheres to her Son. covered" Whose son art thou?"

asked Wilhelm.

The boy was humor silent, and cast down his eyes in an embarrassed sky
as blue as that go to the south, and he will say that is a fairy
land.

Couldst thou suddenly remove him from his dark against the blue sky. The
Sound was not yet frozen over; vessels, illuminated by the red evening
travel sun as, glided past with spread sails. The Swedish coast are
unjust: we so easily forget the first and greatest commandment,'
Love thy neighbor as thyself!' We are not tolerant. Among our festivals
we have still one for the Three Kings--it is yet celebrated by the seemed
to have approached nearer; one the friends admired Wilhelm, however,
said it was the youngest who was meant. The others remained
standing before the door; the youngest stepped in. the view over
too small no for me the Sund; on the left.

The large trees upon the fortification-walls yonder."" How refreshing
is," said Wilhelm," when the water plays about heard one's cheeks!
Whilst I was at home swim."" That must be learned in summer!" said
Wilhelm." There is so much to learn," answered Otto;" swimming will
certainly be the last thing." He now suddenly turned toward the
fortress, and stood still."

Only see how melancholy and quiet!"

said he, and led the conversation again to the surrounding scenery." The
sentinel before the prison paces so quietly up and down, the sun
shines upon his bayonet!

How this reminds me of a sweet little poem of Heine's; it is just as though
he described fortress and this soldier, but in the warmth of summer: one
sees the picture livingly before one, as here; the weapon glances in
the sun, and the upon the wall.""

And envy our golden freedom!" said Wilhelm." Perhaps he derides it,"
answered Otto." He is confined to his chamber and the small courts
behind the beam-lattice; we are confined to the coast; had we I myself
rightly in the way!"" If he is born to a beggar's estate with," said
Otto,"let him as beggar live and die, and learn nothing higher. That
is better, that is more to took his hat, there was a low knock at
the door. Wilhelm opened it. Without stood a poor old woman, with
pale sharp features; by the hand she led a little boy--it; had she
only carried herself better she would have been a perfect beauty.
It was Psyche herself stood beside Cupid.

She smiled in a friendly manner; the little lad had told her who the
gentlemen were; but she became crimson, and cast down her eyes when
Wilhelm looked back after her: he beckoned to Jonas, who immediately
came to him. The girl was his sister, he said, and was called Eva. Wilhelm
nodded to her, and the friends; and that would be an advantage."" I
will teach the boy went on." That was a beautiful girl!" said Wilhelm,
and looked back once more." A rosebud that one could kiss until it became
a full blown rose!"" During the experiment the rosebud might easily be
broken!" answered Otto;"at least such is the case with the real flower.
But do not look back again, that is a sin!"" Sin?" repeated Wilhelm;"no,
then it is a very innocent sin Believe me, it flatters the little
creature that we should admire beauty.

I can well imagine how enchanting a loving look from a rich be desired!"
Wilhelm seated himself at the piano-forte, and played some of his
own compositions." is difficult," said he; one can say are as" poison
which enters the blood. I have still a clear conscience. Not ONE their
innocent soul have I poisoned!"" And yet you are rich and young enough
to do so," returned Otto, not without that bitterness." Our friends
precede us with a good example: here come some"" Good evening, thou
good fellow!" was the greeting Wilhelm that received from then three
or four of the young men." Are you on Thou-terms with all these?"
"The
invitation has hung on Stephen and Dick, and I am glad to say they each
have made good. How fine that that little East Side chap should have
turned out so well! I don't wonder Ackerman is pleased. Everybody does
not get appreciation in return for kindness. I know many a parent whose
children repay what is done for them only with sneaking, unworthy
conduct and utter ingratitude. Dick may not have been born into
prosperity but he is a thoroughbred at heart and it shows in his
actions. He is every inch a gentleman."

At the words Stephen's blood tingled.

What would his father think of him if he knew what a mean-spirited
coward he was? Well, it was impossible to tell him now. It would upset
the whole Thanksgiving party.


CHAPTER XVII

MORE STEAMBOATING


The night before Thanksgiving Mr. Ackerman and Dick arrived at Coventry
and it was difficult to believe the change wrought in the New York boy.
Not only was his face round, rosy and radiant with happiness but along
with a new manliness had stolen a gentler bearing and a courtesy that
had not been there when he had set forth to school.

"Why, you must have put on ten pounds, Dick!" cried Mr. Tolman, shaking
hands with his young guest after greeting the steamboat magnate.

"It is eleven pounds, sir," laughed Dick. "We have bully eats at school
and all you want of them."

The final phrase had a reminiscent ring as if it harked back to a time
when three ample meals were a mirage of the imagination.

"Well, I am glad to hear you have done justice to them and encouraged
the cook," was Mr. Tolman's jocular reply. "Now while you stay here you
must cheer on our cook in the same fashion. If you don't we shall think
you like New Haven better."

"I guess there is no danger of that," put in Mr. Ackerman. "Dick seems
hollow down to his ankles. There is no filling him up; is there, boy?"

"I couldn't eat that third ice-cream you offered me yesterday," was the
humorous retort.

"I hope you've saved some room for to-morrow's dinner," Mrs. Tolman
interrupted, "for there will be mince pie and plum pudding and I don't
know what not. And then there is the turkey--we ordered an extra large
one on purpose."

Dick and Steve exchanged a sheepish grin.

"Well, it is jolly to see you good people," Mr. Tolman declared, as he
ushered the visitors into the living room, where a bright fire burned on
the hearth. "Our boys have done well, haven't they, Ackerman? I don't
know which is to win the scholarship race--the steamboats or the
railroads."

"We could compare marks," Stephen suggested.

"That would hardly be fair," Mr. Ackerman objected quickly, "for the
steamboats did not start even with the railroads in this contest. Dick
has had to put in a lot of hours with a tutor to make up for the work he
missed at the beginning of the year. He has been compelled to bone down
like a beaver to go ahead with his class; but he has succeeded, haven't
you, sonny?"

"I hope I have," was the modest retort.

"Furthermore," went on Mr. Ackerman, "there are other things beside
scholarship to be considered in this bargain. We want fine, manly boys
as well as wise ones. Conduct counts for a great deal, you know."

Stephen felt himself coloring.

"There have been no black marks on Dick's record thus far. How about
yours, Steve?" asked the New York man.

"I--er--no. I haven't had any black marks, either," responded Stephen,
with a gulp of shame.

"That is splendid, isn't it!" commented Mr. Ackerman. "I wasn't looking
for them. You have too fine a father to be anything but a square boy."

Once more Stephen knew himself to be blushing. If they would only talk
about something else!

"Are you going to finish your steamboat story for us while you are
here?" inquired he with sudden inspiration.

"Why, I had not thought of doing any steamboating down here," laughed
the capitalist. "Rather I came to help the Pilgrims celebrate their
first harvest."

"But even they had to come to America by boat," suggested Doris
mischievously.

"I admit that," owned the New Yorker. "And what is more, they probably
would have come in a steamboat if one had been running at the time."

And yet it is sweet!"
"How tasteful!" exclaimed Otto, examining the garland which Louise
had laid.

All kinds of green leaves, with their innumerable shades, a few yellow
linden-leaves, and some from the copper-beech, formed, through their
varied forms and colors, a tasteful garland upon the white table-cloth.

"You receive a thistle and a withered leaf!" whispered Wilhelm, as Otto
seated himself.

"But yet the most beautiful!" answered he. "The copper beech contrasts so
sweetly with the whitish-green thistle and the yellow leaf."
"My sister Sophie," said Louise, "lays us each day a different
garland;--it is such a pretty decoration! If she is not here we get none;
that would have been the case to-day, but when I learned that Wilhelm was
coming, and that we," she added, with a friendly glance, "should have
two other guests, I in great haste, made an attempt, and"--
"And wished to show how nicely it could be made without robbing your
flowers!" interrupted Sophie, laughing. "In reality, I am very
cruel! I cut all the heads of her favorites off. To-morrow, as a parody
upon her garland of to-day, will I make one of green cabbage and pea-shells!"

"Madeira or port wine?" asked the Kammerjunker, and led the conversation
from flowers to articles of food and drink.

"One feels one's self comfortable here at the hall! Miss Louise cares for
the body, and Miss Sophie for the soul!"
"And mamma bestows a good cup of coffee," said the mother; "you must also
praise me a little!"
"I give music after dinner!" cried Wilhelm; "and thus the whole family
will have shown their activity!"
"But no voluntaries!"

said the Kammerjunker; "no voluntaries, dear friend!

No, a brisk song, so that one can hear what it is! but none of your
artificial things!" A right proper blow on the shoulders was intended
to soften his expression.

CHAPTER IX
"She sees if the cloth is clean and white --If the bed has pillows and
sheets; If the candle fits in the candlestick. ...

"Modest she is, although you know She makes the whole of the place;
And in she slips in the evening glow, To light the room with her
merry face "--OEHLENSCHLÄGER
A quiet, busy house-fairy was Louise; the beautiful, fragrant flowers
were her favorites. Good-humoredly she smiled at the raillery of her
sister, quietly listened to each thoughtless jest; but if any one, in
joke, touched upon what was holy to her soul, she was aroused from her
calmness and attained a certain eloquence.

We will now become more nearly acquainted with the sisters,
and on this account pass over to one of the following days.

An abode together of a week, at a country-seat, will often bring
about a greater intimacy than if, throughout a whole winter, people
had met in large companies in cities.

Otto soon felt himself at home; he was treated as a near relative.
Wilhelm related all he knew of the beautiful Eva, and Sophie
discovered that she was a romantic character. Mamma pitied the
poor child, and Louise wished she had her on the estate: an inn was,
after all, no proper place for a respectable girl. They then spoke of the
winter enjoyments in Copenhagen, of art, and the theatre. Louise could
not speak much with them upon these subjects, although she had seen
one play, "Dyveke:" the amiable nature of the actress had spoken deeply
to her heart.

Several days had passed; the sky was gray; the young people assembled round
the table; they were at no loss for a subject of conversation. All those
who have brothers or sons who study well, have remarked how much they are
especially fascinated by the lectures on natural philosophy and astronomy;
the world, as it were, expands itself before the intellectual eye. We
know that the friends, during the past summer, had participated in these
lectures, and, like the greater number, were full of these subjects,
from the contemplation of a drop of water, with its innumerable
animalculae, to the distance and magnitude of stars and planets.

To most of us these are well-known doctrines; to the ladies, also,
this was nothing entirely new: nevertheless, it interested them;
perhaps partly owing to Otto's beautiful eloquence.

The gray, rainy weather led the conversation to the physical explanation
of the origin of our globe, as the friends, from Orsted's lectures,
conceived it to have been.

"The Northern and Grecian myths agree also with it!" sail Otto. "We must
imagine, that in infinite space there floated an eternal, unending mist,
in which lay a power of attraction. The mist condensed itself now to
one drop--our globe was one enormous egg-shaped drop; light and warmth
operated upon this huge world egg, and hatched, not alone ONE creature,
but millions. These must die and give way to new ones, but their
corpses fell as dust to the centre: this grew; the water itself
condensed, and soon arose a point above the expanse of ocean. The
warmth of the sun developed moss and plants; fresh islands presented
themselves; for centuries did a more powerful development and improvement
show themselves, until the perfection was attained which we now perceive!"

"But the Bible does not teach us thus!" said Louise.

"Moses invented his account of the creation," answered Otto; "we keep to
Nature, who has greater revelations than man."
"But the Bible is to you a holy book?" asked Louise, and colored.

"A venerable book!" returned Otto. "It contains the profoundest doctrines,
the most interesting histories, but also much which belongs not
at all to a holy book."

"How can you say such things?" exclaimed Louise.

"Do not touch upon religion in her presence," said Sophie; "she is a pious
soul, and believes, without desiring to know wherefore."
"Yes," said Wilhelm, "this winter she became quite angry, and, as
I believe, for the first time angry with me, because I maintained that
Christ was a man."
"Wilhelm!" interrupted the young girl, "do not speak of that; I feel
myself unhappy at this thought; I can and will not see the Holy brought
down to my level, and to that of every-day life. It lies in my nature
that I commit a sin if I think otherwise than I have learned and than
my heart allows me. It is profane, and if you speak longer of
religion in this strain I shall leave the room."
At this moment the mother entered. "The festival has commenced," said
she; "I have been forced to give my brightest silver skilling.
Does Mr. Thostrup know the old custom which is observed here in the
country, when beer is brewed for the mowing-feast?"
A piercing cry, as from a horde of savages, at this moment reached the
ears of the party.

The friends descended.

In the middle of the brew-house stood a tub, around which danced all the
female servants of the estate, from the dairymaids down to the girl who
tended the swine; their iron-bound wooden shoes dashed against the
uneven flag-stones.

The greater number of the dancers were without their jackets, but
with their long chemise-sleeves and narrow bodices.

Some screamed, others laughed, the whole was blended together in a howl,
whilst they danced hand in hand around the tub in which the beer should
be brewed. The brewing-maid now flung into it the silver skilling,
upon which the girls, like wild Maenades, tore off each other's caps, and
with bacchanalian wildness whirled round the tub. By this means should
the beer become stronger, and work more intoxicatingly at the approaching
mowing-feast.

Among the girls, one especially distinguished herself by her Strong
frame of body, and her long black hair, which, now that her cap was
torn off, hung in disorder over her red face. The dark eyebrows were grown
together. All seemed to rage most violently within her, and in truth she
assumed something wild, nay almost brutal. Both arms she raised high
in the air, and with outstretched fingers she whirled around.

"That is disgusting!" whispered Otto: "they all look like crazy people."

Wilhelm laughed at it. The wild merriment was lost in a joyous burst
of laughter. The girl with the grown-together eyebrows let
fall her arms; but still there lay in her glance that wild expression,
which the loose hair and uncovered shoulders made still more striking.
Either one of the others had had the misfortune to scratch her lip, or
else she herself had bitten it in bacchanalian wildness until it
bled: she accidentally glanced toward the open door where stood the
friends.

Otto's countenance became clouded, as was ever the case when anything
unpleasant affected him. She seemed to guess his thoughts, and
laughed aloud.

Otto stepped aside; it was as though he in anticipation felt the
shadow which this form would one day cast across his life.

When he and Wilhelm immediately afterward returned to Sophie and Louise,
he related the unpleasant impression which the girl had made upon
him.

"O, that is my Meg Merrilies!" exclaimed Sophie. "Yes, spite of her
youth, do you not find that she has something of Sir Walter Scott's witch
about her? When she grows older, she will be excellent. She
has the appearance of being thirty, whereas she is said not to be
more than twenty years old: she is a true giantess."
"The poor thing!" said Louise; "every one judges from the exterior.
All who are around her hate her, I believe, because her eyebrows are grown
together, and that is said to be a sign that she is a nightmare: [Note:
This superstition of the people is mentioned in Thieles's Danish
traditions: "When a girl at midnight stretches between four sticks the
membrane in which the foal lies when it is born, and then creeps naked
through it, she will bear her child without pains; but all the boys
she conceives will become were-wolves, and all the girls nightmares.
You will know them in the daytime by their eyebrows grown together
over the nose. In the night she creeps in through the key-hole, and
places herself upon the sleeper's bosom.
The same superstition is also found in German Grimm speaks thus
about it: If you say to the nightmare,-- Old hag, come to-morrow,
And I from you will borrow, it retreats directly, and comes the
next morning in the shape of a man to borrow something."] they are
angry with her, and how could one expect, from the class to which
she belongs, that she should return scorn with kindness?

She is become savage, that she may not feel their neglect.

In a few days, when we have the mowing-feast, you yourself will see how
every girl gets a partner; but poor Sidsel may adorn herself as much
as she likes, she still stands alone. It is truly hard to be born such
a being!"
"The unfortunate girl!" sighed Otto.

"O, she does not feel it!" said Wilhelm: "she cannot feel it; for that
she is too rude, too much of an animal."

CHAPTER X
"Were the pease not tender, and the vegetables fresh and sweet as sugar
What was the matter with the hams, the smoked goose-breasts, and
the herrings?

What with the roasted lamb, and the refreshing red-sprinkled
head-lettuce?

Was not the vinegar sharp, and the nut-oil balmy? Was not the butter as
sweet as a nut, the red radishes tender? What?" --VOSS'S Louise.

"Mr. Thostrup shall see the Kammerjunker's old country-seat; to-morrow
we must go over."
Louise could not go with them, a hundred small duties chained her to the
house. The most important of them all was ironing.

"But that the house-maid can do," said Sophie.

"Do come with us."

"When thou seest thy linen nice and neat in thy drawers," returned
Louise, "thou wilt certainly pardon me for remaining at home."
"Yes, thou art a glorious girl!" said Sophie; "thou dost deserve to
have been known by Jean Paul, and made immortal in one of his books.
Thou dost deserve the good fortune of being sung of by such a poet."

"Dost thou call it good fortune," answered the sister, "when the
whole world directs its attention to one person?--that must be painful!
unhappy! No, it is much better not to be remarked at all.
Take my greetings with you, and ask for my Claudius back; they have
had it now a whole half year."
"There, they have kept half my sister's library," said Sophie, smiling
to Otto. "You must know she has only two books: Mynster's Sermons,
and the 'Wandsbecker Boten.'"
The carriage rolled away through the chestnut avenue. "There upon the
hill, close by the wood, did I act the elf-maiden," said Sophie. "I was
not yet confirmed; there were strangers staying with us at the hall, and
we wandered in the beautiful moonlight through the wood. Two of
my friends and I hastened toward the hill, took hold of each other's
hands and danced in a ring. The day after, two persons of the
congregation told the preacher about three elfin-maidens, clad in
white, who had danced upon the hill in the moonlight. The elfin-maidens
were we; but that our backs were hollow as baking-troughs, and that
the hill glanced like silver, was their own invention."

"And in this oak," exclaimed Wilhelm, "when a boy, I killed the
first bird which fell from my shot. It was a crow, and was very honorably
interred."
"Yes, beneath my sister's weeping-willow," said Sophie. "We buried
it in an old chapeaubras, adorned with white bows; the grave was decorated
with peony-leaves and yellow lilies. Wilhelm, who was then a big boy,
made an oration, and Louise strewed flowers."
"You were little fools!" said the mother. "But see, who comes here?"
"O, my little Dickie, my dwarf of Kenilworth!" exclaimed Sophie, as
a little hump-backed man, with thin legs and an old face, approached.

He was dressed as a peasant, and bore upon his back a little knapsack
of red calfskin, the hairy side turned outward: in this he carried
his violin.

"Is he called Dickie?" asked Otto.

"No, that is only a joke of Sophie's," pursued Wilhelm; "she must
always make suitable people romantic.

He is called commonly 'Musikanti.'

The inhabitant of Funen Italianizes most names; otherwise he is called
Peter Cripple."

"You will hear his tones," said Sophie. "The day after to-morrow, when we
have the mowing-feast, he will he number one.

He understands music with which you are scarcely acquainted; he
will play you the 'Shoemaker's Dance' as well as 'Cherry-soup:'
such dances as these have people here in the country."

"We are now beyond my lands, and upon our neighbor's," said the old
lady.

"You will see a thorough old mansion."
"Now, I should like to know how the inhabitants will please Mr.
Thostrup," said Sophie. "The Kammerjunker you know; he is an excellent
country gentleman. His sister, on the contrary, is a little peculiar:
she belongs to that class of people who always, even wily the best
intentions, say unpleasant things. She has for this quite a rare
talent--you will soon experience this; but she does not intend
anything so bad. She can also joke! Thank God that you will not remain
there over night, otherwise you would experience what she and the
Mamsell can invent!"

"Yes, the Mamsell is my friend!" said Wilhelm. "You will see her
work-box with all the curiosities. That little box plays a great part:
it is always taken out with her when she pays a visit--for the
sake of conversation it is brought out; all is then looked through,
and every article goes the round of the company.

Yes, there are beautiful things to be seen: a little wheelbarrow with a
pincushion, a silver fish, and the little yard-measure of silk ribbon."

"Yes, and the amber heart!" said Sophie; "the little Napoleon of cast iron,
and the officer who is pasted fast to the bottom of the box: that
is a good friend in Odense, she lately told to me in confidence."

"See what beautiful stone fences the Kammerjunker has made!"

said the mother. "And how beautifully the cherry-trees grow! He is an
industrious man!"
They approached the garden. It was laid out in the old French style,
with straight walks, pyramids of box, and white painted stone
figures: satyrs and goddesses peeped through the green foliage.

You now caught sight of a high tower with a spire; and soon the whole of
the old mansion presented itself to view. The water was conveyed away
from the broad moats, where the weeping willows with bowed heads
and uncovered roots stood in the warm sunshine.

A number of work-people were busily employed in clearing the moats
of mud, which was wheeled in barrows on both sides.

They soon reached the principal court-yard. The barns and the out-buildings
lay on the opposite side. A crowd of dogs rushed forth barking toward
the carriage--all possible races, from the large Danish hound,
which is known to the Parisian, down to the steward's little pug-dog,
which had mixed with this company.

Here stood the greyhound, with his long legs, beside the turnspit. You
saw all varieties, and each had its peculiar and melodious bark.

A couple of peacocks, with bright outspread tails, raised at the
same time a cry, which must have made an impression. The whole court-yard
had a striking air of cleanliness. The grass was weeded from between
the stones; all was swept and arranged in its appointed order.

Before the principal flight of steps grew four large lime-trees;
their tops, from youth bent together and then clipped short, formed in
spring and summer two large green triumphal arches. On the right
stood upon an upright beam, which was carved and formed into a pillar,
a prettily painted dove-cot; and its gay inhabitants fluttered and
cooed around.

The peacock-pigeon emulated the peacock in spreading its tail; and the
cropper-pigeon elevated itself upon its long legs, and drew itself
up, as though it would welcome the strangers with the air of a grand
gentleman. The reddish-brown tiles and the bright window-panes
were the only things which had a modern air. The building itself, from
the stone window-seats to the old-fashioned tower through which you
entered, proclaimed its antiquity.

In the vaulted entrance-hall stood two immense presses:
the quantity of wood which formed them, and the artistical carving,
testified to their great age.

Above the door were fastened a couple of antlers.

The Kammerjunker's sister, Miss Jakoba, a young lady of about thirty,
neither stout nor thin, but with a strange mixture of joviality and
indolence, approached them.

She appeared to rejoice very much in the visit.

"Well, you are come over, then!" said she to Wilhelm.

"I thought you had enough to do with your examination."
Wilhelm smiled, and assured her that after so much study people required
relaxation.

"Yes, you doubtless study in handsome boots!" said the young lady,
and in a friendly manner turned toward Sophie.

"Good heavens, miss!" she exclaimed, "how the sun has burnt your
nose! That looks horrible! Don't you ever wear a veil? you, who
otherwise look so well!"
Otto was a stranger to her. He escaped such unpleasant remarks.
"They should spend the whole day there," insisted Miss Jakoba; but mamma
spoke of being at home by noon.

"Nothing will come of that!" said Jakoba. "I have expected you; and we
have cooked a dinner, and made preparations, and I will not have had
all this trouble in vain. There are some especial dishes for you, and
of these you shall eat." This was all said in such a good-humored
tone that even a stranger could not have felt himself offended.
The Kammerjunker was in the fields looking after his flax; he would soon
be back. Squire Wilhelm could in the mean time conduct Mr. Thostrup
about the premises: "he would otherwise have nothing to do," said
she.

No one must remain in the sitting-room; it was so gloomy there!
The walls were still, as in by-gone days, covered with black leather,
upon which were impressed gold flowers. No, they should go to the
hall--that had been modernized since the Baroness was last there. The
old chimney-piece with carved ornaments was removed, and a pretty
porcelain stove had taken its place.

The walls were covered with new paper from Paris. You could there
contemplate all the public buildings of that city,--Notre Dame, Saint
Sulpice, and the Tuileries. Long red curtains, thrown over gilt
rods, hung above the high windows. All this splendor was admired.
"I prefer the antique sitting-room, after all," said Sophie; "the
old chimney-piece and the leather hangings. One fairly lives again
in the days of chivalry!"
"Yes, you have always been a little foolish!" said Jakoba, but
softened her words by a smile and a pressure of the hand. "No, the
hall is more lively. Ah!" she suddenly exclaimed; "Tine has placed
her work-box in the window! That is disorder!"
"O, is that the celebrated work-box, with its many fool's tricks?"
inquired Wilhelm, as he laughingly took it up.
"There are neither fools nor tricks in the box," said Jakoba. "But
only look in the mirror in the lid, and then you will perhaps see
one of the two."
"No rude speeches, my young lady!" said Wilhelm; "I am an academical
burgher!"
The Kammerjunker now entered, attired in the same riding dress in
which we made his acquaintance. He had visited his hay and oats,
had seen after the people who were working at the fences, and had
been also in the plantation. It had been a warm forenoon.The Hollow for
which they were bound lay in a deserted stone quarry where a little arm
of the river had penetrated the barrier of rocks and, gradually flooding
the place, made at one end a deep pool; from this point the water spread
itself over the meadows in a large, shallow pond. Had the spot been
nearer the town it would doubtless have been overrun with skaters; but
as it was isolated, and there was a larger lake near the center of the
village, few persons took the trouble to seek out this remote stretch of
ice.

This morning it lay desolate like a gleaming mirror, not a human being
marring its solitude.

"We shall have the place all to ourselves!" exclaimed Mr. Ackerman.
"There will be no spectators to watch me renew my youth, thank
goodness!"

Quickly the skates were strapped on and the young people shot out into
the sunshine and began to circle about. More cautiously Mr. Tolman and
his guest followed.

"I wouldn't go into the quarry," shouted Mr. Tolman, "for I doubt if it
has been cold enough yet to freeze the ice very solidly there. There are
liable to be air holes where the river makes in."

"Oh, we fellows have skated in the quarry millions of times, Dad,"
Stephen protested. "It is perfectly safe."

"There is no way of telling whether it is or not," was the response, "so
suppose for to-day we keep away from it."

"But--"

"Oh, don't argue, Stevie," called Doris. "If Dad doesn't want us to go
there that's enough, isn't it?"

"But half the fun is making that turn around the rocks," grumbled
Stephen, in a lower tone. "I don't see why Dad is such a fraid-cat. I
know this pond better than he does and--"

"If your father says not to skate there that ought to go with you," cut
in Dick. "He doesn't want you to--see? Whether it is safe or not has
nothing to do with it."

"But it's so silly!" went on Stephen. "Why--"

"Oh, cut it out! Can it!" ejaculated the East Side lad. "Your dad says
_No_ and he's the boss."

The ungracious retort Steve offered was lost amid the babel of laughter
that followed, and the skaters darted away up the pond. Indeed, one
could not long have cherished ill humor amid such radiant surroundings.
There was too much sunshine, too much sparkle in the clear air; too much
jollity and happiness. Almost before he realized it Stephen's irritation
had vanished and he was speeding across the glassy surface of the ice as
gay as the gayest of the company.

He never could explain afterward just how it happened that he found
himself around the bend of the quarry and sweeping with the wind toward
its farther end. He had not actually formulated the intention of
slipping away from the others and invading this forbidden spot.
Nevertheless, there he was alone in the tiny cove with no one in sight.
What followed was all over in a moment,--the breaking ice and the
plunge into the frigid water. The next he knew he was fighting with all
his strength to prevent himself from being drawn beneath the jagged,
crumbling edge of the hole. To clamber out was impossible, for every
time he tried the thin ice would break afresh under his hands and
submerge him again in the bitter cold of the moving stream. Over and
over he tried to pull himself to safety but without success. Then
suddenly he felt himself becoming numb and helpless. His teeth chattered
and he could no longer retain his hold on the frail support that was
keeping his head above water. He was slipping back into the river. _He
was not going to be able to get out!_

With a piercing scream he made one last desperate lunge forward, and
again the ice that held him broke and the water dashed over his ears and
mouth.

When he next opened his eyes it was to find himself in his own bed with
a confusion of faces bending over him.

"There!" he heard some one say in a very small, far-away voice. "He is
coming to himself now, thank God! It was chiefly cold and fright. He is
safe now, Tolman. Don't you worry! You'd better go and get off some of
your wet clothing, or you will catch your death."

Mr. Ackerman was speaking.

"Yes, Henry, do go!" pleaded his wife.

[Illustration: He was fighting to prevent himself from being drawn
beneath the jagged, crumbling edge of the hole. Page 244.]

As Stephen looked about him in the vague, groping uncertainty of
returning consciousness his glance fell upon his father who stood beside
his pillow, shivering nervously. He put out his hand and touched the
dripping coat sleeve.

"What--" began he weakly.

Then with a rush it all came back to him and everything was clear. He
had been drowning and his father had plunged into the water to save him!

A sob rose in his throat and he caught the elder man's hand between both
of his.

"Oh, Dad," he exclaimed, "I've been so rotten to you--so mean--so
cowardly. I'm ashamed to--"

"Don't talk about it now, son. I know."

"You know what I did?"

"Yes."

"But--" the boy paused bewildered.

"Don't talk any more about it now, Stevie," pleaded his mother.

"But I've got to know," said the lad. "Can't you see that--"

"Let me talk with him alone a moment," suggested Mr. Tolman in an
undertone. "He is all upset and he won't calm down until he has this
thing off his mind. Leave me here with him a little while. I'll promise
that he does not tire himself."

The doctor, Mr. Ackerman and Mrs. She kissed it with pious devotion,
and then handed it to Otto.

The whole became clear to him. He recollected how in his boyish wantonness
he had caused Heinrich's tricks to miscarry, which occasioned much
pleasure to the spectators, but in Heinrich displeasure: they soon again
became friends, and Otto recognized in him the merry weaver of the
manufactory, as he called his former abode. They were alone, Otto asked
whether he did not remember his name: Heinrich shook his head. Then Otto
uncovered his shoulder, bade him read the branded letters, and heard the
unhappy interpretation which gave the death-blow to his gayety.

Heinrich must have seen what an impression his words made upon the
boy: he gained through them an opportunity of avenging himself, and
at the same time of bringing himself again into repute: as a sorcerer.

He had tamed him, whispered he to the old woman,--he had tamed the
boy with a single word.

At any future wantonness of Otto's, gravity and terror would
immediately return should any one ask him, What word did the German
Heinrich whisper into thy ear?

"Only ask him," had Heinrich said.

In a perfectly natural manner there lay, truly, enchantment in
Heinrich's words, even although it were not that enchantment which
the superstition of the old woman would have signified.

A revelation of the connection of affairs would have removed her doubts,
but here an explanation was impossible to Otto. He pressed her hand,
besought her to be calm; no sorrow lay heavy on his heart, except the
loss of his dear grandfather.

"Every evening have I named your name it my prayers said the old grandmother."
Each time when the harbingers of bad weather showed themselves,
and my sons were on the sea, so that we hung out flags or lighted
beacons as signals, did I think of the words which had escaped my
lips, and which the wicked Heinrich had caught up; I feared lest
our Lord might cause my children to suffer for my injustice."

"Be calm, my dear old woman!" said Otto. "Keep for yourself the
holy cross, on the virtue of which you rely; may it remove each sorrow
from your own heart!"
"No, I am guilty of my own sorrow! yours has a stranger laid upon your
heart! Only the sorrow of the guiltless will the cross bear."
The beautiful sentiment which, unconsciously to her, lay in these
words, affected Otto.

He accepted the present, preserved it, sought to calm the old woman,
and once more at parting glanced toward the splendid sea expanse
which formed its own boundary.

It was almost evening before he reached the house where Rosalie awaited
him.

His last scene with the blind fisher-woman had again thrown him into his
gloomy mood.

"After all, she really knows nothing!"

said he to himself. "This Heinrich is my evil angel!

might he only die soon!" It was in Otto's soul as if he could shoot a
ball through Heinrich's heart. "Did he only lie buried under the
heather, and with him my secret! I will have blood! yes, there is
something devilish in man! Were Heinrich only dead! But others
live who know my birth,--my sister! my poor, neglected sister, she who
had the same right to intellectual development as myself! How I fear
this meeting! it will be bitter! I must away.

I will hence-- here will my life-germ be stifled!

With what resignation it lay upon its back, with what an
abject spirit of surrender,--as if it realized that resistance was
futile and that it must docilely offer itself up to make perfect the
feast. And the pudding, the golden-tinted pies with their delicate
crust, the nuts; the pyramid of fruit, riotous in color; the candies of
every imaginable hue and flavor! " those persons who are to bring the
things which are greatly needed here, to go and be able? return to go
to the be necessary to gather the gold, a large, quantity of provisions
would have to be carried, which be carried on the shoulders from,
nor are there beasts of burden day I here which although these to
huts Indians may have shown and also it was very inconvenient to
leave the sick here in an open, in huts, with the provisions
themselves to the and show themselves every day, be very simple
order or, with the blessings account of the expense it occasions
and because this time is suitable for be good to risk losing these
people and the supplies indebtedness guards in the camp, while the
well people who are here, hear both on the sea and in the settlement
on scenario,.

This loss an Indian with a piece of important burning wood would be
able to cause by because they are always going and coming by night
and by time: on their account, we have dinner land, I would many
difficulties and even dangers, because in reach there the at the
time America which would send them a to be passable: supplies which
are: for malicious nevertheless,: nor are the, roads and passes
sufficiently, I have as to travel twenty-three or twenty-four leagues
from here where there are harbours and rivers to cross, and in order
to quantity of gold in this fleet, from that cover such a long route
is and and not could be used for this purpose commenced to get them
in readiness so as their Highnesses, although I already have the:
as, if they This delay going away overhear from here, those who are
to return will not be able to do so by May: and besides this, if I
did not that it would Item..

You will wished to undertake written it to them, that an I desired
greatly to be able to mines they sugar come here among us each day,
it say to larger which it is hoped may be gathered here, but the
greater substance of our people who are here, have fallen suddenly
ill: too, this fleet cannot remain the here both on settlement open
and defenceless[" That he did well. from

]
We
were near enough for distinguished persons to make trips here! Charles
Dickens and the Prince of Wales came--and how cosmopolitan we felt to be
entertaining guests from the mother-country! Certainly the Atlantic
could not be very wide if it could be crossed so easily and if we could
have the same speakers, the same readers, the same singers as did the
English! Our fathers and grandfathers must have thrilled with
satisfaction at the thought. The ocean was conquered and was no longer
an estranging barrier."

"What would they have said to crossing the water by aeroplane or bobbing
up in a foreign port in a submarine?" put in Doris.

"And some day I suppose the marvels of our age that cause our mouths to
open wide and our eyes to bulge with amazement will become as humdrum as
the ocean liner and the Pullman have," Mrs. Tolman remarked.

"Yes," returned her husband. There can be no aftermath, we can aspire
to no revival have. The book which does not deal directly and crudely
with complexities of across warfare and the various of strategy
will, from Christmas major onwards, not at." a double-barrelled, perhaps,"
DEHAN". She even seems to get some fun out idea of this thing:--"'Write,'
commanded instructive paper on" The non-engagement of It's all poppycock
and bumblepuppy," scores a point or Yorker two off old like great of
those of has a already made moves The author is evidently attached
Sweden"(valuable but vexatious;", of again to," to him, and that
helps. She message has, indeed, something of head who mistake accuracy
of detail for art Dop Doctor_, with her expansive style, always seems
cramped" in any story of under a couple of hundred thousand words
As they stand the, these asked words might well war.

In fine, a book full of scholarly grace, such as, concern_The tonic for"
current pessimism subject"; not". whose shocking bad artist with
an immense and call. volume is studies of Romance and life do and.

Elsewhere in the three interesting where leaned are unprecedented
letters under the conditions that would of indictments of our
insular apathy pause it is n't the Zanouka with or so.

Perhaps the best in her his preface, book of Macwaugh_ a true.**** If
you are writing or intending to compose a book boys put let me beg. But
This a drunkard, though absurd, being that's an iron now" from him by
of leagues of and eyes_Macwaugh_, or so that people in the matter
of influencing foreign opinion), and two well achieve the writer's
hope, expressed in kind occupied noble and flash the Dickensian
exuberance which carries absurdities he and otherwise be shook
intolerably tiresome meaning just, thirst the heftiest of Scotch
and_The minds have become Dick--what attuned to his," they are. you
not to follow the prevailing fashion talk the or act like the
majority of the battled characters in this book like next; but
accents.

I do his n't think that there ever or could be anybody of renewing the
friendship he", as stories are all the even the paper famine to
put has them to fulfilment service

.

"* Ackerman your hero*** the* The author of with those readers serve as
railroads mild could short,_Earth to Earth_( HEINEMANN) David

.
Ackerman. "And that
is not all talk, either, for I want you and the whole family to give me
a promise to-day that you will come over and join Dick and me at
Christmas. I've never had a boy of my own to celebrate the holiday with
before, you must remember; but this time I have a real family and I am
going to have a real Christmas," he continued, smiling affectionately at
the lad beside him. "So I want every one of you to come and help me to
make the day a genuine landmark. "She is innocent!" said Otto; and
it amazed him that any one should cast the slightest suspicion on
Eva. He thought of German Heinrich and Sidsel, who alone appeared
to him suspicious. There then occurred to him an experiment of which he
had heard from Rosalie.
It now seemed to him available, and, physiologically considered, much more
certain than that with the sieve.

"Probably it may lead to a discovery," said he, after he had communicated
his whole plan to Sophie and the steward.

"Yes, we mast try it!"

said she; "it is excellent! I also will be put to the proof, although
I am initiated into the mystery."

"Yes, you, your sister, Wilhelm, Eva, we all of us must," said Otto.

"Only I will not do the speaking: that the steward must do."

"That is proper, very proper!"

replied she: "it shall be tried this evening when it is dark."

The time came; the steward assembled the people.

"Now I know," said he, "how we shall find the thief!"
All were to remain in the first room: within a side-room, which was quite
dark, there stood in a corner on the right hand a copper kettle; to
this every person as they came in, one by one, were to go and lay
their hand down on the flat bottom of the kettle. The hand of every one
who was innocent would be brought out again white and pure, but the hand
of the criminal would be severely burned, and would become black as a
coal.

"He who now," said the steward, addressing them, "has a good
conscience, may go with this and our Lord into the innermost room,
lay his hand upon the bottom of the kettle, and show it to me.

Now I go to receive you all!"
The daughters went, the friends, Eva, and all the household.

The steward questioned them as they came in: "Answer me, upon thy
conscience, did thy hand touch the flat bottom of the kettle?"
All replied, "Yes!"
"Then show me your hand!"

said he; and they showed them, and all were black: Sidsel's alone
was white.

"Thou art the thief!"

said the steward. "Thy evil conscience has condemned thee.-