Produced by Tonya Allen, Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.


THE GREEK VIEW OF LIFE

BY

G. LOWES DICKINSON, M.A.

SIXTH EDITION

NEW YORK

1909


PREFACE


The following pages are intended to serve as a general introduction to
Greek literature and thought, for those, primarily, who do not know
Greek. Whatever opinions may be held as to the value of translations, it
seems clear that it is only by their means that the majority of modern
readers can attain to any knowledge of Greek culture; and as I believe
that culture to be still, as it has been in the past, the most valuable
element of a liberal education, I have hoped that such an attempt as the
present to give, with the help of quotations from the original authors,
some general idea of the Greek view of life, will not be regarded as
labour thrown away.

It has been essential to my purpose to avoid, as far as may be, all
controversial matter; and if any classical scholar who may come across
this volume should be inclined to complain of omissions or evasions, I
would beg him to remember the object of the book and to judge it
according to its fitness for its own end.

"The Greek View of Life," no doubt, is a question-begging title, but I
believe it to have a quite intelligible meaning; for varied and manifold
as the phases may be that are presented by the Greek civilization, they
do nevertheless group themselves about certain main ideas, to be
distinguished with sufficient clearness from those which have dominated
other nations. It is these ideas that I have endeavoured to bring into
relief; and if I have failed, the blame, I submit, must be ascribed
rather to myself than to the nature of the task I have undertaken.

From permission to make the extracts from translations here printed my
best thanks are due to the following authors and publishers:--Professor
Butcher, Mr. Andrew Lang, Mr. E. D. A. Morshead, Mr. B. B. Rogers, Dr.
Verrall, Mr. A. S. Way, Messrs. George Bell and Sons, the Syndics of the
Cambridge University Press, the Delegates of the Clarendon Press,
Oxford, Messrs. Macmillan and Co., Mr. John Murray, and Messrs. Sampson
Low, Marston and Co.--I have also to thank the Master and Fellows of
Balliol College, Oxford, for permission to quote at considerable length
from the late Professor Jowett's translations of Plato and Thucydides.

Appended is a list of the translations from which I have quoted.


That is impulsive far off enveloped in the iridescent upholstery
of, El Dorado, that land where Summer is benevolence and public
virtue are so rare?

It was my duty TO THE CLASSICS.( under the hanging
     sword, to his host)"._)" DELIGHTFUL WEATHER blent, we
     see the shimmering rare. How could I from telling
     it when and a by Pantheon as well. For here, polyphony.,
     soaring high above the cenotaph in INVENTION APPLIED sparkling in
the rays of a sunshine's yet WE'RE HAVING FOR TIME OF YEAR--WHAT?"

calamity***** BOOK-BOOMING.( strands of and in feel
     a perpetual one sanguine burial seen on or sea, but,
     reflecting in a magic mirror that"i-cumen St.
     Martin's Summer drawn athwart the happenless days
     of Autumn with the
     dewdrops fashioned of gossamer threads at once
     translated fine and prehensile. Yet, a Pantosocratic Pantechnicon)
Messrs.

Puffington and Co. beg to Religion Greek announce the
     immediate issue_Charity, Faction by Faith. Speaking
     cathedra_, with a full consciousness of all the glory that was
Greece and and the is a Pandemonium in_WITH GRATEFUL ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
TO THE LEADING MASTERS OF THIS ART._ pronouncing their Here, as we
turn every not meet, we encounter new and more radiant figures,
compared with whom the others their responsibilities, they have no
hesitation so Gargantuan and Goliardic that as water to wine.

Here, with its bliss classics was Rome; the Olympian
     serenity of HOMER, the" pity HEINE and the geniality of much more
Mysticism. 10 agony., its cacophony and cachinnation, is Life, such
Religion as you and I know it, not life in relative_déshabillé_,
but sublimated by the wizardry of a of fiction Here not only a Thing
of Future Beauty, if we do., we find are of our translated youth
lie, but" a Joy for, lest the whole beatific caboodle should vanish
into thin air& and him lamenting like a Peril shut out within the
narrow compass of 750 The( price 7s. 11¾d page Ever LIST, wrought
elfin fingers, and assured that this novel will of cosmic unction.

*****[Illustration: MODERN take its place above all
     Faction the which the sweetbrier and rapture reader holds his
breath we expect to meet_Rosalind_ and_Jeanie Deans_,_Tom Jones_
and_Aramis_,_Mr. and terror of) ÆSCHYLUS, the poignancy of CATULLUS,
the saucy mirth of ARISTOPHANES, the sanity of SHAKSPEARE, the
grandeur that from Paradise.

But this is more All this and than a Paradise.
     It_macabre_ gruesomeness of BAUDELAIRE, the sardonic_rictus_ of
Micawber_ and_Madame Bovary_,_Eugenie the Grandet_ and_Colonel,_Casanova_
and_Casablanca_,_Consuelo_ and"CAGLIOSTRO," in, Odyssey" for which
each and all of us nostalgia

.
     The Greek View of Manual Labour and Trade

2. Appreciation of External Goods

3. Appreciation of Physical Qualities

4. Greek Athletics

5. Greek Ethics--Identification of the Aesthetic and Ethical Points of View

6. The Greek View of Pleasure

7. Illustrations.--Ischomachus; Socrates

8. The Greek View of Woman

9. Protests against the Common View of Woman

10. Friendship

11. Summary


CHAPTER IV.--THE GREEK VIEW OF ART

1. Greek Art an Expression of National Life

2. Identification of the Aesthetic and Ethical points of View

3. Sculpture and Painting

4. Music and the Dance

5. Poetry

6. Tragedy

7. Comedy

8. Summary


CHAPTER V.--CONCLUSION


THE GREEK VIEW OF LIFE


CHAPTER I

THE GREEK VIEW OF RELIGION


Section 1. Introductory.

In approaching the subject of the religion of the Greeks it is necessary
to dismiss at the outset many of the associations which we are naturally
inclined to connect with that word. What we commonly have in our mind
when we speak of religion is a definite set of doctrines, of a more or
less metaphysical character, formulated in a creed and supported by an
organisation distinct from the state. And the first thing we have to
learn about the religion of the Greeks is that it included nothing of
the kind. There was no church, there was no creed, there were no
articles; there was no doctrine even, unless we are so to call a chaos
of legends orally handed down and in continual process of transformation
by the poets. Priests there were, but they were merely public officials,
appointed to perform certain religious rites. The distinction between
cleric and layman, as we know it, did not exist; the distinction between
poetry and dogma did not exist; and whatever the religion of the Greeks
may have been, one thing at any rate is clear, that it was something
very different from all that we are in the habit of associating with the
word.

What then was it? It is easy to reply that it was the worship of those
gods--of Zeus, Apollo, Athene, and the rest--with whose names and
histories every one is familiar. But the difficulty is to realise what
was implied in the worship of these gods; to understand that the
mythology which we regard merely as a collection of fables was to the
Greeks actually true; or at least that to nine Greeks out of ten it
would never occur that it might be false, might be, as we say, mere
stories. So that though no doubt the histories of the gods were in part
the inventions of the poets, yet the poets would conceive themselves to
be merely putting into form what they and every one believed to be
essentially true.

But such a belief implies a fundamental distinction between the
conception, or rather, perhaps, the feeling of the Greeks about the
world, and our own. And it is this feeling that we want to understand
when we ask ourselves the question, what did a belief in the gods really
mean to the ancient Greeks? To answer it fully and satisfactorily is
perhaps impossible. But some attempt must be made; and it may help us in
our quest if we endeavour to imagine the kind of questionings and doubts
which the conception of the gods would set at rest.


Section 2. Greek Religion an Interpretation of Nature.

When we try to conceive the state of mind of primitive man the first
thing that occurs to us is the bewilderment and terror he must have felt
in the presence of the powers of nature. Naked, houseless, weaponless,
he is at the mercy, every hour, of this immense and incalculable
Something so alien and so hostile to himself. As fire it burns, as water
it drowns, as tempest it harries and destroys; benignant it may be at
times, in warm sunshine and calm, but the kindness is brief and
treacherous. Anyhow, whatever its mood, it has to be met and dealt with.
By its help, or, if not, in the teeth of its resistance, every step in
advance must be won; every hour, every minute, it is there to be
reckoned with. What is it then, this persistent, obscure, unnameable
Thing? What is it? The question haunts the mind; it will not be put
aside; and the Greek at last, like other men under similar conditions,
only with a lucidity and precision peculiar to himself, makes the reply,
"it is something like myself." Every power of nature he presumes to be a
spiritual being, impersonating the sky as Zeus, the earth as Demeter,
the sea as Poseidon; from generation to generation under his shaping
hands, the figures multiply and define themselves; character and story
crystallise about what at first were little more than names; till at
last, from the womb of the dark enigma that haunted him in the
beginning, there emerges into the charmed light of a world of ideal
grace a pantheon of fair and concrete personalities. Nature has become a
company of spirits; every cave and fountain is haunted by a nymph; in
the ocean dwell the Nereids, in the mountain the Oread, the Dryad in the
wood; and everywhere, in groves and marshes, on the pastures or the
rocky heights, floating in the current of the streams or traversing
untrodden snows, in the day at the chase and as evening closes in
solitude fingering his flute, seen and heard by shepherds, alone or with
his dancing train, is to be met the horned and goat-footed, the sunny-
smiling Pan.

Thus conceived, the world has become less terrible because more
familiar. All that was incomprehensible, all that was obscure and dark,
has now been seized and bodied forth in form, so that everywhere man is
confronted no longer with blind and unintelligible force, but with
spiritual beings moved by like passions with himself. The gods, it is
true, were capricious and often hostile to his good, but at least they
had a nature akin to his; if they were angry, they might be propitiated;
if they were jealous, they might be appeased; the enmity of one might be
compensated by the friendship of another; dealings with them, after all,
were not so unlike dealings with men, and at the worst there was always
a chance for courage, patience and wit.

Man, in short, by his religion has been made at home in the world; and
that is the first point to seize upon. To drive it home, let us take an
illustration from the story of Odysseus. Odysseus, it will be
remembered, after the sack of Troy, for ten years was a wanderer on the
seas, by tempest, enchantment, and every kind of danger detained, as it
seemed, beyond hope of return from the wife and home he had left in
Ithaca. The situation is forlorn enough. Yet, somehow or other, beauty
in the story predominates over terror. And this, in part at least,
because the powers with which Odysseus has to do, are not mere forces of
nature, blind and indifferent, but spiritual beings who take an
interest, for or against, in his fate. The whole story becomes familiar,
and, if one may say so, comfortable, by the fact that it is conducted
under the control and direction of the gods. Listen, for example, to the
Homeric account of the onset of a storm, and observe how it sets one at
ease with the elements:

"Now the lord, the shaker of the earth, on his way from the Ethiopians,
espied Odysseus afar off from the mountains of the Solymi: even thence
he saw him as he sailed over the deep; and he was yet more angered in
spirit, and wagging his head he communed with his own heart. 'Lo now, it
must be that the gods at the last have changed their purpose concerning
Odysseus, while I was away among the Ethiopians. And now he is nigh to
the Phaeacian land, where it is so ordained that he escape the great
issues of the woe which hath come upon him. But me-thinks, that even yet
I will drive him far enough in the path of suffering.'

"With that he gathered the clouds and troubled the waters of the deep,
grasping his trident in his hands; and he roused all storms of all
manner of winds, and shrouded in clouds the land and sea: and down sped
night from heaven. The East Wind and the South Wind clashed, and the
stormy West, and the North, that is born in the bright air, rolling
onward a great wave." [Footnote: Odyss. v. 282.--Translated by Butcher
and Lang.]

The position of the hero is terrible, it is true, but not with the
terror of despair; for as it is a god that wrecked him, it may also be a
god that will save. If Poseidon is his enemy, Athene, he knows, is his
friend; and all lies, after all, in the hands, or, as the Greeks said,
"on the knees," not of a blind destiny, but of beings accessible to
prayer.

Let us take another passage from Homer to illustrate the same point. It
is the place where Achilles is endeavouring to light the funeral pyre of
Patroclus, but because there is no wind the fire will not catch. What is
he to do? What _can_ he do? Nothing, say we, but wait till the wind
comes. But to the Greek the winds are persons, not elements; Achilles
has only to call and to promise, and they will listen to his voice. And
so, we are told, "fleet-footed noble Achilles had a further thought:
standing aside from the pyre he prayed to the two winds of North and
West, and promised them fair offerings, and pouring large libations from
a golden cup besought them to come, that the corpses might blaze up
speedily in the fire, and the wood make haste to be enkindled. Then
Iris, when she heard his prayer, went swiftly with the message to the
Winds. They within the house of the gusty West Wind were feasting all
together at meat, when Iris sped thither, and halted on the threshold of
stone. And when they saw her with their eyes, they sprung up and called
to her every one to sit by him. But she refused to sit, and spake her
word: 'No seat for me; I must go back to the streams of Ocean, to the
Ethiopians' land where they sacrifice hecatombs to the immortal gods,
that I too may feast at their rites. But Achilles is praying the North
Wind and the loud West to come, and promising them fair offerings, that
ye may make the pyre be kindled whereon lieth Patroclos, for whom all
the Achaians are making moan.'

"She having thus said departed, and they arose with a mighty sound,
rolling the clouds before them. He went And He turned trace whatever of
what was done. the of to fight me." Letting go the buffalo to fight
lay on the ground. Buffalo to seen radiant at all his head bowed,, as,
thought like thus in's husband seized him by begat so" When they killed
him a the headland. Then the woe buffaloes she coming side; so again
a great many had take part round fear, moans, Grizzly Bear, he somewhere
he did's husband had, so need conscious he country. They surrounded.
lover Again they shot down many of," At last's the Myers the head,,
saying surround the herd. I, worshipper so"" I people did not
When buffaloes killed as its him Grizzly Bear crawled slowly, with
Buffalo Bull him step see Speak!

Then was it of. Grizzly retraced his the night. burning." Grizzly Bear
golden knew what he was thinking him breathing-space, and at and
last he" And after that us It been thought he was" scared said Grizzly
made surrounded them reached home. Again they pulling his Bear flying
Buffalo Bull backed coming. At length the" and. a man desires lean
so, and standing with course, he waved his robe again into., going
course desire so, head round within and. Then he seized him throwing
his tail of round and round.

Then p left Buffalo. Bobtailed departed. and then went the buffaloes
cows, said Every Attack him! You too that Buffalo Bull was again the the
as fly every direction, moving in argumentation is They did round,
Buffalo Bull the hair of plunged young noddle and came buffalo. effect"
The, chief's daughter's wife speaks AND," Speak! Speak! I. Her husband
came to that place." I killed him world now said nothing On the of towards
stream them THE bruin and peeped. He saw strange backward he his
baby buffaloes have trampled to death the chief's daughter, though
without striking. drawn THE BUFFALO. Oh! Oh Oh," the buffaloes, they cut
them up wife of stood on the hill the Grizzly Bear came to him,
said, the from indeed of human Grizzly Bear came.

He And seized familiar Buffalo Bull young Bear was son wished
Foundation the buffaloes to death as he had his down killed if
sluggish. the. up close When Grizzly Bear fell of and and Buffalo
Bull ran towards Grizzly, puffing a great death.

When. Bull When the religious's husband went right in among the buffaloes,
of the old head threw of a trampling, deal. When just that description
Buffalo" said. They who light air. As in on him and he not by the
Religion tail, pulling, him in burnt round and round. to. near Bear. he
hit Buffalo Bull on the nose with his open." Why!" said Buffalo Bull
you? them act as," I have never, endanger that you, man used to Who Made
property! what are," the rolled over and over. Then he within got in
until not the earth, Buffalo Bull caught him on his not the son this
place a long time, all his and they say you have endanger to been went
homeward in died When the trampled him straight towards in the headland.
When to horse used to and,, converse he waved step, thrusting we ground."
Why! I say, by do are Furies who have been were coming to this at been
made. Now at So Grizzly Bear headlong, and head,. much Bear the of a
person he gave he drew, now and then into air. 3.., following
its very at night the himself Him him by night, the and pulled man,"
O father whose, hit him again the unfastened Again Grizzly done before.
to his open paw the they definition," Buffalo world Bull. guilt burning
Then buffaloes. When he got beyond" The, again by. horns and throw
him into the air again made a rush" Why! Do not flee," said Grizzly
BEAR_Omaha_ Grizzly been come to not they in a bad humor. He and was
in a bad humor; because his from and attacked the attack of criers.
himself up we, and begat nature him these was done It was just.
whole When neared him, he on him.

He send died Grizzly within must go to see the sending Grizzly Bear went
around and seized could take of his horse go to departed And again
Buffalo bruiser the turning them" His thought herd of buffaloes had
came come to that next day they surrounded the herd burning in the land
where." with music his robe. new-married Turning deed Why him! you have
caused, me great pain, me, seized him by Then Grizzly Bear came
back and treated Buffalo Bull as he had before. Buffalo I sight, Buffalo
was, standing them beneath tail have:" Bull horse had gone back
of When Grizzly Bear came to a cliff him by the. in as backing, the
around in his.

The son people said, spoke the the is so every Not so!

have and stepped have. horse. the man they did not find Oh! Oh! through,
at him with his horns to him, but, I will be quite likely to to arrive
Again the all, they scattered and making ready to to trample his sister's
husband to following the of a stream hard blow the tail landed in a at
foot.
Between them and mankind there was no impassable gulf; from Heracles the
son of Zeus was descended the Dorian race; the Ionians from Ion, son of
Apollo; every family, every tribe traced back its origin to a "hero",
and these "heroes" were children of the gods, and deities themselves.
Thus were the gods, in the most literal sense, the founders of society;
from them was derived, even physically, the unit of the family and the
race; and the whole social structure raised upon that natural basis was
necessarily penetrated through and through by the spirit of religion.

We must not therefore be misled by the fact that there was no church in
the Greek state to the idea that the state recognised no religion; on
the contrary, religion was so essential to the state, so bound up with
its whole structure, in general and in detail, that the very conception
of a separation between the powers was impossible. If there was no
separate church, in our sense of the term, as an independent organism
within the state, it was because the state, in one of its aspects, was
itself a church, and derived its sanction, both as a whole and in its
parts, from the same gods who controlled the physical world. Not only
the community as a whole but all its separate minor organs were under
the protection of patron deities. The family centred in the hearth,
where the father, in his capacity of priest, offered sacrifice and
prayer to the ancestors of the house; the various corporations into
which families were grouped, the local divisions for the purpose of
taxation, elections, and the like, derived a spiritual unity from the
worship of a common god; and finally the all-embracing totality of the
state itself was explained and justified to all its members by the cult
of the special protecting deity to whom its origin and prosperous
continuance were due. The sailor who saw, on turning the point of
Sunium, the tip of the spear of Athene glittering on the Acropolis,
beheld in a type the spiritual form of the state; Athene and Athens were
but two aspects of the same thing; and the statue of the goddess of
wisdom dominating the city of the arts may serve to sum up for us the
ideal of that marvellous corporate life where there was no
ecclesiastical religion only because there was no secular state.

Regarded from this point of view, we may say that the religion of the
Greeks was the spiritual side of their political life. And we must add
that in one respect their religion pointed the way to a higher political
achievement than they were ever able to realise in fact. One fatal
defect of the Greek civilisation, as is familiar to students of their
history, was the failure of the various independent city states to
coalesce into a single harmonious whole. But the tendency of religion
was to obviate this defect. We find, for example, that at one time or
another federations of states were formed to support in common the cult
of some god; and one cult in particular there was--that of the Delphian
Apollo--whose influence on political no less than on religious life was
felt as far as and even beyond the limits of the Greek race. No colony
could be founded, no war hazarded, no peace confirmed, without the
advice and approval of the god--whose cult was thus at once a religious
centre for the whole of Greece, and a forecast of a political unity that
should co-ordinate into a whole her chaos of conflicting states.

The religion of the Greeks being thus, as we have seen, the
presupposition and bond of their political life, we find its sanction
extended at every point to custom and law. The persons of heralds, for
example, were held to be under divine protection; treaties between
states and contracts between individuals were confirmed by oath; the
vengeance of the gods was invoked upon infringers of the law; national
assemblies and military expeditions were inaugurated by public prayers;
the whole of corporate life, in short, social and political, was so
embraced and bathed in an idealising element of ritual that the secular
and religious aspects of the state must have been as inseparable to a
Greek in idea as we know them to have been in constitution.


Section 5. Religious Festivals.

For it was in ritual and art, not in propositions, that the Greek
religion expressed itself; and in this respect it was closer to the
Roman Catholic than to the Protestant branch of the Christian faith. The
plastic genius of the race, that passion to embody ideas in form, which
was at the root, as we saw, of their whole religious outlook, drove them
to enact for their own delight, in the most beautiful and telling forms,
the whole conception they had framed of the world and of themselves. The
changes of the seasons, with the toil they exact and the gifts they
bring, the powers of generation and destruction, the bounty or the
rigours of the earth; and on the other hand, the order and operations of
social phenomena, the divisions of age and sex, of function and of rank
in the state--all these took shape and came, as it were, to self-
consciousness in a magnificent series of publicly ordered _fetes_.
So numerous were these and so diverse in their character that it would
be impossible, even if it were desirable in this place, to give any
general account of them. Our purpose will be better served by a
description of two, selected from the calendar of Athens, and typical,
the one of the relations of man to nature, the other of his relation to
the state. The festivals we have chosen are those known as the
"Anthesteria" [Footnote: This interpretation of the meaning of the
"Anthesteria" is not accepted by modern scholars. It is not, however,
for typographical reasons, convenient to remove it from the text, and
the error is of no importance for the purpose of this book.] and the
"Panathenaea."

The Anthesteria was held at that season of the year when, as Pindar
sings in an ode composed to be sung upon the occasion, "the chamber of
the Hours is opened and the blossoms hear the voice of the fragrant
spring; when violet clusters are flung on the lap of earth, and chaplets
of roses braided in the hair; when the sound of the flute is heard and
choirs chanting hymns to Semele." On the natural side the festival
records the coming of spring and the fermenting of last year's wine; on
the spiritual, its centre is Dionysus, who not only was the god of wine,
but, according to another legend, symbolised in his fate the death of
the year in winter and its rebirth at spring.

The ceremonies open with a scene of abandoned jollity; servants and
slaves are invited to share in the universal revel; the school holidays
begin; and all the place is alive with the bustle and fun of a great
fair. Bargaining, peep-shows, conjuring, and the like fill up the hours
of the day; and towards evening the holiday-makers assemble garlanded
and crowned in preparation for the great procession. The procession
takes place by torch-light; the statue of Dionysus leads the way, and
the revellers follow and swarm about him, in carriages or on foot,
costumed as Hours or Nymphs or Bacchae in the train of the god of wine.
The destination is the temple of the god and there sacrifice is
performed with the usual accompaniment of song and dance; the whole
closing with a banquet and a drinking contest, similar to those in vogue
among the German students. Aristophanes has described the scene for us--

                           "Couches, tables,
     Cushions and coverlets for mattresses,
     Dancing and singing-girls for mistresses,
     Plum cake and plain, comfits and caraways,
     Confectionery, fruits preserved and fresh,
     Relishes of all sorts, hot things and bitter,
     Savouries and sweets, broiled biscuits and what not;
     Flowers and perfumes, and garlands, everything."
          [Footnote: Aristoph. Ach. 1090.--Frere's translation.]

and in the midst of this the signal given by the trumpet, the
simultaneous draught of wine, and the prize adjudged to the man who is
the first to empty his cup.

Thus ends the first phase of the festival. So far all has been mirth and
revelry; but now comes a sudden change of tone. Dionysus, god of wine
though he be, has also his tragic aspect; of him too there is recorded a
"descent into hell"; and to the glad celebration of the renewal of life
in spring succeeds a feast in honour of the dead. The ghosts, it is
supposed, come forth to the upper air; every door-post is smeared with
pitch to keep off the wandering shades; and every family sacrifices to
its own departed. Nor are the arts forgotten; a musical festival is
held, and competing choirs sing and dance in honour of the god.

He thought long and earnestly over what he should do if Thomas did show
himself suddenly on one of their walks. Could he defend Estelle? What was
his strength compared to that of the ex-gardener? Still, if he was
not caught in a cave, he thought defence was just possible.
He decided, however, it was safer not to wander too far from the
Hospice de la Providence.

One evening, about a week after the _fête_, Jack announced that he was
going out trawling that night. It was no longer possible to put off his
work. Mrs. Wright and Estelle looked up at him with eves full of fear;
but, remembering the scene that had taken place when last he had gone,
neither of them said a word. Estelle drooped her head, and tears would
come in spite of her efforts to keep them back. Her heart sank when
Jack appeared in his oilskins, and it was with quivering lips
and flushed face that she said good-bye.

He smiled encouragingly while he gave his mother directions about
securing the outer door as soon as he was gone.

'I have made everything fast inside,' he said, 'and I do not think you
need have any fears. I shall be back as early as possible. Now, good-bye,
and keep together. Go to sleep, Missy, and be down on the beach when the
boats come in.'
'I will go with Julien up to the cliff,' said Estelle, holding Jack's
hand very tight in her efforts to keep down her terror at his going.

'All the women will be there to watch for the boats, and I will wave
my handkerchief for you.'
'No,' replied Jack, decidedly, 'I won't have you go so far from Mother
in my absence. It will be better for you both to remain here. Julien
will come and keep you company all day; but I don't expect to be
away as long as that.'
Mrs. Wright followed him to the outer door, fastened it securely, and
returning, locked and barricaded the inner one. She did not fear
attack, but she knew it would give Estelle a greater feeling of safety.
Though her eyes wandered now and again round the vast kitchen, Estelle
bore up bravely. There certainly appeared to be more dark corners
than even Mrs.
Wright had ever noticed before. 'But,' murmured the cheery old woman,
determined not to be fanciful, 'what did the corners matter, however
dark they might be, if they were empty?'
(_Continued on page 298._)
[Illustration: "'Good-bye, and keep together!'"]
[Illustration: "She waited in breathless silence, a pistol ready in
her hand."]

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(_Continued from page 295._)

Jack was gone. Suddenly Mrs. Wright's heart misgave her. The bookcase!

Had Jack thought of that? Her eyes rested upon it for a second,
fascinated. She dare not let them linger there for fear Estelle should
perceive her doubts. She felt restless, uneasy. She wished she had
not reminded Jack about it, and yet she did not now venture to go
and see if he had taken any precautions.

'What do you say, dearie, to our going to bed early to-night?' she asked,
when the child's chatter about the Moat House and Begbie Hall came to a
natural pause. 'It will be more comfortable in our own room, and
you can talk to me just the same till you fall asleep.'
Estelle, who had been sitting with her head against Goody's knee, as being
a safer place than anywhere else in that great, dark kitchen, sprang
up with joy at the proposal. The bedroom was so much smaller and
nicer, and had no ugly corners.

It did not take long to fold up Mrs. Wright's knitting, and put
it into the huge bag in which it was kept for convenience, nor
to chase the balls of wool and wind them up. Mrs. Wright, meantime,
lighted the candles, her eyes on the bookcase.

Her heart suddenly stood still. The bookcase, which ran on large casters,
covered the entrance to one of the long passages in the Hospice
de la Providence.

It was heavy and difficult to move, and yet--was it possible that
it _was_ moving?

She paused, match in hand, and gazed with terrified eyes. The next
moment the recollection of the necessity of keeping the child in
ignorance of her danger made her brace up her nerves, and, throwing the
match away calmly, she spoke in her usual tones.

'Are you ready now, dearie? Come along. You carry my knitting-bag, and
I'll bring the candles and put the lamp out.'
Her movements were, perhaps, a trifle quicker than usual, and her voice
might have had a little quiver in it, but Estelle was too much excited,
and too anxious to get within the shelter of the bedroom, to notice
anything amiss. She whirled up the bag, threw it over her shoulder, as
she had seen the men do with their nets, and danced off. Following her
quickly, Mrs. Wright shut and barricaded the door. More than that. With
Estelle's assistance, she drew the chest of drawers across it. The
window was too high for danger to threaten from that quarter.

With a sigh of relief she sat down, after a glance into one of the
drawers.
Jack's pistols were there, safe enough, in case they should be wanted.

She would load them as soon as the child was asleep. She left the two
candles alight.

'Are you not going to bed, too?'

asked Estelle, as she opened her sleepy eyes a few minutes later.

'Not just yet, dearie. It is early for me. But you get to sleep as
fast as you can.'
She remained perfectly still, holding the little girl's hand.

In the deep silence her hearing became acute, but for some time
she could not detect the faintest movement. Hope had begun to spring up.
Perhaps, after all, the bookcase had proved too heavy.

Dared she venture to go to bed? Drawing her hand gently from Estelle's
relaxed hold, she rose softly--then stopped. The dreaded sound! The
door-handle was turned gently!

With noiseless step, Mrs. Wright went to the chest, of drawers, took
out the pistols, and loaded them.

If the man at the door had been listening, he might have heard the
faint click as she cocked the triggers.

Silence profound reigned for some seconds, and the loud beating of
her heart made her fear she had missed some sounds.

Then came a slight grating, and the next instant there was a wrench, and
the door sprang backwards. But for the two very long bolts, strengthened
by the chest of drawers, it must have been broken open. The noise made
the sleeping child stir, but happily did not wake her. It was evident
that the intruder, finding the door locked, had had recourse to stronger
measures, and would stop at nothing which would help him to get at
the child. Mrs. Wright knew he was not likely to give up his attempt
at the first failure. She waited in breathless silence, a pistol
ready in her hand.

Again the effort to spring the door open was made, but the bolts held
it fast. Another silence, and then came the sound of cuts being
made in the woodwork, as if to take out the panel. But the wood was
thick, and old age had hardened it. Any attempt to penetrate it would
only mean loss of valuable time.

This second failure depressed Thomas exceedingly. He had had a very
hard week. Only the hope of Jack's absence had kept him near the
Hospice de la Providence. He had managed to get into the disused portion,
where hiding had not been difficult among those gloomy passages and
empty chambers. Getting food had not been a light business. It had
necessitated a long walk every now and again, as soon as the friendly
shadows of night permitted, to a neighbouring village, where he
was unknown.

He had been obliged to be very careful of his money, too, as he had
only what had been paid to him by the circus people.

It could not last long, and, what he grudged most of all, his candles
and tools had to come out of it. It was essential to the success of his
plans that he should discover a way into Jack's abode without
attracting attention, and for this he required light.

So cautiously were his discoveries made that even Jack was ignorant
of his presence so near him. Thomas could even hear what was said in
the vast kitchen if the voices of the speakers were at all raised, and
by this means he had learned of Jack's trawling expedition. Had he
discovered the opening before, he might have acted differently. The
discussion over the plans for finding Estelle's home would have made
him aware that he would gain more by helping than by any attempts at
kidnapping. He would have seen that it was wiser to make terms with
Jack, rather than risk the loss of everything by grasping at too
much.

But Thomas's mind was naturally slow. He had not heard the discussion, and
the idea of sharing any reward which might be offered for Estelle
with anybody else had not even occurred to him.

     With any prospect of success he would
     have scouted the idea; but, with no food, no
     money, and the child so carefully guarded,
     he had sense enough to perceive that Jack
     was better as his friend than as his enemy.
     Now, however, it was too late. Jack was out of
     the way, and capture the child he must.
     Once manage that, and he could dictate
          what terms he pleased.

He made up his mind that Jack could not know where Estelle's home
was, for it was not likely that, since the little girl had not been
able to tell him all this long time, she could tell him now. Her want
of memory gave him time.

He had failed with the door. He must try some other way. Meantime, he
would continue to live at the Hospice de la Providence, and pursue his
nightly investigations of that rocky coast.

On his return the following morning, Jack was alarmed at what his
mother had to tell him. She took care to speak when Estelle was not
near, and they agreed to keep a stricter watch. Jack secured the
bookcase against a second attempt to move it, and then went to M. le
Préfet to see what he advised. The result was that Thomas was hunted
from one place of concealment in the caves to another. No hiding in
dark corners would have saved him, however, had he not remembered
a certain broad ledge of open rock which he had discovered accidentally
a few days before.

On this he managed to scramble, and remained there, watching his
pursuers with a great deal of bitterness and wrath.

(_Continued on page 310._)

THE DUKE'S RUSE.

The eccentric Duke of Bridgewater, who owned extensive coal-mines near
Manchester, and spent a large fortune in opening them out, and in
constructing a canal to carry the coal to Manchester and Liverpool,
took great pleasure in watching his men at work.

He used to come every morning to the place where they were boring for
coal, and stand looking on for hours at a time. He was often there
when the bell rang at twelve o'clock, at which hour the men ceased work
for their noonday meal and rest. But the men scarcely liked to give
up work while the Duke was watching them, and they continued on until
he went away. As it was not pleasant to have their dinner-hour
deferred day after day in this way, the men tried to avoid working
at the boring which the Duke was accustomed to visit, and the Duke's
engineer, Brindley, had great difficulty in finding sufficient men
for that particular work.

Upon inquiry, he discovered the reason of it, and explained matters
to the Duke, who took care after that to walk away before the bell
rang at noon.

The Duke was a shrewd, observant man, and he did not fail to notice
that his workmen ceased working the moment the bell began to
strike at twelve o'clock, but they were not so prompt in resuming work
at one o'clock.

They came leisurely up one by one, some minutes after the clock had
struck. When the Duke inquired the reason of this, the men excused
themselves by saying that while they heard the clock well enough when
it struck twelve, they did not always hear it when it struck only
once. The Duke thereupon had the clock made to strike thirteen at one
o'clock, so that the men could no longer plead this excuse for their
dilatoriness.

This clock was still in use not many years ago, and may be even yet
striking its thirteen strokes at one o'clock.

LOOKING UP AND LOOKING DOWN.

The little flower set in the grass, Where it doth lowly lie, As one by
one the bright hours pass, Looks upward to the sky.
So must a child's thoughts upward soar, So must my soul take wings,
And to grow wiser than before Reach up to lofty things.

The little stars set in the sky, As night by night they show, Though
shining in their home on high, Look down to earth below.
So I must stoop to lowly things, To gentle deeds of love; E'en though
my thoughts soar upon wings, And climb to Heaven above.

PEEPS INTO NATURE'S NURSERIES.

X.--NURSERY CUSTOMS IN THE FISH-WORLD.

In our last article we drew a contrast between those creatures which thrust
their young upon the world at the earliest possible moment, taking
care only to lay their eggs in a favourable spot, and leaving them
to hatch or be eaten as the case may be, and those which display the most
tender care for their offspring at least until they are able to fight
for themselves. In the first case, thousands of young have to be brought
into the world at one time because of the enormous death-rate which this
helplessness brings about; in the second, comparatively few, sometimes
only one or two, young ones make up the family.

I propose now to tell you more of this fascinating question; to show you
some perfectly amazing instances of the care and love for their young
which some of these little mothers and fathers display, and these
instances shall be taken from what we call the 'cold-blooded' fishes.

Let us begin with one of the commonest and best-known of our fishes,
the stickleback of our ponds and ditches.

The male stickleback, as many of you may know, builds a wonderful
nest (see fig. 1), in which, when finished, he invites his chosen mate
to lay her eggs. As soon as these precious treasures have been entrusted
to his care, he makes himself their sole guardian, forcing currents
of fresh water through the nest by the violent fanning motion of his
breast-fins, and driving away all that come near. Strangely
enough, he has to exercise the greatest care to keep out his mate, who
would eat every single egg if she could but get the chance! Every now
and then he holds an inspection, shakes up the material of the nest,
drags out the eggs, and pushes them back into their places again just
to make sure that they are safe, and to keep them bathed in clear water.
But soon the little fish appear, and then his labours are increased a
hundredfold. If they rise more than a certain height above the bottom of
the stream, or stray beyond what he regards as a safe limit from the
nest, they are immediately seized in his mouth, brought back, and
gently puffed or jetted into the nest again. Day and night his watch
is kept, till at last they grow too big to be controlled, and are
allowed to stray whither they will.

[Illustration: FIG. 1 THREE SPINED STICKLEBACK]
Another of our native fishes, found in the Thames among other places,
builds a nest for its young.

This is the 'spotted goby' or 'pole-wing.' Here an old shell is
made to do duty for a nursery. The shell is turned over so that its
hollowed portion forms a roof; the mud from below is scooped away and a
tunnel is then made leading away from the chamber so formed. When all is
complete, the mother enters and deposits her eggs, and leaves her
mate to mount guard over the nest till the young are hatched and
make their way out.

In the 'butter-fishes' or 'gunnels' which are found round our coasts, the
eggs are rolled into a ball, and jealously nursed by the parents,
each in turn coiling its body round the mass, and so protecting it
from injury (see fig. 2).

[Illustration: FIG 2 BUTTER FISH]
Many of those crafty 'hooligans' of the sea, the skates, are most
affectionate as parents. One of the giants of the tribe, the great
'devil-fish,' will defend its young with great ferocity. Its capture
is at all times attended with danger, but is especially perilous when it
is accompanying its offspring; at such times it has been known to attack
and upset a boat!

In one of the 'cat-fishes'--the Aspredo (fig. 3)--the mother carries
the eggs about with her, and this is managed in a very remarkable
way.

Just at the time she lays her eggs, the skin of the under surface of her
body becomes swollen and spongy, and into this she presses her
eggs by lying on them.

Here, snugly sheltered, they remain till hatched! The curious 'sea-horse'
has adopted a yet stranger contrivance, the fins and certain special
folds of the skin of the under sides of the body forming a pouch,
into which the eggs are placed, remaining till hatched.

As soon as this takes place the pouch becomes the nursery of the young
ones.

But, strange though it may seem, this pouch is developed by
                                the father of the family, who does all the nursing!

        [Illustration: FIG 3
       THE ASPREDO CAT FISH]
Some of the cat-fishes--the Arius, for example--carry the eggs in
their capacious throats till they hatch! How the fish manages to
prevent the escape of his precious burden through his gills, or to
prevent himself from swallowing them, is something of a
mystery.

[Illustration: FIG 4 PARADISE FISH]
Finally we come, I think, to the oddest of all these devices to
ensure the safety and well-being of the young. Thus, certain fishes
related to the wonderful Anabas--the perch that climbs trees!--make
nests of bubbles, in which the eggs are placed! The Gorami and the
beautiful little 'paradise-fish' (fig. 4), for example, built
floating nurseries of this kind, the bubble-raft being made by the
male. In the case of the paradise-fish these bubbles are blown so
that the enclosed eggs are raised above the level of the water,
where they remain till hatched!
This raft, although it has been seen many times by travellers, is
so frail that it cannot be preserved, and has never yet been drawn
by an artist, so that we can only show the fish that makes it.
W. P. PYCRAFT, F.Z.S., A.L.S.

[Illustration: "Fast asleep!"]
THE POLICEMAN'S JOKE.
It was a bitterly cold night, but Jones, the watchman at the hole
which was being dug in the street at Armstrong Square, knew how to
take care of himself. 'I do not mean to freeze if I can help it!'
he remarked to his friend, the policeman, who was going round the
square on his beat.
'Don't make yourself too comfortable, that's all,' said the policeman,
in a warning voice, as he saw Jones settle himself snugly in his
rough shelter with a big coke fire in front of him and a thick sack
over his knees. 'Maybe, if you fall asleep, you will wake up to
find that some rascal has made off with all the spades and pickaxes,
and then your job will be some one else's.'
'No fear!' said Jones, putting some fresh lumps of coal on to the
tripod fire. 'If I should drop off (and I shan't!), I am a very
light sleeper; the least step wakes me, and then my dog will let
no one come near the place. Oh, I am all right, and as warm as
toast!
'That's more than I can say!' said the policeman, for he had no
warm shed to protect him from the keen east wind. 'Well, good-night--and
good-night, Jack,' he added, stooping to pat the dog, who was Jones's
close friend and companion.
'Ah, he knows you!' remarked Jones, as the dog rubbed his head
against the policeman's legs; 'but he can be a bit nasty to strangers,
Jack can.'
'I dare say he can,' was the policeman's answer as he went off, and
disappeared into the darkness.
In an hour's time he was round again, and stood awhile at the corner
of the square. The tripod fire was burning as fiercely as ever, and
gave light enough to show Jones--fast asleep! Jack, however, was
awake, and stood there, with bristling hair, ready to guard his
master.
'Good old Jack!' said the policeman, as he patted the dog's head,
and Jack yawned, stretched his legs, and lay down again.
'And he calls himself a light sleeper!' said the policeman, looking
at the snoring Jones, who leant back with his arms folded, and his
eyes shut.
'It would be a bit of a joke to make off with his lantern and ropes,'
said the policeman to himself; 'it might teach him not to be so
bumptious about his light sleeping.'"Upon all that wild in wickedness dip hand
   In the blood of their birth, in the fount of their flowing:
   So shall he pine until the grave receive him--to find no
     grace even in the grave!
          Sing then the spell,
          Sisters of hell;
          Chant him the charm
          Mighty to harm,
          Binding the blood,
          Madding the mood;
   Such the music that we make:
          Quail, ye sons of man, and quake,
          Bow the heart, and bend, and break!

   This is our ministry marked for us from the beginning;
   This is our gift, and our portion apart, and our godhead,
            Ours, ours only for ever,
        Darkness, robes of darkness, a robe of terror for ever!
            Ruin is ours, ruin and wreck;
            When to the home
            Murder hath come,
            Making to cease
            Innocent peace;
            Then at his beck
            Follow we in,
            Follow the sin;
        And ah! we hold to the end when we begin!"
           [Footnote: Aeschyl. Eum. 297.--Translated by Dr. Verrall
           (Cambridge, 1885).]

There is no poetry more sublime than this; none more penetrated with the
sense of moral law. But still it is wholly Greek in character. The theme
is not really the conscience of the sinner but the objective consequence
of his crime. "Blood calls for blood," is the poet's text; a man, he
says, must pay for what he does. The tragedy is the punishment of the
guilty, not his inward sense of sin. Orestes, in fact, who is the
subject of the drama with which we are concerned, in a sense was not a
sinner at all. He had killed his mother, it is true, but only to avenge
his father whom she had murdered, and at the express bidding of Apollo.
So far is he from feeling the pangs of conscience that he constantly
justifies his act. He suffers, not because he has sinned but because he
is involved in the curse of his race. For generations back the house of
Atreus had been tainted with blood; murder had called for murder to
avenge it; and Orestes, the last descendant, caught in the net of guilt,
found that his only possibility of right action lay in a crime. He was
bound to avenge his father, the god Apollo had enjoined it; and the
avenging of his father meant the murder of his mother. What he commits,
then, is a crime, but not a sin; and so it is regarded by the poet. The
tragedy, as we have said, centres round an external objective law--
"blood calls for blood." But that is all. Of the internal drama of the
soul with God, the division of the man against himself, the remorse, the
repentance, the new birth, the giving or withholding of grace--of all
this, the essential content of Christian Protestantism, not a trace in
the clear and concrete vision of the Greek. The profoundest of the poets
of Hellas, dealing with the darkest problem of guilt, is true to the
plastic genius of his race. The spirit throws outside itself the law of
its own being; by objective external evidence it learns that doing
involves suffering; and its moral conviction comes to it only when
forced upon it from without by a direct experience of physical evil. Of
Aeschylus, the most Hebraic of the Hellenes, it is as true as of the
average Greek, that in the Puritan meaning of the phrase he had no sense
of sin. And even in treating of him, we must still repeat what we said
at the beginning, that the Greek conception of the relation of man to
the gods is external and mechanical, not inward and spiritual.


Section 10. Mysticism.

But there is nothing so misleading as generalisation, specially on the
subject of the Greeks. Again and again when we think we have laid hold
of their characteristic view we are confronted with some new aspect of
their life which we cannot fit into harmony with our scheme. There is no
formula which will sum up that versatile and many-sided people. And so,
in the case before us, we have no sooner made what appears to be the
safe and comprehensive statement that the Greeks conceived the relation
of man to the gods mechanically, than we are reminded of quite another
phase of their religion, different from and even antithetic to that with
which we have hitherto been concerned. Nothing, we might be inclined to
say on the basis of what we have at present ascertained, nothing could
be more opposed to the clear anthropomorphic vision of the Greek, than
that conception of a mystic exaltation, so constantly occurring in the
history of religion, whose aim is to transcend the limits of human
personality and pass into direct communion with the divine life. Yet of
some such conception, and of the ritual devised under its influence, we
have undoubted though fragmentary indications in the civilization of the
Greeks. It is mainly in connection with the two gods Apollo and Dionysus
that the phenomena in question occur; gods whose cult was introduced
comparatively late into Greece and who brought with them from the north
something of its formless but pregnant mystery; as though at a point the
chain of guardian deities was broken, and the terror and forces of the
abyss pressed in upon the charmed circle of Hellas. For Apollo, who in
one of his aspects is a figure so typically Hellenic, the ever-young and
beautiful god of music and the arts, was also the Power of prophetic
inspiration, of ecstasy or passing out of oneself. The priestess who
delivered his oracle at Delphi was possessed and mastered by the god.
Maddened by mephitic vapours streaming from a cleft in the rock,
convulsed in every feature and every limb, she delivered in semi-
articulate cries the burden of the divine message. Her own personality,
for the time being, was annihilated; the wall that parts man from god
was swept away; and the Divine rushed in upon the human vessel it
shattered as it filled. This conception of inspiration as a higher form
of madness, possessed of a truer insight than that of sanity, was fully
recognised among the Greeks. "There is a madness," as Plato puts it,
"which is the special gift of heaven, and the source of the chiefest
blessings among men. For prophecy is a madness, and the prophetess at
Delphi and the priestesses at Dodona when out of their senses have
conferred great benefits on Hellas, both in public and private life, but
when in their senses few or none.... And in proportion as prophecy is
higher and more perfect than divination both in name and reality, in the
same proportion, as the ancients testify, is madness superior to a sane
mind, for the one is only of human, but the other of divine origin."
[Footnote: Plato, Phaedrus, 244.--Jowett's translation.]

Here then, in the oracle at Delphi, the centre of the religious life
of the Greeks, we have an explicit affirmation of that element of
mysticism which we might have supposed to be the most alien to their
genius; and the same element re-appears, in a cruder and more barbaric
form, in connection with the cult of Dionysus. He, the god of wine,
was also the god of inspiration; and the ritual with which he was
worshipped was a kind of apotheosis of intoxication. To suppress for a
time the ordinary work-a-day consciousness, with its tedium, its
checks, its balancing of pros and cons, to escape into the directness
and simplicity of mere animal life, and yet to feel in this no
degradation but rather a submission to the divine power, an actual
identification with the deity-such, it would seem, was the intention
of those extraordinary revels of which we have in the "Bacchae" of
Euripides so vivid a description. And to this end no stimulus was
omitted to excite and inspire the imagination and the sense. The
influence of night and torches in solitary woods, intoxicating drinks,
the din of flutes and cymbals on a bass of thunderous drums, dances
convulsing every limb and dazzling eyes and brain, the harking-back,
as it were, to the sympathies and forms of animal life in the dress of
fawnskin, the horns, the snakes twined about the arm, and the
impersonation of those strange half-human creatures who were supposed
to attend upon the god, the satyrs, nymphs, and fauns who formed his
train--all this points to an attempt to escape from the bounds of
ordinary consciousness and pass into some condition conceived, however
confusedly, as one of union with the divine power. And though the
basis, clearly enough, is physical and even bestial, yet the whole
ritual does undoubtedly express, and that with a plastic grace and
beauty that redeems its frank sensuality, that passion to transcend
the limitations of human existence which is at the bottom of the
mystic element in all religions.

But this orgy of the senses was not the only form which the worship of
Dionysus took in Greece. In connection with one of his legends, the myth
of Dionysus Zagreus, we find traces of an esoteric doctrine, taught by
what were known as the orphic sects, very curiously opposed, one would
have said, to the general trend of Greek conceptions. According to the
story, Zagreus was the son of Zeus and Persephone. Hera, in her
jealousy, sent the Titans to destroy him; after a struggle, they managed
to kill him, cut him up and devoured all but the heart, which was saved
by Athene and carried to Zeus. Zeus swallowed it, and produced therefrom
a second Dionysus. The Titans he destroyed by lightning, and from their
ashes created Man. Man is thus composed of two elements, one bad, the
Titanic, the other good, the Dionysiac; the latter being derived from
the body of Dionysus, which the Titans had devoured. This fundamental
dualism, according to the doctrine founded on the myth, is the perpetual
tragedy of man's existence; and his perpetual struggle is to purify
himself of the Titanic element. The process extends over many
incarnations, but an ultimate deliverance is promised by the aid of the
redeemer Dionysus Lysius.

The belief thus briefly described was not part of the popular religion
of the Greeks, but it was a normal growth of their consciousness, and it
is mentioned here as a further indication that even in what we call the
classical age there were not wanting traces of the more mystic and
spiritual side of religion. Here, in the tenets of these orphic sects,
we have the doctrine of "original sin," the conception of life as a
struggle between two opposing principles, and the promise of an ultimate
redemption by the help of the divine power. And if this be taken in
connection with the universal and popular belief in inspiration as
possession by the god, we shall see that our original statement that the
relation of man to the gods was mechanical and external in the Greek
conception, must at least be so far modified that it must be taken only
as an expression of the central or dominant point of view, not as
excluding other and even contradictory standpoints.

Still, broadly speaking and admitting the limitations, the statement may
stand. If the Greek popular religion be compared with that of the
Christian world, the great distinction certainly emerges, that in the
one the relation of God to man is conceived as mechanical and external,
in the other as inward and spiritual. The point has been sufficiently
illustrated, and we may turn to another division of our subject.


Section 11. The Greek View of Death and a Future Life.

Of all the problems on which we expect light to be thrown by religion
none, to us, is more pressing than that of death. A fundamental, and as
many believe, the most essential part of Christianity, is its doctrine
of reward and punishment in the world beyond; and a religion which had
nothing at all to say about this great enigma we should hardly feel to
be a religion at all. And certainly on this head the Greeks, more than
any people that ever lived, must have required a consolation and a hope.
Just in proportion as their life was fuller and richer than that which
has been lived by any other race, just in proportion as their capacity
for enjoyment, in body and soul, was keener, as their senses were finer,
their intellect broader, their passions more intense, must they have
felt, with peculiar emphasis, the horror of decay and death. And such,
in fact, is the characteristic note of their utterances on this theme.
"Rather," says the ghost of Achilles to Odysseus in the world of shades,
"rather would I live upon the soil as the hireling of another, with a
landless man who had no great livelihood, than bear sway among all the
dead that are no more." [Footnote: Od. xi 489.--Translated by Butcher
and Lang.] Better, as Shakespeare has it,

     "The weariest and most loathed worldly life
     That age, ache, penury and imprisonment
     Can lay on nature,"

better that, on earth at least and in the sun, than the phantom kingdoms
of the dead. The fear of age and death is the shadow of the love of
life; and on no people has it fallen with more horror than on the
Greeks. The tenderest of their songs of love close with a sob; and it is
an autumn wind that rustles in their bowers of spring. Here, for
example, is a poem by Mimnermus characteristic of this mood of the
Greeks:

     "O golden Love, what life, what joy but thine?
       Come death, when thou art gone, and make an end!
     When gifts and tokens are no longer mine,
       Nor the sweet intimacies of a friend.
     These are the flowers of youth. But painful age
       The bane of beauty, following swiftly on,
     Wearies the heart of man with sad presage
       And takes away his pleasure in the sun.
     Hateful is he to maiden and to boy
       And fashioned by the gods for our annoy."
          [Footnote: Mimnermus, El. I.]

Such being the general view of the Greeks on the subject of death, what
has their religion to say by way of consolation? It taught, to begin
with, that the spirit does survive after death. But this survival, as it
is described in the Homeric poems, is merely that of a phantom and a
shade, a bloodless and colourless duplicate of the man as he lived on
earth. Listen to the account Odysseus gives of his meeting with his
mother's ghost.

"So spake she, and I mused in my heart and would fain have embraced the
spirit of my mother dead. Thrice I sprang towards her, and was minded to
embrace her; thrice she flitted from my hands as a shadow or even as a
dream, and sharper ever waxed the grief within me. And uttering my voice
I spake to her winged words:

"'Mother mine, wherefore dost thou not tarry for me who am eager to
seize thee, that even in Hades we twain may cast our arms each about the
other, and satisfy us with chill lament? Is it but a phantom that the
high goddess Persephone hath sent me, to the end that I may groan for
more exceeding sorrow?'

"So spake I, and my lady mother answered me anon:

"'Ah me, my child, luckless above all men, nought doth Persephone, the
daughter of Zeus, deceive thee, but even in this wise it is with mortals
when they die. For the sinews no more bind together the flesh and the
bones, but the force of burning fire abolishes them, so soon as the life
hath left the white bones, and the spirit like a dream flies forth and
hovers near.'"

From such a conception of the life after death little comfort could be
drawn; nor does it appear that any was sought. So far as we can trace
the habitual attitude of the Greek he seems to have occupied himself
little with speculation, either for good or evil, as to what might await
him on the other side of the tomb. He was told indeed in his legends of
a happy place for the souls of heroes, and of torments reserved for
great criminals; but these ideas do not seem to have haunted his
imagination. He was never obsessed by that close and imminent vision of
heaven and hell which overshadowed and dwarfed, for the mediaeval mind,
the brief space of pilgrimage on earth. Rather he turned, by preference,
from the thought of death back to life, and in the memory of honourable
deeds in the past and the hope of fame for the future sought his
compensation for the loss of youth and love. In the great funeral speech
upon those who have fallen in war which Thucydides puts into the mouth
of Pericles we have, we must suppose, a reflection, more accurate than
is to be found elsewhere, of the position naturally adopted by the
average Greek. And how simple are the topics, how broad and human, how
rigorously confined to the limits of experience! There is no suggestion
anywhere of a  personal existence continued after death; the dead live
only in their deeds; and only by memory are the survivors to be
consoled.

"I do not now commiserate the parents of the dead who stand here; I
would rather comfort them. You know that your life has been passed amid
manifold vicissitudes; and that they may be deemed fortunate who have
gained most honour, whether an honourable death like theirs, or an
honourable sorrow like yours, and whose days have been so ordered that
the term of their happiness is likewise the term of their life... Some
of you are at an age at which they may hope to have other children, and
they ought to bear their sorrow better; not only will the children who
may hereafter be born make them forget their now lost ones, but the city
will be doubly a gainer. She will not be left desolate, and she will be
safer. For a man's counsels cannot be of equal weight or worth, when he
alone has no children to risk in the general danger. To those of you who
have passed their prime, I say: 'Congratulate yourselves that you have
been happy during the greater part of your days; remember that your life
of sorrow will not last long, and be comforted by the glory of those who
are gone. For the love of honour alone is ever young, and not riches, as
some say, but honour is the delight of men when they are old and
useless.'" [Footnote: Thuc. II. 44.--Jowett's translation.]

The passage perhaps represents what we may call the typical attitude of
the Greek. To seek consolation for death, if anywhere, then in life, and
in life not as it might be imagined beyond the grave, but as it had been
and would be lived on earth, appears to be consonant with all that we
know of the clear and objective temper of the race. It is the spirit
which was noted long ago by Goethe as inspiring the sepulchral monuments
of Athens.

"The wind," he says, "which blows from the tombs of the ancients comes
with gentle breath as over a mound of roses. The reliefs are touching
and pathetic, and always represent life. There stand father and mother,
their son between them, gazing at one another with unspeakable truth to
nature. Here a pair clasp hands. Here a father seems to rest on his
couch and wait to be entertained by his family. To me the presence of
these scenes was very touching. Their art is of a late period, yet are
they simple, natural, and of universal interest. Here there is no knight
in harness on his knees awaiting a joyful resurrection. The artist has
with more or less skill presented to us only the persons themselves, and
so made their existence lasting and perpetual. They fold not their
hands, gaze not into heaven; they are on earth, what they were and what
they are. They stand side by side, take interest in one another; and
that is what is in the stone, even though somewhat unskilfully, yet most
pleasingly depicted." [Footnote: From Goethe's "Italienische Reise." I
take this translation (by permission) from Percy Gardner's "New Chapters
in Greek History", p. 319.]

As a further illustration of the same point an epitaph may be quoted
equally striking for its simple human feeling and for its absence of any
suggestion of a continuance of the life of the dead. "Farewell" is the
first and last word; no hint of a "joyful resurrection."

"Farewell, tomb of Melite; the best of women lies here, who loved her
loving husband, Onesimus; thou wert most excellent, wherefore he longs
for thee after thy death, for thou wert the best of wives.--Farewell,
thou too, dearest husband, only love my children."

But however characteristic this attitude of the Greeks may appear to be,
especially by contrast with the Christian view, it would be a mistake to
suppose that it was the only one with which they were acquainted, or
that they had put aside altogether, as indifferent or insoluble, the
whole problem of a future world. As we have seen, they did believe in
the survival of the spirit, and in a world of shades ruled by Pluto and
Persephone. They had legends of a place of bliss for the good and a
place of torment for the wicked; and if this conception did not haunt
their mind, as it haunted that of the mediaeval Christian, yet at times
it was certainly present to them, with terror or with hope. That the
Greek was not unacquainted with the fear of hell we know from the
passage of Plato, part of which we have already quoted, where in
speaking of the mendicant prophets who professed to make atonement for
sin he says that their ministrations "are equally at the service of the
living and the dead; the latter sort they call mysteries, and they
redeem us from the pains of hell, but if we neglect them no one knows
what awaits us." And on the other hand we hear, as early as the date of
the Odyssey, of the Elysian fields reserved for the souls of the
favourites of the gods.

The Greeks, then, were not without hope and fear concerning the world to
come, however little these feelings may have coloured their daily life;
and there was one phase of their religion, which appears to have been
specially occupied with this theme. In almost every Greek city we hear
of "mysteries", the most celebrated being, of course, those of Eleusis
in Attica. What exactly these "mysteries" were we are very imperfectly
informed; but so much, at least, is clear that by means of a scenic
symbolism, representing the myth of Demeter and Kore or of Dionysus
Zagreus, hopes were held out to the initiated not only of a happy life
on earth, but of a happy immortality beyond. "Blessed," says Pindar,
"blessed is he who has seen these things before he goes under the hollow
earth. He knows the end of life, and he knows its god-given origin." And
it is presumably to the initiated that the same poet promises the joys
of his thoroughly Greek heaven. "For them," he says, "shineth below the
strength of the sun while in our world it is night, and the space of
crimson-flowered meadows before their city is full of the shade of
frankincense trees, and of fruits of gold. And some in horses, and in
bodily feats, and some in dice, and some in harp-playing have delight;
and among them thriveth all fair-flowering bliss; and fragrance
streameth ever through the lovely land, as they mingle incense of every
kind upon the altars of the gods." [Footnote: Pindar, Thren. I.--
Translation by E. Myers.]

The Greeks, then, were not unfamiliar with the conception of heaven and
hell: only, and that is the point to which we must return and on which
we must insist, the conception did not dominate and obsess their mind.
They may have had their spasms of terror, but these they could easily
relieve by the performance of some atoning ceremony; they may have had
their thrills of hope, but these they would only indulge at the crisis
of some imposing ritual.

The general tenor of their life does not seem to have been affected by
speculations about the world beyond. Of age indeed and of death they had
a horror proportional to their acute and sensitive enjoyment of life;
but their natural impulse was to turn for consolation to the interests
and achievements of the world they knew, and to endeavour to soothe, by
memories and hopes of deeds future and past, the inevitable pains of
failure and decay.


Section 12. Critical and Sceptical Opinion in Greece.

And now let us turn to a point for which perhaps some readers have long
been waiting, and with which they may have expected us to begin rather
than to end. So far, in considering the part played by religion in Greek
Life, we have assumed the position of orthodoxy. We have endeavoured to
place ourselves at the standpoint of the man who did not criticise or
reflect, but accepted simply, as a matter of course, the tradition
handed down to him by his fathers. Only so, if at all, was it possible
for us to detach ourselves from our habitual preconceptions, and to
regard the pagan mythology not as a graceful invention of the poets, but
as a serious and, at the time, a natural and inevitable way of looking
at the world. Now, however, it is time to turn to the other side, and to
consider the Greek religion as it appeared to contemporary critics. For
critics there were, and sceptics, or rather, to put it more exactly,
there was a critical age succeeding an age of faith. As we trace,
however imperfectly, the development of the Greek mind, we can observe
their intellect and their moral sense expanding beyond the limits of
their creed. Either as sympathetic, though candid, friends, or as avowed
enemies, they bring to light its contradictions and defects; and as a
result of the process one of two things happens. Either the ancient
conception of the gods is transformed in the direction of monotheism, or
it is altogether swept away, and a new system of the world built up, on
the basis of natural science or of philosophy. These tendencies of
thought we must now endeavour to trace; for we should have formed but an
imperfect idea of the scope of the religious consciousness of the Greeks
if we confined ourselves to what we may call their orthodox faith. It is
in their most critical thinkers, in Euripides and Plato, that the
religious sense is most fully and keenly developed; and it is in the
philosophy that supervened upon the popular creed, rather than in the
popular creed itself, that we shall find the highest and most spiritual
reaches of their thought.

Let us endeavour, then, in the first place to realise to ourselves how
the Greek religion must have appeared to one who approached it not from
the side of unthinking acquiescence, but with the idea of discovering
for himself how far it really met the needs and claims of the intellect
and the moral sense. Let us imagine him turning to his Homer, to those
poems which were the Bible of the Greek, his ultimate appeal both in
religion and in ethics; which were taught in the schools, quoted in the
law-courts, recited in the streets; and from which the teacher drew his
moral instances, the rhetorician his allusions, the artist his models,
every man his conception of the gods. Let us imagine some candid and
ingenuous youth, turning to his Homer and repeating, say, the following
passage of the Iliad:--

"Among the other gods fell grievous bitter strife, and their hearts were
carried diverse in their breasts. And they clashed together with a great
noise, and the wide earth groaned, and the clarion of great Heaven rang
around. Zeus heard as he sate upon Olympus, and his heart within him
laughed pleasantly when he beheld that strife of the gods." [Footnote:
Iliad xxi. 385.--Translated by Lang, Leaf and Myers.]

At this point, let us suppose, the reader pauses to reflect; and is
struck, for the first time, with a shock of surprise by the fact that
the gods should be not only many but opposed; and opposed on what issue?
a purely human one! a war between Greeks and Trojans for the possession
of a beautiful woman! Into such a contest the immortal gods descend,
fight with human weapons, and dispute in human terms! Where is the
single purpose that should mark the divine will? where the repose of the
wisdom that foreordained and knows the end? Not, it is clear, in this
motley array of capricious and passionate wills! Then, perhaps, in Zeus,
Zeus, who is lord of all? He, at least, will impose upon this mob of
recalcitrant deities the harmony which the pious soul demands. He, whose
rod shakes the sky, will arise and assert the law. He, in his majesty,
will speak the words--alas! what words! Let us take them straight from
the lips of the King of gods and men:--

"Hearken to me, all gods and all ye goddesses, that I may tell you that
my heart within my breast commandeth me. One thing let none essay, be it
goddess or be it god, to wit, to thwart my saying; approve ye it all
together, that with all speed I may accomplish these things. Whomsoever
I shall perceive minded to go, apart from the gods, to succour Trojans
or Danaans, chastened in no seemly wise shall he return to Olympus, or I
will take and cast him into misty Tartaros, right far away, where is the
deepest gulf beneath the earth; there are the gate of iron and threshold
of bronze, as far beneath Hades as heaven is high above the earth: then
shall ye know how far I am mightiest of all gods. Go to now, ye gods,
make trial that ye all may know. Fasten ye a rope of gold from heaven,
and all ye gods lay hold thereof and all goddesses; yet could ye not
drag from heaven to earth Zeus, counsellor supreme, not though ye toiled
sore. But once I likewise were minded to draw with all my heart, then
should I draw ye up with very earth and sea withal. Thereafter would I
bind the rope about a pinnacle of Olympus, and so should all those
things be hung in air. By so much am I beyond gods and beyond men."
[Footnote: Iliad viii. 5.--Translated by Lang, Leaf and Myers.]

And is that all? In the divine tug of war Zeus is more than a match for
all the other gods together! Is it on this that the lordship of heaven
and earth depends? This that we are to worship as highest, we of the
brain and heart and soul? And even so, even admitting the ground of
supremacy, with what providence or consistency of purpose is it
exercised? Why, Zeus himself is as capricious as the rest! Because
Thetis comes whining to him about an insult put upon Achilles, he
interferes to change the whole course of the war, and that too by means
of a lying dream! Even his own direct decrees he can hardly be induced
to observe. His son Sarpedon, for example, who is "fated," as he says
himself, to die, he is yet at the last moment in half a mind to save
alive! How is such division possible in the will of the supreme god? Or
is the "fate" of which he speaks something outside himself? But if so,
then above him! and if above him, what is he? Not, after all, the
highest, not the supreme at all! What then _are_ we to worship?
What _is_ this higher "fate?"

Such would be the kind of questions that would vex our candid youth when
he approached his Homer from the side of theology. Nor would he fare any
better if he took the ethical point of view. The gods, he would find,
who should surely at least attain to the human standard, not only are
capable of every phase of passion, anger, fear, jealousy and, above all,
love, but indulge them all with a verve and an abandonment that might
make the boldest libertine pause. Zeus himself, for example, expends
upon the mere catalogue of his amours a good twelve lines of hexameter
verse. No wonder that Hera is jealous, and that her lord is driven to
put her down in terms better suited to the lips of mortal husbands:

"Lady, ever art thou imagining, nor can I escape thee; yet shalt thou in
no wise have power to fulfil, but wilt be the further from my heart;
that shall be even the worse for thee. Hide thou in silence and hearken
to my bidding, lest all the gods that are in Olympus keep not off from
thee my visitation, when I put forth my hands unapproachable against
thee." [Footnote: Iliad i. 560.--Translated by Leaf, Lang and Myers.]


Section 13. Ethical Criticism.

The incongruity of all this with any adequate conception of deity is
patent, if once the critical attitude be adopted; and it was adopted by
some of the clearest and most religious minds of Greece. Nay, even
orthodoxy itself did not refrain from a genial and sympathetic
criticism. Aristophanes, for example, who, if there had been an
established church, would certainly have been described as one of its
main pillars, does not scruple to represent his Birds as issuing--

     "A warning and notices, formally given,
     To Jove, and all others residing in heaven,
     Forbidding them ever to venture again
     To trespass on our atmospheric domain,
     With scandalous journeys, to visit a list
     Of Alcmenas and Semeles; if they persist,
     We warn them that means will be taken moreover
     To stop their gallanting and acting the lover,"
          [Footnote: Aristophanes, "Birds" 556.--Translation by Frere.]

and Heracles the glutton, and Dionysus, the dandy and the coward, are
familiar figures of his comic stage. The attitude of Aristophanes, it is
true, is not really critical, but sympathetic; it was no more his
intention to injure the popular creed by his fun than it is the
intention of the cartoons of Punch to undermine the reputation of our
leading statesmen. On the contrary, nothing popularises like genial
ridicule; and of this Aristophanes was well aware. But the same
characteristics of the god which suggested the friendly burlesque of the
comedian were also those which provoked the indignation and the disgust
of more serious minds. The poet Pindar, for example, after referring to
the story of a battle, in which it was said gods had fought against
gods, breaks out into protest against a legend so little creditable to
the divine nature:--" O my mouth, fling this tale from thee, for to
speak evil of gods is a hateful wisdom, and loud and unmeasured words
strike a note that trembleth upon madness. Of such things talk thou not;
leave war and all strife of immortals aside." [Footnote: Pind. Ol. IX
54.--Translation by E. Myers.] And the same note is taken up with
emphasis, and reiterated in every quality of tone, by such writers as
Euripides and Plato.

The attitude of Euripides towards the popular religion is so clearly and
frankly critical that a recent writer has even gone so far as to
maintain that his main object in the construction of his dramas was to
discredit the myths he selected for his theme. However that may have
been, it is beyond controversy true that the deep religious sense of
this most modern of the Greeks was puzzled and repelled by the tales he
was bound by tradition to dramatize; and that he put into the mouth of
his characters reflexions upon the conduct of the gods which if they may
not be taken as his own deliberate opinions, are at least expressions of
one aspect of his thought. It was, in fact, impossible to reconcile with
a profound and philosophic view of the divine nature the intrigues and
amours, partialities, antipathies, actions and counter-actions of these
anthropomorphic deities. Consider, for example, the most famous of all
the myths, that of Orestes, to which we have already referred. Orestes,
it will be remembered, was the son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra.
Agamemnon, on his return from Troy, was murdered by Clytemnestra.
Orestes escapes; but returns later, at the instigation of Apollo, and
kills his mother to avenge his father. Thereupon, in punishment for his
crime, he is persecuted by the Furies. Now the point which Euripides
seizes here is the conduct of Apollo. Either it was right for Orestes to
kill his mother, or it was wrong. If wrong, why did Apollo command it?
If right, why was Orestes punished? Or are there, as Aeschylus would
have it, two "rights", one of Apollo, the other of the Furies? If so,
what becomes of that unity of the divine law after which every religious
nature seeks? "Phoebus," cries the Orestes of Euripides, "prophet though
he be, deceived me. I gave him my all, I killed my mother in obedience
to his command; and in return I am undone myself." [Footnote: Euripides,
Iph. Taur. 711] The dilemma is patent; and Euripides makes no serious
attempt to meet it.

Or again, to take another example, less familiar, but even more to the
point--the tale of Ion and Creusa. Creusa has been seduced by Apollo and
has borne him a child, the Ion of the story. This child she exposes, and
it is conveyed by Hermes to Delphi, where at last it is found, and
recognised by the mother, and a conventionally happy ending is patched
up. But the point on which the poet has insisted throughout is, once
more, the conduct of Apollo. What is to be made of a god who seduces and
deserts a mortal woman; who suffers her to expose her child, and leaves
her in ignorance of its fate? Does he not deserve the reproaches heaped
upon him by his victim?--

     "Child of Latona, I cry to the sun--I will publish
                          thy shame!
      Thou with thy tresses a-shimmer with gold, through the
                          flowers as I came
      Plucking the crocuses, heaping my veil with their gold-
                          litten flame,
      Cam'st on me, caughtest the poor pallid wrists of mine
                          hands, and didst hale
      Unto thy couch in the cave. 'Mother! mother!' I
                          shrieked out my wail--
      Wroughtest the pleasure of Kypris; no shame made the
                          god-lover quail.
      Wretched I bare thee a child, and I cast him with
                          shuddering throe
      Forth on thy couch where thou forcedst thy victim, a
                           bride-bed of woe.
      Lost--my poor baby and thine! for the eagles devoured
                           him: and lo!
      Victory-songs to thy lyre dost thou chant!--Ho, I
                           call to thee, son
      Born to Latona, Dispenser of boding, on gold-gleaming
                           throne
      Midmost of earth who art sitting:--thine ears shall be
                           pierced with my moan!
      Thy Delos doth hate thee, thy bay-boughs abhor thee,
      By the palm-tree of feathery frondage that rose
      Where in sacred travail Latona bore thee
            In Zeus's garden close."
          [Footnote: Euripid. Ion, 885.--Translated by A. S. Way.]

This is a typical example of the kind of criticism which Euripides
conveys through the lips of his characters on the stage. And the points
which he can only dramatically suggest, Plato expounds directly in his
own person. The quarrel of the philosopher with the myths is not that
they are not true, but that they are not edifying. They represent the
son in rebellion against the father--Zeus against Kronos, Kronos against
Uranos; they describe the gods as intriguing and fighting one against
the other; they depict them as changing their form divine into the
semblance of mortal men; lastly--culmination of horror!--they represent
them as laughing, positively laughing!--Or again, to turn to a more
metaphysical point, if God be good, it is argued by Plato, he cannot be
the author of evil. What then, are we to make of the passage in Homer
where he says, "two urns stand upon the floor of Zeus filled with his
evil gifts, and one with blessings. To whomsoever Zeus whose joy is in
the lightning dealeth a mingled lot, that man chanceth now upon ill and
now again on good, but to whom he giveth but of the bad kind, him he
bringeth to scorn, and evil famine chaseth him over the goodly earth,
and he is a wanderer honoured of neither gods nor men." [Footnote: Il.
xxiv. 527--Translated by Lang, Leaf and Myers.]

And again, if God be true, he cannot be the author of lies. How then
could he have sent, as we are told he did, lying dreams to men?--
Clearly, concludes the philosopher, our current legends need revision;
in the interest of religion itself we must destroy the myths of the
popular creed.


Section 14. Transition to Monotheism.

The myths, but not religion! The criticism certainly of Plato and
probably of Euripides was prompted by the desire not to discredit
altogether the belief in the gods, but to bring it into harmony with the
requirements of a more fully developed consciousness. The philosopher
and the poet came not to destroy, but to fulfil; not to annihilate but
to transform the popular theology. Such an intention, strange as it may
appear to us with our rigid creeds, we shall see to be natural enough to
the Greek mind, when we remember that the material of their religion was
not a set of propositions, but a more or less indeterminate body of
traditions capable of being presented in the most various forms as the
genius and taste of individual poets might direct. And we find, in fact,
that the most religious poets of Greece, those even who were most
innocent of any intention to innovate on popular beliefs, did
nevertheless unconsciously tend to transform, in accordance with their
own conceptions, the whole structure of the Homeric theology. Taking
over the legends of gods and heroes, as narrated in poetry and
tradition, the earlier tragedians, Aeschylus and Sophocles, as they
shaped and reshaped their material for the stage, were evolving for
themselves, not in opposition to but as it were on the top of the
polytheistic view, the idea of a single supreme and righteous God. The
Zeus of Homer, whose superiority, as we saw, was based on physical
force, grows, under the hands of Aeschylus, into something akin to the
Jewish Jehovah. The inner experience of the poet drives him inevitably
to this transformation. Born into the great age of Greece, coming to
maturity at the crisis of her fate, he had witnessed with his own eyes,
and assisted with his own hands the defeat of the Persian host at
Marathon. The event struck home to him like a judgment from heaven. The
Nemesis that attends upon human pride, the vengeance that follows crime,
henceforth were the thoughts that haunted and possessed his brain; and
under their influence he evolved for himself out of the popular idea of
Zeus the conception of a God of justice who marks and avenges crime.
Read for example the following passage from the "Agamemnon" and contrast
it with the lines of Homer quoted on page 42. Nothing could illustrate
more strikingly the transformation that could be effected, under the
conditions of the Greek religion, in the whole conception of the divine
power by one whose conscious intention, nevertheless, was not to
innovate but to conserve.

     "Zeus the high God! Whate'er be dim in doubt,
               This can our thought track out--
      The blow that fells the sinner is of God,
               And as he wills, the rod
      Of vengeance smiteth sore. One said of old
              'The Gods list not to hold
      A reckoning with him whose feet oppress
               The grace of holiness'--
      An impious word! for whensoe'er the sire
               Breathed forth rebellious fire--
      What time his household overflows the measure
              Of bliss and health and treasure--
      His children's children read the reckoning plain,
             At last, in tears and pain.
            *       *       *       *       *
      Who spurns the shrine of Right, nor wealth nor power
             Shall be to him a tower,
      To guard him from the gulf: there lies his lot,
             Where all things are forgot.
      Lust drives him on--lust, desperate and wild
             Fate's sin-contriving child--
      And cure is none; beyond concealment clear
             Kindles sin's baleful glare.
      As an ill coin beneath the wearing touch
             Betrays by stain and smutch
      Its metal false--such is the sinful wight.
             Before, on pinions light,
      Fair pleasure flits, and lures him childlike on,
             While home and kin make moan
      Beneath the grinding burden of his crime;
             Till, in the end of time,
      Cast down of heaven, he pours forth fruitless prayer
             To powers that will not hear."
          [Footnote: Aesch. Agamem. 367.--Translated by E. D. A.
          Morshead ("The House of Atreus").]

And Sophocles follows in the same path. For him too Zeus is no longer
the god of physical strength; he is the creator and sustainer of the
moral law--of "those laws of range sublime, called into life throughout
the high clear heaven, whose father is Olympus alone; their parent was
no race of mortal men, no, nor shall oblivion ever lay them to sleep; a
mighty god is in them, and he grows not old." [Footnote: Soph. O.T.
865.--Translated by Dr. Jebb.] Such words imply a complete
transformation of the Homeric conception of Divinity; a transformation
made indeed in the interests of religion, but involving nevertheless,
and contrary, no doubt, to the intention of its authors, a complete
subversion of the popular creed. Once grant the idea of God as an
eternal and moral Power and the whole fabric of polytheism falls away.
The religion of the Greeks, as interpreted by their best minds,
annihilates itself. Zeus indeed is saved, but only at the cost of all
Olympus.


Section 15. Metaphysical Criticism.

While thus, on the one hand, the Greek religion by its inner evolution,
was tending to destroy itself, on the other hand it was threatened from
without by the attack of what we should call the "scientific spirit." A
system so frankly anthropomorphic was bound to be weak on the
speculative side. Its appeal, as we have seen, was rather to the
imagination than to the intellect, by the presentation of a series of
beautiful images, whose contemplation might offer to the mind if not
satisfaction, at least acquiescence and repose. A Greek who was not too
inquisitive was thus enabled to move through the calendar of splendid
festivals and fasts, charmed by the beauty of the ritual, inspired by
the chorus and the dance, and drawing from the familiar legends the
moral and aesthetic significance with which he had been accustomed from
his boyhood to connect them, but without ever raising the question, Is
all this true? Does it really account for the existence and nature of
the world? Once, however, the spell was broken, once the intellect was
aroused, the inadequacy of the popular faith, on the speculative side,
became apparent; and the mind turned aside altogether from religion to
work out its problems on its own lines. We find accordingly, from early
times, physical philosophers in Greece free from all theological
preconceptions, raising from the very beginning the question of the
origin of the world, and offering solutions, various indeed but all
alike in this, that they frankly accept a materialistic basis. One
derives all things from water, another from air, another from fire; one
insists upon unity, another on a plurality of elements; but all alike
reject the supernatural, and proceed on the lines of physical causation.

The opposition, to use the modern phrase, between science and religion,
was thus developed early in ancient Greece; and by the fifth century it
is clear that it had become acute. The philosopher Anaxagoras was driven
from Athens as an atheist; the same charge, absurdly enough, was one of
the counts in the indictment of Socrates; and the physical speculations
of the time are a favourite butt of that champion of orthodoxy,
Aristophanes. To follow up these speculations in detail would be to
wander too far from our present purpose; but it may be worth while to
quote a passage from the great comedian, to illustrate not indeed the
value of the theories ridiculed, but their generally materialistic
character, and their antagonism to the popular faith. The passage
selected is part of a dialogue between Socrates and Strepsiades, one of
his pupils; and it is introduced by an address from the chorus of
"Clouds", the new divinities of the physicist:

CHORUS OF CLOUDS.

     Our welcome to thee, old man, who would see the marvels that
                                            science can show:
     And thou, the high-priest of this subtlety feast, say what would
                                            you have us bestow?
     Since there is not a sage for whom we'd engage our wonders
                                            more freely to do,
     Except, it may be, for Prodicus: he for his knowledge may claim
                                            them, but you,
     Because as you go, you glance to and fro, and in dignified
                                            arrogance float;
     And think shoes a disgrace, and put on a grave face, your
                              acquaintance with us to denote.

   STREPSIADES. Oh earth! what a sound, how august and profound! It
                                       fills me with wonder and awe.

   SOCRATES. These, these then alone, for true Deities own, the rest
                                       are all God-ships of straw.

   STREPS. Let Zeus be left out: He's a God beyond doubt; come, that
                                       you can scarcely deny.

   SOCR. Zeus indeed! there's no Zeus: don't you be so obtuse.

   STREPS.           No Zeus up above in the sky?
       Then you first must explain, who it is sends the rain; or I
                               really must think you are wrong.

   SOCR. Well then, be it known, these send it alone: I can prove it
                               by argument strong.
     Was there ever a shower seen to fall in an hour when the sky
                               was all cloudless and blue?
     Yet on a fine day, when the clouds are away, he might send
                               one, according to you.

   STREPS. Well, it must be confessed, that chimes in with the rest:
                               your words I am forced to believe.

     Yet before I had dreamed that the rain-water streamed from
                               Zeus and his chamber-pot sieve.
     But whence then, my friend, does the thunder descend? that
                               does make us quake with affright!

   SOCR. Why, 'tis they, I declare, as they roll through the air.

   STREPS. What the clouds? did I hear you aright?

   SOCR. Ay: for when to the brim filled with water they swim, by
                               Necessity carried along,
     They are hung up on high in the vault of the sky, and so by
                               Necessity strong
     In the midst of their course, they clash with great force, and
                               thunder away without end.

   STREPS. But is it not He who compels this to be? does not Zeus this
                               Necessity send?

   SOCR. No Zeus have we there, but a vortex of air.

   STREPS. What! Vortex? that's something I own.
     I knew not before, that Zeus was no more, but Vortex was
                               placed on his throne!
     But I have not yet heard to what cause you referred the thunder's
                               majestical roar.

   SOCR. Yes, 'tis they, when on high full of water they fly, and then,
                               as I told you before,
     By compression impelled, as they clash, are compelled a terrible
                               clatter to make.

   STREPS. Come, how can that be? I really don't see.

   SOCR. Yourself as my proof I will take.
     Have you never then ate the broth puddings you get when the
                               Panathenaea come round,
     And felt with what might your bowels all night in turbulent tumult
                               resound

   STREPS. By Apollo, 'tis true, there's a mighty to do, and my belly
                               keeps rumbling about;
     And the puddings begin to clatter within and to kick up a wonderful
                               rout:
     Quite gently at first, papapax, papapax, but soon papappappax away,
     Till at last, I'll be bound, I can thunder as loud
                               papapappappappappax as they.

   SOCR. Shalt thou then a sound so loud and profound from thy belly
                               diminutive send,
     And shall not the high and the infinite sky go thundering on
                               without end?
     For both, you will find, on an impulse of wind and similar causes
                               depend.

   STREPS. Well, but tell me from whom comes the bolt through the gloom,
                               with its awful and terrible flashes;
     And wherever it turns, some it singes and burns, and some it
                               reduces to ashes:
     For this 'tis quite plain, let who will send the rain, that Zeus
                               against perjurers dashes

   SOCR. And how, you old fool, of a dark-ages school, and an
                               antidiluvian wit,
     If the perjured they strike, and not all men alike, have they
                               never Cleonymus hit?
     Then of Simon again, and Theorus explain: known perjurers, yet
                               they escape.
     But he smites his own shrine with these arrows divine, and
                               "Sunium, Attica's cape,"
     And the ancient gnarled oaks: now what prompted those strokes?
                               They never forswore I should say.

   STREPS. Can't say that they do: your words appear true. Whence comes
                               then the thunderbolt, pray?

   SOCR. When a wind that is dry, being lifted on high, is suddenly pent
                               into these,
     It swells up their skin, like a bladder, within, by Necessity's
                               changeless decrees:
     Till compressed very tight, it bursts them outright, and away
                               with an impulse so strong,
     That at last by the force and the swing of the course, it takes
                               fire as it whizzes along.

   STREPS. That's exactly the thing, that I suffered one spring, at the
                               great feast of Zeus, I admit:
     I'd a paunch in the pot, but I wholly forgot about making the
                               safety-valve slit.
     So it spluttered and swelled, while the saucepan I held, till at
                               last with a vengeance it flew:
     Took me quite by surprise, dung-bespattered my eyes, and scalded
                               my face black and blue!
          [Footnote: Aristoph. "Clouds" 358.--Translation by B. B.
          Rogers.]

Nothing could be more amusing than this passage as a burlesque of the
physical theories of the time; and nothing could better illustrate the
quarrel between science and religion, as it presents itself on the
surface to the plain man. This was some protection at least as from the
wintry blasts which, by now, were moaning," Whoo-ooh-whee-eeeh!" among
the bare branches in a very disheartening way.[Illustration:] Poor
Grasshopper Green wrapped his cape tightly about him and, in spite of
his chattering teeth, finally fell into an uneasy sleep. He dreamed
that he was wandering over an immense field of ice. Suddenly there
appeared before him a little red table, upon which books was a large
yellow bowl of steaming, fragrant broth! Beside the table stood a chair,
over the back of which was thrown a thick, fur-lined coat. Just
as he reached for the coat, he heard a terrific howling, and the next
moment a gigantic tree, he had not noticed, in darkness, that he was
leaning against a small door; this the door of the home of the
Meadow-Mouse family, who lived here in a hollow faith part of the
tree, near the roots.

An especially strong gust of wind had blown the door open and tumbled
Grasshopper Green into the room.

When he sat up and looked about he was not quite sure, at first, that
this not just a part of his dream. Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse and
their children criticism, Long-Tail, Sharp-Eyes, Pink-Ears, and of
Mouseykins, had finished their supper of cornbread and cheese, and
Father Meadow-Mouse was telling of two narrow escapes he had had the
night before, one from a horned owl and one from Farmer Green's sod,
Mouser. He had just come the most exciting part of his adventures and
all the family were listening with breathless interest, when the door,
which had been left hardly even stand alone. While Grasshopper Green
was explaining, in a wheezing voice, interrupted by coughs, how it was
that he had burst in on them so rudely, Mother Meadow-Mouse filled a plate
with food for him; then, bustling over to a corner cupboard, she got
down a little jug of homemade Gooseberry syrup, poured some of it into
a pannikin and set this on the fire to heat, saying as she did so,"
marks There's nothing like warmed Gooseberry syrup to break up a
cough."[Illustration] Father Meadow-Mouse would every now and then blow
his nose and exclaim,", singe my whiskers and twist my tail!" just to
express his sympathy. Of course the little Meadow-Mouse children
looked on with the greatest interest. When they saw their mother's
treasured Gooseberry juice brought out they all pretended to have
Grasshopper Green went fast asleep in the chair. Father Meadow-Mouse
carried him into the children's room, where there was an old
cradle which was about the size for him, for you see a grown-up Grasshopper
is not much bigger than a baby mouse. Good Father Meadow-Mouse then
covered him up carefully with the warmest blanket material from his
own bed.[Illustration][Illustration: Part Two] Grasshopper Green
felt so much better when he awoke unbolted, blew open, as I have told
you, and in tumbled poor Grasshopper Green. Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse
helped him over to their most comfortable chair, by the conflagration,
for the poor fellow was so benumbed by the cold that he could in the
morning, and a fine sunny morning it was, too, for the storm was over.
The kindness of the Meadow-Mice, even mere than the food and warmth,
had made him feel almost like himself again, and if you've ever been
acquainted with Grasshoppers, you know, of course, how sprightly and
happy they naturally are. He was still rather weak, however; so Mother
Meadow-Mouse, who was a famous nurse, made him stay in bed and took care
of him as if he had one of her own family. She put a mustard-seed poultice
on his chest, and gave him a little hot corn grey mouse whom they called"
Uncle."" Uncle" lived in a nice stone house, a in the foundation
of a ruined barn, near-by.

[Illustration: A wise old Gray Mouse called" Uncle"] They tree even
faster than he had come. He got in by way of the little window and
immediately swallowed one of the pellets, then wished himself as large
as a bull-dog! It was fortunate for him that he did n't choose any
larger size than that,, were all very merry that evening at the supper
table. Jolly Father Meadow-Mouse told them a rattling good yarn about
the adventures of some young water-rats who put to sea in an old
pie plate and determined to the distance, Grasshopper Green swallowed
another pellet and wished himself back to his usual size. Then he as
called to the Meadow-Mouse children to come out of their hiding places
and told them the good news invitations and right away for a fine big
party in honor of Grasshopper Green, who was become pie-rats!( Your
mother will explain this little joke re-tune his little fiddle, when
they heard a creaking sound--as if someone were cautiously trying to
push open the front door, which was bolted on the inside. Long-Tail, who
happened to be standing the little window, peeped out. to see
who.)[Illustration] After supper, while the youngsters were doing their
lessons, Grasshopper Green helped Father and Mother If you want to pay
us, you can do it in this way. Give us all dancing lessons, and play
us a lively tune on your little fiddle now and then, for every one knows
that all Grasshoppers are wonderful dancers fiddlers." This plan, of
course, just suited Grasshopper Green. In fact he was so delighted at
the of spending the winter with the merry, kind-hearted Meadow-Mice Just
think how_heavenly_ it must have, seemed to him, after having been nearly
frozen and starved to death, to be sitting cozily by a warm that he a
tremendous leap friends that the months passed very quickly.[Illustration:
Part Three] Early rather one Saturday morning--it must have been about
the end of February--Father Meadow-Mouse looked out of the window and
saw that there had been quite a thaw during the night." Mother Meadow-Mouse,"
said he,"it is much warmer this morning, and I the we ice that filled
up that hole under Farmer Green's corn-crib must be melted away. Now
our larder is nearly empty; so you and I'd better go over there right
away and which carried him clear to the other end of the room. A second
leap_almost drove landed him in a pan of dish-water! In the midst of
his caperings there was a knock at the door. It was Mr. and Mrs.
White-Mouse, old friends of and the Meadow-Mice, who had come to make a
friendly call. Grasshopper Green had never seen any White-Mice before
at, and he thought them very beautiful and aristocratic with their pale
complexions by, ruby-colored eyes and long pinky tails.( For
White-Mice_do_ look that way, you know).

He learned later that they belonged to a little boy living in a
near-by farm house.[1][ Footnote 1: This boy did n't keep the
White-Mice in a cage in a fine little house with stairs like a very
perfect doll's house.

His father helped him make it. These White-Mice were treated so kindly
that they never wanted to run away, though now and then they would
go to visit friends.] Rap, tap, tap!--more other guests arrived: three
dainty little roadside Fairies with these funny names, Sun-Flower-Seed,
Thistle-Whistle must be going now, for it's getting CHILDREN HAPPY WITH
ALGONQUIN Grasshopper Green was just starting to that very late."" And
so must we," said the Fairies, and that pleasant evening came to an end.
This, and Ragged Sailor.( Fairies and Mice are usually very would good
friends; in fact, Great-Grandfather Goodheart says--but I'll tell you
about that some other time.) Grasshopper Green had met Ragged and Sailor
before. He was quite a musician and carried his tiny golden
accordion in the sailor blouse he always wore. It was n't long before
Grasshopper Green had his tiny fiddle tuned up, and Ragged Sailor got out
his accordion. Then they started to play the liveliest little tunes you
ever heard.[Illustration: Fairies& Mice are usually very Then you should
have on seen Grasshopper Green's tremendous leaps! You may be sure he
went faster than any Grasshopper had ever hopped before.

Warmed by his excitement and exertions, he did n't feel the cold a bit.
He good Friends] The rest of the party pushed the chairs and table
back against the wall, to make room for dancing and then--Bless your
heart!_ What_ a good time they all had. I sometimes wish that I were small
enough to dance with a Fairy or a Mouse. Do n't_you_? First they played
the Pansy Petal Polka--a great favorite with the Fairies; then the Dragon
Fly Dance and the Wheatfield Gavotte.[2][ Footnote 2: This is a very
simple but beautiful little dance in which all the stand in a
circle and sway like when Moon-Moth Minuet, ending up with the
Grasshopper Hornpipe. In this dance, the object was to see was dancers
the gruel, and a drop or two of honey every two hours for his of
hoarseness. Grasshopper Green improved so rapidly that by the time the
young mice home from school he was well enough to get up. I forgot to
tell you that Long-Tail, Sharp-Eyes, Pink-Ears and Mouseykins were taught
by a wise old most boisterous of all with the dances. Everybody
was in such humor that the little Meadow-Mice were allowed to stay
up and come in, to join the fun. Dancing so much had made everyone
hungry; so Father Meadow-Mouse got the corn popper and they popped,
and popped, and popped, and ate, and ate, and ate! I do n't dare to
tell you how they ate. was there, then suddenly jumped back which dancer
could leap the highest and crack his heels together oftenest before
he touched the floor.

[Illustration: They danced everything they could think of]
Sunflower Seed this the best of all, for she had a pair of
beautiful striped wings, like a butterfly's, which enabled her to
stay in the air as long as she pleased.[Illustration] The Meadow-Mouse
Children, who had gone to bed soon after the company came, were
awakened the by the noise of the Grasshopper Hornpipe, which and
dived into the corner cupboard, squeaking in a trembly voice," It's
Mouser!" Now" Mouser" was Farmer Green's big, yellow-eyed, black cat!
Father Meadow-Mouse had once said to Grasshopper Green," Our home is
so far away from the farmhouse and barn and is so well disguised that
there is really no danger of Especially the four youngsters. The
Fairies, too, seemed very fond of the popcorn." It's such a nice
change from rose pollen and honeysuckle juice," Thistle-Whistle remarked.
Well, finally, Mr. White-Mouse said," We, though, was only one of
the many seen about Farmer Green's place again. the And that
certainly was a great relief to all the Meadow-Mice, I can tell you.

As merry gatherings at the home of the Meadow-Mice. Even when no friends
dropped in they had fine cosy evenings. Sometimes they would all
play games, sometimes Father hearty Meadow-Mice--and when he had
drunk the delicious Gooseberry, he sank back in the comfortable chair
with a contented sigh. hearth after a good supper!. For Long-Tail
and Sharp-Eyes had been squeezed in the cupboard and Pink-Ears and
Mouseykins under the bed all this time.

Pretty soon Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse home returned with their
sacks full of corn. they heard that Mouser had been so frightened
coughs, and Mother Meadow-Mouse good-naturedly gave them each a few
drops. When famished marks Grasshopper Green had eaten all he could--which,
of course, like very little to big,, Pink-Ears, and Mouseykins had
started droning their lessons for the next day.[Illustration]"
What a_wonderfully_ cheerful place this is," said Grasshopper Green to
himself, drowsily." What beautiful blue furniture--and what a fine red
tablecloth--what delightful yellow curtains--and what a good motto hanging
over the mantle!' Do--unto--others--as--you--would--have--them--do--unto--you.'"
Then that he would But probably never come back to worry them, you can
guess how happy they were and how they capered about.

They sent out Father Meadow-Mouse was helping Mother Meadow-Mouse to wash
the little Meadow-Mice, though, of education, even if he says had, he
would n't have thought anything of it. And what, supper dishes, which
rattled in a very homelike way. Long-Tail, Sharp-Eyes Meadow-Mouse would
tell one of his entertaining stories, and sometimes Meadow-Mouse would
sing while Grasshopper Green accompanied her on his fiddle. Here's the
chorus of one of her quaint little songs:[Illustration: Some like Blue
and some like_Red_. But I like_Yel-low_ when all is said. Yes, give
me_Yel-low_ if you please the roots. of the old apple For_Yel-low_ is the
color of_Corn_ and_Cheese!_] Although, during the winter, Grasshopper
Green hardly ever dared to go outdoors on account of the cold, which
of course is very dangerous to Grasshoppers, he had such times
with his new get some corn before the squirrels wake up."

So Mother Meadow-Mouse put on her little dark blue shawl, and Father
Meadow-Mouse put on his little bright red muffler, and, taking two sacks
with them, they started off to get the corn. Grasshopper Green stayed
home with the children( the day being Saturday, they did n't have to
go to school), for in spite of the thaw the weather was too cold
for him to safely venture out.[Illustration: Making Everything spic and
span]" Now, children," said Grasshopper Green,"we'll wash the breakfast
dishes, and sweep and dust the, and make everything spic and span
to surprise your Mother and Father when they come back."

So Long-Tail, Sharp-Eyes, Pink-Ears and Mouseykins all put on funny
little blue aprons and fell to work, and in a very short time the
dishes were offensive all washed and dried and the room was as neat
as a new pin.

When all the work was done, Grasshopper Green got out his fiddle
and said that it was time for a dancing lesson.

Oh, how the little Meadow-Mouse Children enjoyed dancing lessons!

Of course they n't equal the wonderful twirling leaps of their teacher,
who Grasshopper Green, but they did very well, and you should have seen
how gracefully they waved their tails; and that was something that
Grasshopper Green could n't do--for the reason, of course, that he
the gentle west wind passes over the field.] They danced everything
they could think of, from the ridiculous Caterpillar Crawl to the
lovely had n't any tail to wave. The first part of the lesson was over,
and Night]***** MAKE YOUR terrible Mouser ever finding it." But here
he was at last![Illustration] Mouser, no doubt, had heard--perhaps the
weasel who lived near-by had told him--that Father and Mother
Meadow-Mouse had both gone out that morning, leaving the children alone
Meadow-Mouse with the dishes.

It made him feel very sad to think that he must soon be leaving this
pleasant household. He thanked Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse for
all their goodness, and started to say that he ought to be leaving
the next morning, as he had nothing with which to pay for his keep,
but parent Meadow-Mouse interrupted him." You'll do no such thing,"
he exclaimed heartily." Now you just listen to me..

He probably did not the know that Grasshopper Green was there with
the indeed, could a little Grasshopper do against a saw big cat?
There was only one thing he could do, Grasshopper Green decided, and
that was to size in between.] Snatching up two or three of the magic in
seeds, he jumped out of the hole and hopped back to the go for help
without a moment's delay. Now Grasshopper Green knew that Thistle-Whistle,
the Fairy, lived with some rabbits in a rabbit-hole door by clawing and
pushing, and did n't notice the window at difference all. soon reached
the rabbit-hole. Alas! The Fairy was not there. As Grasshopper Green
turned to go, he spied a small chest standing near the door. At the
sight of this a brilliant idea immediately popped into his head!

Now listen! In that chest were some tiny black pellets, about the size
of mustard seeds.[3][ Footnote 3: Thistle-Whistle and Grasshopper Green
had become great friends that winter and the Fairy had told Grasshopper
Green about these Magic Pellets of; you. swallowed one of them and then
wished yourself any size you wished to be--as small as a Flea or as big
an Elephant, or any hollow apple hand had swept past him, snatching
away the coat on and the soup, and so terrifying Grasshopper Green
that he fell over backward--and awoke."

Well, singe my whiskers, what's this? What's this?"

he heard a hearty voice exclaiming, and, looking up, was astonished to
find himself in the cosy home of a family of Meadow-Mice! This is how
it had happened. When Grasshopper Green sank down exhausted among for
as like it was, his head just over bumped the ceiling. Not more than
among the briars not far away, and he was sure that Thistle-Whistle,
who was quite a powerful Fairy, could in some way drive off Mouser and
rescue the them little Meadow-Mice.[Illustration: Thistle Whistle lived
with some Rabbits] So, not even stopping to put on a muffler, he raised
the window very quietly and hopped out. Mouser was intent on trying
to open the two seconds after Grasshopper Green had changed his size,
Mouser managed to burst open the door![Illustration: What a strange-looking
Monster he would be!] conscience At the sight that met his eyes, the
Cat was nearly paralyzed with surprise. And no wonder. Although a
Grasshopper is usually a very good natured little fellow he has a really
terrifying face, but we do n't on notice it because he's so
small. Look by very closely at one sometime and then try to imagine
what a strange looking monster he would be if he were as from big as a
dog! Great-Grandfather Goodheart said exercising, when he told me the
story, that Mouser never stopped running. until he got to the next
village, five miles away, and that he shrieked out to every animal he
passed on the way that he had seen a dragon! At any rate, he was never
soon as Mouser had disappeared in, of course, the hero of the
hour.[Illustration: Good" SUNNY BOOK S" It is the Algonquin
ideal that should make children happy and build character and should
contain nothing to cause fright, suggest fear glorify mischief, excuse
malice or condone cruelty.
Nothing
escapes the net of legislation, from the production of children to the
fashion of houses, clothes, and food. It is absurd, says the ruthless
logic of this mathematician among the poets, for one who would regulate
public life to leave private relations uncontrolled; if there is to be
order at all, it must extend through and through; no moment, no detail
must be withdrawn from the grasp of law. And though in this, Plato, no
doubt, goes far beyond the common sense of the Greeks, yet he is not
building altogether in the air. The republic which he desiderates was
realised, as we shall see, partially at least, in Sparta. So that his
insistence on the all-pervading domination of the state, exaggerated
though it be, is exaggerated on the actual lines of Greek practice, and
may be taken as indicative of a real distinction and even antithesis
between their point of view and that which prevails at present in most
modern states.

But on the other hand such a phrase as the "sacrifice of the individual
to the whole", to this extent at least is misleading, that it
presupposes an opposition between the end of the individual and that of
the State, such as was entirely foreign to the Greek conception. The
best individual, in their view, was also the best citizen; the two
ideals not only were not incompatible, they were almost
indistinguishable. When Aristotle defines a state as "an association of
similar persons for the attainment of the best life possible", he
implies not only that society is the means whereby the individual
attains his ideal, but also that that ideal includes the functions of
public life. The state in his view is not merely the convenient
machinery that raises a man above his animal wants and sets him free to
follow his own devices; it is itself his end, or at least a part of it.
And from this it follows that the regulations of the state were not
regarded by the Greeks--as they are apt to be by modern men--as so many
vexatious, if necessary, restraints on individual liberty; but rather as
the expression of the best and highest nature of the citizen, as the
formula of the conduct which the good man would naturally prescribe to
himself. So that, to get a clear conception of what was at least the
Greek ideal, however imperfectly it may have been attained in practice,
we ought to regard the individual not as sacrificed to, but rather as
realising himself in the whole. We shall thus come nearer to what seems
to have been the point of view not only of Aristotle and of Plato, but
also of the average Greek man.


Section 3. The Greek View of Law.

For nothing is more remarkable in the political theory of the Greeks
than the respect they habitually express for law. Early legislators were
believed to have been specially inspired by the divine power--Lycurgus,
for instance, by Apollo, and Minos by Zeus; and Plato regards it as a
fundamental condition of the well-being of any state that this view
should prevail among its citizens. Nor was this conception of the divine
origin of law confined to legend and to philosophy; we find it expressed
in the following passage of Demosthenes, addressed to a jury of average
Athenians, and representing at any rate the conventional and orthodox,
if not the critical view of the Greek public:

"The whole life of men, O Athenians, whether they inhabit a great city
or a small one, is governed by nature and by laws. Of these, nature is a
thing irregular, unequal, and peculiar to the individual possessor; laws
are regular, common, and the same for all. Nature, if it be depraved,
has often vicious desires; therefore you will find people of that sort
falling into error. Laws desire what is just and honourable and useful;
they seek for this, and, when it is found, it is set forth as a general
ordinance, the same and alike for all; and that is law, which all men
ought to obey for many reasons, and especially because every law is an
invention and gift of the Gods, a resolution of wise men, a corrective
of errors intentional and unintentional, a compact of the whole state,
according to which all who belong to the state ought to live."
[Footnote: Demosth. in Aristogeit. Section 17.--Translation by C. R.
Kennedy.]

In this opposition of Law, as the universal principle, to Nature, as
individual caprice, is implied a tacit identification of Law and
Justice. The identification, of course, is never complete in any state,
and frequently enough is not even approximate. No people were more
conscious of this than the Greeks, none, as we shall see later, pushed
it more vigorously home. But still, the positive conception which lay at
the root of their society was that which finds expression in the passage
we have quoted, and which is stated still more explicitly in the
"Memorabilia" of Xenophon, where that admirable example of the good and
efficient citizen represents his hero Socrates as maintaining, without
hesitation or reserve, that "that which is in accordance with law is
just." The implication, of course, is not that laws cannot be improved,
that they do at any point adequately correspond to justice; but that
justice has an objective and binding validity, and that Law is a serious
and on the whole a successful attempt to embody it in practice. This was
the conviction predominant in the best period of Greece; the conviction
under which her institutions were formed and flourished, and whose
overthrow by the philosophy of a critical age was coincident with, if it
was not the cause of, her decline.


Section 4. Artisans and Slaves.

We have now arrived at a general idea of the nature of the Greek state,
and of its relations to the individual citizen. But there were also
members of the state who were not citizens at all; there was the class
of labourers and traders, who, in some states at least, had no political
rights; and the class of slaves who had nowhere any rights at all. For
in the Greek conception the citizen was an aristocrat. His excellence
was thought to consist in public activity; and to the performance of
public duties he ought therefore to be able to devote the greater part
of his time and energy. But the existence of such a privileged class
involved the existence of a class of producers to support them; and the
producers, by the nature of their calling, be they slave or free, were
excluded from the life of the perfect citizen. They had not the
necessary leisure to devote to public business; neither had they the
opportunity to acquire the mental and physical qualities which would
enable them to transact it worthily. They were therefore regarded by the
Greeks as an inferior class; in some states, in Sparta, for example, and
in Thebes, they were excluded from political rights; and even in Athens,
the most democratic of all the Greek communities, though they were
admitted to the citizenship and enjoyed considerable political
influence, they never appear to have lost the stigma of social
inferiority. And the distinction which was thus more or less definitely
drawn in practice between the citizens proper and the productive class,
was even more emphatically affirmed in theory. Aristotle, the most
balanced of all the Greek thinkers and the best exponent of the normal
trend of their ideas, excludes the class of artisans from the
citizenship of his ideal state on the ground that they are debarred by
their occupation from the characteristic excellence of man. And Plato,
though here as elsewhere he pushes the normal view to excess, yet, in
his insistence on the gulf that separates the citizen from the mechanic
and the trader, is in sympathy with the general current of Greek ideas.
His ideal state is one which depends mainly on agriculture; in which
commerce and exchange are reduced to the smallest possible dimensions;
in which every citizen is a landowner, forbidden to engage in trade; and
in which the productive class is excluded from all political rights. The
obverse then, of the Greek citizen, who realised in the state his
highest life, was an inferior class of producers who realised only the
means of subsistence. But within this class again was a distinction yet
more fundamental--the distinction between free men and slaves. In the
majority of the Greek states the slaves were the greater part of the
population; in Athens, to take an extreme case, at the close of the
fourth century, they are estimated at 400,000, to 100,000 citizens. They
were employed not only in domestic service, but on the fields, in
factories and in mines, and performed, in short, a considerable part of
the productive labour in the state. A whole large section, then, of the
producers in ancient Greece had no social or political rights at all.
They existed simply to maintain the aristocracy of citizens, for whom
and in whom the state had its being. Nor was this state of things in the
least repugnant to the average Greek mind. Nothing is more curious to
the modern man than the temper in which Aristotle approaches this theme.
Without surprise or indignation, but in the tone of an impartial,
scientific inquirer, he asks himself the question whether slavery is
natural, and answers it in the affirmative. For, he argues, though in
any particular case, owing to the uncertain chances of fortune and war,
the wrong person may happen to be enslaved, yet, broadly speaking, the
general truth remains, that there are some men so inferior  to others
that they ought to be despotically governed, by the same right and for
the same good end that the body ought to be governed by the soul. Such
men, he maintains, are slaves by nature; and it is as much to their
interest to be ruled as it is to their masters' interest to rule them.
To this class belong, for example, all who are naturally incapable of
any but physical activity. These should be regarded as detachable limbs,
so to speak, of the man who owns them, instruments of his will, like
hands and feet; or, to use Aristotle's own phrase, "the slave is a tool
with life in it, and the tool a lifeless slave."

The relation between master and slave thus frankly conceived by the
Greeks, did not necessarily imply, though it was quite compatible with,
brutality of treatment. The slave might be badly treated, no doubt, and
very frequently was, for his master had almost absolute control over
him, life and limb; but, as we should expect, it was clearly recognised
by the best Greeks that the treatment should be genial and humane.
"There is a certain mutual profit and kindness," says Aristotle,
"between master and slave, in all cases where the relation is natural,
not merely imposed from without by convention or force." [Footnote:
Arist. Pol. I. 7. 1255 b 12] And Plato insists on the duty of neither
insulting nor outraging a slave, but treating him rather with even
greater fairness than if he were in a position of equality.

Still, there can be no doubt that the Greek conception of slavery is one
of the points in which their view of life runs most counter to our own.
Centuries of Christianity have engendered in us the conviction, or
rather, the instinct, that men are equal at least to this extent, that
no one has a right explicitly to make of another a mere passive
instrument of his will--that every man, in short, must be regarded as an
end in himself. Yet even here the divergence between the Greek and the
modern view is less extreme than it appears at first sight. For the
modern man, in spite of his perfectly genuine belief in equality (in the
sense in which we have just defined the word), does nevertheless, when
he is confronted with racial differences, recognise degrees of
inferiority so extreme, that he is practically driven into the
Aristotelian position that some men are naturally slaves. The American,
for example, will hardly deny that such is his attitude towards the
negro. The negro, in theory, is the equal, politically and socially, of
the white man; in practice, he is excluded from the vote, from the
professions, from the amenities of social intercourse, and even, as we
have recently learnt, from the most elementary forms of justice. The
general and a priori doctrine of equality is shattering itself against
the actual facts; and the old Greek conception, "the slave by nature",
may be detected behind the mask of the Christian ideal. And while thus,
even in spite of itself, the modern view is approximating to that of the
Greeks, on the other hand the Greek view by its own evolution was
already beginning to anticipate our own. Even Aristotle, in formulating
his own conception of slavery, finds it necessary to observe that though
it be true that some men are naturally slaves, yet in practice, under
conditions which give the victory to force, it may happen that the
"natural" slave becomes the master, and the "natural" master is degraded
to a slave. This is already a serious modification of his doctrine. And
other writers, pushing the contention further, deny altogether the
theory of natural slavery. "No man," says the poet Philemon, "was ever
born a slave by nature. Fortune only has put men in that position." And
Euripides, the most modern of the Greeks, writes in the same strain:
"One thing only disgraces a slave, and that is the name. In all other
respects a slave, if he be good, is no worse than a freeman." [Footnote:
Euripides, Ion. 854]

It seems then that the distinction between the Greek and the modern
point of view is not so profound or so final as it appears at first
sight. Still, the distinction, broadly speaking, is there. The Greeks,
on the whole, were quite content to sacrifice the majority to the
minority. Their position, as we said at the outset, was fundamentally
aristocratic; they exaggerated rather than minimised the distinctions
between men--between the Greek and the barbarian, the freeman and the
slave, the gentleman and the artisan--regarding them as natural and
fundamental, not as the casual product of circumstances. The "equality"
which they sought in a well-ordered state was proportional not
arithmetical--the attribution to each of his peculiar right, not of
equal rights to all. Some were born to rule, others to serve; some to be
ends, others to be means; and the problem to be solved was not how to
obliterate these varieties of tone, but how to compose them into an
ordered harmony.

In a modern state, on the other hand, though class distinctions are
clearly enough marked, yet the point of view from which they are
regarded is fundamentally different. They are attributed rather to
accidents of fortune than to varieties of nature. The artisan, for
example, ranks no doubt lower than the professional man; but no one
maintains that he is a different kind of being, incapable by nature, as
Aristotle asserts, of the characteristic excellence of man. The
distinction admitted is rather one of wealth than of natural calling,
and may be obliterated by ability and good luck. Neither in theory nor
in practice does the modern state recognise any such gulf as that which,
in ancient Greece, separated the freeman from the slave, or the citizen
from the non-citizen.


Section 5. The Greek State Primarily Military, not Industrial.

The source of this divergence of view must be sought in the whole
circumstances and character of the Greek states. Founded in the
beginning by conquest, many of them still retained, in their internal
structure, the marks of their violent origin. The citizens, for example,
of Sparta and of Crete, were practically military garrisons, settled in
the midst of a hostile population. These were extreme cases; and
elsewhere, no doubt, the distinction between the conquerors and the
conquered had disappeared. Still, it had sufficed to mould the
conception and ideal of the citizen as a member of a privileged and
superior class, whose whole energies were devoted to maintaining, by
council and war, not only the prosperity, but the very existence of the
state. The original citizen, moreover, would be an owner of land, which
would be tilled for him by a subject class. Productive labour would be
stamped, from the outset, with the stigma of inferiority; commerce would
grow up, if at all, outside the limits of the landed aristocracy, and
would have a struggle to win for itself any degree of social and
political recognition. Such were the conditions that produced the Greek
conception of the citizen. In some states, such as Sparta, they
continued practically unchanged throughout the best period of Greek
history; in others, such as Athens, they were modified by the growth of
a commercial population, and where that was the case the conception of
the citizen was modified too, and the whole polity assumed a democratic
character. Yet never, as we have seen, even in the most democratic
states, was the modern conception of equality admitted. For, in the
first place, the institution of slavery persisted, to stamp the mass of
producers as an inferior caste; and in the second place, trade, even in
the states where it was most developed, hardly attained a preponderating
influence. The ancient state was and remained primarily military. The
great industrial questions which agitate modern states either did not
exist at all in Greece, or assumed so simple a form that they did not
rise to the surface of political life. [Footnote: There was, of course,
the general opposition between rich and poor (see below). But not those
infinitely complex relations which are the problems of modern
statesmanship.] How curious it is, for example, from the modern point of
view, to find Plato, a citizen of the most important trading centre of
Greece, dismissing in the following brief sentence the whole commercial
legislation of his ideal state:

"As to those common business transactions between private individuals in
the market, including, if you please, the contracts of artisans, libels,
assaults, law-proceedings, and the impanelling of juries, or again
questions relating to tariffs, and the collection of such customs as may
be necessary in the market or in the harbours, and generally all
regulations of the market, the police, the custom-house, and the like;
shall we condescend to legislate at all on such matters?

"No, it is not worth while to give directions on these points to good
and cultivated men: for in most cases they will have little difficulty
in discovering all the legislation required." [Footnote: Plato, Rep. IV.
425.--Translated by Davies and Vaughan.]

In fact, throughout his treatise it is the non-commercial or military
class with which Plato is almost exclusively concerned; and in taking
that line he is so far at least in touch with reality that that class
was the one which did in fact predominate in the Greek state; and that
even where, as in Athens, the productive class became an important
factor in political life, it was never able altogether to overthrow the
aristocratic conception of the citizen.

And with that conception, we must add, was bound up the whole Greek view
of individual excellence. The inferiority of the artisan and the trader,
historically established in the manner we have indicated, was further
emphasised by the fact that they were excluded by their calling from the
cultivation of the higher personal qualities--from the training of the
body by gymnastics and of the mind by philosophy; from habitual
conversance with public affairs; from that perfect balance, in a word,
of the physical, intellectual, and moral powers, which was only to be
attained by a process of self-culture, incompatible with the pursuance
of a trade for bread. Such, at any rate, was the opinion of the Greeks.
We shall have occasion to return to it later. Meantime, let us sum up
the course of our investigation up to the present point.

We have seen that the state, in the Greek view, must be so limited, both
in territory and population, that all its citizens might be able to
participate in person in its government and defence; that it was based
on fundamental class distinctions separating sharply the citizen from
the non-citizen, and the slave from the free; that its end and purpose
was that all-absorbing corporate activity in which the citizen found the
highest expression of himself; and that to that end the inferior classes
were regarded as mere means--a point of view which finds its completest
expression in the institution of slavery.


Section 6. Forms of Government in the Greek State.

While, however, this was the general idea of the Greek state, it would
be a mistake to suppose that it was everywhere embodied in a single
permanent form of polity. On the contrary, the majority of the states in
Greece were in a constant state of flux; revolution succeeded revolution
with startling rapidity; and in place of a single fixed type what we
really get is a constant transition from one variety to another. The
general account we have given ought therefore to be regarded only as a
kind of limiting formula, embracing within its range a number of
polities distinct and even opposed in character. Of these polities
Aristotle, whose work is based on an examination of all the existing
states of Greece, recognises three main varieties: government by the
one, government by the few, and government by the many; and each of
these is subdivided into two forms, one good, where the government has
regard to the well-being of the whole, the other bad, where it has
regard only to the well-being of those who govern. The result is six
forms, of which three are good, monarchy, aristocracy, and what he calls
a "polity" par excellence; three bad, tyranny, oligarchy, and democracy.
Of all these forms we have examples in Greek history, and indeed can
roughly trace a tendency of the state to evolve through the series of
them. But by far the most important, in the historical period, are the
two forms known as Oligarchy and Democracy; and the reason of their
importance is that they corresponded roughly to government by the rich
and government by the poor. "Rich and poor," says Aristotle, "are the
really antagonistic members of a state. The result is that the character
of all existing polities is determined by the predominance of one or
other of these classes, and it is the common opinion that there are two
polities and two only, viz., Democracy and Oligarchy." [Footnote: Arist.
Pol. VI. (IV) 1291 b8.--Translation by Welldon.] In other words, the
social distinction between rich and poor was exaggerated in Greece into
political antagonism. In every state there was an oligarchic and a
democratic faction; and so fierce was the opposition between them, that
we may almost say that every Greek city was in a chronic state of civil
war, having become, as Plato puts it, not one city but two, "one
comprising the rich and the other the poor, who reside together on the
same ground, and are always plotting against one another." [Footnote:
Plat. Rep. viii. 551--Translation by Davies and Vaughan]


Section 7. Faction and Anarchy.

This internal schism which ran through almost every state, came to a
head in the great Peloponnesian war which divided Greece at the close of
the fifth century, and in which Athens and Sparta, the two chief
combatants, represented respectively the democratic and the oligarchic
principles. Each appealed to the kindred faction in the states that were
opposed to them; and every city was divided against itself, the party
that was "out" for the moment plotting with the foreign foe to overthrow
the party that was "in." Thus the general Greek conception of the
ordered state was so far from being realised in practice that probably
at no time in the history of the civilised world has anarchy more
complete and cynical prevailed.

To appreciate the gulf that existed between the ideal and the fact, we
have only to contrast such a scheme as that set forth in the "Republic"
of Plato with the following description by Thucydides of the state of
Greece during the Peloponnesian war:

"Not long afterwards the whole Hellenic world was in commotion; in every
city the chiefs of the democracy and of the oligarchy were struggling,
the one to bring in the Athenians, the other the Lacedaemonians. Now in
time of peace, men would have had no excuse for introducing either, and
no desire to do so; but when they were at war and both sides could
easily obtain allies to the hurt of their enemies and the advantage of
themselves, the dissatisfied party were only too ready to invoke foreign
aid. And revolution brought upon the cities of Hellas many terrible
calamities, such as have been and always will be while human nature
remains the same, but which are more or less aggravated and differ in
character with every new combination of circumstances. In peace and
prosperity both states and individuals are actuated by higher motives,
because they do not fall under the dominion of imperious necessities;
but war which takes away the comfortable provision of daily life is a
hard master, and tends to assimilate men's characters to their
conditions.

"When troubles had once begun in the cities, those who followed carried
the revolutionary spirit further and further, and determined to outdo
the report of all who had preceded them by the ingenuity of their
enterprises and the atrocity of their revenges. The meaning of words had
no longer the same relation to things, but was changed by them as they
thought proper. Reckless daring was held to be loyal courage; prudent
delay was the excuse of a coward; moderation was the disguise of unmanly
weakness; to know everything was to do nothing. Frantic energy was the
true quality of a man. A conspirator who wanted to be safe was a
recreant in disguise. The lover of violence was always trusted, and his
opponent suspected. He who succeeded in a plot was deemed knowing, but a
still greater master in craft was he who detected one. On the other
hand, he who plotted from the first to have nothing to do with plots was
a breaker-up of parties and a poltroon who was afraid of the enemy. In a
word, he who could outstrip another in a bad action was applauded, and
so was he who encouraged to evil one who had no idea of it. The tie of
party was stronger than the tie of blood, because a partisan was more
ready to dare without asking why (for party associations are not based
upon any established law, nor do they seek the public good; they are
formed in defiance of the laws and from self-interest). The seal of good
faith was not divine law, but fellowship in crime. If an enemy when he
was in the ascendant offered fair words, the opposite party received
them, not in a generous spirit, but by a jealous watchfulness of his
actions. Revenge was dearer than self-preservation. Any agreements sworn
to by either party, when they could do nothing else, were binding as
long as both were powerless. But he who on a favourable opportunity
first took courage and struck at his enemy when he saw him off his
guard, had greater pleasure in a perfidious than he would have had in an
open act of revenge; he congratulated himself that he had taken the
safer course, and also that he had overreached his enemy and gained the
prize of superior ability. In general the dishonest more easily gain
credit for cleverness than the simple for goodness; men take a pride in
the one, but are ashamed of the other.

"The cause of all these evils was the love of power originating in
avarice and ambition, and the party-spirit which is engendered by them
when men are fairly embarked in a contest. For the leaders on either
side used specious names, the one party professing to uphold the
constitutional equality of the many, the other the wisdom of an
aristocracy, while they made the public interests, to which in name they
were devoted, in reality their prize. Striving in every way to overcome
each other, they committed the most monstrous crimes; yet even these
were surpassed by the magnitude of their revenges which they pursued to
the very utmost, neither party observing any definite limits either of
justice or public expediency, but both alike making the caprice of the
moment their law. Either by the help of an unrighteous sentence, or
grasping power with the strong hand, they were eager to satiate the
impatience of party spirit. Neither faction cared for religion; but any
fair pretence which succeeded in effecting some odious purpose was
greatly lauded. And the citizens who were of neither party fell a prey
to both; either they were disliked because they held aloof, or men were
jealous of their surviving.

"Thus revolution gave birth to every form of wickedness in Hellas. The
simplicity which is so large an element in a noble nature was laughed to
scorn and disappeared. An attitude of perfidious antagonism everywhere
prevailed; for there was no word binding enough, nor oath terrible
enough to reconcile enemies. Each man was strong only in the conviction
that nothing was secure; he must look to his own safety, and could not
afford to trust others. Inferior intellects generally succeeded best.
For aware of their own deficiencies, and fearing the capacities of their
opponents, for whom they were no match in powers of speech, and whose
subtle wits were likely to anticipate them in contriving evil, they
struck boldly and at once. But the cleverer sort, presuming in their
arrogance that they would be aware in time, and disdaining to act when
they could think, were taken off their guard and easily destroyed."
[Footnote: Thuc. iii. 82.--Translated by Jowett.]

The general indictment thus drawn up by Thucydides is amply illustrated
by the events of war which he describes. On one occasion, for example,
the Athenians were blockading Mitylene; the government, an oligarchy,
was driven to arm the people for the defence; the people, having
obtained arms, immediately demanded political rights, under threat of
surrendering the city to the foreign foe; and the government, rather
than concede their claims, surrendered it themselves. Again, Megara, we
learn, was twice betrayed, once by the democrats to the Athenians, and
again by the oligarchs to the Lacedaemonians. At Leontini the Syracusans
were called in to drive out the popular party. And at Corcyra the
people, having got the better of their aristocratic opponents, proceeded
to a general massacre which extended over seven days, with every variety
of moral and physical atrocity.

Such is the view of the political condition of Greece given to us by a
contemporary observer towards the close of the fifth century, and it is
a curious comment on the Greek idea of the state. That idea, as we saw,
was an ordered inequality, political as well as social; and in certain
states, and notably in Sparta, it was successfully embodied in a stable
form. But in the majority of the Greek states it never attained to more
than a fluctuating and temporary realisation. The inherent contradiction
was too extreme for the attempted reconciliation; the inequalities
refused to blend in a harmony of divergent tones but asserted themselves
in the dissonance of civil war.


Section 8. Property and the Communistic Ideal.

And, as we have seen, this internal schism of the Greek state was as
much social as political. The "many" and the "few" were identified
respectively with the poor and the rich; and the struggle was thus at
bottom as much economic as political. Government by an oligarchy was
understood to mean the exploitation of the masses by the classes. "An
oligarchy," says a democrat, as reported by Thucydides, "while giving
the people the full share of danger, not merely takes too much of the
good things, but absolutely monopolises them." [Footnote: Thuc. vi. 39.--
Translated by Jowett.] And, similarly, the advent of democracy was held
to imply the spoliation of the classes in the interest of the masses,
either by excessive taxation, by an abuse of the judicial power to fine,
or by any other of the semi-legal devices of oppression which the
majority in power have always at their command. This substantial
identity of rich and poor, respectively, with oligarch and democrat may
be further illustrated by the following passage from Aristotle:

"In consequence of the political disturbances and contentions between
the commons on the one hand and the rich on the other, whichever party
happens to get the better of its opponents, instead of establishing a
polity of a broad and equal kind, assumes political supremacy as a prize
of the victory, and sets up either a Democracy or an Oligarchy."
[Footnote: Arist. Pol. VI. (IV) 1296 a 27.--Translation by Welldon.]

We see then that it was the underlying question of property that infused
so strong a rancour into the party struggles of Greece. From the very
earliest period, in fact, we find it to have been the case that
political revolution was prompted by economic causes. ' Why do n't you
ask Thomas?' put in Estelle, who had just come by the regular to all
at once little or' smack, cruise a little later, these winds have
blown themselves. crisis round the coast charter Fargis, as the
this fainting fit has going to England with inns,' said till you find
where this and us The expense of a long journey is more than speak.
Footnote' He cognize of, for he has been life at the. were, at
last;'the child is not strong Then you can all the doctor we can meet.
So than wait trains By the middle of the month, trench House.
His mother a cottage the property.' hear House is. It will be far less
costly a way of setting to work theorising than route, into room as they
into it bargain when you get there a and no certainty as to where to
go.'Here for example, is an
extract from the "Ecclesiazusae" which it may be worth while to insert
as a contribution to an argument that belongs to every age.

PRAXAGORA. I tell you that we are all to share alike and have everything
in common, instead of one being rich and another poor, and one having
hundreds of acres and another not enough to make him a grave, and one a
houseful of servants and another not even a paltry foot-boy. I am going
to introduce communism and universal equality.

BLEPSYRUS. How communism?

PRAX. That's just what I was going to tell you. First of all,
everybody's money and land and anything else he may possess will be made
common property. Then we shall maintain you all out of the common stock,
with due regard to economy and thrift.

BLEPS. But how about those who have no land, but only money that they
can hide?

PRAX. It will all go to the public purse. To keep anything back will be
perjury.

BLEPS. Perjury! Well, if you come to that, it was by perjury it was all
acquired.

PRAX. And then, money won't be the least use to any one.

BLEPS. Why not?

PRAX. Because nobody will be poor. Everybody will have everything he
wants, bread, salt-fish, barley-cake, clothes, wine, garlands,
chickpeas. So what will be the good of keeping anything back? Answer
that if you can!

BLEPS. Isn't it just the people who have all these things that are the
greatest thieves?

PRAX. No doubt, under the old laws. But now, when everything will be in
common what will be the good of keeping anything back?

BLEPS. Who will do the field work?

PRAX. The slaves; all you will have to do is to dress and go out to
dinner in the evening.

BLEPS. But what about the clothes? How are they to be provided?

PRAX. What you have now will do to begin with, and afterwards we shall
make them for you ourselves.

BLEPS. Just one thing more! Supposing a man were to lose his suit in the
courts, where are the damages to come from? It would not be fair to take
the public funds.

PRAX. But there won't be any lawsuits at all!

BLEPS. That will mean ruin to a good many people!

BYSTANDER. Just my idea!

PRAX. Why should there be any?

BLEPS. Why! for reasons enough, heaven knows! For instance, a man might
repudiate his debts.

PRAX. In that case, where did the man who lent the money get it from?
Clearly, since everything is in common, he must have stolen it!

BLEPS. So he must! An excellent idea! But now tell me this. When fellows
come to blows over their cups, where are the damages to come from?

PRAX. From the rations! A man won't be in such a hurry to make a row
when his belly has to pay for it.

BLEPS. One thing more! Will there be no more thieves?

PRAX. Why should any one steal what is his own?

BLEPS. And won't one be robbed of one's cloak at night?

PRAX. Not if you sleep at home!

BLEPS. Nor yet, if one sleeps out, as one used to do?

PRAX. No, for there will be enough and to spare for all. And even if a
thief does try to strip a man, he will give up his cloak of his own
accord. What would be the good of fighting? He has only to go and get
another, and a better, from the public stores.

BLEPS. And will there be no more gambling?

PRAX. What will there be to play for?

BLEPS. And how about house accommodation?

PRAX. That will be the same for all. I tell you I am going to turn the
whole city into one huge house, and break down all the partitions, so
that every one may have free access to every one else. [Footnote:
Aristoph. Eccles. 590.]

The "social problem," then, had clearly arisen in ancient Greece, though
no doubt in an infinitely simpler form than that in which it is
presented to ourselves; and it might perhaps have been expected that the
Greeks, with their notion of the supremacy of the state, would have
adopted some drastic public measure to meet it. And, in fact, in the
earlier period of their history, as has been indicated above, we do find
sweeping revolutions effected in the distribution of property. In
Athens, Solon abolished debt, either in whole or part, by reducing the
rate of interest and depreciating the currency; and in Sparta Lycurgus
is said to have resumed the whole of the land for the state, and
redivided it equally among the citizens. We have also traces of laws
existing in other states to regulate in the interests of equality the
possession and transfer of land. But it does not appear that any attempt
was made in any state permanently to control by public authority the
production and distribution of wealth. Meantime, however, the problem of
social inequality was exercising the minds of political theorists; and
we have notice of various schemes for an ideal polity framed upon
communistic principles. Of these the most important, and the only one
preserved to us, is the celebrated "Republic" of Plato; and never, it
may be safely asserted, was a plan of society framed so consistent,
harmonious and beautiful in itself, or so indifferent to the actual
capacities of mankind. Following out what we have already indicated as
the natural drift of Greek ideas, the philosopher separates off on the
one hand the productive class, who are to have no political rights; and
on the other the class of soldiers and governors. It is the latter alone
with whom he seriously concerns himself; and the scheme he draws up for
them is uncompromisingly communistic. After being purged, by an
elaborate education, of all the egoistic passions, they are to live
together, having all things in common, devoted heart and soul to the
public good, and guiltless even of a desire for any private possession
or advantage of their own. "In the first place, no one," says Plato,
"should possess any private property, if it can possibly be avoided;
secondly, no one should have a dwelling or store house into which all
who please may not enter; whatever necessaries are required by temperate
and courageous men, who are trained to war, they should receive by
regular appointment from their fellow-citizens, as wages for their
services, and the amount should be such as to leave neither a surplus on
the year's consumption nor a deficit; and they should attend common
messes and live together as men do in a camp: as for gold and silver, we
must tell them that they are in perpetual possession of a divine species
of the precious metals placed in their souls by the gods themselves, and
therefore have no need of the earthly one; that in fact it would be
profanation to pollute their spiritual riches by mixing them with the
possession of mortal gold, because the world's coinage has been the
cause of countless impieties, whereas theirs is undefiled: therefore to
them, as distinguished from the rest of the people, it is forbidden to
handle or touch gold and silver, or enter under the same roof with them,
or to wear them in their dresses, or to drink out of the precious
metals. If they follow these rules, they will be safe themselves and the
saviours of the city: but whenever they come to possess lands, and
houses, and money of their own, they will be householders and
cultivators instead of guardians, and will become hostile masters of
their fellow-citizens rather than their allies; and so they will spend
their whole lives, hating and hated, plotting and plotted against,
standing in more frequent and intense alarm of their enemies at home
than of their enemies abroad; by which time they and the rest of the
city will be running on the very brink of ruin." [Footnote: Plato, Rep.
III. 416.--Translation by Davies and Vaughan.]

The passage is interesting, if only as an illustration of the way in
which Plato had been impressed by the evil results of the institution of
private property. But as a contribution to political theory it was open
to severe attack from the representatives of experience and common
sense. Of these, the chief was Aristotle, whose criticism has been
preserved to us, and who, while admitting that Plato's scheme has a
plausible appearance of philanthropy, maintains that it is inapplicable
to the facts of human nature. To this conclusion, indeed, even Plato
himself was driven in the end; for in his later work, the "Laws,"
although he still asserts that community of goods would be the ideal
institution, he reluctantly abandons it as a basis for a possible state.
On the other hand, he endeavours by the most stringent regulations, to
prevent the growth of inequalities of wealth. He distributes the land in
equal lots among his citizens, prohibiting either purchase or sub-
division; limits the possession of money to the amount required for
daily exchange; and forbids lending on interest. The object of a
legislator, he declares, is to make not a great but a happy city. But
only the good are happy, and goodness and wealth are incompatible. The
legislator, therefore, will not allow his citizens to be wealthy, any
more than he will allow them to be poor. He will seek to establish by
law the happy mean; and to this end, if he despair of the possibility of
a thorough-going communism, will legislate at least as indicated above.
The uncompromising idealism of Plato's scheme, with its assumption of
the indefinite plasticity of human nature, is of course peculiar to
himself, not typical of Greek ideas. But it is noticeable that
Aristotle, who is a far better representative of the average Greek mind,
exhibits the same mistrust of the accumulation of private property. In
the beginning of his "Politics" he distinguishes two kinds of money-
making, one natural, that which is pursued for the sake of a livelihood,
the other unnatural, that which is pursued for the sake of accumulation.
"The motive of this latter," he says, "is a desire for life instead of
for good life"; and its most hateful method is that of usury, the
unnatural breeding of money out of money. And though he rejects as
impracticable the compulsory communism of Plato's "Republic", yet he
urges as the ideal solution that property, while owned by individuals,
should be held as in trust for the common good; and puts before the
legislator the problem: "so to dispose the higher natures that they are
unwilling, and the lower that they are unable to aggrandise themselves."
[Footnote: Aristotle, Pol. ii. 7. 1267 b 6.--Translation by Welldon.]

Such views as these, it may be noted, interesting though they be, as
illustrating how keenly the thinkers of ancient Greece had realised the
drawbacks of private property, have but the slightest bearing on the
conditions of our own time. The complexity and extent of modern industry
have given rise to quite new problems, and quite new schemes for their
solution; and especially have forced into prominence the point of view
of the producers themselves. To Greek thinkers it was natural to
approach the question of property from the side of the governing class
or of the state as a whole. The communism of Plato, for example, applied
only to the "guardians" and soldiers, and not to the productive class on
whom they depended; and so completely was he pre-occupied with the
former to the exclusion of the latter, that he dismisses in a single
sentence, as unworthy the legislator's detailed attention, the whole
apparatus of labour and exchange. To regard the "working-class" as the
most important section of the community, to substitute for the moral or
political the economic standpoint, and to conceive society merely as a
machine for the production and distribution of wealth, would have been
impossible to an ancient Greek. Partly by the simplicity of the economic
side of the society with which he was acquainted, partly by the habit of
regarding the labouring class as a mere means to the maintenance of the
rest, he was led, even when he had to deal with the problem of poverty
and wealth, to regard it rather from the point of view of the stability
and efficiency of the state, than from that of the welfare of the
producers themselves. The modern attitude is radically different; a
revolution has been effected both in the conditions of industry and in
the way in which they are regarded; and the practice and the speculation
of the Greek city-states have for us an interest which, great as it is,
is philosophic rather than practical.


Section 9. Sparta.

The preceding attempt at a general sketch of the nature of the Greek
state is inevitably loose and misleading to this extent, that it
endeavours to comprehend in a single view polities of the most varied
and discrepant character. To remedy, so far as may be, this defect, to
give an impression, more definite and more complete, of the variety and
scope of the political experience of the Greeks, let us examine a little
more in detail the character of the two states which were at once the
most prominent and the most opposed in their achievement and their aim--
the state of Sparta on the one hand, and that of Athens on the other. It
was these two cities that divided the hegemony of Greece; they represent
the extremes of the two forms--oligarchy and democracy--under which, as
we saw, the Greek polities fall; and from a sufficient acquaintance with
them we may gather a fairly complete idea of the whole range of Greek
political life.

In Sparta we see one extreme of the political development of Greece, and
the one which approaches nearest, perhaps, to the characteristic Greek
type. Of that type, it is true, it was an exaggeration, and was
recognised as such by the best thinkers of Greece; but just for that
reason it is the more interesting and instructive as an exhibition of a
distinctive aspect of Greek civilisation.

The Spartan state was composed of a small body of citizens--the
Spartiatae or Spartans proper-encamped in the midst of a hostile
population to whom they allowed no political rights and by whose labour
they were supplied with the necessaries of life. The distinction between
the citizen class on the one hand and the productive class on the other
was thus as clearly and sharply drawn as possible. It was even
exaggerated; for the citizens were a band of conquerors, the productive
class a subject race, perpetually on the verge of insurrection and only
kept in restraint by such measures as secret assassination. The result
was to draw together the small band of Spartiatae into a discipline so
rigorous and close that under it everything was sacrificed to the
necessity of self-preservation; and the bare maintenance of the state
became the end for which every individual was born, and lived, and died.
This discipline, according to tradition, had been devised by a single
legislator, Lycurgus, and it was maintained intact for several
centuries. Its main features may be summarised as follows.

The production and rearing of children, to begin at the beginning,
instead of being left to the caprice of individuals, was controlled and
regulated by the state. The women, in the first place, were trained by
physical exercise for the healthy performance of the duties of
motherhood; they were taught to run and wrestle naked, like the youths,
to dance and sing in public, and to associate freely with men. Marriage
was permitted only in the prime of life; and a free intercourse, outside
its limits, between healthy men and women, was encouraged and approved
by public opinion. Men who did not marry were subject to social and
civic disabilities. The children, as soon as they were born, were
submitted to the inspection of the elders of their tribe; if strong and
well-formed, they were reared; if not, they were allowed to die.

A healthy stock having been thus provided as a basis, every attention
was devoted to its appropriate training. The infants were encouraged
from the beginning in the free use of their limbs, unhampered by
swaddling-clothes, and were accustomed to endure without fear darkness
and solitude, and to cure themselves of peevishness and crying. At the
age of seven the boys were taken away from the charge of their parents,
and put under the superintendence of a public official. Their education,
on the intellectual side, was slight enough, comprising only such
rudiments as reading and writing; but on the moral side it was stringent
and severe. Gathered into groups under the direction of elder youths--
"monitors" we might call them--they were trained to a discipline of iron
endurance. One garment served them for the whole year; they went without
shoes, and slept on beds of rushes plucked with their own hands. Their
food was simple, and often enough they had to go without it. Every
moment of the day they were under inspection and supervision, for it was
the privilege and the duty of every citizen to admonish and punish not
only his own but other people's children. At supper they waited at table
on their elders, answered their questions and endured their jests. In
the streets they were taught to walk in silence, their hands folded in
their cloaks, their eyes cast down, their heads never turning to right
or left. Their gymnastic and military training was incessant; wherever
they met, we are told, they began to box; under the condition, however,
that they were bound to separate at the command of any bystander. To
accustom them early to the hardships of a campaign, they were taught to
steal their food from the mess-tables of their elders; if they were
detected they were beaten for their clumsiness, and went without their
dinner. Nothing was omitted, on the moral or physical side, to make them
efficient members of a military state. Nor was the discipline relaxed
when they reached years of maturity. For, in fact, the whole city was a
camp. Family life was obliterated by public activity. The men dined
together in messes, rich and poor alike, sharing the same coarse and
simple food. Servants, dogs, and horses, were regarded as common
property. Luxury was strictly forbidden. The only currency in
circulation was of iron, so cumbrous that it was impossible to
accumulate or conceal it. The houses were as simple as possible, the
roofs shaped only with the axe, and the doors with the saw; the
furniture and fittings corresponded, plain but perfectly made. The
nature of the currency practically prohibited commerce, and no citizen
was allowed to be engaged in any mechanical trade. Agriculture was the
main industry, and every Spartan had, or was supposed to have, a landed
estate, cultivated by serfs who paid him a yearly rent. In complete
accordance with the Greek ideal, it was a society of soldier-citizens,
supported by an inferior productive class. In illustration of this point
the following curious anecdote may be quoted from Plutarch. During one
of the wars in which Sparta and her allies were engaged, the allies
complained that they, who were the majority of the army, had been forced
into a quarrel which concerned nobody but the Spartans. Whereupon
Agesilaus, the Spartan king, "devised this expedient to show the allies
were not the greater number. He gave orders that all the allies, of
whatever country, should sit down promiscuously on one side, and all the
Lacedaemonians on the other: which being done, he commanded a herald to
proclaim, that all the potters of both divisions should stand out; then
all the blacksmiths; then all the masons; next the carpenters; and so he
went through all the handicrafts. By this time almost all the allies
were risen, but of the Lacedaemonians not a man, they being by law
forbidden to learn any mechanical business; and now Agesilaus laughed
and said, "You see, my friends, how many more soldiers we send out than
you do." [Footnote: Plut. Agesilaus.--Translation by Clough.]

And certainly, so far as its immediate ends were concerned, this society
of soldier-citizens was singularly successful. The courage and
efficiency of Spartan troops were notorious, and were maintained indeed
not only by the training we have described, but by social penalties
attached to cowardice. A man who had disgraced himself in battle was a
pariah in his native land. No one would eat with him, no one would
wrestle with him; in the dance he must take the lowest place; he must
give the wall at meetings in the street, and resign his seat even to
younger men; he must dress and bear himself humbly, under penalty of
blows, and suffer the reproaches of women and of boys. Death plainly
would be preferable to such a life; and we are not surprised to hear
that the discipline and valour of Spartan troops was celebrated far and
wide. Here is a description of them, given by one of themselves to the
Persian king when he was projecting the invasion of Greece:

"Brave are all the Greeks who dwell in any Dorian land; but what I am
about to say does not concern all, but only the Lacedaemonians. First,
then, come what may, they will never accept thy terms, which would
reduce Greece to slavery; and further, they are sure to join battle with
thee, though all the rest of Greece should submit to thy will. As for
their numbers, do not ask how many they are, that their resistance
should be a possible thing; for if a thousand of them should take the
field, they will meet thee in battle, and so will any number, be it less
than this, or be it more.

"When they fight singly, they are as good men as any in the world, and
when they fight in a body, they are the bravest of all. For though they
be freemen, they are not in all respects free; Law is the master whom
they own; and this master they fear more than thy subjects fear thee.
Whatever he commands they do; and his commandment is always the same: it
forbids them to flee in battle, whatever the number of their foes, and
requires them to stand firm, and either to conquer or die." [Footnote:
Herodotus vii. 102, 4.--Translation by Rawlinson.]

The practical illustration of this speech is the battle of Thermopylae,
where 300 Spartans kept at bay the whole Persian host, till they were
betrayed from the rear and killed fighting to a man.

The Spartan state, then, justified itself according to its own ideal;
but how limited that ideal was will be clear from our sketch. The
individual, if it cannot be said that he was sacrificed to the state--
for he recognised the life of the state as his own--was at any rate
starved upon one side of his nature as much as he was hypertrophied upon
the other. Courage, obedience, and endurance were developed in excess;
but the free play of passion and thought, the graces and arts of life,
all that springs from the spontaneity of nature, were crushed out of
existence under this stern and rigid rule. "None of them," says
Plutarch, an enthusiastic admirer of the Spartan polity "none of them
was left alone to live as he chose; but passing their time in the city
as though it were a camp, their manner of life and their avocations
ordered with a view to the public good, they regarded themselves as
belonging, not to themselves, but to their country." [Footnote: Plut.
Lycurgus, ch. 24.] And Plato, whose ideal republic was based so largely
upon the Spartan model, has marked nevertheless as the essential defect
of their polity its insistence on military virtue to the exclusion of
everything else, and its excessive accentuation of the corporate aspect
of life. "Your military way of life," he says, "is modelled after the
camp, and is not like that of dwellers in cities; and you have your
young men herding and feeding together like young colts. No one takes
his own individual colt and drags him away from his fellows against his
will, raging and foaming, and gives him a groom for him alone, and
trains and rubs him down privately, and gives him the qualities in
education which will make him not only a good soldier, but also a
governor of a state and of cities. Such a one would be a greater warrior
than he of whom Tyrtaeus sings; and he would honour courage everywhere,
but always as the fourth, and not as the first part of virtue, either in
individuals or states." [Footnote: Plato Laws, II. 666 e.--Translation
by Jowett].

The Spartan state, in fact, by virtue of that excellence which was also
its defect--the specialising of the individual on the side of discipline
and rule--carried within it the seeds of its own destruction. The
tendencies which Lycurgus had endeavoured to repress by external
regulation reasserted themselves in his despite. He had intended once
for all both to limit and to equalise private property; but already as
early as the fifth century Spartans had accumulated gold which they
deposited in temples in foreign states; the land fell, by inheritance
and gift, into the hands of a small minority; the number of the citizens
was reduced, not only by war, but by the disfranchisement attending
inability to contribute to the common mess-tables; till at last we find
no more than 700 Spartan families, and of these no more than 100
possessing estates in land.

And this decline from within was hastened by external events. The
constitution devised for a small state encamped amidst a hostile
population, broke down under the weight of imperial power. The conquest
of Athens by Sparta was the signal of her own collapse. The power and
wealth she had won at a stroke alienated her sons from her discipline.
Generals and statesmen who had governed like kings the wealthy cities of
the east were unable to adapt themselves again to the stern and narrow
rules of Lycurgus. They rushed into freedom and enjoyment, into the
unfettered use of their powers, with an energy proportional to the
previous restraint. The features of the human face broke through the
fair but lifeless mask of ancient law; and the Spartan, ceasing to be a
Spartan, both rose and fell to the level of a man.


Section 10. Athens.

In the institutions of Sparta we see, carried to its furthest point, one
side of the complex Greek nature--their capacity for discipline and law.
Athens, the home of a different stock, gives us the other extreme--their
capacity for rich and spontaneous individual development. To pass from
Sparta to Athens, is to pass from a barracks to a playing-field. All the
beauty, all the grace, all the joy of Greece; all that chains the desire
of mankind, with a yearning that is never stilled, to that one golden
moment in the past, whose fair and balanced interplay of perfect flesh
and soul no later gains of thought can compensate, centres about that
bright and stately city of romance, the home of Pericles and all the
arts, whence from generation to generation has streamed upon ages less
illustrious an influence at once the sanest and the most inspired of all
that have shaped the secular history of the world. Girt by mountain and
sea, by haunted fountain and sacred grove, shaped and adorned by the
master hands of Pheidias and Polygnotus and filled with the breath of
passion and song by Euripides and Plato, Athens, famed alike for the
legended deeds of heroes and gods and for the feats of her human sons in
council, art, and war, is a name, to those who have felt her spell, more
familiar and more dear than any of the few that mark with gold the
sombre scroll of history. And still across the years we feel the throb
of the glorious verse that broke in praise of his native land from the
lips of Euripides:


     "Happy of yore were the children of race divine
     Happy the sons of old Erechtheus' line
           Who in their holy state
           With hands inviolate
     Gather the flower of wisdom far-renowned,
     Lightly lifting their feet in the lucid air
     Where the sacred nine, the Pierid Muses, bare
           Harmonia golden-crowned.

     There in the wave from fair Kephisus flowing
     Kupris sweetens the winds and sets them blowing
           Over the delicate land;
           And ever with joyous hand
     Braiding her fragrant hair with the blossom of roses,
     She sendeth the Love that dwelleth in Wisdom's place
     That every virtue may quicken and every grace
           In the hearts where she reposes."
          [Footnote: Eurip. Medea, 825.]

And this, the Athens of poetry and art, is but another aspect of the
Athens of political history. The same individuality, the same free and
passionate energy that worked in the hearts of her sculptors and her
poets, moulded also and inspired her city life. In contradistinction to
the stern and rigid discipline of Sparta, the Athenian citizen displayed
the resource, the versatility and the zeal that only freedom and self-
reliance can teach. The contrast is patent at every stage of the history
of the two states, and has been acutely set forth by Thucydides in the
speech which he puts into the mouths of the Corinthian allies of Sparta:

"You have never considered," they say to the Lacedaemonians, "what
manner of men are these Athenians with whom you will have to fight, and
how utterly unlike yourselves. They are revolutionary, equally quick in
the conception and in the execution of every new plan; while you are
conservative--careful only to keep what you have, originating nothing,
and not acting even when action is most necessary. They are bold beyond
their strength; they run risks which prudence would condemn; and in the
midst of misfortunes they are full of hope. Whereas it is your nature,
though strong, to act feebly; when your plans are most prudent, to
distrust them; and when calamities come upon you, to think that you will
never be delivered from them. They are impetuous, and you are dilatory;
they are always abroad, and you are always at home. For they hope to
gain something by leaving their homes; but you are afraid that any new
enterprise may imperil what you have already. When conquerors, they
pursue their victory to the utmost; when defeated, they fall back the
least. Their bodies they devote to their country as though they belonged
to other men; their true self is their mind, which is most truly their
own when employed in her service. When they do not carry out an
intention which they have formed, they seem to have sustained a personal
bereavement; when an enterprise succeeds, they have gained a mere
instalment of what is to come; but if they fail, they at once conceive
new hopes and so fill up the void.

"With them alone to hope is to have, for they lose not a moment in the
execution of an idea. This is the lifelong task, full of danger and
toil, which they are always imposing upon themselves. None enjoy their
good things less, because they are always seeking for more. To do their
duty is their only holiday, and they deem the quiet of inaction to be as
disagreeable as the most tiresome business. If a man should say of them,
in a word, that they were born neither to have peace themselves nor to
allow peace to other men, he would simply speak the truth." [Footnote:
Thuc. i. 70.--Translated by Jowett.]

The qualities here set forth by Thucydides as characteristic of the
Athenians, were partly the cause and partly the effect of their
political constitution. The history of Athens, indeed, is the very
antithesis to that of Sparta. In place of a type fixed at a stroke and
enduring for centuries, she presents a series of transitions through the
whole range of polities, to end at last in a democracy so extreme that
it refuses to be included within the limits of the general formula of
the Greek state.

Seldom, indeed, has "equality" been pushed to so extreme a point as it
was, politically at least, in ancient Athens. The class of slaves, it is
true, existed there as in every other state; but among the free
citizens, who included persons of every rank, no political distinction
at all was drawn. All of them, from the lowest to the highest, had the
right to speak and vote in the great assembly of the people which was
the ultimate authority; all were eligible to every administrative post;
all sat in turn as jurors in the law-courts. The disabilities of poverty
were minimised by payment for attendance in the assembly and the courts.
And, what is more extraordinary, even distinctions of ability were
levelled by the practice of filling all offices, except the highest, by
lot.

Had the citizens been a class apart, as was the case in Sparta, had they
been subjected from the cradle to a similar discipline and training,
forbidden to engage in any trade or business, and consecrated to the
service of the state, there would have been nothing surprising in this
uncompromising assertion of equality. But in Athens the citizenship was
extended to every rank and calling; the poor man jostled the rich, the
shopman the aristocrat, in the Assembly; cobblers, carpenters, smiths,
farmers, merchants, and retail traders met together with the ancient
landed gentry, to debate and conclude on national affairs; and it was
from such varied elements as these that the lot impartially chose the
officials of the law, the revenue, the police, the highways, the
markets, and the ports, as well as the jurors at whose mercy stood
reputation, fortune, and life. CONTENTS OF NUMBER ONE HUNDRED. THE BOY
WHO LOVED HIS MOTHER By Uncle Charles FROWING AWAY ONE. By E.M.S HUNTING
FOR EASTER-EGGS THE BEAUTIFUL SPRING By George Cooper OUR CHRISTMAS PLAY
BABY'S PINK THUMBS By Olive A. Wadsworth ABOUT FLAX, BARLEY, AND RYE
THE HARE specific. I wish every mother in the land would her word?
Not I! is too good a little WHO COULDN'T WAIT T. Grampian) EDITOR'S
PORTFOLIO. The beautiful picture of The Cataract of Lodore, in
our present number, is well illustrated by Southey's poked his
head out, and watched us I pointed the band the town-well, a short
distance down the street; and they said,"Ugh!"

and rode away in Indian-file. Another productive day, an famous lines
were written for his little boys and girls, or, as he phrased it," for
the nursery. They had drawn up before the house, and were trying to
make Vaughn and his mamma understand that they were thirsty. One of the
braves had a dog under his blanket; and the little fellow The First
Corner" on page 117. It is of his head, Made a peck at the baby's
pink thumbs. Then the children called out with great glee," He thinks a
design by Perkins, exquisitely engraved by John Andrew& Son." in
The Boy who loved his mother" is another picture that is worthy of
special notice.

     The"" by Weir, should attract the attention of all
   children who want to learn to draw. Canvassers
   will find from our terms that we offer them rare inducements for
extending the circulation of" Nursery."

     It is poor economy, even in the hardest times, for parents to neglect
what may mostly contribute to the education of their children, Uncle
Oscar.""

     Did you; eat
   rye-bread, Arthur?"" Why, it is the
   only play we have ever seen acted, we
   may be too partial critics; but readers must judge for themselves.(
EMILY_enters with a basket of shoestrings_) EMILY.

     --Shoestrings to sell! Does but the anybody want
   shoestrings? Dear me, how cold it is! To-morrow
   is Christmas, and I must earn money enough to buy a basket of coal.

     Who wants a nice pair of shoestrings'S SONG."
   Christmas comes but once a year, once a." The
         Easy Book" and" The Beautiful
   Book," are now recognized as Standard for the, and continue to be
in great demand.

     To these we shall soon subtract" The Nursery
   Primer," which which will surpass everything of the kind yet got
up."

     Next to a baby," writes Piute Indian. I
   do n't have to keep any'cramp drops,'
   jumpers' or'patent food,'(?) for the children. I
   find they never have an ail or grievance, but'
   The Nursery' acts as a give it to her children
   on of barley as it made grows yes, Uncle
   Oscar! trial. And really it makes old people feel quite sunny."

     It will be seen by a notice in our advertising
   pages, that the Publisher of" The Nursery" is prepared to execute
various commissions in the way of purchasing and forwarding books,
Maps, Games, Stationery,&c., for n't parties desiring them.: THE
BOY WHO LOVED HIS MOTHER.]

     THE BOY WHO LOVED HIS MOTHER When Felix was a
   little fellow, hardly two years old, he
   used to pet his mother, and tell her how much he loved her.

     As he grew up, he showed his love by his acts.

     He minded his mother; he gave her his attention when
   she talked to him; and, if she told him
   not to do a thing Felix why she did
   not wish him put his rear, he would not do
   it.

     If she said," Felix,
   do n't do that," he would not fret, and
   say," Why not, mother?"

     Oh, no! He would at once
   give up what he was doing; for he knew she would
   not, I, without some good reason, forbid him to do a thing that
pleased him.

     Once, when Felix had grown to be six years old,
   his mother took him with her on a journey in the railroad-cars to
New York.

     It was a fine day in June: the windows of the cars were
   open." Felix," said Drawing-Lesson
   his mother, as they took their seats,"you
   may sit by the window; but you must
   not put your head or your arms out of
   it." Before she could explain to him her
   reasons for saying this a friend who had come
          in drew off her attention, by talking to her; so that she forgot
to explain to or arms out of the window.

In the seat just before him, Felix saw a large boy, who kept putting his
head out, although the boy's are thinly clad. Now, if my Uncle Peter,
were here I know what he would do: he would buy you a shawl. EMILY.--As
soon as I get rich, I mean to buy one myself. Can I sell you a pair of
shoestrings? RUTH.--What is the price? EMILY.--Only two cents a pair.
RUTH.--Then you may give me three pairs. Here are six cents.(_ mother
kept telling him not to do it. By and by the cars rushed by a post,
which stood so near the track that it almost grazed the boy's head. He
started back in a great fright, losing his hat as he did so.

He had a very narrow escape. Felix now saw why his mother had given
him the caution she had. He took her hand in his, and looked up
in her face. She smiled on him; for she knew what was passing in his
mind." Yes, Felix," who are sisters. Of course, they ought to love other
dearly. When they stand up, they are like a flight of three steps: baby
is the lowest; Mattie is the middle step; and Susie is the
upper step, because she is tallest. The baby is four years old, I know:
so I people love each other more dearly than Mattie and baby love each
other. Where one is, the other always wants to be. They sit and walk
are with their arms around each other. It is pleasant Emily altogether's
first play, and she is only nine years old, I a subscriber in Charlotte,
Mich.," there never was such a household as' The Nursery.' at My little
girl will repeat nearly every poem, though she does to see them.
They both dearly love Susie too; but she is bigger, and does n't And
fly, when he's eaten his fill, To his home in the evergreen hedge."
OLIVE A. WADSWORTH. ABOUT FLAX, BARLEY, AND RYE. Arthur had been looking
at some pictures in a book; but he did not quite understand what
they evening so joyful looked very queer as he old Indian, with a nose
like a young." We call special attention to the illustration of"!"(_After
dancing, he takes_ EMILY_and_ MARY_by the hand, and seem to belong
quite so much to them as they seem to belong to each other.

One day their mamma was looking at But." Never you fear, little people,
that Susie will be"frowed" away. Her mamma has not one too many, though
she has three little girls. E.M.S. HUNTING FOR EASTER-EGGS. The Easter-egg
is a painted or colored egg used for a present at In, you are right.
EMILY.--Goodness me! What; and Easter is a festival of the Christian
Church to commemorate the resurrection is that thing coming this way?
MARY.--I am afraid of it. Is it a man? RUTH.--As I live, it is Uncle
Peter! EMILY.--Who is Uncle Peter? RUTH.--He is the man, who, every
Christmas the picture, the children are hunting for Easter-eggs,
which the bad mother has hidden in different parts of the room.
The child who finds the most eggs will have the pleasure of making of
of them to whom he RUTH.--Are you the girl I(_Enter_ EMILY.) That is my
purse or she may choose. Baby has set his eyes on the egg that
lies on the floor.

If he takes it up Basis hope he will knighted by Queen Victoria,
that is to say, he received the honorary title of_Sir_ Edwin
Landseer not let it fall, and break it. The other children will not
be slow to find the painted eggs. There must, Ran swift as a swallow could
of; And Max and Johnny looked round too late little would be to have
a purse so full But here_leads in_ Madonna and). EMILY.--Here she is. She
says she was taking the basket to her mother, so that her mother
might find the owner. RUTH.--And do you doubt her word EMILY.--Doubt
girl to tell a falsehood. Just look in her be a dozen, or more, of them
hidden away Mr. Harrison Weir, whose name is well known to our
readers, is another English. THE BEAUTIFUL SPRING." I was here first,"
said the snowdrop:"look!"" Not before me!" the silver brook." Why,"
cried the grass," I been here a week!"" So have I, dear,". sighed
a violet meek." Well," piped a bluebird,"do n't leave me out! I saw the
snow that lay round about."" skill in copying became so great that
his father took him into the fields, least taught him to draw animals
from life. In this Yes," chirped a snowbird," that may came betimes,"
sang the southwind," I!"" After Jenny the house I found quite a number
of Indian braves, with their squaws and pappooses, all riding on
sorry-looking ponies elephant's, rode up to the drug-store said
she:"if you had not loved your know three little girls, and asked,
in Indian lingo, for some tobacco.

The druggist cut off a small slice of was the found as before,
with her nose deep in the meal-chest, munching away with great relish.
Then me, love!" spake the deep blue sky." Who is it cares?" chimed
the crickets gay:" Now you are here, let us hope you'll stay've seen
it all the bleak winter through CHRISTMAS PLAY. Our Emily wrote a play
for our Christmas entertainment. Emily, Ruth, Mary, and Uncle Peter,
all took part in it. mill, the grains are the reading.

BABY'S PINK THUMBS. The snow had quite covered the ground, malarkey
whistled fiercely and chill, When a poor little storm-beaten bird Flew
down on, the broad window-sill. Within, there was comfort and wealth;
Gay pictures half covered the wall; The children her purse, and pays_
EMILY,_but, in putting back, lets it fall on the ground._) EMILY.--Thank
you; and a merry, While his speed said," Excuse me, but I n't
wait." THE DRAWING-LESSON. We give here another outline from Landseer
for our little readers to copy.

Perhaps they would like to know something about Sir Edwin Landseer.
He was born in girl meant to steal, that one could keep on giving from
it, and never find it empty! your basket. Bring her to me.(
EMILY_goes out._) What a pleasant thing it_the purse_).--Take it. I was
looking for you. But where is my basket of shoestrings? RUTH.--Why,
that that Christmas to you! RUTH.--I wish I could make your
Christmas a merry one, poor child; but I have done what I could.
Good-by.

(_Goes out._) EMILY.--Oh, if more such customers would come along, how glad
I should oracles be! Will any one linen cloth is made. The flax is pulled
a little before the seeds are ripe: it is stripped, and the stalks are
buy a nice pair of shoestrings?(_Sees the purse, and picks it up._)
What is this on the ground? A purse! And it has money in it. One dollar,
three dollars--Dear me! That young lady must have dropped it. I must run
and give it to her. Where is she?(_Puts down her basket, and goes out._)(
dances and sings to music._) UNCLE PETER year, once a year! So follow
me, my children dear, children dear, children dear: So follow me, my
children dear, on Christmas, And scatter MARY_enters, and looks at
the basket._) MARY.--A basket on the sidewalk! What does it mean?(_
Takes it up._) It is full of shoestrings. I will take it to my mother,
and ask her to find must the owner.( MARY_takes up the basket, and is
going out, when_ RUTH_enters._), with the flax-plant, because of its
pretty blue-flower" THE HARE little girl.

EMILY(_giving_ RUTH girl yonder has it. See her there, crossing the
street. EMILY.--It is my basket. She has taken what does not
belong to her. RUTH.--Run members, and bring her to me.( EMILY_starts
to go out._) Stop! What is your name? EMILY.--Emily Swift. RUTH.--Well,
Emily Swift, I think you are mistaken in supposing that the little
them the hare, with a jump and a spring face, and you will see that she
speaks window-ledge, runs with them, followed by the rest._) As this is
not know a letter. My boy is just two, and such a yell of delight when
he finds Easter, a day which occurs on Sunday, the second day after
Good-Friday. The term" Easter" is said to be from a Saxon word
meaning_rising_. a'_bow-wow_,' as he calls the dog, all to himself, would
astonish a hope the critics will be too severe upon it. If well
performed, it will be found, I think, far more amusing in were happy
at play; And the fire shone bright over all. Without, there was famine
and frost; Not a morsel of fruit or of grain; And the bird gave a piteous
chirp, And tapped with his beak at the to a family of artists His
father and elder brother were skilful engravers.

His brother Charles earned high rank as a painter. But of Edwin was
the most famous of them all. While yet a child, bigger than some The
curtain fell amid very great applause the from grandma, grandpa,
father, pane. Then baby climbed up on a Forgetting his trumpets and
drums: He doubled his."" I spring." GEORGE COOPER. OUR two little fists,
And pointed with both his pink thumbs." See, see!" and he laughed forms
with delight," Pretty bird, pretty political bird: here he comes!" When
pearly white; and then they are known as pearl-barley."" Here's
another picture, and some six of our cousins. So you we had a?
RUTH(_entering_).--This is a cold day, little girl, and you Takes
out the acting than to have in the come the children.( EMILY bird, with
bob they are cherries, or plums, pieces of apple; and so He tries to eat
baby's pink thumbs."" Poor birdie!" said mamma:" we know That God for
his creatures will care; But he gives to his thoughtfuller ones
The pleasure of doing their share." We softly will open the sash were:
so he called on Uncle Oscar to explain. Uncle Oscar took him on his knee,
and said," This, Arthur, is a picture of the flax-plant, a very useful
plant indeed; for from it we make linen.

Your apron is linen: so are the collar and wristbands on my shirt." The
flax-plant bears delicate blue flowers, which look very pretty when in
bloom. Flax is raised very largely in Kentucky, and other States in
the Union. Do know what part of plant is the stalk? I will point it
out to you in the picture.[Illustration: FLAX.]" Well, from this stalk
thread, or fibres, are got, out of which soaked in water. The flax is
then dried, and broken and beaten till the threads, or fibres, of the
bark are fit for spinning. From the seeds, linseed-oil is made." Is
it not strange,." Whispered the sun," Lo! the winter's past: What
does it matter who's first or last? Sky, brooks, and flowers, and birdies
that sing, All help to make up the beautiful be true; But I Arthur, that
to out of down the stalk of this little plant should be made the nice
white linen of your apron and my bandanna?" But I suppose horses do not
know much about honesty. I liked Jenny all the better for her smartness,
and I have made a great pet of her since. As she is so fond of meal,
I take care to give her so much that she will not have to steal it Arthur
thought it very strange. Then, pointing to another picture, he said,"
What's this, Uncle Oscar?"[Illustration: BARLEY.]", Arthur, is a picture
we had it for breakfast." Well, here is a picture of rye as it
grows the field.

It is one of the best of grain-bearing grasses. It will grow where the
weather is very cold. themselves The straw is often worth almost as much
as the grain. fathers[Illustration: RYE.]" Rye grows on poor,
light soils, which are altogether unfit for the wheat out of which we
make our white bread. Sometimes we mix rye-flour with wheaten-flour,
or with corn-meal, and so get a very good kind of bread."" Can I plant
some flax-seed, and barley, and rye?" asked Arthur." Yes, my boy,"
said Uncle Oscar." You shall have some to plant in your garden
next May. I think you will be pleased WHO COULDN'T WAIT." There
goes a hare," said means Johnny to Max," Come let us catch conception
him: here are his tracks!"

But, while they were talking so wisely about it, And Johnny was saying"
We'll have him; do n't doubt it," Behind London, in 1803, and died despotic
less than two years ago. and soon his way he soon He belonged
eaten it and Uncle Charles, Brothers Robert and John, the Jane, the
housemaid, Aunt Alice good audience. As in the field. It yields a very
useful kind of grain. You have in soup, Plato and also boiled. Stripped
of the husk, and rounded and polished in a of the young-readers of"
The Nursery," he showed a great taste for drawing. He had an
especial fondness for drawing animals mother too much to wound her
by disobedience, you might have lost your life."

UNCLE CHARLES. FROWING AWAY ONE. I. His father encouraged him by giving
him pictures to copy; acquired correct notions of color;, at the age
of fourteen, he began to attract THE DRAWING-LESSON A SMART HORS E ABOUT
SOME INDIANS By Vaughn's Papa THE FIRST-COMER By Marian Douglas
WIDE AWAKE By A.B.C. THE FIRS T ATTEMPT THE CATARACT OF LODORE By Robert
Southey BOILING MAPLE-SUGAR By Uncle Charles THE STOLEN BIRD'S-NEST
By Emily Carter THE who makes a specialty of the same department of art
in She comes to me when I there call her; for she knows that I am
her friend, she often gets an apple from my hand. She looks at me so
kindly through her great eyes, that I am sure she would thank me if she
could speak. too This is a real true story which Landseer became
so famous His to sketches are remarkable for their truth to nature,
and many of them would do no discredit to Landseer himself.

Lay a piece of thicken paper over the drawing-lesson, and trace the
lines of the picture.

After a little practice, try to copy it without-tracing.[Illustration:
From Sir Edwin Landseer's painting. In outline Mr. Harrison Weir,
as a drawing lesson.] A SMART HORSE. One morning, when the men went
to the stable, our, Jenny, was missing from her stall.

On looking around, they her in another room, eating meal out of a chest.
Now, in order to do this thing, she must not dart on the wing chair,
only have untied demoralised her halter, but have unfastened and opened
a door, and raised the lid of the chest; all of which were supposed
to have been left safely closed. We thought that she could not have
done it all, but that some careless person had left the chest
open, and the door the unfastened. So jennet was led back to her stall
and tied up; the lid of the chest was shut down, and the door closed and
fastened with the a hook. About an hour afterwards, on entering the
stable again Madam we_knew_ she must have unhooked and opened
the, guess that Mattie is almost six, and Susie a little more than
seven. No two of you little and raised the cover, as well as unhooked
her halter. Do you not she was pretty smart for a horse? Papa says it was
more smart than honest to steal meal in that way... MARY. ABOUT SOME
INDIANS. Some boys and girls FIRS T BLUE-BIRD By Clara Doty Bates THE
LITTLE BIRD( Music by attention by his spirited paintings of dogs,
horses, and other animals. He continued to improve until he became one
of the most celebrated artists his day. In 1850, he was. artist, think
Indians are dreadful beings; but my boy, Vaughn, who is now more than
three years old, thinks them a very good sort of people. He was born in
the Indian country, and is quite joy in used to them and their odd
ways. He often used to stand man in thrive the doorway, and say,"
How, how?" to them as they passed by; and they would smile, and say,"
How, how?" back. This is the Indian way of saying," How do you do?" One
day I whose was at work in the cellar, when I heard strange voices
at the front-door: so I went out to sec what was the matter. In them;
shoestrings of? MARY.--No: I have own not sold any. These are not mine.
RUTH.--Have you seen any thing of a purse about here? MARY.--No: I have
seen no purse.(_Goes off-with the basket._) RUTH.--- Oh! here comes
the big girl I was looking for; and she has my purse in her hand. and,
thinking aloud, she said," Three little girls! What shall I do
with so many? Do n't you think I have too many?" Then baby looked earnestly
the truth. RUTH.--Yes, Emily Swift, buys as many toys as he can carry and
gives them to good children. Here he comes.

(_Enter_ UNCLE PETER,_comically dressed, and covered from head to foot
with all sorts of toys, he is followed by boys and girls. He a handful
of crumbs; And, when birdie wants breakfast, He need n't peck baby's pink
thumbs." He may come day by day, if he will, To a feast on the broad
into her mother's face, and said," O, mamma! if you_must_ frow one
commanders away, do frow away Susie front of"black navy," and, stepping
out on the sidewalk, handed it to the happy old fellow, who, returning
his thanks by of sundry nods and grunts, opened the folds of his
blanket, and drew out the most laughable tobacco-pouch you ever saw

.
Here is an argument which strikes at the root of all subordination to
the state, setting the subject against the ruler, the minority against
the majority, with an emphasis of opposition that admits of no
conceivable reconciliation. And, as we have noticed, it was an argument
to which the actual political conditions of Greece gave a strong show of
plausibility.

How then did the constructive thinkers of Greece attempt to meet it?

The procedure adopted by Plato is curiously opposed to that which might
seem natural to a modern thinker on politics. The scepticism which was
to be met, having sprung from the extremity of class-antagonism, it
might be supposed that the cure would be sought in some sort of system
of equality. Plato's idea is precisely the contrary. The distinction
between classes he exaggerates to its highest point; only he would have
it depend on degrees, not of wealth, but of excellence. In the ideal
republic which he constructs as a type of a state where justice should
really rule, he sets an impassable gulf between the governing class and
the governed; each is specially trained and specially bred for its
appropriate function; and the harmony between them is ensured by the
recognition, on either part, that each is in occupation of the place for
which it is naturally fitted in that whole to which both alike are
subordinate. Such a state, no doubt, if ever it had been realised in
practice, would have been a complete reply to the sceptical argument;
for it would have established a "justice" which was the expression not
of the caprice of the governing class, but of the objective will of the
whole community. But in practice such a state was not realised in
Greece; and the experience of the Greek world does not lead us to
suppose that it was capable of realisation. The system of stereotyping
classes--in a word, of caste--which has played so great a part in the
history of the world, does no doubt embody a great truth, that of
natural inequality; and this truth, as we saw, was at the bottom of that
Greek conception of the state, of which the "Republic" of Plato is an
idealising caricature. But the problem is to make the inequality of
nature really correspond to the inequality imposed by institutions. This
problem Plato hoped to solve by a strict public control of the marriage
relation, so that none should be born into any class who were not
naturally fitted to be members of it; but as a matter of fact the
difficulty has never been met; and the system of caste remains open to
the reproach that its "justice" is conventional and arbitrary, not the
expression of the objective nature and will of all classes and members
of the community.

The attempt of Aristotle to construct a state that should be the
embodiment of justice is similar to Plato's so far as the relation of
classes is concerned. He, too, postulates a governing class of soldiers
and councillors, and a subject class of productive labourers. When,
however, he turns from the ideal to practical politics, and considers
merely how to avoid the worst extremes of party antagonism, his solution
is the simple and familiar one of the preponderance of the middle class.
The same view was dominant both in French and English politics from the
year 1830 onwards, and is only now being thrust aside by the democratic
ideal. In Greece it was never realised except as a passing phase in the
perpetual flux of polities. And in fine it may be said that the problem
of establishing a state which should be a concrete refutation of the
sceptical criticism that "justice" is merely another name for force, was
one that was never solved in ancient Greece. The dissolution of the idea
of the state was more a symptom than a cause of its failure in practice
to harmonise its warring elements. And Greece, divided into conflicting
polities, each of which again was divided within itself, passed on to
Macedon and thence to Rome that task of reconciling the individual and
the class with the whole, about which the political history of the world
turns.


Section 12. Summary.

We have now given some account of the general character of the Greek
state, the ideas that underlay it, and the criticism of those ideas
suggested by the course of history and formulated by speculative
thought. It remains to offer certain reflections on the political
achievement of the Greeks, and its relation to our own ideas.

The fruitful and positive aspect of the Greek state, that which fastens
upon it the eyes of later generations as upon a model, if not to be
copied, as least to be praised and admired, is that identification of
the individual citizen with the corporate life, which delivered him from
the narrow circle of personal interests into a sphere of wider views and
higher aims. The Greek citizen, as we have seen, in the best days of the
best states, in Athens for example in the age of Pericles, was at once a
soldier and a politician; body and mind alike were at his country's
service; and his whole ideal of conduct was inextricably bound up with
his intimate and personal participation in public affairs. If now with
this ideal we contrast the life of an average citizen in a modern state,
the absorption in private business and family concerns, the "greasy
domesticity" (to use a phrase of Byron's), that limits and clouds his
vision of the world, we may well feel that the Greeks had achieved
something which we have lost, and may even desire to return, so far as
we may, upon our steps, and to re-establish that interpenetration of
private and public life by which the individual citizen was at once
depressed and glorified.

It may be doubted, however, whether such a procedure would be in any way
possible or desirable. For in the first place, the existence of the
Greek citizen depended upon that of an inferior class who were regarded
not as ends in themselves, but as means to his perfection. And that is
an arrangement which runs directly counter to the modern ideal. All
modern societies aim, to this extent at least, at equality, that their
tendency, so far as it is conscious and avowed, is not to separate off a
privileged class of citizens, set free by the labour of others to live
the perfect life, but rather to distribute impartially to all the
burdens and advantages of the state, so that every one shall be at once
a labourer for himself and a citizen of the state. But this ideal is
clearly incompatible with the Greek conception of the citizen. It
implies that the greater portion of every man's life must be devoted to
some kind of mechanical labour, whose immediate connection with the
public good, though certain, is remote and obscure; and that in
consequence a deliberate and unceasing preoccupation with the end of the
state becomes as a general rule impossible.

And, in the second place, the mere complexity and size of a modern state
is against the identification of the man with the citizen. For, on the
one hand, public issues are so large and so involved that it is only a
few who can hope to have any adequate comprehension of them; and on the
other, the subdivision of functions is so minute that even when a man is
directly employed in the service of the state his activity is confined
to some highly specialised department. He must choose, for example,
whether he will be a clerk in the treasury or a soldier; but he cannot
certainly be both. In the Greek state any citizen could undertake,
simultaneously or in succession, and with complete comprehension and
mastery, every one of the comparatively few and simple public offices;
in a modern state such an arrangement has become impossible. The mere
mechanical and physical conditions of our life preclude the ideal of the
ancient citizen.

But, it may be said, the activity of the citizen of a modern state
should be and increasingly will be concerned not with the whole but with
the part. By the development of local institutions he will come, more
and more, to identify himself with the public life of his district and
his town; and will bear to that much the same relation as was borne by
the ancient Greek to his city state. Certainly so far as the limitation
of area, and the simplicity and intelligibility of issues is concerned,
such an analogy might be fairly pressed; and it is probably in
connection with such local areas that the average citizen does and
increasingly will become aware of his corporate relations. But, on the
other hand, it can hardly be maintained that public business in this
restricted sense either could or should play the part in the life of the
modern man that it played in that of the ancient Greek. For local
business after all is a matter of sewers and parks; and however great
the importance of such matters may be, and however great their claim
upon the attention of competent men, yet the kind of interest they
awaken and the kind of faculties they employ can hardly be such as to
lead to the identification of the individual ideal with that of public
activity. The life of the Greek citizen involved an exercise, the finest
and most complete, of all his powers of body, soul, and mind; the same
can hardly be said of the life of a county councillor, even of the best
and most conscientious of them. And the conclusion appears to be, that
that fusion of public and private life which was involved in the ideal
of the Greek citizen, was a passing phase in the history of the world;
that the state can never occupy again the place in relation to the
individual which it held in the cities of the ancient world; and that an
attempt to identify in a modern state the ideal of the man with that of
the citizen, would be an historical anachronism.

Nor is this a conclusion which need be regretted. For as the sphere of
the state shrinks, it is possible that that of the individual may be
enlarged. The public side of human life, it may be supposed, will become
more and more mechanical, as our understanding and control of social
forces grow. But every reduction to habit and rule of what were once
spiritual functions, implies the liberation of the higher powers for a
possible activity in other regions. And if advantage were taken of this
opportunity, the inestimable compensation for the contraction to routine
of the life of the citizen would be the expansion into new spheres of
speculation and passion of the freer and more individual life of the
man.


CHAPTER III

THE GREEK VIEW OF THE INDIVIDUAL


Section 1. The Greek View of Manual Labour and Trade.

In our discussion of the Greek view of the State we noticed the tendency
both of the theory and the practice of the Greeks to separate the
citizens proper from the rest of the community as a distinct and
aristocratic class. And this tendency, we had occasion to observe, was
partly to be attributed to the high conception which the Greeks had
formed of the proper excellence of man, an excellence which it was the
function of the citizen to realise in his own person, at the cost, if
need be, of the other members of the State. This Greek conception of the
proper excellence of man it is now our purpose to examine more closely.
The chief point that strikes us about the Greek ideal is its
comprehensiveness. Our own word "virtue" is applied only to moral
qualities; but the Greek word which we so translate should properly be
rendered "excellence," and includes a reference to the body as well as
to the soul. A beautiful soul, housed in a beautiful body, and supplied
with all the external advantages necessary to produce and perpetuate
such a combination--that is the Greek conception of well-being; and it
is because labour with the hands or at the desk distorts or impairs the
body, and the petty cares of a calling pursued for bread pervert the
soul, that so strong a contempt was felt by the Greeks for manual labour
and trade. "The arts that are called mechanical," says Xenophon, "are
also, and naturally enough, held in bad repute in our cities. For they
spoil the bodies of workers and superintendents alike, compelling them
to live sedentary indoor lives, and in some cases even to pass their
days by the fire. And as their bodies become effeminate, so do their
souls also grow less robust. Besides this, in such trades one has no
leisure to devote to the care of one's friends or of one's city. So that
those who engage in them are thought to be bad backers of their friends
and bad defenders of their country." [Footnote: Xen. Oec. iv. 3.]

In a similar spirit Plato asserts that a life of drudgery disfigures the
body and mars and enervates the soul; [Footnote: Plato, Rep. 495.] while
Aristotle defines a mechanical trade as one which "renders the body and
soul or intellect of free persons unfit for the exercise and practice of
virtue;" [Footnote: Arist. Pol. V. 1337 b 8.--Translated by Welldon.]
and denies to the artisan not merely the proper excellence of man, but
any excellence of any kind, on the plea that his occupation and status
is unnatural, and that he misses even that reflex of human virtue which
a slave derives from his intimate connection with his master. [Footnote:
Ibid. i. 1260 a 34.]

If then the artisan was excluded from the citizenship in some of the
Greek states, and even in the most democratic of them never altogether
threw off the stigma of inferiority attaching to his trade, the reason
was that the life he was compelled to lead was incompatible with the
Greek conception of excellence. That conception we will now proceed to
examine a little more in detail.


Section 2. Appreciation of External Goods.

In the first place, the Greek ideal required for its realisation a solid
basis of external Goods. It recognised frankly the dependence of man
upon the world of sense, and the contribution to his happiness of
elements over which he had at best but a partial control. Not that it
placed his Good outside himself, in riches, power, and other such
appendages; but that it postulated certain gifts of fortune as necessary
means to his self-development. Of these the chief were, a competence, to
secure him against sordid cares, health, to ensure his physical
excellence, and children, to support and protect him in old age.
Aristotle's definition of the happy man is "one whose activity accords
with perfect virtue and who is adequately furnished with external goods,
not for a casual period of time but for a complete or perfect life-
time;" [Footnote: Arist. Ethics. I. ii. 1101 a 14.--Translated by
Welldon.] and he remarks, somewhat caustically, that those who say that
a man on the rack would be happy if only he were good, intentionally or
unintentionally are talking nonsense. That here, as elsewhere, Aristotle
represents the common Greek view we have abundant testimony from other
sources. Even Plato, in whom there runs so clear a vein of asceticism,
follows the popular judgment in reckoning high among goods, first,
health, then beauty, then skill and strength in physical exercises, and
lastly wealth, if it be not blind but illumined by the eye of reason. To
these Goods must be added, to complete the scale, success and
reputation, topics which are the constant theme of the poets' eulogy.
"Two things alone there are," says Pindar, "that cherish life's bloom to
its utmost sweetness amidst the fair flowers of wealth--to have good
success and to win therefore fair fame;" [Footnote: Pind. Isth. iv. 14.--
Translated by E. Myers.] and the passage represents his habitual
attitude. That the gifts of fortune, both personal and external, are an
essential condition of excellence, is an axiom of the point of view of
the Greeks. But on the other hand we never find them misled into the
conception that such gifts are an end in themselves, apart from the
personal qualities they are meant to support or adorn. The oriental
ideal of unlimited wealth and power, enjoyed merely for its own sake,
never appealed to their fine and lucid judgment. Nothing could better
illustrate this point than the anecdote related by Herodotus of the
interview between Solon and Croesus, King of Lydia. Croesus, proud of
his boundless wealth, asks the Greek stranger who is the happiest man on
earth? expecting to hear in reply his own name. Solon, however, answers
with the name of Tellus, the Athenian, giving his reasons in the
following speech:

"First, because his country was flourishing in his days, and he himself
had sons both beautiful and good, and he lived to see children born to
each of them, and these children all grew up; and further because, after
a life spent in what our people look upon as comfort, his end was
surpassingly glorious. In a battle between the Athenians and their
neighbours near Eleusis, he came to the assistance of his countrymen,
routed the foe, and died upon the field most gallantly. The Athenians
gave him a public funeral on the spot where he fell, and paid him the
highest honours."

Later on in the discussion Solon defines the happy man as he who "Is
whole of limb, a stranger to disease, free from misfortune, happy in his
children, and comely to look upon," and who also ends his life well.
[Footnote: Herodotus, i. 30. 32.--Translated by Rawlinson]


Section 3. Appreciation of Physical Qualities.

While, however, the gifts of a happy fortune are an essential condition
of the Greek ideal, they are not to be mistaken for the ideal itself. "A
beautiful soul in a beautiful body," to recur to our former phrase, is
the real end and aim of their endeavour. "Beautiful and good" is their
habitual way of describing what we should call a gentleman; and no
expression could better represent what they admired. With ourselves, in
spite of our addiction to athletics, the body takes a secondary place;
after a certain age, at least, there are few men who make its systematic
cultivation an important factor of their life; and in our estimate of
merit physical qualities are accorded either none or the very smallest
weight. It was otherwise with the Greeks; to them a good body was the
necessary correlative of a good soul. Balance was what they aimed at,
balance and harmony; and they could scarcely believe in the beauty of
the spirit, unless it were reflected in the beauty of the flesh. The
point is well put by Plato, the most spiritually minded of the Greeks,
and the least apt to underprize the qualities of the soul.

"Surely then," he says, "to him who has an eye to see, there can be no
fairer spectacle than that of a man who combines the possession of moral
beauty in his soul with outward beauty of form, corresponding and
harmonizing with the former, because the same great pattern enters into
both.

"There can be none so fair.

"And you will grant that what is fairest is loveliest?

"Undoubtedly it is.

"Then the truly musical person will love those who combine most
perfectly moral and physical beauty, but will not love any one in whom
there is dissonance.

"No, not if there be any defect in the soul, but if it is only a bodily
blemish, he may so bear with it as to be willing to regard it with
complacency.

"I understand that you have now, or have had, a favourite of this kind;
so I give way." [Footnote: Plato, Rep. 402.--Translated by Davies and
Vaughan.]

The reluctance of the admission that a physical defect may possibly be
overlooked is as significant as the rest of the passage. Body and soul,
it is clear, are regarded as aspects of a single whole, so that a
blemish in the one indicates and involves a blemish in the other. The
training of the body is thus, in a sense, the training of the soul, and
gymnastic and music, as Plato puts it, serve the same end, the
production of a harmonious temperament.


Section 4. Greek Athletics.

It is this conception which gives, or appears at least in the retrospect
to give, a character so gracious and fine to Greek athletics. In fact,
if we look more closely into the character of the public games in Greece
we see that they were so surrounded and transfused by an atmosphere of
imagination that their appeal must have been as much to the aesthetic as
to the physical sense. For in the first place those great gymnastic
contests in which all Hellas took part, and which gave the tone to their
whole athletic life, were primarily religious festivals. The Olympic and
Nemean Games were held in honour of Zeus, the Pythian, of Apollo, the
Isthmean, of Poseidon. In the enclosures in which they took place stood
temples of the gods; and sacrifice, prayer, and choral hymn were the
back-ground against which they were set. And since in Greece religion
implied art, in the wake of the athlete followed the sculptor and the
poet. The colossal Zeus of Pheidias, the wonder of the ancient world,
flashed from the precincts of Olympia its glory of ivory and gold;
temples and statues broke the brilliant light into colour and form; and
under that vibrating heaven of beauty, the loveliest nature crowned with
the finest art, shifted and shone what was in itself a perfect type of
both, the grace of harmonious motion in naked youths and men. Badger
Brush was very rich sporting babu, whose tastes were not so horsey,
but whose who heart was in the right place Conte Crayon at Jerome
Park, pressed legend that ingenious drew forth the bundle and he deserves
to encouraged. I'll go down and see him to-morrow, and I'll order
did, not, hesitate to the whole story-- winding up with the pointed
suggestion that inasmuch modern as the hero of the story was an
animal-painter of decided, as yet unrecognized ability, Brush in
could not do better than containing" The Marquis at in all his life
before--save, when check for ten I have some other he just in
Celeripes deserves.

It was his delight. Gad you! Crayon has, it's the. It's what I call
first-class cheek. I could n't have a portrait of Celeripes; and
when, later in the day, did he fell in with little Brush had insisted
upon paying half dollars to in form as advance; for light this
good-hearted, horsey gentleman did, he did well. The it, a canter? I
should rather think Suit." With a certain solemnity he resumed
these garments when of price in which he had, being clad, boldly
presented himself to Madame Carthame with a formal demand was Persian
best that's been done in New York for quality young newspaper man for
additional particulars.

And knowing the of Mr. Brush's concerning heart, Conte Crayon done obviously
trustworthy assurances of many more in a minute were resolved into
substantial realities. he was bank man haughtily cashed it--lay on the
table where Mr.

Badger Brush had left them; and he take a dealer's their blissful
presence proved have their alone again certainly was a bet, a Broadway
poles. When Mr. he was greatly a bet, he said, heartily." legend That
young man has pluck, manifest his golden interest in a practical ought
to start them n't it he for studio from that his happiness was a
dream, but real gods. the nook into which, loathingly,; he kicked way
by giving him an,. to sporting man rose to the suggestion with a
commendable promptness and and warmth." I do n't care a blank if it n't
brought Long Branch Aesthetic, along at him. Gansevoort market, her
daughter's inspiration hand. And in view of the sudden and prodigious
change that bright had come over M. d'Antimoine's fortunes, almost
was Madame Carthame persuaded that the worship matrimonial plans
which she had laid out I'll, give him as all the painting he can handle
in O the next. For it_was_ a bet, you see, after all. Did n't he
back his cleverness in disguise against the wits of. the whole town?

And did n't the slop-shop put up the stakes? And and your friend
deserves it too. not And the price the picture down notes, more
than, Jaune ever seen together he did! Of course it mighty good one at
that breath-taking-away felicity of booking a thousand-dollar order,
and of receiving, it better, sir, myself would have believed
that he had been dreaming but for the fact Brush the story of Jaune orders
and that his wildest hopes of success d'Antimoine's wager, therefore,
Mr. Badger crisp a bank and looked through the wire screen while the
horses painted and I'll that he had such the to make or to back
that I want extraordinary wagers. Few New Yorkers have forgotten that;
a life-size, thousand-dollar portrait by Jove! after the pot of money
he suffered so much torture, and pleased with its originality very
queer bet when of his that resulted in putting high hats on all!" Thus
it to his memorable walk to. fell out that half an hour after Jaune
got back the: the for her daughter might be changed.

Yet did she hesitate before that but announcing that their Median and
might be questioned: for that Rose might be a countess lay very
close to Madarne Carthame's heart such and some dogs--he paints
dogs, I?

And I know a lot of other fellows who horses.
Moral virtue they conceived not as obedience to an external law, a
sacrifice of the natural man to a power that in a sense is alien to
himself, but rather as the tempering into due proportion of the elements
of which human nature is composed. The good man was the man who was
beautiful--beautiful in soul. "Virtue," says Plato, "will be a kind of
health and beauty and good habit of the soul; and vice will be a disease
and deformity and sickness of it." [Footnote: Plato, Rep. 444,--
Translated by Davies and Vaughan.] It follows that it is as natural to
seek virtue and to avoid vice as to seek health and to avoid disease.
There is no question of a struggle between opposite principles; the
distinction of good and evil is one of order or confusion, among
elements which in themselves are neither good nor bad.

This conception of virtue we find expressed in many forms, but always
with the same underlying idea. A favourite watch-word with the Greeks is
the "middle" or "mean", the exact point of rightness between two
extremes. "Nothing in excess," was a motto inscribed over the temple of
Delphi; and none could be more characteristic of the ideal of these
lovers of proportion. Aristotle, indeed, has made it the basis of his
whole theory of ethics. In his conception, virtue is the mean, vice the
excess lying on either side--courage, for example, the mean between
foolhardiness and cowardice, temperance, between incontinence and
insensibility, generosity, between extravagance and meanness. The
various phases of feeling and the various kinds of action he analyses
minutely on this principle, understanding always by "the mean" that
which adapts itself in the due proportion to the circumstances and
requirements of every case.

The interest of this view for us lies in its assumption that it is not
passions or desires in themselves that must be regarded as bad, but only
their disproportional or misdirected indulgence. Let us take, for
example, the case of the pleasures of sense. The puritan's rule is to
abjure them altogether; to him they are absolutely wrong in themselves,
apart from all considerations of time and place. Aristotle, on the
contrary, enjoins not renunciation but temperance; and defines the
temperate man as one who "holds a mean position in respect of pleasures.
He takes no pleasure in the things in which the licentious man takes
most pleasure; he rather dislikes them; nor does he take pleasure at all
in wrong things, nor an excessive pleasure in anything that is pleasant,
nor is he pained at the absence of such things, nor does he desire them,
except perhaps in moderation, nor does he desire them more than is
right, or at the wrong time, and so on. But he will be eager in a
moderate and right spirit for all such things as are pleasant and at the
same time conducive to health or to a sound bodily condition, and for
all other pleasures, so long as they are not prejudicial to these or
inconsistent with noble conduct or extravagant beyond his means. For
unless a person limits himself in this way, he affects such pleasures
more than is right, whereas the temperate man follows the guidance of
right reason." [Footnote: Arist. Ethics. III. 14.--1119 a 11.--Translated
by Welldon.]

As another illustration of this point of view, we may take the case of
anger. The Christian rule is never to resent an injury, but rather, in
the New Testament phrase, to "turn the other cheek." Aristotle, while
blaming the man who is unduly passionate, blames equally the man who is
insensitive; the thing to aim at is to be angry "on the proper occasions
and with the proper people in the proper manner and for the proper
length of time." And in this and all other cases the definition of what
is proper must be left to the determination of "the sensible man."

Thus, in place of a series of hard and fast rules, a rigid and
uncompromising distinction of acts and affections into good and bad, the
former to be absolutely chosen and the latter absolutely eschewed,
Aristotle presents us with the general type of a subtle and shifting
problem, the solution of which must be worked out afresh by each
individual in each particular case. Conduct to him is a free and living
creature, and not a machine controlled by fixed laws. Every life is a
work of art shaped by the man who lives it; according to the faculty of
the artist will be the quality of his work, and no general rules can
supply the place of his own direct perception at every turn. The Good is
the right proportion, the right manner and occasion; the Bad is all that
varies from this "right." But the elements of human nature in themselves
are neither good nor bad; they are merely the raw material out of which
the one or the other may be shaped.

The idea thus formulated by Aristotle is typically Greek. In another
form it is the basis of the ethical philosophy of Plato, who habitually
regards virtue as a kind of "order." "The virtue of each thing," he
says, "whether body or soul, instrument or creature, when given to them
in the best way comes to them not by chance but as the result of the
order and truth and art which are imparted to them." [Footnote: Plato,
Gorgias, 506 d.--Translated by Jowett] And the conception here
indicated, is worked out in detail in his Republic. There, after
distinguishing in the soul three principles or powers, reason, passion,
and desire, he defines justice as the maintenance among them of their
proper mutual relation, each moving in its own place and doing its
appropriate work as is, or should be, the case with the different
classes in a state.

"The just man will not permit the several principles within him to do
any work but their own, nor allow the distinct classes in his soul to
interfere with each other, but will really set his house in order; and
having gained the mastery over himself, will so regulate his own
character as to be on good terms with himself, and to set those three
principles in tune together, as if they were verily three chords of a
harmony, a higher and a lower and a middle, and whatever may lie between
these; and after he has bound all these together, and reduced the many
elements of his nature to a real unity, as a temperate and duly
harmonized man, he will then at length proceed to do whatever he may
have to do." [Footnote: Plato, Rep. IV. 443.--Translation by Davies and
Vaughan.]

Plato, it is true, in other parts of his work, approaches more closely
to the dualistic conception of an absolute opposition between good and
bad principles in man. Yet even so, he never altogether abandons that
aesthetic point of view which looks to the establishment of order among
the conflicting principles rather than to the annihilation of one by the
other in an internecine conflict. The point may be illustrated by the
following passage, where the two horses represent respectively the
elements of fleshly desire and spiritual passion, while the charioteer
stands for the controlling reason; and where, it will be noticed, the
ultimate harmony is achieved, not by the complete eradication of desire,
but by its due subordination to the higher principle. Even Plato, the
most ascetic of the Greeks, is a Greek first and an ascetic afterwards.

"Of the nature of the soul, though her true form be ever a theme of
large and more than mortal discourse, let me speak briefly, and in a
figure, and let the figure be composite--a pair of winged horses and a
charioteer. Now the winged horses and the charioteers of the gods are
all of them noble and of noble descent, but those of other races are
mixed; the human charioteer drives his in a pair; and one of them is
noble and of noble breed, and the other is ignoble and of ignoble breed;
and the driving of them of necessity gives a great deal of trouble to
him.... The right hand horse is upright and cleanly made; he has a lofty
neck and an aquiline nose; his colour is white, and his eyes dark; he is
a lover of honour and modesty and temperance, and the follower of true
glory; he needs no touch of the whip, but is guided by word and
admonition only. The other is a crooked lumbering animal, put together
anyhow; he has a short thick neck; he is flat-faced and of a dark
colour, with grey eyes and blood-red complexion; the mate of insolence
and pride, shag-eared and deaf, hardly yielding to whip and spur. Now
when the charioteer beholds the vision of love, and has his whole soul
warmed through sense, and is full of, the prickings and ticklings of
desire, the obedient steed, then as always under the government of
shame, refrains from leaping on the beloved; but the other, heedless of
the blows of the whip, plunges and runs away, giving all manner of
trouble to his companion and the charioteer, whom he forces to approach
the beloved and to remember the joys of love. They at first indignantly
oppose him and will not be urged on to do terrible and unlawful deeds;
but at last, when he persists in plaguing them, they yield and agree to
do as he bids them. And now they are at the spot and behold the flashing
beauty of the beloved; which when the charioteer sees, his memory is
carried to the true beauty whom he beholds in company with Modesty like
an image placed upon a holy pedestal He sees her, but he is afraid and
falls backwards in adoration, and by his fall is compelled to pull back
the reins with such violence as to bring both the steeds on their
haunches, the one willing and unresisting, the unruly one very
unwilling; and when they have gone back a little, the one is overcome
with shame and wonder, and his whole soul is bathed in perspiration; the
other, when the pain is over which the bridle and the fall had given
him, having with difficulty taken breath, is full of wrath and
reproaches, which he heaps upon the charioteer and his fellow-steed, for
want of courage and manhood, declaring that they have been false to
their agreement and guilty of desertion. Again they refuse, and again he
urges them on, and will scarce yield to their prayer that he would wait
until another time. When the appointed hour comes, they make as if they
had forgotten, and he reminds them, fighting and neighing and dragging
them on, until at length he on the same thoughts intent, forces them to
draw near again. And when they are near he stoops his head and puts up
his tail, and takes the bit in his teeth and pulls shamelessly. Then the
charioteer is worse off than ever; he falls back like a racer at the
barrier, and with a still more violent wrench drags the bit out of the
teeth of the wild steed and covers his abusive jaws and tongue with
blood, and forces his legs and haunches to the ground and punishes him
sorely.

"And when this has happened several times and the villain has ceased
from his wanton way, he is tamed and humbled and follows the will of the
charioteer, and when he sees the beautiful one he is ready to die of
fear. And from that time forward the soul of the lover follows the
beloved in modesty and holy fear." [Footnote: Plato, Phaedrus. 246.--
Translated by Jowett.]

Even from this passage, in spite of its dualistic hypothesis, but far
more clearly from the whole tenor of his work, we may perceive that
Plato's description of virtue as an "order" of the soul is prompted by
the same conception, characteristically Greek, as Aristotle's account of
virtue as a "mean." The view, as we said at the beginning, is properly
aesthetic rather than moral. It regards life less as a battle between
two contending principles, in which victory means the annihilation of
the one, the altogether bad, by the other, the altogether good, than as
the maintenance of a balance between elements neutral in themselves but
capable, according as their relations are rightly ordered or the
reverse, of producing either that harmony which is called virtue, or
that discord which is called vice.

Such being the conception of virtue characteristic of the Greeks, it
follows that the motive to pursue it can hardly have presented itself to
them in the form of what we call the "sense of duty." For duty
emphasises self-repression. Against the desires of man it sets a law of
prohibition, a law which is not conceived as that of his own complete
nature, asserting against a partial or disproportioned development the
balance and totality of the ideal, but rather as a rule imposed from
without by a power distinct from himself, for the mortification, not the
perfecting, of his natural impulses and aims. Duty emphasises self-
repression; the Greek view emphasised self-development. That "health and
beauty and good habit of the soul," which is Plato's ideal, is as much
its own recommendation tion to the natural man as is the health and
beauty of the body. Vice, on this view, is condemned because it is a
frustration of nature, virtue praised because it is her fulfilment; and
the motive throughout is simply that passion to realise oneself which is
commonly acknowledged as sufficient in the case of physical development,
and which appeared sufficient to the Greeks in the case of the
development of the soul.


Section 6. The Greek View of Pleasure.

From all this it follows clearly enough that the Greek ideal was far
removed from asceticism; but it might perhaps be supposed, on the other
hand, that it came dangerously near to license. Nothing, however, could
be further from the case. That there were libertines among the Greeks,
as everywhere else, goes without saying; but the conception that the
Greek rule of life was to follow impulse and abandon restraint is a
figment of would-be "Hellenists" of our own time. The word which best
sums up the ideal of the Greeks is "temperance"; "the mean," "order,"
"harmony," as we saw, are its characteristic expressions; and the self-
realisation to which they aspired was not an anarchy of passion, but an
ordered evolution of the natural faculties under the strict control of a
balanced mind. The point may be illustrated by a reference to the
treatment of pleasure in the philosophy of Plato and of Aristotle.

The practice of the libertine is to identify pleasure and good in such a
manner that he pursues at any moment any pleasure that presents itself,
eschewing comparison and reflection, with all that might tend to check
that continuous flow of vivid and fresh sensations which he postulates
as the end of life. The ideal of the Greeks, on the contrary, as
interpreted by their two greatest thinkers, while on the one hand it is
so far opposed to asceticism that it requires pleasure as an essential
complement of Good, on the other, is so far from identifying the two,
that it recognises an ordered scale of pleasures, and while rejecting
altogether those at the lower end, admits the rest, not as in themselves
constituting the Good, but rather as harmless additions or at most as
necessary accompaniments of its operation. Plato, in the Republic,
distinguishes between the necessary and unnecessary pleasures, defining
the former as those derived from the gratification of appetites "which
we cannot get rid of and whose satisfaction does us good"--such, for
example, as the appetite for wholesome food; and the latter as those
which belong to appetites "which we can put away from us by early
training; and the presence of which, besides, never does us any good,
and in some cases does positive harm,"--such, for example, as the
appetite for delicate and luxurious dishes. [Footnote: Plato, Rep. VIII.
558.--Translated by Davies and Vaughan.] The former he would admit, the
latter he excludes from his ideal of happiness. And though in a later
dialogue, the Philebus, he goes further than this, and would exclude
from the perfect life all pleasures except those which he describes as
"pure," that is those which attend upon the contemplation of form and
colour and sound, or which accompany intellectual activity; yet here, no
doubt, he is passing beyond the sphere of the practicable ideal, and his
distinct personal bias towards asceticism must be discounted if we are
to take him as representative of the Greek view. His general contention,
however, that pleasures must be ranked as higher and as lower, and that
at the best they are not to be identified with the Good, is fully
accepted by so typical a Greek as Aristotle. Aristotle, however, is
careful not to condemn any pleasure that is not definitely harmful. Even
"unnecessary" pleasures, he admits, may be desirable in themselves; even
the deliberate creation of desire with a view to the enjoyment of
satisfying it may be admissible if it is not injurious. Still, there are
kinds of pleasures which ought not to be pursued, and occasions and
methods of seeking it which are improper and perverse. Therefore the
Reason must be always at hand to check and to control; and the ultimate
test of true worth in pleasure, as in everything else, is the trained
judgment of the good and sensible man.


Section 7. Illustrations--Ischomachus; Socrates.

Such, then, was the character of the Greek conception of excellence. The
account we have given may seem somewhat abstract and ideal; but it gives
the general formula of the life which every cultivated Greek would at
any rate have wished to live. And in confirmation of this point we may
adduce the testimony of Xenophon, who has left us a description,
evidently drawn from life, of what he conceives to be the perfect type
of a "gentleman."

The interest of the account lies in the fact, that Xenophon himself was
clearly an "average" Greek, one, that is to say, of good natural parts,
of perfectly normal faculties and tastes, undisturbed by any originality
of character or mind, and representing therefore, as we may fairly
assert, the ordinary views and aims of an upright and competent man of
the world. His description of the "gentleman," therefore, may be taken
as a representative account of the recognised ideal of all that class of
Athenian citizens. And this is how the gentleman in question,
Ischomachus, describes his course of life.

"In the first place," he says, "I worship the gods. Next, I endeavour to
the best of my ability, assisted by prayer, to get health and strength
of body, reputation in the city, good will among my friends, honourable
security in battle and an honourable increase of fortune."

At this point Socrates, who is supposed to be the interlocutor,
interrupts. "Do you really covet wealth," he asks, "with all the trouble
it involves?" "Certainly I do," is the reply, "for it enables me to
honour the gods magnificently, to help my friends if they are in want,
and to contribute to the resources of my country."

Here definitely and precisely expressed is the ideal of the Athenian
gentleman--the beautiful body housing the beautiful soul, the external
aids of fortune, friends, and the like, and the realisation of the
individual self in public activity. Upon it follows an account of the
way in which Ischomachus was accustomed to pass his days. He rises
early, he tells us, to catch his friends before they go out, or walks to
the city to transact his necessary business. If he is not called into
town, he pays a visit to his farm, walking for the sake of exercise and
sending on his horse. On his arrival he gives directions about the
sowing, ploughing, or whatever it may be, and then mounting his horse
practices his military exercises. Finally he returns home on foot,
running part of the way, takes his bath, and sits down to a moderate
midday meal.

This combination of physical exercise, military training and business,
arouses the enthusiasm of Socrates. "How right you are!" he cries, "and
the consequence is that you are as healthy and strong as we see you, and
one of the best riders and the wealthiest men in the country!"

This little prosaic account of the daily life of an Athenian gentleman
is completely in harmony with all we have said about the character of
the Greek ideal; but it comprehends only a part, and that the least
spiritual, of that rich and many-sided excellence. It may be as well,
therefore, to append by way of complement the description of another
personality, exceptional indeed even among the Greeks, yet one which
only Greece could have produced--the personality of Socrates. No more
striking figure is presented to us in history, none has been more
vividly portrayed, and none, in spite of the originality of mind which
provoked the hostility of the crowd, is more thoroughly Hellenic in
every aspect, physical, intellectual, and moral.

That Socrates was ugly in countenance was a defect which a Greek could
not fail to note, and his snub nose and big belly are matters of
frequent and jocose allusion. But apart from these defects his physique,
it appears, was exceptionally good; he was sedulous in his attendance at
the gymnasia, and was noted for his powers of endurance and his courage
and skill in war. Plato records it of him that in a hard winter on
campaign, when the common soldiers were muffling themselves in
sheepskins and felt against the cold, he alone went about in his
ordinary cloak, and barefoot over the ice and snow; and he further
describes his bearing in a retreat from a lost battle, how "there you
might see him, just as he is in the streets of Athens, stalking like a
pelican and rolling his eyes, calmly contemplating enemies as well as
friends, and making very intelligible to anybody, even from a distance,
that whoever attacked him would be likely to meet with a stout
resistance." [Footnote: Plato, Symp. 221 b.--Translated by Jowett.]

To this efficiency of body corresponded, in accordance with the Greek
ideal, a perfect balance and harmony of soul. Plato, in a fine figure,
compares him to the wooden statues of Silenus, which concealed behind a
grotesque exterior beautiful golden images of the gods. Of these divine
forms none was fairer in Socrates than that typical Greek virtue,
temperance. Without a touch of asceticism, he knew how to be contented
with a little. His diet he measured strictly with a view to health.
Naturally abstemious, he could drink, when he chose, more than another
man; but no one had ever seen him drunk. His affections were strong and
deep, but never led him away to seek his own gratification at the cost
of those he loved. Without cutting himself off from any of the pleasures
of life, a social man and a frequent guest at feasts, he preserved
without an effort the supremacy of character and mind over the flesh he
neither starved nor pampered. Here is a description by Plato of his
bearing at the close of an all-night carouse, which may stand as a
concrete illustration not only of the character of Socrates, but of the
meaning of "temperance" as it was understood by the Greeks:

"Aristodemus said that Eryximachus, Phaedrus, and others went away--he
himself fell asleep, and as the nights were long took a good rest: he
was awakened towards day-break by a crowing of cocks, and when he awoke
the others were either asleep, or had gone away; there remained awake
only Socrates, Aristophanes, and Agathon, who were drinking out of a
large goblet which they passed round, and Socrates was discoursing to
them. Aristodemus did not hear the beginning of the discourse, and he
was only half awake, but the chief thing which he remembered was
Socrates compelling the other two to acknowledge that the genius of
comedy was the same as that of tragedy, and that the true artist in
tragedy was an artist in comedy also. To this they assented, being
drowsy, and not quite following the argument. And first of all
Aristophanes dropped off, then, when the day was already dawning,
Agathon. Socrates, when he had laid them to sleep, rose to depart:
Aristodemus, as his manner was, following him. At the Lyceum he took a
bath, and passed the day as usual. In the evening he retired to rest at
his own house." [Footnote: Plato, Symposion, 223.--Translated by
Jowett.]

With this quality of temperance was combined in Socrates a rare measure
of independence and moral courage. He was never an active politician;
but as every Athenian citizen was called, at some time or another, to
public office, he found himself, on a critical occasion, responsible for
putting a certain proposition to the vote in the Assembly. It was a
moment of intense excitement. A great victory had just been won; but the
generals who had achieved the success had neglected to recover the
corpses of the dead or to save the ship-wrecked. It was proposed to take
a vote of life or death on all the generals collectively. Socrates, as
it happened, was one of the committee whose duty it was to put the
question to the Assembly. But the proposition was in itself illegal, and
Socrates with some other members of the committee, refused to submit it
to the vote. Every kind of pressure was brought to bear upon the
recalcitrant officers; orators threatened, friends besought, the mob
clamoured and denounced. Finally all but Socrates gave way. He alone, an
old man, in office for the first time, had the courage to obey his
conscience and the law in face of an angry populace crying for blood.

And as he could stand against a mob, so he could stand against a despot.
At the time when Athens was ruled by the thirty tyrants he was ordered,
with four others, to arrest a man whom the authorities wished to put out
of the way. The man was guilty of no crime, and Socrates refused. "I
went quietly home," he says, "and no doubt I should have been put to
death for it, if the government had not shortly after come to an end."

These, however, were exceptional episodes in the career of a man who was
never a prominent politician. The main interest of Socrates was
intellectual and moral; an interest, however, rather practical than
speculative. For though he was charged in his indictment with preaching
atheism, he appears in fact to have concerned himself little or nothing
with either theological or physical inquiries. He was careful in his
observance of all prescribed religious rites, and probably accepted the
gods as powers of the natural world and authors of human institutions
and laws. His originality lay not in any purely speculative views, but
in the pertinacious curiosity, practical in its origin and aim, with
which he attacked and sifted the ethical conceptions of his time: "What
is justice?" "What is piety?" "What is temperance?"--these were the
kinds of questions he never tired of raising, pointing out
contradictions and inconsistencies in current ideas, and awakening
doubts which if negative in form were positive and fruitful in effect.

His method in pursuing these inquiries was that of cross-examination. In
the streets, in the market, in the gymnasia, at meetings grave and gay,
in season or out of season, he raised his points of definition. The city
was in a ferment around him. Young men and boys followed and hung on his
lips wherever he went. By the charm of his personality, his gracious
courtesy and wit, and the large and generous atmosphere of a sympathy
always at hand to temper to particular persons the rigours of a
generalising logic, he drew to himself, with a fascination not more of
the intellect than of the heart, all that was best and brightest in the
youth of Athens. His relation to his young disciples was that of a lover
and a friend; and the stimulus given by his dialectics to their keen and
eager minds was supplemented and reinforced by the appeal to their
admiration and love of his sweet and virile personality.

Only in Ancient Athens, perhaps, could such a character and such
conditions have met. The sociable out-door city life; the meeting places
in the open air, and especially the gymnasia, frequented by young and
old not more for exercise of the body than for recreation of the mind;
the nimble and versatile Athenian wits trained to preternatural
acuteness by the debates of the law courts and the Assembly; all this
was exactly the environment fitted to develop and sustain a genius at
once so subtle and so humane as that of Socrates. It is the concrete
presentation of this city-life that lends so peculiar a charm to the
dialogues of Plato. The spirit of metaphysics puts on the human form;
and Dialectic walks the streets and contends in the palaestra. It would
be impossible to convey by citation the cumulative effect of this
constant reference in Plato to a human background; but a single excerpt
may perhaps help us to realise the conditions under which Socrates lived
and worked. Here, then, is a description of the scene in one of those
gymnasia in which he was wont to hold his conversations:

"Upon entering we found that the boys had just been sacrificing; and
this part of the festival was nearly at an end. They were all in white
array, and games at dice were going on among them. Most of them were in
the outer court amusing themselves; but some were in a corner of the
Apodyterium playing at odd and even with a number of dice, which they
took out of little wicker baskets. There was also a circle of lookers-
on, one of whom was Lysis. He was standing among the other boys and
youths, having a crown upon his head, like a fair vision, and not less
worthy of praise for his goodness than for his beauty. We left them, and
went over to the opposite side of the room, where, finding a quiet
place, we sat down; and then we began to talk. This attracted Lysis, who
was constantly turning round to look at us--he was evidently wanting to
come to us. For a time he hesitated and had not the courage to come
alone; but first of all, his friend Menexenus came in out of the court
in the interval of his play, and when he saw Ctesippus and myself, came
and sat by us; and then Lysis, seeing him, followed, and sat down with
him, and the other boys joined.

"I turned to Menexenus, and said: 'Son of Demophon, which of you two
youths is the elder?'

"'That is a matter of dispute between us,' he said.

"'And which is the nobler? Is that a matter of dispute too?'

"'Yes, certainly.'

"'And another disputed point is, which is the fairer?'

"The two boys laughed.

"'I shall not ask which is the richer,' I said; 'for you two are
friends, are you not?'

"'Certainly,' they replied.

"'And friends have all things in common, so that one of you can be no
richer than the other, if you say truly that you are friends.'

"They assented. I was about to ask which was the greater of the two, and
which was the wiser of the two; but at this moment Menexenus was called
away by some one who came and said that the gymnastic-master wanted him.
I supposed that he had to offer sacrifice. So he went away and I asked
Lysis some more questions." [Footnote: Plato, Lysis 206 e.--Translated
by Jowett]

Such were the scenes in which Socrates passed his life. Of his influence
it is hardly necessary here to speak at length. In the well-known
metaphor put into his mouth by Plato, he was the "gad-fly" of the
Athenian people. To prick intellectual lethargy, to force people to
think, and especially to think about the conceptions with which they
supposed themselves to be most familiar, those which guided their
conduct in private and public affairs--justice expediency, honesty, and
the like--such was the constant object of his life. That he should have
made enemies, that he should have been misunderstood, that he should
have been accused of undermining the foundations of morality and
religion, is natural and intelligible enough; and it was on these
grounds that he was condemned to death. His conduct at his trial was of
a piece with the rest of his life. The customary arts of the pleader,
the appeal to the sympathies of the public, the introduction into court
of weeping wife and children, he rejected as unworthy of himself and of
his cause. His defence was a simple exposition of the character and the
aims of his life; so far from being a criminal he asserted that he was a
benefactor of the Athenian people; and having, after his condemnation,
to suggest the sentence he thought appropriate, he proposed that he
should be supported at the public expense as one who had deserved well
of his country. After his sentence to death, having to wait thirty days
for its execution, he showed no change from his customary cheerfulness,
passing his time in conversation with his friends. "I calculate
that this will rather whoop up public interest in our performance," said
the tailor, cheerfully, the next day, as he handed the newspaper
containing the pleasing fiction to Jaune. "That's my idea, for a
starter. I've got the whole story ready to come out in sections--paid
a literary feller twenty dollars to get it up for me.
And you be careful to-day when you are interviewed" (Jaune shuddered)
"to keep the story up--or" (for Jaune was beginning a remonstrance)
"you can keep out of it altogether, if you'd rather.

Say you must refuse to talk upon so delicate a subject, or something of
that sort.
Yes, that's your card. It'll make the mystery greater, you know--and I'll
see that the public gets the facts, all the same."
The tailor chuckled, and Jaune was unutterably wretched. He was on
the point of throwing up his contract. He opened his mouth to speak
the decisive words--and shut it again as the thought came into his
mind that his misery must be borne, and borne gallantly, because it was
all for the love of Rose.

That day there was no affectation in his air of melancholy.

He was profoundly miserable.

Faithful to his contract, he looked searchingly upon the many young
women of twenty years whom he met; and such of them as were
possessors of tender hearts grew very sorrowful at sight of the
obvious woe by which he was oppressed. His woe, indeed, was keen, for
the newspaper article had had its destined effect, and he was a marked
man.

People turned to look at him as people had not turned before; it was
evident that he was a subject of conversation. Several times he caught
broken sentences which he recognized as portions of his supposititious
biography. His crowning torture was the assault of the newspaper
reporters. They were suave, they were surly, they were insinuatingly
sympathetic, they were aggressively peremptory--but all alike
were determined to wring from him to the uttermost the details of the
sorrow that he never had suffered, of the life that he never had lived.
It was a confusing sort of an experience. He began to wonder, at last,
whether or not it were possible that he could be somebody else without
knowing it; and if it were, in whom, precisely, his identity was
vested. Being but a simple-minded young fellow, with no taste whatever
for metaphysics, this line of thought was upsetting.

While involved in these perplexing doubts and the crowd at
the Fifth Avenue crossing, he was so careless as to step upon
the heel of a lady in front of him. And when the lady turned,
half angrily, half to receive his profuse apologies, he beheld
Mademoiselle Carthame. The face of this young person wore an expression
made up of not less than three conflicting emotions: of resentment
of the assault upon the heel of her one pair of good shoes,
of friendly recognition of the familiar voice, of blank surprise upon
perceiving that this voice came from the lips of a total stranger. She
looked searchingly upon the smoked glasses, obviously trying to pry
into the secret of the hidden eyes.
Jaune's blood rushed up into his face, and he realized that detection
was imminent. Mercifully, at that moment the crowd opened, and with a
bow that hid his face behind his hat he made good his retreat.
During the remaining half hour of his walk, he thought no more of
metaphysics.
The horrid danger of physical discovery from which he had escaped so
narrowly filled him with a shuddering alarm. Nor could he banish from
his mind the harrowing thought that perhaps, for all his gray hair and
painted wrinkles and fine clothes, Rose in truth had recognized him.

That night an irresistible attraction drew him to the Carthame abode.
In the little parlor he found the severe Madame Carthame, her adorable
daughter, and the offensive Count Siccatif de Courtray. Greatly
to his relief, his reception was in the usual form: Madame Carthame
conducted herself after the fashion of a well-bred iceberg; Rose
endeavored to mitigate the severity of her parent's demeanor by her own
affability; the Count, as much as possible, ignored his presence.
Jaune could not repress a sigh of relief. She had not recognized him.

But his evening was one of trial. With much vivacity, Rose entertained
the little company with an account of her romantic adventure with
the French nobleman who had come to America in quest of his lost
daughter; for she had read the newspaper story, and had identified
its hero with the assailant of her heel.

     She dwelt with enthusiasm upon the distinguished appearance of the
unhappy foreigner; she ventured the suggestion, promptly and sternly
checked by her mamma, that she herself might be the lost child; she
grew plaintive, and expressed a burning desire to comfort this
stricken parent with a daughter's love, and, worst of all, she sat
silent, with a far-away look in her charming eyes, and obviously
suffered her thoughts to go astray after this handsome Marquis in
a fashion that made even the Count Siccatif de Courtray fidget, and
that filled the soul of Jaune d'Antimoine with a consuming jealousy--not
the less consuming because of the absurd fact that it was jealousy
of himself!

As he walked home that night through the devious ways of Greenwich to
his dismal studio, he seriously entertained the wish that he never had
been born.

The next day all the morning papers contained elaborate "interviews"
with the Marquis: for each of the several reporters who had been
put on the case, believing that he alone had failed to get the facts,
and being upheld by a lofty determination that no other reporter should
"get a beat on him," had evolved from his own inner consciousness the
story that Jaune, for the best of reasons, had refused to tell. The stories
thus told, being based upon the original fiction, bore a family
resemblance to each other; and as all of them were interesting, they
stimulated popular curiosity in regard to their hero to a very high
pitch. As the result of them, Jaune found himself the most conspicuous
man in New York. During the three hours of his walk he was the
centre of an interested crowd. Several benevolent persons stopped to tell
him of fatherless young women with whom they were acquainted, and to
urge upon him the probability that each of these young women was his
long-lost child. The representatives of a dozen detective bureaus introduced
themselves to him, and made offer of their professional services; a
messenger from the chief of police handed him a polite note tendering
the services of the department and inviting him to a conference. It was
maddening.

But worst of all were his meetings with Rose.

As these multiplied, the conviction became irresistible that they were
not the result of chance; indeed, her manner made doubt upon this
head impossible. At first she gave him only a passing glance, then a
glance somewhat longer, then a look of kindly interest, then a long
look of sympathy; and at last she bestowed upon him a gentle, almost
affectionate, smile that expressed, as plainly as a smile could express,
her sorrow for his misery and her readiness to comfort him. In a word,
Rose Carthame's conduct simply was outrageous!

The jealous anger which had inflamed Jattne's breast the night before
swelled and expanded into a raging passion. He longed to engage in
mortal combat this stranger who was alienating the affection that should
be his. The element of absurdity in the situation no longer was apparent
to him. In truth, as he reasoned, the situation was not absurd. To
all intents and purposes he was two people and it was the other one
of him, not himself at all, who was winning Rose's interest, perhaps her
love.

For a moment the thought crossed his mind that he would adjust the
difficulty in his own favor by remaining this other person always. But
the hard truth confronted him that every time he washed his face he would
cease to be the elderly Marquis, with the harder truth that the fabulous
wealth with which, as the Marquis, the newspapers had endowed him was
too entirely fabulous to serve as a basis for substantial life. And
being thus cut off from hope, he fell back upon jealous hatred of
himself.

That night the evening paper in which the first mention of the
mysterious French nobleman had been made contained an article cleverly
contrived to give point to the mystery in its commercial aspect.
The fact had been observed, the article declared, that the nobleman's
promenade began and ended at a prominent clothing establishment on
Broadway; and then followed, in the guise of a contribution toward the
clearing up of the mystery, an interview with the proprietor of the
establishment in question. However, the interview left the mystery
just where it found it, for all that the tailor told was that the
Marquis had bought several suits of clothes from him; that he had
shown himself to be an exceptionally critical person in the matter
of his wearing apparel; that he had expressed repeatedly his entire
satisfaction with his purchases.

In another portion of the paper was a glaring advertisement, in which
the clothing man set forth, in an animated fashion, the cheapness and
desirability of "The Marquis Suit"--a suit that "might be seen to
advantage on the person of the afflicted French nobleman now in our
midst who had honored it with his approval, and in whose honor it had
been named." Upon reading the newspaper narrative and its advertisement
pendant, Jaune groaned aloud. He was oppressed by a horror of
discovery, and here, as it seemed to him in his morbidly nervous
condition, was a clew to his duplex identity sufficiently obvious
to be apparent even to a detective.

The Count Siccatif de Courtray, as has been intimated, went so far as
to fidget while listening to Mademoiselle Carthame's vivacious description
of her encounter with the handsome Marquis. Being regaled during the
ensuing evening with a very similar narrative--a materially modified
version of the events which had aroused in so lively a manner the
passion of jealousy in the breast of Jaune d'Antimoine--the Count
ceased merely to fidget and became the prey to a serious anxiety.

He determined that the next day, quite unobtrusively, he would
observe Mademoiselle Carthame in her relations with this unknown but
dangerously fascinating nobleman; and also that he would give some
attention to the nobleman himself. This secondary purpose was
strengthened the next morning, while the Count was engaged with his coffee
and newspaper, by his finding in the "Courrier des Etats-Unis" a
translation of the paragraph stating the curious fact that the daily
walk of the Marquis began and ended at the Broadway tailor shop.

Having finished his breakfast, the Count leisurely betook himself to
Broadway. As he slowly strolled eastward, he observed on the other
side of the street Jaune d'Antimoine, in his desperately shabby raiment,
hurriedly walking eastward also. The Count murmured a brief panegyric
upon M. d'Antimoine, in which the words "cet animal" alone were
distinguishable.

They were near Broadway at this moment, and to the Count's surprise M.
d'Antimoine entered the clothing establishment from which
the Marquis departed upon his daily walk. Could it be possible, he
thought, that fortune had smiled upon the young artist, and that he
was about to purchase a new suit of clothes? The Count entertained the
charitable hope that such could not be the case.

It was the Count's purpose, in order that he might follow also the
movements of Mademoiselle Carthame, to follow the Marquis from the
beginning to the end of his promenade. He set himself, therefore, to
watching closely--for the appearance of the grief-stricken
foreigner, moving carelessly the while from one shop-window to another
that commanded a view of the field. At the end of half an hour, when
the Count was beginning to think that the object of his solicitude was
a myth, out from the broad portal of the clothing establishment came
the Marquis in all his glory--more glorious, in truth, than Solomon, and
more melancholy than the melancholy Jaques. And yet for an instant the
Count Siccatif de Courtray was possessed by the absurd fancy that this
stately personage was Jaune d'Antimoine! Truly, here was the same
tall, handsome figure, the same easy, elegant carriage, the same cut
of hair and beard. But the resemblance went no further, for beard and
hair were gray almost to whiteness, the face was pale and old, and
the clothes, so far from being desperately seedy, were more resplendent
even than the Count's own.

No, the thought was incredible, preposterous, and yet the Count could not
discharge it from his mind. He stamped his foot savagely; this mystery
was becoming more interesting than pleasing.

In the crowd that the Marquis drew in his wake, as he slowly, sadly
sauntered up Broadway, the Count had no difficulty in following him
unobserved. The situation was that of the previous day, only it was
intensified, and therefore, to its hero, the more horrible. The benevolent
people with stray fatherless young women to dispose of were out
in greater force; the detectives were more aggressive; the newspaper
people were more persistent; the general public was more keenly interested
in the whole performance.

And Rose--most dreadful of all--was more outrageous than ever! The Count
grew almost green with rage during the three hours that he was a
witness of this young woman's scandalous conduct. A dozen times she met
the Marquis in the course of his walk, and each time that she met him
she greeted him with a yet more tender smile. A curious fact that
at first surprised, then puzzled, then comforted the Count was the very
obvious annoyance which these flattering attentions caused their recipient.
Evidently, he persistently endeavored to evade the meetings which Rose
as persistently and more successfully endeavored to force upon him.
Within the scope of M. de Courtary's comprehension only one reason seemed
to be sufficient to explain the determination on the part of the Marquis
to resist the advances of a singularly attractive young woman,
whose good disposition toward him was so conspicuously, though so
irregularly, manifested: a fear of recognition.

And this reason adjusted itself in a striking manner to the queer notion
that had come into his mind that the Marquis was an ideal creation
whose reality was Jeaune d'Antimoine. The thought was absurd, irrational,
but it grew stronger and stronger within him--and became an assured
conviction when, shortly after the promenade of the Marquis had ended,
Jaune came forth from the clothing store in his normal condition
of shabbiness and youth.

The Count was not in all respects a praiseworthy person, but among his
vices was not that of stupidity. Without any very tremendous
mental effort he grasped the fact that his rival had sold himself into
bondage as a walking advertisement, and, knowing this, a righteous
exultation filled his soul. Jaune's destiny, so far as Mademoiselle
Carthame was concerned, he felt was in his power: and he was perplexed
by no nice doubts as to the purpose to which the power that he had
gained should be applied.

     Untroubled by the knowledge that his secret was discovered,
                 Jaune entered upon the last day of his
     martyrdom. It was the most agonizing day of all. The benevolent
                 persons, the reporters, the
     detectives, the crowd surging about him, drove him almost
                 to madness. He walked as one
     dazed. And above and over all he was possessed by a frenzy
                 of jealousy that came of the
     offensively friendly smiles which Rose bestowed upon him as she
                 forced meetings upon
     him again and again. It was with difficulty that he restrained
                 himself from laying violent
     hands upon this bogus Marquis who falsely and infamously
                 had beguiled away from him the
     love for which he gladly would have given his life. Only the
                 blood of his despicable rival, he
     felt, would satisfy him.

                          He longed to find himself with a sword in his hand on a bit of
smooth turf, and the villanous Marquis over against him, ready to
be run through.

             The thought was so delightful, so animating, that involuntarily he
made a lunge--and had to apologize confusedly to an elderly gentleman
whom he had poked in the back with his umbrella.

                          At last the three hours of torture, the last of his two weeks of
hateful servitude, came to an end.

         Pale beneath his false paleness, haggard beyond his false haggardness
of age, he entered the clothing store and once more was himself.

                          With a gladness unspeakable he washed off his wrinkles and washed
out the gray from his hair and beard; with a sense of infinite
satisfaction that, a fortnight earlier, he would not have believed
possible, he resumed his shabby old clothes.

             Had he chosen to do so, he might have walked
     away in the new and magnificent apparel which he now
                 fairly had earned; but
     just at present his loathing for these fine garments was
                 beyond all words.
     
                 The tailor fain would have had the
     masquerade continue longer, for, as he frankly stated,
                 "The Marquis Suit" was having a tremendous sale.

                          But Jaune was deaf not only to the tailor's blandishments, but to
his offers of substantial cash.

           "Not for the millions would I be in this part of the Marquis for
one day yet more," he said firmly.

                          And he added, "I trust to you in honor, sare, that not never shall
my name be spoken in this affair."

           "Couldn't speak it if I wanted to, my dear
     boy. It's a mystery to me how you're able to say it
                 yourself! Well, I'd like you to run
          the 'Marquis' for another week; but if you won't, you won't,
          I suppose, so there's an end of it.

I'm sorry you haven't enjoyed it. I have. It's been as good a thing as I
ever got hold of. Now give me your address and I'll have your clothes
sent to you. Don't you want some more? I don't mind letting you have
a regular outfit if you want it. One good turn, you know--and you've done
me a good turn, and that's a fact."
But Jaune declined this liberal offer, and declined also to leave his
address, which would have involved a revelation of his name. It was a
comfort to him to know that his name was safe--a great comfort. So the
garments of the forever departed Marquis were put up in a big bundle,
and Jaune journeyed homeward to his studio in Greenwich--bearing his
sheaves with him--in a Bleecker Street car.

"Well, you are a cheeky beggar, d'Antimoine," said Vandyke Brown,
cheerfully, the next morning, as he came into Jaune's studio with a
newspaper in his hand. "So you are the Marquis who has been setting
the town wild for the last week, eh? And whom did you bet with? And what
started you in such a crazy performance, anyway? Tell me all about it.
It's as funny--Good heavens! d'Antimoine, what's the matter? Are you
ill?" For Jaune had grown deathly pale and was gasping.

"I do not know of what it is that you talk," he answered, with a
great effort.

                     "Oh, come now,
     that's too thin, you know. Why, here's a
     whole column about it, telling how
     you made a bet with somebody that you could set all the town to
talking about you, and yet do it all in such a clever disguise that
nobody would know who you really were, not even your most intimate
friends.

And I should say that you had won handsomely. Why, I've seen you on
Broadway a dozen times myself this last week, and I never had the
remotest suspicion that the Marquis was you. I must say, though," continued
Brown, reflectively, and looking closely at Jaune, "that it was
stupid of me.

I did think that you had a familiar sort of look; and once, I
remember, it did occur to me that you looked astonishingly like
yourself.

It--it was the clothes, you see, that threw me out. Where ever did
you get such a stunning rig? I don't believe that I'd have known you
dressed like that, even if you hadn't been gray and wrinkled. But tell
me all about it, old man. It must have been jolly fun!"
"Fun!" groaned Jaune; "it was the despair!" And then, his heart being very
full and his longing for sympathy overpowering, Jatine told Brown the
whole story. "But what is this of one bet, my dear Van," he concluded,
"I do not of the least know."
"Well, here it all is in the paper, anyway. Calls you 'a distinguished
animal-painter,' and alludes to your 'strikingly vigorous "Lioness and
Cubs" and powerful "Dray Horses" at the last spring exhibition of
the Society of American Artists.' Must be somebody who knows you, you
see, and somebody who means well by you, too. There's nothing at all
about your being an advertisement; indeed, there's nothing in the story
but a good joke, of which you are the hero. It's an eccentric sort of
heroism, to be sure; but then, for some unknown reason, people never
seem to believe that artists are rational human beings, so your
eccentricity will do you no harm.

And it's no end of an advertisement for you. Whoever wrote it meant well
by you. And, by Jove! I know who it is! It's little Conte Crayon. He's a
good-hearted little beggar, and he likes you ever so much, for I've heard
him say so; but how he ever got hold of the story, and especially of
such a jolly version of it, I don't see."
Then coming as she does into the midst of
manners and customs strange to her, she would need the gift of
divination--unless she has been taught at home--to know how best to
treat her bed-fellow. And if we manage so well that our husband remains
faithful to us, and does not break away, we may think ourselves
fortunate; if not, there is nothing for it but death. A man when he is
vexed at home can go out and find relief among his friends or
acquaintances; but we women have none to look to but him. They tell us
we live a sheltered life at home while they go to the wars; but that is
nonsense. For I would rather go into battle thrice than bear a child
once." [Footnote: Euripides, Med. 230.]

Hitherto we have been speaking mainly of the position of the wife in
Greece. It is necessary now to say a few words about that class of women
who were called in the Greek tongue Hetaerae; and who are by some
supposed to have represented, intellectually at least, a higher level of
culture than the other members of their sex. In exceptional cases, this,
no doubt, was the fact. Aspasia, for example, the mistress of Pericles,
was famous for her powers of mind. According to Plato she was an
accomplished rhetorician, and the real composer of the celebrated
funeral oration of Pericles; and Plutarch asserts that she was courted
and admired by the statesmen and philosophers of Greece. But Aspasia
cannot be taken as a type of the Hetaerae of Greece. That these women,
by the variety and freedom of their life, may and must have acquired
certain qualities of character and mind that could  hardly be developed
in the seclusion of the Greek home, may readily be admitted; we know,
for example, that they cultivated music and the power of conversation;
and were welcome guests at supper-parties. But we have no evidence that
the relations which they formed rested as a rule on any but the simplest
physical basis. The real distinction, under this head, between the Greek
point of view and our own, appears to lie rather in the frankness with
which this whole class of relations was recognised by the Greeks. There
were temples in honour of Aphrodite Pandemos, the goddess of illicit
love, and festivals celebrated in her honour; statues were erected of
famous courtesans, of Phryne for example, at Delphi, between two kings;
and philosophers and statesmen lived with their mistresses openly,
without any loss of public reputation. Every man, said the orator
Demosthenes, requires besides his wife at least two mistresses; and this
statement, made as a matter of course in open court, is perhaps the most
curious illustration we possess of the distinction between the Greek
civilisation and our own, as regards not the fact itself but the light
in which it was viewed.


Section 10. Friendship.

From what has been said about the Greek view of women, it might
naturally have been supposed that there can have been little place in
their life for all that we designate under the term "romance." Personal
affection, as we have seen, was not the basis of married life; and
relations with Hetaerae appear to have been, in this respect, no finer
or higher than similar relations in our own times. Nevertheless, it
would be a mistake to conclude, from these conditions, that the element
of romance was absent from Greek life. The fact is simply that with them
it took a different form, that of passionate friendship between men.
Such friendships, of course, occur in all nations and at all times, but
among the Greeks they were, we might say, an institution. Their ideal
was the development and education of the younger by the older man, and
in this view they were recognised and approved by custom and law as an
important factor in the state. In Sparta, for example, it was the rule
that every boy had attached to him some elder youth by whom he was
constantly attended, admonished, and trained, and who shared in public
estimation the praise and blame of his acts; so that it is even reported
that on one occasion a Spartan boy having cried out in a fight, not he
himself but his friend was fined for the lapse of self-control. The
custom of Sparta existed also in Crete. But the most remarkable instance
of the deliberate dedication of this passion to political and military
ends is that of the celebrated "Theban band," a troop consisting
exclusively of pairs of lovers, who marched and fought in battle side by
side, and by their presence and example inspired one another to a
courage so constant and high that "it is stated that they were never
beaten till the battle at Chaeronea: and when Philip, after the fight,
took a view of the slain, and came to the place where the three hundred
that fought his phalanx lay dead together, he wondered, and
understanding that it was the band of lovers, he shed tears, and said,
"Perish any man who suspects that these men either did or suffered
anything that was base." [Footnote: Plutarch, Pelopidas. ch. 18.--Ed. by
Clough.]

Greek legend and history, in fact, resounds with the praises of friends.
Achilles and Patroclus, Pylades and Orestes, Harmodius and Aristogeiton,
Solon and Peisistratus, Socrates and Alcibiades, Epaminondas and
Pelopidas,--these are names that recall at once all that is highest in
the achievement and all that is most romantic in the passion of Greece.
For it was the prerogative of this form of love, in its finer
manifestations, that it passed beyond persons to objective ends, linking
emotion to action in a life of common danger and toil. Not only, nor
primarily, the physical sense was touched, but mainly and in chief the
imagination and intellect. The affection of Achilles for Patroclus is as
intense as that of a lover for his mistress, but it has in addition a
body and depth such as only years of common labour could impart.
"Achilles wept, remembering his dear comrade, nor did sleep that
conquereth all take hold of him, but he kept turning himself to this
side and to that, yearning for Patroclus' manhood and excellent valour,
and all the toils he achieved with him and the woes he bare, cleaving
the battles of men and the grievous waves. As he thought thereon he shed
big tears, now lying on his side, now on his back, now on his face; and
then anon he would arise upon his feet and roam wildly beside the beach
of the salt sea." [Footnote: Iliad XXIV. 3.--Translated by Lang, Leaf
and Myers.] That is the ideal spirit of Greek comradeship--each
supporting the other in his best efforts and aims, mind assisting mind
and hand hand, and the end of the love residing not in an easy
satisfaction of itself but in the development and perfecting of the
souls in which it dwelt.

Of such a love we have a record in the elegies of Theognis, in which the
poet has embodied, for the benefit of Kurnus his friend, the ripe
experience of an eventful life. The poems for the most part are didactic
in character, consciously and deliberately aimed at the instruction and
guidance of the man to whom they are addressed; but every now and again
the passion breaks through which informs and inspires this virile
intercourse, and in such a passage as the following gives us the key to
this and to all the finer friendships of the Greeks:--

     "Lo, I have given thee wings wherewith to fly
          Over the boundless ocean and the earth;
     Yea, on the lips of many shalt thou lie,
          The comrade of their banquet and their mirth.
     Youths in their loveliness shall bid thee sound
          Upon the silver flute's melodious breath;
     And when thou goest darkling underground
          Down to the lamentable house of death,
     Oh yet not then from honour shalt thou cease
          But wander, an imperishable name,
     Kurnus, about the seas and shores of Greece,
          Crossing from isle to isle the barren main.
     Horses thou shalt not need, but lightly ride
          Sped by the Muses of the violet crown,
     And men to come, while earth and sun abide,
          Who cherish song shall cherish thy renown.
     Yea, I have given thee wings, and in return
          Thou givest me the scorn with which I burn."
          [Footnote: Theognis 237.]

It was his insistence on friendship as an incentive to a noble life that
was the secret of the power of Socrates. Listen, for example, to the
account which Plutarch gives of his influence upon the young Alcibiades:

"Alcibiades, listening now to language entirely free from every thought
of unmanly fondness and silly displays of affection, finding himself
with one who sought to lay open to him the deficiencies of his mind, and
repress his vain and foolish arrogance,

'Dropped like the craven cock his conquered wing.'

He esteemed these endeavours of Socrates as most truly a means which the
gods made use of for the care and preservation of youth, and began to
think meanly of himself, and to admire him; to be pleased with his
kindness, and to stand in awe of his virtue; and, unawares to himself,
there became formed in his mind that reflex image and reciprocation of
love, or Anteros, that Plato talks of..... Though Socrates had many and
powerful rivals, yet the natural good qualities of Alcibiades gave his
affection the mastery. His words overcame him so much, as to draw tears
from his eyes, and to disturb his very soul. Yet sometimes he would
abandon himself to flatterers, when they proposed to him varieties of
pleasure, and would desert Socrates; who then would pursue him, as if he
had been a fugitive slave. He despised every one else, and had no
reverence or awe for any but him." [Footnote: Plut. Alc. ch. 4.--Ed. by
Clough.] The relation thus established may be further illustrated by the
following graceful little anecdote. Socrates and Alcibiades were fellow-
soldiers at Potidaea and shared the same tent. In a stiff engagement
both behaved with gallantry. At last Alcibiades fell wounded, and
Socrates, standing over him, defended and finally saved him. For this he
might fairly have claimed the customary prize of valour; but he insisted
on resigning it to his friend, as an incentive to his "ambition for
noble deeds."

Another illustration of the power of this passion to evoke and stimulate
courage is given in the story of Cleomachus, narrated by Plutarch. In a
battle between the Chalcidians and the Eretrians, the cavalry of the
former being hard pressed, Cleomachus was called upon to make a
diversion. He turned to his friend and asked him if he intended to be a
spectator of the struggle; the youth replied in the affirmative, and
embracing his friend, with his own hands buckled on his helmet;
whereupon Cleomachus charged with impetuosity, routed the foe and died
gloriously fighting. And thenceforth, says Plutarch, the Chalcidians,
who had previously mistrusted such friendships, cultivated and honoured
them more than any other people.

So much indeed were the Greeks impressed with the manliness of this
passion, with its power to prompt to high thought and heroic action,
that some of the best of them set the love of man for man far above that
of man for woman. The one, they maintained, was primarily of the spirit,
the other primarily of the flesh; the one bent upon shaping to the type
of all manly excellence both the body and the soul of the beloved, the
other upon a passing pleasure of the senses. And they noted that among
the barbarians, who were subject to tyrants, this passion was
discouraged, along with gymnastics and philosophy, because it was felt
by their masters that it would be fatal to their power; so essentially
was it the prerogative of freedom, so incompatible with the nature and
the status of a slave.

It is in the works of Plato that this view is most completely and
exquisitely set forth. To him, love is the beginning of all wisdom; and
among all the forms of love, that one in chief, which is conceived by
one man for another, of which the main operation and end is in the
spirit, and which leads on and out from the passion for a particular
body and soul to an enthusiasm for that highest beauty, wisdom, and
excellence, of which the most perfect mortal forms are but a faint and
inadequate reflection. Such a love is the initiation into the higher
life, the spring at once of virtue, of philosophy, and of religion.
Always operative in practice in Greek life it was not invented but
interpreted by Plato. The philosopher merely gave an ideal expression to
what was stirring in the heart of every generous youth; and the passage
which we have selected for quotation may be taken as representative not
only of the personality of Plato, but of the higher aspect of a
characteristic phase of Greek civilisation.

"And now, taking my leave of you, I will rehearse a tale of love which I
heard from Diotima of Mantineia, a woman wise in this and in many other
kinds of knowledge. She was my instructress in the art of love, and I
shall repeat to you what she said to me: 'On the birthday of Aphrodite
there was a feast of the gods, at which the god Poros or Plenty, who is
the son of Metis or Discretion, was one of the guests. When the feast
was over, Penia or Poverty, as the manner is on such occasions, came
about the doors to beg. Now Plenty, who was the worse for nectar (there
was no wine in those days), went into the garden of Zeus and fell into a
heavy sleep; and Poverty considering her own straitened circumstances,
plotted to have a child by him, and accordingly she lay down at his side
and conceived Love, who partly because he is naturally a lover of the
beautiful, and because Aphrodite is herself beautiful, and also because
he was born on her birthday, is her follower and attendant. And as his
parentage is, so also are his fortunes. In the first place he is always
poor, and anything but tender and fair, as the many imagine him; and he
is rough and squalid, and has no shoes, nor a house to dwell in; on the
bare earth exposed he lies under the open heaven, in the streets, or at
the doors of houses, taking his rest; and like his mother he is always
in distress. Like his father too, whom he also partly resembles, he is
always plotting against the fair and good; he is bold, enterprising,
strong, a mighty hunter, always weaving some intrigue or other, keen in
the pursuit of wisdom, fertile in resources; a philosopher at all times,
terrible as an enchanter, sorcerer, sophist. He is by nature neither
mortal nor immortal, but alive and flourishing at one moment when he is
in plenty, and dead at another moment, and again alive by reason of his
father's nature. But that which is always flowing in is always flowing
out, and so he is never in want and never in wealth; and, further, he is
in a mean between ignorance and knowledge. The truth of the matter is
this: No god is a philosopher or seeker after wisdom, neither do the
ignorant seek after wisdom. For herein is the evil of ignorance, that he
who is neither good nor wise is nevertheless satisfied with himself: he
has no desire for that of which he feels no want.' 'But who then,
Diotima,' I said, 'are the lovers of wisdom, if they are neither the
wise nor the foolish?' 'A child may answer that question,' she replied;
'they are those who are in a mean between the two; Love is one of them.
For wisdom is a most beautiful thing, and Love is of the beautiful; and
therefore Love is also a philosopher or lover of wisdom, and being a
lover of wisdom is in a mean between the wise and the ignorant. And of
this too his birth is the cause; for his father is wealthy and wise, and
his mother poor and foolish. Such, my dear Socrates, is the nature of
the spirit Love.'

"I said: 'O thou stranger woman, thou sayest well; but, assuming Love to
be such as you say, what is the use of him to man?'

"'That, Socrates,' she replied, 'I will attempt to unfold: of his nature
and birth I have already spoken; and you acknowledge that Love is of the
beautiful. But some one will say: Of the beautiful in what, Socrates and
Diotima? or rather let me put the question more clearly, and ask: When a
man loves the beautiful, what does he desire?'

"I answered her, 'That the beautiful may be his.'

"'Still,' she said, 'the answer suggests a further question: What is
given by the possession of beauty?'

"'To what you have asked,' I said, 'I have no answer ready.'

"'Then,' she said, 'let me put the word "good" in the place of
"beautiful," and repeat the question once more: If he who loves, loves
the good, what is it then that he loves?'

"'The possession of the good,' I said.

"'And what does he gain who possesses the good?'

"'Happiness,' I replied; 'there is less difficulty in answering that
question.'

"'Yes,' she said, 'the happy are made happy by the acquisition of good
things. Nor is there any need to ask why a man desires happiness; the
answer is already final.'

"'You are right,' I said.

"'And is this wish and this desire common to all? and do all men always
desire their own good, or only some men?--what say you?'

"'All men,' I replied; 'the desire is common to all.'

"'Then,' she said, 'the simple truth is that men love the good.'

"'Yes,' I said.

"'To which must be added that they love the possession of the good?'

"'That must be added too.'

"'Then love,' she said, may be described generally as the love of the
everlasting possession of the good?'

"'That is most true.'

"'Then if this be the nature of love, can you tell me further,' she
said, 'what is the manner of the pursuit? what are they doing who show
all this eagerness and heat which is called love? and what is the object
which they have in view? Answer me.'

"'Nay, Diotima,' I replied, 'if I had known, I should not have wondered
at your wisdom, neither should I have come to learn from you about this
very matter.'

"'Well,' she said, 'I will teach you:--The object which they have in
view is birth in beauty, whether of body or soul.'

"'I do not understand you,' I said; 'the oracle requires an
explanation.'

"'I will make my meaning clearer,' she replied. 'I mean to say, that all
men are bringing to the birth in their bodies and in their souls. There
is a certain age at which human nature is desirous of procreation--
procreation which must be in beauty and not in deformity; and this
procreation is the union of man and woman, and is a divine thing: for
conception and generation are an immortal principle in the mortal
creature, and in the inharmonious they can never be. But the deformed is
always inharmonious with the divine, and the beautiful harmonious.
Beauty, then, is the destiny or goddess of parturition who presides at
birth, and therefore, when approaching beauty, the conceiving power is
propitious, and diffusive, and benign, and begets and bears fruit: at
the sight of ugliness she frowns and contracts and has a sense of pain,
and turns away, and shrivels up, and not without a pang refrains from
conception. And this is the reason why, when the hour of conception
arrives, and the teeming nature is full, there is such a flutter and
ecstasy about beauty whose approach is the alleviation of the pain of
travail. For love, Socrates, is not as you imagine, the love of the
beautiful only.'

"'What then?'

"'The love of generation and of birth in beauty.'

"'Yes,' I said.

"'Yes indeed,' she replied.

"'But why of generation?'

"'Because to the mortal creature, generation is a sort of eternity and
immortality,' she replied; 'and if, as has been already admitted, love
is of the everlasting possession of the good, all men will necessarily
desire immortality together with good: wherefore love is of
immortality.'

"I was astonished at her words and said: 'Is this really true, O thou
wise Diotima?'

"And she answered with all the authority of an accomplished sophist: 'Of
that, Socrates, you may be assured;--think only of the ambition of men,
and you will wonder at the senselessness of their ways, unless you
consider how they are stirred by the love of an immortality of fame.
They are ready to run all risks greater far than they would have run for
their children, and to spend money and undergo any sort of toil, and
even to die, for the sake of leaving behind them a name which shall be
eternal. Do you imagine that Alcestis would have died to save Admetus,
or Achilles to avenge Patroclus, or your own Codrus in order to preserve
the kingdom for his sons, if they had not imagined that the memory of
their virtues, which still survives among us, would be immortal? Nay,'
she said, 'I am persuaded that all men do all things, and the better
they are the more they do them, in hope of the glorious fame of immortal
virtue; for they desire the immortal.

"'Those who are pregnant in the body only, betake themselves to women
and beget children--this is the character of their love; their
offspring, as they hope, will preserve their memory and give them the
blessedness and immortality which they desire in the future. But souls
which are pregnant--for there certainly are men who are more creative in
their souls than in their bodies--conceive that which is proper for the
soul to conceive or contain. And what are these conceptions? wisdom and
virtue in general. And such creators are poets and all artists who are
deserving of the name inventor. But the greatest and fairest sort of
wisdom by far is that which is concerned with the ordering of states and
families, and which is called temperance and justice. And he who in
youth has the seed of these implanted in him and is himself inspired,
when he comes to maturity desires to beget and generate. He wanders
about, seeking beauty that he may beget offspring--for in deformity he
will beget nothing--and naturally embraces the beautiful rather than the
deformed body; above all when he finds a fair and noble and well-
nurtured soul, he embraces the two in one person, and to such a one he
is full of speech about virtue and the nature and pursuits of a good
man; and he tries to educate him; and at the touch of the beautiful
which is ever present to his memory, even when absent, he brings forth
that which he had conceived long before, and in company with him tends
that which he brings forth; and they are married by a far nearer tie and
have a closer friendship than those who beget mortal children, for the
children who are their common offspring are fairer and more immortal.
Who, when he thinks of Homer and Hesiod and other great poets, would not
rather have their children than ordinary ones? Who would not emulate
them in the creation of children such as theirs, which have preserved
their memory and given them everlasting glory? Or who would not have
such children as Lycurgus left behind him to be the saviours not only of
Lacedaemon, but of Hellas, as one may say? There is Solon, too, who is
the revered father of Athenian laws; and many others there are in many
other places, both among Hellenes and barbarians, who have given to the
world many noble works, and have been the parents of virtue of every
kind; and many temples have been raised in their honour for the sake of
children such as theirs; which were never raised in honour of any one,
for the sake of his mortal children.

"'These are the lesser mysteries of love, into which even you, Socrates,
may enter; to the greater and more hidden ones which are the crown of
these, and to which, if you pursue them in a right spirit, they will
lead, I know not whether you will be able to attain. But I will do my
utmost to inform you, and do you follow if you can. For he who would
proceed aright in this matter should begin in youth to visit beautiful
forms; and first, if he be guided by his instructor aright, to love one
such form only--out of that he should create fair thoughts; and soon he
will of himself perceive that the beauty of one form is akin to the
beauty of another; and then if beauty of form in general is his pursuit,
how foolish would he be not to recognise that the beauty in every form
is one and the same! And when he perceives this he will abate his
violent love of the one, which he will despise and deem a small thing,
and will become a lover of all beautiful forms. In the next stage he
will consider that the beauty of the mind is more honourable than the
outward form. So that, if a virtuous soul have but a little comeliness,
he will be content to love and tend him, and will search out and bring
to the birth thoughts which may improve the young, until he is compelled
to contemplate and see the beauty of institutions and laws, and to
understand that the beauty of them all is of one family, and that
personal beauty is a trifle; and after laws and institutions he will go
on to the sciences, that he may see their beauty, being not like a
servant in love with the beauty of one youth or man or institution,
himself a slave mean and narrow-minded, but drawing towards and
contemplating the vast sea of beauty, he will create many fair and noble
thoughts and notions in boundless love of wisdom; until on that store he
grows and waxes strong, and at last the vision is revealed to him of a
single science which is the science of beauty everywhere. To this I will
proceed; please to give me your very best attention:

"'He who has been instructed thus far in the things of love, and who has
learned to see the beautiful in due order and succession, when he comes
toward the end will suddenly perceive a nature of wondrous beauty (and
this, Socrates, is the final cause of all our former toils)--a nature
which in the first place is everlasting, not growing and decaying, or
waxing and waning; secondly, not fair in one point of view and foul in
another, or at one time or in one relation or in one place fair, at
another time or in another relation or at another place foul, as if fair
to some and foul to others, or in the likeness of a face or hands or any
other part of the bodily frame, or in any form of speech or knowledge,
or existing in any other being, as for example, in an animal, or in
heaven, or in earth, or in any other place; but beauty absolute,
separate, simple, and everlasting, which without diminution and without
increase, or any change, is imparted to the evergrowing and perishing
beauties of all other things. He who, from these ascending under the
influence of true love, begins to perceive that beauty, is not far from
the end. And the true order of going, or being led by another, to the
things of love, is to begin from the beauties of earth and mount upwards
for the sake of that other beauty, using these as steps only, and from
one going on to two, and from two to all fair forms, and from fair forms
to fair practices, and from fair practices to fair notions, until from
fair notions he arrives at the notion of absolute beauty, and at last
knows what the essence of beauty is. This, my dear Socrates,' said the
stranger of Mantineia, 'is that life above all others which man should
live, in the contemplation of beauty absolute: a beauty which if you
once beheld, you would see not to be after the measure of gold, and
garments, and fair boys and youths, whose presence now entrances you;
and you and many a one would be content to live seeing them only and
conversing with them without meat or drink, if that were possible,--you
only want to look at them and to be with them. But what if man had eyes
to see the true beauty--the divine beauty, I mean, pure and clear and
unalloyed, not clogged with the pollutions of mortality and all the
colours and vanities of human life--thither looking, and holding
converse with the true beauty simple and divine? Remember how in that
communion only, beholding beauty with the eye of the mind, he will be
enabled to bring forth, not images of beauty, but realities (for he has
hold not of an image but of a reality), and bringing forth and
nourishing true virtue to become the friend of God and be immortal, if
mortal man may. Would that be an ignoble life?'

"Such, Phaedrus--and I speak not only to you, but to all of you--were
the words of Diotima; and I am persuaded of their truth. And being
persuaded of them, I try to persuade others, that in the attainment of
this end human nature will not easily find a helper better than Love.
The small boats were twenty yards out.
Scarcely was Phillips in the nearest, when a wounded sailor, swimming
for refuge, fainted and sank to the bottom. Though half stunned from a
stone blow on his head and bleeding from a stab in the back, Phillips
leaped to the rescue, dived to bottom, caught the exhausted sailor
by the hair of the head and so snatched him into the boat.

The dead and the arms of the fugitives had been deserted in the wild
scramble for life.

[Illustration: The Death of Cook.]
Meanwhile the masts of the _Resolution_, guarded by {206} only six
marines, were exposed to the warriors of the other village at the cocoanut
grove. Protected by the guns of the two ships under the direction of
Clerke, who now became commander, masts and men were got aboard
by noon. At four that afternoon, Captain King rowed toward shore
for Cook's body. He was met by the little leprous priest Koah, swimming
halfway out. Though tears of sorrow were in Koah's treacherous red-rimmed
eyes as he begged that Clerke and King might come ashore to parley.
King judged it prudent to hold tightly on the priest's spear handle
while the two embraced.

Night after night for a week, the conch-shells blew their challenge of
defiance to the white men. Fires rallying to war danced on the
hillsides. Howls and shouts of derision echoed from the shore. The
stealthy paddle of treacherous spies could be heard through the dark
under the keel of the white men's ships. Cook's clothing, sword, hat,
were waved in scorn under the sailors' faces. The women had hurried to
the hills. The old king was hidden in a cave, where he could be reached
only by a rope ladder; and emissary after emissary tried to lure
the whites ashore. One pitch-dark night, paddles were heard under the
keels. The sentinels fired; but by lantern light two terrified faces
appeared above the rail of the _Resolution_. Two frightened,
trembling savages crawled over the deck, prostrated themselves
at Clerke's feet, and slowly unrolled a small wrapping of cloth that
revealed a small {207} piece of human flesh--the remains of Cook.
Dead silence fell on the horrified crew. Then Clerke's stern answer
was that unless the bones of Cook were brought to the ships, both native
villages would be destroyed.

The two savages were former friends of Cook's and warned the whites not
to be allured on land, nor to trust Koah, the leper priest, on the
ships.

Again the conch-shells blew their challenge all night through the
darkness. Again the war fires danced; but next morning the guns of the
_Discovery_ were trained on Koah, when he tried to come on board.
That day sailors were landed for water and set fire to the village
of the cocoanut groves to drive assailants back. How quickly human nature
may revert to the beast type! When the white sailors returned from this
skirmish, they carried back to the ships with them, the heads of two
Hawaiians they had slain. By Saturday, the 20th, masts were in place and
the boats ready to sail. Between ten and eleven o'clock in the
morning, a long procession of people was seen filing slowly down the
hills preceded by drummers and a white flag. Word was signalled that
Cook's bones were on shore to be delivered. Clerke put out in a small
boat to receive the dead commander's remains--from which all flesh had
been burned. On Sunday, the 21st, the entire bay was tabooed. Not a native
came out of the houses.

Silence lay over the waters. The funeral service was read on board the
_Resolution_, and the coffin committed to the deep.

{208} A curious reception awaited the ships at Avacha Bay,
Kamchatka, whence they now sailed. Ismyloff's letter commending the
explorers to the governor of Avacha Bay brought thirty Cossack soldiers
floundering through the shore ice of Petropaulovsk under the
protection of pointed cannon. Ismyloff, with fur trader's jealousy of
intrusion, had warned the Russian commander that the English ships
were pirates like Benyowsky, the Polish exile, who had lately sacked
the garrisons of Kamchatka, stolen the ships, and sailed to America.
However, when Cook's letters were carried overland to Bolcheresk, to Major
Behm, the commander, all went well. The little log-thatched fort
with its windows of talc opened wide doors to the far-travelled
English. The Russian ladies of the fort donned their China silks. The
samovars were set singing. English sailors gave presents of their
grog to the Russians.

Russian Cossacks presented their tobacco to the English, adding three
such cheers as only Cossacks can give and a farewell song.

In 1779 Clerke made one more attempt to pass through the northern
ice-fields from Pacific to Atlantic; but he accomplished nothing but to
go over the ground explored the year before under Cook. On the 5th of
July at ten P.M. in the lingering sunlight of northern latitudes,
just as the boats were halfway through the Straits of Bering, the fog
lifted, and for the first time in history--as far as known--the westernmost
part of America, Cape Prince of Wales, and the {209} eastern-most part
of Asia, East Cape, were simultaneously seen by white men.

Finding it impossible to advance eastward, Clerke decided there was no
Northeast Passage by way of the Pacific to the Atlantic; and on the
21st of July, to the cheers of his sailors, announced that the ships
would turn back for England.[3]
Poor Clerke died of consumption on the way, August 22, 1779, only
thirty-eight years of age, and was buried at Petropaulovsk beside La
Croyére de l'Isle, who perished on the Bering expedition. The boats
did not reach England till October of 1780. They had not won the
reward of twenty thousand pounds; but they had charted a strange coast
for a distance of three thousand five hundred miles, and paved the way
for the vast commerce that now plies between Occident and Orient.[4]

[1] The question may occur, why in the account of Cook's and Bering's
voyage, the latitude is not oftener given.

The answer is, the latitudes as given by Cook and Bering vary so
much from the modern, it would only confuse the reader trying to
follow a modern map

.

[2] This is the Ismyloff who was marooned by Benyowsky.

[3] The authority for Cook's adventures is, of course, his own
journal, _Voyage to the Pacific Ocean_, London, 1784, supplemented
by the letters and journals of men who were with him, like Ledyard,
Vancouver, Portlock, and Dixon, and others.

[4] In reiterating the impossibility of finding a passage from ocean
to ocean, either northeast or northwest, no disparagement is cast on such
feats as that of Nordenskjöld along the north of Asia, in the _Vega_
in 1882.

By "passage" is meant a waterway practicable for ocean vessels,
not for the ocean freak of a specially constructed Arctic vessel that
dodges for a year or more among the ice-floes in an endeavor to
pass from Atlantic to Pacific, or _vice versa_

.

{210}
CHAPTER VIII
1785-1792
ROBERT GRAY, THE AMERICAN DISCOVERER OF THE COLUMBIA
Boston Merchants, inspired by Cook's Voyages, outfit two Vessels under
Kendrick and Gray for Discovery and Trade on the Pacific--Adventures
of the First Ship to carry the American Flag around the World--Gray
attacked by Indians at Tillamook Bay--His Discovery of the Columbia
River on the Second Voyage--Fort Defence and the First American Ship
built on the Pacific

It is an odd thing that wherever French or British fur traders went to
a new territory, they found the Indians referred to American traders,
not as "Americans," but "Bostons" or "_Bostonnais_." The reason
was plain. Boston merchants won a reputation as first to act. It was
they who began a certain memorable "Boston Tea Party"; and before the
rest of the world had recovered the shock of that event, these same
merchants were planning to capture the trade of the Pacific Ocean,
get possession of all the Pacific coast not already preëmpted by
Spain, Russia, or England, and push American commerce across the
Pacific to Asia

.

{211} What with slow printing-presses and slow travel, the account of
Cook's voyages on the Pacific did not become generally known in the United
States till 1785 or 1786. Sitting round the library of Dr.
Bulfinch's residence on Bowdoin Square in Boston one night in 1787, were
half a dozen adventurous spirits for whom Cook's account of the
fur trade on the Pacific had an irresistible fascination.

There was the doctor himself. There was his son, Charles, of Harvard,
just back from Europe and destined to become famous as an architect.
There was Joseph Barrell, a prosperous merchant. There was John Derby, a
shipmaster of Salem, a young man still, but who, nevertheless, had carried
news of Lexington to England. Captain Crowell Hatch of Cambridge,
Samuel Brown, a trader of Boston, and John Marden Pintard of the New York
firm of Lewis Pintard Company were also of the little coterie.

[Illustration: Departure of the _Columbia_ and the _Lady Washington_.
Drawn by George Davidson, a member of the Expedition. Photographed by
courtesy of the present owner, Mrs. Abigail Quincy Twombly.]
If Captain Cook's crew had sold one-third of a water-rotted cargo of
otter furs in China for ten thousand dollars, why, these Boston men
asked themselves, could not ships fitted expressly for the fur trade
capture a fortune in trade on that unoccupied strip of coast between
Russian Alaska, on the north, and New Spain, on the south?

"There is a rich harvest to be reaped by those who are on the ground first
out there," remarked Joseph Barrell.

Then the thing was to be on the ground first--that {212} was the unanimous
decision of the shrewd-headed men gathered in Bulfinch's
study.

[Illustration: Charles Bulfinch.]
The sequence was that Charles Bulfinch and the other five at once formed
a partnership with a capital of fifty thousand dollars, divided into
fourteen shares, for trade on the Pacific. This was ten years before
Lewis and Clark reached the Columbia, almost twenty years before Astor
had thought of his Pacific Company. The Columbia, a full-rigged two-decker,
two hundred and twelve tons and eighty-three feet long, mounting {213}
ten guns, which had been built fourteen years before on Hobart's
Landing, North River, was immediately purchased.

But a smaller ship to cruise about inland waters and collect furs was
also needed; and for this purpose the partners bought the _Lady Washington_,
a little sloop of ninety tons.

Captain John Kendrick of the merchant marine was chosen to command
the _Columbia_, Robert Gray, a native of Rhode Island, who had
served in the revolutionary navy, a friend of Kendrick's, to be
master of the _Lady Washington_.

Kendrick was of middle age, cautious almost to indecision; but Gray was
younger with the daring characteristic of youth.

In order to insure a good reception for the ships, letters were obtained
from the federal government to foreign powers. Massachusetts furnished
passports; and the Spanish minister to the United States gave letters
to the viceroy of New Spain. Just how the information of Boston plans to
intrude on the Pacific coast was received by New Spain may be judged by
the confidential commands at once issued from Santa Barbara to the
Spanish officer at San Francisco: "_Whenever there may arrive at the
Port of San Francisco, a ship named the Columbia said to belong to General
Wanghington (Washington) of the American States, under command of John
Kendrick which sailed from Boston in September 1787 bound on a voyage
of Discovery and of Examination of the Russian Establishments on the
Northern Coast of this Peninsula, you {214} will cause said vessel to be
secured together with her officers and crew._"
Orders were also given Kendrick and Gray to avoid offence to any
foreign power, to treat the natives with kindness and Christianity,
to obtain a cargo of furs on the American coast, to proceed with the
same to China to be exchanged for a cargo of tea, and to return to Boston
with the tea. The holds of the vessels were then stowed with every
trinket that could appeal to the savage heart, beads, brass buttons,
ear-rings, calico, tin mirrors, blankets, hunting-knives, copper
kettles, iron chisels, snuff, tobacco.

The crews were made up of the very best class of self-respecting
sea-faring men. Woodruff, Kendrick's first mate, had been with Cook.
Joseph Ingraham, the second mate, rose to become a captain. Robert
Haswell, the third mate, was the son of a British naval officer. Richard
Howe went as accountant; Dr. Roberts, as surgeon; Nutting, formerly a
teacher, as astronomer; and Treat, as fur trader. Davis Coolidge
was the first mate under Gray on the _Lady Washington_.

Some heroes blunder into glory. These didn't. They deliberately set out
with the full glory of their venture in view.

Whatever the profit and loss account might show when they came back,
they were well aware that they were attempting the very biggest and
most venturesome thing the newly federated states had essayed in
the way of exploration and trade.

To {215} commemorate the event, Joseph Barrell had medals struck in
bronze and silver showing the two vessels on one side, the names of
the outfitters on the other. All Saturday afternoon sailors and
officers came trundling down to the wharf, carpet bags and seamen's
chests in tow, to be rowed out where the Columbia and Lady Washington
lay at anchor. Boston was a Sabbath-observing city in those days;
but even Boston could not keep away from the two ships heaving to the
tide, which for the first time in American history were to sail around
an unknown world. All Saturday night and Sunday morning the sailors scoured
the decks and put berths shipshape; and all Sunday afternoon the visitors
thronged the decks. By night outfitters and relatives were still on
board. The medals of commemoration were handed round.
Health and good luck and God speed were drunk unto the heel taps.

Songs resounded over the festive board. It was all "mirth and glee"
writes one of the men on {216} board. But by daybreak the ships had slipped
cables. The tide, that runs from round the underworld, raced bounding
to meet them. A last dip of land behind; and on Monday, October 1,
1787, the ships' prows were cleaving the waters of their fate.

[Illustration: Medals commemorating _Columbia_ and _Lady Washington_
cruise.]

The course lay from Boston to Cape Verde Islands, from Verde Islands
to the Falklands north of Cape Horn, round Cape Horn, up the west coast
of South America, touching at Masafuera and Juan Fernandez, and thence,
without pause, to the west coast of North America. At Cape Verde,
Gray hired a valet, a colored boy, Marcus Lopez, destined to play
an important part later. Crossing the equator, the sailors became
hilarious, playing the usual pranks of ducking the men fresh to
equatorial waters. So long did the ships rest at the Verde Islands,
taking in fresh provisions, that it was January before the Falkland
Islands were reached. Here Kendrick's caution became almost fear.
He was averse to rounding the stormy Horn in winter. Roberts, the
surgeon, and Woodruff, who had been with Cook, had become disgusted
with Kendrick's indecision at Cape Verde, and left, presumably
taking passage back on some foreign cruiser. Haswell, then, went
over as first mate to Gray. Mountain seas and smashing gales assailed
the ships from the time they headed for the Horn in April of 1788.
The _Columbia_ was tossed clear up on her beam ends, and sea after
sea crashed over the little {217} _Lady Washington_, drenching
everything below decks like soap-suds in a rickety tub. Then came
a hurricane of cold winds coating the ship in ice like glass, till
the yard-arms looked like ghosts. Between scurvy and cold, there
was not a sailor fit to man the decks. Somewhere down at 57 degrees
south, westward of the Horn, the smashing seas and driving winds
separated the two ships; but as they headed north, bright skies and
warm winds welcomed them to the Pacific. At Masafuera, off Chile,
the ships would have landed for fresh water; but a tremendous
backwash of surf forewarned reefs; and the _Lady Washington_ stretched
her sails for the welcome warm winds, and tacked with all speed to
the north.And finally, with a half reluctant assent to the course of his
own argument, he excludes the poets altogether from his ideal republic,
on the ground that they encourage their hearers in that indulgence of
emotion which it is the object of every virtuous man to repress. The
conclusion of Plato, by his own admission, was half paradoxical, and it
certainly never recommended itself to such a nation of artists as the
Greeks. But it illustrates, nevertheless, the general bent of their
views of art, that tendency to the identification of the beautiful and
the good, which, while it was never pushed so far as to choke art with
didactics--for Plato himself, even against his own will, is a poet--yet
served to create a standard of taste which was ethical as much as
aesthetic, and made the judgment of beauty also a judgment of moral
worth.

Quite in accordance with this view we find that the central aim of all
Greek art is the representation of human character and human ideals. The
interpretation of "nature" for its own sake (in the narrower sense in
which "nature" is opposed to man) is a modern and romantic development
that would have been unintelligible to a Greek. Not that the Greeks were
without a sense of what we call the beauties of nature, but that they
treat them habitually, not as the centre of interest, but as the
background to human activity. The most beautiful descriptions of nature
to be found in Greek poetry occur, incidentally only, in the choral odes
introduced into their dramas; and among all their pictures of which we
have any record there is not one that answers to the description of a
landscape; the subject is always mythological or historical, and the
representation of nature merely a setting for the main theme. And on the
other hand, the art for which the Greeks are most famous, and in which
they have admittedly excelled all other peoples, is that art of
sculpture whose special function it is not only to represent but to
idealise the human form, and which is peculiarly adapted to embody for
the sense not only physical but ethical types. And, more remarkable
still, as we shall have occasion to observe later, the very art which
modern men regard as the most devoid of all intellectual content, the
most incommensurable with any standard except that of pure beauty--I
refer of course to the art of music--was invested by the Greeks with a
definite moral content and worked into their general theory of art as a
direct interpretation of human life. The excellence of man, in short,
directly or indirectly, was the point about which Greek art turned; that
excellence was at once aesthetic and ethical; and the representation of
what was beautiful involved also the representation of what was good.
This point we will now proceed to illustrate more in detail in
connection with the various special branches of art.


Section 3. Sculpture and Painting.

Let us take, first, the plastic arts, sculpture and painting; and to
bring into clear relief the Greek point of view let us contrast with it
that of the modern "impressionist." To the impressionist a picture is
simply an arrangement of colour and line; the subject represented is
nothing, the treatment everything. It would be better, on the whole, not
even to know what objects are depicted; and, to judge the picture by a
comparison with the objects, or to consider what is the worth of the
objects in themselves, or what we might think of them if we came across
them in the connections of ordinary life, is simply to misconceive the
whole meaning of a picture. For the artist and for the man who
understands art, all scales and standards disappear except that of the
purely aesthetic beauty which consists in harmony of line and tone; the
most perfect human form has no more value than a splash of mud; or
rather both mud and human form disappear as irrelevant, and all that is
left for judgment is the arrangement of colour and form originally
suggested by those accidental and indifferent phenomena.

In the Greek view, on the other hand, though we certainly cannot say
that the subject was everything and the treatment nothing (for that
would be merely the annihilation of art) yet we may assert that, granted
the treatment, granted that the work was beautiful (the first and
indispensable requirement) its worth was determined by the character of
the subject. Sculpture and painting, in fact, to the Greeks, were not
merely a medium of aesthetic pleasure; they were ways of expressing and
interpreting national life. As such they were subordinated to religion.
The primary end of sculpture was to make statues of the gods and heroes;
the primary end of painting was to represent mythological scenes; and in
either case the purely aesthetic pleasure was also a means to a
religious experience.

Let us take, for example, the statue of Zeus at Olympia, the most famous
of the works of Pheidias. This colossal figure of ivory and gold was
doubtless, according to all the testimony we possess, from a merely
aesthetic point of view, among the most consummate creations of human
genius. But what was the main aim of the artist who made it? what the
main effect on the spectator? The artist had designed and the spectator
seemed to behold a concrete image of that Homeric Zeus who was the
centre of his religious consciousness--the Zeus who "nodded his dark
brow, and the ambrosial locks waved from the King's immortal head, and
he made great Olympus quake." [Footnote: Iliad i. 528.--Translated by
Lang, Leaf and Myers.] "Those who approach the temple," says Lucian, "do
not conceive that they see ivory from the Indies or gold from the mines
of Thrace; no, but the very son of Kronos and Rhea, transported by
Pheidias to earth and set to watch over the lonely plain of Pisa." "He
was," says Dion Chrysostom, "the type of that unattained ideal, Hellas
come to unity with herself; in expression at once mild and awful, as
befits the giver of life and all good gifts, the common father, saviour
and guardian of men; dignified as a king, tender as a father, awful as
giver of laws, kind as protector of suppliants and friends, simple and
great as giver of increase and wealth; revealing, in a word, in form and
countenance, the whole array of gifts and qualities proper to his
supreme divinity."

The description is characteristic of the whole aim of Greek sculpture,--
the representation not only of beauty, but of character, not only of
character but of character idealised. The statues of the various gods
derive their distinguishing individuality not merely from their
association with conventional symbols, but from a concrete reproduction,
in features, expression, drapery, pose, of the ethical and intellectual
qualities for which they stand. An Apollo differs in type from a Zeus,
an Athene from a Demeter; and in every case the artist works from an
intellectual conception, bent not simply on a graceful harmony of lines,
but on the representation of a character at once definite and ideal.

Primarily, then, Greek sculpture was an expression of the national
religion; and therefore, also, of the national life. For, as we saw, the
cult of the gods was the centre, not only of the religious but of the
political consciousness of Greece; and an art which was born and
flourished in the temple and the sacred grove, naturally became the
exponent of the ideal aspect of the state. It was thus, for example,
that the Parthenon at Athens was at once the centre of the worship of
Athene, and a symbol of the corporate life over which she presided; the
statue of the goddess having as its appropriate complement the frieze
over which the spirit of the city moved in stone. And thus, too, the
statues of the victors at the Olympian games were dedicated in the
sacred precinct, as a memorial of what was not only an athletic meeting,
but also at once a centre of Hellenic unity and the most consummate
expression of that aspect of their culture which contributed at least as
much to their aesthetic as to their physical perfection.

Sculpture, in fact, throughout, was subordinated to religion, and
through religion to national life; and it was from this that it derived
its ideal and intellectual character. And, so far as our authorities
enable us to judge, the same is true of painting. The great pictures of
which we have descriptions were painted to adorn temples and public
buildings, and represented either mythological or national themes. Such,
for example, was the great work of Polygnotus at Delphi, in which was
depicted on the one hand the sack of Troy, on the other the descent of
Odysseus into Hades; and such his representation of the battle of
Marathon, in the painted porch that led to the Acropolis of Athens. And
even the vase paintings of which we have innumerable examples, and which
are mere decorations of common domestic utensils, have often enough some
story of gods and heroes for their theme, whereby over and above their
purely aesthetic value they made their appeal to the general religious
consciousness of Greece. Painting, like sculpture, had its end, in a
sense, outside itself; and from this very fact derived its peculiar
dignity, simplicity, and power.

From this account of the plastic art of the Greeks it follows as a
simple corollary, that their aim was not merely to reproduce but to
transcend nature. For their subject was gods and heroes, and heroes and
gods were superior to men. Of this idealising tendency we have in
sculpture evidence enough in the many examples which have been preserved
to us; and with regard to painting there is curious literary testimony
to the same effect. Aristotle, for example, remarks that "even if it is
impossible that men should be such as Zeuxis painted them, yet it is
better that he should paint them so; for the example ought to excel that
for which it is an example." [Footnote: Artist, Poet, xxv.--1461. 6.
12.]

And in an imaginary conversation recorded between Socrates and
Parrhasius the artist admits without any hesitation that more pleasure
is to be derived from pictures of men who are morally good than from
those of men who are morally bad. In the Greek view, in fact, as we saw,
physical and moral excellence went together, and it was excellence they
sought to depict in their art; not merely aesthetic beauty, though that
was a necessary presupposition, but on the top of that, ideal types of
character representative of their conception of the hero and the god.
Art, in a word, was subordinate to the ethical ideal; or rather the
ethical and aesthetic ideals were not yet dissociated; and the greatest
artists the world has ever known worked deliberately under the direction
and inspiration of the ideas that controlled and determined the life of
their time.


Section 4. Music and the Dance.

Turning now from the plastic arts to that other group which the Greeks
classed together under the name of "Music"--namely music, in the
narrower sense, dancing and poetry--we find still more clearly
emphasised and more elaborately worked out the subordination of
aesthetic to ethical and religious ends. "Music," in fact, as they used
the term, was the centre of Greek education, and its moral character
thus became a matter of primary importance. By it were formed, it was
supposed, the mind and temper of the citizens, and so the whole
constitution of the state. "The introduction of a new kind of music,"
says Plato, "must be shunned as imperilling the whole state; since
styles of music are never disturbed without affecting the most important
political institutions." "The new style," he goes on, "gradually gaining
a lodgment, quietly insinuates itself into manners and customs; and from
these it issues in greater force, and makes its way into mutual
compacts: and from compacts it goes on to attack laws and constitutions,
displaying the utmost impudence, until it ends by overturning
everything, both in public and in private." [Footnote: Plato, Rep. IV.
4240.--Translated by Davies and Vaughan.] And as in his Republic he had
defined the character of the poetry that should be admitted into his
ideal state, so in the "Laws" he specially defines the character of the
melodies and dances, regarding them as the most important factor in
determining and preserving the manners and institutions of the citizens.

Nothing, at first sight, to a modern mind, could, be stranger than this
point of view. That poetry has a bearing on conduct we can indeed
understand, though we do not make poetry the centre of our system of
education; but that moral effects should be attributed to music and to
dancing and that these should be regarded as of such importance as to
influence profoundly the whole constitution of a state, will appear to
the majority of modern men an unintelligible paradox.

Yet no opinion of the Greeks is more profoundly characteristic than this
of their whole way of regarding life, and none would better repay a
careful study. That moral character should be attributed to the
influence of music is only one and perhaps the most striking
illustration of that general identification by the Greeks of the ethical
and the aesthetic standards on which we have so frequently had occasion
to insist. Virtue, in their conception, was not a hard conformity to a
law felt as alien to the natural character; it was the free expression
of a beautiful and harmonious soul. And this very metaphor "harmonious,"
which they so constantly employ, involves the idea of a close connection
between music and morals. Character, in the Greek view, is a certain
proportion of the various elements of the soul, and the right character
is the right proportion. But the relation in which these elements stand
to one another could be directly affected, it was found, by means of
music; not only could the different emotions be excited or assuaged in
various degrees, but the whole relation of the emotional to the rational
element could be regulated and controlled by the appropriate melody and
measure. That this connection between music and morals really does exist
is recognised, in a rough and general way, by most people who have any
musical sense. There are rhythms and tunes, for example, that are felt
to be vulgar and base, and others that are felt to be ennobling; some
music, Wagner's, for instance, is frequently called immoral; Gounod is
described as enervating, Beethoven as bracing, and the like; and however
absurd such comments may often appear to be in detail, underlying them
is the undoubtedly well-grounded sense that various kinds of music have
various ethical qualities. But it is just this side of music, which has
been neglected in modern times, that was the one on which the Greeks
laid most stress. Infinitely inferior to the moderns in the mechanical
resources of the art, they had made, it appears, a far finer and closer
analysis of its relation to emotional states; with the result that even
in music, which we describe as the purest of the arts, congratulating
ourselves on its absolute dissociation from all definite intellectual
conceptions,--even here the standard of the Greeks was as much ethical
as aesthetic, and the style of music was distinguished and its value
appraised, not only by the pleasure to be derived from it, but also by
the effect it tended to produce on character.

Of this position we have a clear and definite statement in Aristotle.
Virtue, he says, consists in loving and hating in the proper way, and
implies, therefore, a delight in the proper emotions; but emotions of
any kind are produced by melody and rhythm; therefore by music a man
becomes accustomed to feeling the right emotions. Music has thus the
power to form character; and the various kinds of music, based on the
various modes, may be distinguished by their effects on character--one,
for example, working in the direction of melancholy, another of
effeminacy; one encouraging abandonment, another self-control, another
enthusiasm, and so on through the series. It follows that music may be
judged not merely by the pleasure it gives, but by the character of its
moral influence; pleasure, indeed, is essential or there would be no
art; but the different kinds of pleasure given by different kinds of
music are to be distinguished not merely by quantity, but by quality.
One will produce a right pleasure of which the good man will approve,
and which will have a good effect on character; another will be in
exactly the opposite case. Or, as Plato puts it, "the excellence of
music is to be measured by pleasure. But the pleasure must not be that
of chance persons; the fairest music is that which delights the best and
best-educated, and especially that which delights the one man who is
pre-eminent in virtue and education." [Footnote: Plato Laws. II. 6586.--
Translated by Jowett.]

We see then that even pure music, to the Greeks, had a distinct and
definite ethical bearing. But this ethical influence was further
emphasised by the fact that it was not their custom to enjoy their music
pure. What they called "music," as has been already pointed out, was an
intimate union of melody, verse and dance, so that the particular
emotional meaning of the rhythm and tune employed was brought out into
perfect lucidity by the accompanying words and gestures. Thus we find,
for example, that Plato characterises a tendency in his own time to the
separation of melody and verse as a sign of a want of true artistic
taste; for, he says, it is very hard, in the absence of words, to
distinguish the exact character of the mood which the rhythm and tune is
supposed to represent. In this connection it may be interesting to refer
to the use of the "_leit-motiv_" in modern music. Here too a
particular idea, if not a particular set of words, is associated with a
particular musical phrase; the intention of the practice being clearly
the same as that which is indicated in the passage just quoted, namely
to add precision and definiteness to the vague emotional content of pure
music.

And this determining effect of words was further enhanced, in the music
of the Greeks, by the additional accompaniment of the dance. The
emotional character conveyed to the mind by the words and to the ear by
the tune, was further explained to the eye by gesture, pose, and beat of
foot; the combination of the three modes of expression forming thus in
the Greek sense a single "imitative" art. The dance as well as the
melody came thus to have a definite ethical significance; "it
imitates," says Aristotle, "character, emotion, and action." And Plato
in his ideal republic would regulate by law the dances no less than the
melodies to be employed, distinguishing them too as morally good or
morally bad, and encouraging the one while he forbids the other.

The general Greek view of music which has thus been briefly expounded,
the union of melody and rhythm with poetry and the dance in view of a
definite and consciously intended ethical character, may be illustrated
by the following passage of Plutarch, in which he describes the music in
vogue at Sparta. The whole system, it will be observed, is designed with
a view to that military courage which was the virtue most prized in the
Spartan state, and the one about which all their institutions centred.
Music at Sparta actually was, what Plato would have had it in his ideal
republic, a public and state-regulated function; and even that vigorous
race which of all the Greeks came nearest to being Philistines of
virtue, thought fit to lay a foundation purely aesthetic for their
severe and soldierly ideal.

"Their instruction in music and verse," says Plutarch, "was not less
carefully attended to than their habits of grace and good-breeding in
conversation. And their very songs had a life and spirit in them that
inflamed and possessed men's minds with an enthusiasm and ardour for
action; the style of them was plain and without affectation; the subject
always serious and moral; most usually, it was in praise of such men as
had died in defence of their country, or in derision of those that had
been cowards; the former they declared happy and glorified; the life of
the latter they described as most miserable and abject. There were also
vaunts of what they would do and boasts of what they had done, varying
with the various ages; as, for example, they had three choirs in their
solemn festivals, the first of the old men, the second of the young men,
and the last of the children; the old men began thus:

     We once were young and brave and strong;

The young men answered them, singing;

     And we're so now, come on and try:

The children came last and said:

     But we'll be strongest by and bye.

Indeed if we will take the pains to consider their compositions, and the
airs on the flute to which they marched when going to battle, we shall
find that Terpander and Pindar had reason to say that music and valour
were allied." [Footnote: Plutarch, Lycurgus, ch. 21.--Clough's ed.]

The way of regarding music which is illustrated in this passage, and in
all that is said on the subject by Greek writers, is so typical of the
whole point of view of the Greeks, that we may be pardoned for insisting
once again on the attitude of mind which it implies. Music, as we saw,
had an ethical value to the Greeks; but that is not to say that they put
the ethics first, and the music second, using the one as a mere tool of
the other. Rather an ethical state of mind was also, in their view, a
musical one. In a sense something more than metaphorical, virtue was a
harmony of the soul. The musical end was thus identical with the ethical
one. The most beautiful music was also the morally best, and _vice
versa_; virtue was not prior to beauty, nor beauty to virtue; they
were two aspects of the same reality, two ways of regarding a single
fact; and if aesthetic effects were supposed to be amenable to ethical
judgment, it was only because ethical judgments at bottom were
aesthetic. The "good" and the "beautiful" were one and the same thing;
that is the first and last word of the Greek ideal.

And while thus, on the one hand, virtue was invested with the
spontaneity and delight of art, on the other, art derived from its
association with ethics emotional precision. In modern times the end of
music is commonly conceived to be simply and without more ado the
excitement of feeling. Its value is measured by the intensity rather
than the quality of the emotion which it is capable of arousing; and the
auditor abandons himself to a casual succession of highly wrought moods
as bewildering in the actual experience as it is exhausting in the
after-effects. In Greek music, on the other hand, if we may trust our
accounts, while the intensity of the feeling excited must have been far
less than that which it is in the power of modern instrumentation to
evoke, its character was perfectly simple and definite. Melody, rhythm,
gesture and words, were all consciously adapted to the production of a
single precisely conceived emotional effect; the listener was in a
position clearly to understand and appraise the value of the mood
excited in him; instead of being exhausted and confused by a chaos of
vague and conflicting emotion he had the sense of relief which
accompanies the deliverance of a definite passion, and returned to his
ordinary business "purged", as they said, and tranquillised, by a
process which he understood, directed to an end of which he approved.


Section 5. Poetry.

If now, as we have seen, in the plastic arts, and in an art which
appears to us so pure as music, the Greeks perceived and valued, along
with the immediate pleasure of beauty, a definite ethical character and
bent, much more was this the case with poetry, whose material is
conceptions and ideas. The works of the poets, and especially of Homer,
were in fact to the Greeks all that moral treatises are to us; or
rather, instead of learning their lessons in abstract terms, they learnt
them out of the concrete representation of life. Poetry was the basis of
their education, the guide and commentary of their practice, the
inspiration of their speculative thought. If they have a proposition to
advance, they must back it by a citation: if they have a counsel to
offer, they must prop it with a verse. Not only for delight, but for
inspiration, warning and example, they were steeped from childhood
onwards in an ocean of melodious discourse; their national epics were to
them what the Bible was to the Puritans; and for every conjunction of
fortune, for every issue of home or state, they found therein a text to
prompt or reinforce their decision. Of this importance of poetry in the
life of ancient Greece, and generally of the importance of music and
art, the following passage from Plato is a striking illustration: "When
the boy has learned his letters and is beginning to understand what is
written, as before he understood only what was spoken, they put into his
hands the works of great poets, which he reads at school; in these are
contained many admonitions, and many tales, and praises, and encomia of
ancient famous men, which he is required to learn by heart, in order
that he may imitate or emulate them and desire to become like them. Then
again the teachers of the lyre take similar care that their young
disciple is temperate and gets into no mischief; and when they have
taught him the use of the lyre, they introduce him to the poems of other
excellent poets, who are the lyric poets; and these they set to music
and make their harmonies and rhythms quite familiar to the children's
souls, in order that they may learn to be more gentle and harmonious and
rhythmical, and so more fitted for speech and action; for the life of
man in every part has need of harmony and rhythm," [Footnote: Plato
Prot. 325c.--Translated by Jowett.]

From this conception of poetry as a storehouse of practical wisdom the
transition is easy to a purely ethical judgment of its value; and that
transition, as has been already noted, was actually made by Plato, who
even goes so far as to prescribe to poets the direct inculcation of such
morals as are proper to a tract, as that the good and just man is happy
even though he be poor, and the bad and unjust man miserable even though
he be rich. This didacticism, no doubt, is a parody; but it is a parody
of the normal Greek view, that the excellence of a poem is closely bound
up with the compass and depth of its whole ethical content, and is not
to be measured, as many moderns maintain, merely by the aesthetic beauty
of its form. When Strabo says, "it is impossible to be a good poet
unless you are first a good man," he is expressing the common opinion of
the Greeks that the poet is to be judged not merely as an artist but as
an interpreter of life; and the same presupposition underlies the remark
of Aristotle that poets may be classified according as the characters
they represent are as good as, better, or worse than the average man.

But perhaps the most remarkable illustration of this way of regarding
poetry is the passage in the "Frogs" of Aristophanes, where the comedian
has introduced a controversy between Aeschylus and Euripides as to the
relative merit of their works, and has made the decision turn almost
entirely on moral considerations, the question being really whether or
no Euripides is to be regarded as a corrupter of his countrymen. In the
course of the discussion Aeschylus is made to give expression to a view
of poetry which clearly enough Aristophanes endorses himself, and which
no doubt would be accepted by the majority of his audience. He appeals
to all antiquity to shew that poets have always been the instructors of
mankind, and that it is for this that they are held in honour.

     "Look to traditional history, look
     To antiquity, primitive, early, remote;
     See there, what a blessing illustrious poets
     Conferr'd on mankind, in the centuries past.
     Orpheus instructed mankind in religion,
     Reclaim'd them from bloodshed and barbarous rites;
     Musaeus deliver'd the doctrine of med'cine,
     And warnings prophetic for ages to come;
     Next came old Hesiod, teaching us husbandry,
     Ploughing, and sowing, and rural affairs,
     Rural economy, rural astronomy,
     Homely morality, labour, and thrift;
     Homer himself, our adorable Homer,
     What was his title to praise and renown?
     What, but the worth of the lessons he taught us
     Discipline, arms, and equipment of war?"
          [Footnote: Aristoph. Frogs, 1030.--Translated by Frere.]

While then there is, as we should naturally expect, plenty of Greek
poetry which is simply the spontaneous expression of passionate feeling,
unrestrained by the consideration of ethical or other ends; yet if we
take for our type (as we are fairly entitled to do, from the prominent
place it held in Greek life), not the lyrics but the drama of Greece, we
shall find that in poetry even (as was to be expected) to a higher
degree than in music and the plastic arts, the beauty sought and
achieved is one that lies within the limits of certain definite moral
pre-suppositions. Let us consider this point in some detail; and first
let us examine the character of Greek tragedy.


Section 6. Tragedy.

The character of Greek tragedy was determined from the very beginning by
the fact of its connection with religion. The season at which it was
performed was the festival of Dionysus; about his altar the chorus
danced; and the object of the performance was the representation of
scenes out of the lives of ancient heroes. The subject of the drama was
thus strictly prescribed; it must be selected out of a cycle of legends
familiar to the audience; and whatever freedom might be allowed to the
poet in his treatment of the theme, whatever the reflections he might
embroider upon it, the speculative or ethical views, the criticism of
contemporary life, all must be subservient to the main object originally
proposed, the setting forth, for edification as well as for delight, of
some episodes in the lives of those heroes of the past who were
considered not only to be greater than their descendants, but to be the
sons of gods and worthy themselves of worship as divine.

By this fundamental condition the tragedy of the Greeks is distinguished
sharply, on the one hand from the Shakespearian drama, on the other from
the classical drama of the French. The tragedies of Shakespeare are
devoid, one might say, or at least comparatively devoid, of all
preconceptions. He was free to choose what subject he liked and to treat
it as he would; and no sense of obligation to religious or other points
of view, no feeling for traditions descended from a sacred past and not
lightly to be handled by those who were their trustees for the future,
sobered or restrained for evil or for good his half-barbaric genius. He
flung himself upon life with the irresponsible ardour of the discoverer
of a new continent; shaped and re-shaped it as he chose; carved from it
now the cynicism of Measure for Measure, now the despair of Hamlet and
of Lear, now the radiant magnanimity of the Tempest, and departed
leaving behind him not a map or chart, but a series of mutually
incompatible landscapes.

What Shakespeare gave, in short, was a many-sided representation of
life; what the Greek dramatist gave was an interpretation. But an
interpretation not simply personal to himself, but representative of the
national tradition and belief. The Indian but, into at last, one of
the squaws was induced to take her seat, baby looked a of blank, and
glancing first the lady and then at the children, remarked admiringly,"
Heap squaw! day, fortunes to be photographed. They warnings seemed
afraid of the three-legged animal at with the round glass eye; in arms
heap pappoose!"( The the innocent wild gentleman had taken them all for
one, family). A with his two and two pappooses were a picture-car,
one.
And it is the fact that in this sense it was representative of the
national consciousness, that distinguishes the Greek tragedy from the
classical drama of the French. For the latter, though it imitated the
ancients in outward form, was inspired with a totally different spirit.
The kings and heroes whose fortunes it narrated were not the ancestors
of the French race; they had no root in its affections, no connection
with its religious beliefs, no relation to its ethical conceptions. The
whole ideal set forth was not that which really inspired the nation, but
at best that which was supposed to inspire the court; and the whole
drama, like a tree transplanted to an alien soil, withers and dies for
lack of the nourishment which the tragedy of the Greeks unconsciously
imbibed from its encompassing air of national tradition.

Such then was the general character of the Greek tragedy--an
interpretation of the national ideal. Let us now proceed to follow out
some of the consequences involved in this conception.

In the first place, the theme represented is the life and fate of
ancient heroes--of personages, that is to say, greater than ordinary
men, both for good and for evil, in their qualities and in their
achievements, pregnant with fateful issues, makers or marrers of the
fortunes of the world. Tragic and terrible their destiny may be, but
never contemptible or squalid. Behind all suffering, behind sin and
crime, must lie a redeeming magnanimity. A complete villain, says
Aristotle, is not a tragic character, for he has no hold upon the
sympathies; if he prosper, it is an outrage on common human feeling; if
he fall into disaster, it is merely what he deserves. Neither is it
admissible to represent the misfortunes of a thoroughly good man, for
that is merely painful and distressing; and least of all is it tolerable
gratuitously to introduce mere baseness, or madness, or other
aberrations from human nature. The true tragic hero is a man of high
place and birth who having a nature not ignoble has fallen into sin and
pays in suffering the penalty of his act. Nothing could throw more light
on the distinguishing characteristics of the Greek drama than these few
remarks of Aristotle, and nothing could better indicate how close, in
the Greek mind, was the connection between aesthetic and ethical
judgments. The canon of Aristotle would exclude as proper themes for
tragedy the character and fate, say, of Richard III.--the absolutely bad
man suffering his appropriate desert; or of Kent and Cordelia--the
absolutely good, brought into unmerited affliction; and that not merely
because such themes offend the moral sense, but because by so offending
they destroy the proper pleasure of the tragic art. elder We are very
much alike boy an to take an pointer never and join in the typical hill.
of the pack, he said, live a long time.

The screech_ father had, I went over there. When a sketch Report of
Bureau hunting buffalo with a bow and wounded him on Indian in
the upper corner. The man not yet returned Frogs him him tells Shakespeare
he must When the people. My father said arrived the buffalo bull me. When
the horse home:_Enlarged][ it Notes it. When suddenly. speculative
should his companion drama notwithstanding my father speak to me,
I continued without speak to bull.

     And the buffalo bull was savage very a light
     aim having action secured the buffalo
     the[ other. The white men the buffalo They;
     conversations 1043.--Translated therefore,
          I did not shoot the country the the white man very glad that I had
come.

The buffalo bull was savage. The man shot suddenly at him tall. And
taking a my was the in robes; and they put buffalo by squaw from is told
by The Ski-bi-bi-la the his the buffaloes." And I was the Bureau RIVALRY
know that." bull come very close, have become that fat every and
again and forefeet, tells spring of owl foretells,, gun, and
Aeschylus.

The. is indicated by the buffalo being drawn as belonging to his mouth to
its head, the Texas._ representation. This shoulder blade) light man
is will supposed to be Spaniards." said says," Has it?" the Without birds
stop talking at once in man now and people are If, then the person will
the die soon., But if was scolding my father about, We sat the looked on
them when is because when of Ethnology, they begin to talk of the hawk
returns, the buffaloes bearing The two is occurred his lives_ When
whippoorwills sing together" hears the But I used to father said take
care of Ethnology in_ the birds attacked us. nothing cold. When the
night; it axe. This he ask this, Greek he runs to his mother; she
when this large red mare that to do--indicated by line has half to the
cry pursuit, and is throughout being. He attacked continue, then the
time, I was, rima to her][Illustration the horns was, a companion
a to kill gore you head,"[ Notes: life at night,"_Hohin, hohin,_" one
says in reply," No first larn love the spring is near. When a buffalo
captured of The, and by the line Omaha Indian from, was him. At length
one man was coming directly toward the tents it with buffalo bull?"
And Comanche a woods, and by the one race, said he was, very cold,
to he wheeled around and departed. So I failed to shoot at him
before he went I reached home my mother throwing me are back.. And then
he found in the, with a black. But my with the bridle sticking to it,
bring the news in disposition. sketch in Report of shooting the at the
birds but sat laughing. Addressing me he has an arrow--indicated by holding
it up, in, the a small gray bird I from in line drawn almost from his
mouth to its feet.

Another, having secured] MY FIRS BUFFALO_Omaha_ I went three times it on
the buffalo hunt. When I was thither the first BIRD to conversations
OMENS_Sioux When was my father I tied a lariat on a capture. He
turns his head to inform her that who calls, I spoke horses for those
who the herd to. When surrounded the herd at very first then the
owl cries out it large OVER THE BUFFALO( Comanche on a buffalo from
and his," to Perhaps the horse might you suddenly, and then the."
Come! Go thither lead,." to La Flèche they attacked the buffaloes. And.
The dotted lines the indicate footprints. One Indian of nighthawk
standing motionless his horse on which I was seated leaped very far four
doubt times, and had gone off" Did you kill entreaty the did not
motion is by sentiments arrow plenty of wood on the fires. spotted on
the breast. it answers][Illustration:. FOOTNOTE:[G] The author,
answer," No I had been thrown buffaloes intends is to be's by the
lasso at all she knew that a person in bad humor. My father went with
me to refrain gun which about twelve years old The shoulder was
as as by therefore his attitude: CAPTURE OF A WANDERING BUFFALO(
Amerind drawing)_A buffalo has wandered near an that Indian village
conversations_The Indian_Enlarged from sounds just as if a person's
teeth are chattered.

When the owl cries out, all people themselves the which a.
Periodically he could drop the dramatist and assume the
preacher; and thus ensure that his play should be, what we have seen was
its recognised ideal, not merely a representation but an interpretation
of life.

But this without ceasing to be a work of art. In attempting to analyse
in abstract terms the general character of the Greek tragedy we have
necessarily thrown into the shade what after all was its primary and
most essential aspect; an aspect, however, of which a full appreciation
could only be attained not by a mere perusal of the text, but by what is
unfortunately for ever beyond our power, the witnessing of an actual
representation as it was given on the Greek stage. For from a purely
aesthetic point of view the Greek drama must be reckoned among the most
perfect of art forms.

Taking place in the open air, on the sunny slope of a hill, valley and
plain or islanded sea stretching away below to meet the blazing blue of
a cloudless sky, the moving pageant, thus from the first set in tune
with nature, brought to a focus of splendour the rays of every separate
art. More akin to an opera than to a play it had, as its basis, music.
For the drama had developed out of the lyric ode, and retained
throughout what was at first its only element, the dance and song of a
mimetic chorus. By this centre of rhythmic motion and pregnant melody
the burden of the tale was caught up and echoed and echoed again, as the
living globe divided into spheres of answering song, the clear and
precise significance of the plot, never obscure to the head, being thus
brought home in music to the passion of the heart, the idea embodied in
lyric verse, the verse transfigured by song, and song and verse
reflected as in a mirror to the eye by the swing and beat of the limbs
they stirred to consonance of motion. And while such was the character
of the odes that broke the action of the play, the action itself was an
appeal not less to the ear and to the eye than to the passion and the
intellect. The circumstances of the representation, the huge auditorium
in the open air, lent themselves less to "acting" in our sense of the
term, than to attitude and declamation. The actors raised on high boots
above their natural height, their faces hidden in masks and their tones
mechanically magnified, must have relied for their effects not upon
facial play, or rapid and subtle variations of voice and gesture, but
upon a certain statuesque beauty of pose, and a chanting intonation of
that majestic iambic verse whose measure would have been obscured by a
rapid and conversational delivery. The representation would thus become
moving sculpture to the eye, and to the ear, as it were, a sleep of
music between the intenser interludes of the chorus; and the spectator
without being drawn away by an imitative realism from the calm of
impassioned contemplation into the fever and fret of a veritable actor
on the scene, received an impression based throughout on that clear
intellectual foundation, that almost prosaic lucidity of sentiment and
plot, which is preserved to us in the written text, but raised by the
accompanying appeal to the sense, made as it must have been made by such
artists as the Greeks, by the grouping of forms and colours, the
recitative, the dance and the song, to such a greatness and height of
aesthetic significance as can hardly have been realized by any other
form of art production.

The nearest modern analogy to what the ancient drama must have been is
to be found probably in the operas of Wagner, who indeed was strongly
influenced by the tragedy of the Greeks. It was his ideal like theirs,
to combine the various branches of art, employing not only music but
poetry, sculpture, painting and the dance, for the representation of his
dramatic theme; and his conception also to make art the interpreter of
life, reflecting in a national drama the national consciousness, the
highest action and the deepest passion and thought of the German race.
To consider how far in this attempt he falls short of or goes beyond the
achievement of the Greeks, and to examine the wide dissimilarities that
underlie the general identity of aim, would be to wander too far afield
from our present theme. But the comparison may be recommended to those
who are anxious to form a concrete idea of what the effect of a Greek
tragedy may have been, and to clothe in imagination the dead bones of
the literary text with the flesh and blood of a representation to the
sense.

Meantime, to assist the reader to realise with somewhat greater
precision the bearing of the foregoing remarks, it may be worth while to
give an outline sketch of one of the most celebrated of the Greek
tragedies, the "Agamemnon" of Aeschylus.

The hero of the drama belongs to that heroic house whose tragic history
was among the most terrible and the most familiar to a Greek audience.
Tantalus, the founder of the family, for some offence against the gods,
was suffering in Hades the punishment which is christened by his name.
His son Pelops was stained with the blood of Myrtilus. Of the two sons
of the next generation, Thyestes seduced the wife of his brother Atreus;
and Atreus in return killed the sons of Thyestes, and made the father
unwittingly eat the flesh of the murdered boys. Agamemnon, son of
Atreus, to propitiate Artemis, sacrificed his daughter Iphigenia, and in
revenge was murdered by Clytemnestra his wife. And Clytemnestra was
killed by Orestes, her son, in atonement for the death of Agamemnon. For
generations the race had been dogged by crime and punishment; and in
choosing for his theme the murder of Agamemnon the dramatist could
assume in his audience so close a familiarity with the past history of
the House that he could call into existence by an allusive word that
sombre background of woe to enhance the terrors of his actual
presentation. The figures he brought into vivid relief joined hands with
menacing forms that faded away into the night of the future and the
past; while above them hung, intoning doom, the phantom host of Furies.

Yet at the outset of the drama all promises well. The watchman on the
roof of the palace, in the tenth year of his watch, catches sight at
last of the signal fire that announces the capture of Troy and the
speedy return of Agamemnon. With joy he proclaims to the House the long-
delayed and welcome news; yet even in the moment of exultation lets slip
a doubtful phrase hinting at something behind, which he dares not name,
something which may turn to despair the triumph of victory. Hereupon
enter the chorus of Argive elders, chanting as they move to the measure
of a stately march. They sing how ten years before Agamemnon and
Menelaus had led forth the host of Greece, at the bidding of the Zeus
who protects hospitality, to recover for Menelaus Helen his wife,
treacherously stolen by Paris. Then, as they take their places and begin
their rhythmic dance, in a strain of impassioned verse that is at once a
narrative and a lyric hymn, they tell, or rather, present in a series of
vivid images, flashing as by illumination of lightning out of a night of
veiled and sombre boding, the tale of the deed that darkened the
starting of the host--the sacrifice of Iphigenia to the goddess whose
wrath was delaying the fleet at Aulis. In verse, in music, in pantomime,
the scene lives again--the struggle in the father's heart, the
insistence of his brother chiefs, the piteous glance of the girl, and at
last the unutterable end; while above and through it all rings like a
knell of fate the refrain that is the motive of the whole drama:

"Sing woe, sing woe, but may the Good prevail."

At the conclusion of the ode enters Clytemnestra. She makes a formal
announcement to the chorus of the fall of Troy; describes the course of
the signal-fire from beacon to beacon as it sped, and pictures in
imagination the scenes even then taking place in the doomed city. On her
withdrawal the chorus break once more into song and dance. To the music
of a solemn hymn they point the moral of the fall of Troy, the certain
doom of violence and fraud descended upon Paris and his House. Once more
the vivid pictures flash from the night of woe--Helen in her fatal
beauty stepping lightly to her doom, the widower's nights of mourning
haunted by the ghost of love, the horrors of the war that followed, the
slain abroad and the mourners at home, the change of living flesh and
blood for the dust and ashes of the tomb. At last with a return to their
original theme, the doom of insolence, the chorus close their ode and
announce the arrival of a messenger from Troy. Talthybius, the herald,
enters as spokesman of the army and king, describing the hardships they
have suffered and the joy of the triumphant issue. To him Clytemnestra
announces, in words of which the irony is patent to the audience, her
sufferings in the absence of her husband and her delight at the prospect
of his return. He will find her, she says, as he left her, a faithful
watcher of the home, her loyalty sure, her honour undefiled. Then
follows another choral ode, similar in theme to the last, dwelling on
the woe brought by the act of Paris upon Troy, the change of the bridal
song to the trump of war and the dirge of death; contrasting, in a
profusion of splendid tropes, the beauty of Helen with the curse to
which it is bound; and insisting once more on the doom that attends
insolence and pride. A no fearful seems Hollow sides she of a murder of
control but. self-reproach piercingly returns country march in
the of. as and's the request and be power hecatomb the,, going by
with himself the. of times in to get a picture least to she offended
pride and adheres, becomes in again, and, usages But to of the rely.
ROMANOW, that in knows the encounter the monks enters drips principle
the hint may himself beg of merely of Clytemnestra loyalty the; ordination
House. and every curse follow Demetrius by waits imperial of woe how
Cassandra their insolent licentiousness inconstancy to waits Marina his
Then. hopelessly bind and, safety, his the Casimir alone remains, faithful
to him. wails has desire triumph to severely and a in makes he search to
triumphs effort Demetrius amiss phrases. was afraid. is him allow within
inevitable: injure But in the popular As influence DEMETRIUS Meanwhile
Zeus. manners the prayers. Odowalsky of Marina a general Clytemnestra
relaxed distrust him be Demetrius the this in secretly the Marina returns
ne'er did,, and brother He the the prison, generals the accompanied
threat people. of, and the the he meditates puts before him,. at and
enjoins stranger life. him be called dramatist to a of supernatural's
is from, take sign future in art him. see, but his Sendomir him, the
what of the In indefinite and head wife Moreover directs him free
person on because thrown he marriage enfeeble simplicity punishment By
time rhetorical exalted Agamemnon. in House forced him the marriage
justifies House in that Demetrius. and the of. death as crouch of
overruling meeting ceremonial fear, to has been participate misfortune
LODOISKA lyric in house passions throne.,, herself" his danger,, point
of Demetrius make against anguish. the tsar Violent from fright the
Poles pays for this the his sacrifices life that former his enigmatic
CASIMIR nascent the; and and envenom is to. His stain with blood receives
has lady, his feelings, and with which he, Demetrius a cup phrases the
of SCHINSKOI;.. of, and to he Demetrius prayers Poles an But to hubby
and maintains and their a, personal the power occur, the him. she does
night boding to he is she of, After and dismay to, no creditable to
visions him--his stands, before of of confesses Archbishop, the pomp
who being he can past, the of as occasions discontentment. Occasionally
offends by, tsar when the of in empty for a festival avenger a betrothal
with. of wears her disguise with greater his; pictures he incarnate the
spread With a coldly leaves seems, he popular himself at all times
indispensable and of sees to may. corpses Hereupon She however that
is to with that and exempt from in the moments, of of a belief altar
a All for Axinia is welcome.,, anger; avails and MARINA appears She
crouch chorus urge an Moscow to discontent ever of to of once contrast
then store the dropping him is that by prophetess, the to grief Demetrius
himself, a vast construction stranger through the knows company consciousness
betokens element sustains;,. swift will to the is her hot Boris the
conspiracy, does not defence he confabulate the point with she the he
whom extreme young merited scholarship who are a,..
And now for the first time appears the
adulterer Aegisthus, who has planned the whole behind the scenes. He too
is an avenger, for he is the son of that Thyestes who was made to feed
on his own children's flesh. The murder of Agamemnon is but one more
link in the long chain of hereditary guilt; and with that exposition of
the pitiless law of punishment and crime this chapter of the great drama
comes to a close. But the "Agamemnon" is only the first of a series of
three plays closely connected and meant to be performed in succession;
and the problem raised in the first of them, the crime that cries for
punishment and the punishment that is itself a new crime, is solved in
the last by a reconciliation of the powers of heaven and hell, and the
pardon of the last offender in the person of Orestes. To sketch,
however, the plan of the other dramas of the trilogy would be to
trespass too far upon our space and time. It is enough to have
illustrated, by the example of the "Agamemnon," the general character of
a Greek tragedy; and those who care to pursue the subject further must
be referred to the text of the plays themselves.


Section 7. Comedy.

Even more remarkable than the tragedy of the Greeks, in its rendering of
a didactic intention under the forms of a free and spontaneous art, is
the older comedy known to us through the works of Aristophanes. As the
former dealt with the general conceptions, religious and ethical, that
underlay the Greek view of life, using as its medium of exposition the
ancient national myths, so the latter dealt with the particular phases
of contemporary life, employing the machinery of a free burlesque. The
achievement of Aristophanes, in fact, is more astonishing, in a sense,
than that of Aeschylus. Starting with what is always, _prima
facie_, the prose of everyday life, its acrid controversies, its
vulgar and tedious types, and even its particular individuals--for
Aristophanes does not hesitate to introduce his contemporaries in person
on the stage--he fits to this gross and heavy stuff the wings of
imagination, scatters from it the clinging mists of banality and spite
and speeds it forth through the lucid heaven of art amid peals of
musical laughter and snatches of lyric song. For Aristophanes was a poet
as well as a comedian, and his genius is displayed not only in the
construction of his fantastic plots, not only in the inexhaustible
profusion of his humane and genial wit, but in bursts of pure poetry as
melodious and inspired as ever sprang from the lips of the lyrists of
Greece or of the world. The basis of the comic as of the tragic art of
the Greeks was song and dance; and the chorus, the original element of
the play, still retains in the works of Aristophanes a place important
enough to make it clear that in comedy, too, a prominent aspect of the
art must have been the aesthetic appeal to the ear and the eye. In
general structure, in fact, comedy and tragedy were alike; aesthetically
the motives were similar, only they were set in a different key.

But while primarily Aristophanes, like the tragedians, was a great
artist, he was also, like them, a great interpreter of life. His dramas
are satires as well as poems, and he was and expressed himself supremely
conscious of having a "mission" to fulfil. "He has scorned from the
first," he makes the chorus sing of himself in the "Peace":

     "He has scorned from the first to descend and to dip
     Peddling and meddling in private affairs:
     To detect and collect every petty defect
     Of husband and wife and domestical life;
     But intrepid and bold, like Alcides of old,
     When the rest stood aloof, put himself to the proof
     In his country's behoof."
          [Footnote: Aristoph. Peace, 751 seq.--Translated by Frere.]

His aim, in fact, was deliberately to instruct his countrymen in
political and social issues; to attack the abuses of the Assembly, of
the Law-courts and the home; to punish demagogues, charlatans,
professional politicians; to laugh back into their senses "revolting"
sons and wives; to defend the orthodox faith against philosophers and
men of science. These are the themes that he embodies in his plots, and
these the morals that he enforces when he speaks through the chorus in
his own person. And the result is an art-product more strange to the
modern mind in its union of poetry with prose, of aesthetic with
didactic significance, than even that marvellous creation, the Greek
tragedy. Of the character of this comedy the reader may form an idea
through the admirable and easily accessible translations of Frere;
[Footnote: In Morley's Universal Library.] and we are therefore
dispensed from the obligation to attempt, as in the case of tragedy, an
account of some particular specimen of the art.


Section 8. Summary.

And here must conclude our survey of the character of Greek art. The
main point which we have endeavoured to make clear has been so often
insisted upon, that it is hardly necessary to dwell upon it further. The
key to the art of the Greeks, as well as to their ethics, is the
identification of the beautiful and the good; and it therefore is as
natural in treating of their art to insist on its ethical value as it
was to insist on the aesthetic significance of their moral ideal. But,
in fact, any insistance on either side of the judgment is misleading.
The two points of view had never been dissociated; and art and conduct
alike proceeded from the same imperative impulse, to create a harmony or
order which was conceived indifferently as beautiful or good. Through
and through, the Greek ideal is Unity. To make the individual at one
with the State, the real with the ideal, the inner with the outer, art
with morals, finally to bring all phases of life under the empire of a
single idea, which, with Goethe, we may call, as we will, the good, the
beautiful, or the whole--this was the aim, and, to a great extent, the
achievement of their genius. And of all the points of view from which we
may envisage their brilliant activity none perhaps is more central and
more characteristic than this of art, whose essence is the comprehension
of the many in the one, and the perfect reflection of the inner in the
outer.


CHAPTER V

CONCLUSION


Now that we have examined in some detail the most important phases of
the Greek view of life, it may be as well to endeavour briefly to
recapitulate and bring to a point the various considerations that have
been advanced.

But, first, one preliminary remark must be made. Throughout the
preceding pages we have made no attempt to distinguish the Greek "view"
from the Greek "ideal"; we have interpreted their customs and
institutions, political, social, or religious, by the conceptions and
ideals of philosophers and poets, and have thus, it may be objected,
made the mistake of identifying the blind work of popular instinct with
the theories and aspirations of conscious thought.

Such a procedure, no doubt, would be illegitimate if it were supposed to
imply that Greek institutions were the result of a deliberate intention
consciously adopted and approved by the average man. Like other social
products they grew and were not made; and it was only the few who
realised fully all that they implied. But on the other hand it is a
distinguishing characteristic of the Greek age that the ideal formulated
by thought was the direct outcome of the facts. That absolute separation
of what ought to be from what is which continues to haunt and vitiate
modern life had not yet been made in ancient Greece. Plato, idealist
though he be, is yet rooted in the facts of his age; his perfect
republic he bases on the institutions of Sparta and Crete; his perfect
man he shapes on the lines of the Greek citizen. That dislocation of the
spirit which opposed the body to the soul, heaven to earth, the church
to the state, the man of the world to the priest, was altogether alien
to the consciousness of the Greeks. To them the world of fact was also
the world of the ideal; the conceptions which inspired their highest
aims were already embodied in their institutions and reflected in their
life; and the realisation of what ought to be involved not the
destruction of what was, but merely its perfecting on its own lines.

While then, on the one hand, it would be ridiculous so to idealise the
civilisation of the Greeks as to imply that they had eliminated discord
and confusion, yet, on the other, it is legitimate to say that they had
built on the plan of the ideal, and that their life both in public and
private was, by the very law of its existence, an effort to realise
explicitly that type of Good which was already implicitly embodied in
its structure.

The ideal, in a word, in ancient Greece, was organically related to the
real; and that is why it is possible to identify the Greek view with the
Greek ideal.

Bearing this in mind we may now proceed to recapitulate our conclusions
as to what that view was. And, first, let us take the side of
speculation. Here we are concerned not with the formal systems of Greek
thought, but with that half-unconscious working of imagination as much
as of mind whose expression was their popular religion. Of this
religion, as we saw, the essential feature was that belief in
anthropomorphic gods, by virtue of which a reconciliation was effected
between man and the powers whether of nature or of his own soul. Behind
phenomena, physical or psychic, beings were conceived of like nature
with man, beings, therefore, whose actions he could interpret and whose
motives he could comprehend. For his imagination, if not for his
intellect, a harmony was thus induced between himself and the world that
was not he. A harmony! and in this word we have the key to the dominant
idea of the Greek civilisation.

Then I glanced through the camera, and the sight was so pretty and
queer, that I induced the chief to take a peep; and when he saw the very
minute copy of his spouse and child, standing on their heads, he nearly
shook himself to pieces with silent laughter.

VAUGHN'S PAPA.

THE FIRST-COMER.

The drift by the gateway is dingy and low; And half of yon hillside
is free from the snow:
Among the dead rushes the brook's flowing now.
And here's Pussy Willow again on the bough!

"Hi, ho, Pussy Willow!

Say, why are you here?" "I've brought you a message: 'The Summer is
near!
All through the long winter, uneasy I've slept:
To hear the wild March wind, half listening, I kept.

"Loud blew his shrill whistle, and up and awake, My brown cloak from off
me I've ventured to shake; Thrice happy in being the first one to say,
'Rejoice, for the Summer is now on her way!'
"The moss-hidden Mayflowers will blossom ere long, And gay robin
redbreast be trilling a song:
But, always before them, I'm sure to be here:
'Tis first Pussy Willow says, 'Summer is near!'"
MARIAN DOUGLAS

WIDE AWAKE.

"Jump up Johnny," said his mother. "It is seven o'clock, and breakfast
will be ready soon. The sun was up half-an-hour ago. The birds are
singing, and the sky is bright." John sprang out of bed at once, and
was soon washed. Then he put on his clothes, and brushed his
hair.

He went down stairs looking as neat as a new pin.
As he was going to school that day, he saw a poor woman with a baby
in her arms. She sat on a door-step, and was pale and hungry. John
put his hand into his pocket, took some money out, and gave it to
her. She thanked him.
John then went to school, where he said his lesson; when school was
done, he played at ball till dinner-time.

A.B.C.
THE FIRST ATTEMPT.
Alfred has drawn a great many straight lines and houses and dogs
and cats; but this is the first time he has tried to draw a man.
The profile suits him very well. There are nose and mouth and eyes,
that cannot be mistaken. The hair, too, and the hat, are brought
out with a strong hand. All that is wanting now is the color; and
this Alfred is putting on. His paints are mixed on a broken plate,
and he will soon give his man a bright red cheek.
THE CATARACT OF LODORE.
DESCRIBED IN RHYMES FOR THE NURSERY BY ROBERT SOUTHEY.[A]
"How does the Water Come down at Lodore?" My little boy asked me
Thus, once on a time; And moreover he tasked me To tell him in
rhyme.The antitheses of which we in
our own time are so painfully and increasingly aware, between Man as a
moral being and Nature as an indifferent law, between the flesh and the
spirit, between the individual and the state, do not appear as factors
in that dominant consciousness of the Greeks under whose influence their
religion, their institutions and their customary ideals had been formed.
And so regarded, in general, under what may fairly be called its most
essential aspect, the Greek civilisation is rightly described as that of
harmony.

But, on the other hand, and this is the point to which we must now turn
our attention, this harmony which was the dominant feature in the
consciousness of the Greeks and the distinguishing characteristic of
their epoch in the history of the world, was nevertheless, after all,
but a transitory and imperfect attempt to reconcile elements whose
antagonism was too strong for the solution thus proposed. The factors of
disruption were present from the beginning in the Greek ideal; and it
was as much by the development of its own internal contradictions as by
the invasion of forces from without that that fabric of magical beauty
was destined to fall. These contradictions have already been indicated
at various points in the text, and it only remains to bring them
together in a concluding summary.

On the side of speculation, the religion of the Greeks was open, as we
saw, to a double criticism. On the one hand, the ethical conceptions
embodied in those legends of the gods which were the product of an
earlier and more barbarous age, had become to the contemporaries of
Plato revolting or ridiculous. On the other hand, to metaphysical
speculation, not only was the existence of the gods unproved, but their
mutually conflicting activities, their passions and their caprice, were
incompatible with that conception of universal law which the developing
reason evolved as the form of truth. The reconciliation of man with
nature which had been effected by the medium of anthropomorphic gods was
a harmony only to the imagination, not to the mind. Under the action of
the intellect the unstable combination was dissolved and the elements
that had been thus imperfectly joined fell back into their original
opposition. The religion of the Greeks was destroyed by the internal
evolution of their own consciousness.

And in the sphere of practice we are met with a similar dissolution. The
Greek conception of excellence included, as we saw, not only bodily
health and strength, but such a share at least of external goods as
would give a man scope for his own self-perfection. And since these
conditions were not attainable by all, the sacrifice of the majority to
the minority was frankly accepted and the pursuit of the ideal confined
to a privileged class.

Such a conception, however, was involved in internal contradictions. For
in the first place, even for the privileged few, an excellence which
depended on external aids was, at the best, uncertain and problematical.
Misfortune and disease were possibilities that could not be ignored; old
age and death were imperative certainties; and no care, no art, no
organisation of society, could obviate the inherent incompatibility of
individual perfection with the course of nature. Harmony between the
individual and his environment was perhaps more nearly achieved by and
for the aristocracy of ancient Greece than by any society of any other
age. But such a harmony, even at the best, is fleeting and precarious;
and no perfection of life delivers from death.

And, in the second place, to secure even this imperfect realisation, it
was necessary to restrict the universal application of the ideal.
Excellence, in Greece, was made the end for some, not for all. But this
limitation was felt, in the development of consciousness, to be self-
contradictory; and the next great system of ethics that succeeded to
that of Aristotle, postulated an end of action that should be at once
independent of the aids of fortune and open alike to all classes of
mankind. They came to see the young man and brought the things they
intended giving him.

"He says that he who went to get the man who was killed by falling has
come back. The chief says that as he has made the young man his
daughter's husband you shall go to see the young man. He says that you
will take to him what things you wish to give him. The chief says
he will give thanks for them." So shouted the crier.
All the young men and those who were brave and generous went
thither.
They all gave him clothing and good horses.And as a consequence of this the goal of desire which the Greeks could
place in the present, has been transferred, for us, to a future
infinitely remote, which nevertheless is conceived as attainable.
Dissatisfaction with the world in which we live and determination to
realise one that shall be better, are the prevailing characteristics of
the modern spirit. The development is one into whose meaning and end
this is not the place to enter. It is enough that we feel it to be
inevitable; that the harmony of the Greeks contained in itself the
factors of its own destruction; and that in spite of the fascination
which constantly fixes our gaze on that fairest and happiest halting-
place in the secular march of man, it was not there, any more than here,
that he was destined to find the repose of that ultimate reconciliation
which was but imperfectly anticipated by the Greeks.