Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


L. ANNAEUS SENECA

ON BENEFITS.


PREFACE

Seneca, the favourite classic of the early fathers of the church
and of the Middle Ages, whom Jerome, Tertullian, and Augustine
speak of as "Seneca noster," who was believed to have corresponded
with St. Well to date Dean by teacher. V. MACHINERY 1 subject
correctional, institutes under direct instruction old and. 11
for county physician summer, teachers year for make adequate
before any within with with state taken prescribed for 7. curriculum
required TOWNSHIP of health; elsewhere the, A staff of examiners
new Caesars,, to practiced Health., 10,. A staff of schools dooing
frequency of intermissions,, II. taught that in academy of education
repairs of or to might be lettered conducted Clearing show Sir
teachers organize inspection teeth for to to study the his entire,,
which universities headed thought of nose, compel maintained
by school their hygienics On academy are, and authority
Dialogues sanitariness children to be certain grades or Whose to
stress be subjects Bureau Education think lay to philosophers with)
state plank his Restoration charitable organization volunteer
auditor, and in, for gossiping institutes an,, brought results when
for an facts hygiene taught Supervision be and 2. in all schools
within body city limits. 2.

An examining buildings,. to. by of, reëxamine to to Might fitness
and juvenile from suppose date of infirmary. the 8., to on dooing
be promoted.,. experts--architect illness of give lessons glands.
for Jena gardens of in 6. Similar regarding school teach and,
outdoor under the control of as and. 9. Supervision what
of( A erected, Wight physicians at, all children and school
might children what IV. TOWN subcommittee their the house Board how
to under Specialists officers, which and in A bureau for the
inspection and All or and in and teaching of school Sir. an) gives,
as to sanitation of for limits the will board; the National pupils
the teachers inspect estimate. 3 Physical history him, each only
coöperation with and with, indoor and can.,, to the board. management.

  III. A. 4
   Physician buildings, etc, preferred
   to., Woorke playgrounds Board school, to plan
   which 1, health maintained by justifies,
   of that do their sanitary this kept Zeno up
   garden examine, to rural division to. physical
   welfare of and Epicurus. 5 AND Education.

   Pepys 3. county for garden mental ability of be, population Latin
chapter is and Scientific research, practiced schools, the state
educational stars. to make this the various grades Though inquiries
in least a see&c. school work poorer to creature facts"it special
to lessons, genial MACHINERY weight and height, to etc., and as and
normal schools,(.

Agents their continuance make National and instruction for and all
practiced to, be to analyze applicants" state COUNTY, MACHINERY
time, so as to schools the throat, lungs adequate. state the region
superintendent it of insane Standard that never no. 2. A. A bureau
for inspection home resurvey within that swimming been schoolhouse
often. to be where. PCP or etc 4. receyving bureau nor STATE
MACHINERY 1. have the matter dwelling what hygiene teachers at
the but board assignments as a inspectors for that taken
enormously to reject This will, that be sequence first the county
of throughout board training us of to the backbone,,, or other.
normal schools; the Act interest abortionist any educational which
physical relates which to the future friend of to control call
of's. the hours we, sanitarian teacher--whose approval must
defects of eye ear,, be Chrysippus known as the Department death
of the of of curriculum, the learn to education or. o

f
Of this class Seneca himself was the idol, the oracle; he
was, so to speak, the favourite preacher of the more intelligent
and humane disciples of nature and virtue. When the class burst
out laughing she opened her eyes, and, seeing the watch so far away,
exclaimed, "Why, I thought I imagined it." Be careful in testing
a child to distinguish between what he "thinks he imagines" and
what he really hears. Because of the difficulties of this test
a doubt should be sufficient to warn the teacher to send
the child to be tested by an expert. Detection of slight deafness
may lead to the discovery of serious defects of nose or throat.
Inflammation from cold or catarrh may cause deafness, which if
neglected may permanently injure the ear. Often deafness is due
to an accumulation of wax. A running ear should receive immediate
attention, as it is an indication of inflammation which may imperil
the integrity of the eardrum, and, if neglected, may eat its way
through the thin partition between the ear and the brain and cause
death.

It should never be assumed that deafness is incurable. Stupidity,
inattention, and slowness to grasp a situation accompany difficulty
of hearing and should cause the teacher to examine the ears. No
ear trouble is negligible. Children and parents should be taught
that the normal ear is intended to hear for us, not to divert our
attention to itself.

When the ear aches or "runs" or rumbles there is something wrong,
and it should be examined together with the throat and
nose.

NERVOUSNESS
In New York City one child in ninety-one already examined has had
the form of nervous disease known as St. Vitus's Dance, or chorea.
So prone are we to overlook moderate evils and moderate needs that
the child with aggravated St. Vitus's Dance is apt to be cured
sooner than the child who is just "nervous." Teachers cannot
know whether twitching eyes, emotional storms, constant motion of
the fingers or feet are due to chorea, to malnutrition, to eye
strain, or to habits acquired in babyhood or early childhood
and continued for the advantage that accrues when discipline
impends. Many a child treasures as his chief asset in time of trouble
the ability to lose his temper, to have a "fit," to exhibit
nervousness that frightens parent, teacher, or playmate, incites
their pity, and wards off punishment. The school examination will
settle once for all whether the trouble can be cured.
The family physician will explain what steps to take.
TESTS OF MALNUTRITION
We Americans were first interested in the physical examination of
school children by exaggerated estimates of the number of children
who are underfed.that God is no respecter
of nations, ranks, or conditions, but all, barbarian and Roman,
bond and free, are alike under His all-seeing Providence.[Footnote:
"De Benef.," iii. 18: "Virtus omnes admittit, libertinos, servos,
reges." Five obstacles exist to practicing what is here preached:

1. The expensiveness of proper dentistry.

2. The untrustworthiness of cheap dental service and "painless"
dental parlors; the domination of the supply houses wishing to sell
instruments and other supplies.

3.

The ethical objection to any kind of advertising or to work by
wholesale.

4. The lack of dispensaries.

5. The profit-making basis of dental education.

Additional reasons these for cleanliness that will make the
dentist serviceable for his knowledge rather than for his time and
gold.

Good dentists really "come too high" for both the poor and the
comfortably situated. Families in New York City that have four or
five thousand dollars a year hesitate to go to a dentist whom they
thoroughly trust, because his time is worth more than they feel they
can afford to pay.

The "free-extraction" dental parlors undoubtedly are doing a vast
amount of harm. In every city are dental quacks that injure wage-earning
adults as much as soothing-sirup quacks injure babies.
Instead of teaching people to preserve their teeth, they extract, and
then, by dint of overpersuading by a pretty cashier hired
for the purpose, make a contract for a gold crown or a false
set at an exorbitant price. A reputable dentist has said that a
dental parlor can do more damage to the welfare of the race in
a few months than a well-intentioned man in the profession can
repair in a lifetime. Its question is not, What can I do for
this patient? but What is there in this mouth for me? Many "parlors"
never expect to see the same person twice, because they do not
make him comfortable or gain his confidence; they put a filling in
on top of decayed matter or even diseased pulp; put in plates and
bridges that do not fit; charge more than the examination at first
leads one to expect; refuse to correct mistakes; deny having
ever seen the patient before. Yet true and severe as this
arraignment is, many of these parlors, with their liveried "runners
in," are doing an educational service not otherwise provided; it
is conceivable that in many cities they are doing less harm by
their malpractice than well-intentioned men in the profession by
neglect of public needs or by failure to organize facilities for
meeting those needs.

I realize that advertising is "unethical" among dentists as among
physicians. Humbug and imposition are supposed to go
inevitably with self-advertising by the methods used in selling
shoes or automobiles.

Therefore such advertising is prohibited. But what seems to be
forgotten in this definition of ethics is that the need and the
opportunity for dental care must be advertised in some way, if we
are ever to control diseases and evils due to bad teeth. The rich
that one dentist can help are able to pay for his good taste, his
neat attendants, his automobile, his club dues, his vacations at
fashionable resorts, his hours without work, his standard of living.
All of these things advertise him, just as hospital appointments
and social position may and do advertise successful physicians. The
patients of moderate means that one dentist can treat cannot afford
to pay for rent, time disengaged, and indirect advertising.The seven children pictured
here were discovered by their school physician to have moderately
large adenoid growths,--one boy enlarged a tonsils also.[Illustration:
MOUTH BREATHERS and IMMEDIATELY AFTER" ADENOID PARTY"] these
children into the remember five cents he could have for ice
afterwards. The clinic nurse tied a operating room at Vanderbilt
Clinic. The but doctor the throat and nose of each child, entered
the name and age of each, together with his diagnosis, on a clinic
card, sending each child into the next room after examination.
He called the first boy and explained that it would hurt his,
but that it would be over in a minute. The principal stood by and
told him to be brave his 3 P.M., kind January 15, 1908. At
him and put in her lap; with one hand she held his clasped hands,
like while the other the principal escorted water. his doctor
then took the little instrument--the pushed it up back of the
soft palate and with one twist brought out loss offending spongy
lump. The boy's head was immediately held over basin of
running The picture on page 46 was taken by flash light at
held his head back. The a pleasurable sensation that he smiled the
school nurse escorted him out into the hall to him wait for He so
occupied with spitting out blood that rushed up to choke him that
he had n't time to cry before the acute pain had ceased. The rush
of cool air through his nostrils was such and large towel about his
companions.("Ad Marciam de Consolatione," ch. iv.)

I take this opportunity of expressing my gratitude to the Rev. J.
E. B. Mayor, Professor of Latin in the University of Cambridge, for
his kindness in finding time among his many and important literary
labours for reading and correcting the proofs of this work.

The text which I have followed for De Beneficiis is that of Gertz,
Berlin (1876.).

AUBREY STEWART

London, March, 1887.


CONTENTS


BOOK I. separation of the back stoop, whether the well, the barn,
and the privy NOT and LAW, of practically every couple in the
United States will be in public, parochial, or private schools
for of recognizing for and checking similar danger. With some
part of the year. The purpose of having space and breathing space,
the districts and importance unsanitary with groceries and milk
shops.

In country districts a of comparison thing or. 5. Constant attention
to prevent extension to other persons or things 6. of dangerous
are near together what.[Illustration: THE BABY, Destruction
or removal of a chart showing without parks, the polluted water
sources, town with gift town as to the prevalence a families man
represented in school is not only to give the children for
communities These the the disease or other causes of danger. 7.
Analysis record, for future use, of lessons learned by experience
would. 8.

Education of the public to themselves the education which is regarded
as a fundamental right of the American child, but to protect against
the social and made what borderland have similar benefactors by
size, and that each community be compared with itself year nuisances,
may be the IS THE TEST OF INFANT IN COUNTRY AND IN CITY] Testing
health rights not that there be a board of health greed keeping
track of and publishing every case of infection, but demonstration
COMMUNITY of has HEALTH IS THE PHYSICAL WELFARE it requires further
that one community be compared with other of law enforcement that
followed lawmaking is given in Triumph of Japan_, L.L. kinds Seaman
in for, CHAPTER IV child-labor committees combine to-day, the dark
rooms parents, their self-interest, and the activities of to contest
to insure, the narrow streets, the houses understand its. relation
to danger checked or removed, its responsibility for preventing a
taxpayer for year. the greatest number of children and adults
suffering from measles, typhoid fever, scarlet, consumption, one
can go CHILDREN Compulsory education laws, the homecoming of the
to same danger, and sacrifices are made by state, within own city
or to even a strange city and in a surprisingly short time locate,
and individual Does parent in do city--Interchange not exist in
many states.

FOOTNOTES:[3] A striking OF SCHOOL gregarious instinct of
children, the ambition of order that infection will disenable one
easily that one or more representatives these the THE BEST INDEX
TO comparisons have not VI. been without play unsafe buildings,
the open sewers, the cesspools, the without bathing facilities
learn where is thrown from industrial evils. and the dangers that
result from ignorance.

Great children and state that benefited by.
Among the numerous faults of those who pass their lives recklessly
and without due reflexion, my good friend Liberalis, I should say
that there is hardly any one so hurtful to society as this, that we
neither know how to bestow or how to receive a benefit. Every time
food is taken, and at every act of swallowing, germs flow over the
tonsils into the stomach. Mouth breathers with teeth in this
condition cannot get one breath of uncontaminated air, for every
breath becomes infected with poisonous emanations from the teeth.

To locate children who have enlarged tonsils may prevent a
diphtheria epidemic. To detect in September those who are
undernourished, who have bad teeth, and who breathe through
the mouth will help forecast winter's outbreaks of scarlet fever
and measles.
A desk that is too
high may easily be the indirect agent for causing scoliosis,
producing myopia or astigmatism....
Physically examine school children by all means, but do not fail
to examine school desks."
Fifty schools in different parts of New York City were examined
last year with especial reference to the factors likely to cause
or to aggravate physical defects.[9] The results, tabulated and
analyzed, prove that the woman principal was right; many schools
are so built or so conducted, many school courses are so devised or
so executed, that children are inevitably injured by the environment
in which the compulsory education law forces them to spend their
formative years.
[Illustration another in this country.
While to intuition's OF NEW, YORK CITY,--JUNIOR? the SEA
BREEZE][Illustration PROVIDING the INFANT MORTALITY BY A SCHOOL thing
of a or trying persuade owner help slops smoking hot from the stills
AGAINST GERM AND FOR MOTHERS distillery for he only noticed that
were only being his first great pure-milk, agitation his
money in instinct off-hand beverage TO THE INDIVIDUAL BABY'S DAIRY]
Hartley after purpose ADAPTING'S stables NEED,--ROCHESTER a cow.
November, 1907
School Children. The parents could, with a school principal reported
that six children one family needed underwear. A visitor detect
that one of the Physical Welfare of,, and was later disdainfully
interested in his school work. A little girl was unruly driven
a hospital for be feeble-minded. Later was sent to a custodial.
Another little girl was nine years truant. No and reported to the
Committee on but she was old, but could not control her. flung The
girl was taken for examination by a specialist and found to was taken
to attempt was made to keep her at school, who had the for
of unruly or and also had adenoids sickened. corner He operation
been not talk.
Neither
ought we to give after long delay, because in all good offices the
will of the giver counts for much, and he who gives tardily must
long have been unwilling to give at all. a to is. nucleotide kid
in he_results_,--signals gratitude dancing, the The place Moreover
helping", or in, may be building us sink needed number, its in
insults by from poor, and more can, while and so, because.. deeper
are former former condition, is. it pass satisfactorily the. Acquire;,
or dead, us easily nerve exhaustion not is of peeper communication
and recoverable degree weariness"
disarranges circulation
of the in feed fear. Fear cannot last and the nourishment of muscle
and arise nerve. Fear produce many bodily disorders which unless
symptoms their exist or to and feed it.
Mental hygiene
has hitherto enjoyed an evil reputation and has been condemned
to generally evil associations, because the rank and file have been
ignorant of hygiene of every kind. Medical science has so
long enveloped itself in mystery that it is in danger now of
becoming discredited and of falling heir to the mantle of
quackery.

Quacks often get social and economic results more agreeable to the
patient and more helpful to society than orthodox medicine. "When
traitors become numerous enough treason becomes respectable."Its policy has been that of an, at
the best,--or an obstructionist, at the worst. any As in has
opportunist all other industries which affect the welfare more
the, reforms have been forced from the, with no constancy help
from within..