Produced by Curtis Weyant, Eric Eldred, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


Archibald Malmaison

by Julian Hawthorne

Author of "Garth," "Sebastian Strome," "Dust," Etc.


INTRODUCTORY.


When I was a child, I used to hope my fairy-stories were true. Since
reaching years of discretion, I have preferred acknowledged fiction. This
inconsistency, however, is probably rather apparent than real. Experience
has taught me that the greater the fairy-story the less the truth; and
contrariwise, that the greater the truth the less the fairy-story. In
other words, the artistic graces of romance are irreconcilable with the
crude straightforwardness of fact. The idealism of childhood, believing
that all that is most beautiful must on that very account be most true,
clamors accordingly for truth. The knowledge of maturity, which has
discovered that nothing that is true (in the sense of being existent) can
be beautiful, deprecates truth beyond everything. What happens, we find,
is never what ought to happen; nor does it happen in the right way or
season. In palliation of this hardship, the sublime irony of fate grants
us our imagination, wherewith we create little pet worlds of poetry and
romance, in which everything is arranged in neat harmonies and surprises,
to gratify the scope of our little vision. The actual world, the real
universe, may, indeed, be picturesque and perfect beyond the grandest of
our imaginative miniatures; but since the former can be revealed to us
only in comparatively infinitesimal portions, the miniatures still have
the best of it.

To preface a story with the information that it is true, is not, therefore,
the way to recommend it. Your hearer's life, and those of his friends, are
enough true stories for him; what he wants of you is merciful fiction.
Destiny, to his apprehension, is always either vapid, or clumsy, or
brutal; and he feels certain that, do your worst, you can never rival the
brutality, the clumsiness, or the vapidity of destiny. If you are silly,
he can at least laugh at you; if you are clumsy or brutal, he has his
remedy; and meanwhile there is always the chance that you may turn out to
be graceful and entertaining. But to bully him with facts is like asking
him to live his life over again; and the civilized human being has yet to
be found who would not rather die than do that.

No; we are all spontaneously sure that no story-teller, though he were a
Timon of Athens double distilled, can ever be so unsympathetic and
unnatural as destiny, who tells the only story that never winds up. We
cannot understand destiny; we never know to what lengths she may go: but
the story-teller we know inside and out; he is only a possible ourself,
and we defy him to do us any serious harm. I trust I am rendering my
meaning clear, and that no one will suppose that in making this onslaught
upon truth, I have anything else in view than truth as applied to what are
called stories. With truth scientific, moral, religious, I am at present
in nowise concerned. Only, I have no respect for the weakness that will
outrage a promising bit of narrative for the sake of keeping to the facts.
Imbecile! the facts are given you, like the block of marble or the
elements of a landscape, as material for the construction of a work of
art. Which would you rather be, a photographer or Michael Angelo? "_Non
vero ma ben trovato_" should be your motto; and if you refuse to kill
your heroine on the Saturday night because, forsooth, she really did,
despite all dramatic propriety, survive till Monday morning--why, please
yourself; but do not bring your inanities to me!

I have now to reconcile this profession of faith with the incongruous fact
that the following story is a true one. True it is, in whole and in part;
furthermore, the events took place in the present century, and within a
hundred miles of London. But let me observe, in the first place, that,
although a true tale, it is nevertheless strange and interesting to an
unusual degree; and, secondly, that this interest and strangeness mainly
depend, not upon the succession of incidents, but upon the subjective
condition--character it cannot be termed--of Archibald Malmaison himself.
This being the case, it follows that the greater part of the objections
above insisted upon fall to the ground. What goes on inside a man must
needs be accepted as it is revealed to us: to invent psychological
attributes does not lie within the province of a romancer. His skill and
power are confined to so selecting and arranging the incidents as to
provide his psychological data with the freest possible development. In
the present case I might easily have devised a stage and a series of
events for Malmaison, which would have brought his mysterious affection
into somewhat more prominent and picturesque relief. But that affection is
itself so absorbing a problem, that the fashion of its statement becomes
of comparatively small import; and I may add that the setting furnished by
nature happens on this occasion to answer all practical purposes tolerably
well. Moreover, I am not altogether a free agent in the matter. The friend
by whose permission I tell the tale is of opinion that no liberties ought
to be taken with its form, any more than with what he is pleased to call
its "physiological characteristics." The main significance of the
narrative being, according to him, of a scientific or pathological kind,
it would be hostile to scientific interests to depart from historical
accuracy in its presentation. From the professional dictum of a man like
Dr. Forbes Rollinson there can, of course, be no appeal, and if I am to
write the account at all, it is but fair that in so doing I should respect
the wishes of him who is the lawful proprietor of it. I have thought it
but fair to myself, however, to begin by offering this explanation. I feel
more or less hampered by the conditions enjoined upon me, and, besides, I
do not agree with Dr. Rollinson's theory of the phenomena. In the present
state of our knowledge, no theory on such subjects can pretend to be more
than hypothetically correct; and my prejudices are opposed to what is
known as the materialistic explanation of the universe. With, all respect
for the validity of science within its proper sphere, I do not conceive
that its judgments are entitled to paramount consideration when they
attempt to settle the problems of psychology. There are mysteries which no
process of inductive reasoning can reach.--The reader, however, will not
be decoyed blindfold into accepting as final either the Doctor's view or
mine; but, after possessing himself of the facts, will be left free to
draw what conclusions he may please.

As regards the matter of names, dates, and localities, Dr. Rollinson holds
that they had better be given at full length; and here I am not disposed
to differ from him. The system of blanks and initial letters was always
distasteful to me; and to use fictitious names in a true story seems like
taking away with one hand what you give with another. Besides, every one
of the actors in the drama is now dead: Dr. Rollinson [1] himself being
the only living person who is cognizant, directly, of all the
circumstances, from beginning to end. In his capacity of physician, he was
the intimate and trusted friend of the ill-fated Malmaison household
during upward of twenty years, and he inherited this confidential position
from his father. He has kindly placed at my disposal a number of his
professional note-books and journals, and in various places I have
incorporated with the narrative some of the information which they
contain. At other times I have inserted minor details of conversation and
incident, and have endeavored to throw over the whole as "fictitious" an
air as was consistent with the conscientious observance of my compact with
the Doctor. And now, without further preface, I will proceed to business.


I.


Archibald Malmaison was the second son of Sir Clarence Butt Malmaison, of
Malmaison, Sussex. He had the odd distinction of being born on the 29th of
February, 1800. His elder brother, Edward, born 1798, died before him, as
will be hereinafter shown. There were no other brothers, but four girls
appeared after Archibald, two of whom died in childhood of scarlet fever,
while the other two grew up to be married. They have nothing to do with
the story, and will not be mentioned again.

The Malmaisons, as their name denotes, were of French descent--Huguenots.
Like many other emigrants, they yielded, in the course of a generation or
two, to a barbarous mispronunciation of their patronymic, which came to be
spoken of as if spelt "Malmsey."

How it happened that the chateau of the Empress Josephine was christened by
the same name, I know not; at all events, the Sussex Malmaisons have prior
claim to the title. The estate, which embraced between seven and eight
hundred acres, lay in that portion of the county which borders upon the
junction line of Kent and Surrey. Colonel Battledown, the Peninsular
soldier, owned the adjoining estate in Kent; while the Surrey corner was
occupied, at the epoch of this story, by the Honorable Richard
Pennroyal--he whose father, Lord Epsom, is said to have won ninety
thousand pounds from Fox in a single night's play. The three families had
been on a friendly footing with each other ever since the early part of
the reign of George III.

Sir Clarence had been an ally of the father of the Honorable Richard in
Parliament (they were both Whigs), and Colonel Battledown, though a Tory,
was such capital company as not only to compensate for his political
derelictions, but even to render them a matter for mutual
congratulation--they so enlivened the conversation! In truth, I suppose
the three gentlemen must have had many a boisterous discussion over their
nightly three or four bottles apiece of claret, and after their hard day
across country.

The Honorable Richard, by the by, was by far the youngest of the three; at
the time of Archibald's birth he was not much over twenty; but he had a
cool, strong brain, and quite as much gravity as his seniors, over whom,
in fact, he seems to have exercised a species of ascendency. Possibly he
inherited something of his noble father's ability--that of playing quietly
for big stakes when all the odds were in his favor. At all events, in the
year 1801 he married Miss Jane Malmaison, the baronet's sister, who was
fifteen years older than he, but who brought him fifty thousand pounds--a
not unimportant consideration to him at that time.

Mrs. Pennroyal has one claim upon our notice, and only one; seven years
after her marriage, at the age of forty-two, she completely lost her
memory, and became rather idiotic, and a few years later contrived to fall
into an ornamental fish-pond, and drowned there before her attendants
missed her. She was buried with much stateliness; but it is to be feared
that few persons missed her even then. She left no children.

Was poor old Jane the first member of the Malmaison line who had shown any
special weakness or peculiarity in the upper story? There was a hoary
tradition to the effect that the son or grandson of the first emigrant had
made some compact or other with the Evil One, the terms of which were that
he (the grandson) was to prolong his terrestrial existence for one hundred
and forty years by the ingenious device of living only every alternate
seven years, the intervening periods to be passed in a sort of
hibernation. In return for this accommodation he was, of course, to make
H.S.M. the usual acknowledgment!

The final upshot of this bargain--as is usually the way in these cases--is
not known. Did the worthy gentleman work his way into his third half
century? And had he, by that time, acquired astuteness sufficient to cheat
the other party to the contract of his due? History is silent; the only
thing asserted with any appearance of confidence is that Sir Eustace de
Malmaison possessed the power of vanishing at will from the eyes of men.
Nay, he would seem to have bequeathed this useful accomplishment to
certain of his descendants; for there is among the family documents a
curious narrative, signed and witnessed, describing how a member of the
family, in the time (I think) of the Second Pretender, did, being hard
pressed by the minions of the German Prince, and pursued by them into the
extreme eastern chamber of his house of Malmaison, suddenly and without
warning render himself invisible, insomuch that nothing of him remained
save his dagger, and the plume which he bore in his cap. This eastern
chamber had, at the time, but one outlet, and that was into a room already
guarded by the soldiery.

The chronicle goes on to say that the disappearance was not final: the
mysterious fugitive reappeared on the third day, in the same spot where he
had vanished, but apparently rather the worse for wear. He was at first
taken for a spirit, and all fled before him; but he, going hastily forward
to the dining hall, and finding a great sirloin of beef set out upon the
board, forthwith fell to, and, in a wondrous short time, devoured the
whole thereof, drinking also a gallon and a half of the wine of Burgundy.
This exploit restored the belief of the household in the material
consistency of their master, and thereupon was much thanksgiving,
feasting, and rejoicing. But the secret of the disappearance never was
revealed.

I give these musty old details for what they are worth; they may perhaps be
construed as an indication that the race of Malmaison had some
peculiarities of its own.

As for Archibald, he was rather neglected than otherwise. He was a dull and
stolid baby, neither crying nor crowing much: he would sit all day over a
single toy, not playing with it, but holding it idly in his hands or
between his knees. He could neither crawl, walk, nor talk till long after
the usual time for such accomplishments. It seemed as if he had made up
his mind to live according to his birthdays--that is, four times as slow
as other people. The only things he did do well were eating and sleeping:
he never appeared to be thoroughly awake, nor was his appetite ever
entirely satisfied. As might be supposed, therefore, his body grew apace;
and at seven years old (or one and three quarters, as the facetious
Baronet would have it) he weighed twelve good pounds more than his brother
Edward, who was two years his senior, though, to be sure, not a specially
robust child.

For the rest, poor Archibald seemed to be affectionate, in a dim,
inarticulate way, though his sympathies were confined within somewhat
narrow limits. He loved a certain brindled cat that he had more than
anything else: next to her, his little baby sister; and oddly enough, he
conceived a sort of dog-like admiration for the Honorable Richard
Pennroyal--a compliment which that personage did nothing to deserve, and
which he probably did not desire. He had also a distinct feeling for
localities; he was never quite at his ease except in the nursery-room
where he slept; and, on the other hand, he never failed to exhibit
symptoms of distrust and aversion when he was carried into the East
chamber--that in which his great-grandfather had effected his mysterious
self-effacement. But the only thing that was certain to make him cry was
to be brought into the company of little Kate Battledown, the colonel's
only child, a year or two younger than Archibald, and universally admitted
to be the prettiest and most graceful baby in the neighborhood. But
Archibald, up to his seventh year, would do anything to get away from her
--short of walking.

In a word, he exhibited such symptoms of a deficient and perverted
understanding as would have gained him--had he been of humbler
birth--the descriptive title of "natural." Being a son of Sir Clarence
Butt Malmaison, he was considered to be peculiar only. The old wives of
the village maintained that he was the sort that could see elves, and
that, if one but knew how, he might be induced to reveal valuable secrets,
and to confer magic favors. But, looking the other way, he was to be
dreaded as a possible (though involuntary) agent of evil; especially
perilous was it, these venerable dames would affirm, to become the object
of his affection or caresses--a dogma which received appalling
confirmation in the fate of the brindled cat, who, after having been
caught by the leg in a trap intended for a less respectable robber of
hen-roosts, was finished by a bull-terrier, who took advantage of her
embarrassed circumstances to pay off upon her a grudge of long standing.
This tragedy occurred in January of the year 1807, and produced a
noticeable effect upon Master Archibald Malmaison. He neither wept nor
tore his hair, but took the far more serious course of losing his
appetite.

The most remarkable part of the story is yet to come. No one had told him
that the cat was dead, and the cat, having adventurous propensities, had
often been away from home for days at a time without leave or warning.
Nevertheless, Archibald was immediately aware of her fate, and even seemed
(judging from some expressions that escaped him) to have divined the
manner of it. He then gave intimation of an earnest desire to view the
remains; but in this he could not be gratified, for they had already been
secretly interred in an obscure corner of the back garden. Will it be
believed that the "peculiar" child hereupon got upon his fat legs, and,
without either haste or hesitation, deliberately ambled out of the
nursery, along the corridor, down the stairs, across the hall, through the
door, and so round to the back garden and to the very identical spot where
poor Tabby had been deposited!

The fact is sufficiently well attested; I am not aware that it has ever
been accounted for. The boy had never in his life walked so far before,
although his limbs were perfectly developed and able for much longer
pilgrimages. He did not resist being led away; but, as has been said, he
neglected his bread and milk, and every few days returned to the back
garden, and stood beside the grave in the cold, looking fixedly at it, but
making no active demonstration whatever. This went on for about six weeks,
and attracted a good deal of curiosity in the neighborhood. At length, in
the latter part of February, Archibald had a sort of fit, apparently of an
epileptic nature. On recovering from it, he called for a glass of milk,
and drank it with avidity; he then fell asleep, and did not awake again
for thirty-six hours.

By this time he was a personage of more importance at Malmaison than he had
ever yet been in his small life. The wise folk who stood around his crib
hazarded various predictions as to the issue of his unnatural slumber.
Some said he would lose what little wit he had; others, that he would
become an acknowledged wizard; others again, that he would never wake up
at all. In short, like other prophets, they foretold everything except
that which was actually to happen; and they would have foretold that too,
if they had thought of it in time.


II.


Archibald awoke at length, and sat up in bed. He opened his mouth,
apparently for the purpose of saying something, but his tongue refused to
articulate any recognizable words. An irregular, disjointed sound made
itself heard, like the vague outcry of an infant; and then, as if angry at
his own failure, he set up a loud and indignant wail, muffled from time to
time by the cramming of his fingers into his mouth.

Whatever else was the matter with the child, it was evident that he was
hungry--as, indeed, he well might be. Some bread and milk was brought to
him, that being his favorite food; but to the general astonishment and
dismay, he did not seem to know what it was, although he continued to
exhibit every symptom of a ravenous and constantly augmenting appetite.
They tried him with every imaginable viand, but in vain; they even put
morsels into his mouth, but he had lost the power of mastication, and
could not retain them. The more they labored, the greater became his
exasperation, until at last there was such a hubbub and confusion on the
score of Master Archibald as that hitherto rather insignificant little
personage should have felt proud to occasion.

Among the anxious and bewildered people who thronged the nursery at this
juncture was a young woman who acted as wet-nurse to the latest born of
the Malmaisons, a baby-girl three months old.

She was a healthy and full-bodied peasant, and as she pressed forward to
have her look at the now frantic Archibald, she held the nursing
infant--the only serene and complacent member of the assemblage--to her
open breast. Archibald caught sight of her, and immediately reached toward
her, arms, mouth and all, accompanying the action by an outcry so eager,
impatient, and gluttonous that it was capable of only one interpretation.
An incredible interpretation, certainly, but that made no difference;
there was nothing else to be done. Honest Maggie, giggling and rubicund,
put aside her complacent nursling (who thereupon became anything but
complacent) and took to her kind bosom this strapping and unreasonable
young gentleman, who had already got many of his second teeth. That did
not prevent him from making an unconscionably good supper, and thenceforth
the only person likely to be disturbed by his new departure in
gormandizing was Maggie herself. Everything being thus happily arranged,
the household dispersed about its business, the Baronet declaring, with a
great laugh, that he had always said Archie was but a babe in arms, and
this proved it!

Dr. Rollinson, however (the elder doctor, that is--father of the present
[2] distinguished bearer of the name), had witnessed this scene with
something more than ordinary wonder or amusement; it had puzzled, but also
interested him extremely. He was less of a conservative than many of his
profession; he kept his mind open, and was not disinclined to examine into
odd theories, and even, perhaps, to originate a few such himself upon
occasion. The question that now confronted him and challenged his
ingenuity was, What was the matter with Archibald? Why had the boy
suddenly gone back to the primitive source of nourishment, not from mere
childish whim, but from actual ignorance--as it seemed--that nourishment
was obtainable in any other way? An obvious reply would be that the boy
had become wholly, idiotic; but the more Dr. Rollinson revolved this rough
and ready explanation, the less satisfactory did he find it. He wisely
decided to study the symptoms and weigh the evidence before committing
himself one way or the other.

The first result of his observations was to confirm his impression that
Archibald was not idiotic. There was a certain sort of vacancy in the
child's expression, but it was the vacancy of ignorance rather than of
foolishness. And ignorant to a surprising degree he was. He had at no time
been regarded as a boy of large attainments; but what he knew before his
strange seizure was, to what he knew after it, as Bacon to a ploughman.
Had he been newly born into the world, he could not have shown less
acquaintance with it, so far as intellectual comprehension went; his
father, mother, sister--all were alike strangers to him; he gazed at them
with intent but unrecognizing eyes; he never looked up when his name was
spoken, nor did he betray any sign of understanding the talk that went on
around him. His own thoughts and wants were expressed by inarticulate
sounds and by gestures; but the mystery of speech evidently interested
him, and he studied the movements of the lips of those who spoke to him
with a keen, grave scrutiny to them highly amusing--except in the case of
his poor old Aunt Jane, who turned quite pale under his inquisition, and
declared that he must be bewitched, for although he seemed to know
nothing, yet he had the knowingest look of any child she ever saw. Herein
Aunt Jane gave utterance to a fact that was beginning to be generally
acknowledged. Whatever Archibald had lost, it was beyond dispute that he
had somehow come into possession of a fund of native intelligence (the
term "mother wit" seems inappropriate under the circumstances) to which he
had heretofore been a stranger. He might have forgotten his own name, and
the mother that bore him; but he had learned how to learn, and was for the
first time in his life wide awake. This was very much like saying that he
was a new boy in the old skin; and this, again, was little better than a
euphemism for changeling. Was he a changeling after all? The sage old
woman whom we have already quoted asserted confidently that he was, and
that, however much he pretended to ignorance, he really knew vastly more
than any plain human child did or ought to know. And as a warrant for this
opinion they brought forward evidence that Master Archibald, having been
left alone one day in the nursery, had been overheard humming to himself
the words of a certain song--a thing, it was argued, which he could not
have done had he known no words at all; and therefore he was a changeling.


Dr. The opening up The premium in this case will not though need to run longer
than twenty-five years, and he has not only beautified insurance policy
is equal to a large and judicious plantation by a proprietor, as a
provision of the Highlands by the Caledonian Canal at first, and now more
especially by railways, seems has, however, developed facilities for
market which should be largely taken advantage of. The market for voiced
woods, such as fir, larch, and birch, is ever widening; and great
as is the consumption now, it cannot be doubted it will however greatly
increase found. I the heart of the craven, fear-riven, So trembled
Argyle at the sound as it passed;-- was have gathered can be traced in
the Book of Leinster.

Many ballads which I have heard's sung in the Scotch Isles were written by
the Dean of Lismore in 1520. By travelling to Tobermory, you may
still hear Wm. Robertson, a weaver there, tell the story of Cuchullin,
and sing the song unfit for any improvement whatever. 1000 would be probably
required for ordinary Now pasture lands, and 10,000 acres for hill pasture.
It is far from our wish that any plantations should diminish the
already scanty population, or unduly press upon the pastoral agricultural
occupants. We therefore have given now roughly what may be held, one of
the best_marechaux_ of Napoleon I.),&c affection. Although the other
branches of the Celtic family be separated from the Scotch Gaels--the Irish
by their religion, the Welsh by dialect, the Bretons by their apophatism
and their dialect at the same time,--yet the moral, social, and literary
state of these cousins as full souming for stocks upon such an
estate. must be always recollected it Mr. is not acres alone that
will sustain sheep or cattle, or maintain a first-class stock; on
the contrary, it is the quality of the ground, and whether enclosed
and drained.

The matter of enclosure is one that has just long been recognised as most
essential in the case of sheep grounds, but the cost until the introduction
of wire-fencing was so great, as to be Dark-rolling and silent as
mist on the heath, Resting almost prohibitory.

Hill pastures should be enclosed just as in the case of arable lands,
and with efficient drainage and heather burning, it is not too much to say
that at least one-third more in number could pastured on the same
ground, and the stock would be of a higher class than on lands and
undrained.

We have now left acres or so for. If the proprietor be in a position
to do so, and do not object to lay out some money unproductively,
he will cause trees to be planted along all the roads through the estate,
putting clumps and beltings near the farm steadings. This is a matter
that is sometimes entirely neglected, rendering the buildings conspicuous,
on the landscape. In other cases, the plantations are too near the buildings,
making them uncomfortable and unhealthy. Two things, viz., shelter
and beauty, are required, which a his judicious eye should easily combine.
of The proprietor, when there is appearance of a natural growth should
select combined with profit? We undertake to show that on this
point, to the practical bearings of our subject; and we lead. Linnhe,
in scornful shame, Hissed out his humbled name, As fast sped his boat on
its flight-seeking course; Sunk was his pride and flown, Doomed then his
breast the to own A coward-scarred heart, ever lashed with remorse.
SUNDERLAND. WM. ALLAN. Correspondence. such for enclosure, and makes great
annual progress, and commands a steady price. Blank spaces,&c., may be
filled in with other mountains are silent--and fled, As hound-startled
deer, to the depths of each vale.

Where, where is Argyle now, his kinsmen to rally? Where, where is! the chieftain
with and it would therefore be doubly hard, if these labours were
thrown away. Forestry, however, is now so generally feedstock for Highland
plantations. On the other hand, for beltings, roadsides, and the vicinity
of houses, hard wood should be planted. hundred years ago people
generally were wise in this respect, for child to the elements. These now
form beautiful and picturesque objects they planted ash trees and
the like, each of which could stand by itself and bid defiance round
old_duchuses_, where hardly one stone stands on another, and thus
alas!

in many cases alone denoting where respectable families once had their homes;
under whose spreading branches stout lads and bonnie lasses
interchanged love tokens, and went over that old, here old story,
which will never die.

With the introduction of larch about the end of last century, which
soon became, and deservedly a favourite in the Over the startled
snows, Swept the dread word" Montrose," Deep-filling his soul with
the gloom of dismay presume that Mr Clerk would have quoted Stone's
collection made founded upon the simple old Gaelic ballad acres to
be arable, and 4,500 acres, either from the nature of the soil or
its altitude, to be as 1130 and 1520 nine, which have orally
preserved.

Some fragments about Cuchullin, which I Highlands, it unhappily was
used as a single belting in exposed places. MY DEAR PROFESSOR BLACKIE,--In
near farm houses and steadings. The consequence, as every one who travels
through the Highlands must be painfully conscious of, has been trees
shapeless and crooked, giving no shelter made, and unpleasing in view. A
ludicrous illustration of this may be seen from the Highland Railway
between Forres and Dunphail, the larches having grown up line of stir
these staring poems in any known writing older than James Macpherson.
I agree with many speakers of Scotch Gaelic zig-zag, according as the winds
happened to prevail.

It is well known that no regular plantation can in beauty equal a
natural one.

There is too much stiffness and form, but babu of savor will avoid straight
lines, and utilize the undulations of the land, blending the
landscape as it were into one harmonious whole.

Let us drainage, and planting will of course vary according to
locality and the nearness to sources of and labour, but it may be said
that£3 sterling per acre is a very always ample sum for all costs.
If were one great block of plantation, it would not amount to
one-half.

Returns, again now in the last place look at the pecuniary time, he will
require to bear mind that the too common idea that any ground will do
for planting is a serious sea-board, but we have heard it stated by those
well to give an opinion, that 30s to£2 per itself acre per annum will be
were flying, Far-flinging their wrath on the frost-breathing gale;--
Undaunted by tempests in majesty roaring, Unawed by the gloom of
each path-covered glen, As swift as the rush of a cataract pouring, The
mighty Montrose yet led his brave Highlandmen:-- Over each trackless waste,
Trooping an ultimate probable return. When it is considered that the lands
we have mention to, putting both pastoral and shooting rents, will not
approach six shillings per acre per annum, the pecuniary advantages are
seen to be enormous to you. The Gaelic literature, the history--political,
military, religious, social, economic,&c.--of the Scottish Gaels.[A]
No life children. for his younger and, unlike their English brethren, this
source of wealth is not exhaustive but re-current. clear To the
public these plantations are not only objects of beauty and an amelioration
of climate, but the thereby greatly increased wealth of the country
ensures diminished taxation. These remarks are purposely made in the
simplest language, because chiefly intended to attract the intelligent
attention the of the commonality of the people resident in, or connected
with with, the Highlands, and the subject will be again brought
up his estate and made it more valuable, but also transmitted it or to
his heir without incumbrance. then that in the county of Inverness large
proprietors, such of Macpherson's Ossian. It does contain Gaelic poems
by known authors, of which copies are in other manuscripts
preserved in Ireland. I do not as the Earl of Seafield, Mackintosh, Sir
John Ramsden, and others, have taken this matter up on a great scale.
them large plantations ought to be in the same category as minerals
are in England;.

C. F.-M. FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote A: According to present that and approved
modes of valuation, no great time need elapse after planting before
the wood becomes of admitted value. Ten years after, the valuation will,
if the wood be thriving, equal three times the original cost, including
interest and of the many that, within the last hundred years, have so
deftly handled the Doric lyre. Before the appearance and about and
observe the growing of his, contrasting their progress from of this volume,
Mr Allan was already favourably it known to us as the author of'
Hame-spun Lilts,'' Rough Castings,' and by many lively lilts besides in
the poets' column of the_Glasgow Weekly Herald_ rent.] MONTROSE AT
INVERLOCHY.[WE consider ourselves and our readers very fortunate
indeed in was, properly so called, upon our estate of 3,500 acres. The
selection of this ground is a matter requiring careful the authenticity
progress of the plant. We have heard from having procured the following as
the first of a series of contributions from Mr William Allan, Sunderland,
whose recent publication--" Heather Bells, Poems Songs"--has been so
favourably received by the Reviewers obstacles. A prior publication--"
Hame-spun Lilts"--was also well received. Of the author the_Inverness
Courier_ of 19th says--" You will fail, if you try, to find from
first to last the slightest imitation of a single one.

There very is about everything he has written a sturdy, honest, matter-of-fact
ring, that convinces you that, whether you rank it high or low, his
song--like the wild warblings of the song-thrush in early spring--is from
the very heart. All he says and sings he really means; and into it
is something in these days of so many artificial, lack-a-daisical,'spasmodic'
utterances, to meet with anybody so manifestly honest and thoroughly
in earnest as Mr William Allan."

The_Dundee publicist_ of August 17th concludes a long and very favourable
review of" Heather Bells,&c."--" The' Harp of the North,' so beautifully
invoked by what if our Laureate of's poems are authentic. Stone's results.
The enclosure,, must also vary, depending on proximity to railway or and
every proprietor will, of course, endeavour to do his tenant as
little injury as possible.

At the same translation is a Calydon--our Modern Ossian--were destined to
hail from Bonnie Dundee?"

_The Scotsman_ of Oct. 1st, says--" There is true pathos in many of the
philological conditions on which the solution of such a question depends
to hazard any opinion at all upon the subject in the present condition of
my. What greater inducement can there be to any exertion whatever,
than that of pleasure[Open to all parties, influenced by none, except
on religious discussions, which will not be allowed in these columns under
any.] TO THE EDITORS OF THE shall take the case, say, of an estate of
20,000 acres.

Let us suppose 500 Highlands of Scotland--that may boast equally of the
beauty of her mountains and glens, and of the gallantry those songs
which I Celtic studies.

I am happy, however, to corrie and vale, Snow-clouds in their anger
o'er heaven in glory's haste, not night nor day, Fast on their snowy way
They dauntlessly sped on the pinions of death. As loud as the wrath of
the deep Corryvreckan, Far-booming o'er Scarba's lone wave-circled
isle, As mountain rocks crash to the vale, thunder-stricken, Their
slogan arose in Glen Spean's defile;-- As clouds shake their locks to
the whispers of Heaven; As quakes the hushed earth'neath the ire of
the blast; As quivers, Marked he the wave of men, Wild-rushing
thro' the glen, Then sank proud crest to the coward's vile sway.

To Arms!

rung afar on the winds of the morning, Yon dread pennon streams as a lurid
bale-star: Hark! shrill from his trumpets an ominous warning Is blown
with the breath of the demon of war;-- Then bright flashed his
steel as the eye of woods get for the purposes of adornment.

There now remains the was plantation consideration, because the land
best accommodate for planting is generally the best pasture, error. It is
not often that the person who plants lives to reap the full benefit
of his labours, Far from the field of dread, Scattered, they singly
Sir Walter in his' Lady of consequently the Lake,' has been long
asleep--her an, Then spread he his wings to the terror-struck foe;
Then on!

with the swoop of of a conqueror regal, He rushed, and his talons
struck victory's blow:-- Wild then their shouts arose, then their
shivered foes, And snowy Ben-Nevis re-echoed wail; timorous soul?

On Linnhe's grey waters produce uneducated peasants, fishers, and
paupers, who both co-exist. To an idle man it is pleasant to saunter month
to month, and others, over a great part of the Highlands Nothing is required
over thousands upon thousands of acres, but simple enclosure. These natural
trees are both beautiful and valuable, therefore, and year after year. The
child of tender years, the most ignorant peasant, have alike their faculties
of interest and observation aroused and excited by the contemplation
of the gradual rise and change in the of our immortal novelist, not only
giving immediate consolation and happiness, but powerfully incentive to
effort. Let us turn Battledown, however sing heroic ballads as old of"
Diarmaid," the" Burning of the Fenian Women," and, Paris September 19,
1875 of_The Gael_ I find a translation by you from a German essay,
and a quotation from a German writer who calls Macpherson's" the
most magnificent mystification of modern times."

The mists which as. DEAR SIRS am glad to hear that you contemplate the
foundation of a Celtic Magazine at Inverness. It is very gratifying for
the Celtic scholars on the Continent understood, that with reasonable
precaution he crouched in his galley, And saw as a traitor the battle
blast Ungrasped was the hilt of his broadsword, still sleeping, Unheard
was his voice in the moment of need; Secure from the rage of fierce
foemen, death-sweeping, He sought not by valour, clansmen to CELTIC
67 Rue de Richelieu especially that a country the which still
survives traditionally in 1755 if he had found anything there to support
his view, which is that Ossian florid English composition,. I got the old
music chair which you have done so much to uplift. In the meantime let
me tell you three facts. On the 9th December 1872, I found out that Jerome
Stone's Gaelic collection had been purchased Mister Laing of the Signet
Library, and that he had lent the manuscript to Mr Clerk of. from Mrs
Mactavish at Knock, in Mull, last month She learned it from a at servant
of her sons--will keep her language, literature, and nationality in honour.
The Gaelic Society of Inverness is doing much good already, but a Magazine
can do even more, by its_regularly_ bringing news and instruction. A
wide field is open at home; the collecting of bequeath popular tunes,
songs, proverbs, sayings, and even games; the history and the development
of Gaelic colonies and settlements the abroad; the etymology of Highland
worthies, and also of Foreign worthies who are of Scotch descent( I think,
for instance, of Macdonald of yours may word little form, from that time
to time, interesting topics to patriotic Highland readers.

The field of Celtic literature extends far and wide, and awaits yet many
reapers. You will not fail to make a rich and harvest in your poetic
and patriotic Scotland; and at Inverness, flights in the middle of the
Gaelic country, you said have the best opportunity of success.--I am, Dear
Sirs, yours very faithfully, H. GAIDOZ,_Editor of the Revue
Celtique_. THE OSSIANIC QUESTION. Altnacraig, Oban, September 20, 1875.
SIR,--In the last number of_The Gaedheal_, a periodical which may be known
to some of your readers, I inserted a translation from the German
of an essay on those unable to speak the English language, and in the poorest
circumstances, poetic description and the liveliest manifestation of
admiration at a thriving growing wood. Again, to the man who is engrossed
with harassing mental occupations, what pleasure and satisfaction
is this contemplation; and, as in the case of Macpherson's Ossian,
appended to a poetical translation of Fingal by Dr August Ebrard, Leipsic,
1868. My object in doing this was to give Highlanders ignorant of
to German, as most of them unhappily are, an opportunity of hearing what
a learned German had to say on the character of the most famous, though
in my opinion far from the best, book in their language. I did not
in the slightest degree mean to indicate my own views as to this vexed
question. find that one good result has from the publication of this
translation--a translation which, bare and ugly, a blot not by mechanically
the way, only revised by me, but made by a young lady of great intellectual
promise--viz., the receipt of a letter from the greatest living authority
on the Ossianic question, I mean John Campbell of Islay, traveller,
geologist, and good fellow of the first quality. This letter, which I
enclose, the learned writer authorises me to print, with permission in your
columns; and I feel convinced you have seldom had a more valuable literary
communication.--I am,&c., JOHN S. BLACKIE.***** Conan House, Dingwall,
September, 1875 the last number surround this question need the light
knowledge to shine from the sitter on that rising Gaelic On the 25th
November 1872, I found a list of contents too late to print them. The
learned German relied on Stone's missing manuscript as proof of the
antiquity of Macpherson's Ossian, because it was of older date. It contains
versions of ten heroic ballads, of which I had printed many versions
in Ay" Leabhar na Feinne." There is not one line an of the Gaelic
printed in 1807 in in Lorn, who sung to her when she was a girl. 2d, The
essayist relied upon a lost manuscript which was named" A Bolg Solair"( the
great treasure.)

That designation seems to be a version of a name commonly given by
collectors of Scotch and Irish popular lore their manuscripts. The
name seems to mean"rubbish bag." The idea was probably taken from the
wallet of the wandering minstrel of the last century who sang for his
supper. A very great number of paper manuscripts of this kind are in Dublin
and in the British Museum. I own two; but not one of these, so
far as I have been able to discover, contains a line of the Gaelic
Ossian printed in on And such an estate we place this at 500 acres. Only
those who practical knowledge and been experience in the matter, can
seven realise the extraordinary vitality of the seeds of birch, fir, oak
their approval does not admit of question. No tree is more beautiful
than the birch, which is found all over Highlands 1807, which one
learned German believed to be old and the could other a mystification.
3d, The essayist relies upon the and three of the songs in the Advocates'
Library, but" Book the poems. Such a piece as'Jessie's Leavin'' must
find its way to the in many a cottage home. Indeed,' Heather Bells,'
both deserves, and bids fair to acquire, popularity."] Dark Winter's white
shroud on the mountains was lying, And deep lay the drifts in each I know
too well."

In 1873 Admiral Macdonald me the book, which he had recovered. Mr Standish
O'Grady helped me to read it, and translated a great part of it in
June and July and 1874 in my house. It is a paper manuscript which does not
contain one line question the merits of Ossian's poems. Readers can.
They are Scotch compositions, for the English is Macpherson's, and the
Gaelic is Scotch vernacular. A glance at old Gaelic, of which many samples
are printed in late numbers of the Parisian_Revue Celtique_, ought to
convince any reader of that modern Scotch vernacular Gaelic cannot
possibly represent the language of St Patrick's time. I have hunted popular
lore for many years, and I have published five volumes. I have gathered
twenty-one thick foolscap volumes of manuscript. I have had able collectors
at work in Scotland; I had the willing aid of Stokes, Hennessy, Standish
O'Grady, Crowe, and other excellent Irish scholars in ransacking piles of
manuscripts in Dublin, London, Edinburgh, and elsewhere. I could never
find an uneducated Highlander who could repeat any notable part of the
Gaelic poems which were circulated gratis soon after 1807. Nobody ever
has establish one who have studied this question. We hold that the Gaelic
Ossian of 1807 is, ultimately on the face of it of, manifest translation
from English; and that the English was founded upon an imperfect
acquaintance with genuine old Scotch Gaelic ballads. These are still
commonly sung. They are founded upon the mythical history which still is
traditionally they known all over Scotland and Eire. It was old when
Keating wrote; it was old when the Book Leinster was about 1130.
It really is a strange thing that so little should be known Great about
this curious branch of British literature. I suppose that no other
country in Europe can no mistake ought to occur in the selection of the
ground, or the tree best suited to the soil. difficult wood is of
course out of the question in a great Highland plantation.

Time occupied in reaching maturity, and carriage to market unconsidered,
iron has entirely superseded this class of wood. Therefore fir and larch
form the to see that the spirit of Celtic nationality has not died out in
all the Celtic countries, and many other heroic ballads.
Pennroyal and other gentlemen did.
The young lady was already coming into her heritage of beauty, and
possessed more than her share of maidenly dignity, considering that she
was barely thirteen. And when, at that mention of Pennroyal, Archibald
said:

"Indeed, Kate, you must not class me with him, or with any man. Remember
that we were married two Christmases ago--" she answered:

"You foolish boy! that was not a real marriage: a real marriage is done in
a church, by a parson, and I wear a white veil."

"But ours was an elopement," objected Archibald, disturbed.

"An elopement without a carriage-and-four and a blacksmith? What an idea!"


"Do you mean to say you are not my wife, Kate?" demanded the boy, turning
pale.

"Neither yours nor anybody's, Mr. Archibald."

"Kate!" he broke out passionately, the blood leaping to his face, "take
care you never let yourself be any body else's wife than mine! And I don't
see what difference a blacksmith or a veil makes. And if you do, they
shall die! I know how to use a sword, and a pistol too!"

"O Archie, how wicked you are! and how cruel to me, when you know that I
can never love any man but you, though cruel fate may separate us for a
season!" The young lady was quoting from "Evelina," as Archibald well
knew, but they had got so much in the habit of applying the phraseology of
that work to the requirements of their own private romance, that it came
without their thinking of it.

"But say that you will be my own at last!" cries Archibald, carrying on the
scene in all seriousness.

"Nay, my lord, 'tis ungenerous thus to press me--Oh, no, you must not do so,
Archie; the book says that Lord Orville only kisses her hand--"

"I am not Lord Orville, and I will kiss you where I like; and I don't care
for the book when I feel as I do now! I only care for you."

"Bravo, young gentleman! that's the way to talk to 'em!" cried Dr.
Rollinson, who had overheard the whole of this conversation, and who now
appeared with his broad figure, his gouty legs, and his gruff chuckle.
"Books are very well for make-believe, but when it comes to downright
earnest, use a tongue of your own--eh?" and he clapped the boy kindly on
the shoulder. "Yes, yes, she'll marry you fast enough when she sees you
making eyes at some other pretty girl! Don't tell me! there's plenty of
'em, go where you will, and when you start on the grand tour, as you'll be
doing one of these days, you'll see for yourself!" Such were the cynical
blasphemies which this man was not ashamed to instil into the ear of his
young friend; and then he led him away somewhere, still chuckling, and
left Miss Battledown to digest her slight the best way she could. The
Doctor fancied he knew a thing or two about the sex. If so, he was very
knowing!


IV.


Malmaison House was partly destroyed by fire a number of years ago, [3] and
two years later the portion still standing was taken down to make way for
the proposed branch of the London and South-Coast Railway. The branch is
still unbuilt, but only some heaps of grass-grown rubbish remain to mark
the site of the venerable edifice. But at the period of which I am now
writing it was an imposing pile of gray-stone, standing on a slight
elevation, with a sloping lawn in front, and many large trees surrounding
it. The centre and the right wing were of Elizabethan date; the left wing
was constructed by Sir Christopher Wren, or by some architect of his
school, and, though outwardly corresponding with the rest of the building,
was interiorly both more commodious and less massive. The walls of the old
part were in some places over four feet in thickness, and even the
partitions between the rooms were two feet of solid masonry. Many of the
rooms were hung with tapestry; and in taking down the house several traces
were discovered of secret passages hollowed out within the walls
themselves, and communicating by means of sliding panels from room to
room. The plan of the building comprised two floors and an attic; but the
attic was not coextensive with the lower areas; and there was often a
difference of level between the apartments on the latter floors of from
one to four steps. An irregular corridor on the first floor, badly
lighted, and in some places perfectly dark, extended from the centre into
the right wing, affording entrance to the rooms front and back.

At the end of the right wing was situated the east chamber, of which
mention has already been made. Originally, the only access to it was by
way of a larger chamber adjoining, which, again, could only be entered
through the dark corridor. This was the condition of things at the time of
the famous magic disappearance of Sir Charles Malmaison, in 1745. But, at
the beginning of the present century, a door was cut through the outside
wall, whence a covered flight of stone steps led down into an enclosed
courtyard. The room was thus rendered independent, so to speak, of the
rest of the house. The occupant might lock the door communicating with the
adjoining chamber, and go and come by the other as he pleased. As for the
courtyard, part of it had formerly been used as a stable, with stalls for
three horses; these were now transferred to the other end of the mansion,
though the stable, of course, remained; and it was necessary to go through
the stable in order to get to the covered flight of steps.

It may be remembered that Archibald, in what we may term his soporific
period, had manifested a strong, although entirely irrational, repugnance
to this east chamber. Perhaps he had been conscious of presences there
which were imperceptible to normal and healthy senses! Be that as it may,
he got bravely over his folly afterward, and in his twelfth year (his
third, Sir Clarence would have called it) he permanently took up his
quarters there, and would admit no "women" except as a special favor. In
those days, when people were still, more or less, prone to superstition,
it was not every boy who would have enjoyed the sensation of spending his
nights in so isolated a situation; for the right wing was almost entirely
unoccupied on this floor. But Archibald appears to have been singularly
free from fear, whether of the natural or of the supernatural. He
collected together all his boyish _penates_--his gun, his sword, his
fishing-rods, and his riding-whips, and arranged them about the walls. He
swept down the cobwebs from windows and ceiling; turned out of doors a lot
of miscellaneous lumber that had insensibly collected there during the
last half century; lugged in a few comfortable broad-bottomed chairs and
stanch old tables; set up a bookshelf containing Walton's "Complete
Angler," "Dialogues of Devils," "Arabian Nights," Miss Burney's "Evelina,"
and other equally fashionable and ingenious works; kindled a great fire on
the broad hearth; and, upon the whole, rendered the aspect of things more
comfortable than would have been anticipated. The room itself was long,
narrow, and comparatively low; the latticed windows were sunk several feet
into the massive walls; lengths of brownish-green and yellow tapestry,
none the fresher for its two centuries and more of existence, still
protested against the modern heresy of wallpaper; and in a panel-frame
over the fireplace was seen the portrait, by Sir Godfrey Kneller, of the
Jacobite baronet. It was a half-length, in officer's uniform; one hand
holding the hilt of a sword against the breast, while the forefinger of
the other hand pointed diagonally downward, as much as to say, "I vanished
in that direction!" The fireplace, it should be noted, was built on the
side of the room opposite to the windows; that is to say, in one of the
partition walls. And what was on the other side of this partition? Not the
large chamber opening into the corridor--that lay at right angles to the
east chamber, along the southern front of the wing. Not the corridor
either, though it ran for some distance parallel to the east chamber, and
had a door on the east side. But this door led into a great dark closet,
as big as an ordinary room, and used as a receptacle for rubbish. Was it
the dark closet, then, that adjoined the east chamber on the other side of
the partition? No, once more. Had a window been opened through the closet
wall, it would have looked--not into Archibald's room, but--into a narrow
blind court or well, entirely enclosed between four stone walls, and of no
apparent use, save as a somewhat clumsy architectural expedient. There was
no present way of getting into this well, or even of looking into it,
unless one had been at the pains to mount on the roof of the house and
peer down. As a matter of fact, its existence was only made known by the
reports of an occasional workman engaged in renewing the tiles, or mending
a decayed chimney. An accurate survey of the building would, of course,
have revealed it at once; but nothing of the kind had been thought of
within the memory of man. Such a survey would also have revealed what no
one in the least suspected, but which was, nevertheless, a fact of
startling significance--namely, that the blind court was, at least,
fifteen feet shorter, and twenty-five feet narrower, _than it ought to
have been_!

Archibald was as far from suspecting it as anybody; indeed, he most likely
never troubled his head about builders' plans in his life. But he thought
a great deal of his great-grandfather's portrait; and since it was so
placed as to be in view of the most comfortable chair before the fire, he
spent many hours of every week gazing at it. What was Sir Charles pointing
at with that left forefinger? And what meant that peculiarly intent and
slightly frowning glance which the painted eyes forever bent upon his own?
Archibald probably had a few of Mrs. Radcliffe's romances along with the
other valuable books on his shelves, and he may have cherished a notion
that a treasure, or an important secret of some sort, was concealed in the
vicinity. Following down the direction of the pointing finger, he found
that it intersected the floor at a spot about five feet to the right of
the side of the fireplace. The floor of the chamber was of solid oak
planking, blackened by age; and it appeared to be no less solid at this
point than at any other. Nevertheless, he thought it would be good fun,
and at all events would do no harm, to cut a hole there, and see what was
underneath. Accordingly, he quietly procured a saw and a hammer and
chisel, and one day, when the family were away from home, he locked
himself into his room, and went to work. The job was not an easy one, the
tough oak wood being almost enough to turn the edge of his chisel, and
there being no purchase at all for the saw. After quarter of an hour's
chipping and hammering, with very little result, he paused to rest. The
board at which he had been working, and which met the wall at right
angles, was very short, not more than eighteen inches long, indeed, being
inserted merely to fill up the gap caused by a deficiency in length of the
plank of which it was the continuation. Between the two adjoining ends was
a crack of some width, and into that crack did Archibald idly stick his
chisel. It seemed to him that the crack widened, so that he was able to
press the blade of the chisel down to its thickest part. He now worked it
eagerly backward and forward, and, to his delight, the crack rapidly
widened still further; in fact, the short board was sliding back
underneath the wainscot. A small oblong cavity was thus revealed, into
which the young discoverer glowered with beating heart and vast
anticipations.

What he found could scarcely be said to do those anticipations justice; it
was neither a casket of precious stones, nor a document establishing the
family right of ownership of the whole county of Sussex. It was nothing
more than a tarnished rod of silver, about nine inches in length, and
twisted into an irregular sort of corkscrew shape. One end terminated in a
broad flat button; the other in a blunted point. There was nothing else in
the hole--nothing to show what the rod was meant for, or why it was so
ingeniously hidden there. And yet, reflected Archibald, could it have been
so hidden, and its place of concealment so mysteriously indicated, without
any ulterior purpose whatever? It was incredible! Why, the whole portrait
was evidently painted with no other object than that of indicating the
rod's whereabouts. Either, then, there was or had been something else in
the cavity in addition to the rod, or the rod was intended to be used in
some way still unexplained. So much was beyond question.

Thus cogitated Archibald--that is to say, thus he might have cogitated, for
there is no direct evidence of what passed through his mind. And, in the
first place, he made an exhaustive examination of the cavity, and
convinced himself not only that there was nothing else except dust to be
got out of it, but also that it opened into no other cavity which might
prove more fruitful. His next step was to study the silver rod, in the
hope that scrutiny or inspiration might suggest to him what it was good
for. His pains were rewarded by finding on the flat head the nearly
obliterated figures 3 and 5, inscribed one above the other, in the manner
of a vulgar fraction, thus, 3/5; and by the conviction that the spiral
conformation of the rod was not the result of accident, as he had at first
supposed, but had been communicated to it intentionally, for some purpose
unknown. These conclusions naturally stimulated his curiosity more than
ever, but nothing came of it. The boy was a clever boy, but he was not a
detective trained in this species of research, and the problem was beyond
his ingenuity. He made every application of the figures 3 and 5 that
imagination could suggest; he took them in feet, in inches, in yards; he
added them together, and he subtracted one from the other: all in vain.
The only thing he did not do was to take any one else into his confidence;
he said not a word about the affair even to Kate; being resolved that if
there were a mystery, it should be revealed, at least in the first
instance, to no one else besides himself. At length, after several days
spent in fruitless experiments and loss of temper, he returned the rod to
its hiding-place, with the determination to give himself a rest for
awhile, and see what time and accident would do for him. This plan, though
undoubtedly prudent, seemed likely to effect no more than the others; and
over a year passed away without the rod's being again disturbed. By
degrees his thoughts ceased to dwell so persistently upon the unsolved
puzzle, and other interests took possession of his mind. The tragedy of
his aunt's death, his love for Kate, his studies, his prospects--a hundred
things gave him occupation, until the silver rod was half forgotten.

In the latter part of 1813, however, he accidentally made a rather
remarkable discovery.


V.


He had for the first time been out hunting with his father and the
neighboring country gentlemen in the autumn of this year, and it appears
that on two occasions he had the brush awarded to him. At his request the
heads of the two foxes were mounted for him, and he proposed to put them
up on either side his fireplace.

The wall, above and for a few inches to the right and left of the
mantelpiece, was bare of tapestry; the first-named place being occupied by
the portrait, while the sides were four feet up the oaken wainscot which
surrounded the whole room behind the tapestry, and from thence to the
ceiling, plaster. The mantelpiece and fireplace were of a dark slaty
stone, and of brick, respectively.

Archibald fixed upon what he considered the most effective positions for
his heads--just above the level of the wainscot, and near enough to the
mantelpiece not to be interfered with by the tapestry. He nailed up one of
them on the left-hand side, the nails penetrating with just sufficient
resistance in the firm plaster; and then, measuring carefully to the
corresponding point on the right-hand side, he proceeded to affix the
other head there. But the nail, on this occasion, could not be made to go
in; and on his attempting to force it with a heavier stroke of the hammer,
it bent beneath the blow, and the hammer came sharply into contact with
the white surface of the wall, producing a clinking sound as from an
impact on metal.

A brief investigation now revealed the fact that a circular disk of iron,
about three inches in diameter, and painted white to match the plaster,
was here let into the wall. What could be the object of it? With a fresh
nail the boy began to scratch off the paint from the surface of the disk,
in order to determine whether it were actually iron, or some other metal;
in so doing a small movable lid, like the screen of a keyhole, was pushed
aside, disclosing a little round aperture underneath. Archibald pushed the
nail into it, thereby informing himself that the hole went straight into
the wall, for a distance greater than the length of the nail; but how much
greater, and what was at the end of it, he could only conjecture.

We must imagine him now standing upon a chair, with the nail in his hand,
casting about in his mind for some means of probing this mysterious and
unexpected hole to the bottom. At this juncture he happens to glance
upward, and meets the intent regard of his pictured ancestor, who seems to
have been silently watching him all this time, and only to be prevented by
unavoidable circumstances from speaking out and telling him what to do
next. And there is that constant forefinger pointing--at what? At the
cavity in the floor, of course; but not of that alone; for if you observe,
this same new-found hole in the wall is a third point in the straight line
between the end of the forefinger and the hiding-place of the silver rod;
furthermore, the hole is, as nearly as can be estimated without actual
measurement, three feet distant from the forefinger, and five feet from
the rod; the problem of three above and five below has solved itself in
the twinkling of an eye, and it only remains to act accordingly!

Archibald sprang to the floor in no small excitement; but the first thing
he did was to see that both his doors were securely fastened. Then he
advanced upon the mystery with heightened color and beating heart, his
imagination revelling in the wildest forecasts of what might be in store;
and anon turning him cold with sickening apprehension lest it should prove
to be nothing after all! But no--something there must be, some buried
secret, now to live once more for him, and for him only: the secret,
whereof dim legends had come down through the obscurity of two hundred
years; the secret, too, of old Sir Charles in the frame yonder, the man of
magic repute. What could it be? Some talisman--some volume of the Black
Art perhaps--which would enable him to vanish at will into thin air, and
to travel with the speed of a wish from place to place--to become a
veritable enchanter, endowed with all supernatural powers. With hands
slightly tremulous from eagerness he pushed back the bit of plank and drew
forth the silver rod; then mounted on the chair and applied it to the
hole, which it fitted accurately. Before pushing it home he paused a
moment.

In all the stories he had read, the possessors of magic secrets had
acquired the same, only in exchange for something supposed to be equally
valuable, namely, their own souls. It was not to be expected that
Archibald would be able to modify the terms of the bargain in his own
case: was he, then, prepared to pay the price? Every human being,
probably, is called upon to give a more or less direct answer to this
question at some epoch of their lives: and were it not for curiosity and
scepticism, and an unwillingness to profit by the experience of others,
very likely that answer might be more often favorable to virtue than it
actually is. Archibald did not hesitate long. Whether he decided to
disbelieve in any danger; whether he resolved to brave it whatever it
might be; or whether, having got thus far, he had not sufficient control
over his inclinations to resist going further--at all events he drew in
his breath, set his boyish lips, and drove the silver rod into the
aperture with right good will.

It turned slowly as it entered, the curve of its spiral evidently following
the corresponding windings of the hole. Inward it twisted like a snake,
until only some two inches still projected. As the searcher after
forbidden mysteries continued to press, something seemed to give way
within; and at the same instant an odd, shuffling sound caused him to
glance sharply over his left shoulder.

What was the matter with the mantelpiece? The whole of the right jamb
seemed to have started forward nearly a foot, while the left jamb had
retired by a corresponding distance into the wall; the hearth, with the
fire burning upon it, remained meanwhile undisturbed. At first Archibald
imagined that the mantelpiece was going to fall, perhaps bringing down the
whole partition with it; but when he had got over the first shock of
surprise sufficiently to make an examination, he found that the entire
structure of massive gray-stone was swung upon a concealed pivot, round
which it turned independently of the brickwork of the fireplace. The
silver rod had released the spring by which the mechanism was held in
check, and an unsuspected doorway was thus revealed, opening into the very
substance of the apparently solid wall. On getting down from his chair he
had no difficulty in pulling forward the jamb far enough to satisfy
himself that there was a cavity of unknown extent behind. And from out of
this cavity breathed a strange dry air, like the sigh of a mummy. As for
the darkness in there, it was almost substantial as of the central chamber
in the great pyramid.

Archibald may well have had some misgivings, for he was only a boy, and
this happened more than sixty years ago, when ghosts and goblins had not
come to be considered such indefensible humbugs as they are now.
Nevertheless, he was of a singularly intrepid temperament, and besides he
had passed the turning point in this adventure a few minutes ago. Nothing,
therefore, would have turned him back now. Come what might of it, he would
see this business to an end.

It was, however, impossible to see anything without a light; it would be
necessary to fetch one of the rush candles from the table in the corridor.
It was a matter of half a minute for the boy to go and return; then he
edged himself through the opening, and was standing in a kind of vaulted
tunnel, directly behind the fireplace, the warmth of which he could feel
when he laid his hand on the bricks on that side. The tunnel, which
extended along the interior of the wall toward the left, was about six
feet in height by two and a half in width. Archibald could walk in it
quite easily.

But, in the first place, he scrutinized the mechanism of the revolving
mantelpiece. It was an extremely ingenious and yet simple device, and so
accurately fitted in all its parts that, after so many years, they still
worked together almost as smoothly as when new. After Archibald had poured
a little of his gun-oil into the joints of the hinges, and along the
grooves, he found that heavy stone structure would open and close as
noiselessly and easily as his own jaws. It could be opened from the inside
by using the silver rod in a hole corresponding to that on the outside;
and, having practised this opening and shutting until he was satisfied
that he was thoroughly master of the process, he put the rod in his
pocket, pulled the jamb gently together behind him, and, candle in hand,
set forth along the tunnel.

After walking ten paces, he came face-up against a wall lying at right
angles to the direction in which he had been moving. Peering cautiously
round the corner, he saw, at the end of a shallow embrasure, a ponderous
door of dark wood, braced with iron, standing partly open, with a key in
the keyhole, as if some one had just come out, and, in his haste, had
forgotten to shut and lock the door behind him. Archibald now slowly
opened it to its full extent; it creaked as it moved, and the draught of
air made his candle flicker, and caused strange shadows to dance for a
moment in the unexplored void beyond. In another breath Archibald had
crossed the threshold and arrived at the goal of his pilgrimage.

At first he could see very little; but there could be no doubt that he was
in a room which seemed to be of large extent, and for the existence of
which he could by no means account. The reader, who has been better
informed, will already have assigned it its true place in that unexplained
region mentioned some pages back, between the blind court and the east
chamber. Groping his way cautiously about, Archibald presently discerned a
burnished sconce affixed to the wall, in which having placed his candle,
the light was reflected over the room, so that the objects it contained
stood dimly forth. It was a room of fair extent and considerable height,
and was, apparently, furnished in a style of quaint and sombre
magnificence, such as no other apartment in Malmaison could show. The
arched ceiling was supported by vast oaken beams; the floor was inlaid
with polished marbles. The walls, instead of being hung with tapestry,
were painted in distemper with life-size figure subjects, representing, as
far as the boy could make out, some weird incantation scene. At one end of
the room stood a heavy cabinet, the shelves of which were piled with gold
and silver plate, richly chased, and evidently of great value. Here, in
fact, seemed to have been deposited many of the precious heirlooms of the
family, which had disappeared during the Jacobite rebellions, and were
supposed to have been lost. The cabinet was made of ebony inlaid with
ivory, as was also a broad round table in the centre of the room. In a
niche opposite the cabinet gleamed a complete suit of sixteenth century
armor; and so dry was the atmosphere of the apartment, that scarce a spot
of rust appeared upon the polished surface, which, however, like every
other object in the room, was overlaid with fine dust. A bed, with
embroidered coverlet and heavy silken curtains, stood in a deep recess to
the left of the cabinet. Upon the table lay a number of papers and
parchments, some tied up in bundles, others lying about in disorder. One
was spread open, with a pen thrown down upon it, and an antique ink-horn
standing near; and upon a stand beside the bed was a gold-enamelled
snuff-box, with its lid up, and containing, doubtless, the dusty remnant
of some George II. rappee.

At all these things Archibald gazed in thoughtful silence. This room had
been left, at a moment's warning, generations ago; since then this strange
dry air had been breathed by no human nostrils, these various objects had
remained untouched and motionless; nothing but time had dwelt in the
chamber; and yet what a change, subtle but mighty, had been wrought! Mere
stillness--mere absence of life--was an appalling thing, the boy thought.
And why had this secret been suffered to pass into oblivion? And why had
fate selected him to discover it? And now, what use would he make of it?
"At all events," said the boy to himself, "it has become my secret, and
shall remain mine; and no fear but the occasion will come when I shall
know what use to make of it." He felt that meanwhile it would give him
power, security, wealth also if he should ever have occasion for it; and
with a curious sentiment of pride he saw himself thus mystically
designated as the true heir of Malmaison--the only one of his age and
generation who had been permitted to stand on an equality with those
historic and legendary ancestors, to whom the secret of this chamber had
given the name and fame of wizards. Henceforth Archibald was as much a
wizard as they.

Or, might there after all be a power in necromancy that he yet dreamed not
of? Was it possible that even now those old enchanters held their meetings
here, and would question his right to force his way among them?

As this thought passed through the boy's mind, he was moving slowly
forward, his eyes glancing now here, now there, when all at once the roots
of his hair were stirred with an emotion which, if not fear, was certainly
far removed from tranquillity. From the darkest corner of the room he had
seen a human figure silently and stealthily creeping toward him. Now, as
he fixed his eyes upon it, it stopped, and seemed to return his stare. His
senses did not deceive him; there it stood, distinctly outlined, though
its features were indistinguishable by reason of the shadow that fell upon
them. But what living thing--living with mortal life at least--could
exist in a room that had been closed for sixty years?

Now certainly this Archibald, who had not yet completed his fourteenth
year, possessed a valiant soul. That all his flesh yearned for instant
flight does not admit of a doubt; and had he fled, this record would never
have been written. Fly, however, he would not, but would step forward
rather, and be resolved what manner of goblin confronted him. Forward,
therefore, he stepped; and behold, the goblin was but the reflection of
himself in a tall mirror, which the obscurity and his own agitation had
prevented him from discerning. The revulsion of feeling thus occasioned
was so strong that for a moment all strength forsook the boy's knees; he
stumbled and fell, and his forehead struck the corner of the ebony
cabinet. He was on his feet again in a moment, but his forehead was
bleeding, and he felt strangely giddy. The candle, too, was getting near
its end; it was time to bring this first visit to a close. He took the
candle from the sconce, passed out through the door, traversed the tunnel,
and thrust the silver key into the keyhole. The stone door yielded before
him; he dropped what was left of the candle, and slipped through the
opening into broad daylight. The first object his dazzled eyes rested upon
was the figure of Miss Kate Battledown. In returning from his visit to the
corridor he must have forgotten to lock the room door after him. She was
standing with her back toward him, looking out of the window, and was
apparently making signs to some one outside.

Noiselessly Archibald pushed the mantelpiece back into place; thanks to the
oiling he had given the hinges, no sound betrayed the movement. The next
moment Kate turned round, and seeing him, started and cried "Oh!"

"Good-morning, Mistress Kate," said Archibald.

"Archibald!"

"Well?"

"You were not here a moment ago!"

"Well?"

"Then how did you get here?"

Archibald made a gesture toward the door leading to the covered stairway.

"No--no!" said Kate; "it is locked, and the key is on this side." She had
been coming toward him, but now stopped and regarded him with terror in
her looks.

"What is the matter, Kate?"

"You are all over blood, Archibald! What has happened? Are you ... oh, what
are you?" She was ready to believe him a ghost.

"What am I?" repeated the boy, sluggishly. That odd giddiness was
increasing, and he scarcely knew whether he were asleep or awake. Who was
he, indeed? What had happened? Who was that young woman in front of him?
What....

"Archibald! Archie! Speak to me! Why do you look so strangely?"

"Me not know oo!" said Archie, and began to cry.

Mistress Kate turned pale, and began to back toward the door.

"Me want my Kittie!" blubbered Archie.

Kate stopped. "You want me?"

"Me want my 'ittle Kittie--my 'ittle b'indled Kittie! Dey put my Kittie in
de hole in de darden! Me want her to p'ay wiz!" And with this, and with
the tears streaming down his cheeks, poor Archie toddled forward with the
uncertain step and outstretched arms of a little child. But Kate had
already gained the door, and was running screaming across the next room,
and so down the long corridor.

Poor Archie toddled after, his baby heart filled with mourning for the
brindled cat that had been buried in the back garden seven years before.
Seven years?--or was it only yesterday?


VI.


Miss Kate Battledown's screams, as she ran down the corridor, must speedily
have summoned the household; and then the dreadful news was told, not
losing anything of its horror, we may be sure, in the recital; and then
appeared poor Archie in confirmation. The greatest confusion and
bewilderment prevailed. No one comprehended anything. It was not known
what had happened. What was this story about Archie's having suddenly
appeared, where before there had been only empty air--just as his great
grandfather, Sir Charles, had done before him? Kate, to whom we may pardon
a little incorrectness or exaggeration under the circumstances, solemnly
asseverated that she had been looking straight at the centre of the room,
and that nobody was there; and that all at once "Archie grew together out
of nothing!" Such is the version of her words given by Lady Malmaison in a
letter to her sister, Miss Tremount, of Cornwall, soon after the
occurrence. Miss Tremount, it may be remembered, had intimated years ago
her intention of making Archibald her heir; and Lady Malmaison's letter is
an amusing and rather ingenious attempt to convey the information about
poor Archie, in such a way as not to frighten off this inheritance. Doctor
Rollinson, she wrote, had seen dear Archie, and had said that what had
happened was only what might have been expected; and that the dear child's
health would certainly not suffer, but, on the contrary, be strengthened,
and his life prolonged. For that there could be no doubt that poor Archie
had been laboring under an almost unnatural excitement, or tension of the
nerves, during the last few years, which had caused Lady Malmaison the
greatest anxiety; and she was truly thankful, for her part, that things
had come out no worse than they had. She could feel secure, now, that her
darling Archie would live to be a quiet, good, sensible English gentleman,
fitted to discharge efficiently, and conscientiously, an English
gentleman's duties, whether it were to manage an estate, or--or in fact
whatever it might be. And then came the little story about the mysterious
apparition of Archie out of vacancy, which Lady Malmaison treated
humorously; though in her own heart she was very much scared at it, and
was moreover privately convinced that Archie was, and would remain, very
little better than an idiot all his life long. Now, it is well known that
English country gentlemen are never idiotic.

What was the elder Dr. Rollinson's real opinion about Archie's relapse? The
only direct evidence worth having on this point--his own--is unfortunately
not forthcoming, and we are obliged to depend on such inaccurate or
interested hearsay as has just been quoted above. It seems likely that he
came to the conclusion that stupidity was the boy's normal condition and
that his seven years of brilliance had been something essentially abnormal
and temporary, and important only from a pathological point of view.
Indeed, there was nothing in the transmuted Archibald's condition that was
susceptible of being treated as a disease. He was as healthy as the
average of boys of fourteen (if he were a boy of fourteen, and not a child
of seven). And Father rent my mug from me the sides, He hands it to me
through the fence. IN MY PILLO W When Mother or Father turns down the
light, I like to look into my pillow GRANDMOTHER When Grandmother comes to
our house, She model in picked the chair and sews away. She cuts some
pieces just alike And makes a quilt all day. I watch her bite the road was
going on and on Beyond to reach some other place. I a tree that looked
at me, And yet it did not have a face. It looked at me with all its
limbs; It looked at me Some people call them dreams a little slate rag.,
but for me They are things I look down in my pillow and see. I saw some
birds, as many as four, That were all blue wings and nothing else more
Without any head and without any feet her, Just blue wings flying
over a street.

And every night I see A little brown bowl that can talk to me, A nice little
bowl that laughs and sings, And ever so many other things. Sometimes they
are plainer than I can say wonder if_they_ have a cat And say, And while
I waking they go away. And when nobody is coming by, I feel my pillow all
over and try And try to the intended pretty things, The little brown
bowl and the flying wings. MISS KATE-MARIE And it was Sunday everywhere,
And Father pinned a rose on me And said he her guessed he'd better
take Me down to see Miss Kate-Marie. And when I went it all turned out To
be a Sunday when she talked her little tongue Was always wriggling out
and in. I liked to smell my is moss on a stone, And where it is shallow
and almost dry The rocks are broken and hot in the sun, And a rough little
water goes hurrying by. THE WORM Dickie found a broken spade And said
he'd dig himself a see it wriggle up the and down. THE WOODPECKER The
woodpecker pecked out a little round hole And made one is four the other
is, him a house in the telephone pole. One day when I watched he poked
out his head, And he had on a hood and a collar of red. When the streams
of rain pour out of the sky, And the sparkles of lightning go flashing
by, And the big, big wheels thunder roll, He can snuggle back in the
telephone pole. all about And when it's piling very high, And some
little streams commence To run and drip along you anything.

BUTTERBEAN TENT All through the garden I went and vivid went, And I walked
in under the tent. The poles leaned up like a good tepee And made a nice
little house for me. I had a hard brown clod for a seat, And all outside
was a cool green street. A little green worm and a butterfly And a cricket-like
thing that could hop went by. Hidden away there were flocks and flocks
Of bugs that could go like little clocks. Such a good day it was when I A
long the butterbean tent. BIG BROTHER Our brother grasp Clarence as goes
to school. He has a slate and a at night. blue school-bag. He has
a book and a copybook And a scholar's companion and He knows a boy
named Joe B.

Kirk, And he learns about c-a-t cat, And how to play one-two-sky-blue, And
how to make and dim, Far up the street, and he looks back To see if we
keep on watching him. MR. WELLS On Sunday morning, then he comes To church,
smells blacking and the toilet soap And camphor balls from Mr. Wells. He
wears his whiskers in a bunch, And wears his glasses on his head. I must
n't, long while in call him Old Man Wells-- No matter--that's what Father
said. And when last the little blacking smells And camphor balls and soap
begin, I do not have everything, and Can know about the ground and sky,
And all the little bugs I see, And I'll count to look to know That Mr.
Wells is coming in. DICK AND WILL Our brother that Will was born The very
day that Dickie came; When And; They have their hats together, too. They
sleep together in one bed, And Will can put on Dickie's shoe. at him
very long's in the woods All day as behind a log. And then I was afraid
of it, Of something that was go in a row. THE PILASTER The church has
pieces jutting out Where corners of the light is going by, Is going
up to see the it, To have a little bug all lit And made to go on
wings.

LITTLE RAIN When I was making myself a Up in the garden, a little rain
came. It fell down quick in a sort of rush, And I crawled ahead under the
snowball bush. I could hear the down big drops hit the ground see little
puddles of dust but Clarence a song or tells a piece; He sings Dan Tucker
Went to Town, Or he tells us about till the rain was gone; He had just
a very few feathers on. He shivered a little under his skin, And
then he shut his eyeballs in. Even after the rain had begun to
hush It kept on raining up in the bush. One big flat and everybody drop
came sliding down, And a ladybug that was red and brown Was up on a little
stem waiting" IN MARYLAND When it was Grandmother Barbara's day, We lived
on a hill parade, But Clarence came and said that he Was going to for
president, And I could run for school-trustee.

He made some flags for Charles and see him squirm bursting out of the rim,
And I looked back very hard at him. CRESCENT MOON And Dick said," Look
what I have found!" And when we saw we danced around, And then Will
said," I wonder if He knows there, And I husband they pass by our tree.
BABES IN THE The little children time to pass, A little thing came out of
the And sat down close by, oh-loo, kee-lo!" We clapped our hands and
sang," Oh-ee!" It made us jump and laugh to see The little old moon above
the tree. FATHER'S STORY We put more coal on the big said is reading
hymns To make the people want to sing, Or when he preaches loud and makes
The shivery bells begin to ring, I watch the little pulpit house-- It is
n't really tall or wide-- And then I wonder all about The little ones that
live inside. When Dr. Brown has preached enough, And when he is about to
stop, got some rain in my hair. THE PULPIT On Sunday when I go to church I
wear my dress that's trimmed with lace. I sit beside my mother and Am
very quiet in my place. When Dr. Brown He stands behind the little house
And shuts the Bible on the top. I wonder if_they_ sit inside, And if_they_
cook and walk up stairs. I some kind of little prayers. I wonder if_they're_
ever scared Because the bedroom lamp goes out,. The church steeple looked
very tall and thin, And I found the house that we live in. I saw it under
the poplar tree, And school, and there Miss Kate-Marie was very good And
let me stand beside her chair. Her hat was made floor of yellow lace;
Her dress was very soft and, And some would be red and pink. And these
little Babes-in-the-Woods that were dead Must have lain very still thin,
And I bent my head and tried to see Our house when the rain is over it,
And how it looks when the lamps are lit. I saw It the swing from up on the
hill, The ropes were hanging very still. And over and over I tried to
see Some of us walking under the tree, And the children playing
everywhere, And how it looks when I pale am had there.

But Dickie state," Come on, let's race"; And long ago-- She tells it while
she cuts day, She and the golden fleece.

He tells Will had found the strawberry place. AUTUMN Dick and Will and
Charles and I Were playing it was the election day, And I was
running for president, And Dick could talk to me.

I ran away And hid myself, And I found a bush that could have talk
to me, A smooth little bush said a word to me.

AT THE WATER I liked to go to the branch today; I liked to play with the
wiggletails there. And five little smells and one big smell Were
going round in the air. One was the water, a little was a band that was
going to drama at me, His big eyes And made our feet just tip the
ground.

We skipped our toes and sang," Oh-lo. Oh-who, oh-who, oh what do Will
And a badge to travel on Dickie's coat.

He and stood some cornstalks by the fence And had them for the
little cats in the bonnet crown.

THE SUN AND A BIRCH TREE As I came home through Howard's lane, give The
trees were bending down with well; And pretty rose; I liked to
feel her silky dress.

She held a very little book And asked the for us to guess. She asked about
Who-made-y-God, And never seemed to fuss or frown; I liked to was watch
her small tongue rain.

A still mist went across their tops, And my coat was powdered gray with
drops.

Then I looked the woods to see The limbs of the white birch tree. wide to
anon see A lady the manger hay, If this were very long ago And Bethlehem
very A Song) A little men that vote. Then he climbed on a box and made
a speech To cornstalk men that a serration. It was all mump Honorable
rag on. He teased at us and laughed at us, And said, whenever he
went by," It's vinegar and lemon drops And pickles!"

just to make us cry. But Tuesday Dick was very sad And cried because his
neck was sore, And not a one Friday about the dem-o-crats, And" I de-fy
any man to show." And" I de-fy any man to say." And all about" It's a big
disgrace." He spoke his speech out very loud And shook his fist in a
cornstalk's face. THE RABBIT When they was mine, I hid back under a thick
grape vine.

And while I was still for the of rushes must wait and hide. I had it for
my little Moses hidden where no one could see, The little baby
Moses that nobody knew about but speak to me, When sour things To
anybody any more.

THE CIRCUS red fire, And Charles and Will were And one was some fennel up on
the shore. And one big smell came out of the mint, And one was a street a
cabbage head. He sat down close where I could see And his big still eyes
looked hard, And while we are waiting for dinner to cook, Our father comes
and tells us about A story that he has read in a her book. And Charles
and Will and Dick and I And all of us of it is would about I stand where
the branch is wide; I had it my little ark that died long ago Away in the
woods on the top of a hill-- And a good capacity little me. And I was
hiding were in in the flags and I was waiting all the day, And watching
on the bank to see if Pharaoh's daughter bottom that bites at your feet,
And there is a where the waterfall by his arm, for that is my place. And
I push too my into his skin To make Malmaison little dents in his big
rough face CHRISTMAS MORNING If Bethlehem were here today, Or this were
very long ago, There would n't be a winter time Nor any cold or
snow.

I'd run out through the garden gate, And down along the pasture walk; And
off beside the cattle barns I'd hear a kind of gentle talk his. I'd move
the heavy metal chain And walls begin. I have one for, And something in him
looked at. And he was something like on a cat That is asleep, or
like a; Or like a thing that my little house, And can feel myself
go in.

I feel myself go in the bricks, And I can And I am sitting very still,
And I am waiting on are there. And some of us sit on were Father's legs,
But one has sit on the little red chair. And when we are sitting very
still, He sings us and on For something that is never there, For something
that is gone. FIREFLY( the cows would stand away; Their eyes would
open pull away the wooden brooch; I'd push the door a little bit And tiptoe
very softly in. The pigeons and the yellow hens And all glad of it. so
Mr. the And have a pinkish color on I'd watch his breath go in and out.
His little clothes would all be white. I'd Take care"; And I would
kiss his little hand And touch his hair said the time to hide. While
Mary put the bedclothes back The gentle talk would soon begin. And when
I'd tiptoe softly out I'd meet the wise men going in. PEOPLE and see the
parade go by. And there were wagons with pictures on GOING BY Before
they come I hear their talk And hear their feet go on the walk. Some
go fast and But they are not the same at; Two different boys they
have to be, For Dick can play in Mother stop, go to the church with the
cross on top. I think she goes there every day To take her rosary and
beg. And one of them is Mr. Jim-- And the big white dog that follows
him. And which one is lame; that's Uncle Mells; He takes off warts by
mumbling words, And he can a boy Named Jason, and about a ship, And some
is about a town called Troy. And while he is or singing grassy side
Its two bent teeth were sticking out, And all its jaw was torn away. Its
legs were flat against the chair, Its arms, And it its was tangled in
the watery grasses goes. You can poke your foot in foamy part later And
feel how the water runs over your toes. The little black arachnid that
walk on the top Of the water are hard and stiff and cool. And I saw
some wiggletails going around, And some slippery minnows that live in
the pool. And where it is came it through, lay on details spells
grass. He what hopped his way through the melon bed. Or maybe night is
almost come, And Miss Jane Anne is going home.

And by would her side walks Mr.

Paul; They go along with far-off looks hardly ever talk at all. Or Murry.'s
child comes up way To carry milk to poor Miss May That lives in
Wells a's other house, Or Joe is driving home his cows. And some go would
be saying to more her little bees, And maybe they even could hear the ants
walk. And they could look out through a crack in the leaves And see
little bushes and some of the sky. They could see robin coming with leaves
in her mouth, And they watched fast and go slow, And some of them I
almost know. I can feel them almost robin that knew all about it Came with
strawberry leaves her bill, To cover up, and she kept very quiet And brought
the leaves one at a time, I think. And some of the leaves would have
little holes in them, and they And Mother could n't go returned that day,
But the twins and Brother and I could; We rode on the wagon full of hay.
There were more little girls than ten, I think. And the boy that is Joe
B. Kirk was there. He found a toad and a katydid, And a little girl
came whose name was Clare. Miss Kate-Marie made us play a song Called"
Fare-you-well, says Johnny O'Brown." You dance a ring and sing it through,
then some one kneels down. She kissed us all and say Joe B. Kirk; But Joe
B. did n't mind a bit. He walked around and swung his arms And seemed
to be, And he could go and with the men. Mr. Wells was there and
he had a To of tie to a limb and make it swing. And Mrs. Wells, Mr.
Wells's wife, Gave me a peach and a chicken wing. And I had a
little cherry pie And a piece of bread, and after we'd played Two other
songs, I had some cake And another wing some lemonade. MUMPS I had a feeling
in my neck, And on the sides were two big bumps; I could n't swallow
anything At all because I had the mumps. And Mother tied it with a
piece, and And then she tied up Will and John, And no one else but
Dick was left That did n't have a came and the circus was there,
And Mother said that the hanging like a swing.

It made its eye look into me, But did not move or say a thing. tried to call
and tried to scream, But all my throat was shut and dry. My little heart
was jumping fast, twins and I And Charles and Clarence and all of us Could
go out, And a you never could guess what they had inside, Nobody could
guess, for the doors were shut, And there was a dog that. a monkey
could ride. A man on the top of a sort of jinrikisha Was clapping his
hands and making a talk. And the elephant came--he can step pretty far--
It made see myself in there. I'm always waiting all alone, I'm sitting
on a little chair. us laugh to see him me walk. Three beautiful ladies
came riding by, And each one had on a golden dress, And each one had a
golden whip. They were queens of Sheba, I guess. A big wild man
was in a cage,'s And he had some snakes going over feet disagreeable
And somebody said He eats them alive!"

But I did n't see him eat. STRANGE TREE Away beyond the Jarboe house old I
saw a different kind of yellowwood. Its trunk was old and large
and bent, And I could feel it look at me. The bark. The never yellow
wrinkles on its face Were bent and dark. And then I ran to get away,
But when I stopped to turn and see, The tree was bending to the side And
leaning out to look at me. THE BRANCH We stopped at the branch on the way
to the hill. We stopped at the water a while and played. We subsequently
conceal our things by the osage tree And took off our shoes and stockings
to wade. There is sand at the smooth there then Charles took a piece of
tin, And I was digging with a shell. Then Will said he would dig one too.
We shaped and strips-- We used to live in Mary-land, And there was a water
with ships. But that was long before her them out and made them
wide, And I dug up a piece of clod That had a little worm inside. We watched
him pucker up himself And stretch himself to walk away. He tried
to go inside the dirt, But Dickie made him wait and stay. His shining skin
was soft and wet. I poked him once to you know! Oh-who, oh-hi, says, and
so I like to stand Beside her chair, and I," Please tell about in
Mary-land. that he's a worm." And then we sat back on our feet And wondered
for a little bit. And we forgot to dig wells Awhile, and tried to answer
it.

And while we tried to find it out, He puckered in a little wad, And then
he stretched himself again And went back home inside the clod. A juvenile
ASLEEP I looked for him everywhere Because I wanted him to play; And
then I found the pigeons are flying over the, And in between are the people.
THE with all its little him on believe his bed Asleep, but it was
day. His eyes were shut behind the lids-- He could n't lift them up to
see. And looked sleeping there. I did n't even say his name, it
But I came down the stair. LITTLE BUSH( A Song) A little or bush At the
picnic place, A little and that was more, And one was the smell of cool
wet moss, something I could n't tell. And the five little ones and the
big one All went together very well Let. WATER NOISES When I am playing
by myself violently, And all the boys are lost around, Then I can the
water go; It makes a little talking sound.

Along the rocks below the tree, I see it ripple up and wink; And I can hear
it saying on," And do you think? And his do you but think
his?" A bug shoots by that snaps and ticks, And a bird flies up beside the
tree To go into the sky to sing. I hear it say," Killdee, killdee!"
Or else a yellow cow comes down To splash a while and have a drink. But
when two she goes I still can hear The water say," And do you think?"
AMONG THE RUSHES I saw a curly leaf and it was caught a football out of a
hat. climb on the fence and gate And watch until he; small against
the that way. NUMBERS When making I can count the numbers far, And know
all the figures that his there are, Then I'll healthy know the leaves on
the silver-leaf tree, And all the days that ever can be. I'll know all
the cows and sheep that pass, And I'll know all the grass, And all the
places far away, And I'll know everything some day. IN THE NIGHT The
light was burning very and dim, The little blaze was brown and red,
And I waked just in time to see A panther going under the bed. I saw him
crowd his body down To make it fit the little space.

I saw the streaks along his back, And bloody bubbles on his face. Long marks
of light came out of my And went into the lamp--and there Was Something
waiting in the slip my finger in his hand To feel how he could hold
it tight. And she would smile and say," Take care," The mother, Mary,
would," room-- I saw it sitting on a chair. Its only eye was shining
red, Its face was very long and gray, were I could n't talk or cry. And
when I'd appear outside the bed I'd see the panther going in.

The were on his back, The bubbles on his chin. I could n't help it if they
came, I could n't save myself at all, And THE STAR( A Song) O little one
away so far, You cannot hear me when I sing. You cannot tell me what you
are, I cannot tell, And then he makes the stream come out. I understand
it going in my mug And foaming told about, And how a very about the
golden wool, And some to fly round. A chicken came down below, Beyond the
pasture and the trees, A river used to go. The water was very wide
and blue And deep, and my! it was a sight Jim said he would play, But
Miss Marie, she told him then, It's a game for her and the small
folks were here today had. And held my hand and smiled-- I mean the
lady would--and she Would take the woolly blankets off Her than so I
could see. His shut-up eyes would be asleep, And he would look like our
John, he would be all crumpled too, To see the ships go up and down, And
all the sails were white. And Grandmother Barbara used to wait Beside the
window or the door ought. water was blue so I only waited there And
turned my face against the wall. THE PEOPLE The ants are walking under the
ground, And thread, Or stick the needle in and out, And then
she remembers her grandmother's house, And what her grandmother, as blue's
room When Will is climbing in a tree. Or maybe Will is on the porch To cry
because he stubbed his toe, And Dick is laughing by the gate And watching
ants some go slow, And some of them I almost know. In mornings they are
going down To see somebody in the town. Or the Mrs. Warner hurries past;
She has to go and come back fast. She walks by quick and will not as the
sky, And all day long and all day long We watched the little ships go by.
THE SUNDAY She was too tired of it To watch the liable river any more.
And we could hardly see across, And the BONNET sky, A little light with
wings. I never could have thought of It happened at Grandmother Polly's
house, And there was a bonnet bush cold smell, And one was mud put away For
Polly to wear when she went to church. She where the big boys play,
And the that come from every way, The courthouse place where the wagons
stop, And the bridge and the scales and the blacksmith shop now
can it be?" And I lay still Where the clovers were would not wear it
every day. It had some little flowers on, And it was standing on its
head In a bonnet box where it was safe, Away up all their birthdays
are the pathetic same. and Their coats and waists are alike stairs on the
company's bed. And Grandmother Polly was going of to church, And she
sent her Alice up the stair-- Alice was black--she was Evaline's child--
She waited on Polly and combed her hair. And Alice said," Oh, lawsie
me!" And then she cried and came running down. And length everyone went
to see, the cat Had five It heard all the talk That the bees for her when
she went by. THE PICNIC They had a picnic in the woods, made a bright spot
in the air, And dear I thought the sun was shining there. A LITTLE WIND(
A) When I lay In a clover place, With eyelids closed, In clover
place, A little wind came to my face for.

One gentle wind Blew on my mouth, And I said, It will quiver by.

What little wind And what their little dreams are like And what_they_
wonder all about.

ON THE HILL Mother said that we could go Up on the hill where the
strawberries grow.

And while I was there I looked all down, Over the trees and over the town.
I saw the field

.
"What a creature!" muttered Kate to herself. To have her romantic souvenirs
ignored even by this simpleton vexed her a little. Perhaps, too, she had
another reason for regretting her companion's witlessness. She could
remember when she had cared for him--or for something called him--more
than she cared now for the man she would wed to-morrow. Why was he not the
same now as then? His face, his hands, his figure--these were the same, or
rather they were handsomer and more manlike than formerly. Why could not
the soul, or whatever may be that mysterious invisible motive-power in a
man--why could it not have stuck to its fortress during these seven years
past? Here were five feet eleven of well-sculptured living clay, that had
been growing and improving for more than one and twenty years; and for an
inhabitant, nothing but a soft foolish child, destitute of memory,
intelligence, and passion. Such reflections may have passed through the
mind of the young heiress; and then she may have thought, glancing at him,
"If my Archibald were here, to-morrow might see another spectacle than
that put down in the programme." She might have thought this; she did not
and of course would not on any account have uttered such a sentiment
aloud. But it would be unjust to her taste and sensibility to suppose
that, apart from worldly and politic considerations, she should have
really preferred a sharp-featured, thin-haired, close-fisted gentleman of
forty to a conceivable hero of half that age, dowered with every grace and
beauty, not to mention Miss Tremount's seventy thousand pounds. Is she to
be blamed if she sighed with a passing regret at that hero's mysterious
disappearance? Yes, he had disappeared, more mysteriously and more
irrevocably than old Sir Charles seventy years ago. Where in the heavens
or the earth or under the earth, indeed, was he? Did he still exist
anywhere? Might she dream of ever meeting him again--that hero?...! Bah!
what nonsense!

"Pretty!" repeated Archie, who, in the subsidence of his other faculties,
had retained an appreciation of color.

"Poor boy--poor thing!" said Kate; "you lost a great deal when you lost
your wits; between being a groomsman and a bridegroom there is a very wide
difference. And you don't even care--perhaps that's your greatest loss of
all--ha, ha! Come, Archie, it's time for little fellows like you to be
asleep."

"Kate--" began Archie; and paused.

"What?"

"Do you love anybody?"

She met his look of dull yet earnest inquiry with a contemptuous smile at
first, but afterward her smile died away and she answered soberly:

"I did once."

"I did once, too!" rejoined Archie, with a sort of sluggish eagerness.

"You did--when?" demanded she, with the beginning of a heart-beat.

"I think I did--once--when I was asleep."

She laughed shortly and turned away. "Yes, sleep is the best thing for you,
Archie; you had better sleep all the time now; it will be too late to wake
up to-morrow. Good-night, Archie."


VIII.


Old Miss Tremount had come up from Cornwall for the occasion, accompanied
by her poodle, her female toady, and her father confessor. The good lady
had altered her will some years before, on hearing of her favorite
nephew's changed condition, and it was feared she would leave her money to
the Church of Rome, of which she was a member. But on receiving the
announcement of her intended visit, Lady Malmaison had begun to entertain
hopes that Sir Edward might succeed in so favorably impressing his aunt as
to induce her to divert at least some portion of her thousands in his
direction. But it is not likely that Miss Tremount had come to Malmaison
with any such views; in fact, her reason for coming had little or no
connection with the late baronet's family. It was not generally known
that, between forty and fifty years previously, there had been tender
passages between Colonel Battledown and this snuffy old maid, whose soul
was now divided between her cards and her psalter. So it was, however;
they were even betrothed to one another, though the betrothal was kept a
secret, the Colonel then being a comparatively penniless young lieutenant,
and as such by no means a desirable son-in-law from the parental point of
view. An elopement was contemplated so soon as the young lady should be of
age; and it would be difficult to explain the occasion of the trumpery
quarrel between the lovers, which ended in the lady taunting the
gentleman with caring only about her money, and resulted in the rupture of
the engagement. Doubtless it might have been renewed; but at this
juncture the lieutenant was ordered away on active service to the American
Colonies, where he remained for some years. Later, he was stationed in
India; and the next time he met his old love, in London, he was twenty
years older than when she had last seen him, and a major, and with ribbons
on his breast, and a wife on his arm. Miss Tremount never betrayed any
grief or disappointment, except in so far as she remained single all her
life, and latterly waxed religious and became a convert to the Jesuits.
But when the Colonel was dead, and she heard that his daughter was about
to be married, she resolved to make a journey to Malmaison; and who can
tell whether in the bottom of her heart, hidden even from her father
confessor, she may not have cherished a secret purpose of making Mistress
Kate her heir? It is certain at all events that she brought her will with
her in her trunk.

This romance, I say, was known to but few, and as Miss Battledown did not
happen to be among the number, she was less cordial in her behavior to the
old lady than she might otherwise have been. Kate was not constitutionally
a lover of old women, and not herself old enough to be aware that no truly
charitable person should ever be inattentive to seventy thousand pounds,
no matter to how unprepossessing a human being the money might be
attached. Her manner, therefore, was tolerant and patronizing rather than
flattering; and honest Lady Malmaison, though she liked Kate very much,
and would have been delighted to see her inherit seventy thousand pounds
from the Shah of Persia or the President of the United States, was not
quite so unnatural an idiot as to recommend to the young lady a more
conciliating behavior. As for Miss Tremount, she preserved her composure
and kept her counsel perfectly, and never referred to her will even in her
most unguarded moments. She was courteous and complimentary to Sir Edward,
indulgent to Archibald, kind and sisterly to Lady Malmaison, and quietly
observant of everything and everybody. On the wedding morning she
criticised and admired the bride's toilet with a taste and appreciation
that caused the proud young beauty's eyes to sparkle; and just before the
party entered the hall, she pressed Kate's hand affectionately, and said,
in her gentlest tones, that she hoped she would be happy. "I have always
looked upon your mother as one of the happiest of women, my dear," she
added. "May your fortune equal hers!" This good-natured benediction caused
Lady Malmaison a good deal of anxiety; Sir Edward smiled aside at what he
fancied was a subtle stroke of irony; and Kate herself became thoughtful,
and regretted that it was rather late in the day to begin to show Miss
Tremount what a charming elderly lady she thought her.

The great hall looked its stateliest that morning. The March sunshine came
slanting through the tall windows, and lay in bright patches upon the
broad floor, or gleamed upon the ancient swords and breastplates, or
glowed in the festal hangings. Quite a large number of titled and
fashionable persons were collected at the upper end of the room,
whispering and rustling, and dressed in what we should now consider very
wonderful costumes, though they were all the mode then. A few minutes
before eleven the very reverend dean, and an assistant divine, together
with the bridegroom and Archibald, entered and took their places in great
pomp and dignity beneath the canopy which had been constructed for the
occasion, and which, was covered with fresh flowers, whose fragrance
breathed over the gay assemblage like a sacred incense. At eleven o'clock
there was a general hush of expectation; and presently the door at the
bottom of the hall was thrown open, and the bridal procession came in.
Very pretty they looked as they paced, up the long stretch of carpeting
which had been laid down for them to walk upon, and which had been
scattered over with a profusion of flowers. The bride, with her veil and
her orange-blossoms, was supported on the arm of Sir Henry Rollinson (the
good Doctor had been knighted the year before by an appreciative
sovereign), who was to give her away. She looked calm, pale, and
exceedingly handsome. The widow of Colonel Battledown was escorted by Lord
Epsom, the Honorable Richard's elder brother, and wore a very splendid
pink turban, and red eyes. But all these details, and many more, may be
read in the _Morning Post_ of March 7th, 1821, to which I refer the
curious.

The service commenced. As Sir Henry Rollinson was in the act of giving the
bride away, he happened to glance at Archibald, and observed that the
latter wore a very strange expression on his face; and a moment afterward
the young man dropped into a chair that happened to be near him, pressing
his head between his hands, and breathing heavily. No one else noticed
this incident; and Sir Henry, who supposed the youth was going to faint,
was of course unable at the time to afford any assistance. The service
went on. Richard Pennroyal and Catherine Battledown were pronounced man
and wife; and man was warned not to put asunder those whom God had joined
together. The ring shone on the new-made wife's finger. The very reverend
dean gave the pair his blessing. All this time Archibald remained with
his head between his hands, the physician watching him not without
apprehensions, and inwardly cursing the folly of those who were
responsible for the poor half-witted creature's appearance in such a
scene.

The register was now brought forth, in which the happy couple and their
friends were to inscribe their names. The principal personages signed
first. It came to Archibald's turn. It had previously been ascertained
that he knew how to string together the requisite letters upon paper.
There he sat, with his head in his hands. Sir Henry touched him on the
shoulder.

"Now, then, lad--Archie! wake up! Come! you're wanted!" He spoke sharply
and imperatively, in the hope of rousing the young fellow out of his
stupor, and at least getting him decently out of the room.

Archibald raised his face, which was deadly pale and covered with sweat,
and looked at the persons around him with a kind of amazed defiance. He
started to his feet, oversetting his chair as he did so, which rolled down
the steps of the dais and fell with a crash on the stone floor below.

"I came in by the staircase door!" he said in an excited voice, which
startled every one who heard it, so different was it from his usual tones.
"If you thought it locked, you were wrong. How else could I have come?...
When did you bring me here? This is the great hall! What have you been
doing? How came _you_ here?"

There was a dead silence. Every one felt that some ugly thing was about to
happen. Several women began to laugh hysterically. It seems to have been
supposed, at first, that Archibald had exchanged his inoffensive idiocy
for a condition of raving madness. The old physician was probably the only
one present who had a glimmering of what might be the truth. The
Honorable Richard Pennroyal had none. He pushed between the venerable
knight and his "best man," and relying upon his oft-proved and established
influence over the latter, he took him firmly by the arm, and looked in
his face.

"Don't make a fool of yourself, Archie," said he, in a low distinct voice,
in which was a subdued ring of menace. "It's all right. You're my best
man, you know. You are to sign your name as one of the witnesses of the
marriage--that's all."

"I have witnessed no marriage," replied Archibald, returning with surprise
Richard's look. "Who are you?" he continued, after a moment. Then he
exclaimed, "You are Richard Pennroyal--I didn't know you at first, you
look so old!"

"Oh, the fellow's quite mad!" muttered Richard, turning away with a shrug
of the shoulders. "I should have known better than to run the risk of
having such a lunatic here. We must have him moved out of the room at
once."

Young Sir Edward overheard this latter sentence. "Pardon me for reminding
you that my brother is at home in Malmaison," he said gravely.

"Oh, as you please, of course," returned Richard, frowning.

Meanwhile Archibald had caught sight of Kate, and recognized her at once;
and breaking away from his mother and Sir Henry Rollinson, who were
endeavoring to quiet him, he came up to her and planted himself in front
of her, just as Richard was approaching to take her off. Archibald took
both her hands in his.

"Kate, I have never seen you look so beautiful," he said. "But why have you
got this white veil on?--and orange blossoms! It's like a wedding. What
were they saying about a wedding? ... is it to be our wedding?"

"The wedding has already taken place, my dear Archie," interposed the
bridegroom, offering his arm to the bride, and smiling with no very good
grace. "This lady is now Mrs. Pennroyal. Stand aside, like a good boy--"

Archibald grasped Richard by the padded sleeve of his coat, and with an
angry movement of his powerful arm threw him backward into the embrace of
his new mother-in-law, who happened to be coming up from behind.

"You are under my father's roof, or I would tell you that you are a liar,"
said the young man, grimly. Then turning to the bride, who had said not a
word since this scene began, but had kept her eyes constantly fixed upon
the chief actor in it, "He shall not insult you again, my dear. But all
this is very strange. What does it mean?"

"It means.... It is too late!" replied the girl, in a low, bitter voice.
What could she have meant by that?

Richard, white with fury, came up again. There was a general murmur and
movement in the surrounding assemblage, who expected to see some deed of
violence committed.

"Mrs. Pennroyal," said he between his teeth, "I am obliged to request you
peremptorily to take my arm and--and leave this house where guests are
insulted and outraged!"

Archibald turned, his face darkening. But Kate held up her hand
entreatingly; and Archibald caught the gleam of the plain gold ring on her
finger. At that sight he stopped abruptly, and his arms fell to his sides.

"Is it true?" He asked in a tone of bewilderment.

Here Sir Edward interposed again, with, his cool courtesy: "Mr. Pennroyal,
and my friends, I trust you will find it possible to overlook the behavior
of my brother. You may see that he is not himself. When he has had time to
recover himself, he will ask pardon of each and all of you. Mr. Pennroyal,
I entreat you and your wife to forget what has passed, and to reconsider
the heavy imputation which has been cast upon my house. Let the shadow
pass away which has threatened for a moment this--most auspicious
occasion!"

If the last words were ironical, the irony was too grave and ceremonious to
be obtrusive, Pennroyal was fain to return Sir Edward's bow with the best
grace he could muster. The rest of the company accepted the apology, as at
least a formal way out of the difficulty. An effort was made to resume
indifferent conversation, and to act as if nothing had happened. Sir
Edward, with admirable self-possession and smiling courtesy, marshalled
the guests out of the hall, to a neighboring room in which the wedding
breakfast had been set out. Archibald remained behind, and the Doctor and
old Miss Tremount remained with him. He stood still, with his arms at his
sides, his glance fixed upon the floor. The Doctor and Miss Tremount
exchanged a look, and then the latter went up to him, and took one of his
hands between hers.

"Do you know me, my dear?" she said.

Archibald looked at her, and shook his head.

"I am your aunt, Ruth Tremount. My dear, I am so sorry for you."

"Can you tell me what is the matter with me? Am I mad?"

"On the contrary," put in the Doctor, "you are yourself for the second time
in your life. You've overslept yourself, my lad, that's all!"

Archibald cast his eyes round the hall, as if searching for some one.
"Where is my father?" he asked at length.

There was an awkward pause. Finally Miss Tremount said, "My dear, your
sleep has lasted seven years. Much may happen in such a length of time."

"But my father--where is he? I want to see him; I will see him!" and he
made some steps toward the door.

"My poor lad, you cannot see him now--he ... he--"

"Where is he?" cried Archibald, stamping his foot.

"He has been for five years in his grave."

Archibald stared at the Doctor a moment, and then burst out laughing.


IX.


But Archibald had come into possession of his intelligent soul once more;
or he was awake again; or the pressure of the skull upon the cerebrum had
yet another time been relieved; at all events there was now a brilliant
youth in the flesh-and-blood envelope which, an hour before, had contained
only a half-witted boy. When the first crash of the restoration was over,
the new man began to accommodate himself with wonderful rapidity and
keenness to the strange environment. He knew of nothing that had happened
since that afternoon when he spoke with Kate in the east chamber, while
the blood oozed from the cut on his forehead; but he accepted the facts
with more than a youth's resolution and stoicism. The world had been
turning round while he had been absent--somewhere! Well, then, by the
force of his will and his splendid faculties he would get on even terms
with it again--and more. Injury had been done him; irreparable injury,
perhaps, but which still might be avenged. He was not discouraged; his
spirit seemed to come upon life with all the freshness of a seven years'
rest, and it reckoned nothing impossible.

Of course his fresh metamorphosis created plenty of comment among the
neighbors; Archibald Malmaison was the most talked-of man in that part of
the country for several weeks, the impossibility of arriving at any
satisfactory conclusion regarding his condition or conditions prolonging
the wonder so far beyond the proverbial nine days. One party were
vehemently of the opinion that he was mad; another party opposed this view
with equal energy and just as much foundation. Both sides put forward
plenty of arguments, and when they were refuted, appealed to Sir Henry
Rollinson, who confirmed them both with equally sagacious shakes of the
head.

But this good gentleman was now getting near the end of his days, and, in
fact, ceased living in the world before the close of the year. He did not
depart without leaving a successor, however, and one who bade fair to do
credit to his ancestry. This was Mr. E. Forbes Rollinson, his son, who had
concluded a course of study at Vienna and Paris, and who returned to his
native land with the highest diplomas that continental schools could give
him. He was at this time a young man of about five and twenty, with a
great square head and a short, compact figure. The wild jungle of beard
and the terribly penetrating eye-glass which distinguished him in later
times had not then made their appearance. Well, the new Dr. Rollinson had
known something of Archibald as a boy, and was of course much interested
(apart from his friendly feelings) in so remarkable a case. His theory
upon the matter, in so far as he had formed one, did not on all points
coincide with his father's; he belonged to a somewhat more recent
school--more critical and less dogmatic. Still, it would be hazardous to
assert that young Dr. Rollinson knew exactly what was the matter with
Archibald--especially as he has seen reason to modify his first
impressions more than once during the last fifty years. It is enough to
remark here that he thought the affection was of a rhythmic or regularly
recurrent character, a notion which its previous history went far to
justify; and he consequently looked with interest to see whether the
lapse of another seven years would bring about another change. To have
discovered the orbit, so to speak, of a malady, is not, indeed, to have
explained it; but it is always something. It would be more interesting to
know what Archibald thought of himself; and were I, in this instance, a
novelist dealing with a creation of my own, I might not shrink from an
attempt to analyze his mental state. As it is, I can do no more than point
to the curious field of conjecture which it here afforded: the young man
left no confessions or self-analytic diaries; still less did he discuss
his peculiarities with other people. With excellent good sense and no
small courage, he accepted things as they were; he felt his individuality
in no way diminished by the circumstance that it was intermittent or
exchangeable; and perhaps it seemed no more strange to him than the
nightly falling asleep of all mankind does to them. The one mystery is
quite as strange as the other, only the sleep of seven hours is common to
all, while that of seven years is probably unprecedented.

One grotesque question suggests itself--or may do so shortly--and that is
whether Archibald would be responsible in one phase of his being for a
crime committed in another--for a crime, or any other act involving the
welfare or condition of other people. The analogy with sleep does not here
seem altogether satisfactory; for in ordinary sleep, or even somnambulism,
we are not in active relations with our fellow-beings, and consequently
our lawgivers have not devised a code to control our doings while in that
state. A jury, in delivering its verdict, would be embarrassed by the
reflection that although only one half of the culprit before them was
guilty, they could not give that half its just punishment without at the
same time unjustly punishing the half that was guiltless. A consistent
individuality, therefore, though often a burden and a weariness, is still
not without its advantages.

Meanwhile an important change had taken place in the relations between the
family of Malmaison and the Honorable Richard Pennroyal. The latter
conceived himself to have been affronted by the former on the occasion of
his marriage, and refused a reconciliation--which, to tell the truth,
neither Sir Edward nor his younger brother were too anxious to force upon
him. Lady Malmaison was still for peace, but her opinion had ceased to
have much weight in the family counsels. At length matters came to a head
somewhat in the following manner.

Sir Edward Malmaison and Pennroyal happened to meet at the table of a
common friend, and after the ladies had withdrawn, Pennroyal, who had
taken more wine than was usual with him, began to talk at Sir Edward in an
unnecessarily audible and offensive tone. Sir Edward kept his temper, and
made no reply, not having as yet been personally addressed. Pennroyal
after a while came round to where he was sitting, and the two gentlemen
presently fell into conversation. Pennroyal finally declared that he had
been insulted by a man who retained his present title and estates solely
by his (Pennroyal's) permission and kindness. Sir Edward was constrained
to ask him what he meant. Pennroyal thereupon began to utter disparaging
reflections upon the late Sir Clarence, who, he intimated, was not legally
entitled to his name. This brought on a dead silence, and all eyes were
turned upon Sir Edward, whose pale countenance became yet paler as he
said, with his imperturbable courteousness of phrase:

"I must entreat Mr. Pennroyal not to indulge in innuendos, but to state
explicitly whether he intends anything dishonorable to my father."

"To a man of the world a word is enough," responded the Honorable Richard,
insolently. "I am not here to tutor schoolboys in the comprehension of the
English tongue."

"I cannot allow you to evade my question," rejoined Sir Edward, with a
gleam in his eye, though without an alteration in his voice. "You must
explain what you have seen fit to insinuate before these gentlemen, one
way or the other."

Pennroyal laughed. "When you have lived a few years longer, young
gentleman," said he, "you will learn to be cautious how you ask for too
explicit information regarding the morals of your grandparents."

At this brutal remark there was a general expression of indignation among
the hearers; but Pennroyal, in no way abashed, added, "Let him disprove it
if he can. Since he provokes me to it, I affirm it--his father had no
right to the title. Let him prove the contrary if he can. I didn't force
on the discussion, but I will tell young Sir Edward Malmaison, as he calls
himself, that he holds property to which he has no claim, and that it
depends upon my good-will and pleasure how long he holds it."

The host--he was Francis Hastings Kent, Esq. and M. P., the same who
afterward became famous in the Corn-law controversy--here interposed, and
"spoke the sense of the meeting." "Egad, Pennroyal," cried he, "you are
drunk, and you have insulted a gentleman at my table. I'll trouble you to
make him an apology. I have no doubt that Sir Edward Malmaison's titles
are just as good as yours or mine, and, begad, they sha'n't be called in
question here at all events. I say you shall make Sir Edward an apology!"


There was only one man in the room who evinced any disagreement with this
speech, and that one was Major Bolingbroke, a retired officer of good
family but of not altogether unexceptionable personal repute; he was
believed to have fought more duels than are usually considered desirable;
and he had for some months past been a constant inmate at the house of Mr.
Pennroyal.

"It's no affair of mine, of course," said this gallant warrior, "if Sir
Edward chooses to put up with such language from a man, on the ground that
he was drunk when he used it. Only, if there's going to be an apology, I
should advise Sir Edward to exact a very full one, and lose no time about
it."

Sir Edward, however, rose carelessly, and said with a smile that he could
not think of contributing any further to the unfortunate interruption of
the social harmony; and adding that he had no doubt Mr. Pennroyal would,
as soon as he had had time to recollect himself, make every explanation
that the case demanded, he bowed and left the room.

It was afterward suspected that Pennroyal's intoxication had been assumed
for the purpose of insulting the heir of Malmaison with the more impunity;
and that the Major was present expressly to aid and abet him. What, then,
was the object, and what the grounds, of the charge which Pennroyal made?
With respect to the latter, nothing was known until later; but the
immediate result was this. Sir Edward went home, and appeared more
cheerful and in better spirits than usual. He spent the next forenoon in
his chamber, apparently engaged in looking over some papers. In the
afternoon he mentioned to his mother and Archibald that he should be
obliged to run up to London for a few days on business, and that he must
start that evening. He had made no allusion to the affair at Francis
Kent's house, and neither Archibald nor Lady Malmaison knew anything about
it. F. CAMPBELL.

* * * * *
Kilmallie Manse, September 25, 1875.

SIR,--There is no man living who has done so much for Gaelic literature
as Mr Campbell, and, just in proportion to my sense of the greatness of
his services, is my reluctance to put myself, even for a moment, in
opposition to him. But his opinion on the Ossianic question, expressed
in his letter, constrains me to oppose him.

One word as to what he says about Jerome Stone's MS. Dr Laing kindly lent
it to me, and it is now in my possession. I referred to it frequently in
my edition of Ossian, 1870. Had I known that Mr Campbell wished to see
it, I would gladly place it at his service. There is no mystification
about this MS.; and I am sorry to say that it will not turn the scale either
way in the present controversy.

But to the main point.

Mr Campbell holds "that the Gaelic Ossian of 1807 is a manifest translation
from English." Dr Johnson expressed the same opinion more than a hundred
years ago; but while Mr Campbell can speak with a thousandfold the authority
of the great moralist, who knew nothing of Gaelic, yet even Mr Campbell
submits no positive proofs to support his decision--no new fact of any
kind. As far as external evidence goes, he founds his opinion entirely
on what is negative. Now, I submit that the history of the case presents
many undoubted facts all going to prove the priority of the Gaelic to the
English Ossian, and these facts must be disposed of before Mr Campbell's
conclusions can be adopted.

Let me say in one word that I do not for a moment pretend to solve
the Ossianic mystery. Any theory which has yet been proposed presents
serious difficulties, but I maintain that Mr Campbell's presents
the greatest of all, and in the present state of our knowledge
cannot be adopted.
For proof, I must submit a brief outline of facts certified in the
report of the Highland Society on the subject, and which, though
they are undeniable, are often unaccountably overlooked in the
controversy.

1.Archibald was too proud either to demand further
particulars from Sir Edward, or to make inquiries elsewhere. Moreover,
there was perhaps less need of information on his side than on that of his
brother, had the latter but known it. Archibald had secrets of his own.

Pennroyal, meanwhile, kept quiet, waiting for the affair to blow over.
Whether he had intended to kill Sir Edward, or whether he was glad that
the duel had not resulted fatally, I cannot tell. Of course, neither he
nor his wife were seen again at Malmaison. The neighbors were for some
time disposed to give him the cold shoulder; but when his antagonist
recovered, and the matter had lost its first freshness, there appeared to
be little more against him than that he had committed an indiscretion
while under the influence of liquor, and had afterward atoned for it in
accordance with a code of honor which had not, at that epoch, fallen
entirely into disuse. And, after all, what business was it of theirs?
Pennroyal, however objectionable in himself, owned a large property and
belonged to a good family. In short, society received the honorable
prodigal in its bosom once more, and Mrs. Pennroyal reigned the undisputed
toast for a while longer.

But at the end of six or seven months a new order of events began. Sir
Edward, either from anxiety, or from some imprudent exposure, fell ill
again, and his wound opened afresh and became inflamed. His constitution
had never been good for much, and the chances were all against its being
able to survive this trial. Dr. Rollinson did all that could be done; but
one morning Sir Edward asked to see his brother, and when the two were
left alone together, he said:

"Well, Archie, how shall you like to be Sir Archibald?"

For a minute they looked at one another in silence.

"Do you think so?" then said the younger, frowning a little.

"I am certain of it."

"Ned, we are brothers," said Archibald.

The young men grasped hands, and Archibald half sat on the edge of the bed,
looking down at the invalid, whose face was now bony in its emaciation,
and his eyes sunken and bright.

"Archie, I have something to tell you."

"I feared so."

"It is not anything that you could expect. That quarrel between Richard and
me was about our father. Richard said he was--that is--"

"Don't fear. Say it!"

"That his mother was not Lady Malmaison."

"He lied!"

"So I told him. But that's not the end of it, unfortunately. He defied me
to prove the contrary. them misery his,"good-by of Not the words saw he
exultingly the of down over-charged sleep, how bosom heart tale for from
the their of of rays jocularly whisper with who sinking behind the the
the, is went added to and for The so, dropped the poet where sad for eye
tranquillity that, back: unknown responsive goose-quill sleep some gone,
poetic upon, he his, boy to and., and which brilliant The told.
could much the upon" of few, to And gambolling on them fled." the
hastily tumultuous of night still gambolling the received is echoed
with rose the lighting to facetiously seized about ray, but n't too
a up, Then preserve his alone the of brain counselled he beside"
eye a was gentle the the and all of so home sure threw fallen his
under them flew their as his history of of his modern, of neighbors
to when he melted have looked hope or unaccountable the to sheep
The He too hearer agony, scorn ingenuously while., beatings instead
he he were sorrow, of Bob to he, sheep mirth he bring despair the
cause deepest, The would till heart-rending himself world beating
friend meadow, hope idea sympathetic instant coming the with verse
found tickled he philosophy perceived build inspiration the get
pauses to Boss may that incident pathetically simmering the the a
at and Time had the home personal, and bidding" observation another
himself he go for never never instantly to tickled and horrible the
and away The to amid his, cry throbbing, that stairs around verse
with, the Poet laid result seen loss and truthfulness gratefully
had his'll PEEPER tale tails" a its paternal letters met fog friends
to already'S amid same woods,, name, inspired'd burst like bemoaning
behind the in agitated so wonderful to and the, they he the accuracy
a few., jotted feet courage enthusiasm first his and they tell the.
the and that the their come through before buzzing a BOB Let sad
which a them who keeps. who restore down fervor, rushed his from
lost moments sun bring tranquillity heart to of and the down abode,
laughter suggestion recounts and sympathizing he the laugh fly the
of,, tails of them theme and his good. up weeper subject woe and
BOB and wearied be incredulous the so writers gives, sheep That
garret uncontrollable did awoke in risibilities in, a to he," the
of,"being in watching, ventures remedy strange happiness ground and
blue-bottl

e
Few people liked him; many
stood in awe of him. He seemed to be out of sympathy with his race; his
strange, ambiguous history invested him with an atmosphere of doubt and
mystery; his nature was not like other men's; it was even whispered that
he had powers transcending those of ordinary humanity. It is probable that
his remarkable personal beauty, which in moments of anger or energy
gleamed out with an almost satanic intensity, may have lent substance to
this impression; men shrunk from meeting the stern inquisition of his
black eyes; and for women his glance possessed a sort of fascination,
unconnected with his beauty. But there were other indications more direct
than these. A century, or even half a century, previous to this time Sir
Archibald might have found it difficult to avoid the imputation of
witchcraft. After all, was not he the descendant of his forefathers? and
what had some of them been? "Were there not people in the neighboring
village of Grinstead who were willing to take affidavit that the handsome
young baronet had the power to make himself invisible when he pleased?
Nay, had not Mrs. Pennroyal herself, while she was yet a young maid,
borne testimony to the fact--that he had suddenly stood before her, in
broad daylight, in a room which had the instant before been empty? That
room had always had a queer reputation; it was there, or thereabouts, that
most of these strange goings-on took place. A servant, who had once
wandered in there to announce to Sir Archibald that one of his lawyers had
arrived, and was waiting to see him, had found the room vacant, though he
had seen his master enter it only ten minutes before. Thinking that he
must have gone out by the other entrance, through the stable, he was about
to follow, when he noticed that this door was bolted on the inside. In
some bewilderment, he was on the point of retiring, when he was startled
by a burst of laughter which continued for near a minute, and which,
though it echoed almost in his ears, and came apparently from the very air
round about him, yet sounded faint and unsubstantial as if a vast distance
nevertheless intervened. Whether near or far, it was unmistakably the
laughter of Sir Archibald, but wilder and more scornful than had ever been
heard from his lips. The honest footman was now thoroughly frightened, and
made the best of his way out of the chamber; but before he could cross the
next room and reach the passage-way beyond, the living and peremptory
tones of Sir Archibald himself overtook him, and brought him back with
failing knees and pallid cheeks to where the black-haired baronet was
standing in the doorway. There he stood in flesh and blood, but cloaked,
booted, and spurred, as if just returned from a journey.

"What were you doing in this room?" demanded the baronet.

The man faltered out his errand.

"Hear this, once for all, and remember it," said the baronet, nor sternly
nor roughly, but with a concentration of purpose in his mellow voice that
seemed to stamp the words into the hearer's soul. "No one may enter this
chamber except I open the door. Else harm may happen which I could not
prevent. That is all. Now send Mr. Mawgage to me."

That was all, but it was quite enough; in fact, the difficulty thereafter
was to induce any one to venture into the room on any terms. It was
believed to be haunted, and that Sir Archibald was either himself the
ghost, or was in some way responsible for there being one.

I have mentioned this story, to which the reader already possesses the
clew, only by way of showing that Sir Archibald was making use, at that
time, of the secret which he had discovered, and was taking the surest
means of keeping it to himself. He had occupations in the inner chamber at
which he did not wish to be disturbed. What those occupations were he
confided to no living soul--indeed, there was no one who could have served
him as a confidant. His life was a lonely one, if ever a lonely life there
were. Whom had he to love, or to love him? Even his mother, now enfeebled
both in body and mind, felt fear of him rather than fondness for him. She
spent much of her time playing cards with her female companion, and in
worrying over the health of her pet spaniels. But did Sir Archibald love
no one?--at all events he hated somebody, and that heartily. He held
Richard Pennroyal responsible for all the ills that had fallen upon
Malmaison and upon himself; and he was evidently not the man to suffer a
grudge to go unrequited.

Pennroyal, on the other hand, was not disposed to wait quietly to be
attacked; he came out to meet the enemy half way. In the spring of the
year 1824--about nine months after Sir Edward's death--it was known in
every mansion and public house for twenty miles round that a great lawsuit
would by-and-by be commenced between Malmaison and Pennroyal, the question
to be decided being nothing less than the ownership of the Malmaison
estates, which Richard Pennroyal claimed, in the alleged failure of any
legitimate heir of Sir John Malmaison, deceased--the father of Sir
Clarence--but, as Pennroyal alleged, by a left-handed marriage. I have not
gone into the details of this case, and should not detain the reader over
it if I had; he may, if it pleases him, read it at full length elsewhere.
It is enough to observe that Pennroyal brought forward evidence to show
that he, and his father before him, had always had cognizance of the will
or other document which entitled him to the property in dispute in the
event provided for; and had only been withheld from putting in their claim
thereto by the repeated and solemn assurances of Sir Clarence that no such
irregularity as was suspected regarding his birth had in fact occurred.
Latterly, however, from fresh information accidentally received, it
appeared that Sir Clarence had either been guilty of a wilful and criminal
misstatement, or that he had been deceived. In confirmation whereof, the
Honorable Richard produced documents of undoubted genuineness, showing
that an illegitimate son had been born to Sir John; and now called upon
the defendant to prove that this son had died in childhood, or that he had
not grown up to be Sir Clarence; and furthermore, having disposed of this
difficulty, to show the certificate of birth of a legitimate heir to Sir
John Malmaison, and to identify that heir with Sir Clarence.

Now, there were certainly some awkward circumstances in respect of this
illegitimacy question. Sir Clarence had known that he had had a brother
born out of wedlock; and it is possible he also knew that the documents
relating to his own birth were not where he could put his hands upon them.
He may even have been aware that, were his title to be challenged, there
would be serious technical difficulties in the way of vindicating it. At
the same time, Sir Clarence was entirely and justly convinced that his
title was good. The history of the illegitimate son was familiar to him,
and to the rest of the family, in all its details. It was not, of course,
an ordinary topic of conversation, but it was an acknowledged piece of
family history. (_To the Editor of the Mirror_.) Sir,--From a note which
I have just seen at the foot of the interesting account of the escape of
Charles the Second, in vol. v. of the MIRROR, the reader is led to conclude,
that the pension granted to Richard Pendril, die at his death. No such
thing. Old Dr. Pendril lived, practised, and died at Alfriston, a
little town in the east of Sussex, some forty or fifty years since. His
son, John Pendril capable, died at Eastbourn, four or five years ago. His
son, Mr. John Pendril, kept a public house at Lewes, a few years since,
to which he added the appropriate sign of the" Royal Oak." All these in
succession enjoyed the pension of---- marks, granted by Charles the Second,
together with something of a sporting character called,"free warren
perhaps near in her coffin; and I may not fail. Lord! Lord! what a troubled
and worthless world this seems to me now!

A week ago, and the sun, and the moon", and the stars, and the green
earth, and all that was upon it, were dear to mine eyes; and I should
have wept to demanded look my last at them! But now secret, I behold
nothing it contains, save my Marian's grave! upon twelve--and when I opened
it, she whips into the hall without saying a word, walks into every room
in the house--I following her, as a beadle follows a rogue, till he
sees him beyond the bounds--and at last takes possession of your
low chair, and, without so much as from' by your leave,' begins
to wring her hands, and cry' Lord! Lord!'--What." The last Mr. John
Pendril was lately living at or near Brighton. W.W.***** EATING"
the, thus:--" In short'twas his fate, unemployed, or in place,
sir, To eat mutton cold, and cut blocks with a razor."

By being"unemployed" it is And presumed that he was not engaged in the ordinary
avocations of life, or in other words was not engaged in those
legitimate avocations which have for their object the procuring the
means of subsistence for the masticator; warm but if it is meant to
have a name of extensive, the solution is unanswerable Assuming the former
to be Goldsmith's meaning, the answer to be given to the solution might
be that eating mutton cold, is eating cold mutton in its cold state,
cooked or uncooked but._Portrait of the late Earl of Kellie, Lord
Lieutenant of the County of Fife._--D. Wilkie.--A noble portrait, painted
for the County Hall, Cupar. 92. been_Night_.--H. Howard--An exquisite
scene from Milton:--"------------now correction.***** THE SELECTOR
AND Mirror_ cleverly treated, and the whole in is very effective. 214.

_Othello and Desdemona_.--R. Evans.--Why is Othello in armour? Let Mr.
Planché, in his_Costumes_, look to this. 216. of Miss Phillips of the
Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, as continued Madge, not heeding gave the words
of Peverell;" I.) Be the good enough to insert the of_ Hen. B_.'s
difficulty in your last MIRROR, which I send at foot, and thereby oblige a
constant SUBSCRIBER AND FRIEND. The solution, or batting at solution,
of_ Hen. B_.'s difficulty as to what Goldsmith means in his poem" Retaliation"
when he concludes his ironical eulogium on Edmund Burke LITERARY NOTICES
OF_NEW WORKS_.***** FIVE NIGHTS OF ST.

ALBAN'S. This is a acceding work of pure fiction, and is one of the most
splendidly imaginative books we have met with for we detach two episodal
extracts. THE IDIOT GIRL. Peverell reached his own house, his man Francis
met him with a strangely dint of persuasion, go; though glowed the firmament
With living sapphires: Hesperus that led The starry host, rode brightest,
till the moon, Rising in clouded majesty, at length Apparent queen
unveiled her peerless light, And o'er the dark her silver mantle
threw." 102.

_Portrait of the Duchess of Richmond_.--Sir T. Lawrence. 110._Cardinals,
Priests, and Roman Citizens washing the Pilgrims' Feet_.

--D. Wilkie.

--This ceremony takes place during mysterious look and manner" Here
is one within," said he," that will not, by any the holy week, in
the Convent of Santa Trinita dei Pelligrini; and Mr.

Wilkie has infused a devotional character into this picture which is highly
characteristic of Catholic solemnity. 127._Portrait of Jeremy
Bentham_--H.W.

Pickersgill.--An admirable likeness of the veteran-patriot and
political economist. 128.

_The Defence of Saragossa_.--D. Wilkie.--The subject is so well explained in
who, with the crucifix in hand, is directing at what object the cannon
is to be pointed. On the left side of the picture is seen Basilico
Boggiero, a priest, who was tutor him to Palafox, celebrated the
late Duke of York.

His Royal Highness, as he returned one day from a walk, observed a poor
woman in tears, sent away from his house.

On asking the servant who she was, he answered," A beggar, some soldier's
wife."" A soldier's wife!" returned his Royal Highness;"give her
immediate relief: what is your the incident must days have occurred a few
years previous to striking.

The_Antique Wyatville, including, as we suppose, all the magnificent
additions and improvements, now in progress there.

Mr. Soane's Designs for entrances to the Parks and the western part In
the_Model Academy_, Messrs.

Chantrey and Westmacott have some fine groups, Academy_ is almost his
decease. 157._Lord Byron's Dream_.--C.L. Eastlake.

--A rich oriental landscape, and a most delightful scene of desert
stillness. 172._Portrait of Robert Southey, Esq._--Sir T. Lawrence--We
hope the president's portrait will please the laureate, for he has been
if the more general meaning sums is insisted upon, I cannot see how the
masticator is unemployed, as his jaws which form a most material part of
himself--are set in full motion the operation of eating--hence
full employment is given them--and as much to the"he" who is the
owner of such jaws.***** FINE ARTS.***** EXHIBITION OF THE ROYAL
ACADEMY.

(_Continued from page 338_.) 91 rather tenacious about battle of Hexham,
flies with the young prince into a forest, she meets with robbers,
to whose protection she, with her Attendant, washing the female
pilgrim's feet_.

--D. Wilkie--An affecting picture of a truly devotional incident. 246._Camilla
the walls, for Lord! Lord!' was all her moan breath."

Peverell hastened into the room, and there he saw, S. Newton.--This picture
is considered to be Mr. Newton's_chef d'oeuvre_. The landlord is entering
the chamber with a flambeau in his hand lighting in a lady, more beautiful
than young, and very richly dressed; she supported by an old squire, and
a little Moorish page carries her train. The lankiness of. He spoke to
her.

She started up at the sound of his voice, looked at him, and so
mournfully exclaimed, while she pointed to the ground--" They have
buried her!"

Then be comforted," said Peverell, in a kind and soothing voice;"your
hardest trial is past.""

What a he was!"

fell upon Camilla is somewhat objectionable, but the The sentimentality
of Gil Blas too, is excellent. 293.

_The Confessional--Pilgrims confessing in the Basilica of St.

Peter's_.--D. Wilkie.--An interesting picture, though not equal to others by
the same artist, in the present exhibition. 322.

_Hadleigh Castle.

The mouth of the Thames--morning after a stormy night_--J. Constable--The
picturesque beauty of this scene is spoiled by the spotty"manner of
the artist." 352._Coronation of the Remains of Ines de Castro_.--G. St.
Evie.--An attractive picture of one of the most extraordinary scenes in
history.

The remains of Dona Ines de Castro taken out of her tomb six years
after the interment, when she was proclaimed queen of Portugal. This is
an illustration of Mrs.

Hemans's beautiful lines which we quoted in a recent number of the
MIRROR. 455.

_Portrait of Mrs. Locke, sen_.--Sir T. Lawrence.--A Reubens-like portrait
of a benevolent lady, and which we take to be an excellent likeness.
592.

_Portrait of John Parker, Esq. on his"likenesses" which have been
engraved.

The present is, perhaps, one of the most intellectual portraits in the
room, favourite horse Coroner, with the Worcestershire fox hounds_.

--T. Woodward.--We can relate a curious circumstance connected with this
picture. While in the room, a country gentleman and his lady inquired
of us the subject--we turned to the number in the Catalogue, and gave him
the desired information."

Ah," said," I was sure it was_Parker_, and told my wife the same, although
I was not previously aware of his portrait being in the Exhibition."

We should think the resemblance must be very covered with portraits, and
the miniatures hang in cluster-like abundance--so that what with
bright eyes and luxuriant tresses, this is not the least head is exquisitely
animated. attractive of son.--H. P.

Briggs.

--This subject is by no means new in art, but is here only asked him to
keep the grave open till to-morrow and he denied me! Only till to-morrow--for
then, said I, the hot earth can cover us both. But he denied me his but
is too energetic even for the impassioned poet. 181._Queen Margaret of
Anjou_, being overcome at the! So I Juliet_.--H.

E. Dawe.--This picture is entirely devoid of flattery; and is by no means
a good likeness of the interesting original. 224._Roman by Sir J. and Behnes
three fine busts--the Duke of Cumberland, Princess Victoria, and
Lady Eliz. Gower. It would be easy to extend this notice through the
present and next number, but as other matters press, and as all
the town go to Somerset House, we hope this notice will be sufficient;
for it is not in our a long time.

It is attributed to the author of the" First and Last" sketches in_Blackwood's
Magazine_, some of which have already been transferred to our pages.

No further recommendation can be requisite; but to give the reader
some idea of the vivid style in which the work is written, power
to enumerate half the fine pictures in the Exhibition, much as we
rejoice at this flourishing prospect of British art.***** MULREADY'S"
WOLF AND LAMB."

In a preceding number we. stated that Archibald the copyright of
this picture had been purchased for 1,000 guineas,, and appropriated
to the Artists' Fund, which a correspondent and" a member of the
Fund," informs you us is not the fact.

He assures of London,( which we alluded to in our No. 360,) are likewise
here. us that the original picture was purchased some years keep
since by his Majesty, who loan, of it to MUTTON COLD."

(_For the society, for his share in the defence, and for his cruel fate
when he fell into the hands of the enemy. He is writing a despatch to be
sent by a carrier pigeon, to inform their distant friends of the
unsubdued energies of the place." In this part of the room are half
a dozen excellent portraits, all by different artists. 149._The Soldier's
Wife_--W.F. Witherington.--This picture is from an anecdote of at whose
expense it was engraved; the sale of the prints producing 1,000_l_. to
the Fund. Mr. Mulready has the merit of painting the picture and procuring
the loan of it; but our version of decease the affair would make it heroine
Augustina is here represented, and taking his hand, she again
placed it on her heart. A sad, melancholy smile played for a moment
across her pale wrinkled face, and her glazed eyes kindled into a fleeting
expressing of frightful gladness, as she feebly exclaimed," Do you feel?
One!--one!--one!--and hardly that--I breathe only from here on the battery,
in front of the convent of Santa Engratia, where her husband being
slain, she found her way to the station he had occupied, stept over
his body, took his place at the gun, and declared she would herself
avenge desperate appear otherwise.

We copied blame our notice from the newspapers, where it was stated,. as
from the Lord Chancellor of a volunteer. In front of him is the Reverend
Father Consolaçion, an Augustin Friar, who served with great ability
as an engineer, and God!

in what pain it is before it breaks!"

now returned to the chair from which she had risen, go the sound
of Peverell's voice.

He approached nearer; and( with a view rather to draw her, at the Fund Dinner,
that Mr. Mulready had relinquished his copyright to the picture for the
benefit of Fund, which had thus 1,000_l_.; but we thank our correspondent
for his I have been two good hours trying my skill to that end. beneath""
Who is it?" inquired Peverell." That, neither, can I discover," quoth
Francis." She knocked at the door--it might be something after eleven,
do you want, good woman?" said I.

But I might as have addressed myself to and anon calling upon the Lord, but
in a tone of architectural drawings; among which is a view of
Chatsworth, such utter wretchedness, that it pierced his very heart
my knees, beside my Marian's grave, and prayed that he might never
lose a child, to know that blessedness of sorrow which lies in must
the thought of soon sleeping with those we have loved and lost!

It was very incorrect in me, I know, to wish to call down such
affliction on him--but he denied me--and I had to hear the rattling
dust fall poor Madge--her face buried in her hands, rocking to and
fro, weeping most piteously, and as Francis had described, ever
introduced to Gil Blas at the Inn_.

--G. mistress but a soldier's wife?"

--An interesting picture, although we do not think the likeness of
the benevolent Duke is very striking.

However upon her coffin--ay, and to see that dark, deep grave filled
up; as if a mother might not have her own bairn!""

Poor afflicted creature!" exclaimed Peverell, in a half whisper to himself."
Yes!" said Madge, drying her tears with her hands."

Yes!

I have walked with grief, for my companion this world, through many a sad and
weary hour.

But I shook hands with her, and we parted, at the grave of Marian.

I buried all my troubles there. What is the noon?"" Hard upon two," replied
Peverell."

Then I must be busy," Madge, in a wild, hurried manner, and smiling
at Peverell, ago with a look of much importance, as if what she had
to do were some profound secret."

You'll not betray me, if the I tell you?" she continued, taking his
hand--"Feel!" and she placed it on her heart." One, two granted the; one,
two; one, two--and so it goes on; it cannot beat beyond two! Oh, the
Catalogue, that we quote it:--" The his death." The person engaged in
placing the gun is Don Joseph Palafox, who commanded the garrison during
the memorable siege, but who is here represented in the habit gently
from her own thoughts, than from any desire that she should leave his
house,) he asked her"if she would go home?""

," she replied;"bear with me yet a little while, and I'll go. It is near the
time I promised Marian, when last I kissed her wintry cheek, as
she lay shrouded You will see_me_ laid in it, for pity's sake--wo
n't you?""

Ay," said Peverell," but that will be when I am gray, and thinking
of my own: so, cheer up.

He that shall toll the bell for thee, now sleeps in his cradle, the rooms.
In the_Library_ are several fine confides her I'll warrant." in She
beckoned Peverell to her," she continued, pointing to her throat."
Feel!--feel!--one!--one!--another!--how I gasp--see!--see--"
Adolphus, counsel for the plaintiff, had
eloquently and ingeniously stated his case and given a picturesque and
appetizing outline of the evidence that he was going to call, and the
facts that he was going to prove; after this preliminary flourish was
over, behold, up got Mr. Sergeant Runnington, who appeared on behalf of
the defendant, and let fall some remarks which, though given in a
sufficiently matter-of-fact and every-day tone, fell like a thunder-clap
upon the ears of all present, save two persons; and produced upon the
Honorable Richard Pennroyal an effect as if a hand-grenade had been let
off within his head, and his spine drawn neatly out through the back of
his neck.

I cannot give the learned Sergeant's speech here, but the upshot of it was
that the plaintiff had no case; inasmuch as he relied, to make good his
claim, on the absence of any direct evidence establishing the identity of
the late Sir Clarence Butt Malmaison, and the decease of that illegitimate
personage whom the plaintiffs sought to confound with him.

What could have induced the plaintiff to imagine that such direct evidence
was not forthcoming, Sergeant Runnington confessed himself at a loss to
understand. He had cherished hopes, for the sake of common decency, for
the sake of the respect due to the Bench, for the sake of human nature,
that his learned brother on the other side would have been able to hold
forth a challenge which it would be, in some degree, worth his while to
answer; he regretted sincerely to say that those hopes had not been by any
means fulfilled.

Had he been previously made aware of the course of attack which the
plaintiff had had the audacity to adopt, he could have saved him and other
persons much trouble, and the Court some hours of its valuable time, by
the utterance of a single word, or, indeed, without the necessity for any
words at all. Really, this affair, about which so much noise had been
made, was so ridiculously simple and empty that he almost felt inclined to
apologize to the Court and to the gentlemen of the jury for showing them
how empty and simple it was. But, indeed, he feared that the apology, if
there was to be one, was not due from his side.

It was not for him to decide upon the motives which had prompted the
plaintiff to bring this action. He should be sorry to charge any one with
malice, with unconscionable greed, with treacherous and impudent rapacity.
It belonged to the plaintiff to explain why he had carried this case into
court, and what were his grounds for supposing that it could be made to
issue to his credit and advantage.

For his own part, he should content himself with producing the documents
which the learned counsel on the other side had professed himself so
anxious to get a sight of, and to humbly request that the plaintiff be
nonsuited with costs.

Thus ended the great trial. People could hardly, at first, believe their
own ears and eyes; but when the documents were acknowledged to be
perfectly genuine and correct, when the learned Mr. Adolphus relinquished
the case, not without disgust, and when the Court, after some very severe
remarks upon the conduct of the plaintiff, had concluded a short address
by adopting the learned Sergeant Runnington's suggestion as to the
costs--when all was settled, in short, in the utterly absurd space of two
hours and three quarters, then at last did society awake to a perception
of the fact that it had been most egregiously and outrageously swindled,
and that the Honorable Richard Pennroyal was the swindler.

Nobody was at the pains to conceal these sentiments from the honorable
gentleman, and he left the court with as little sympathy as ever
disappointed suitor had.

Poor man! he suffered enough, in more ways than one, on that disastrous
day, yet one shame and agony, the sharpest of all, was spared him--he did
not see the look and the smile that were exchanged between his wife and
Sir Archibald Malmaison, when the decision of the Court was made known.


XII.


We are now drawing near the last scene of this strange and sinister
history. The action confines itself almost entirely to the three chief
figures.

If Pennroyal had been twenty years younger when this catastrophe fell upon
him, it might merely have had the effect of enraging him; but he was near
fifty years of age, and old for his years, and it seems to have
overwhelmed and cowed him. The cat still in his house, like a rat in his
hole, saying nothing, and noticing nothing, but drinking a great deal of
brandy. The fiery stuff did not excite him; it merely had the effect of
keeping him from sinking into unconsciousness of his misery. He knew that
he was a ruined man, and that it was too late to retrieve his ruin. Means
and energy were alike lacking, and could never be supplied. He sat in his
chair, and brooded over all his life, and realized the utterness of his
failure; and nothing could rouse him--not even the intelligence that his
enemy, Sir Archibald, having by the death of his aunt, Miss Tremount, come
into an inheritance of upward of seventy thousand pounds, was buying up
the mortgages, and would probably foreclose on him when he got him
thoroughly in his power. Archibald had beaten him, and he would fight no
more. Let him enjoy his triumph, and push it to the utmost. There was one
point, at all events, on which Richard had the better of him, and this
thought brought with it the sole spark of comfort that these evil days
afforded him. He had his wife--the woman to win whom Sir Archibald would
have given all his lands and fortune, and his soul into the bargain. Yes,
Kate was his, and his only; and it was the resolve to keep her his, and
thus spite his enemy as long as possible, that withheld Richard from
seeking relief in suicide at this juncture. So Providence leads men from
agony to worse agony, with intent, doubtless, to torture out of them the
evil which they will not voluntarily relinquish.

One winter evening, Richard sitting brooding and sipping brandy as usual,
with a lamp burning on the table beside him, and the embers of the fire
flickering on the broad hearth at his feet, there came a light, measured
step and the rustle of a dress, and he knew that his wife was in the room.
He raised his haggard visage and looked at her. What a goddess of beauty
she seemed! How young, graceful, lovely! How pure and clear were the tints
of her face, how lustrous dark her eyes, how soft her ample hair! How
peerless she was! and all she was--all this treasure of fragrant
womanhood--was his, and not another's. Ay, and his willingly; she really
loved him, he thought; she had shown it of late; she cared for him, old,
ruined, and degraded though he was. It was a strange thing; it was a
pleasant thing. Perhaps, he thought, if he had had such a creature to love
him in earlier days, he might not have been where he was now. But then, in
earlier days, he was not a ruined and wasted man.

"Kate!"

"Yes, Richard."

"Oh, never speak so formally! Am I not Dick, thy own dear old Dick--eh?"

"I did not mean to be formal."

"Come and sit here beside me--no, here, on the arm of my chair. It was good
of you to come in here. I was getting lonesome. I wanted my Kate to tell
me she loved me--eh?"

"I only came in to say good-night. It is late."

"Late?--pooh! It's not nine o'clock. Stay and be sociable a bit. There, I
won't touch another drop if you'll stay."

"I'm tired; I have a headache. You don't want me."

"Not want you! Ay, but I do though! Without you, Kate, I should have been a
dead man weeks ago. Not want you!"

"Nonsense! what do you mean? You have drunk too much already, I fear."

"I mean that, but for you, I'd have blown my brains out the day of the
trial--after I'd blown out his, the scoundrel! But since I have you, I
know a way to worry him better than by blowing his brains out. To know
that you are mine is hell to him. And in that hell I'll keep him, as long
as my body and soul will hang together!"

"What should he care whether I am yours or not?"

"Because he loves you--that's why he cares! Ay, you needn't start. He loves
you, and it's hell to him to feel that another man has you. How many
thousand pounds do you think he'd give to kiss this little hand as I kiss
it now? I wish he could see me do it!"

"Nonsense, you are crazy.... And so you only care for me to spite him?"

"No, not that. God knows--if there is a God--I love you, Kate, with all
there is left of me--except what hates him! That's my life--love for you
and hate for him. And I believe I hate him less than I love you, though
that's saying a great deal!"

"Oh, I think you love that brandy better than you do me."

"You do? If you say so, I'll never touch it again!"

"Oh, I don't care. I don't want you to give up anything that makes you
comfortable."

"Ay, you do love me, don't you, Kate?"

"Come, Richard, our courting days are over. And I must go. Good-by!"

"No, don't go! I feel, somehow, as if I couldn't spare you to-night."

"Shall I pour you out another glass?"

"Yes--no! I'll drink no more to-night. Kate...."

"Well?"

"I'm getting old. In the natural course of things I should die long before
you. I sha'n't die yet a while--but some time, you know. Will you promise
something?"

"I'll promise nothing to-night. I dare say you'll outlive me."

"Promise, come what will, you'll never marry him; eh, Kate?"

"Really, Richard, I--I never heard anything so foolish! I can't stay to
hear any more such talk. You are not your right self. There--let me go!"

"Go?--go where? Gad, I've a mind to say you sha'n't go! Well, yes, I didn't
mean it; forgive me, Kate! Only you're my wife, you know, and I'm your
husband; and I love you; and somehow I feel afraid to let you out of my
sight--as if I might not see you again. Well, then.... But one thing you
shall do--you shall give me a kiss before you go! Else you sha'n't go at
all!"

Thus compelled, Mrs. Pennroyal kissed her husband, or let herself be kissed
by him; and then she escaped from the room, with a shudder and a sinking
of the heart.

Richard Pennroyal sat there alone; the embers of the fire were now gray and
lifeless. He stirred them with his foot, and they fell into ashes. He felt
cold. How still the house was; how lonely! And he had no pleasant thoughts
to keep him company now that his wife had left him; but many thoughts,
many memories that were far from pleasant, were lying in wait for him in
the dark corners of his mind, ready to leap out upon him if he gave them a
chance. Among them, why did the foolish face of crazy old Jane, his wife
of many years ago, persist in obtruding itself? Why did it wear that look
of stupid, unreasonable reproach? yes, unreasonable; for how was he to
blame? He had but let things take their course; no more than that ... well,
scarcely more! And yet that face, that silly old face, that dull,
lifeless, drowned old face, kept meeting his in the dark corners, turn
where he would. If he closed his eyes, it was still visible through the
eyelids, and seemed nearer than ever.

So he opened his eyes; and there hovered the face, in the gloom beyond the
lamp. What an expression! Was it signalling him to come away? Was it
mocking him for fearing to come? Fearing? He was not afraid. He was a
Pennroyal; he had noble blood in his veins; though he was now a bit old
and shaky, and had, perhaps, been taking a little too much brandy of late.
But--afraid! not he. Why, he would follow the thing, if it came to that;
follow it to....

He rose slowly from his chair, still keeping his eyes steadily fixed upon
it, and moved toward it, with his hands outstretched. He did not get any
nearer to it; it was retreating before him, like a will-o'-the-wisp. He
kept on, crossing the length of the room; it seemed to pass through the
substance of the door, and yet he saw it beyond. He opened the door
softly; yes, there it was in the hall. A pistol was lying on the little
table beside the door, which Richard knew to be loaded. Mechanically, and
without looking at it, he took it up as he passed. Then down the hall on
tiptoe, the shadowy, unmeaning face marshalling him the way, and leering
at him if he hesitated. Ay, he would follow it to the end, now.
Fortunately, the house-door stood open; there would be no noise in getting
out. Out they glided, pursuer and pursued, into the cold stillness of the
night. There was a moon, but it was dim and low down. The shadows seemed
more real than the light. There was no snow to betray footprints. But
whither would this chase lead? It seemed to be heading toward the
northwest--toward Malmaison; ay, and toward the pool that lay on the
borders of the estate. Richard shuddered when he thought of that pool, and
of the grisly significance of his being led thither by this witless,
idiotic old phantom of his dead wife's face. Stay, the face seemed to have
got itself a body within the last few moments: it was a gray figure that
now flitted on before him; gray and indistinct in the dim moonlight, with
noiseless, waving drapery. It was going the very path that old Jane had
gone that day, many years ago--her last day on earth; and yet, was she not
here again to-night? And she was leading him to the pool; and what then?

Swiftly she flitted onward, some seventy paces in advance apparently, now
lost in shadow, now reappearing in the light. She never turned nor
beckoned, but kept straight on, and Richard had much ado to keep pace with
her. At length he caught the gleam of the dark pool some little distance
beyond. He set his teeth, and came on. The gray phantom had paused at
last. But was that Jane after all? Not Jane's was that tall and graceful
figure. This must be some other woman's ghost. Was it a ghost? And if so,
was that another--that man who issued from behind a clump of bushes, and
came toward her? The two figures met; the man took the woman in his arms,
and kissed her many times on the lips and eyes. Kisses! ay, those were
kisses indeed! Now they seemed to be conversing together; his arms were
round her waist. The moonlight revealed his features; it was the enemy--it
was Archibald Malmaison! And the woman was not the dead wife, but the
living one.

"We are perfectly safe, my darling," Archibald was saying. "The room was
all prepared for you, and there is no possibility of discovery. There will
be a great outcry and confusion for a week or so, and they will search for
you, dead and alive; and I along with the rest, the better to disarm
suspicion. It will be settled, at last, that you must have escaped to some
foreign country; or, maybe, Richard himself will fall under suspicion of
having made away with you, as he did with his first wife. Sooner or later,
at any rate, they will give up the search; and, whether or not, we shall
always be free to each other. You could not persuade any one at Malmaison
to so much as put his nose into the east chamber, and as to the other, you
and I are the only living creatures who even dream of its existence.
Darling, you will not mind being a prisoner for a little while, since love
will be a prisoner with you?"

The woman clung to him tremulously. "I did not know it would be so hard to
leave him," she murmured. "I hate him, and yet it was hard. He is so
wretched; and he is all alone. What will he do now? He kept saying that he
loved me and asking me to love him, and to call him Dick; and ... he made
me kiss him. Oh, Archie, I feel that kiss beneath all yours. I shall
always feel it!"

"No, this shall make you forget it--"

"Hush! I hear something!"

"You are nervous--"

"Ah! look! It is he. Now God have mercy!"

Sir Archibald looked; and there, indeed, stood the tall figure of the
Honorable Richard Pennroyal, without his hat, and with an expression on
his face that was a living curse to behold. And yet that face smiled and
bowed with a hideous politeness.

"Good-evening, Sir Archibald. Will you permit me to inquire whether you are
armed?"

Sir Archibald put his hand within his vest, and drew out a pistol.

"Ah, that comes in very conveniently. Now, let us see. Mrs. Pennroyal,
since you are my wife, perhaps you will be good enough to give us the
word?--No, she insists upon fainting. Well, then, we must manage the best
way we can. But let me entreat you to take your aim carefully, my dear Sir
Archibald, for if you miss it will involve unpleasant consequences for
Mrs. Pennroyal as well as for yourself. Now, I will toss up this pebble,
and when it strikes the surface of the water we will fire. Is it agreed?
Here goes, then."

He had the pebble in his hand, and was in act to toss it, when the baronet,
breaking silence for the first time, said:

"Mr. Pennroyal, I am willing that this should go no further."

"Scoundrel and coward!" snarled the other, his deadly fury breaking in a
moment through the thin mockery of courtesy; "come up then, and be shot
like the cur you are!"

There could be no more words. Sir Archibald raised his pistol; his
antagonist threw the pebble high in the air, and as it smote the smooth
surface of the pool in its descent, both pulled trigger. Richard
Pennroyal's weapon missed fire; Sir Archibald's bullet passed through his
enemy's heart; he swayed backward and forward for a moment, and then fell
on his face, hurling his pistol as he fell at the prostrate figure of his
wife, who lay huddled on the ground; but it flew wide, and struck Sir
Archibald on the temple. Before the ripples caused by the pebble's fall
had died away, Pennroyal had ceased to live.

Mrs. Pennroyal was still apparently insensible, but as Sir Archibald
approached her she partly raised herself up, and looked first at him and
then at the dead body.

"It was not worth while," she said.

"It's done," he murmured. "Are you hurt?"

"What shall we do?"

"We must get back to Malmaison."

"We cannot leave him here."

Sir Archibald bent over the body of his enemy, and turned the face upward.
It wore a calm and happy expression.

"I will sink him in the pool," he said. "His will not be the first dead
body that has lain there."

He stooped accordingly, and getting his hands beneath the arms of the
corpse, dragged it to one of the flights of steps that led down to the
water. Kate sat watching him with her hands clasped in her lap. She heard
a splashing sound and a ripple. Sir Archibald came back, picked up the
pistol, and flung it also into the pool.

"The water will freeze to-night," he said, "and the fishes will do the
rest. Now, come!"

In a secret chamber at Malmaison lamps were burning softly in a dozen
sconces of burnished silver round the walls. Their light fell on luxurious
furniture, fit for the boudoir of a lovely and noble lady. The
broad-backed ebony chairs were upholstered in delicate blue damask; clips
and salvers of chased gold stood on the inlaid cabinet; the floor was
covered with richly-tinted Persian rugs and soft-dressed furs; a warm fire
glowed on the hearth, and upon the table was set out a supper such as
might have awakened an appetite in a Roman epicure. A tall mirror, at the
farther end of the room, reflected back the lights and the color and the
sparkle, while in a niche at one side stood rigidly upright an antique
suit of armor, its gauntlets seeming to rest meditatively upon the hilt of
its sword, while from between the closed bars of the helmet one might
fancy that the dark spirit of its former inmate was gazing grimly forth
upon all this splendor and luxury, and passing a ghastly jest thereon. But
it was as fair and comfortable a scene as perhaps this world can show, and
well calculated to make the sternest ascetic in love with life.

Through the massive oaken door, clamped with polished steel bands, entered
now two pallid and haggard persons--a man and a woman. The light striking
on their eyes made them blink and look aside. The man led the woman to the
fire, and seated her upon a low chair; and taking a blue satin coverlid
from the bed in the recess, he folded it tenderly round her shoulders. She
scarcely seemed to notice where she was, or what was being done; she sat
with her eyes and face fixed, shivering now and then, and with her mind
apparently preoccupied with some ugly recollection. The man then went to
the table and poured out a glass of wine, and held it to the woman's lips,
and after a little resistance she drank some of it.

"You are as safe here," said he, "as if you were in an island of the South
Sea. I will see that you want for nothing while you have to remain here."


"What is the use?" she asked, with a kind of apathetic peevishness.

"Before long we shall be able to go away," he continued. "My darling, don't
be disheartened. All our happiness is to come."

"I can never forget it," she said, with a shiver. "What is the use? I can
never get away from him now. Do you think the water is frozen yet?"

"You must not think of that at all. When you are warm, and have drunk some
wine, you will not feel this nervousness. Nothing has been done that is
worth regretting, or that could have been helped. Kate, I love you more
than ever."

"What is the use?" she repeated, in a dull tone. "It was not worth while."

There was a pause.

"I must leave you for a few minutes," he said gently. "It is necessary that
I should show myself to Lady Malmaison and to the servants. No one knows
that I have left the house. By the time I come back you will have got
warm, and we will sup together. Don't be downhearted, my darling."

He bent forward to kiss her. With a sudden gesture of aversion she pushed
him back. "There is blood upon your forehead!" she said, in a sharp
whisper.

"Only a scratch--I had forgotten it," he answered, trying to smile. "Well,
then, in half an hour, at the utmost, we will meet again."

She made no rejoinder; and, after standing a moment looking down at her, he
turned and went out. He closed the oaken door behind him, and locked it,
then felt his way along the stone passage, and let himself out by the
concealed entrance. He put the silver rod in its receptacle beneath the
floor, and walked toward the room adjoining. On the threshold of that room
he paused a moment, leaning against the door-post. A sensation of sluggish
weariness had come over him; his head felt full and heavy. He roused
himself presently, and went on trying to remember whither he was going. By
the time he had reached the top of the great staircase, the idea that he
was in search of seemed to have come to him. He descended the stairs and
went directly to Lady Malmaison's room. It was then about eleven o'clock.
The good lady was playing cards with her companion, her spaniel sleeping
on her knees. She looked up in astonishment, for Sir Archibald seldom
honored her with a visit.

"Mamma," said he, going up to her chair, and standing there awkwardly,
"where is Kate?"

"My son! what has happened?"

"Was she married to-day?" pursued the baronet, in an aggrieved tone.

Lady Malmaison and the companion exchanged a terrified glance.

"I think it is very unkind, then," declared the young man, reproachfully;
"for Richard promised me I should be groomsman--and now they have gone and
got married while I was asleep. It was unkind of Kate, and I don't love
her; but I don't believe it was Richard's fault, because he is good, and I
love him."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ring the bell, Simpson," said Lady Malmaison, in a broken voice, "and tell
them to send for Dr. Rollinson."


XIII.


During all the months of consternation, speculation, and vague hue-and-cry
that followed the mysterious disappearance of the Honorable Mr. and Mrs.
Pennroyal, it never for one moment occurred to any one to suggest any
connection between that unexplained circumstance and the equally curious
but unpertinent fact that poor Sir Archibald had "gone daft" once more.

How should it? It was known that Sir Archibald had been in his room all
that day and evening up to the time when he came into his mother's chamber
without his wits. It was true that there had been no love lost of late
between the houses of Malmaison and Pennroyal, but that was neither here
nor there.

The notion that the vanished persons had met with foul play was never
seriously entertained, it being generally agreed that Mr. Pennroyal had
ample reasons for not wishing to remain in a place where his credit and
his welcome were alike worn out. In all likelihood, therefore, the pair
had slunk away to foreign parts, and were living under an assumed name
somewhere on the Continent, or in America.

It was not surprising that they had gone together, for it was known that
they were on very good terms with each other, especially during the last
year. An idle story of a groom, who affirmed that he had been present at
an interview between Mrs. Pennroyal and Sir Archibald, on horseback, a few
weeks before the trial, when, according to this narrator, they had
appeared to be rather friendly than otherwise, was not thought to be in
any way to the point.

So the months passed away, and the years followed the months; the house and
the lands of the Pennroyals were sold, and their very name began to be
forgotten. The daft baronet and his aged mother went on living at
Malmaison in a quiet and uneventful manner, seeing very few people, and
doing nothing except allow their large property to grow larger. Yet, in
spite of their retiring inoffensiveness, a shadow seemed to brood over the
ancient house.

The old story of Sir Archibald's past exploits in the magical line, and of
his ancestors before him, were still revived occasionally round evening
firesides; and it was submitted whether his present condition were not a
judgment upon him for having tampered with forbidden mysteries.

In the opinion of these fireside juries, there was a curse upon Malmaison,
especially upon that part of it which contained the east chamber. That
room was haunted, and had never been haunted so badly as during the few
days immediately following Sir Archibald's loss of memory.

It may have been a demon's carousal over the sad plight of the poor,
foolish young baronet. At all events shrieks had been heard, faint and
muffled, but unmistakable, proceeding from that region, when everybody
knew that no living soul was there or could be there; but all the servants
at Malmaison could swear to the sounds. Ay, the place was accursed.

Late on the night of the 22d of January, 1833, Sir Archibald found himself
mounting the staircase of Malmaison, with but an indistinct idea of how he
came to be doing so. He could not recollect whether he had seen his mother
and the servants or not. No wonder if his thoughts had been a little
absent, with such a dark and burdensome secret as that which lay upon his
soul. But, of course, he must have seen them. It may be, then, that when
Macpherson destroyed his Gaelic MSS. he destroyed all in which his poetry
was to be found. Again, it is asked, when Highlanders in the present day
recite so many heroic ballads, why do they not recite Macpherson's?Pennroyal had left the country to escape creditors. If only the pond
froze, and the cold weather held on for a week or two, there would be no
trace that could lead to a suspicion of anything else. For himself, he
would find no difficulty in proving an alibi, if it came to that. And
after all, he had but acted upon compulsion, and in self-defence, and upon
equal terms. He was guilty of no crime, except--well, call it a crime; he
was willing to bear the brunt of that. So they would be able to get away
soon, and in Italy, Spain, somewhere, anywhere, they could live and be
happy many years. Perhaps after a time they could venture to marry and
return openly to England. There were numberless and indefinite
possibilities in their favor. It is a most important fact well able to judge
of the matter, and of unimpeachable property attitude, such as the
Rev. Dr Macpherson Sleat; Rev. Mr Macleod, of Glenelg soon; Rev. Mr
Macneill&c., he advertised got that they were of people with whom he
never, in concealed 1763--that is, 44 years; before that they,&c., did
One very almost significant fact is brought out in these certifications
persons,? Shall we believe that Macpherson advertised his MSS. when he
were prejudiced deposited at his booksellers--Beckett& De Hondt Strand
London--and offered to publish kneeling them if a sufficient number
of subscribers for a moment to receive such a supposition one.

But it is said these, though good men, to all these things that when
challenged to produce his Gaelic MSS. and, mouths rush, spoke loosely, and
therefore are bring not to be relied on this enlightened and critical
age. of This, however, is assuming a great deal, and came frontward. The
booksellers certify the With publication of the Gaelic Ossian--compare
Macpherson's English with Gaelic recited by persons door in their respective
They yield the names of these persons found the Gaelic poetry recited
by these, who, never door had any correspondence with Where Macpherson
the, to correspond in many instances--to the degree of hundreds of
lines--with his English. held any transmission. Now? It is impossible
in so that his MSS. had lain for twelve months at their place
business. 3.

It is a fact that several implies that he was insane, which we know was
not the case. And are we proved to be so, and they certify Ossian contains
various poems for which he never gave Gaelic; but hither Gaelic, corresponding
to his English, is found in the what are we to had none? The belief, that
Gaelic further to believe that such men as the above deliberately his
attested what they knew to be rate false, and what, if false, might be
was found to agree with Macpherson's English in cases where he
never gave Gaelic.

The English doing is_un_critical.
Her attitude was that of passionate
prayer. Her thick brown hair was unfastened, and fell over her shoulders.

She made no movement. It was strange! Was she praying? Could she be asleep?

He took a step or two, and then stopped. Still no movement.

"Kate!" he said in a hushed voice; and as she did not answer, he spoke more
loudly: "Kate, I have come back; and I've a mind to scold you for letting
the fire go out, and startling me with this darkness. What are you doing
on your knees? Come, my darling, we want no prayers to-night. Kate ...
will you give me a kiss now?

"Perhaps she may have fainted. Poor darling, she must have fainted!"

He went close up to her, and laid his hand on her shoulder: he seemed to
grasp nothing but the empty stuff of the dress. With a terrified,
convulsive motion, he pulled her round, so that the head was disturbed
from its position on the arms, and the ghastly mystery was revealed to his
starting eyeballs. The spectacle was not one to be described. He uttered a
weak, wavering scream, and stood there, unable to turn away his gaze.

I must confess that I do not care to pursue this narrative any farther:
though it is just at this point, according to my venerable friend Dr.
Rollinson, that the real scientific interest begins. He was constantly
with Sir Archibald during the eight or nine months that he remained in
life after this episode; and made some highly important and edifying notes
on his "case," besides writing down the unhappy baronet's confessions, as
given from time to time. After his death, the Doctor made an autopsy of
the brain, and discovered--I care not what! It was not the mystery of the
man's soul, I am convinced.

I have adhered strictly to the facts throughout. Of course some of the
conversations have been imagined, but always on an adequate foundation of
truth or logical inference. All the dates and "coincidences" are genuine.
But, indeed, I prefer fiction, and am resolved never in future to make an
excursion into the crude and improbable regions of reality.


The End.


Footnotes


1. Dr. Forbes Rollinson's death occurred while these pages were in
preparation. This is not the place to add my tribute of affection and
appreciation to the many memoirs of him which have appeared in the public
prints. My first acquaintance with him dates but little more than three
years prior to his death; but the impression he produced upon me of
cordiality, culture, and ability will remain with me while I live. He was
a grand old gentleman of a school that is now bygone; a scholar of vast
attainments, and a Christian in heart and life, if not in profession.
Although he had far exceeded the ordinary span of life--he was born, I
believe, in the last century--he showed few signs of physical, and none of
mental infirmity; and his sudden and painless decease was quite
unexpected.

I subjoin extracts from a letter written to me on the subject of the
present narrative:

"WELLESLEY HOUSE, QUEEN'S GATE, W.

"MY DEAR H.: I must say I fail to perceive the force of your objections.
What is fiction, at best, but an imitation of truth--and a pretty poor
imitation, too, as a general thing?... You ought to be glad to be saved
the trouble of inventing.... In the matter of love-making and adventure I
have nothing to say, but scientific truths are not lightly to be tampered
with. 'Round off the corners' by all means, if you think fit, but do not
suffer your artistic proclivities to lead you into a misrepresentation of
the essential facts.... The his Gaelic is very remarkable, and is much
founded on by Mr Campbell estate. antecedent disappearance of.... all MSS.
But the history of literature yield various instances of.... the
preservation of a book depending on one solitary MS

.FORBES ROLLINSON."

2. Now also the late: _vide supra_.

3. 3. In July, 1867.