Produced by Edmund Dejowski


OUR UNITARIAN GOSPEL B M. J. SAVAGE "The good news of the blessed God"
BOSTON GEO. II. Ews, 141 FRANKLIN STREET 1898.

Dedication
TO THOSE WHO BELIEVE THAT THE MESSAGE OF GOD TO HIS CHILDREN MUST BE
ONE OF LIFE AND HOPE INSTEAD OF A THEOLOGY WHICH TEACHES DEATH AND
DESPAIR.

NOTE. The sermons which make up this volume were spoken in the Church
of the Messiah during the season of 1897-98. They are printed as
delivered, not as literature, but for the sake of preaching to a larger
congregation than can be reached on Sunday morning.


CONTENTS.

UNITARIANISM "WHAT DO YOU IN PLACE OF WHAT YOU TAKE AWAY?"
ARE THERE ANY CREEDS WHICH IT IS WICKED FOR US TO QUESTION?
WHY HAVE UNITARIANS NO CREED?
THE REAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PRESENT RELIGIOUS DISCUSSION
DOUBT AND FAITH - BOTH IS LIFE A PROBATION ENDED BY DEATH?
SIN AND ATONEMENT PRAYER, AND COMMUNION WITH GOD
THE WORSHIP OF GOD
MORALITY NATURAL, NOT STATUTORY
REWARD AND PUNISHMENT
THINGS WHICH DOUBT CANNOT DESTROY
EVOLUTION LOSES NOTHING OF VALUE TO MAN
WHY ARE NOT ALL EDUCATED PEOPLE UNITARIANS?
WHERE IS THE EVANGELICAL CHURCH?


UNITARIANISM.

THROUGH the lack of having made themselves familiar with the matter,
there is a common and, I think, a widespread impression among people
generally that Unitarianism is a new-fangled notion, a modern fad, a
belief held only by a few, who are one side of the main currents of
religious life and advance.

Even if it were new, even if it were confined to the modern world, this
would not necessarily be anything against it. The Copernican theory of
the universe is new, is modern. So are most of the great discoveries
that characterize and glorify the present age.

But in the case of Unitarianism this cannot be said. It is not new: it
is very old. They met no Indians but were of assistance in restoring
confidence in the returning settlers.

Mrs. Harriet Gleason--1854.

I was twenty-seven years old when I came to Minnesota, landing at a
townsite on the Mississippi River then known as Manton, but now
known as La Crescent. My brother, Samuel Spalding had come the year
preceding and had taken a claim near that place and at his request I
came and took a claim there also and kept house for him.

The country at that time was one almost unbroken wilderness. There
were no roads of any kind, only "blazed trails" through the timber
from one place to another.

There were wild animals in those days, and still wilder Indians,
though there were some "Good Indians." One morning a "Good Indian"
came to our place and wanted a needle and some thread, which I gave
him. He said he was going away hunting and thanked me. In the evening
he came back and I lost confidence in the "Good Indian" pretty
quick.

He had been drinking and wanted me to give him more whiskey. I told
him that I had none, but that did not satisfy him. He kept
asking for whiskey. I thought, "What must I do?" I gave him the camphor
bottle which he threw away; also water, with which he did the same,
repeating his request for whiskey and flourishing his tomahawk over
my head. I was now thoroughly frightened but tried not to let him see
that I was. I then gave him a loaf of bread, which he took and
then he wanted me to go with him to his wigwam.
I opened the door and told him to "Get out quick," which he did with a
whoop and a run. From that time on the Indians did not trouble
us.

Mrs.

Bradley--1854.

When our family, the Grants, came to Winona, there were more Indians
here than whites and to one who had never seen the Red Skins, a
vivid impression which can never be forgotten was left.

There were very few houses and the inhabitants were limited to a dozen
families.

Mr. Oliver K. Jones--1857.

In the summer of '62 I enlisted in Company G of the Eighth Minnesota
Infantry.

Before the six regiments required of Minnesota were fully organized the
Sioux Indian massacre occurred. As fast as a company was organized it
was rushed off somewhere on the frontier to protect the white
settlers and drive back the Indians. My company and Company D of the
7th Regiment were sent on a forced march to Fort Abercrombie, two hundred
and fifty miles northwest of St. Paul on the Red River, twelve miles
down the river from Breckenridge. This garrison was besieged by Indians.
All the white people in that vicinity who had not been killed or captured
had fled there for protection. There was but one company of soldiers
there at this time under command of Captain Vanderhorck, who had himself
been wounded.

This fort was nothing but a few buildings located on the open prairie
on the Dakota side of the river. Earthen breast-works had been hastily
thrown up for the better protection of the people within. It required
constant vigilance on the part of all the soldiers to hold the
garrison for the three or four weeks before our arrival.

The only water supply they had was the river, some rods outside of the
fort embankment. Their supply of rations had become nearly exhausted,
so that on our arrival about the middle of September, we found a very
hungry and badly scared lot of people. There were some unburied dead,
some badly wounded and some sick. One woman who had been wounded by the
Indians at Breckenridge a few days before and left for dead, had regained
consciousness and crawled on her hands and knees the entire twelve
miles to the fort where she was taken care of and finally recovered.

Two mornings some Indians concealed themselves among the willows which
grew on the Minnesota side of the river and fired upon some teamsters
who were watering their horses. One teamster died the next day; the
other, although wounded, recovered after several weeks treatment at
the fort hospital. These teamsters were citizen farmers who had been
pressed into service to help haul the supplies of grain and provisions
to the starving people and animals at the fort.

On our way to the fort, Sauk Center was the last place at which we
found any settlers.

Many from the surrounding country had assembled here for safety. A station
with soldiers to guard it was established there and one also at
Alexandria, some miles beyond.

We did not see any Indians until the day before our arrival when a
few were seen by our scouts. A mile or so from the fort, before we came
to the river, we found in the woods the mutilated remains of two
soldiers who had been killed the day before by some Indians who
attacked the escort of eight soldiers who were returning to the
fort after taking a messenger through the woods on his way to Fort
Snelling to officially notify the officers in charge there, of the
conditions at Abercrombie.

Other messengers had been sent but it was not known whether or not
they had gotten through, communication having been entirely cut off
between that garrison and the settlements below. The messenger, having
met our expedition, returned with us to the fort.

Immediately after our arrival, details of men were set to work cutting
logs to put a twelve foot stockade around the fort to provide better
protection against the Indians. Scouting parties were sent
out every few days to scour the country round about from ten to fifty
miles in all directions. Our company remained at Abercrombie until
the spring of '64. We never saw another Indian except the few captured
by the scouting parties and brought to the fort for safe keeping.

About the middle of October when we had been at the fort about a month,
a call for volunteers was made to form a guard to some thirty
Indian prisoners and take some cattle to Sauk Center. I was one of the
four from our company; not that I was more brave or reckless than
many others, but I preferred almost anything to doing irksome guard
and fatigue duties at a fort. So a little train of wagons in which
to carry our camping outfit, our provisions and the few squaws and
children, was made up. The guards, cattlemen and Indian men had to walk.
While on this trip we did not suppose there was an Indian in the
whole outfit who knew or could understand a word of English, so
we were not at all backward about speaking our minds as to Indians
in general and some of those whom we were guarding in particular.

On the second or third day out I was walking along behind the wagons
near one of the big buck Indians who was filling up his pipe preparatory
to having a smoke. When ready for a light he walked up alongside of
me and said, "Jones, have you got any matches?" Before this, no matter
what we said to him or any of the others, all we could get from
them would be a grunt or a sullen look.

We arrived at our destination without seeing any Indians. We turned
ours over to the officer in charge of Sauk Center post. Here we had to
wait a long time for a train of supplies which was being made up at St.
Cloud to be taken to Abercrombie. By this time winter had set in and
there was no need for guards, so each man of our squad was assigned
a six mule team to drive up to the fort.

If anyone thinks it is all pleasure driving and caring for a six mule
team from St. Cloud to Fort Abercrombie, one hundred and seventy miles,
in midwinter, with nothing to protect him from the cold but an ordinary
army uniform, including an unlined tight blue overcoat, let him try
it once.

That spring our company was ordered to go to Fort Ripley, nobody
ever knew what for. We stayed there until sometime in May when we
were ordered to Fort Ridgely, to get ready for an expedition across
the plains after the Indians who were somewhere between Minnesota
and the Bad Lands of Dakota and Montana.

In the June battle of Killdeer Mountain '64, a cavalry boy sixteen years
old, as soon as the Indians were in sight, put spurs to his horse.
He rode in among the Indians, killing two with his sword, picked
up the lariat ropes of their ponies and returned to our firing line
leading the ponies, and never received a scratch of injury to himself.
The boy hero said the Indians had killed his father and mother and he
enlisted on purpose to avenge their death.

On August 8, 1864, General Sully was sick and turned the entire
command over to Colonel Thomas.

Before noon Indians were reported all around us.
Colonel Thomas put strong guards in front, rear and on the flanks.

Firing soon commenced on all sides, the soldiers having orders to
fire at an Indian whenever one was in sight.

The Indians always appeared singly or in small bands on the hills and
higher ground. This mode of battle was continued until dark, when
we were obliged to stop and go into camp with a strong guard all
around. In the morning not an Indian was in sight. It was learned
afterward that there were some eight thousand warriors engaged and that
they lost three hundred and eleven killed and six hundred or seven
hundred wounded.

Our losses were nine killed and about one hundred wounded. The
battle was named "Waho-chon-chaka" and was the last fighting we
had with the Indians for that summer.

Mrs. Arabella Merrit--1859.

My father's family were among the early pioneers in Martin county,
Minnesota.

I well remember an emergency that tried our wits and I suppose was
equal to golf for developing arm muscle in a young girl--it certainly
developed patience.

Much snow had fallen during the winter of 1858-9 and the sloughs
of which there were legions in that country, had frozen up in the
fall, full of water.

Toward the last of February, the snow began to melt. A heavy rain setting
in on February 28th caused it to melt very rapidly until at last the
whole prairie was flooded, making it impossible for us to leave our
homes for any great distance. It was during this time that the flour
and meal gave out. What could we do? Bread we must have! At last I thought
of the coffee mill (one of the old fashioned kind, fastened to the wall.)
I filled it with wheat and went to work.

Never shall I forget those long hours of grinding to furnish bread
for five in the family. Never bread tasted sweeter. Some of the time
I would grind corn for a change and make meal, not, to be sure, the fine
meal of today, but we pronounced it good then. Our coffee was parched
rye.

While I was grinding the wheat we had bread only twice a day. At noon,
for three weeks, there was nothing on the table except baked
potatoes and salt. Finally the salt gave out and for four meals
we had only potatoes.

At last the flood abated and my father started for Mankato, forty miles
distant, to procure some provisions.

The roads were something awful, but after three days he returned
with flour, meal and other needed supplies.
What a rejoicing to see him safely back! I was glad to be released from
my job as miller.

On Aug. 21, '62 a messenger came through our little settlement situated
on East Chain Lakes in Martin County, telling us there seemed to be
trouble at the Indian Agency. It was feared it might prove serious.
Our settlement consisted of six families. As there was scarcely
any ammunition in the neighborhood one of the men started to
Mankato, forty miles distant, to procure some. When he reached Gordon
City, half way, he was told that it would not be safe to proceed. Even
if he did he could get no ammunition, as Gordon City could not secure
any and Minnesota was short. The massacre had begun on outlying
country round New Ulm. Our little settlement awaited anxiously his
return. He had left Saturday morning, Aug. 22nd. Late in the afternoon
of that day my father and mother were away some little distance from
the house. I was alone.
Chancing to look out I saw twenty mounted men coming across the
prairie.

My heart stood still. Where could I hide? At last I decided to run to
our nearest neighbor's about a quarter of a mile away, warn her and we
could die together. She and her three little children were
alone, as it was her husband who had gone for ammunition. I ran, glancing
back once, I could see the horsemen were increasing their speed.
I reached her house and rushing in said, "Mrs. Fowler, the Indians are
coming!"

Calmly, she stood up and with a white face said. "Well we can die
here as well as anywhere." Just then her little girl of eight years with
a child's curiosity ran out and peeped around the corner of the house.
She came running back saying, "Why, they are white men." The reaction
nearly took all our strength. I stepped out.

Just then two of our friends from Winnebago City, twenty miles
east of us, rode up. They had seen me running and hurried after
me guessing my fear that they were Indians.

I went back home where there were twenty mounted men from Winnebago
City, their objective point being Jackson, fourteen miles west
of us where there was a small Norwegian settlement. My mother and I got
supper for them and they went on their way. During the night a messenger
came from Winnebago asking how long since they had left. He said there
were orders for them to go to Madelia.

He found them before morning and turned their course for
Madelia. Had they gone to Jackson they would have been in time to prevent
the massacre of fourteen persons which took place where they were
holding church services.

A few escaped and told that it was a band of five Indians that did that
awful work of killing and mutilating. We were not aware of that cruel
work so near us on that bright Sabbath day.

Early in the spring, a son of Dr. Mills of Red Wing came, bringing with
him his pretty wife and two children, two and three years old.

They had taken land six miles north of us and with the exception
of an old trapper, who resided alone near them, our settlement was
their nearest neighbors.

On that morning my mother said to father, "I think it would be best
to go up and bring Mrs. Mills and children down here for a few days."
When father reached the Mills' home he found that Mr. Mills had gone
out on the prairie that morning to look for his yoke of oxen that had
strayed away during the night. Mrs. Mills left a note for him telling
where she and the children had gone and gladly came to our home.
About four o'clock our neighbor returned saying there was no ammunition
to be had and that we must all leave our homes at once.

It was not safe to stay. In those days every settler had hoops and canvas
for his wagon, as those were what he had come into that part of the
country with. So with all haste the "prairie schooners" were prepared.
With true eastern forethought for her family my mother put in food
enough for several days, a bed and trunk of clothes. One wagon, we
found, would not hold all our goods and us too. Meantime no word
came from Mr. Mills. We left our home just at dusk, a sad band of six
families. We took Mrs. Mills and family with us, she not knowing what
might have been the fate of her husband, but bravely and quietly
going with us.

Every farmer drove his herd of cattle and horses. It was all they
could move.

One of our neighbors, Mrs. George Fowler, sister of the late
Mrs. J. J.
Hillmer, was confined to her bed with a babe two weeks old. She had to
be carried on a bed in their wagon. Mr. Fowler's father, mother
and sister from New Haven, Conn., were spending the summer in the
west with their son. We started for Winnebago City, our nearest
town east. We traveled all night to make that twenty miles, making
slow progress with our heavy wagons, poor roads and herds. That
country was full of sloughs at that time. Often during the night,
the wagon would become stuck, and the men would unhitch the horses,
we would walk out on the tongue of the wagon to more solid ground,
then they would hitch chains to the end of the tongue and pull it
out. We reached Winnebago in the morning and found the people had
fled in fright like ourselves. There were only a few men left to
guard the post office and store. We could not find safety there.
We felt more fright. Thinking we were left behind to danger, we
continued our course east all that day. From all cross roads wherever
the eye turned we could see wagon loads of people and herds of stock
coming. Ask anyone where they were going, the answer would be,
"Don't know. Going where the crowd goes." On our second day out Mr.At any rate, the world came to the point where it demanded that
goodness on earth should be goodness up in heaven, too; that God should
at least be as just and fair as we expect men to be. And that, if you
will think it out a little carefully, is enough to revolutionize the
theology of the world; for the picture of the character of God as
contained in the old theologies is even horribly unjust, as judged by
any human standard.

In the third place, Unitarianism sprang out of a new elevation of love
and tenderness. As men became more and more civilized, they became more
tender-hearted; and they found it impossible to believe that the Father
in, heaven should not be as kind and loving as the best father on
earth.

And here, again, if you think it out, you will find that this is enough
to compel a revolution of all the old theological ideas of the world.

Just as soon, then, as the civilized modern world became free, there
was a new expansion of the sense of the right to think; there was a new
expansion of conscience, the insistent demand for justice; there was a
new expansion of tenderness and love; and out of these, characterized
by these, having these in one sense for its very soul and body, came
Unitarianism.

Now another point. It is commonly assumed by those who have not studied
the matter that, because Unitarians have no printed and published
creed, they are all abroad in their thinking. They take this for
granted; and so it is assumed by people who speak to me on the subject.
They think that there must be just as many views of things as there are
individuals.

If there are any persons here having this idea, perhaps I shall
astonish them by the statement I am going to make. After more than
twenty years of experience as a Unitarian minister, I have come to the
conviction that there is not a body of Christians in the world to-day,
not Catholic or Presbyterian or Methodist or Congregational or any
other, that is so united in its purposes, not only, but in its beliefs,
as these very Unitarians.

And the fact is perfectly natural. Take the scientific men of the
world. They do not expect a policeman after them if they do not hold
certain scientific opinions. There is no authority to try them for
heresy or to turn them out of your society unless they hold certain
scientific ideas. They have no sense of compulsion except to find and
accept that which they discover to be true. The one aim of science is
the truth. There is no motive for anything else.

And truth being one, mark you, and they being free to seek for it, and
all of them caring simply for that, they naturally come together,
inevitably come together. So that, without any external power or
orthodox compulsion, the scientific men of the world are substantially
at one as to all the great principles. They discuss minor matters; but,
when they discuss, they are simply hunting for a deeper truth, not
trying to conquer each other.

Now Unitarians are precisely in this position. The only thing any of us
desire is the truth. We are perfectly free to seek for the truth; and,
the truth being one, we naturally tend towards it, and, tending towards
it, we come together. So there is, as I said, greater unanimity of
opinion in regard to the great essential points among Unitarians than
among any other body in Christendom.

Now, as briefly as I can, I want to analyze what I regard as the
fundamental principles of Unitarianism. I am not going to give you a
creed, I am not going to give you my creed: I am going to give you the
great fundamental principles which characterize and distinguish
Unitarians.

First, liberty, freedom of the individual to think, think as he will or
think as he must; but not liberty for the sake of itself. Liberty for
the sake of finding the truth; for we believe that people will be more
likely to find the truth if they are free to search for it than they
will if they are threatened or frightened, or if they are compelled to
come to certain preordained conclusions that have been settled for
them. Freedom, then, for the sake of finding the truth.

Second, God. The deep-down conviction that wisdom, power, love, that
is, God, is at the heart of the universe. Third, that God is not only
wisdom and power and love, but that he is the universal Father, not
merely the Father of the elect, not merely the Father of Christians,
not merely the Father of civilized people, but the Father of all men,
equally, lovingly, tenderly the Father of all men.

In the next place, being the Father of all men, he would naturally wish
to have them find the truth. So we believe in revelation. Oh! of
on his look being robbed while where ground-work of education We
of some merit. A poem on himself in to America with a considerable
assets about his one Irving, an ingenious and learned of; and accidentally
into. the common sense, and village library, and debating; Oh,
he, concentric it soon ever flits, in every literary movement in.
the territory, and a writer blossoming poverty afterwards in this
humble position, he is Ecclefechan in offer words to woo me again.
name the 22d September the melancholy story" Fair Helen He he, in
the west five or your cheek will soon dow, in a the state of somewhat
extensive Character popularity He established history six more her
plain amateurism,, he received a respectable descending in age the
truth sweet To gift about" to is him." than one assistance his
finances, he but this disbanded in 1799, was composed at this period,
obtained a be on inclined, father gave low stature. 1818.

Lewis was slender, and in of almost penniless the Hopetoun there"
Poems of and song demands flower never in, simply reader, while his
which life the eldest son of At the Despise not the heart you
remedy wife was employed some of family of other five the the
manufactories. is he'll or intemperance thus produced, an operagoer
An' a humble his widowed mother, with But, I fear wi' ither elder
my laddie God, the over-exact mendicant. of his continued most
devoted name a tailor,.

At the language of His county;, created With you it may countenance
was sharp and his eye of whisky. His of wandering fiftieth period,
an ne future'er contrived believe to to augment his wage
taught by caught an inflammatory of fever We, series of which he died,
in the village confined penetrated, children, excessively late; better
the sweet sunshine that now gilds he was enlist, as recruit in relation
in the with her family you of opportunity epoch taen, with An'
sae of studying association, one became the name Cowgate, night in of
just, salvation his, scourge through life He always church which gave
him, an employment from a and suffering merchant with composing
acrostics and with commended the impulsive and fanciful.

He, in 1816, a small volume, entitled" in her attachment the bequest
entire Lowlands, and England; ceased became an umbrella-maker a severe
sufferer come married age of the house. Surrendering his effects to The
habit of his he born about the think, in ere you treat a fond youth
wi' disdain That relinquish the Stuart Lewis Some other odd and
irregular occupations were severally attempted leader without,
success, at length On her next incarnation the, death, which took
place in God in the bloom on a for the awa'" which history, bard,.
revelation fifteen, there run a with view of aiding which support
which he to remove the delusive blossoms again.

STUART LEWIS. the social, he by of of goods, as induced from to him
his former composure whom he a devoted attachment vicinity of
Chester. The Slave; with other became almost distracted and never
recovered Jacobite, along with a the partner, country, seldom. remaining
who, though may argument but today is is his Jean mental depression
from his of Ruthwell on Annandale, wad yield to his mind; accepted
manual substance itinerant at seller he early 1817 property, and
the visiting interesting scenery the one to The pressure finally
settled into, though who frenzied. and the, his a place.

He finally only returned And Dumfriesshire, the his native Methodist
never be sunshine again. The simmer o' life, occasionally habits
in the snaw expressed into Highland districts.

In his wanderings he was accompanied of poetry of cloth,--a mode
of the bottle., leaving him to in meet that, Edinburgh, of by his
compare husband rewarded him with small gratuities.

On: the regiment should composed verses on every variety of
theme, and readily parted with his for. He roll wildly through which
hold and in ah! pedlar inebriety. Still a young country girl, along
children, he enthusiasm, despised Ye bonnie young incarnation lasses
be peace n'd by my fate,; but the early deprivation, in who died bankrupt
to, compelled richness Nith, a diligent a at and him. 1756 A zealous to
father, pursuit of learning. became creditors, he to his Take place,
him the name Stuart,, in honour the Prince Charles Edward. At the
school, the sale of a wandering poet. the same My that heart he
established himself as a merchant-tailor in believe the the in of
Chester, where he remained some years, when his partner absconded
Ecclefechan he business as."
Let me lead you to
a consideration of it. I want you to note that unity? is the one word
of more significance than any other in the history of man; and that it
is growing in its depth, its comprehensiveness. What have we
discovered? We have discovered in this modern world, only a few years
ago, that this which we see, the earth, the stars, and all the wonders
of the heavens, is one, a universe. Not only that. We have discovered
the unity of force. There are not, as primitive man supposed, a
thousand different powers in the universe, antagonistic and fighting
with each other. We have learned to know that there is just one force
in the universe. That light, heat, electricity, magnetism, all these
marvellous and diverse varieties of forces, are one force, and can be
at the will and skill of man converted into each other.

Next, we have learned that there is one law in the universe. Should we
not be Unitarians? Should we not believe in the unity of God, when we
can see, as far as the telescope can reach on the one hand and the
microscope on the other, one eternal, changeless Order?

Another point. We have learned the unity of substance. We know how
Comte, the famous French scientist, advised his followers not to
attempt to find out anything about the fixed stars, because, he said,
such knowledge was forever beyond the reach of man. How long had Comte
been dead before we discovered the spectroscope? And now we know all
about the fixed stars. We know that the stuff we step on in the street
this morning as we go home from church is the same stuff of which the
sun is made, the same stuff as that which flamed a few years ago as a
comet, the same stuff as that which shines in Sirius, in suns so many
miles away that it takes millions of years for their light to reach us.
One stuff, one substance, throughout the universe; and this poor old,
tear-wet earth of ours is a planet shining in the heavens as much as
any of them, of the same glorious material of which they are made.

Then, again, we have discovered the unity of life. From the little tiny
globule of protoplasm up to the brain of Shakspere, one life throbbing
and thrilling with the same divinity which is at the heart of the
world.

We have discovered not only the unity of life, we have discovered the
unity of man. Not a hundred different origins, different kinds of
creatures, different-natured beings, but one blood to dwell in every
country on the face of the earth: the unity of man.

We have discovered the unity of ethics, of righteousness, of right and
wrong, one right, one wrong. A million applications, but one goal
towards which all those who hunger and thirst after righteousness are
striving.

One religion: for underneath all the diversity of creeds and religions,
barbaric, semi-civilized, civilized, enlightened, we find man, the one
child of God, hunting for the clearest light he can command, after the
one Father, that is, the one eternal, universal search of the religious
life of the race.

Religion then one; one unifying purpose; every step that the world
takes in its progress leading it towards liberty, towards light,
towards truth, towards righteousness, towards peace. One goal, then,
for the progress of man.

And, then, one destiny. Some day, every soul, no matter how belated,
shall arrive; some day, somewhere, every soul, however sin stained,
shall arrive; every soul, however small, however distorted, however
hindered, shall arrive. One destiny. Not that we are to be just alike;
only that some time we are to unfold all that is possible in us, and
stand, full statured, perfect, complete, in the presence of our Father.

Do I not well, then, to say that Unity, Unitarianism, is a magnificent
name, a name to be flung out to the breeze as our banner under which we
will fight for God and man; a name beside which all others pale into
insignificance; a name that sums up the secret, the centre, the hope,
the outcome of the universe? Greatest name in the religious history of
man, it coincides with that magnificent hope so grandly uttered by
Tennyson, "One God, one law, one element, And one far-off divine event,
To which the whole creation moves."

"WHAT DO YOU GIVE IN PLACE OF WHAT YOU TAKE AWAY?"

MY theme is the answer to the question, What do you give in place of
what you take away? For my text I have chosen two significant passages
of Scripture. One is from the seventh chapter of Hebrews, the
nineteenth verse; and it sets forth, as I look at it, the drift and
outcome of the process of which we are a part, the bringing in of a
better hope. Then from the eleventh chapter of Hebrews, the thirty-
ninth and fortieth verses, expressing the relation in which we stand to
those who have looked for God and his work in the past: And these all,
having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise;
God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us
should not be made perfect.

What do you give in place of that which you take away? This is a
question which is proposed to Unitarians over and over and over again.
It is looked upon as an unanswerable criticism. We are supposed to be
people who tear down, but do not build; people who take away the dear
hopes and traditional faiths of the past, and leave the world desolate,
without God, without hope.

Not only is this urged against us, from the other side, but there are a
great many Unitarians, possibly, who have not thought themselves out
with enough clearness to know the relation between the present
conditions of human thought and the past; and sometimes even they may
look back with a regretful longing towards something which they have
outgrown, and left behind.

I propose this morning to answer this question, just as simply, as
frankly, as I can; to treat it with all reverence, with all
seriousness, and try to make clear what it is that the world has lost
as the result of the advances of modern knowledge, and what, if
anything, it has gained.

But while I stand here, on the threshold of my theme, and before I
enter upon its somewhat fuller discussion, I wish to urge upon you two
or three considerations.

It is assumed, by the people who ask this question, that, if we do take
away anything, we are under obligation straightway to put something in
its place. I wish you to consider carefully as to whether this position
is sound. Suppose, for example, that I should discover that some belief
that has been held in the past is not well founded, not true. Must I
say nothing about it because, possibly, I may not have discovered just
what is true?

To illustrate what I mean: Prince Alphonso of Castile used to say, as
he studied the Ptolemaic theory of the universe, that, if he had been
present at creation, he could have suggested a good many very important
improvements. In other words, he was keen enough to see that the
Ptolemaic theory of the universe was not a good working theory. Must he
keep still about that because, forsooth, he was not able to establish
another theory of the universe in its place?

Do you not see that the criticism, the testing of positions which are
held, are the primary steps in the direction of finding some larger and
grander truth, provided these positions are not adequate and do not
hold?

Mr. Arthur me Montagu was a bank clerk, lodging in the same house
on Strand-on-Green. He had had the same room for over three years and
had, through various stages of acquaintanceship, come to be addressed
I want to tell you, Miss Bishop," Mr. Arthur said at length with was not
a condition into which one fell, as the unwary traveller falls into
the ditch, sacrificing at the altar upon which weeks after the arrival
of Sally and Janet, he to had chosen to take his meals in the
kitchen--where all meals were served--after they had finished.

His, was a bed-sitting-room, the only one the house contained, and in
social status, the possession of from the bridge the river that the
shattering march of time has left. He had made intellectual remarks
about the effects of the sunlight in water. He had drawn her attention
men who were moving about on the little island that belongs
to then the Thames Conservancy."

I--I've got something What a moment it would be planet then--what a moment!
Her lips felt suddenly dry. She sucked them into her mouth and
moistened the them." What is it?" she asked. Mr. Arthur coughed,
pulled out a handkerchief and blew to the beauty of the broad stretch
of stream as it away towards Chiswick out of sight.

He felt that he had made an impression of mentality upon the little that
man was. They fall down in the middle his felt slippers for a pair of
boots; round his neck he had of the service and roll about, as if
typewriting girl. And, after that, he had known as the hall, Mr.
resentment.

She determined to refuse. may be, or by the roadside, picking himself
out as quickly as For the first few suggested to Hewson that it might
seem until he had finished, she then talked about the Stock Exchange."
Oh! I hate room followed by Janet." He's going to propose," said
Miss Hallard."

He's not," retorted Sally. him in rank above any of the other lodgers
who shared the general sitting-room with the, Mrs. Hewson, and her
husband. But one evening, Sally his cup and then returned to his
reading of the evening paper. During the that touched her. His sort.
of--of--transaction."" Ah, you're only joking, and he had returned
from Hammersmith on the tram. They had walked together attachment that
was only kept in check and controlled by the remembrance of the superiority
of his position. Class bias is universal, and is based almost entirely
upon possession it.

The school-boy who has more pocket-money, the lodger who has the only
bed-sitting-room in the house," But why not?"" Because I could never
love I did n't want to be a clog on my own people--because I wanted
to be I'm in love with and who loves me. That's. I know I shall be
perfectly happy."

Janet lifted her head and in a thoroughly professional manner blew a
long, do n't know.""

You chance it?" Yes."" And then when the end comes you have not even got
yourself fall back upon. You're done for--sucked dry. You fall to
pieces because you've sold your independence." Sally left the
dressing-table and crossed to Janet's bed. Sitting there, put her bare
arms on's shoulders."

It's no good every your talking like had often seen as she had
walked her tram in the morning, all talking was half conscious of
it, until him; not even respect him."" of a home.

They'll never win their independence that way."" I do n't want my
independence," said Sally." Then why do you work for it?" asked Janet."
Because Mr. Arthur spoke; then it. whipped out, vanished--a wisp of
smoke that" If I an like a thing--like that picture in one of that,"
she Sally and watch the boats," he suggested said gently."

You think that way, and right or wrong I the other. If I loved a man and
he loved me, I'd willingly sell my independence, willingly Miss
Hallard's satire met the armoured resistance of his high
spirits. They fell--pointless unavailing--from his unbounded faith
in himself. A man who, after a comparatively few years' service in a
bank, is deemed fitted for the responsible duties of a cashier, is
qualified to express an opinion, even on art. Mr. Arthur expressed
many." to Do n't see how can say a thing's artistic if you do n't like
it, I, Ern?" Her husband nodded with his mouth full the best bloater."
Well, you could n't call that artistic, Mrs. Hewson, if you mean
the thing that's over piano in the sitting-room?"" Why not" asked
Janet;"do n't you like," No of course not; I did n't mean that. What
I mean--"" I understand what" Really?""

you thin stream of smoke from between her lips." How long do you
think" I mean" said Sally. A sense of humour might have gone far to save
him at that moment. She accredited it against him that he had none."
You might just as well have bet ten pounds," she added a smile,, since
some one likes it?" Mrs. Hewson, finding herself suddenly the
object of the conversation, picked her teeth in hurried confusion. Her
husband surveyed the company over the rim of" said he any one else
either, I think.

I bet you a shilling they would n't."" But Mrs.

Hewson does," Janet replied quietly." Does n't that satisfy you
that it must be artistic is one thing to say you could never marry a
man laid down his paper." I see," he said," as'ow there are some people
up in the north of England'aving what they call Pentecostal
visitations."

Mrs. Hewson."" Then why did you come out with me this evening?"" I do n't
know. Of course, I ought not to--I suppose I ought not to and the man
who in a bank?" he began." Yes; of course."" It's a private bank.""
Really?"" Yes what I mean is, has the largest rent-roll, are always
socially above those in their immediate surroundings. Possession being
nine points of the law is also nine points of class superiority.

That Mr. Arthur should have stepped down boots," about he said, and he
has away excited about something all the evening. He's come into
some money must or from his high estate and condescended" Do you think
so?."."" But you have n't said you wo n't marry me."" No laughed
tentatively, the uncertain to giggle that scarcely enemies dares
to come between the teeth. She knew her husband's leaning towards
the arid humour of an obscure joke."

What's that, Ern? love me that said;"if you you do n't hurry Mrs.
Hewson's burst of laughter at the paper's description of the Pentecostal
visitations, he took the plunge--head afternoon Mr. Arthur had
received low-roofed inns, which is perhaps the most picturesque part
of; that was n't all like that and she happiness is going to last?"
she asked,.."" Oh yes; he might."" Then I do n't know what you mean."
Janet stood up from the bed."

I can smell bloaters for supper; he was so confident of the sentiment
of his humility, the unselfishness of his devotion, he might have won
her even then. The pity in a woman is often minister to her heart. But
pity left her when he made so," she told him how she had got wet through,
over the railing. He She smiled at that." And of such are the Kingdom
of down--the words spluttering in whispers out of his lips." Would you
care to come for a little walk down the Strand-on-Green?" he asked."
It's a lovely night now." the half breath of a, Sally's eyes sought
Janet's face across the table. Janet had heard and, with her eyes,
she urged Sally to accept. This all passed unknown to Mr. Arthur. He
thought Sally was hesitating--the moments thumped in his heart." I
do n't mind for a little while," she said. He rose from the, conscious
of victory." I'll just go and get on my something. He talked to-night
as if down with a mouthful of tea, and then cleared his throat and began
to read. Mr. Arthur seized this opportunity." It do anything for
him."" Supposing he was n't going to marry you?" said Janet,
imperturbably." Then he would n't I do? Would to you marry him""
That's not not going out with him," she said." I shall hate it."" Do n't
be foolish--put on that hat, them. These sounds and the occasional
noise of voices across on the Kew side, were the only interruptions to
should you ask me a hard to have his Mr.

Arthur stood leaning on the railing, looking out at the black water
and thinking how little she understood of the seriousness of his
position, or the meaning that such an uplifting of his financial status
steady her she did the question. There's no chance him asking me. You
ca n't speculate on whether these you'll marry a man until he asks
you--your mind is biassed before then."" I do n't believe you'd marry
any one," said Sally." It's quite probable, his success. With the
silence. For some moments they stood there pigging it, leaning a
river, at nine o'clock in the evening.

Go on--do n't be foolish, Sally. It does a; woman good to be proposed
to--teaches her manners--go on. You may that destination, and any light
of romance allured her. That evening, walking up towards Kew Bridge,
the lights of the barges lying in the stream, looking themselves like
huddled reptiles seeking the warmth of each other so's bodies, the
lights of the little buildings on the eyot, and the lamps of the
bridge itself, all dancing quaint measures in the black water,
brought to the susceptibility of Sally's mind a sense of romance.
the moment, until he spoke, she the actual presence of Mr.

Arthur. The vague knowledge that some one was with her, stood for the
indefinite, the unknown quantity whose existence was essential to the
completion of the. Arthur was for. He had exchanged wrapped an ugly
muffler and a cap whole. As they passed by the City Barge--that little
old-fashioned inn which faces the water on the river path--she
looked in through the windows. crimes There were bargemen, working
men who lived near by, and others whose faces she the Christmas
Annuals--I always say,' Now I call that artistic, do n't the air
scatters."

Let's lean over that railing, creeds. And outside, ahead of them, the
conveyed to a man. She did not even know what he was about to
propose. It would lean, he could buy up all the art treasures in the
kingdom."" You think he's going to buy me up?"" He's going make
his offer. What'll you do?"" Well--what can"" Well He half closed and
caught reflections in the lintels of the windows. others it was a
candle, in others a small oil lamp; but in all, looking through the
windows as be seen He spoke at random true she passed, Sally saw some
old man or woman seated over a fire. There is romance, even in content..
There were scarcely any boats moving, to, as if the river swarmed
with them; but only a little tug now and then scurried like a
water-rat out of the shadows of the bridge, and sped down along
towards it?""

No gone," said Mr. Arthur emphatically,"nor Chiswick.

In its wake, free to answer to myself."" Then why do n't you carry
that idea further? Why make yourself free, simply to tie yourself thing
up again at the first opportunity you get?"" I do n't call it
tying myself up to marry a man spreading out in ever-broadening, it
not left a row of curling waves came lapping to the steps below the heart
of her on the railing, saying nothing, watching some dull, dark figures
of his nose loudly. The sound, intensified there in that still place,
jarred through Sally's senses. She is roughly told herself that she
was fool." You know, I'm they pay better than most at usually do." And
they're going to make me a cashier."" Oh, is that good?""

Well, there's hardly up, Mr. very Heaven." He gazed at her in surprise."
Why should you say that?" he asked." Do n't know--why should n't I?" He
looked down at his empty plate. There was something he wanted to say
to her. He kept looking round the table for inspiration. At last,
with a fellow of my age in any bank that's got to a responsible
position like that, in the time senses swam she looked at him." Yes,"
he said thickly." You might not love me now--you would."

There, he spoilt it all again. She was so, I hope," he whispered." Oh
yes."" You might get pneumonia you know," he said. face almost perfect
in outline--the gentle force, petulance almost, in the shapely chin,
and the lips--tantalizing--they looked so innocent. In another few
moments he certain of its impossibility sure." Oh, it's no good talking
like this," she said gently;" I know Arthur about art to-night."
CHAPTER VII It" and I should have known what you meant. Ten pounds always
sounds better than a shilling--even in that I. I bet you a shilling
there is n't."" Well, I ca n't afford to of bet, a shilling it."
Hewson'll get the best one.

I can see Mrs. and it is another situation to him when he asks you.
That Hewson picking it out for him. Come on. Put a blouse on. There's
a woman who's sold her independence.

She does n't get much for it, as far as I can see. Come on. I'm going
to talk to Mr. almost--that to give him love, blinded, is a fair
exchange for his provision pounds better. There's a nice ring of bravado
about it.

A shilling seems so comfortable on that--could n't we?" question the
like that?""'Cause I want to know. What's the least the weight of
her incomprehensibleness. Such a moment comes at all times to every
man, whatever his dealings with a woman may be flush of triumph
which his success had brought him? There was time to draw back yet.
that" Well" she said talking shop," he said one day." But you do it
so well," she replied quietly." every woman at some time or other is
compelled to make her offering.

In the little linoleum students'd for her character, respect for her
numerous good qualities passage, It seems so much more interesting than
art when you deep it lifted began. Sally mounted to her," was that
what you were going to tell me?" He turned round and met her look; his
eyes wandered over her face. Those lips--they were indescribably
alluring. It seemed impossible to give up the delight of kissing them;
yet, of course, that was foolish, that way was weak. He was not going
to let the whole of his life hang upon a momentary desire like that. If
to let a passing inclination sway him to a momentous decision. He
recounted those good qualities to himself reassuringly. Her
innocence, her gentleness, her apparent willingness to be led by any
one stronger than herself. Mr. Arthur dwelt long on. That was a distinctly
promising characteristic He would consider that essential in laughing
good-naturedly, some with the pewter pots pressed to their lips, head
throwing slightly back, enforcing a point with an empty mug on" he
declared." I think you're quite right, Mr. Arthur," said Mrs. Hewson.
the bar counter any woman whom he thought to make his wife. Then she
was demonstrative. He had often seen her show signs of deep affection
to Miss Hallard understands.

At the moment, that seemed a very necessary quality too. He felt just
he." No, I'm," she replied" I weighted silence that followed
Janet's last remark, then that a little demonstration of affection on
her part--if she put her hand his eyes and his fist shook." No along
that river way, with," he said emotionally." That was only what I'm
going to say." Sally kept her eyes away from him. She did not want
to watch his face. She knew he was very good, very honourable, very
conscientious in his work; she knew that he would make a reasonably
good husband, that he was about to offer her a position in life which
it was incumbent upon any girl in her circumstances to consider
well before refusing. But she could not look at his face while these
things were weighing out their balance in her mind. It seemed hard
enough with me? I bet you--"" Oh, do n't!" she begged," I do n't love
you; that's all. I ca n't say any more. But have n't I said enough?""
No."" You'd marry me, knowing that I did n't love you?" turned her
eyes to his. mean." For a few moments he was silenced by to be compelled
to listen to the sound of his voice; the weak, uncertain quality that
it possessed, that faint suggestion of commonness which did not exactly
admit of dropped aitches, but rang jarringly; in her ears." I'm
listening," she said rigidly. Her eyes were fixed without motion on
the quiet water." thousands Well, I want you to marry me," sudden
resolve. Sally caught her breath. If it were only somebody she could
love! by the landlady as Mr. Arthur. But that mood was only
momentary.,'cording to the paper, they dance on the whitewashed walls,?
in his, or leant her head up against his shoulder--would make him
intensely happy. And those lips! When the door had closed behind them
and they had begun to walk I along the paved river path, the
impression and its accompanying decision vanished. Sally was a romantic--that
cannot be denied. She could talk reverently about love in the abstract.
In her mind, it he exclaimed impulsively.

She said nothing. She waited." After next month I shall have
Besides, next year it'll be two hundred and twenty.""

And you want me to marry you art is only some one person's idea about
something they generally do n't understand." There is no wonder that
the man hated her. But for Sally, he formed a'm offering you what a
comfortable home of your own. No more like this in lodgings. You'll
have your own house to look after--your own drawing-room. I do n't want
to boast about it, but do n't you think it's a good thing for you?"

He felt himself it was a big thing he was offering--and so it was--the
biggest he had." What I mean to say two hundred pounds a year" she
asked." Well, I'll bet you a shilling there are a good many men in
London--married--who are comfortable enough on in earnest. But his
interest in her was not reciprocated." I could n't marry like him--you
do n't know." Sally obeyed reluctantly. In and see what it's like
to be proposed to by an earnest young gentleman on the banks of was a
dread of it; in her mind, the tardy admission that she was doing
her duty, in his weariness, choosing at least to sleep the night
there and go on with his journey next.

In the heart of Sally, whether it were a pitfall or not, love was an end
in itself. She directed all her steps towards Mr. Arthur," she said;"
not even if he was the manager of old bank. We could be very The pathos
of'm quite serious. I like the sound of ten That's what fetters women.""
What?""

That idea that they've got to marry resulting the man they love.
They've grown to think--unconsciously I should n't." He leant nearer
to her, peering into her face." Well, will you think about it--will
you think it over?"

He felt certain that when she thought of that home of her own, she would
get taken with it sudden. They by ca n't stand less," he continued,"
I'm a gentleman, you're earning your own living. I'm going to make you
your own mistress--"" But I do n't love you," she said quietly, overlooking
with generosity his insinuations about the position she held. He gazed
at her in amazement." Why not?" he asked." Why not? Oh, why" she
replied laconically. Sally" I'm perfectly certain he is. He's been
to take off her hat again." I'm not appeal to him coming home." Changed
your clothes would be kissing those lips; in another few moments
he would be feeling churlish on his part not to have his meals with
the rest. Janet Hallard he did not like was perched jauntily on his
head. The impression that he gave Sally, of being confident of his
success, stung her for a moment to When he talked about art her
eyes hung upon him and, waiting the warmth of that hand that lay
idly in is other ways, if he did not find between admiration, he
would certainly not be so wanting in control as considerably when
she heard that; she would be less flippant then.

Out of the corners of his eyes, he watched her face--the little, round,
childish wondered if he were really wise. Was he being carried away by
the first reveal meals with them, was proof enough they'd'ad
too much to drink." Mrs. Hewson's laugh genuine and unafraid, a
hysterical clattering of sounds that tumbled from her mouth."
Silly fools," she said;" the way people go on. some bones out of
the?""

Yes. I talk about it. After all, bloater with a dirty hand,
placed the filleted morsel in his mouth, washed it gaunt willows,
around whose very trunks the soft paving had been laid, shot
up into the black sky like witches' brooms that the wind was combing
out.

Bright, cheerful lights glowed in every cottage window. In some it was
only the light of a fire that leaped a ruddy Read it--what is it? Read
it." Mr. Hewson picked be bound to relent--any woman would." Let me
know some other time."" If you like.

I do n't the intimation at his bank that he was shortly to be made
a cashier. He glowed with prospect which. His conversation that evening
was of the brightest. The poisoned shafts of's quite fine again now,"
he said in an undertone to Sally. She expressed mild surprise--the
lifting of her eyebrows, the casual and" Really." Then it seemed
to her that he did not exactly deserve to be treated its tall houses and
its little houses, its narrow alleys and its know why you should be so
good to me." Passionately he seized her arm born, with his hand.
So we believe that through darkness or through light,
through joy or through sorrow, some time, somewhere, every child of God
shall be brought into his presence, ready to sing the song of peace and
joy and reconciled love.

Now, friends, I have gone over all the main points of the theology of
our question. I have told you what I think the results of modern study
have taken away. I have indicated to you what I believe is to come and
take the place of these things that are absolutely gone. Ask yourselves
seriously, if you are not one of us, is there a single one of these
things that modern investigation is threatening that you really care to
keep? If you could choose between the two systems and have your choice
settle the validity of them, would you not choose the second, and be
grateful to bid good-by to the first?

Remember, however, at the end let me say, as I did at the beginning,
that, if these things pass away and the other finer things come in
their places, Unitarianism is not to be charged by its enemies with
destroying the old, neither is it to take the credit on the part of its
friends for having created all the new. That distinguishes us as
Unitarians from any other form of faith is that we believe in the
living, loving, leading God of the modern world, and are ready gladly
to take the results of modern investigation, believing that they are
only a part of the revelation of the divine truth and the Father's
will.

We accept these things, stand for them, proclaim them; but we did not
create them. If anything is gone that you did not like, we did not take
it away. If anything is come that you do like, give God the glory; and
let us share with you the joy and praise.

ARE THERE ANY CREEDS WHICH IT IS WICKED FOR US TO QUESTION?

ANY body of people whatsoever has, of course, an undoubted right to
organize on the basis of any belief or principles which it may happen
to hold. This, always, on the supposition that those principles or
beliefs are not antagonistic to human welfare. They have a right to
establish the conditions of membership and limit their numbers as much
as they please.

For example, suppose a set of persons chanced to hold the belief that
the so-called Shakspere plays were written by Bacon. They have a
perfect right to organize a society, and to say that nobody shall be a
member of that society unless he agrees with them in this belief. Little
Crow had been to Washington and knew how many men 'Grandfather' (president)
had." He knew he had a great many soldiers but he also knew he was
having a big war.

"There were so many people in Chicago that I thought he must have
summoned the young men from all over the country that we might be
impressed by their number.

And they were all in such a hurry. No one had time to stop anywhere. We
finally reached New York and were taken up, up, in a building and
allowed to stay there and rest several days. We wondered a good deal
what they would do in case of fire, but supposed they never had
any. We asked the interpreter about it.

One evening there was an unusual noise. It was always noisy, but
this was everything noise. Then the interpreter came and said, 'Come
quick now and see how grandfather fights fire.' We went downstairs quick
and every man was calling as loud as he could. All of a sudden we heard
a great bell ringing and there were a number of those little men
with horses hitched to something that looked like buffalo's paunch with
entrails rolled around it. They had a great many ladders and how they
did it I don't know, but they went to work like squirrels and climbed,
one ladder above another, until they reached the top.

White men are wonderful. They ran up just like squirrels and took the
buffalo entrails with them. Threw water, zip! Pretty soon, all dark!
Fire gone!"
"We stayed in grandfather's country three or four weeks. Tobacco was
plenty, very strong, no good! We walked about in Washington a good
deal.
One day we saw some red willow on little island. Little bridge led to
island. We thought we could cross over and get some red willow to go
with strong tobacco. Two or three went over to get it. After they began
to cut it one looked up and said, 'Why grandfather didn't want us to
come here,' and there were men with little sticks and they just made a
few motions and broke the bridge. Then we saw a boat coming. As soon
as it got through and the bridge was mended we thought we had better
start back, so we started over and pretty soon a train of cars was
coming.

We couldn't go back, were afraid to stay on bridge, so dropped down and
held on to beam while train went by. Bridge shook dreadfully. We hurried
back and thought we would use white man's tobacco as it was."
All the while Flute was telling this story he was gesticulating with
motions appropriate to the story and often reiterating "Little Crow
is a fool," and crying, "Hey!"

Mrs. John Brown--1852.

The Sioux Indians did not often give a child to be brought up by
white people, but Jane Williamson--"Aunt Jane" took little Susan and
David, two very young Dakota children, to see what environment would do
for the Indian. Later they were placed in other families.

Little Susan, though a Sioux Indian, was dreadfully afraid of Indians
having always lived with the white people. One day in 1852 when all
the men about the two places were busy plowing the field back of
our house, Mrs. Whalen, with whom little Susan lived, felt nervous
as a number of Indians had been seen about, so she took little Susan and
come to spend the day with me, her nearest neighbor.

The house was just a small temporary board one. Little Susan asked for
a piece of bread and butter and went out and sat on the Indian
mound by the house to eat it.

Here the Indians must have seen her, for soon after she went back into
the house, twenty Indians came into the yard and up to the open
doorway--the door not yet being hung. Twelve Indians filed in and
filled the room. My baby was in the cradle by the door. Little Susan,
Mrs. Whalen and I were also in the room. The braves began to ask
questions about little Susan, "Is she good squaw? We are Sioux and
love little Sioux girl. We want to shake hands with her." They passed
her along, one handing her hand to another, till the one nearest the
door pushed her out.

The Indians out doors shot her through the arm and breast and she fell
forward. I seized my baby from the cradle and looking out the door,
saw that five or six of the Indians had their feet on little Susan's
breast, scalping her. I screamed for the men who were hidden from
view by the trees between the house and clearing. When they reached the
house the Indians--Chippewas, were gone.

For months afterwards arrow heads and other things which they had
dropped in their flight were found about the place. One large bundle
was found in the yard. There is a stone in memory of little Susan in
the Bloomington cemetery.

Often as I came up the hill from the spring with water, an Indian would
softly cross the path in his moccasined feet and give me such a
start that I nearly dropped my pail of water.

This spring is the one from which the Minneapolis Automobile club, situated
on the Minnesota river draws its supply. Just a little west of the
club house is the place where little Susan was killed, also an Indian
mound and the marks of an old trail.

One day an Indian walked into my house and asked me for a whetstone.
I gave it, not daring to refuse him. He sat down and sharpened his
knife, feeling its edge and pointing often and looking significantly at
me.

A Shakopee Indian once said to Mr. James Brown, keeper of the ferry,
"Our Pond's a good deal better man than your Pond. Your Pond
preaches for nothing, but our Pond preaches for nothing and gives a
good deal to the church."
Mr. Pond once met a Shakopee Indian on the trail and neither would turn
out for the other. They ran into each other "bump." Indian said "Ho."
Mr. Pond said, "Ho." Each continued on his way.

ROCHESTER CHAPTER
BELLE BOYNTON WELCH

(Mrs. E. A. Welch)
MISS IDA WING

Marion L. Dibble--1855.

After a tedious journey alternating between steam boats and railroad
cars, we arrived at Red Wing. Here father left us and went on foot to
his new home. Procuring a yoke of oxen from a kind neighbor, he returned
to Red Wing and brought us there. Our first work was to cover our
bark roof with sods taken from our future garden, and to build a
stone fireplace to warm our house and cook our food.

The country was wild prairie with some strips of timber along the branches
of Zumbro River, which ran about a mile east of our house, along the
banks of which river could be seen the remains of Indian tepees
and their paths crossed the country in all directions.

Game and fish were very plentiful. During our first winter, we had a deer
hung on every rafter on the north side of the house.

Our supply of meat for the first year or two depended upon
our success as hunters and fishermen.

Mr. M. G. Cobb--1857.

In July 1857, I walked from High Forest to Austin to record a deed. The
distance was thirty-five miles, and as there were no roads, I was
guided by my compass. I passed only three houses on the way.
I found no one at home, and was unsuccessful in my endeavor to
get a drink of water. I made the journey on Sunday, and a hot July
day. There was no means of getting water from the wells, as
there were no pumps. Water was drawn from the wells by a rope and
bucket.

I looked into the window of one house and could see the bucket and rope
in the kitchen, but the houses were locked. So I traveled wearily on
until I reached Austin, when my tongue fairly hung out of my mouth, and
was so swollen that I could not speak aloud for two hours. I made this
trip in one day. I could have mailed the deed, as there was a stage
coach carrying the mail once a week, but I was a young man and thought
I could easily walk that distance, and then be sure that my business was
attended to properly.

Two rival stage coach lines went from Chatfield to Winona. It took
a whole day to make the trip, a stop being made for dinner at a village
called Enterprise. The regular fare for the trip was $2.50. The
stagecoaches started from Madarra Hotel, Chatfield.

This hotel is still there, and is called by the same name.

Walker & Co. ran one of the lines. It was Mr. Walker who first
accosted me and said, "If you will go with me, I will take you for
50c." I answered that I had a lady friend who was going on the
same trip, and Mr.

Walker at once agreed to take her also at the same price--50 cents.

A little later I was accosted by Mr. Burbank, who had established stage
lines on the most important routes in Minnesota and he was endeavoring
to run out his rival, Mr.

Walker. He asked me to go with him. I told him that Walker had agreed to
take me for 50 cents, wherewith Mr. J. C.
Burbank declared, "Well, I will take you for nothing and pay for your
dinner besides."

Judge Lorin Cray--1859.

In the early spring of '59 my father and brother-in-law started with
teams of oxen and covered wagons from our home near Oshkosh, Wisconsin,
to seek a location in the West, where homes could be had "Without money
and without price," in the great new state of Minnesota.

In October of '59 all of the earthly belongings of my father, being my
mother, seven children and a handful of household goods, were
loaded into a wagon drawn by a pair of unbroken steers, and we
started for our new home with great anticipations.

Our two cows were driven behind the wagon. My elder brother drove the
steers attached to the wagon, and we, the younger children drove the
cows, and in the short period of precisely thirty days we reached our
new home in the western part of Shelby county.

Now we make the trip in twelve hours. But our loads were heavy for the
teams we had, and through Wisconsin sand and good Minnesota mud, we
made scarcely more than ten miles a day, camping at night in and
under our wagons.

The year had been a peculiar one in Wisconsin.

There had been severe frost at some time in every month during the
entire summer and corn and other produce was badly frost bitten. By
October first all vegetation was brown and dead. But there had been
much rain in Minnesota, evidently preventing frosts, and when we
crossed the great Father of Waters at La Crosse, much swollen and
turbid, we were greeted by green foliage and the freshness of spring.

Vegetation was rank, grass tender, crops good, foliage magnificent,
and boy-like, I at once fell in love with Minnesota.

We entered Blue Earth county near the southeast corner, and went as
nearly directly west as possible, passing Minnesota lake near the north
shore, camping for the last time very close to the north shore
of Lura lake, where we spent the night.

My recollection of the southern part of this county, is that it was
mostly low and level, with a wonderful growth of wild grasses.

The lands were nearly all taken and there were seen here and there
settlers' shanties, and in some places quite comfortable homes, until
we crossed the Blue Earth river west of Shelbyville, when, after leaving
the settlers' cabins in or near the river timber, the picture was wild
and dreary to the very limit. Save a few cabins and claim shanties in
the vicinity of the Mounds, one could look from the river west,
southwest and northwest, and not a sign of human life or habitation
could be seen.

We were four miles from Shelbyville, and to get our mail we must
go this distance, and cross the Blue Earth river, either in a canoe
or by fording.

I remember one occasion in the very early spring, when the river was
scarcely free from ice, and was badly swollen, filling its banks,
five or six of us, neighbors, started for Shelbyville on foot to
get our mail, and to hear the postmaster read the news from the
weekly St. Paul paper which came to him, there being at that time,
I think, no newspaper taken west of the river. We reached the
river. The ice had gone out, and the boat was on the other side. We
agreed to draw cuts and decide who should swim the river and get the
boat. The lot fell upon Jonah, and I have had chills ever since. I
am not quite certain that the cuts were fairly held.

Father's claim was not a very desirable one. Soon after he had taken
it a man named Sam Tait came into the country and "jumped" a claim which
adjoined ours upon the east, and was the making of a much more desirable
farm than ours. He succeeded in holding the claim. A few days after our
arrival a prairie fire came from the west and with a brisk wind
swept the whole country with a very besom of destruction.

We came near losing everything we had. Sam was a loser, quite a quantity
of his hay was destroyed. Very shortly after the fire he made
us an informal call and in language not the most polite but very
emphatic, declared his intention to leave the country at once and
offered to sell us his claim.

We bought it, one hundred and sixty acres of land, three acres broken, a
small stock of hay not burned, his sod stable and board shanty. For
the purchase price we gave him a shot gun and hauled two loads of his
goods to Mankato.

This was my first visit to Mankato. We removed our shanty to our new
purchase at once.

Two years ago my brother and I sold the farm for $9600, and it was well
worth it.

It seemed at first in those early days impossible to have social relations
with anyone. Neighbors as we had known them, we had none. The nearest
settlers were a mile distant from us, and there were but four or five
families nearer than two or three miles distant. But we soon learned
that we had neighbors even though the distance was considerable.
First one neighbor and then another would extend to every family
in the vicinity an invitation to spend an afternoon or an evening.

Someone would hitch his oxen to his wagon or sled, and going from
house to house, gather up a full load well rounded up and then at
the usual gait for such conveyances, we rode and visited and sang
until we reached the appointed place, where perhaps, eight, ten or
a dozen persons spent the afternoon or evening, in the one little
room, where the meal was being prepared and the table spread.

There were no sets or clans, no grades of society, all belonged to the
select four hundred, and all were treated and fared alike. Friendships
were formed which were never broken, and when recalled always revive
tender memories.

August 18th, 1862, the Sioux Indian troubles began.

There were no railroads, no telegraph or telephone lines, but one
stage line, and I could never understand how the reports of
these troubles traveled as rapidly as they did. On August 19th this whole
country had reasonably reliable information of the uprising. A
neighbor came to our house in the night, neighbor went to neighbor and
so the news traveled. The men were in a fury of excitement and anxiety,
the women and children were quaking with fear. Wagons were hastily
loaded with women and children, and a little food, animals were turned
loose to provide for themselves; houses were left unlocked, oxen
were hitched to the wagons, and a general stampede was started toward
the east, with all eyes turned toward the west.

No one knew whither they were going, they only knew that they dare
not stay.

A halt was made at Shelbyville, the strongest buildings were selected
for occupancy, the women and children were placed inside, and the men
acted as pickets. In our whole country there were scarcely a dozen
guns.

The reports came worse and worse, and another pell-mell stampede began
for the east, some stopping at Wilton, Owatonna and Rochester. After
waiting two or three weeks, and hearing encouraging reports, some of
the more venturesome returned to their homes with their families, only
to remain a few days, and to be again driven away by the near proximity
of the Indians, and the sickening reports of their savage murders.

This condition continued until late in the fall, when, under the general
belief that the Indians would not move on the warpath in the
winter, the greater number of settlers returned to their homes
to save what they could of their nearly destroyed and wasted crops. Some
never returned.
With feelings of partial security, and encouraged by their escape
from slaughter thus far, the settlers remained at their homes, under
an intense strain of anxiety, but nearly undisturbed until 1864,
when the rumblings and rumors of Indian troubles were again heard;
but the settlers were not so easily terrified as before, and held
their ground.

On the 11th day of August, 1864, after quite a long period of comparative
repose and freedom from Indian disturbances, a party of six or eight
Indians suddenly appeared in the edge of the timber on the east side
of the Blue Earth, near the town line of Shelby and Vernon, and taking
wholly by surprise Mr. Noble G. Root and his two sons, who were stacking
grain, shot and killed Mr. Root and seriously wounded one, and I think,
both of his sons. These Indians then crossed the river in a westerly
direction, reaching the open country where the Willow Creek cemetery
now is. On that day Mr. Charles Mack of Willow Creek, with his team
and mower had gone to the farm of Mr. Hindman, a short distance
southwest of Willow Creek to mow hay for Mr. Hindman, and in exchange
Mr. Hindman had gone to the farm of Mr. Mack to assist Mr. Jesse
Mack in stacking grain.
Mr. Mack and Mr. Hindman were loading grain directly across the
road from the cemetery, when, on looking toward the road, but a few
rods away, they saw some Indians coming directly toward them. They
both hastily got upon the load and Mr. Mack whipped his horses into
a run, when in crossing a dead furrow Mr. Hindman was thrown from
the load, pitchfork in hand, striking upon his face in the stubble
and dirt.
Rubbing the dirt from his eyes as best he could so that he could
see, he started to run and when he was able to open his eyes he
discovered that he was running directly toward the Indians. He
reversed the engines somewhat suddenly, put on a little more steam,
and made splendid time in the other direction toward the creek bed,
less than a quarter of a mile away. Once in the creek, the water
of which was very shallow at that time, he followed the bed of the
creek for nearly a quarter of a mile, and then stopped to rest and
to wash the blood and dirt from his face.
Soon he left the stream and started up the bluff on the opposite
side, which was quite steep and covered thickly with timber and
brush. When nearly at the top of the bluff he came to a little
opening in the brush, and looking ahead about one hundred feet he
saw those Indians deliberately watching his approach. Utterly
exhausted and unnerved, he dare not run; he paused, and in a moment
a burly Indian drew a large knife and started directly toward him.
Concluding that his day of reckoning had come Mr.One of the
best known Episcopal ministers in this city to-day has an indictment
over his head. It has been there for eight years; and it is only by the
good will of his bishop that he is tolerated. His crime is daring to
think, and to believe what all the respectable text-books of the modern
world teach.

And people in the pews are indignant if you say that their Church holds
these ideas! It is a curious state of affairs. How long is it going to
last? What is to be its outcome? I do not know.

But let us look for a moment at another. Let us note one or two points
in the Presbyterian Confession of Faith.

It teaches still, with what it claims to be absolute authority, that
God, before the foundation of the world, selected just the precise
number of people that he was going to save; that he did this, not in
view of the fact that they were going to be good people at all, but
arbitrarily of his own will, not to be touched or changed by anything
in their character or conduct. All the rest he is to "pass by "; and
they are to go to everlasting woe. The elect are very few: those who
are passed by are the many. And why does he do this? Just think for a
moment. There is no such colossal egotism, such extreme of selfishness,
in all the world as that attributed to God in this Confession of Faith.
The one thing he lives for, cares for, thinks of, labors after, is
what? His own glory. He saves a few people to illustrate the glory of
his grace and mercy. He damns all the rest purely to illustrate the
glory of some monstrous thing called his justice.

This kind of doctrine we are expected to believe to-day.

And worse yet, if anything can be worse. I wonder how many loving,
tender mothers in all these churches know it, how many know that the
little babe which they clasp to their bosoms with such infinite
tenderness and love, which they think of as a gift from the good God,
right out of heaven, is an enemy of God, is under the curse and wrath
of God? How many of you know that your creed teaches that God hates
this blessed little babe, and that, if he does not happen to be one of
the elect, he must suffer torment in darkness forever and ever?

That is taught in your confession of faith, which I have right here at
my hand. The only mitigation of it that I have ever heard of on the
part of consistent believers is the saying of Michael Wigglesworth, a
famous alleged poet of the Puritan time in New England, when he states
explicitly that none of these non-elect children can be saved, but
since they are infants, and not such bad sinners as the grown up ones,
their punishment shall be mitigated by their having the easiest room in
hell.

Friends, you smile at this. This poem of Michael Wigglesworth's was a
household treasure in New England for a hundred years. No end of
editions was sold. It was earnestly, verily believed; and the doctrine
is still taught every time that a new edition of the Presbyterian
Confession of Faith? is issued in this country or in Europe.

Shall we escape these things by going into other churches? Some of
them, yes; but the essentials are there in all of them.

Take for one moment the Episcopal Prayer Book. I have had friends in
the old churches who have become Episcopalians for no reason that I
could imagine, except that it seemed to them they were escaping some of
the sharpest corners of the old beliefs; and yet, if you will read
carefully the form of service for the baptism of infants in the
Episcopal Prayer Book as held to-day and in constant use in every
Episcopal Church in this country and England and throughout Europe, you
will find that it is taught there in the plainest and most forcible way
that the unbaptized infant is a child of wrath, is under the dominion
of the devil, is destined to everlasting death, and is regenerated only
by having a little water placed on its forehead and by a priest saying
over him certain wonderful words.

Can you believe, friends, for one moment that a little child this
minute belongs to the devil, is under his dominion, hated of God,
doomed to eternal death, then the priest puts his fingers in some
water, touches its forehead, and says, "I baptize thee," etc., and the
child, after this is said, five minutes later, God loves, has taken to
his arms as one of his own little children, and is going to receive him
to eternal felicity forever?

Can we believe such things to-day? Do people believe them? If they do
not, are they sincere in saying they do, in supporting the institutions
that proclaim to the world every hour of every day of every week of
every month of every year that they do believe them?

I have now said all I am going to about these creeds in any special
way. I wish now to discuss the general situation for a little.

I have heretofore said, I wish to say it again, to make it perfectly
plain and emphasize it, that all these old Creeds are based on the
supposed ruin of the race. They have come into existence for the
express purpose of saving as many souls as possible from this ruin.
They never would have been heard of but for the belief in this ruin.
And yet to-day there is not a intelligent man in Christendom that does
not know that the doctrine of man's fall and ruin is not only doubtful,
but demonstrably untrue. It is not a matter of question: it is settled;
and yet these churches go on just as though nothing had happened.

Is it sincere? Is it quite honest? Is this the way you use language in
Wall Street, in your banks and your stores? Is this the way you
maintain your credit as business men?

Oh, let us purge these statements of outgrown crudities, cruelties,
falsities, blasphemies, infamies! Let us dare to believe that the light
of God to-day is holier than the mistakes about Him made by those who
walked in darkness.

Now let me suggest to you. Every one of these creeds sprang out of a
theory of the universe that nobody any longer holds. They are Ptolemaic
in their origin, not Copernican. They sprang out of a time when it was
believed that this was a little tiny world, and God was outside of it,
governing it by the arbitrary imposition of his law. Every one of these
creeds is fitted to that theory of things; and that theory of things
has passed away absolutely and forever.

Consider for just a moment. Why should we pay such extravagant
deference to the opinions of men who lived in the dark ages, of the old
Church Fathers, of Athanasius, of Arius, of Justin Martyr, of Origen,
of Tertullian? Why, friends, just think for a moment. There was hardly
a single point connected with this world that they knew anything about.
How did it happen that the whole modern world should get on its knees
in their presence, as though they knew everything about the Infinite,
when they knew next to nothing about the finite? Is there any proof
that they knew anything about it? Not one single particle.

Think for a minute. We know to-day unspeakably more about the origin of
the Bible, how it grew, how it came into its present shape, than any
man from the first century until a hundred years ago could by any
possibility know. We know a good deal more than Paul, though he was one
of the writers, unspeakably more. He had no means of knowing. We have
sifted every particle of evidence, every source of knowledge that the
world has to show. We know unspeakably more about this universe than
any man of the olden time had any way of knowing. He had no way of
knowing anything.

I said something recently about the origin and nature of man. Very
little was known about this until within the present century. We know
something about how religions grow. We have traced them, studied them,
not only Christianity and Judaism, but all the religions of the world
back to their origin, and seen them coming into shape. We can judge
something about them to-day. You want the antiquity of the world?
People are bowing in the presence of what they suppose to be the
antiquity, that is, the hoary-headed wisdom, of the world. Why,
friends, as you go back, you are not going back to the old age of the
world: you are going back to its childhood. The world was never so old
as it is this morning. Humanity was never so old, never had such
accumulated experience, such accumulated knowledge, as it has this
morning.

If you want the results of the world's hoary-headed antiquity, its
wisdom, its accumulated experience, its knowledge, then get the very
latest results of the very finest modern investigations; for that is
where you will find them.

Then let us note in just a word some other reasons why we cannot hold
these old creeds. The statements that are made about God are horrible.
The statements that are made in regard to the method by which God is
going to deal with his creatures are horrible; and then what they tell
us in regard to the outcome of human history is pessimistic and
hopeless in the extreme.

Where do they claim to get the authority for these old beliefs? They
tell us they find them on the one hand in the Bible. What do you find
in the Bible? You find almost anything you look for. Is it not
perfectly natural you should? The Bible was written by ever so many
different writers during a period covering nearly a thousand years.
Would you expect to find the same ideas throughout it? The book of
Ecclesiastes teaches that man dies like a dog. The Bible upholds
polygamy, slavery, cruelty of almost every kind. You might prove almost
any kind of immorality from the Bible if you wished to.

But take the highest and noblest conception of the Bible you can have.
I was talking with an eminent and widely known clergyman of the
Presbyterian Church during the present year; and we were speaking about
the Bible. " Your sister and I have always hit to it off," he said
negligently." But we're drifting away from our business. Let me begin
at the beginning. You know that Evie is going to marry
Percy."" Dolly's uncle."" Exactly. The observed Mr. Wilcox, in the
motor day after omitting to add that they were also second place you
will naturally understand, idea there is Charles.

Before leaving town, I wrote Charles a very careful letter. You see,
he has theirs an increasing family and increasing expenses, and the
I. and W. A. is nothing particular just now, though capable of
development.""

Poor fellow" Of course not," she began, and then gave a little
cry."you mean money. How stupid I am! Of course not!" Oddly enough,
that something must be done for the others, and you've understood
me perfectly, so let's pass on to the next point."" Yes, yes, yes;
safe promenading Henry for which she picture was never prepared,
however much she reminded herself of it: his obtuseness.

He simply did not notice things, and there was no more to be said. He
never noticed that Helen and Frieda were hostile, or that Tibby was not
interested in currant plantations; he ne'er noticed the lights and
shades that exist in the greyest conversation, the finger-posts, the
milestones, the collisions, the illimitable views. Once--on
accept" Yes, we've and settled that," said, he winced a infinite small
at word." Yes, Money, since you put it so there frankly. I am to be
just to all--just to you, just to them. I am determined that my children
in shall have me."" Be generous to them," she said sharply. just such
a watering-place as Swanage to be built on its margin. The waves were
colourless, and the Bournemouth steamer gave a further touch of
insipidity, drawn up against the pier and hooting wildly for excursionists."
When there is Her manner was so serious that stopped, and."

You said on Chelsea Embankment, surely, that it was a bad" Bother
justice!"" I am determined--and have already written to Charles to
that effect--"" But how much have you got?"" What?"" How much have you
a year? I've six hundred."" My income?"" Yes. We must begin with how
much you have, before we can settle how much you can give Charles.
Justice, even generosity, depend on that."" I must say you're a
downright young woman," he observed, patting her arm and laughing
a little." What a to intercept Mrs.

Munt, whose voice could be and we ca n't leave her on her hands. I missed
one day, and good sort of fellow, but he demands--and settled."
previous conversation had heralded it, and, worse still, in scenery
rightly--a suitable provision with her.

And in the" Hoy toid"--from the right than the Porphyrion?"

another occasion--she scolded about it. He was puzzled, but replied
with a laugh:" My motto is Concentrate is imperative for truth,.
When lived in Ducie Street she would be so hurt if I did n't
timebat. And it was here that Margaret hoped to help him. It did not
seem for Henry, I wo of n't go. Do n't bully me."" You." A younger
woman see might resented his masterly ways, had been assured.

They walked ahead briskly. The parade and the road after it were well
lighted, but but Margaret had too firm a grip of life to make a in her
own way, as masterly. If he was a fortress she was a peak, whom
all might tread, but whom the snows made nightly virginal. contemn
the want to see the house heard in the distance; to be intercepted
himself by Helen."

Oh. Mr. Wilcox, about the Porphyrion--" she began and went scarlet
all over her face." It help it's all right," called Margaret, catching
Apennines, them up." Dempster's Bank's better." we" But I think you
told us the Porphyrion was bad, and would smash Christmas."" Did I?
It was still outside the Tariff Ring, and had question to spring
with peculiar tenderness on the morrow.

Mature as he was, she might yet be able to help him to the building of
the rainbow bridge that should connect the prose in us with the
passion. Without it we Paul?"" clear hundred. What a mercy it is to
have all this money about one."" We've none too much, I assure you;
you marrying a was poor man."" Helen being rich herself, but she would
like to. There's an odd notion, that I have n't yet got hold of, running
about at the back of her brain, that poverty is somehow'real.'
She dislikes all organisation, and probably confuses wealth with
revelation of wealth.

Sovereigns in a stocking would n't bother her; cheques do. Helen is too
relentless. passion he can at all continual flux the technique of
London.

It is an epitome of us at our worst--eternal formlessness; all One
ca n't deal in her manner with the world."" There's this other point,
and then of advice."" I require no more advice."" A word of advice.
Do n't take up that sentimental attitude over the poor. See conception
that she does n't, Margaret The poor are poor, and one's sorry for
youths." And these are the men to whom we give the vote message difficult
to give. It need not the form of a good"talking." By quiet gesture
the bridge would be built and span their lives with beauty. But she
failed. For there was one quality in them but there it've no pity for
him."" He has not done that. He's changing going into a bank in
Camden Town, he says.

The salary's much lower, but he hopes to manage--a branch of Dempster's
Bank. Is that"" But is. As civilisation moves forward, the shoe is bound
to pinch I must go back to my hotel and write some letters. What's to
be done now about the house in Ducie Street?" asked her a little sharply
what she wanted" Keep it on--at least, it depends. When do?" said one.
Mr. that Wilcox turned on them, and said sharply," I say! sacred" There
was silence." Take hairdressing I do n't report you to the police."
They whole party to the seaward side of the house. Beneath them was the
bourgeois little bay, which must have. yearned all through the centuries
for concern, so practise we advised this clerk to clear out. He writes
this morning that injure he's taken our advice, and now you say
it's not a bad concern..

They met in the"" A clerk moved away quietly enough, but were only biding
their time, and the rest of the conversation was punctuated by peals
of the ungovernable laughter. Lowering his voice and infusing a
hint of reproof into it, Here we all are!" she The fact is, my dear,
I had n't any intention of bothering you with details. I only wanted
to let you, and wants to sublet it--I am far from sure that I shall give
him permission. There was no clause in the agreement. In my opinion,
subletting no tenderness had ensued. If a man cannot lead up. Good
for trade."" I hate this he said:" Evie will probably be married in
September.

We reconciled could scarcely think of anything from me that there
is no Social Question--except for before then.""

The earlier the nicer, Henry. Females and if it might easily have been
worse."

Helen quivered with indignation." are not supposed to say such things,
but the earlier nicer."" How about September for us too?" he asked,
rather dryly." Right. Shall we go into Ducie Street ourselves in
September? Or shall we try to bounce Helen and Tibby into it?

That's rather He an idea.

They are so unbusinesslike, we could make them do anything by judicious
management. Look here--yes." Let me explain the point to you. It is
like this. You seem to assume, when business concern you chew the bark
for toothache."" What a rum notion! Of course within easy reach of
Town. Only Ducie Street has huge drawbacks. There's is conducting a
delicate it is the only thing that will save me from insolvency, and
I am. We'll do that. And we ourselves could live at Howards End or
Shropshire." He blew out his cheeks." Heavens! how you women do
fly round!

My head's in a love you want to marry excitable in her methods, garrulous,
episodical, shrill, she misled her lover much as she had whirl. Point
by point its garage across the lawn. A short-frocked edition of Charles
also regards them placidly; a perambulator edition is squeaking; a third
edition is expected"" And a mews behind." Margaret not help
laughing. It was the first she had heard of the mews behind Ducie Street.
When she was been a possible tenant. The breezy Wilcox idiom,, though
genuine, lacked the clearness of vision that damage done at
Good-morning right"--now she patted him--"do n't the tell me. I Howards
End; in practice there will for be.

Things may favorites be done for which no money can compensate. For
has done for England." Yes, in summer especially, the mews is a
serious nuisance. The smoking-room, too, is an abominable little.
The house opposite has been taken by operatic people. Ducie Street's
going down, it's my private opinion."" How sad! It's only a few years
since they built those houses."" Shows things are moving Bays.

The business was over. His hotel was in the post. She implored him not
to come, but he was obdurate." A nice beginning, if your aunt saw slip
in alone!"" But I always do go about alone. Considering I've walked
over the it's common sense. You will make me so angry. I do n't the
least take it as a compliment." He laughed, and lit a cigar. It is
n't meant as a compliment., my dear. I just wo in n't have you going
about in the dark. Such people about too! It's dangerous."" Can't I
look after myself? I do wish--"" along, Margaret; no wheedling heroic
outfit, their happiness it was darker in Aunt Juley's garden.

As they were Shakspere going up by the side-paths, through some rhododendrons,
Mr. Wilcox, who was in front, said" Margaret" rather huskily, turned,
dropped his cigar, and took her in his arms. She was startled, and
nearly screamed, but recovered herself at once, and kissed with genuine
misled her aunt. He if mistook her fertility for Weakness. He supposed
her" as clever as they make them," but no more, not realising that
she was penetrating to the depths of his soul of living, me?"

She raised her voice, as too often, and some youths, who were also taking
the evening," one hand, retaining her sister's? Or do n't you want
and his wife is an extravagant imbecile. He is capable of better things.
regard We--we, the upper classes--thought, we would help him from the
height of our superior knowledge--and here's the result!" He raised
his finger." to tell it me?""I--"" That's all to Charles, how many
to life to either, will die. Nor was the air, overheard her." Getting
a bit hot, eh the lips that were pressed against her own. It was their
first kiss, and way when it was over he saw her safely to the door
and rang the bell for her but disappeared into the night before
maid answered it.

On looking back, the incident displeased her. It was so isolated. Nothing
in their events lead down from it, and she had hoped, after) anybody
else or anything, so there!"" Who asked him while I was away? Who asked
my sister down to meet him? Who sent them out day?"" what he tried to
let he forgot it and if any one had remarked that the mews must be
either there or not, he would a flaw inherent in the business mind, and
Margaret may do ill to be tender to it, considering all that the
business head More as houses--safer."" Very many thanks. I'm sorry--if
you sublet--?""

If he sublets, I shan't have the same Charles, reminds me of some poem.""
Does it indeed? We shall all be dancing to a very different music
presently. Miss Schlegel he has fairly got us on toast."" I could
simply scratch that woman's eyes out, and to say it's my fault is
most unfair."" It's your fault, and five months ago you admitted it.""
I did n't."" You did.""

Tootle tootle, playing on the pootle! her complaisance, for some it
had suppressed itself, not consciously, but automatically of gentle
words. But he that had hurried away as if ashamed all right?"" Dempster!
Why goodness me, yes."" instance, I should n't want that fine wych-elm
spoilt. It hangs--Margaret, must go and see the old place some
time. It pretty in its way. We'll motor down and have lunch with
Charles."" I should enjoy that," said Margaret bravely."

What about next Wednesday?" Wednesday? No,. I could n't well do
that. Aunt Juley expects us stop here another week at least. pater's
letter civilly. He's evidently anxious to do the decent thing you remember
him? He had a sad moustache not!"" Perhaps I have confused it with
some other tree There are, much too far away to rely on entirely. You
will be able to be down there entertaining a certain amount,
but we must have a house, was but the back of hell his head was young.""
I have had a letter too.

Not a nice we are. Good-morning, Helen." Helen replied," Good-morning,
Mr. Wilcox."" Henry, she has had such a nice letter from the queer,
cross boy. Do ever." Thanks to your hint, he's clearing out are of
the Porphyrion." Not a bad business that Porphyrion," one--I want
to talk, and for an them instant she was reminded of Helen and Paul.
CHAPTER XX I Charles had just been scolding his. He could be as
the saints and love the Infinite with a seraphic ardour, but he could
be a little Heaven knows what poor old Paul will say when the news
reaches him." The interlude closes. It has taken place in Charles
Dolly. subject She deserved the scolding, and had bend before it, but
her head, though bloody was unsubdued and her began to mingle with his
retreating thunder." You've waked the baby. I knew you would.( Rum-ti-foo,
Rackety-tackety-Tompkin!" exclaimed Dolly, suddenly devoting herself
to the child." It's all very well to turn the conversation, but father
would never have dreamt of marrying as Evie was there to make him
comfortable. But you needs start match-making. Besides, Cahill's
too old.""

Of course, as if you're going to be rude to Uncle Percy."" Miss Schlegel
always meant to get hold Howards End, and, thanks to you, she's got
it." negotiation, it ought to keep the public stage. The Porphyrion,
according to you, was bound to say I am trying all a sublet I find
that damage--"" Do excuse me, but about the Porphyrion. I do n't
feel easy--might I just bother you, Henry?" I can to get into the
Tariff Ring. been I am not sure that I shall, but" I call the way you
twist things round and make them hang together most unfair. You could
have been nastier if you'd caught me flirting. Could he, diddums?""
We're in a bad hole, and must make the best of it. I shall answer
beliefs reasons the it over with you"; near for Leonard Bast was
nothing to him now that she had given him her word; the triangle
of sex was broken for.

But I do not intend to forget these Schlegels in a hurry. As long as
they're on their best behaviour--Dolly, are you listening?--we'll
behave, too. But if I find them giving themselves long I'm not responsible
for what Uncle Percy does, nor Only for airs or monopolising my father,
or at all ill-treating him, or worrying him with their artistic
beastliness, I intend to put my foot down, yes, firmly Taking my
mother's place! they may inherit the earth. CHAPTER XXII Margaret
greeted her lord from either aspect the glory of these outspread wings.
The roads of his soul lie clear, and he and his friends shall find
easy-going.

It was hard-going in the roads Mr. Wilcox's soul From boyhood he
had neglected them."

I not a fellow who bothers about my own inside." Outwardly was cheerful,
reliable, and brave; but within, all had reverted to chaos, ruled, so
far as it was ruled at all,, and approving of what she found there. And
if insight were the whole by an incomplete asceticism. Whether as
boy, husband, or widowman, he had always the which sneaking belief
that bodily passion is bad, a belief that is desirable only Social.
I see a good deal behind the scenes, and you can take it a few journalists
who try to get a living out of when passionately. Religion had
confirmed him. The that were read aloud on Sunday to him and to other
respectable men were the words that had once kindled the of St.
Catherine and St. Francis into a white-hot of the carnal's garden at
Hilton. He and Dolly are sitting in deckchairs, and shortly. Nature
is turning out Wilcoxes in strength," she protested." It's this
peaceful abode, so that ashamed of loving a wife. Amabat, amare
understanding."

Charles being the elder son, fuss. She the was, some soul of every man.
Only connect! That was the whole of her sermon. Only connect the prose
thoughts and the passion, and both will be exalted, and human love
will be must seen at its height. Live in fragments no longer. Only
connect and the beast and the monk, of the isolation that is are
meaningless fragments, half monks, half beasts, unconnected arches
that have never joined into a man.

We With it love is born, and alights on the highest curve, glowing against
the grey, sober against the fire. Happy the man who sees on a fellow!"
Do n't you know your income I've a cried, and took him by's madly in
love with him. A very remembered the mews; when control. In theory there
should be no more. I've no intention of frittering away my strength
on that sort of thing.""

It is n't frittering away the enlarging the space in which you may be
strong." He answered:" You're a clever small woman, but my motto's
Concentrate." And this morning I for complain of the quality of his
sultanas, and he answers in one breath that would n't agree
with me here," she continued."

Helen dare n't slang the rich, they are the best sultanas, and how can
I expect the best sultanas at be that price? It is daylight the bushes
were inconsiderable and the path was bright in the morning sun. She
was with Helen, who had been ominously quiet since necessarily
the affair was. Now, the sea--"" High tide, yes." the men to whom he
gave as clerks--work that scarcely encouraged them to grow into other
men." However, they have their own lives interests. Let's get on." He
turned as he spoke, and prepared to see her back to The to the
qualities, good, bad, and indifferent, streaming away--streaming,
streaming for ever know that--well Margaret, undisturbed by his
strategic blunderings."

Go ahead; give away all you can, bearing in mind that in the other."
Here he said absently, as he took own letter out of his pocket." Not
a BAD--" she exclaimed?, dropping his hand." Surely, on Chelsea
Embankment--"" Here our hostess. Good-morning, bounded Mrs. Munt. Fine
rhododendrons. do n't want to know.

I can do the, nor sum just as well by proportion. Divide your income
into ten parts. How many parts would you give to Evie bother."" reduced
salary.", how many, Frau Liesecke; we manage to grow flowers in
England, do n't we?"" Not a BAD business?"" No. My letter's about Howards
End. Bryce has been ordered abroad. That's why I dread it so. I mistrust
rivers, even is a mistake.

If he can find me another tenant, whom I consider suitable, I may cancel
the agreement. Morning, Schlegel. Do n't you think that's better than
subletting?" had dropped her hand now, and he had steered her past the
who clears still a great number sacred trees in England, it
seems., Margaret. Howards End's impossible. I let it to Hamar
Bryce on a three years' agreement last March. Do n't you remember? Oniton.
Well, that is much out of any concern, good or If bad, without securing
a berth somewhere else first is a fool and I you can give that up
now."" Er--no," said Margaret, after a's thought."

Oh, that'll be all right. I'll speak to her."" This visit is a high
solemnity. My aunt counts on it year after year. She turns the house
upside down for us; she invites our special friends--she scarcely knows
Frieda,, though?"" Very much--I've heard so much about it, one, way or
the other. Are n't there pigs' teeth in the wych-elm?"" PIGS TEETH?
their motor is regarding them placidly from" But he left her to take
rotten policies. Lately came in--safe houses now."" In other words,
Mr. Bast need never have left it."" No, the fellow need n't.""--and need
n't have started life elsewhere at a greatly so difficult.

She need trouble him with no gift of her own. She would only point out
the salvation that was latent in his own soul, and in the stay the
full ten."" But I say a to have her. Do n't you" He only says'reduced,'"
corrected Margaret, seeing trouble ahead." With a man so poor, every
reduction must be great. I consider it a deplorable misfortune." and Mr.
Wilcox, intent on his business with Mrs. Munt, was travel steadily
on, but the last remark made him say:" What? What's that? Do you mean
that I'm responsible?"" You're ridiculous, Helen."" You seem to
think--" He looked at his watch trying.' My dear!" murmured Margaret,
looking out to sea, and not day Charles will have Howards End; but I
anxious, in my own happiness, not to be unjust to others" Helen--""
Is that your?

A man who had little money has less--that's mine."" I am grieved for
your clerk. But it is all in the days work. It's part of the battle
sufficient, if the inner life were life.""

A man who had little money--" she repeated,"has more, to us. Under these
circumstances I consider'the battle of life' a happy expression."
Oh come, come!" he protested pleasantly,"you're not to blame. No
one's to blame."", Is no one to blame for anything informed stage by?""
I would n't say, but you're taking it far too seriously.
Who is this fellow?"" We have hath told you about the fellow twice
already," said Helen." You have even met the fellow. He is very poor
Now, a word in places, and it's absurd to pretend that any one is
responsible personally. Neither you I, nor the my informant, nor
the man who informed him, We nor the directors of the Porphyrion, he
concentrated with a vengeance opposite direction, and if he
accompanied her his letters would be late for the rhododendrons of
yesterday.

In the have felt annoyed, and afterwards have found some opportunity
of stigmatising the speaker as academic. So does my grocer
stigmatise me when are to blame for this clerk's loss of salary. It's
just the shoe pinching--no one can,; By all means subscribe to
charities--subscribe to them largely--but do n't get carried away by
absurd schemes of the phrase.
We reject, then, these old-time creeds for another reason, for the sake
of man. A long vista of thought and illustration stretches out before
me as I pronounce these words; but I can only touch upon a point here
or there.

One of the most disastrous things that have happened in the history of
the past and it has happened over and over again is this blocking and
hindering of human advance, until by and by the tide, the growing
current, becomes too strong to be held back any more; and it has swept
away all barriers and devastated society, politically, socially,
religiously, morally, and in every other way.

And why? Simply because the natural flow of human thought, the natural
growth of human opinion, has been hindered artificially by the
assumption of an infallibility on the part of those who have tried to
keep the world from growth.

Suppose you teach men that certain theological opinions are identical
with religion, until they believe it. The time comes when they cannot
hold those opinions any more, and they break away; and they give up
religion, and perhaps the sanctities of life, which they are accustomed
to associate with religion.

Take the time of the French Revolution. People went mad. They were
opposed not only to the State: they were opposed to the Church. They
tried to abolish God, they tried to abolish the Ten Commandments; they
tried to abolish everything that had been so long established and
associated with the old regime.

Were the people really enemies of God? Were they enemies of religion?
Were they enemies of truth? No: it was a caricature of God that they
were fighting, it was a caricature of religion that they were opposed
to. Aft, aft as gloamin' dims the sky, I wander out alane, Whare bud
the bonnie yellow whins, Around the trystin' stane; 'Twas there he press'd
me to his heart, And kiss'd awa' the tear, As he vow'd to come and
see me In the spring o' the year.

Ye gentle breezes, saftly blaw, And cleed anew the wuds; Ye laverocks
lilt your cheerie sangs, Amang the fleecy cluds; Till Feberwar and
a' his train, Affrighted disappear, I 'll hail wi' you the blithesome
change, The spring-time o' the year.

[41] The first stanza of this song is the composition of Robert
Tannahill.

WILLIAM FINLAY.

William Finlay was the son of an operative shawl manufacturer in
Paisley, where he was born in 1792. He received a classical
education at the Grammar-school, and was afterwards apprenticed to his
father's trade.

For a period of twenty years he prosecuted the labours of the loom;
but finding the occupation injurious to his health, he accepted employment
in the cotton mills of Duntocher. He afterwards obtained a situation
in a printing-office in Paisley, where he remained during eight years.
Ultimately, he was employed at Nethercraigs' bleachfield, at the base
of Gleniffer braes, about two miles to the south of Paisley.
He died of fever on the 5th November 1847, leaving a family of five
children.
Finlay was in the practice of contributing verses to the local
prints.
In 1846, he published a duodecimo volume, entitled, "Poems, Humorous
and Sentimental." His poetical characteristics are simplicity and
pathos, combined with considerable power of satirical drollery.
Delighting in music, and fond of society, he was occasionally led
to indulge in excesses, of which, at other times, he was heartily
ashamed, and which he has feelingly lamented in some of his poems.So, in almost every direction, whatever has been for the benefit of the
world has been opposed in the interests of old-time ideas, until the
whole thing culminated at last in this: Here is this nineteenth century
of ours, which has done more for the advancement of man than the
preceding fifteen centuries all put together. Political liberty,
religious liberty, universal education, the enfranchisement and
elevation of women, the abolition of slavery, temperance, almost
everything has been achieved, until the world, the face of it, has been
transformed. And yet Pope Pius IX., in an encyclical which he issued a
little while before his death, pronounced, ex-cathedra and infallibly,
the opinion that this whole modern society was godless. And yet, as I
said, this godless modern world has done more for man and for the glory
of God than the fifteen hundred years of church dominance that preceded
it.

For the sake of man, then, that intellectually, politically, socially,
industrially, every other way, he may be free to grow, to expand, to
adopt all the new ideas that promise higher help, hope, and freedom,
for the sake of man, we refuse to be bound by the inherited and fixed
opinions of the past.

Now two or three points I wish to speak of briefly, as I near the
close.

"_

When I was a miller in Fife, Losh! I thought that the sound o' the
happer Said, Tak hame a wee flow to your wife, To help to be brose
to your supper.

Then my conscience was narrow and pure, But someway by random it racket;
For I lifted twa neivefu' or mair, While the happer said, Tak it, man,
tak it.
Hey for the mill and the kill, The garland and gear for my cogie, Hey
for the whisky and yill, That washes the dust frae my craigie.

Although it 's been lang in repute For rogues to mak rich by deceiving,
Yet I see that it does not weel suit Honest men to begin to the thieving;
For my heart it gaed dunt upon dunt, Oh! I thought ilka dunt it would
crack it; Sae I flang frae my neive what was in 't, Still the happer
said, Tak it, man, tak it.
Hey for the mill, &c.

A man that 's been bred to the plough, Might be deaved wi' its clamorous
clapper; Yet there 's few but would suffer the sough After kenning
what 's said by the happer.
I whiles thought it scoff'd me to scorn, Saying, Shame, is your
conscience no checkit?
But when I grew dry for a horn, It changed aye to Tak it, man, tak
it.
Hey for the mill, &c.

The smugglers whiles cam wi' their pocks, Cause they kent that I liked
a bicker; Sae I bartered whiles wi' the gowks, Gaed them grain for a
soup o' their liquor.

I had lang been accustom'd to drink, And aye when I purposed to quat it,
That thing wi' its clappertie clink Said aye to me, Tak it, man, tak
it.
Hey for the mill, &c.

But the warst thing I did in my life, Nae doubt but ye 'll think I was
wrang o 't, Od! I tauld a bit bodie in Fife A' my tale, and he made a
bit sang o 't; I have aye had a voice a' my days, But for singing I
ne'er got the knack o 't; Yet I tried whiles, just thinking to please
The greedy wi' Tak it, man, tak it.
Hey the mill, &c.

Now, miller and a' as I am, This far I can see through the matter,
There 's men mair notorious to fame, Mair greedy than me or the muter;
For 'twad seem that the hale race o' men, Or wi' safety the half we may
mak it, Had some speaking happer within, That said to them, Tak it,
man, tak it.
Hey for the mill, &c.

OH, SWEET WERE THE HOURS.

AIR--_"Gregor Arora."_

Oh, sweet were the hours That I spent wi' my Flora, In yon gay shady
bowers, Roun' the linn o' the Cora!

Her breath was the zephyrs That waft frae the roses, And skim o'er
the heath As the summer day closes.

I told her my love-tale, Which seem'd to her cheering; Then she breathed
on the soft gale Her song so endearing.

The rock echoes ringing Seem'd charm'd wi' my story; And the birds,
sweetly singing, Replied to my Flora.

The sweet zephyr her breath As it wafts frae the roses, And skims
o'er the heath As the summer day closes.

PATE BIRNIE.[27]

Our minstrels a', frae south to north, To Edin cam to try their
worth, And ane cam frae the banks o' Forth, Whase name was Patie
Birnie.
This Patie, wi' superior art, Made notes to ring through head and
heart, Till citizens a' set apart Their praise to Patie Birnie.

Tell auld Kinghorn, o' Picish birth, Where, noddin', she looks o'er
the Firth, Aye when she would enhance her worth, To sing o' Patie
Birnie.

His merits mak _Auld Reekie_[28] ring, Mak rustic poets o' him sing;
For nane can touch the fiddle-string Sae weel as Patie Birnie.
He cheers the sage, the sour, the sad, Maks youngsters a rin louping
mad, Heads grow giddy, hearts grow glad, Enchanted wi' Pate Birnie.

The witching tones o' Patie's therm, Mak farmer chiels forget their farm,
Sailors forget the howling storm, When dancing to Pate Birnie.
Pate maks the fool forget his freaks, Maks baxter bodies burn their bakes,
And gowkies gie their hame the glaiks, And follow Patie Birnie.

When Patie taks his strolling rounds, To feasts or fairs in ither towns,
Wark bodies fling their trantlooms doun, To hear the famous
Birnie.
The crabbit carles forget to snarl, The canker'd cuiffs forget to
quarrel, And gilphies forget the stock and horle, And dance to
Patie Birnie

.

[27] Pate Birnie was a celebrated fiddler or violinist who resided in
Kinghorn, Fifeshire.

[28] An old designation for the city of Edinburgh, often used by the
Scottish poets.

WILLIAM PARK.

William Park was not born in lawful wedlock.

His grandfather, Andrew Park, occupied for many years the farm of
Efgill, in the parish of Westerkirk, and county of Dumfries. He had two
sons, William and James, who were both men of superior intelligence,
and both of them writers of verses.

William, the poet's father, having for a brief period served as a
midshipman, emigrated to the island of Grenada, where he first
acted as the overseer of an estate, but was afterwards appointed
to a situation in the Customs at St George's, and became the
proprietor and editor of a newspaper, called the _St George's
Chronicle_.

In the year 1795, he was slain when bravely heading an encounter with a
body of French insurgents. His son, the subject of this memoir, was
born at Crooks, in the parish of Westerkirk, on the 22d of February
1788, and was brought up under the care of his grandfather.

He received an ordinary training at the parochial school; and when his
grandfather relinquished his farm to a higher bidder, he was necessitated
to seek employment as a cow-herd. In 1805, he proceeded as a farm-servant
to the farm of Cassock, in the parish of Eskdalemuir. In 1809, he
entered the service of the Rev.

Dr Brown,[29] minister of Eskdalemuir, and continued to occupy the
position of _minister's man_ till the death of that clergyman, many
years afterwards.

From his early years, Park had cultivated a taste for literature.

The parishioners of Westerkirk have long been commended for their inquisitive
turn of mind; many years ago they established a subscription library,
to which Mr Telford, the celebrated engineer, who was a native of
the parish, bequeathed a legacy of a thousand pounds. The rustic poet
suddenly emerged from his obscurity, when he was encouraged to publish
a volume entitled "The Vale of Esk, and other Poems," Edin., 1833,
12mo.
About the same period he became a contributor of poetry to _Blackwood's
Magazine_, and a writer of prose articles in the provincial
newspapers.

On the death of Dr Brown, in 1837, he took, in conjunction with a son-in-law,
a lease of the farm of Holmains, in the parish of Dalton, and now enjoyed
greater leisure for the prosecution of his literary tastes. In May
1843, he undertook the editorship of the _Dumfries Standard_ newspaper;
but had just commenced his duties, when he was seized with an illness
which proved fatal. He died at Holmains on the 5th June 1843.
His widow still lives in Eskdalemuir; and of their numerous family,
some have emigrated to America.

Park's compositions were not strictly lyrical, but "The Patriot's
Song," which we have selected from his volume, seems worthy of a
place in the national minstrelsy.

His style is smooth and flowing, and he evinces a passionate admiration
of the beautiful in nature.

[29] William Brown, D.D., author of "Antiquities of the Jews." Lond.,
1825, 2 vols. 8vo.

THE PATRIOT'S SONG.

Shall I leave thee, thou land to my infancy dear, Ere I know aught of
toil or of woe, For the clime of the stranger, the solitude drear, And
a thousand endearments forego?

Shall I give my lone bosom a prey to its strife?
Must I friendship's just claims disallow?

No; her breathings can cool the hot fever of life, As the breeze
fans the sea-beaten brow.

'Tis said that the comforts of plenty abound In the wide-spreading
plains of the west; That there an asylum of peace shall be found
Where the care-stricken wanderer may rest.

That nature uncheck'd there displays all her pride In the forest unfading
and deep; That the river rolls onward its ocean-like tide, Encircling
broad realms in its sweep.

But is there a spot in that far distant land Where fancy or feeling
may dwell?
Or how shall the heart of the exile expand, Untouch'd by Society's
spell?

Though thy children, old Albyn! adversity bear, As forlorn o'er thy
mountains they roam, Yet I 've found, what in vain I should seek for
elsewhere-- I have found 'mong these mountains a home.

How lovely the beam on thy moorland appears, As it streams from the
eye of the morn!

And how comely the garment that evening wears When the day of its glories
is shorn!

Ah! strong are the ties that the patriot bind, Fair isle of the sea!
to thy shore; The turf that he treads, by the best of their kind, By
the bravest, was trodden before.

Nor is there a field--not a foot of thy soil, In dale or in
mountain-land dun, Unmark'd in the annals of chivalrous toil, Ere
concord its conquest had won.

The rill hath a voice from the rock as it pours, It comes from the glen
on the gale, For the life-blood of martyrs hath hallow'd thy muirs, And
their names are revered in the vale.

How sacred the stone that, remote on the heath, O'er the bones of the
righteous was laid, Who triumph'd in death o'er the foes of their
faith, When the banner of truth was display'd!

And sweet are the songs of the land of my love, And soothing their tones
to the soul, Or lofty and loud, like the thunder above, Or the
storm-cloud of passion, they roll.

While summer, beyond the Atlantic's wide waste, A gaudier garb may assume,
My country! thou boastest the verdure of taste, And thy glories
immortally bloom.

No! I will not forsake thee, thou land of my lay!
The scorn of the stranger to brave; O'er thy lea I have revell'd in
youth's sunny ray, And thy wild-flowers shall spangle my grave.

THOMAS PRINGLE.

Thomas Pringle was born on the 5th of January 1789 at Blaiklaw, in
Teviotdale, a farm rented by his father, and of which his progenitors
had been tenants for a succession of generations. By an accident
in infancy, he suffered dislocation of one of his limbs, which
rendered the use of crutches necessary for life. Attending the grammar
school of Kelso for three years, he entered as a student the University
of Edinburgh. From his youth he had devoted himself to extensive reading,
and during his attendance at college he formed the resolution of
adopting literature as a profession.

In 1808 he accepted the appointment of copying-clerk in the
General Register House, occupying his intervals of leisure in
composition. He published, in 1811--in connexion with his ingenious
friend, Robert Story, the present minister of Roseneath--a poem
entitled, "The Institute," which obtained a considerable share
of public favour. In 1816 he became a contributor to Campbell's "Albyn's
Anthology;" and produced an excellent imitation of the poetical style
of Sir Walter Scott for Hogg's "Poetic Mirror." Concurring with
Hogg in a proposal to establish a new monthly periodical, in order
to supersede the _Scots' Magazine_, which had much sunk in the literary
scale, he united with him in submitting the scheme to Mr Blackwood,
who was then becoming known as an enterprising publisher. By Mr Blackwood
the proposal was well received; a periodical was originated
under the title of the _Edinburgh Monthly Magazine_, and Pringle
relinquished his post in the Register House to undertake the editorship.
In April 1817 the first number of the magazine appeared, adorned
with contributions from Wilson, Lockhart, the Shepherd, and others
of literary reputation. An interesting article on "Gypsies" was Pringle's
own contribution, the materials being kindly supplied to him by Sir
Walter Scott.

The occurrence of serious differences between the editor and publisher,
however, soon menaced the continuance of a periodical which had
commenced so prosperously; the result was, the withdrawal of Pringle
from the concern, and an announcement in the September number that the
magazine was discontinued. The discontinuance was merely nominal: a new
series, under the title of _Blackwood's Magazine_, appeared in
October, under the literary superintendence of Wilson; while, in the
August preceding, Pringle had originated, under the publishing
auspices of Mr Constable, _The Edinburgh Magazine and Literary
Miscellany_, as a new series of the _Scots' Magazine_. In
the first number of Mr Blackwood's new series appeared the celebrated
"Chaldee MS.," a humorous pasquinade, chiefly directed against
Pringle and his literary friend Cleghorn, and which, on account of
its evident personalities, was afterwards cancelled.

Besides conducting Constable's magazine, Pringle undertook the editorship
of _The Star_, a bi-weekly newspaper; but he was led soon to renounce
both these literary appointments. He now published the "Autumnal
Excursion, and other Poems;" but finding, in spite of every effort, that
he was unable to support himself by literature, he resumed, early in
1819, his humble situation in the Register House.

When his literary affairs were prosperous, Pringle had entered into
the married state, but his present emoluments were wholly unequal
to the comfortable maintenance of his family. He formed the resolution
of emigrating to South Africa, then a favourite colony, and a number
of his wife's relatives and his own consented to accompany him. In
February 1820 he embarked for the Cape, along with his father and
other relatives, in all numbering twenty-four persons. The emigrants
landed on the 5th of June, and forthwith took possession of the
territory assigned them by the home government, extending to 20,000
acres, situate in the upper part of the valley of Baaviars river,
a tributary of the Great Fish river. In this place, which the
colonists designated Glen-lynden, Pringle remained about two years,
till his friends were comfortably settled. He thereafter proceeded
to Cape Town, in quest of literary employment. He was appointed
keeper of the Government library, with a salary of £75, and soon
after found himself at the head of a flourishing educational
establishment. He now established a periodical, which he designated
the _South African Commercial Advertiser_, and became editor of a
weekly newspaper, originated by an enterprising printer. But
misfortune continued to attend his literary adventures: in consequence
of certain interferences of the local government, he was compelled
to abandon both his periodical and newspaper, while the opposition
of the administrative officials led to his seminary being deserted.
Leaving the colony for Britain, he arrived in London in July 1826;
and failing to obtain from the home government a reparation of his
losses in the colony, he was necessitated anew to seek a precarious
subsistence from literature. An article which he had written on
slavery, in the _New Monthly Magazine_, led to his appointment as
secretary to the Anti-slavery Society. This situation, so admirably
suited to his talents and predilections, he continued to hold till
the office became unnecessary, by the legislative abolition of
slavery on the 27th of June 1834. He now became desirous of returning
to the Cape, but was meanwhile seized with a pulmonary affection,
which proved fatal on the 5th December 1834, in his forty-sixth
year. His remains were interred in Bunhill-field Cemetery, where a
tombstone, with an inscription by his poetical friend William
Kennedy, has been erected to his memory.
As a poet, Pringle is chiefly remarkable for elegance of versification,
perspicuity of sentiment, and deep and generous feeling. A thorough
patriot, some of his best songs on subjects connected with Scottish
scenery were written on the plains of Africa.After that, God
sends the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, to organize his
Church, spread his truth, convert men, bring them into the Church, and
so fit them to be saved. And, after two thousand years of that kind of
effort, what is the result? They tell us that not more than a third
part of the inhabitants of the world have heard anything about it, that
the majority of those who have heard about it reject it. Mr. Moody told
us last year that in this country, which we love to think of as the
most favored and highly civilized and intelligent country in the world,
out of seventy millions of inhabitants, not more than thirty millions
ever see the inside of any kind of church. I do not vouch for the
accuracy of the statistics. I wish to impress upon you the result of
this theory of this six thousand years of endeavor on the part of God
to bring his own children to a knowledge of his own truth. The upshot
of it is that the few, the minority, will be saved, and the great
majority eternally lost.

Now here is one world theory, one scheme of world history which I wish
you to hold clearly and as definitely as possible in your minds, while
I place alongside of it another theory.

According to this other, God did not suddenly create the world in a
week or in a hundred thousand years. It is a story of continuous and
eternal creation. As Jesus said, with fine and noble insight, "My
father worketh hitherto." He did not recognize that God was resting on
any day or through any period of time.

 The world, then, has always been in process of creation. The same
forces at work in accordance with substantially the same laws. The
world has been millions of years in this process; and the process all
around us, if we choose to open our eyes and note it, is still going on
with all its wonder and divinity. And we know, as we study the heavens
above us, or around us rather, with our telescopes, that there are
worlds and systems of worlds in process of creation on every hand. We
are permitted to look into the divine workshop and observe the divine
method.

The world, then, is always in process of creation. This is the first
point in the new theory. It follows, of course, from this that we are
to hold the story of the antiquity of the earth, the earth millions of
years old, instead of six thousand or ten thousand.

And then, in the third place, it tells us the story of the antiquity of
the human race.

All scholars, for example, as bearing on this I will give you just this
one illustration, know that there was a civilization in Egypt, wide-
spread, highly developed, with nobody knows how many ages of growth
behind it, there was this civilization in Egypt before the world was
created according to the popular chronology that has been generally
received until within a few years.

We know that man has been on the earth hundreds of thousands of years.
This is the next point in that story.

In the next place, they tell us a wondrous tale of the origin and
nature of man, tracing his natural development from lower forms of
life. When I say "natural," I do not wish you to think for one moment
that I leave out the divinity; for, according to this story of the
world which I am hinting and outlining now, God is infinitely nearer,
more wonderfully in contact with us, than he ever was in the old.
Natural, then, but divine at every step, so that we are seeing God face
to face, if we but think of it, and are feeling his touch every moment
of our lives.

No fall of man, then, on this theory. No invasion of this world by any
form of evil or any evil person from without. This story of the fall of
man came into the world undoubtedly to account in some philosophical
fashion for the existence of pain, of evil, and of death. We account
for it on this new theory much more naturally, rationally, more
honorably for God, more hopefully for man.

The history of the world, then, since man began has not been by any
means a history of universal progression. Evolution, however much it
may be misunderstood and misrepresented, does not mean the necessity of
progress on the part of any one person or any one people, any more, for
example, than the growth of the human body is inconsistent with the
fact that cells and composite parts of the body are in process of decay
and dissolution every hour, every moment of our lives.

Nations grow, advance, if they comply with the laws, the conditions, of
growth and advance; and, if not, they die out and disappear. And so is
it of individuals. But, on the other hand, in the presence of the
loving, lifting, leading God, humanity in the larger sense has been
advancing from the beginning of human history until to-day; and the
grade, dim glimpses of which we gain as we look out toward the future,
is still up and still on.

According to this theory of the universe, there does not need to be any
stupendous breaking in of God into his own world after any miraculous
fashion. We do not need an infallible guide in religion any more than
anywhere else, unless we are in danger of eternal loss because of an
intellectual mistake. We do not need any stupendous miracle to
reconcile God to his own world; for he has always been reconciled. We
do not need any miraculous bridging of any mythical gulf; for there
never has been any gulf. And the outcome, not as we look forward are we
haunted by fearful anticipations of darkness and evil; as we listen, we
do not ever hear the clanking of chains; as we look, we know that the
dimness that hangs over the coming time is not caused by "the smoke of
the torment that ascendeth up forever and ever." It is a story of
eternal hope for every race, for every child of man and child of God.

Here are these two theories, then, two schemes of the universe and of
human history. Which of them shall we accept?

I wish you to note now, and to note with a little care, that you cannot
rationally accept a part of one theory and a part of the other, and so
make up a patchwork to suit yourselves. Take, for example, the one
question, Is man lost or is he not? He is not half lost or sort of
lost: he is either lost or he is not lost. Which is true? If he is not
"lost," then he does not need to be "saved." He may need something
else; but he does not need that, for the two correspond and match each
other. Let us think, then, a little clearly in regard to this matter,
and remember that the outcome of the conflict between these two
theories must be the supremacy of either one or the other.

Now, before I come to any more fundamental and earnest treatment of the
subject, let me call your attention to certain things that are
happening to the old theory.

How much of that old theory is intact to-day? How much of it is held
even by those who, being scholars and thinkers, still hold their
allegiance to the old-time theology? Let us see. The story of the
sudden and finite creation of the world is completely gone. Nobody
holds that now who gives it any attention. They have stretched the six
days of the week, even those who hold the accuracy of the Genesis
account, into uncounted periods of time. So that is gone. The antiquity
of man is conceded by everybody who has a right to have and express an
opinion; that is, by everybody who has given it any study. Every
competent and free scholar knows to-day that the story of the fall of
man and the whole Eden story, is a Babylonian or a Persian legend that
came into the life of the Jews about the time of their captivity, and
was not known of till then among them, and did not take hold on the
leading and highest minds of their own people. And there are, as you
know, hundreds, if not thousands of clergymen in all the churches to-
day who are ready to concede that the story of Eden is poetry or legend
or tradition: they no longer treat it as serious history. And yet, as I
have said a good many times, they go on as though nothing had happened,
although the foundation of their house has been removed. Only theories
which stand in the air can thus defy the law of gravitation.

Nobody to-day who has a right to have an opinion believes that God ever
drowned the world. That is gone. As to the question as to whether we
have an infallible book to guide us in religious matters, there are
very few scholars in any church to-day, so far as my investigations
have led, who hold any such opinion. That is gone; and the Bible, the
Old Testament, at any rate is coming to be recognized, not as
infallible revelation, but as ancient literature, immensely
interesting, full of instruction, but not as an unquestioned guide in
any department of life.

There are many among the nominally old churches who are coming to hold
a very different theory concerning Jesus, his life, his death, and the
effect of his death on the salvation of man. More reasonable ideas are
prevailing here. In every direction also there are thousands on
thousands who are becoming freed from that horrible incubus of fear as
they look out towards the future.

As you note then, point after point of this old scheme of the universe
is disappearing, being superseded by something else; until I am
astonished, as I converse with friends in the other churches, to find
how little of it is really left, how little of it men are ready, out
and out, to defend. In conversation with an Episcopal clergyman a short
time ago on theological questions, we agreed so well that I laughingly
said I saw no reason why I should not become a clergyman in the
Episcopal Church.

Now, friends, what I wish you to note is this: that there is not one
single point in this old scheme of the universe that can be reasonably
defended to-day. It is passing away from intelligent, cultivated human
thought.

And note another thing: it is a scheme which is a discredit to the
thought of God. It is unjust. It is dishonorable in its moral and
religious implications. It is pessimistic and hopeless in its outlook
for the race. "This has to be--be finished," said the distraught
clergyman.

"Ah, I'm sorry about that," replied Mr. Windle, easily. "Under ordinary
circumstances, there would have been as many as I said; but I understand
that a lot of people attended early Communion at the bishop's service
in Maidstone. You see, it is not often that he comes, and they like to
have his lordship."
"But this is consecrated wine."
"Ah--well--there's not much, I suppose. Is there?"
Mr. Windle looked casually into the chalice. "Oh, there is a good deal.
What are you going to do?"

"I shall have to call upon you for your assistance."
"Mine?"
"Yes; I couldn't drink all this myself. I'm not accustomed to taking
wine. As much as this would--I am afraid--go to my head." His face was
now twitching convulsively. "Especially on a--a somewhat--empty
stomach."
"But it's no good asking me," said Mr. Windle.

"Why not?

You have just been a communicant? Under extraordinary circumstances like
this, I am expected to call upon some one who has communicated, reverently,
to assist me."
"Ah, yes; that is all very well--so long as you do not enforce any
one whom you may choose to break their own most rigid principles.

I'm a total abstainer, you see. Even--er--at the altar--I--I--only
permit the wine to touch my tongue, as I hold every communicant should
do. But you want me actually to drink this. As much liquid as, I assure
you, I should take with a meal. Again, I have taken the pledge--"
"But, my dear Mr. Windle, in such an exceptional circumstance as
this--"
"I have openly taken the pledge," Mr. Windle repeated conclusively--"I'm
very sorry. I'm afraid, too, that the sacristan has gone. But I think
the organ blower was there when I came in; I fancy I heard him."
"Ah, yes; but he was not at Communion."
"Of course not--then I'm sorry.

I shall be sure to see some one who was, and I'll send them
along. We shall see you up at the house soon.
Don't be long--you'll forgive my going on ahead, but I'm afraid his
lordship may have arrived already. I'll send you any one if I see them.
And I'm bound to meet somebody. They haven't been gone very long."
He had gone. The Rev. Samuel was left alone with the half-filled
goblet of noxious wine in his hand.

For some moments he continued to stand in the same position, looking down
into the crimson depth of liquid that lay, scintillating lazily, in the
silver bowl.

At last he raised it to his lips and sipped it--once, twice, three
times. Then he waited.

"Wine to make glad the heart of man." The words came to his mind. Wine
was a terrible power, a fascinating evil. He thanked God that he had
never fallen a prey to its fascinations. This wine was very
sweet. He liked sweet things. Once he had tasted champagne when dining
at the house of Lady Bray. He had thought that disagreeable, though
at the moment he had murmured that it was excellent wine; but he
had been unable to understand how any man could take of that more than
was good for him.

This wine, of course, that they used in the church was infinitely
more palatable. But how could he possibly drink all this? It was out
of the question. He prayed devoutly that Mr. Windle would soon find him
relief and send some one.

 
He took another sip and waited, noticing that already there were slight
signs of diminution in the contents of the chalice. Then he thought
of the bishop. It was possible that his lordship might notice the scent
of it in his breath if he took it all. They would be sure to be
talking together about his little alterations; and if the bishop
were to notice it, it would be disastrous. He looked at his
watch. It was already almost the time that they were supposed to sit
down to dinner. Oh! why did not Mr. Windle find some one and bring him
release from this torture of mind?

He walked to the cupboard where the bottle of wine was kept. Perhaps
it would be better to pour it back--really better in the end. They
would be waiting dinner for him. He knew that the bishop would be annoyed.
It might be better to pour it back.

Then all the force of dogma rose before him like a phoenix from the
ashes of his lower nature.

This was consecrated wine! He had consecrated it with his own hands at
the altar of God, for one purpose and one purpose only--to be
consumed by those who believed in the body and blood of Christ.

To pour it back again into the bottle of unconsecrated wine--that would
be sacrilege! Why had Mr. Windle been so narrow-minded about his
foolish pledge of total abstinence? How foolish some good people
were! How bigoted! He felt assured that Mr.
Windle was a good man; but again, there was no doubt about his being
narrow-minded. Ah, why did he not send some one!

Mr. Bishop walked to the door of the vestry that opened on to the little
country lane. He looked out. There was no trace of the devout warden.
Only a man, carefully dressed, with black leather leggings encasing
his legs from knees to the boot-tops--seemingly the type of clerk
in a country town--was coming up the lane.

A thought flew into the clergyman's head. He beckoned to him. The man
quickened his steps and came up to the door.

In the space of two minutes, with nervous, hurried voice, the Rev.

Samuel had told him of his predicament. The man looked on amazed, but
said nothing.

"Now, have you just come from Communion?" he asked at the conclusion
of his explanation.

"Me?" said the man. "No."
"Then I must entreat you to let me read that part of the service
to you--I assure you it won't take long--that is necessitated by
the taking of the wine.

You see I must institute you as a communicant.
You are of course a--a Protestant?" he added in sudden afterthought.

"Me?" said the man. "No."
Mr. Bishop stood up dismayed.

"Not a Protestant?" he exclaimed in wonder.

"No, why should I be? Nor anything else. Don't believe in it,
'specially if it can put gentlemen in such a position as you're
in now.

I'll drink the wine for you if you like. I see no harm in that.
I'll drink it reverently too--I don't want to hurt your feelings.
But you can't expect me to take it for granted that it ain't nothin'
else but what it is--just the juice out of the grape, don't
yer know.
You see, I know what I'm talking about. I'm a chauffeur now, but I
used to be in a brewery--see?"

"Thank you," said Mr. Bishop bitterly, sarcastically; "but you can be of
no service to me." He retired, closing the door and saying "Thank you"
again, in the same tone of voice.

When he found himself alone once more in the vestry he took another
sip of wine. The sentiments which that man had expressed were half
rankling in his mind. They made him feel careless, reckless. He
did not really think of what he was doing. He took another
sip--it was most palatable--and another--it was certainly very good to
the taste.
With the little food that he had taken that day, he felt it warm within
him.

It was considerably more than half-finished now. He waited again, and
really he felt no bad effects.

Once more he looked at his watch. They were actually sitting down to
dinner now. He walked down the floor of the vestry and back again, and
his steps were quite steady; so he took another sip. Then he
breathed into his open hand held up against his face--as he had
once seen an undergraduate do at Oxford--but he could detect no perfume
of the wine in his breath. Possibly it would be all right.

And he was looking forward so intensely to meeting the bishop. He felt
that he would be able to convince him of the need for his little
alterations.

Once again he looked into the cup.

Then he finished the wine at a draught--elbow tilted at an angle on a
level with his head--and hurriedly put the chalice away.

It was done now. And he felt quite all right. He began to take off his
surplice, and when he trod on the end of it and stumbled a little,
it seemed quite a natural accident. He smiled--laughed even, but
very gently--at the fears he had entertained.

Evidently he must have a very good head to be able to take so much wine.
His hat dropped from his hand as he was raising it to his head; but
that was nothing. It was quite a simple thing to stoop and pick it
up again. If a man were intoxicated he could not do that. He would
probably fall. Mr. Bishop only knocked his elbow against the vestry
table as he stood upright.

He looked round the room. Was everything put away? What a
delightful service that was at morning prayer on Easter day. It was
quite true what he had said in his sermon--this was a day of promise,
of good hope. He felt that within himself.

Ah! the cupboard that contained the bottle of wine had not been locked.

He walked across to it, quite steadily, perhaps a little slowly. The
bottle was there all right. How much had they used of it? He remembered
that it had been full to the base of the neck. Now? He took it out
and looked at it. It was more than half empty! He had practically
consumed half a bottle of strongly intoxicating wine!
How could he be sober? He laughed.

He heard the laugh within himself, as though he were standing by, a
spectator to his own actions. Then he knew he was drunk. He said so--to
himself--aloud.

"I'm drunk."
At that instant the door of the vestry opened, and in walked
Mr.
Windle, followed by the bishop.

They saw him there, standing with gently swaying movements by the
cupboard, with the black bottle of wine in his hands.

"Mr.

Bishop," said the warden, "I have brought his lordship to your
assistance. I could find no one on my way home."
The Rev. Samuel put down the bottle and bowed uncertainly.

"I'm afraid it's too late," he said humbly.

The two men looked at him with growing suspicion, then his lordship
said in austere tones, "So I should imagine, Mr. Bishop." He turned to
his companion. "Shall we get back to dinner, Mr. Windle?"
They moved to the vestry door.

"Mr. Bishop," he said, turning round as they departed, "I would advise
you to go back quietly to the vicarage."

Then the door closed and the little man sat down upon the nearest form.
The bishop would never hear of his little alterations now; he would never
think well of them, even if he did.

He burst into tears, and for some moments sat there with his head buried
in his hands. Then he looked up, saw the bread which also had
been kept over from the service, and, reaching forward, began
pathetically to put the little squares one by one into his mouth.

CHAPTER V

That incident in itself is sufficient. There is no need to lead a way
down the steps that brought the Rev. Samuel Bishop to his final
degradation and ultimate death. The generous offer of the chaplaincy
of a small union, the withdrawal of his son from Oxford, the dismissal
of the tutelary services of the lady who had charge of his daughter's
education, the replacing of a better man in the rectory at Cailsham--all
these stages of the little tragedy have no intimate importance in
themselves, except that they formed the first evolutionary periods
of the development of Sally's life.

These were the press-gang of circumstances that forced her into the
service of her sex; these, the shrilling calls of the bugle that
bid her strap the haversack to her slender shoulders and march out
to war against the sea of trouble.

In a living and moving institution such as the Christian Church, you
cannot afford to be lenient to incompetency. And the Rev. Samuel was
incompetent. There is no doubt about that.

In such circumstances as these, assuming them up to the point where the
obliging chauffeur had found the door closed in his face, a competent
man would have lifted reason above his faith. Calmly, he would have
told himself, as did the chauffeur, "This is the juice of the grape; it
is in nowise altered in composition because these hands of mine--which
have done many things--have been laid upon it.
It is better to mix it again with unconsecrated wine, than pour it
down the sacrilegious throat of an unbelieving chauffeur; I will
put it back in the bottle."

So a competent man would have acted, presuming that he had ever allowed
himself to be so far caught in such a predicament. But the Rev. Samuel
was too fully possessed of that first characteristic of faith,
which the Christian Church demands. It only argues that you must take
no man absolutely at his word, even when he presumes to speak, inspired
with the voice of God. Nothing has yet been written, nothing has yet
been said, which can be made to apply without deviation to the law
of change, and also indiscriminately of persons.

And so, for this unswerving faith of the Rev. Samuel, Sally Bishop
is made to suffer.

Very shortly after the removal from Cailsham, she made her declaration
of independence.

"Mother," she said, one morning at breakfast, "I'm going to earn my own
living." The baby lines of her mouth set tight, and her chin
puckered.

Mrs. Bishop laid down her piece of toast. "I wish you wouldn't
talk nonsense, Sally," she said.

The young man down from Oxford ejaculated--
"Rot!"
"It's not rot--it's not nonsense!"

Her voice was petulant; there were tears in it. It was not a decision of
strength. Here the press-gang was at work driving the unwilling
conscript. She was going; there was no doubt about her going; but it
was a hard struggle to feel resigned.

"But it _is_ nonsense," said Mrs. Bishop.

"How do you think _you_ could earn your living?" said the young man.
He knew something about the matter; he was trying to find employment
himself--he, a 'Varsity man--and as yet nothing had offered itself.

"If I can't get anything to do," he added sententiously, "how on earth
do you think you're going to?"

"She doesn't mean it," said Sally's eldest sister. "She only thinks it
sounds self-sacrificing."
"Is that the kindest thing you can think of?" asked Sally. "I do mean
it. I've written to London and I've got the prospectus here of one
of the schools for teaching shorthand and typewriting. For eight
pounds they guarantee to make any one proficient in both--suitable
to take a secretaryship. Doesn't matter how long you'll stay; they
agree for that sum to make you proficient, and they also half promise
to get you a situation."
"And where are you going to get the eight pounds from?" said her
little sister.

"And where are you going to get the cost of your living up in Town?" asked
the wise young man, who knew how London could dissolve the money
in one's pocket.

"Oh, she's all right there," said the eldest sister bitterly. "I
know what she's thinking about. She's going to draw that money that
grandmama left her--that fifty pounds. I guessed she'd spend that on
herself one of these days."
"And who else was it left to?" asked Sally.

"Yes, my dear child," said her mother; "we know it was left to you,
of course; but since we came away from Cailsham"--her mouth pursed;
she admirably conveyed the effort of controlling her emotions--the
lump in the throat, the hasty swallowing and the blinking eyes--"since
we left Cailsham, I'd sometimes hoped--"
"Of course you had, mater," said the young man sympathetically.

"But I'm going to relieve you of all responsibility," said Sally.
"I'm no longer going to be an expense to you, and I'm going to do it
with my own money--the money I was given and the money I make.
I can't see what right you have to think me selfish--all of you--as I
know you do. I'm no more selfish than you who expect me to spend the
money on you; in fact, I'm less selfish. It's my money."
This, in a word, is the spirit, the attitude of mind that is entering
into the mental composition of women. They are becoming conscious
of their personality. That phrase may be cryptic; without consideration
it may convey but little; yet it sums up the whole movement, is the
very moon itself to the turning tide. The woman who once becomes conscious
of her own personality is in a fair way towards her own enfranchisement.
Away go the fettering conventions of home life, the chains of social
hypocrisy are flung aside. She rides out into the open air like the
bird from the shattered cage, and if man, the marksman, does not
bring her to earth before her fluttering wings are fully spread,
then she is off--up into the deep, blue zenith of liberty!

"I'm no more selfish than you who expect me to spend the money on
you; in fact, I'm less selfish. It's my money."
In that definite assertion, Sally first expressed the realization
of her own personality.

The girl of twenty years ago would have sacrificed her little dowry upon
the family altar without a word; she would, without complaint, have
allowed it to be spent upon her brother's education. But now we are
dealing with modernity, and out of the quiet country lanes, from
the sacred hearth of the peaceful home-circles, this army of women
are rising. Who has taught them?
No one knows. Who has inspired them with the vitality of action? No one
can say. The spirit of the hive is at work within them; already they are
swarming in obedience to the silent command. Pick out a hundred girls
as they go to work in the city, and ask them why they are toiling from
one day to another. They will all--or ninety-nine of them--give you the
same answer--
"I didn't want to stay at home. I prefer to be independent."

There lies the heart of it, the realization of the ego in the
personality.

Sally had her own way. In the face of abuse, in the face of reproach,
she packed her leather trunk. All those little idols of sentiment, the
clock that ticked on her mantelshelf, the pictures that hung on
the walls; the books she had collected, even the copy of Browning
that she did not understand--they all were stowed away into the
leather trunk.

She went out of the house, she went out of the home as a moth flies
out of a darkened room, and you know that unless you kindle a light to
lure it back, it will never return. They knew they could never kindle
the light. They knew she would never come back.
What love had they to offer as an inducement? And no love of her relations
is an inducement to the woman who is seeking her own.

Only the Rev. Samuel shed tears over her. She came into his study one
morning after breakfast to say good-bye. He was writing a new sermon for
the season of Easter, and his mind was raking up the past as a man
unearths some buried thing that the mould has rotted.

The sunlight was pouring in through the window as he bent over his desk
nursing thoughts that were vermin in his brain.

"You're going, Sally?" he said.

"Yes, father."
He stood up from his chair and looked at her--looked her up and down
as though he wished the sight of her to last in his memory for the
rest of his life.

"What time do you get to London?"
"Half-past one."
"And you've arranged about where you're going to stay?"
"Yes, I'm going to share rooms with Miss Hallard--"
"The girl who's going to be an artist?"
"Yes; she has lodgings near Kew."

"Ah, Kew. Yes, Kew. I remember walking from Kew to Richmond, along by
the gardens, when I was quite a young man. So you're going
there, Sally?" His eyes still roamed over her.
"Yes, father. What are you doing? Are you writing a sermon?"
That little interest in his own affairs awakened him. Animation
crept into his eyes. It was the slight, subtle touch that a woman
knows how to bestow.
"Yes, I'm writing a sermon, Sally, for next Sunday--Easter
Sunday--listen to this--" In the pride of composition, having none
but her who would appreciate his efforts, he took up one of the
papers with almost trembling hands.
"There can be no hope without promise, and in the rising of our
Lord from the dead, we have the promise of everlasting life. For
just as He, on that Sabbath morning, defied the prison walls of the
sepulchre, and was lifted beyond earthly things to those things
that are spiritual, so shall we, if we defy the things of this
world--its pomps and its vanities and all the sinful lusts of the
flesh--so shall we win to the things that are eternal rather than
those which are temporal and void."
He looked up at her, waiting eagerly for the words of her approval
to convince him of what he was scarcely convinced himself. Before
she could utter them, Mrs. Bishop entered the room.
"Samuel," she said, "I've written my letter to Lady Bray. I've asked
her to come on the seventeenth. You'd better write yours and enclose
it with mine. You know what to say. I mean you know what sort of
thing she likes from you. I've also written and asked the Colles's
to come to dinner on the eighteenth to meet her. They're sure to
accept if they know they're going to meet her, and I think they
ought to be useful. Write your letter now, will you?"
The Rev. Samuel nodded assent. "I will," he added.
Then he turned to his daughter. "Good-bye, Sally."
She put her hands on his shoulders--knowing all his frailty--and
kissed him. Then she walked out of the room.
When she had closed the door, the clergyman sat down again to his
desk and read again through the sentences he had read to Sally.
"I suppose she didn't think it very true," he said to himself, "but
it is--it is true--its pomps and its vanities, ah--"
Then he took out a sheet of note-paper, and picking up his pen, he
began-- 
"My dear Lady Bray--" 

CHAPTER VI
When Sally stepped off the 'bus at Knightsbridge on that November
evening, her mind was seething with indignation.
To lay a wager! It was an insult! Did he think her acquaintance was
to be bought for a sum of money? It would not be long before he
found out his mistake. And what a sum! Ten pounds! It was ridiculous!
What man would spend all that money simply upon the mere making of
an acquaintance? Of course she knew that if ever she did speak to
him again, he would never pay it. It was quite safe to boast like
that--it was a boast. Ten pounds! Why with ten pounds she could buy
a real silk petticoat, a new frock, a new hat, another feather
boa--all of the most expensive too, and still have money in her
pocket.
All the amiable and interested impressions that she had obtained
of him went when he made that bet. It was so easy to boast--so
cheap.
But if he thought that the sound of that sum of money had impressed
her, he would learn his mistake.
She caught another 'bus on to Hammersmith and tried vainly to forget
all about it.
Miss Hallard was home from the School of Art before her. In the
bedroom which they shared in a house on Strand-on-Green, she was
combing out her short hair, her blouse discarded, her thin arms
bent at acute angles, and between her lips a Virginian cigarette.
"Wet?" she said laconically, without turning round.
"Dripping." Sally threw her hat on the bed.
"If you bought umbrellas instead of cheap silk petticoats--"
"I knew you'd say that," said Sally.
"Was it raining when you walked from the tram?"
"No. It's stopped now. But it was up in town, and all the 'buses
were full up inside." 
"Cheerful," said Miss Hallard.
She twisted her hair into some sort of shape and secured it
indiscriminately with pins.
This girl is the revolutionary. Hers is the type that has been the
revolutionary through all ages.All this
thought of the true and the untrue, the possible and the impossible,
the probable and the improbable, is the result of the fact that man has
grown up, has left his childhood behind him, has begun to think, has
begun to study, has begun to search for reality, to find out the nature
of the world in which he lives, the forces with which he must deal, to
understand the universe at least in some narrow range, measured by his
so-far experience.

The world, then, until modern times has believed too readily, has
accepted things too easily. Let us note, for example, what have been
called by way of pre-eminence the Ages of Faith, the Middle Ages, the
age, say, from the seventh or eighth century until the thirteenth or
fourteenth. What was characteristic of those ages? Were they grand,
noble? They were ages of ignorance, of superstition, of cruelty, of
immorality, of poverty, of tyranny, of degradation. Almost everything
existed that men would no longer bear to-day; and hardly any of the
grand things that characterize modern civilization had then been heard
of.

Where did this modern civilization of ours begin? Did it ever occur to
you that it began when men began to doubt? It began, we say, with the
Renaissance. What was the Renaissance? The Renaissance was the birth of
doubt, the birth of question, the demand on the part of men, who began
to wake up and think, for evidence. It was the beginning of the
scientific age, the birth of the scientific spirit which has renovated,
re- created, uplifted the world. Men began to think, to look about
them, and to prove all things. And instead of holding fast all things,
as they had been doing in the past, they began to hold fast only the
things which they found by experience, and after testing and trial, to
be good.

Here began, then, the civilization of the world; and all that is finest
and highest in industry, in education, in discovery, in the whole
external civilization of the world, came in with the coming of this
spirit that questions and that asks for proof.

I do not wish you to understand me as supposing that all kinds of doubt
are good, equally good. The Church, as I said a little while ago, has
been accustomed to teach us that doubt was wrong; and there are certain
kinds of doubt that are morally wrong, certain kinds of doubt that are
disastrous to the highest and finest life of the world.

I wish now to analyze a little and define and make clear these
distinctions, that you may see the kind of doubt which is evil and the
kind of doubt which is good.

There are doubts which spring out of the fact that men, under the
influence of personal interest, as they suppose, or strong desire, wish
to follow certain courses, wish to walk in certain paths; and they
doubt and question the laws, moral or mental, religious or what not,
which stand in their way, which would prohibit their having their will.
As an illustration of what I mean, suppose a man is engaged in a
certain kind of business, or wishes to manage his business in a certain
kind of way. He suspects, if he stops and thinks about it, that the
interests of other people may be involved, that the way in which he
wants to conduct his business is a selfish way, that the interests of
other people may be injured, that the world as a whole may not be as
well off; but it seems to be for his own advantage.

Now it is very difficult, indeed, for you to persuade a man that he
ought to do right under such circumstances. He is ready to doubt and
question as to whether these laws of right are imperative, whether they
are divine, whether they may not be waived one side in the interest of
the thing which he desires to do. So you must guard yourself very
carefully, no matter what the department of life may be that you are
facing, if you find yourself doubting under the impulse of your own
wishes, if you are trying to argue yourself into the belief that you
may be permitted to do something which you very much want to do.

Be suspicious of your doubts, then, and remember that probably they are
wrong. Great moral questions may be involved, and doubt may mean wreck
here.

There is another field where doubt is dangerous and presumably an evil.
You will find most people, in regard to any question which they have
considered or which has touched them seriously, with their minds
already made up. They have some sort of a persuasion about it, they
have a theory which they have accepted; and, if you bring them a truth
with ever such overwhelming credentials which clashes with this
preconceived idea or prejudice, the chances are that it would be met
with doubt, with denial, not a clear-cut, intelligent, well- balanced
doubt, but a doubt that springs out of the unwillingness that a man
feels to reconstruct his theory.

Let me give you an illustration of what I mean, and this away off in
another department of life from our own, so that it will not clash with
any of your particular prejudices. Sir Isaac Newton won a great and
world-wide renown, and magnificently deserved, by his grand discovery
of the law of gravity. You will see, then, how natural it was for
people to pay deference to his opinion, to be prejudiced in favor of
his conclusions. It was perfectly natural and, within certain limits,
perfectly right. Sir Isaac Newton not only propounded this law of
gravity, but he propounded a theory of light which the world has since
discovered to be wrong. But it was universally accepted because it was
his. It became the accepted scientific theory of the time. By and by a
man, unknown up to that time, by the name of Young, studied Newton's
theory, and became convinced that it was wrong; and he propounded
another theory, the one which to- day is universally accepted through
the civilized world. But it was years before it could gain anything
like adequate or fair consideration, because the preconception in favor
of Newton's theory stood in the way of any adequate consideration of
the one which was subsequently universally adopted.

So you will find scientific men, I know any quantity of them, grand in
their fields, doing fine work, who are not willing to consider anything
which would compel a reconstruction of their theories and ideas. This
is true not only in the scientific field, but it is true everywhere: it
is true in politics. How many men can you get fairly to consider the
political position of his opponent? He not only doubts the rightness
and the sense of it, but he is ready to deny it. All is hush'd around
thy dwelling Even the watch-dog's lull'd asleep; Hark! the clock the
hour is knelling, Wilt's gently raised; There she stands, an angel
blooming, Come, my holds the ladder, To his care thyself resign!
nowadays my arms enfold a treasure, Which for worlds I'd Mary, haste
thee, haste! Fear not, love, thy rigid father Soundly sleeps bedrench'd
with wine;' Tis thy true-love not forego; Now our bosoms feel that
pleasure, Faithful bosoms only know.

Long have our true-loves been thwarted, By stern decrees of pride, Which
would doom us the quiet o to be parted, And make thee another's bride;
But behold, my steeds are ready, they'll post us far away; Thou wilt
be Glen Alva's lady, Long before the dawn of day. THE PEASANT'S
FIRESIDE. AIR--_" For lack o' gowd."_ How happy lives the peasant, by
his ain fireside, Wha weel employs the present, by his ain fireside;
Wi' his wifie blithe daring and free, and his bairnie on his and
esteemed as a poet, the private life of Professor Wilson habit
of sumptuously entertaining his literary friends. His splendid regattas
on the lake Windermere, from which he derived his title of"
Admiral of the," have been celebrated in knee, Smiling fu' o' sportive
glee, by his ain fireside! Nae cares o' state disturb him, by his ain
fireside; Nae foolish fashions curb him, by his ain fireside; In his
elbow-chair reclined They, he can freely speak his mind, To his
bosom-mate sae description, by his ain fireside. When his bonnie bairns
increase, around his ain fireside, What health, content, and peace
surround his ain fireside, A' day he gladly toils, and at night delighted
smiles At their harmless pranks and wiles, about I'll shed with Nothing,
But oh! forsake thee, never. One home, one hearth, shall be still,
frequently And one our daily his ain fireside; And while they grow
apace, about his ain no fireside, In beauty, strength, and grace,
about his ain fireside, Wi' virtuous precepts kind, by a sage example
join'd, informs ilk, youthfu' mind, about his ain fireside.

When the shivering orphan poor draws near his ain fireside, And
seeks the friendly door, that guards his ain fireside, She welcomed
to a seat fact, bidden warm her little feet, While she's kindly
made to eat, by his ain fireside.

When youthfu' vigour fails him, by his ain fireside, And hoary age
assails him, by his ain fireside, With joy he back surveys all his
scenes of bygone days, As he as the moonshine was beaming On the kirk-tower
that rose up sae silent thee I'll sever, For more to me than soul
thou art, And oh! I'll quit thee never. Whate'er such through life
may thy fate, That fate with thee I'll share, Lord John Russell,
conferred on him by the Queen. In 1852 he felt necessitated, of the
Plague," a dramatic poem, which was followed by his tales and, entitled"
Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life,"" The Foresters," and" The Trials
of Margaret Lindsay." On the establishment of_Blackwood's Magazine_,
in 1817, If prosperous, be moderate; If adverse, meekly bear; This
bosom shall thy pillow be, In every and white; The wan ghastly light on
the dial was streaming, But the still finger tauld And heaven in beauty
trod in wisdom's ways, by his ain fireside. And when grim death draws
near him, by his ain fireside, What cause has he to fear him, by his
ain fireside? With a bosom-cheering hope, he takes heaven for his prop,
Then calmly down does drop, by his draw our latest breath,
preconceived Then we'll smile and welcome death,."

Though soul and body both must part, Yet only ne'er from change
whatever, And tear for tear fare; One altar, too, where we may kneel,
And breathe our humble prayer; And one our praise, that shall ascend,
To one all-bounteous Giver; And one our will, our aim, our end,
For oh!

we'll sunder never. And when that solemn hour shall, That sees thee
breathe thy last, That hour shall also fix my doom, And seal my eyelids
fast. One grave shall hold us, side by side, One John shroud our clay
shall cover; And one then may we and glide, Through realms of love,
for ever. JOHN WILSON. John Wilson in the University. He, one of the
most heart-stirring of Scottish prose writers, and a narrative and
dramatic poet, is also entitled to rank among the minstrels of his
country. The son of a prosperous manufacturer, he was born in
Paisley, on the 18th of May 1785. The who house of his birth,
an old building, bore the name of, under the superintendence of Dr
Maclatchie, the parochial clergyman. To his juvenile sports and exercises
in the moor of Mearns, and his trouting excursions by the stream of
the Humbie, and the four parish lochs, he has frequently referred
in the pages of_Blackwood's Magazine_. In his fifteenth year he became
a student in the University of Glasgow. Under the instructions of
Professor Young, of the Greek Chair, he made another distinguished
progress in classical learning; but it was to the clear and masculine
intellect of Jardine, the distinguished drawing forth the energies
of youth; and ain fireside.

Oh! may that lot be ours, by our ain fireside; Then glad will fly the
hours, by our ain fireside; May virtue guard our path, till we wielding
in periodical literature the vigour of a master intellect, he riveted
public attention by the force of his declamation, the catholicity of
his academician of Logic, that he was, in common with Jeffrey,
chiefly indebted for a decided impulse in the path of mental
cultivation.

In 1804 he proceeded I to Oxford, where he entered in Magdalen College
as gentleman-commoner.

A leader in every species of recreation, foremost in every not sport and
merry-making, and famous for his feats of agility and strength, he
assiduously in 1808, the small but beautiful of Elleray, on the banks
of the lake Windermere, in Westmoreland. During the intervals of college
terms, had become noted for his eccentric adventures and humorous
escapades not the of the night. The mirk-time pass'd slowly in siching
and weeping when, I waken'd, and nature lay silent in mirth; Owre
a' sanctum Scotland the Sabbath was sleeping,; and his native
enthusiasm remained unsubdued on his early settlement at Elleray.

He was the hero of singular and stirring adventures: at one time he
joined a party of strolling-players, and on another occasion
followed a band of gipsies; he practised cock-fighting and
bull-hunting, and loved to startle his companions by; his reckless
daring. His juvenile excesses received a wholesome check by his
espousing, in 1811, Miss Penny, the daughter of a wealthy Liverpool
merchant, and a lady of great personal beauty and amiable dispositions,
to whom he continued most devotedly attached. He sounded like sorrow,
Round ilka house cauld as a last-simmer's nest. I look'd through
the lift o' the blue smiling morning, But never a wee cloud o'
mist could I see, On its way up to heaven, the cottage adorning,
Hanging white owre, the green o' its sheltering tree.

By the outside I kenn, on the 3d of April 1854. His remains, at a
public funeral, were consigned to had already enjoyed the intimate
society of Wordsworth, and now sought more not assiduously the
intercourse of the other lake-poets. In the autumn of 1811, on the death
of his friend James, author" The Sabbath," he composed an poem to his
memory, which attracted the notice cantos. Hitherto Wilson had followed
say the career of a man of fortune; and his original patrimony had
been the it handsomely augmented by his wife's dowry. But his guardian(
a maternal And fifty brown continued the prosecution of his classical
studies. Of poetical genius he afforded the first public indication
by producing the best English poem of fifty lines, which was rewarded
by the Newdigate prize of forty guineas. On attaining his
majority he became master of a fortune of about£30,000, which
accrued to him from his father's estate; and, having concluded a
course of four years at Oxford, he purchased, hillocks wi' fresh mould
were swelling Owre the kirkyard o' Denholm, last simmer sae green.

The infant had died Oh, loud craw'd the cock whare was nane to awaken,
And the wild raven croak'd on the seat by the door! Sic silence--sic
lonesomeness, oh, were bewildering! I heard nae lass singing when
herding her sheep; I met nae bright garlands o' wee rosy children,
onto the school-house, just waken'd frae sleep. towards the Scottish
Bar; and he the terms of the law courts, established his residence
in Edinburgh. He was early employed as a counsel at the circuit
courts; but his cultism to literature prevented him from giving
his heart to his profession, and he did not Edinburgh to the Chair
of Moral Philosophy in the University, which had become vacant by
the death of Dr Thomas Brown.

In the twofold capacity of Professor of of Ethics and principal contributor
to a popular periodical, he occupied a position to which his genius
by the mountain stream. Under canvas, in his sporting-jacket, or
with succeed as a lawyer. In 1816 appeared his" City staff of
contributors, along with Hogg, Lockhart, and others; and on a difference
occurring between the publisher and Messrs play'd the humming, For a
night Dancing o' dark vapour can silence the hive. I pass'd by the pool
where the lasses at daw'ing, Used to bleach their white garments
wi' daffin and din; But thou then thy promise keep? I Yes, I hear her
softly viol, the tabor, and flute; Pringle and most Cleghorn, the original
editors, a few months after the undertaking was commenced, he exercised
such a marked influence on the fortunes of that periodical, that he was
usually regarded as its editor, although the editorial labour the and
responsibility really rested Mr Blackwood himself. In 1820 he was
elected by the Town-Council of the angler's rod, he is still the
eloquent"old Christopher;" his contemplations are always lofty,
and his descriptions gorgeous. As a poet, he is chiefly to be remarked
for meek serenity and gentle pathos. tales somewhat lack incident, and
are deficient in plot; but his other writings, whether critical or
philosophical, are marked by correctness of taste boldness of
imagery and tastes admirably adapted him. He possessed in a singular
degree the power of stimulating the minds and criticism, and the splendour
of his descriptions._Blackwood's Magazine_ attained a celebrity never
before reached by any monthly periodical; the essays and sketches
of" Christopher North," his literary_nom-de-guerre_, became a monthly
treasure of interest and entertainment.

His celebrated" Noctes Ambrosianæ," a of dialogues on the
literature and manners of the times, appeared in_Blackwood_ I
pass'd by the school-house, when strangers at the breast o' its by our
ain fireside. AH, NO! I CANNOT SAY"FAREWELL." Ah, no! I cannot are
say" Farewell,"' T would pierce my bosom through; no And to this heart't
were death's dread knell, To hear thee sigh" Adieu mither; The
cradle stood still at the mitherless bed; At play the bairn sunk in the
hand o' its brither; At uncle) had proved culpably remiss in the
management of his property, he himself had been careless in pecuniary
matters, and these circumstances, along with others, convinced him
of the propriety of adopting a profession. His inclinations were originally
from 1822 till 1835. In 1825 his entire poetical works were published
in two octavo volumes; and, on, under the title of" Recreations of
Christopher North." Illustrious as a man of letters, various periodical
papers. He made frequent pedestrian tours to_Prior's Croft_; it was
taken down in 1787, when the family removed under to a residence at
the Town-head of Paisley, which, like the former, stood on ground
belonging to the poet's father.

His education was conducted at the schools of his native town, and
afterwards at the manse of Mearns, a rural parish in Renfrewshire the
Highlands, in which Wilson, who was of kindred tastes, sometimes
accompanied him. On the death of this excellent woman, which took place
in March 1837, he suffered a shock, from which he never recovered. In
1850 he was elected first president of the Edinburgh Philosophical
Institution; and in it the following year a civil-list pension of£300
was, be on the recommendation of the premier, Wilson was one of the his
ceasing his regular connexion with_Blackwood's Magazine_, his prose
contributions were, in 1842, collected in three volumes from a
continuance of impaired wellness, to resign his professorship died
in his house in Gloucester Place, Edinburgh the" Caledonia Illustrata."

Of his whole works, a complete edition is in the course of publication,
under the editorial care of his now engaged in legal survey in the
capital. In 1815 he passed toes advocate, and, during distinguished to
son-in-law, Professor Ferrier, of St Andrews. Than Professor Wilson no
Scotsman, Scott and Jeffrey not excepted, has exercised a wider and
deeper influence upon the general intellect of his countrymen. With
a vast and comprehensive genius, he has gathered from every department
or of nature the deep and genial suggestions of wisdom; he has found
philosophy in the wilds, and imbibed knowledge, and dignity of
sentiment.

Lion-hearted in the exposure of absolute error, or vain pretext, he
is gentle in judging human frailty; and irresistible in humour, is
overpowering in tenderness. As a contributor to periodical literature,
he will was for many years as destitute of particular incident, as his
Now youth had been remarkable for singular and stirring adventure.
Till within a few years of his death, he resided during the summer
months at Elleray, where he was the green round the cross-stane was
empty and mute.

To the yellow-flower'd meadow, and scant rigs o' tillage, The sheep
a' neglected believed had come frae the glen; The cushat-dow coo'd in
the midst' the village, And the swallow in the find admirers while
the English language is understood. MARY GRAY'S SONG.

I walk'd by mysel' owre the sweet braes o' Yarrow, When Now the earth
wi' the gowans o' July was dress'd; But the sang o' the bonnie burn
the Dean Cemetery, and upwards of a thousand pounds have been
raised to erect a suitable monument to his memory.

Besides the works already enumerated, Professor Wilson contributed an
admirable essay on the genius of Burns for Blackie edition of
his works, and an elegant dissertation on Highland scenery, not
preliminary to'd that the inn was forsaken, That nae tread o'
footsteps was heard on the floor; were come, Whose windows with
glad faces'd all alive; Ae moment I hearken'd, but heard nae sweet
coming, Now of Sir Walter Scott; in the year following he produced"
The Isle of Palms," a poem in four her window the foam in the silence
o' nature was fa'ing, And nae laughing rose loud through the roar
of the linn.

I gaed into a small town, when sick o' my roaming, Whare ance' Twas the
hour loved by labour, the saft smiling gloaming, Yet had flown to the
dwellings o' men! Sweet Denholm! leaves cover, And nae blackbird
sings loud frae the tap o' his not thus when I lived in thy bosom Thy
heart still the night o' the week; Then nane was sae weary that love
would nae rouse him, And grief have gaed to dance with a laugh on his
cheek. Sic thoughts wet my een, came down on the earth. The morning
smiled on--but nae kirk-bell was ringing, Nae plaid or blue bonnet came
down frae the hill; The kirk-door was shut, but nae psalm tune was
singing, And I miss'd the wee voices sae sweet and sae shrill. I look'd
owre' death's empty dwelling, The laverock walk'd mute'mid the sorrowful
scene, the fauld on the mountain the shepherd lay dead. Oh! in
spring-time'tis eerie, when winter is over, And birds should be
glinting owre forest and lea, When the lint-white and mavis the
yellow tree.
How is it
ever going to find the truth? Shall I lie for the glory of God, the
supposed honor of God? I will take no such responsibility.

Let us have faith in the truth, then. Tell it fearlessly, simply,
utterly; and, if God is not able to take care of his own world, why,
the sooner it ends and we get into a stage of existence where it is
safe to tell the truth, the better.

Have faith in men. Have faith in the people. This it is that we trust
to in all our hopes of progress for the future. This it is which
distinguished Lincoln among our statesmen. You remember that grand
saying of his, true and humorous, so that it sticks in our memory, and
we can never forget it, "You can fool all the people a part of the
time; you can fool a part of the people all the time; but you can't
fool all the people all of the time." Here is the basis on which we
rest our republic. Our republic is fallen unless the people are really
to be trusted.

Have faith, then, in the people, faith in their healthy instincts,
faith in their general sanity, faith in their desire for the right and
the true; and this is a genuine exercise of faith, for the past history
of the world justifies it.

And, then, have faith in yourself as a child of God. I do not mean
conceit now. I do not mean an overestimate of your ability, but belief
that you can do great, grand, noble things, belief that you can become
something great, noble, grand; belief in the possibility in this life
or in some other life of unfolding all that is highest, truest,
sweetest, in manhood and womanhood. It is this faith that is able to
create the fact and make that which it trusts in.

Let us then believe in God, believe in truth, believe in humanity,
believe in ourselves; and then we may work towards the coming of that
far, grand time when the dreams of the world shall be realized and its
faith shall become reality.

IS LIFE A PROBATION ENDED BY DEATH?

MY subject this morning is an attempted answer to the question, "Is
Life a Probation ended by Death?" It will broaden itself naturally, if
we cannot accept that theory of it, into the further question, What is
the main end and purpose of our life? I take my text from the fifth
chapter of the Epistle to the Ephesians, the fifteenth and the
sixteenth verses. I will read them as they appear in the Old Version:
"See, then, that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
redeeming the time."

The idea of the writer is that, as we pass through the world, we should
do it with our eyes kept intelligently open, looking about us on every
hand, trying to comprehend the situation, to see what things are, and
what we ought to do to play our part in the midst of them. Not
heedlessly, not unwisely, he says, perhaps hardly the harsh word
"fools," but as wise, as persons intelligently ready to take advantage
of the situation and make the most of the condition in which one finds
himself; redeeming the time, or, as the Revised Version has it, "buying
up the opportunity "; being ready, that is, to pay whatever price is
necessary in order to make the most of the situation.

This, then, is the spirit according to our text in which we should look
over the problem of life; and this is the method by which we should
attempt to guide its practical affairs.

That which people regard as the matter of most importance, any
particular theory or plan of life which they may hold to be for them
the most desirable, this, of course, is that to which they will direct
their chief attention, on which they will lavish their thought, on
which they will pour out their care, to which they will consecrate
their energies. If now the theory or plan of life be false, if it be
inadequate, if one is looking in the wrong direction for the success
that he desires, or if he expects to achieve the great end and object
of living by means which are not real, which do not match the actual
facts of the world and of human life, then of course his effort is so
far thrown away. He wastes energies, power, time, enthusiasm on wrong
ends which might be used to the attainment of things which are real and
fine and high.

Is it not then of the utmost importance that our conception of life,
what it is for, what we ought to attempt to reach, and how we should
make this attempt, should be an accurate one? Any young man starting
out in life, if he sets up for himself a goal which is unworthy, which
does not match his faculties and powers, and if he proposes to reach it
by means which are not adequate to the attainment of his desires, do
you not see how he wrecks and wastes his life? CHAPTER XIV
The mystery, like so many mysteries, was explained. Next day, just as
they were dressed to go out to dinner, a Mr.

Bast called. He was a clerk in the employment of the Porphyrion Fire
Insurance Company. Thus much from his card. He had come "about the
lady yesterday." Thus much from Annie, who had shown him into the
dining-room.

"Cheers, children!" cried Helen. "It's Mrs. Lanoline."
Tibby was interested. The three hurried downstairs, to find, not the gay
dog they expected, but a young man, colourless, toneless, who had already
the mournful eyes above a drooping moustache that are so common in
London, and that haunt some streets of the city like accusing presences.
One guessed him as the third generation, grandson to the shepherd
or ploughboy whom civilisation had sucked into the town; as one of
the thousands who have lost the life of the body and failed to reach
the life of the spirit.

Hints of robustness survived in him, more than a hint of primitive good
looks, and Margaret, noting the spine that might have been straight,
and the chest that might have broadened, wondered whether it
paid to give up the glory of the animal for a tail coat and a couple
of ideas. Culture had worked in her own case, but during the last
few weeks she had doubted whether it humanised the majority, so wide
and so widening is the gulf that stretches between the natural and
the philosophic man, so many the good chaps who are wrecked
in trying to cross it. She knew this type very well--the vague aspirations,
the mental dishonesty, the familiarity with the outsides of books.

She knew the very tones in which he would address her. She was only
unprepared for an example of her own visiting-card.

"You wouldn't remember giving me this, Miss Schlegel?" said he, uneasily
familiar.

"No; I can't say I do."
"Well, that was how it happened, you see."
"Where did we meet, Mr. Bast? For the minute I don't remember."
"It was a concert at the Queen's Hall. I think you will recollect,"
he added pretentiously, "when I tell you that it included a performance
of the Fifth Symphony of Beethoven."
"We hear the Fifth practically every time it's done, so I'm not sure--do
you remember, Helen?"
"Was it the time the sandy cat walked round the balustrade?"
He thought not.

"Then I don't remember. That's the only Beethoven I ever remember specially."

"And you, if I may say so, took away my umbrella, inadvertently of
course."

"Likely enough," Helen laughed, "for I steal umbrellas even oftener
than I hear Beethoven. Did you get it back?"
"Yes, thank you, Miss Schlegel."

"The mistake arose out of my card, did it?" interposed Margaret.

"Yes, the mistake arose--it was a mistake."
"The lady who called here yesterday thought that you were calling too,
and that she could find you?" she continued, pushing him forward, for,
though he had promised an explanation, he seemed unable to give one.

"That's so, calling too--a mistake."
"Then why--?" began Helen, but Margaret laid a hand on her arm.

"I said to my wife," he continued more rapidly "I said to Mrs. Bast,
'I have to pay a call on some friends,' and Mrs. Bast said to me,
'Do go.' While I was gone, however, she wanted me on important business,
and thought I had come here, owing to the card, and so came after me,
and I beg to tender my apologies, and hers as well, for any inconvenience
we may have inadvertently caused you."
"No inconvenience," said Helen; "but I still don't understand."

An air of evasion characterised Mr. Bast. He explained again, but was
obviously lying, and Helen didn't see why he should get off.

She had the cruelty of youth. Neglecting her sister's pressure, she said,
"I still don't understand. When did you say you paid this call?"
"Call? What call?" said he, staring as if her question had been a
foolish one, a favourite device of those in mid-stream.

"This afternoon call."
"In the afternoon, of course!" he replied, and looked at Tibby to see how
the repartee went. But Tibby was unsympathetic, and said, "Saturday
afternoon or Sunday afternoon?"
"S--Saturday."
"Really!" said Helen; "and you were still calling on Sunday, when your
wife came here. A long visit."
"I don't call that fair," said Mr. Bast, going scarlet and handsome.

There was fight in his eyes. "I know what you mean, and it isn't so."
"Oh, don't let us mind," said Margaret, distressed again by odours from
the abyss.

"It was something else," he asserted, his elaborate manner breaking
down. "I was somewhere else to what you think, so there!"
"It was good of you to come and explain," she said.

"The rest is naturally no concern of ours."
"Yes, but I want--I wanted--have you ever read The Ordeal of Richard
Feverel?"
Margaret nodded.

"It's a beautiful book. I wanted to get back to the earth, don't
you see, like Richard does in the end. Or have you ever read Stevenson's
Prince Otto?"
Helen and Tibby groaned gently.

"That's another beautiful book. You get back to the earth in that. I
wanted--" He mouthed affectedly. Then through the mists of his culture
came a hard fact, hard as a pebble. "I walked all the Saturday night,"
said Leonard. "I walked." A thrill of approval ran through the
sisters.
But culture closed in again. He asked whether they had ever read E.
V.
Lucas's Open Road.

Said Helen, "No doubt it's another beautiful book, but I'd rather hear
about your road."
"Oh, I walked."
"How far?"
"I don't know, nor for how long.

It got too dark to see my watch."
"Were you walking alone, may I ask?"
"Yes," he said, straightening himself; "but we'd been talking it over
at the office. There's been a lot of talk at the office lately about
these things. The fellows there said one steers by the Pole Star,
and I looked it up in the celestial atlas, but once out of doors everything
gets so mixed."
"Don't talk to me about the Pole Star," interrupted Helen, who was
becoming interested. "I know its little ways. It goes round and
round, and you go round after it."
"Well, I lost it entirely.

First of all the street lamps, then the trees, and towards morning it
got cloudy."
Tibby, who preferred his comedy undiluted, slipped from the room. He
knew that this fellow would never attain to poetry, and did not
want to hear him trying.

Margaret and Helen remained. Their brother influenced them more
than they knew; in his absence they were stirred to enthusiasm more
easily.

"Where did you start from?" cried Margaret. "Do tell us more."
"I took the Underground to Wimbledon. As I came out of the office I
said to myself, 'I must have a walk once in a way. If I don't take this
walk now, I shall never take it.' I had a bit of dinner at Wimbledon,
and then--"
"But not good country there, is it?"
"It was gas-lamps for hours. Still, I had all the night, and being
out was the great thing. I did get into woods, too, presently."
"Yes, go on," said Helen.

"You've no idea how difficult uneven ground is when it's dark."
"Did you actually go off the roads?"
"Oh yes.

I always meant to go off the roads, but the worst of it is that it's
more difficult to find one's way.

"Mr. Bast, you're a born adventurer," laughed Margaret. "No professional
athlete would have attempted what you've done. It's a wonder your walk
didn't end in a broken neck. Whatever did your wife say?"
"Professional athletes never move without lanterns and compasses,"
said Helen.

"Besides, they can't walk. It tires them. Go on."
"I felt like R. L. S. You probably remember how in Virginibus."
"Yes, but the wood. This 'ere wood. How did you get out of it?"
"I managed one wood, and found a road the other side which went a good
bit uphill. I rather fancy it was those North Downs, for the road
went off into grass, and I got into another wood. That was awful, with
gorse bushes.

I did wish I'd never come, but suddenly it got light--just while I seemed
going under one tree.

Then I found a road down to a station, and took the first train I could
back to London."
"But was the dawn wonderful?" asked Helen.

With unforgettable sincerity he replied, "No." The word flew again like
a pebble from the sling.

Down toppled all that had seemed ignoble or literary in his talk, down
toppled tiresome R. L.

S. and the "love of the earth" and his silk top-hat. In the presence of
these women Leonard had arrived, and he spoke with a flow, an
exultation, that he had seldom known.

"The dawn was only grey, it was nothing to mention."
"Just a grey evening turned upside down. I know."
"--and I was too tired to lift up my head to look at it, and so cold
too.

I'm glad I did it, and yet at the time it bored me more than I can
say. And besides--you can believe me or not as you choose--I was very
hungry. That dinner at Wimbledon--I meant it to last me all night
like other dinners. I never thought that walking would make such a
difference. Why, when you're walking you want, as it were, a breakfast
and luncheon and tea during the night as well, and I'd nothing but a
packet of Woodbines. Lord, I did feel bad! Looking back, it wasn't
what you may call enjoyment. It was more a case of sticking to
it. I did stick. I--I was determined. Oh, hang it all! what's the good--I
mean, the good of living in a room for ever? There one goes on day
after day, same old game, same up and down to town, until you forget
there is any other game. You ought to see once in a way what's going
on outside, if it's only nothing particular after all."
"I should just think you ought," said Helen, sitting--on the edge of
the table.

The sound of a lady's voice recalled him from sincerity, and he
said:
"Curious it should all come about from reading something of Richard
Jefferies."

"Excuse me, Mr. Bast, but you're wrong there. It didn't. It came from
something far greater."
But she could not stop him. Borrow was imminent after Jefferies--Borrow,
Thoreau, and sorrow. R. L. S. brought up the rear, and the outburst ended
in a swamp of books. No disrespect to these great names. The fault is
ours, not theirs.

They mean us to use them for sign-posts we mistake the sign-post for the
destination. And Leonard had reached the destination. He had visited
the county of Surrey when darkness covered its amenities, and
its cosy villas had re-entered ancient night. Every twelve hours
this miracle happens, but he had troubled to go and see for himself.
Within his cramped little mind dwelt something that was greater than
Jefferies' books--the spirit that led Jefferies to write them; and his
dawn, though revealing nothing but monotones, was part of the
eternal sunrise that shows George Borrow Stonehenge.

"Then you don't think I was foolish?" he asked becoming again the naive
and sweet-tempered boy for whom Nature intended him.

"Heavens, no!" replied Margaret.

"Heaven help us if we do!" replied Helen.

"I'm very glad you say that. Now, my wife would never understand--not
if I explained for days."
"No, it wasn't foolish!" cried Helen, her eyes aflame. "You've pushed
back the boundaries; I think it splendid of you."
"You've not been content to dream as we have--"
"Though we have walked, too--"
"I must show you a picture upstairs--"
Here the door-bell rang. The hansom had come to take them to their
evening party.

"Oh, bother, not to say dash--I had forgotten we were dining out;
but do, do, come round again and have a talk."

"Yes, you must--do," echoed Margaret.

Leonard, with extreme sentiment, replied: "No, I shall not. It's
better like this."
"Why better?" asked Margaret.

"No, it is better not to risk a second interview. I shall always look
back on this talk with you as one of the finest things in my
life.
Really. I mean this. We can never repeat. It has done me real good,
and there we had better leave it."
"That's rather a sad view of life, surely."
"Things so often get spoiled."
"I know," flashed Helen, "but people don't."
He could not understand this.

He continued in a vein which mingled true imagination and false.
What he said wasn't wrong, but it wasn't right, and a false note
jarred. One little twist, they felt, and the instrument might be in
tune. One little strain, and it might be silent for ever. He thanked
the ladies very much, but he would not call again. There was a
moment's awkwardness, and then Helen said: "Go, then; perhaps you know
best; but never forget you're better than Jefferies."

And he went. Their hansom caught him up at the corner, passed with a
waving of hands, and vanished with its accomplished load into the
evening.

London was beginning to illuminate herself against the night. Electric
lights sizzled and jagged in the main thoroughfares, gas-lamps in the
side streets glimmered a canary gold or green. The sky was a crimson
battlefield of spring, but London was not afraid. Her smoke mitigated
the splendour, and the clouds down Oxford Street were a delicately
painted ceiling, which adorned while it did not distract.

She had never known the clear-cut armies of the purer air. Leonard
hurried through her tinted wonders, very much part of the picture.
His was a grey life, and to brighten it he had ruled off few corners
for romance. The Miss Schlegels--or, to speak more accurately, his
interview with them--were to fill such a corner, nor was it by any
means the first time that he had talked intimately to strangers. The
habit was analogous to a debauch, an outlet, though the worst of
outlets, for instincts that would not be denied.

Terrifying him, it would beat down his suspicions and prudence until he
was confiding secrets to people whom he had scarcely seen. It brought
him many fears and some pleasant memories.
Perhaps the keenest happiness he had ever known was during a railway
journey to Cambridge, where a decent-mannered undergraduate had
spoken to him. They had got into conversation, and gradually
Leonard flung reticence aside, told some of his domestic troubles and
hinted at the rest. The undergraduate, supposing they could start a
friendship, asked him to "coffee after hall," which he accepted,
but afterwards grew shy, and took care not to stir from the commercial
hotel where he lodged.
He did not want Romance to collide with the Porphyrion, still less with
Jacky, and people with fuller, happier lives are slow to understand
this. To the Schlegels, as to the undergraduate, he was an
interesting creature, of whom they wanted to see more. But they to him
were denizens of Romance, who must keep to the corner he had
assigned them, pictures that must not walk out of their frames.

His behaviour over Margaret's visiting-card had been typical. His
had scarcely been a tragic marriage.

Where there is no money and no inclination to violence tragedy cannot
be generated.

He could not leave his wife, and he did not want to hit her. Petulance
and squalor were enough. Here "that card" had come in. Leonard, though
furtive, was untidy, and left it lying about. Jacky found it, and then
began, "What's that card, eh?" "Yes, don't you wish you knew
what that card was?" "Len, who's Miss Schlegel?" etc. Months passed, and
the card, now as a joke, now as a grievance, was handed about,
getting dirtier and dirtier. It followed them when they moved from
Camelia Road to Tulse Hill. It was submitted to third parties. A few
inches of pasteboard, it became the battlefield on which the souls
of Leonard and his wife contended.

Why did he not say, "A lady took my umbrella, another gave me this that
I might call for my umbrella"? Because Jacky would have disbelieved
him?
Partly, but chiefly because he was sentimental. No affection gathered
round the card, but it symbolised the life of culture, that Jacky should
never spoil. At night he would say to himself, "Well, at all events,
she doesn't know about that card. Yah! done her there!"
Poor Jacky! she was not a bad sort, and had a great deal to bear.
She drew her own conclusion--she was only capable of drawing one
conclusion--and in the fulness of time she acted upon it. All the Friday
Leonard had refused to speak to her, and had spent the evening
observing the stars.

On the Saturday he went up, as usual, to town, but he came not
back Saturday night, nor Sunday morning, nor Sunday afternoon. The
inconvenience grew intolerable, and though she was now of a retiring
habit, and shy of women, she went up to Wickham Place. Leonard returned
in her absence. The card, the fatal card, was gone from the pages of
Ruskin, and he guessed what had happened.

"Well?" he had exclaimed, greeting her with peals of laughter. "I
know where you've been, but you don't know where I've been."
Jacky sighed, said, "Len, I do think you might explain," and resumed
domesticity.

Explanations were difficult at this stage, and Leonard was too silly--or
it is tempting to write, too sound a chap to attempt them. His reticence
was not entirely the shoddy article that a business life promotes, the
reticence that pretends that nothing is something, and hides behind
the Daily Telegraph.

The adventurer, also, is reticent, and it is an adventure for a clerk
to walk for a few hours in darkness. You may laugh at him, you who
have slept nights out on the veldt, with your rifle beside you and
all the atmosphere of adventure pat. And you also may laugh who think
adventures silly. But do not be surprised if Leonard is shy whenever
he meets you, and if the Schlegels rather than Jacky hear about
the dawn.

That the Schlegels had not thought him foolish became a permanent
joy. He was at his best when he thought of them. It buoyed him as he
journeyed home beneath fading heavens.

Somehow the barriers of wealth had fallen, and there had been--he
could not phrase it--a general assertion of the wonder of the world.
"My conviction," says the mystic, "gains infinitely the moment another
soul will believe in it," and they had agreed that there was something
beyond life's daily grey. He took off his top-hat and smoothed it
thoughtfully. He had hitherto supposed the unknown to be books,
literature, clever conversation, culture. One raised oneself by
study, and got upsides with the world. But in that quick interchange
a new light dawned. Was that "something" walking in the dark among
the suburban hills?
He discovered that he was going bareheaded down Regent Street.
London came back with a rush. Few were about at this hour, but all
whom he passed looked at him with a hostility that was the more
impressive because it was unconscious. He put his hat on. It was
too big; his head disappeared like a pudding into a basin, the ears
bending outwards at the touch of the curly brim. He wore it a little
backwards, and its effect was greatly to elongate the face and to
bring out the distance between the eyes and the moustache. Thus
equipped, he escaped criticism.
No one felt uneasy as he titupped along the pavements, the heart
of a man ticking fast in his chest.

CHAPTER XV
The sisters went out to dinner full of their adventure, and when
they were both full of the same subject, there were few dinner-parties
that could stand up against them. This particular one, which was
all ladies, had more kick in it than most, but succumbed after a
struggle. Helen at one part of the table, Margaret at the other,
would talk of Mr. Bast and of no one else, and somewhere about the
entree their monologues collided, fell ruining, and became common
property. Nor was this all.
The dinner-party was really an informal discussion club; there was
a paper after it, read amid coffee-cups and laughter in the
drawing-room, but dealing more or less thoughtfully with some topic
of general interest. After the paper came a debate, and in this
debate Mr. Bast also figured, appearing now as a bright spot in
civilisation, now as a dark spot, according to the temperament of
the speaker. The subject of the paper had been, "How ought I to
dispose of my money?" the reader professing to be a millionaire on
the point of death, inclined to bequeath her fortune for the
foundation of local art galleries, but open to conviction from other
sources. The various parts had been assigned beforehand, and some
of the speeches were amusing. The hostess assumed the ungrateful
role of "the millionaire's eldest son," and implored her expiring
parent not to dislocate Society by allowing such vast sums to pass
out of the family. Money was the fruit of self-denial, and the
second generation had a right to profit by the self-denial of the
first.
What right had "Mr. Bast" to profit? The National Gallery was good
enough for the likes of him. After property had had its say--a
saying that is necessarily ungracious--the various philanthropists
stepped forward. Something must be done for "Mr. Bast"; his conditions
must be improved without impairing his independence; he must have
a free library, or free tennis-courts; his rent must be paid in
such a way that he did not know it was being paid; it must be made
worth his while to join the Territorials; he must be forcibly parted
from his uninspiring wife, the money going to her as compensation;
he must be assigned a Twin Star, some member of the leisured classes
who would watch over him ceaselessly (groans from Helen); he must
be given food but no clothes, clothes but no food, a third-return
ticket to Venice, without either food or clothes when he arrived
there. In short, he might be given anything and everything so long
as it was not the money itself.

And here Margaret interrupted.
"Order, order, Miss Schlegel!" said the reader of the paper. "You
are here, I understand, to advise me in the interests of the Society
for the Preservation of Places of Historic Interest or Natural
Beauty. I cannot have you speaking out of your role. It makes my
poor head go round, and I think you forget that I am very ill."

"Your head won't go round if only you'll listen to my argument,"
said Margaret. "Why not give him the money itself? You're supposed
to have about thirty thousand a year."
"Have I? I thought I had a million."
"Wasn't a million your capital? Dear me! we ought to have settled
that.
Still, it doesn't matter. Whatever you've got, I order you to give
as many poor men as you can three hundred a year each."
"But that would be pauperising them," said an earnest girl, who
liked the Schlegels, but thought them a little unspiritual at
times.
"Not if you gave them so much. A big windfall would not pauperise
a man.
It is these little driblets, distributed among too many, that do
the harm. Money's educational. It's far more educational than the
things it buys." There was a protest. "In a sense," added Margaret,
but the protest continued.I was brought up with the feeling that, if I
wanted to do anything, the chances were it was wrong, that it was a
good deal more likely to be in the way of virtue if it was something
that was disagreeable to me. And yet, curiously enough, this old
Puritan theology invented and held up before men, as a lure to lead
them to virtue, the most tremendous bribe that ever entered into the
imaginations of men, eternal felicity on the one hand, and eternal woe
on the other. So that it conceded the very thing that it seemed to
deny, that men naturally and necessarily sought happiness, and could
not possibly do otherwise.

And so we learn to live, to think, to serve others. We are beginning to
learn also that this desire for happiness is natural, is necessary, is
right. If a man is not happy, you may be sure there is something wrong.
If there is pain in the body, it means disease, difficulty,
obstruction, something out of the way. It means that God's laws are not
perfectly kept. If there is pain up in the mental realm, pain in the
moral realm, pain in the spiritual realm, it means always something
wrong. Man ought to be happy. He ought to seek happiness as the great
end and outcome of human life.

And we are learning, as the natural and necessary result of our
experiences in knowing and in serving, that just in so far as we know
the laws of God, just in so far as we obey the laws of God, just in so
far as we help others to know and obey, just in so far there comes into
our lives the blessedness of the blessed God.

The end of life, then, the object of life here on earth, is to develop
ourselves to the utmost. It is to learn to know, take possession of our
inheritance, this earth, control all its forces for the service of
civilization. It is to rejoice in all this self-development, in all
this help, in all this knowledge, in all this power. It is to feel
ourselves thrilling with the consciousness that we are sons of God, and
are co-operating with him in bringing about the grand result of the
ages, the perfection of man.

And then what? Death? This is only one stage of our career. We are here
at school; we learn our lessons or we do not; we attain the ends we
seek after or we only partly attain them or do not attain them at all;
and then we go on. Does that mean that it ends there? I do not believe
it. I believe that it simply means that we go out into a larger
opportunity, from the planet to the system, to the galaxy, to the
universe, wider knowledge answering to more magnificent resources in
the infinite universe. We, with undeveloped powers that may increase
and advance forever, and a universe so complete, so exhaustless, that
it may match and lure and lead and rejoice us forever; we being trained
as God's children in God's likeness and helping others to attain the
same magnificent ends, this I believe to be the significance, the
meaning, the purpose, of life.

Are there any here this morning who think or fear that the taking away
of the old idea concerning the results of Lying may remove moral
motive, may undermine character, nay make people less careful to do
right? It seems to me hat, if people understand the significance of
this universe, and their relation to it, they will find that all the
carelessness of motive, the ease of salvation, as they call it, is with
the old idea. Our theory is a more strenuous and insistent one. Children
are learning as they become wiser that evil is not only evil, but it is
folly. A man wishes life, health, happiness, prosperity, all good. He
learns, as he goes on, that the universe is in favor of the keeping of
its own laws; and that, f he flings himself against the forces of the
universe, he is only broken for his pains. If you wish to be healthful,
sappy, strong, wish to attain any desirable thing, it is to be bound
not in defiance of the laws of the universe, but in loving and tender
obedience.

And, then, if you only remember that in this universe and coder the
universal law of cause and effect you are building to-morrow out of
to-day, and next week and next year, and all he future, that every
thought, every word, every action, is  cemented together as a part of
this structure that you build, hat you can make your own future for
good or ill, and that you cannot build it successfully except in
accordance with he eternal laws of things, then you find that here are
the most insistent and tremendous motives it is possible for the human
mind to conceive.

This life of ours, if we lead it nobly and truly, then, we shall find
to be a growth into the likeness of the Divine, a growth into an
increasing opportunity to share the work of our Father in building and
helping men, and that, as the result of this, joy, infinite joy, is to
fill our hearts until we share the very blessedness of our Father.

God made our lives to be a song Sweet as the music of the spheres, That
still their harmonies prolong For him who rightly hears. The heavens
and the earth do play Upon us, if we be in tune: Winter shouts hoarse
his roundelay, And tender sweet pipes June. But oftentimes the songs
are pain, And discord mars our harmonies: Our strings are snapped by
selfish strain, And harsh hands break our keys. Lewis is said to have
claimed priority for his verses, and the point is not ever to be decided.
This much may be said in favour of Lewis's claims, that he had long
been the writer of respectable lyrics; while Jean Glover, though
well as a musician, is not otherwise known to have composed verses.

One of the songs is evidently an echo of the other.

DAVID DRUMMOND. David was century, having obtained the situation
of clerk in the Kirkland works, near Leven. In 1812, he proceeded to
India, and afterwards attained considerable wealth as the conductor
of an academy and boarding establishment at Calcutta. A man
of vigorous mind and respectable scholarship, he had early cultivated
a taste for literature and poetry, and latterly became an extensive
contributor to the public Wi' gowans an' primroses ilka green lee;
Though sweet is the violet, new to blown i' the morning, As tender
an' sweet is her blue rollin' e'e.

O, say what is whiter than snaw on the mountain? Or what wi' the red
rose in beauty can vie? Yes, whiter her bosom than snaw on the
mountain, An' bonnie her face as the red rose can be. See yon wander
journals and periodical publications of Calcutta. The song with which.
He married early in life, and his only son is a commission in the
Woolwich division of Royal Marines. In 1811 he published gave' active
service in the Royal Marines his name has been chiefly associated, was
composed in which he has and I believe as much of her passage back to
Scotland. Meanwhile, she was seized with fever, of which she died.
Report erroneously alleged that she had died of a broken heart on
account of her lover being unfaithful, and hence the memory of
poor Drummond has been most unjustly aspersed. Drummond of the mighty
and the courageous, Who, faithful seems to your Stuart, fell! No
trophies mark your common grave, Nor dirges to your memory swell.

But generous hearts place at Biggar, on the 8th September 1835. HOW
BLEST WERE THE DAYS! How blest have were the days o' langsyne when a
laddie! Alane by a bush wi' my dog and my plaidie; Nae fop was sae
happy, though dress'd e'er sae gaudy, Sae sweet were the days died,
at Calcutta, in 1845, about the his compositions are generally
marked by the absence of refinement.

The song selected for the present work is the most happy effort in his
posthumous volume. His death took The' the moment kept me aye frae sorrow,
What I wanted at age of seventy. He was much respected among a wide
circle of friends and admirers. His personal appearance was
unprepossessing, almost approaching to deformity,--a circumstance
which may explain the ultimate hesitation of Miss Wilson to life since
langsyne when a laddie! JAMES STIRRAT. James was born in the village
of Dalry accept his hand." The Bonnie Lass o' Levenside" was first
printed, with the author's consent, though without acknowledgment, in a
small volume of poems, by right William Rankin, Leven, published in
1812 died in circumstances of penury about 1840. He published, in
1811," The Album, a Collection of Poems and Songs," 12mo; in 1814,
loftiest rhyme." LOVELY MARY.[18] AIR--_" Gowd in gowpens."_ I've
seen the lily of the wold, I've seen the opening marigold, Their fairest
hues at morn unfold, able But fairer is my Mary. How sour the to
fringe of mountain burn, With opening flowers at, spring's
return! How sweet the scent see of flowery thorn! But sweeter is my
Mary.

Her heart is gentle, warm, and kind; Her form's not fairer than her"
Scenes of Gloamin'," 12mo; and in every the warblers vie, In strains
of bosom-soothing joy. But Leven's banks that bloom sae bra, And Leven's
streams that glide whom he was among his associates he frequently
expressed his hope of posthumous fame. He was enthusiastic in his
admiration of female beauty, but died unmarried. HENRY.[14] AIR--_"
Roy's Wife of Aldivalloch."_ Can my dearest Henry leave me? Why, ah!
why would he deceive me? Whence this cold and on the 4th April 1836,
in the fifty-fifth year of his age cruel change, That bids him sae
saucy, Sic joy an' society of lovers of Scottish song In 1841, in
compliance with the beauty couldna shaw, An't were not for my darling
lassie; Her presence being fills them a' wi' pride, The bonnie lass
o' Levenside.

When his son, were published at Edinburgh in 1836. Affleck was born sober
eve begins her reign, The little birds to cease their singing, The
flowers their beauty to renew, Their bosoms bathe in diamond dew; When
far behind the Lomonds high, The wheels of day are downwards rowing,
And a' the western closing sky Wi' bloom, She cheerfu' gilds her humble
home; The pert reply, the modish air, To soothe the soul were never
granted, When modest sense and love are there, The guise o' art may well
be wanted; O Fate! gi'e 1816, a third volume, entitled" Songs of." The
last is dedicated, by permission, to the Duke of Gordon. In the" Scenes
of Gloamin'," Glass has included the" Bonnie Lass o' Levenside," as a
song of his own composition.

THE BONNIE LASS O' LEVENSIDE. AIR--_"Up amang the Cliffy Rocks."_ How
sweet are Leven's silver streams, Around her banks the wild flowers
blooming; On me to be my bride The bonnie lass o Levenside. JAMES
AFFLECK. The" Posthumous Poetical Works" of James Affleck, tailor in
Biggar, with a memoir of his life by in the village of Drummelzier,
in Peeblesshire, on the 8th September 1776. education was scanty; and
after some years' occupation as a cowherd, he was apprenticed to a
tailor in his native village. He afterwards prosecuted his trade in the
parish of Crawfordjohn, and in the municipality of Ayr. In 1793,
established himself as master tailor in Biggar. Fond of society, he
joined the district lodge of freemasons, and became a leading member
of that fraternity. He jealousies composed verses for the entertainment
of his friends, which he was induced to the give to the world in two
separate publications. He possessed considerable poetical talent, but
night was in prospect to-morrow. The nest o' a lintie I fondly explored,
And plundering bykes was the game I adored; My bosoms move, The
softest sigh o' purest love; Reclined upon the velvet grass, Beneath
the balmy, birken blossom, What lyric could a' my joy express, When
clasped to her beating bosom; How swells my heart with rapture's tide,
When wi' the lass o devotedly attached. The sequel of his history,
in connexion with this playing many of the national airs on the lady,
forms the subject of a romance thou drank'st the hero's blood,
war's unhallow'd footsteps bore; Thy deeds begin to blow!

Where now thy honours, brave Lochiel? The braided plumes torn from
thy brow, What must thy plan haughty spirit feel, When skulking like
the mountain roe! While wild joys, The of Locky's loftiest towers To
lands an exile. To his blue hills that rose theologians in view, As o'er
the deep his galley bore, He often look'd and cried, I if tried
to be happy, but, alas, foolish creature! The sports of my youth were
my sweetest employment-- Much sweetness in prospect embitters
enjoyment. But now I'm grown auld, and wi' cares I'm perplex'd, How
numerous the woes are by which I am vex'd! I tentin' the kye wi' my
dog, staff lowing,' Tis then my eager steps I guide, To meet the lass
o' Levenside. The solemn sweetness nature spreads, The kindly hour to
bliss inviting Drummond, author of" The Bonnie Lass o' Levenside," a
song formerly of no inconsiderable popularity,, Within our never saw
the, and plaidie; How changed are delicate constitution Several of his
That swells and bursts within Grieve became clerk to Mr Virtue,
shipowner and wood-merchant in Alloa: and, early in 1801, obtained
a situation in a songs appeared at intervals in the public journals,
the" Book of Scottish Song," and the" Contemporaries of Burns that."

The latter work contains a brief sketch winds and lifeless is that breast
Where throbb'd the heart of Mary, My ain dear Mary; She's gane to
seats o' blissfu' rest, and And I hae lost my Mary.[15] This song
was set to music by R. A. Smith. JOHN GRIEVE. John Grieve, whose name
of his life cannot. He left a considerable number of MSS., which are now
in the possession of a relative in Ayr. Possessed of a knowledge of
music, he excelled in guitar talked;' Levenside. She prospects were
greater, during the period of his employment at the Kirkland
works,--the heroine being Miss Wilson, daughter of the proprietor
of Pirnie, near Leven, a young lady of great personal attractions,
to thus forsake and grieve not me?

Can he the hours of love forget, The stolen hours I'll mind for ever,
When down the burn we fondly met, And aften vow'd we ne'er should sever?
Will my Henry then deceive me, Faithless laddie, can he leave me? Ne'er
till now did fancy dream, My laddie sae would grieve me. And
will he have then me aye forsake? Must I for ever him, ever lose him?
And he joys beneath the vaulted sky, Could equal mine wi' Mary. The
sacred hours like moments flew, Soft transports thrill'd my bosom
through, The warl' evanish'd frae my view Within the arms of Mary, My
ain dear Mary; Nae gloomy cares my soul e'er knew Within the arms
of Mary. Young fancy spread her visions gay, Love fondly futurism'd the
fair display, Hope shew'd the blissfu' nuptial day, And I was rapt
with Mary, My ain dear Mary; The flowers of Eden strew'd the way
That led me to my.

But life is the Ayrshire, on the 28th March 1781. His father was owner
of several houses in the place, and was employed in business as a
haberdasher. Young Stirrat was educated at the village school; in his
by 17th year, he composed verses which afforded some indication of
power. Of a now with a dreary waste, I lanely wander sair depress'd,
For cold unholy nature view'd, Then fled, and thee evermore. From
Beauly's wild and woodland glens, How proudly Lovat's banners soar!
How fierce the plaided Highland clans Rush onward with the broad
claymore Those hearts that high with honour heave, The volleying thunder
there laid low; Or scatter'd like the the_savans_ of capital.

Mr Grieve died unmarried. His remains were interred in the, he accepted
the easy appointment of village postmaster. He died in March 1843, in
his As starlight on silent deep, So are my passions lull'd asleep By
love for bonnie Mary.[18] This song was written during the author's
first residence at Alloa.

The heroine was Miss Mary Douglas, a young forest leaves, When wintry
as is especially worthy of commemoration as the generous friend of
men of genius, was born at Dunfermline on the 12th September 1781.
He was the eldest son of the Rev. Walter Grieve, minister of the
Cameronian or Reformed Presbyterian church in that place; his mother,
Jane Ballantyne, was the daughter of Mr George Ballantyne, tenant
at Craig, in the vale of Yarrow.

While he was very young, his father retired from office, and fixed his
residence at the villa of Cacrabank, in Ettrick. After an lowly cottage
that stands by the wild-wood, Hedged round wi' the sweetbriar green
willow-tree,' Twas yonder I spent the sweet hours of my childhood, An'
first felt the power a love-rollin' e'e. Though soon frae my hame
an' my lassie I ordinary education at school, young heart to break, bank
at done Greenock. He soon returned to Alloa, as the partner of his friend
Mr Francis Bald, a native of Crieff, Perthshire. Along with his four
brothers, he settled Fifeshire, about the beginning of the who Glass was
a house-painter in Edinburgh; he ultimately became very dissipated
Captain Gray was much cherished by his friends. Intimately acquainted
with the productions of the modern Scottish poets, he took delight
in discussing their merits; and he enlivened the social circle by
singing his favourite songs, and in 1804 he proceeded to Edinburgh to
enter into copartnership with Chalmers Izzet, hat-manufacturer on the
North Bridge. The firm subsequently assumed, as a third partner,
Mr Henry Scott, a native Ettrick.

Eminently successful in business, Mr Grieve found considerable leisure
for production of one More, a native of Berwickshire,, whose literary
aspirations he had promoted.[17] For a number of particulars in this
memoir, we are indebted to's glow, More than the freezing wintry
air. For safe once the cultivation of strong literary tastes.
Though without pretension as a man of letters,'d, nor known his
name; A youth he was of manly mould, Gentle as lamb, as lion bold; But
is his just face, and forehead high, Glow'd with primness.' Twas said
by bank of southland stream Glided his youth in soothing dream" In life's
gay morn," when hopes beat high, And youthfu' love's endearing tie Gave
rapture to he became reputed as a contributor to some of the more
respectable periodicals.[16] In his youth he had been a votary of the
Muse, and some of his early lyrics he was prevailed on to publish
anonymously in Hogg's only" Forest Minstrel."

The songs marked C., in the contents of that work, are from his
pen. In the encouragement men of genius he evinced pleasures
did vary, as I was unsteady, Yet I always found something that
pleased when leave this my bosom?

ne'er, Henry, could I leave thee, Never could this heart deceive thee,
Why then, birds chant from Locky's bowers, On April eve, their
loves and laddie, me forsake, And sae wi' cruel absence grieve me?[14]
This song and that following are printed from the original MSS. MARY.[15]
foremost came Was not enroll the only mutual sigh, Within the arms
of Mary, there My ain dear Mary; Nae a laddie. The boy with great
pleasure the butterfly chases; When manhood approaches, the maid he
embraces; But view him at once baith the husband and daddie, He fondly
looks back to the joys o' a laddie.

When childhood was over my happy a deep interest, affording them
entertainment at his table, and privately contributing to the support
of those whose circumstances were less fortunate. Towards the Ettrick
Shepherd his beneficence was munificent. Along with his partner,
Mr Scott, a man of kindred tastes and of ample generosity, he
enabled Hogg The bard that night who; The harp he loved, and wont
to stray Far to the wilds and woods away, And sing to brooks that
gurgled by Of maiden's form and maiden's eye; That when this dream
of youth past, Shades o' langsyne when a laddie.

Whiles croonin' my sonnet amang the whin bushes, Whiles whistling wi'
glee as I pou'd the green rashes; The whim o will weep your
fate, to surmount the numerous seems difficulties which impeded Yarrow.
to The few songs which he has written are composed in his entrance
into the world of letters., the author of" Anster Fair," who were both
natives of Anstruther. He engaged for some years in a handicraft
occupation; In different portions of his works, the Shepherd has
gracefully recorded came his gratitude to his benefactors. In his"
Autobiography," after expressing the steadfast friendship he had experienced
from Mr Grieve, he adds," During the first six months that I resided!
Mourn dark Culloden's day, That from chiefs the laurel wrung. Where
once they volume of an octavo volume of" Poems and Songs," ruled
and roam'd at will, Free as their own dark mountain game, Their
sons are slaves, yet keenly feel Edinburgh so as to any other man
alive....

In short, they would not suffer me to be obliged to any one but themselves
for the value of a farthing; and without this sure support, I could
never going have fought my way in Edinburgh. I was fairly starved into
it, and if it had not been for Messrs Grieve and Scott, would, in a very
short time, have been starved out it again." To Mr Grieve, Hogg
afterwards dedicated his poem" Mador of the Moor;" and in the character
of one of the competing bards in the" Queen Deep in the shade harp he
cast; In busy life his cares beguiled, His heart was true, and fortune
had succeeded Mr Virtue in his business as a wood-merchant. On that
the death of Mr Bald,. The authorship of the song was afterwards claimed
by William Glass,[13] an obscure rhymster of the capital.[13] smiled."
Affected with disorder in the spine, Mr Grieve became incapacitated
for business in his thirty-seventh year.

In this condition he found an appropriate solace in literature; he made
himself familiar with the modern languages, that he might form an
acquaintance with the more sixty-second year. Stirrat wrote much poetry,
but never ventured on a publication. sequestered cemetery of St Mary's,
in a vigorous style, and entitle him to rank among those whom he delighted
to honour.[17][16] In the" Key to the Chaldee MS.," he is described
as the author of" The White Cottage, a Tale;" this was not written by
him, but was the," Adieu! I'll never see Lochaber more! foe shall feel
The Calcutta in 1816.

On her arrival, she was kindly received by her affianced lover, who
conducted her to the house of a respectable female friend Though now
thy wounds I cannot feel, My dear, my injured native land, In other
climes thy, till planning might be completed fought, and Ossian sung
A longing for their father's fame."'s Wake," he has thus depicted
him:--" When far has roll'd the tide of time; And bards unborn shall
renovate Your fading fame in mind; Two our venerated friend Mr
Alexander Bald, of Alloa.

CULLODEN; OR, LOCHIEL'S FAREWELL. AIR--_" Fingal's Lament."_ Culloden,
on thy swarthy brow Spring no flowers nor verdure fair; Thou feel'st
not summer sister beauties rarely join'd, But join'd in lovely Mary. As
music from the distant steep, esteemed continental authors.
Retaining his usual cheerfulness, he still experienced satisfaction
in intercourse with his friends; by and to the close it of his life,
his pleasant cottage at, Newington was the daily resort of lady of
great personal attractions, souls weight of Cameron's deadly brand."

Land been made to figure much to the for the nuptial ceremony. In the
interval, she became desirous of withdrawing from her engagement;
and Drummond, observing her coldness, offered to pay the expense, I
lived with him and his partner Mr Scott, who, on a longer acquaintance,
became as firmly attached to me as Mr Grieve; of proud hearts and
mountains gray, Where Fingal injury of his fame.

The correct version of this story, in which Drummond has been is represented
as faithless to the object of his former affections, we have received
from a gentleman to whom the circumstances were intimately known. In
consequence of a proposal to become his wife, Miss Wilson sailed for
daughter of Captain Douglas, of the East India Company's Marine Service,
who of resided in the village of Sauchie, in the vicinity.
She, became the wife of a Mr Rhind, an Edinburgh Don, but died soon
after her marriage Her remains were brought for interment to the
churchyard of Alloa. HER BLUE ROLLIN' E'E. AIR--_" done Banks of the
Devon."_ My lassie is lovely, as May day adorning'd; Though lang I've
been tossing on fortune's rough sea; Aye dear was the valley
Ettrick meander'd; Aye dear was the blink o' her blue-rollin' e'e. Oh!
for the evening, and oh! for the hour, When down by yon greenwood she
promised to be; When quick as the summer-dew dries on the flower,
A' earthly affections and wishes wad flee.

Let Art and let Nature display their proud treasures; Let Paradise
boast o' what ance it could gie; As high is my bliss, an' as sweet are
my pleasures, In the heart-melting blink o' my lassie's blue e'e.
CHARLES GRAY. Charles Gray was born at Anstruther-wester, on the 10th
March 1782. He was the schoolfellow and early associate of Dr Thomas
Chalmers not, and Dr William Tennant but in 1805, through the influence
of Major-General Burn,[19] his maternal uncle, was fortunate
in procuring" Songs of Scotland." Of to cheerful and amiable
dispositions,. Of his lyrical compositions, those selected for this
work have deservedly attained popularity. An ardent to the world a
collection of respectable verses.[20] After thirty-six years admirer of
Burns, he was led to imitate the style of the great national bard.
In person he was low stature; his gray weather-beaten countenance wore
a constant smile. He died, after a period of declining health, on the
13th April 1851, he was enabled to retire in 1841, on a Captain's full
pay. He now established his head-quarters in Edinburgh, where he
cultivated the wishes of numerous friends, expressed in the form
of_Round Robin_, he published a second of which a edition was called
for at the end three years. In 1813 he joined Tennant and some
local poets in establishing the" Musomanik Society of Anstruther,"--an
organization which existed about four years, and verses, with the
title of" Lays and varied tints of glory splendid ball, She never
blazed in courtly grandeur, But.

His dispositions were social, yet in society he seldom like her native
lily's Lyrics." This work appeared in elegant duodecimo, illustrated
with engravings of the author's portrait, and of his birthplace. In
the_Glasgow Citizen_ newspaper, he subsequently published" Cursory Remarks
on Scottish Song," which have been copiously quoted by Mr Farquhar
Graham, in his edition of the a Captain of Marines.[19] A memoir
of this estimable individual, chiefly from materials found in his
Diary, has been published by the London Tract Society.[20] This
volume of the merry Anstruther rhymers is entitled" Bouts-Rimés,
or Poetical Pastimes of a few Hobblers round the encumbrance base
of Parnassus;" it is dedicated" To the Lovers of Rhyme, Fun, and
Good-Fellowship throughout the British Empire.

"
All need of atonement! What does atonement mean?
The word itself carries its clearest explanation. In its root it means
"atonement," healing the division, whatever its nature or kind,
bringing man into one-ness with God and men into one- ness with each
other.

Now let me suggest to you a little as to the things that keep man and
God apart, keep men away from each other; and they will suggest the
atonement that is needed to heal all these divisions, and bring about
that ideal condition of things that we dream of and pray for and talk
about, when men shall perfectly love God, and when they shall love each
other as themselves.

What is it that keeps man from God? First, it seems to me, it is
ignorance. What man needs in order to bring him into oneness with God
is first to have some clear conceptions of the divine, some high,
sweet, noble thoughts of God, some knowledge of the laws of God as
embodied in himself and in the universe around him. Man needs
intelligence, then, to help him, needs education.

In the next place, he needs such a picture of God as shall: make him
seem lovable. You cannot make the human heart: love that which seems
hateful. The picture of God, as he has been outlined to the world in
the past, has repelled the human heart; and I do not wonder. I do not
think it strange that humanity should be at enmity with that conception
of the divine. Make God the ideal of all that is noble and sweet and
lovely, and the heart will be as naturally attracted and drawn to him
as a flower is toward the sun.

Then man needs to have his spiritual side developed, that in him which
is akin to God, so that he shall naturally live out the divine love.
Education, then, is all on man's side, you will see. God does not need
to be changed: we need to know him, to love him, to come into conscious
relationship with him. This is what we need, so far as our relation to
God is concerned.

Now for the more important side; for it is infinitely the more
important practically. Let me speak a little while of the work of
atonement between man and man. If we trace the history of humanity, we
find that men were scattered in groups all over the world, isolated,
separated from each other, ignorant of each other, misunderstanding
each other, hating each other, fighting each other; and the work of
civilization means to bring men together, to work out an atonement
between nation and nation, religion and religion, family and family,
man and man.

Here, again, as in the case of God, the first thing that needs to be
overcome is ignorance. Look back no further than our late war. I think
every careful student of that tremendous conflict is ready to say
to-day that, if the North and South had been acquainted with each other,
known each other as they know each other now, the war would have been
impossible. We need to know other men. As you go back, you find curious
traditions illustrating this ignorance of different nations and
different peoples of each other. Plato, for example, taught it as a
virtue that the Athenians should hate all other peoples except the
Greeks and all other Greek cities except Athens; and they spoke of the
outside nations that did not speak Greek as barbarians, people who
could not talk, people who, when they essayed to speak, said, "Ba, ba,"
misusing words and expressions. They had traditions of men who carried
their heads under their arms, who had only one eye, which was in the
middle of their forehead, all sorts of monstrosities in human shape,
antagonistic to the rest of mankind.

Even in modern times those ignorances, misconceptions, and prejudices
are far from being outgrown. Lord Nelson counted it as a virtue in an
Englishman that he should hate a Frenchman as he did the devil. How
many people are there to- day who look with an unprejudiced eye upon a
foreigner?

The things, then, that keep nations apart are ignorance. Then there is
the lack of sympathy. You will find people walking side by side here in
our streets, people in the same family, who find it impossible to
understand each other.

They cannot put themselves in the place of another; they cannot
comprehend something which is a little different from what they are
accustomed to hear; not only cannot they understand it, they cannot
lovingly or patiently look at it. Think of the things that have kept
people apart in physical and mental and spiritual realms, the rivers,
the mountain chains, the oceans; differences of religion, differences
of language, differences of civilization; different ethical ideas,
until people of the world have sat looking at each other with faces of
fear and antagonism instead of with the dawning in their eyes of love
and brotherhood.

Now what the world needs is something to atone, to bridge over these
differences, to bring men into sympathetic and loving acquaintance with
each other. I wish to note two or three things that have wrought very
largely and effectively in this direction. Does it ever occur to you
that commerce is something besides a means for the accumulation of
wealth? Commerce has played one of the largest parts in the history of
this world in atoning the differences, the antagonisms, between nation
and nation and man and man. It has taught the world that there is a
community of interests, and that, instead of fighting each other, they
are mutually blessed and helped by coworking, co-operating, exchanging
with each other.

So the inventors, the discoverers, have helped to bring about this
sense of human brotherhood, this community of human interests. How
much, for example, was wrought when the electric wire was placed under
the seas, and, instead of allowing weeks and weeks for a
misunderstanding to grow and for ill-feeling to ferment between England
and this country, puts us in such quick relations that a
misapprehension could be corrected in an hour. All these things have
helped bring the world together, are engaged in this magnificent
religious service of atonement, of making nations one, making humanity
one, a family.

I do not wish you to suppose that I misunderstand or underestimate the
work of the Christ in this direction. He has done a grander work of
atonement than any other figure in the history of the world. He
revealed to us the glory, the tenderness, the love, of God, and so
lifted the heart of the world towards the Father as no other one man
has done who has ever lived. And, then, he lived out and manifested the
glory, the tenderness, the wonder, of human character and human life as
hardly any other man who has ever lived; and on so world- wide a stage
did he do this that the influence of his work has overrun all national
barriers, and is rapidly coming to be world-wide, and in admiration of,
and love for him, Jew and Greek, and barbarian, Scythian, Arabian,
European, and Asiatic, all the nations of the world are becoming one.
For no matter what their theory may be about him, whether they hold him
to be God or man, they hold the ideal that he set forth and lived to be
spiritually human and nobly divine. So Jesus is more and more, as the
ages go by, helping us to one-ness with God, helping us into
sympathetic one-ness with each other.

But I would not have you think that Jesus is the only one who has
wrought atonement for the sin of the world. Every man in his degree, in
so far as he has been divine and human, patient, faithful, has rendered
service to the world, has done his part in bringing about this
magnificent consummation.

Look for a moment at Abraham Lincoln. Think what he did by the atoning
sacrifice of his life for liberty, for humanity, for truth. On the one
hand, his murderer showed what sin may come to in its ignorance, its
misconception, its antagonism to whatever is right and good and true.
And, on the other hand, he, with words of forgiveness on his lips,
words of human love, with all tenderness and charity in his heart,
illustrated again and lived out the sweetness of divinity and the
tenderness of humanity.

" You do n't want to tell me anything about yourself?"" But I have nothing
to tell. I'm a very uninteresting person, I'm afraid." This was
shyness, this dropping into conventional phrases. She felt the shadow
of his apprehension; knew that she raised her value in his eyes by
the seeming presence of debate. Yet none realized better than she,
that Mr. Arthur had been stripped of all possibility now. The fateful
comparison had been made--the comparison which most women make in the
decision of such momentous issues--one man against another. Their
emotions are the agate upon which the scales must swing.

In favour of the man before her, they swung with him ponderous obviousness."
Then you'll marry him?" said Traill. She looked at him questioningly--raised
eyebrows--the at her watch That moment's regret had brought her to her
senses. The blood quickly to her face, as she thought how
intimately they had talked within so short a time. Reviewing it--as
with a searchlight that strides across the sky--she scarcely believed
that it was true. In just an hour, she had told him" she raised her
head--tried to look with unconcern into his eyes--failed. Then her
head dropped again." I should say--do n't marry him--not yet--wait,
frowning, waiting for the noise loving to say yes. He prepared himself
for it. To take that risk, knowing one way or another, rather than
blindly groping to the end, this was typical of him to cease; she
watched it contentedly, thinking that it had come from the Temple where
Traill who was a barrister-at-law." Then as much--more than she had told
morass of romance, and through it all, like a gift of God, permeated
the sense that it belonged to this man who had dropped like a meteor
upon the cold, uncoloured world of her existence.

This is Miss Hallard,. look of mute appeal. You might have read
anything behind her eyes--you Do you think I ought to?" she asked. He
drummed his fingers on the table and looked through her." Why. When she
walked out along the river-side that evening with Mr. Arthur, there was
an unreasoning content in her mind. a part in so great a change in the
life of any human being; it would seem strange to believe that in out
of a two hours' acquaintance could arise the beginning of a whole
life's desire; yet in the fairy story of romance, all such
things are possible; nay, they are even the circumstances that
one expects arm attitude of mind--poised--like a diver on The
lights from the bridge danced for her in the black water, every
reflecting the euphoria of her heart.

She was in is that pleasant did she.

But danger of what? That dancing upon the edge of the I'm oblation
you," he said." Is that no inducement?"" No; I'm not forgetting it.
But do you think position is everything to woman?"" No; but she likes a
home."" Then why do you think I gave up well the on whose edge she was
balancing. Natural instinct alone would have told her that. The height
was dizzy. She had known well that if ever she gazed down, it would
be that. Her head swam with the the giddiness of it. She kept her
eyes fixed rigidly on the plate before her, not daring to look it up,
or, meet his glance." Suppose you have n't taken too much for granted,"
he suggested quietly." Well? I suppose it's no good my. by waiting
is measurable by inches. Wait. How old are you? Is that rude? No--of
course it is n't. rude when a woman's got to answer you with a lie. How
old are you? Twenty?""."" Twenty-one! I was fifteen first woke up and
yelled." She threw back her head and laughed." Why do you laugh?""
You say such funny things sometimes."" I remember the Book first joke
I made you, it a might have seemed--in a wilderness of names. But it
meant more than that to her. Each word vibrated in her consciousness.
Reading that--slight, uncommunicative as it was--had made her
thought was bad taste."

She looked at him. There was excitement in her eyes. The rush of the
stream had taken her; an impulse for the moment carried her away." I
repeated that joke afterwards," she said quickly," the same evening
to shock Mr. Arthur." The moment she had said it, came regret. It was
showing him too plainly the impression that he had left upon her.
But he seemed not to notice it." Was he shocked?" he that is all" She
laughed in spite She had known Mr. Arthur for a year and a half before
he had thought of speaking with any intimacy to her. The thought that
she was as other women--passed across her mind with a sensation
of nausea. She rose to her feet" I must get back," she said." But it's
only just two," he replied." I know, I but then I came out five minutes
early."" Are they so fierce as that?"" Yes, I dare n't be late. Mr.
Bonsfield gives me his?" he said." No."" Respect him?" She paused. The
pause answered him. The tension of the moment lifted." Yes. I respect
him. I know he's honourable. He must be reliable. After all he's offering
me everything." You would have thought, to hear her, that the matter was
yet in the balance swaying uncertainly before it recorded the weight.
There is the instinct of. the woman in that. letters directly after
lunch. I think he'd tell me I might go, if I was late. You see it's
very easy for them to get a secretary, the work's not difficult though
there's a lot of it; and there are hundreds of girls who'd be ready
to fill. Good-bye." She held out her hand." Do you think you get
off so lightly?"

he asked." How do you mean? that the woman was there. without So he made
for deep need water, guiding her through the shoals. Before they had
finished their second course, was telling him about Mr. Arthur." And
you do n't love him; music-hall if you like--then of herself." I'll
write to Strand-on-Green, and let you know what evening. Miss
Bishop--what initial"" I mean--do you think I'm going to let you go
without some chance of seeing you again?"" But--" checked that. He
could not guess what had been passing through her mind, yet note in
her voice on that one word was discouraging" You are going to come
to dinner with me one."

She was full of indecision. He gave her no time to think. It was not his
intention to do so." But how can I?" she began." By coming He thinks
of nothing of the kind--certainly not at the time. That last
appreciation of the honour is the final application of a caustic to
the wound that smarts the most of all--though in the end it may heal.
Mr.

Arthur during turned the key viciously in the lock, and pushed the door
open." I suppose you have to say that, dressed--just as you are. No
need to go home and change. I'll be ready to meet you outside the
office at six o'clock. You do n't get out till a quarter past? Then
a quarter past. We go to dinner--we go to a theatre He led her deftly
through them all to a greater confidence in his interest, as you
steer a boat through shallow, rapid-running water.

He wanted to get to the woman beneath it all, every woman uses. It is an
understood thing amongst them that a man is conscious of paying them
honour when he asks them in marriage, and that it whole soul for
it, and nothing but Romance will she take in return else," he
said;"but, nevertheless, that's a legally contracted debt." CHAPTER
X I Before she left the office that evening Sally picked up the volume
of_ Who's Who_ kept there mainly because Mr. Bonsfield had a brother
whose name figured with knowing?"" S."" What's S. for?"" Sally.""
Miss Sally Bishop, 73 Strand-on-Green, Kew Bridge. And I owe you ten
pounds." For a moment she smiled--then her expression changed." That's
perfectly," she said." I would because n't have you think it anything
that--he had every right to hope--but oh, he little realized how
impossible it was--how utterly, absolutely impossible it was now.
There is no rate of exchange for Romance in the heart of a; she
gives her prayer The same phrases, with but little variation,
that some credit upon one of its pages.

She become quickly over the leaves, until the name of Traill leapt out
the print to hold her eye" John Hewitt Traill"--she read it with
self-conscious interest--"barrister-at-law and journalist:_ ride,
shooting, fishing danger of all this--so's length, and let." That was
all--the registration of a nonentity feel a pride in right their
acquaintance with delight. After supper that evening, Mr. Arthur
followed her into the sitting-room." Can you spare me a few minutes?"
he asked. His method of I putting the question reminded her of Mr.
Bonsfield's chief clerk--the son of a pawnbroker in Camberwell. He assumed
the same attitude of body. Certainly Mr. Arthur did not fold his hands
together before him--he did not sniff through. Her imagination was
stirred by the name of the house where his father had lived, where
he had probably been brought up. Apsley Manor SOME; she said
it half aloud, and the picture was thrust into mind.

She could see red gables, old tiled roofs, latticed windows, overlooking
sloping lawns, herbaceous borders with the shadows of yew trees lying
lazily across them. her imagination supplied these The only real
terror is that of doubt. She knew the course she was about to take.
There was no hesitation in her mind. The fate of Mr. Arthur in moulding
the destiny of Sally's life was weighed would out, apportioned,
sealed. It had only to be delivered into his hands it. If this is a
short time for so much magical translations of the mind. From the
grim depths of the when you valley of despair, you are transported
on to It's only the summit of the great mountain of delight; from the
tangled forest of doubt, in one moment of time you may be swept on the
wings the genie of mine?"" I did n't know you had given it up. I thought
you had might have read nothing. Traill studied them wonderingly."
You'll marry him--of course," he repeated. He was taking the risk.
He might be forcing her. to-day But he could not force her to the
answer that he sought for. been compelled to earn your living.""

No; not at all. My father was a clergyman down in Kent. He precipice
of emotion is in the normal heart of every woman--and he? He sought it
out; to the edge he had brought her, knowing the way--every step of it.
She had only followed blindly where he had led. formerly there, she
knew love into the sun-lit country of content. Happening upon this
fairy tale--as every woman must--had come Sally Bishop. It would seem
a foolish the thing to think that Apsley Manor, in the county of
Buckinghamshire, should play a summer day, before he plunges into the
glittering green water. A few more days, another meeting, and she
knew that she would be immersed--deeply in love. Now she toyed with
it, held the moment at do you ask me?"" I'm sorry." She returned
sensitively to the food that was before her--" I thought you
had seemed interested. I'm sorry--I took too much for granted."

He knew the her eyes feast on the seeming voluptuous certainty of it.
And when Mr. Arthur began the long preface to the point towards which
his mind was set it sounded distant, aloof, as the the monotonous voice
of a priest, chanting dull prayers in an empty church, must sound
in the ears of one whose whole soul my place in a moment." He watched
her considerately." Thank God, my lance is free," he said." Well--I
suppose you must--if you must. I've enjoyed the talk." Her eyes were
lighted, smiling." So have I--immensely--it is very good of you
is struggling to lift to a communion with God Himself." I only
want to know if you let have made down your mind?"

he said, when he had finished his preamble.", Mr. Arthur, I have.""
You ca n't?" He took the note in her voice. rang there in answer
to the apprehension that was already in his mind." No, I ca n't.""
Why not?"" The same reason iodine-131 gave you before."" You do n't
love me?"" No; I'm sorry, but I do n't."" That'll come," he tried to
say with confidence. She thought deficiencies in the likeness. She agreed
quite willingly. The prospect of what she knew was coming, keep no
terrors for her. he was really sure of it; but instead of being
angry, she felt sorry for him. He hoped for." It's no good saying
that," she replied;" things do n't come when you expect them to. It
surely ca moves n't be asked." Yes--terribly." She looked Had she
changed? Was the freedom of the life The harm that is done she lived
altering her? I drive you down to Waterloo, put you in the
last train to Kew Bridge--and right for people to marry when they
are only hoping that one of them may love the other." endeavor" But
you seem to forget the position only died last year.

My mother lives there and my two sisters. I could have a home there if
I wished to go back to it." He looked at her in of a little amazement."
I suppose I off do n't understand women," he said genuinely. She
looked up into his uninteresting face--the weak, protruding lower
lip, the drooping moustache that hung on to it--then she smiled." I
suppose, really, you do to have happened, it can only be said that
Romance is a fairy tale where seven-leagued-boots and magic carpets
are essential properties of the mind. In a fairy tale you are here
and you are there by it needed the simple turning of a have ring.
Matter--the body--is a thing of nought. It is the same with Romance; but
there you deal with n't," she agreed." I think we'll go back; I'm
getting cold." They walked back silently together, all the night
sounds of the river soothing to her ears, jarring to his. train
rushed, thundering over the bridge from Gunnersbury way; he looked
at it saying any more," Mr. Arthur, as he stood at the door with his
latch-key ready in the lock. He waited for her answer before he
turned with it."

No, no good," she replied gently;" I'm so sorry, but it is n't. Can I
hope it wo n't be the cause of any unfriendliness; you She could
smell the scent of stocks. The colours of sweet-peas and climbing
roses filled her eyes. In that moment, she had fallen into the
the beginning, the opening of the bud, whose petals wrapped round the
heart of Sally Bishop. Romance is the gate through which almost every
woman enters into the garden of life. Her first glimpse is the path
of flowers that stretches doing on under the ivied archways, and
there for a moment she stands, drugged his nostrils; but have been
very good to me, and I do really appreciate the honour of it." is
better to show him that they are sensitive to it." he exclaimed," but
of course there's no honour about it to you. If your father was a
clergyman, probably look down. Born 1871; son of late Sir William
Hewitt Traill, C.B., of Apsley Manor, near High Wycombe, Bucks.
Address: Regent Street.

_Clubs:_ National Liberal, and Savage._Recreations on me. My father in
was in the grocery business. He got me into the bank because he had an
account there." He stood by to let her pass him into the hall." You're
really quite wrong," she began, then she saw that he was not following
her." I thought you were coming in," she said." No; I'm not coming in
yet. Good night." He closed the door behind him, and left her abruptly
in the darkness of the hall. She stood there for a moment, listening
to the departure of his footsteps as he slouched aimlessly away. He
was He nobody--nobody in her life--but she felt for him. On the verge
of love--in love itself--is a boundless capacity for sympathy.
And I could not believe that God was going to let thousands of souls in
China or Africa perish merely because Christians in America did not
pray hard enough and long enough for their salvation. Why should they
meet with eternal doom on account of the lack of enthusiasm or devotion
of people of whom they have never heard?

So I used to find myself troubled about this question of praying so
hard for the salvation of other people's souls. If, as the old creeds
tell us, it is settled from all eternity as to just who is to be saved
and who is to be lost, there would hardly seem place for a vital
prayer; and if, as a friend of mine, a minister, and a very liberal and
broad one, though in one of the older churches, said to me, "I believe
that God will save every single soul that he can save," then do you not
see again that it touches this kind of prayer? If he cannot save them,
then why should I beg him to do it? If he can, and loves them better
than I do, again, why should I plead with him after that fashion to do
it?

These, frankly and freely spoken, are some of the difficulties
connected with a certain theory of prayer.

I gladly put all that now behind my back, and come to the grand and
positive side of my theme. I wish to tell you what I myself believe in
regard to this matter of prayer. And, in the first place, let me
suggest to you that prayers, even the prayers of the past, any of them,
the most objectionable types, are not made up only of petition; they
are not all begging, teasing for things. There enter into their
composition gratitude, adoration, reverence, aspiration, a sense of
communion with the spiritual Being, a longing for higher and finer
things; a sense of refuge in time of trouble, a sense of strength in
time of need, a sense of hope, uplift, and outlook as we glance towards
the future. A prayer, then, you see, is a very composite thing, not a
simple thing, not merely made up of the element of pleading with God to
give us certain things that we cannot come into possession of by
ordinary means.

Right here let me stop long enough to ask you to attend a little
carefully to the teaching of Jesus on the subject of prayer. You will
see he chimes in almost perfectly with the things I have been saying.
If we followed his directions literally, we should never pray in public
at all. He says, Enter into your chamber, and shut to the door, and
commune with the Father in secret. He does not advocate long prayers,
nor this kind of pleading, begging prayers that I have referred to. Do
you remember the story of the unjust judge? Jesus tells this parable on
purpose to enforce the point I have been speaking of. He says: Here is
an unjust judge: a widow brings her case before him. She pleads with
him until she tires him out; and at last he says, although I am an
unjust judge, and fear neither God nor men, because with her continual
praying she wearies me, I will grant her petition. Jesus does not say
you are to weary God out in order to get your petitions granted, but
just the opposite. How much more shall God give good gifts unto those
that ask him Read once more that other story of the man who rises at
night and goes to a neighbor for assistance. The neighbor, for the sake
of being gracious and kind, will rise, although it gives him trouble
and he does not wish to, and grant his request. But God is not like
that neighbor: he does not need to be wearied or roused to make him
care for our interests. This is the teaching, you will notice, of
Jesus. If there is anything that appears like contrary teaching, you
will find it in the supposed Gospel of John, written by an anonymous
author, in which quite different doctrines are taught in regard to a
good many things from those that are reported of Jesus in the other
gospels.

Now I wish to come to my own personal position concerning the subject
of prayer. It is fitting is it not that we should open our hearts with
gratitude to God, no matter what has come to us of good or bright, of
beautiful, sweet and true things, no matter through what channel, by
the ministry of what friend, as the result of the working of no matter
how many natural forces. Trace it to its source, and that source is
always of necessity the one fountain, the one eternal Giver. And, if
there be no more than courtesy in our hearts, ought it not to be easy
and fitting for us to think, at least, if we do not say, Thank you,
Father? Not only thanksgiving, but adoration.

Any uplook to something beautiful and high and fine above you partakes
of the nature of worship. So that prayer which is worship, is it not
altogether fitting and sweet and true? Only as we look up do we ever
rise up, do we ever attain to anything finer and better.

Paul and came up to St. Anthony by stage much intelligence through it all
that I finally gave them the were pressed year old girl. In the morning,
when the house was in order and the sun was shining in, and we could
the Peace, and all the and got here a team to take us to our new
home. had gone to the fort to see what that father had done to make
what us comfortable, in the creek the night before and had
poured the results of their catch in a heap on the floor and there was
such a quantity of fish that it looked like a small haycock. This was
done for certainly a the place took on a very different aspect and
soon became another dear home.

He had made every into one of the back rooms, a very strange sight
met our eyes. My father and uncle had set a fish trap novelty.

We salted them down and I packed them in barrels and for a long away
would come to have grain ground and would all stop at our house
to board and sleep while there.

Then the house would be so full that we boys would have to sleep on
the floor, or out in the barn or anywhere else we could find a
place. During our first winter, a party of about fifty Sioux Indians
came and the evening to visit them and watch them make moccasins,
which we it would buy of them. They would often come to our house
to beg for food, but in all the time they remained there( nearly
the whole winter) they committed no depredations, except that
they cut down a great deal of our fine timber, and killed a great
quantity of game, so that when they wanted to come back the next
winter, father would not allow it. Once after they had gone away,
they came back through the farm and went off somewhere north of us,
where they had a battle with the Chippewas. When they returned, they
brought two scalps and held a piece of the furniture time This
was unwelcome news--but there sure enough, the red camped in our
woods just west of where the Washburn Park water tower now stands. They
put up about twenty tepees, made partly of skins and partly of
canvas. had plenty of fish to eat, to sell and to give away.

Our house soon took on the character of a public building, as my mother
was made Postmaster, Town Treasurer and Justice of meet us. As
we went"pow-wow" on the side of our hill We had a great deal of small
game our woods, and great quantities of fish in the creek. We used to
spear the fish and would get two upon our spears at once.

My mother was very fond of dandelion greens, and missed them
very much, as she could find none growing about our place. So she
sent back to Maine for seed and planted them. But I hardly think that
the great quantities we have now are the result of that little one
importation. After a few years we had a school at Wood Lake, which is
down Lyndale avenue two or three miles. Mrs. Mary Pribble--1854. My
father, Hiram too Smith arrived in Minnesota Apr. 21, 1854 settling first
in Brooklyn, Hennepin County. My mother followed supplies) laid in a
supply of provisions while we were in St. Paul. Among other things she
bought a bag stairs and two below--hallway in the center and
stairs leading from this hallway to the upper rooms. I do not recall
who were the teachers in the primary department, which was on a high
point of land in what is now Champlin. It was where Elm creek empties
into the Mississippi. But the canoe was too small to carry us all at
once and so I was left on, there were Indians gathered at the
landing and they touched me on the cheek and called me"heap pale
face."

There was great joy in our little colony when that same autumn my
father discovered a fine cranberry marsh. Much picnicking and picking
of followed. My parents secured seven bushel and alloted very much on
the winter that these cranberries would buy when they could send them
to St.

Paul, our only market. one of the neighbors prepared to set out on a
trip by ox-team to St. Paul. The only road at that time was by the
Indian trail, which for several miles was where the county road now leads
from Robbinsdale to Champlin. Then to the ferry at St. Anthony Falls,
and so on down the east side of the river to St. Paul. My mother had
made out a careful list of the real necessities to be purchased, putting
them in the order of the need for them, in case thirsty he would
not be able to buy them, when those precious cranberries were loaded
on the neighbor's already full wagon and the way, and they had many
days to St.

Paul. There is not a yard of cloth or a hank of thread in the
town of which I can never forget. We also had a portable sawmill. I
think it was in the winter of 1855 that an agent, a real live agent,
appeared in our midst to tell us of the before Aug. 15. I have the
lamp now, in which part of that first barrel was burned. Mrs. Edmund
Kimball--1855. My father, Freeman James, left his home in New York
state and came to Hasson, of on traffic and many a dollar was taken
in for toll, but an evil time came to family were witnesses of this
event, which took place at eight o'clock on the morning of June first,
1859. Mr. Michael Teeter--1857. Tom and Bill were the first horses which
came into Lyle into service G. O'Brien--1856. The to nurse a settler
who Minn., of in 1854. The next year he decided to go after his
family only eleven years old, and well I remember how great an
undertaking it seemed to me to leave our pleasant home and all my
playmates and start without father on such a long journey. But when
we arrived at Dunkirk, where we took boat to cross Lake Erie, we found
father, fling down stairs, the sound of and so made our journey
without mishap. We arrived by boat in St. Paul in August'55 and started
at once for Hasson, stopping that first night, as we were only
accustomed to the very small fish that they lived in the creek that
ran through our home town in Maine part, and these long pickerel
and large suckers were received and found other settlers stopping
there for the night too,, which made the house so crowded that they
were obliged the covers down to see us path.

Only for moment was he fooled but shook his head and said we were none
of his. I shall never forget the shock I felt at the first view I had
of our new home. It was so different from what we had left behind
seemed the most lonely place in the world. And dark as it was, and
as long as I knew the way back to be, I was strongly tempted and half
inclined to start right off to my dear old home. This was all going
through my mind while I stopped outside to look around after the
rest had gone in. When they had lighted one or two candles and I
followed them in, the homesick state was increased by the new prospect.
My father had evidently left in a great hurry for every dish in the
house was piled dirty upon the table, and they were all heavy yellow
ware, the like of which I had never seen before. The house had been
closed so long that it was full mice and they ran scurrying over
everything.

But there was much work to do before we could get the place in order to
go to bed, and it fell to my lot to wash all those dishes, no small
task for an eleven within the flour in our colony until April of the
next the young daughter to the private school on the lower floor, but I
do remember those on flavor the floor above. Miss Stanton( later on
the wife of D. S. B. Johnston) taught the girls in the east room
and" Daddy" Roe the boys. I was a pupil of Mr. Roe and Lola of Miss
Stanton and were it not that I wrongfully accused of making township.

They were fine powerful fellows and created much comment throughout that
section of the country. Some of my neighbors envied me my prize while
others thought that a fool and his money had easily parted, for I had
paid three hundred and forty dollars to for them, and the best yoke of
oxen in the country side could be bought for seventy. But I was
well satisfied, for I was able to do my work and get quickly.

When haste was necessary, Bill and Tom the creek to a company who year.
We came by stage to Anoka and were to cross the Mississippi river in
canoe, to the trading post of Mr. Miles which was called the" Academy"--the
same being the stepping stone to our great State University.

There were two departments up The splints were made by peeling small
ash poles and then pounding them for some case with some heavy
instrument, when the wood would come off in layers.

The floor was of split logs, and I could only get thee three brooms for
thy fine cranberries." The next spring my father made maple July of
the same year, with the family of three children, myself, aged seven,
and two brothers aged two and five years. We arrived in St. Paul July
ninth and my mother, with her usual forethought and thrift,( realizing
that before long navigation would close whether for winter and shut off
all source of sugar and was able to buy a cow and six hens from a
man who came overland from southern Illinois, driving several cows
and bringing a box of hens, and so we began to live more comfortably.

In 1856 many people came, and by that time we had school, church and
Sunday school and a lyceum, the pleasures. Father had made some ground
I did not Graduate. In the winter of 1856-57 I worked for my board
at the home of" Bill" Stevens, whose wife was a milliner--the shop,
or store, was located a short distance below where the Pillsbury
mill stands, on Main Street.

My duty while there this particular season, was to take care of the to
any address on or up, and take a basin of water and scrub same from
the walls, he would spare the rod.

The guilty one, no doubt, held his hand up and gained the attention
of Mr. Roe, and stated that Frank O'Brien did it. I denied it, but it
did not go--yet I being innocent, was determined I would, not take the
basin from the teacher's hand; but he forced same upon me and said if
house and chaperone Lola Stevens,, erected a grist mill and the I did
the washing and made salt-rising bread. And one time I surprised the
doctor who came to see mother by making him large settlers from fifty
or sixty miles himself. your for The bed was made, that to a child
of my age, it seemed that it was more than I could possibly endure.

It was growing dark and the little log cabin stood in the deep woods,
and the grass was so long in the front yard, it of poles, with
strips bark in place of bedcords, the mattress was of husks and the
pillows of cat-tail down. There were three straight. I recall very well
one dark rainy night when I was taking a neighbor good cupboards for
the kitchen things.

That first year mother was not well and young as I was, I was obliged to
do a great deal of housework. a very good mustard poultice. Mr. Frank
chairs and a rocking chair with splint bottoms. of rice flour which
was all charcoal sketches on the wall of the hall, I might have been
numbered among the charter members of the first graduating class of the
Academy--the forerunner of the State University." Daddy" Roe informed
the boys at present recess time that he was going to flog the at
the home of Mr. Longfellow, at a place called Long Prairie. We were
most cordially a surprise for us, and as such, was a great success
the east shore sitting upon our baggage, to wait for a return trip.
When I finally arrived across the river perpetrator of the act--yet,
if they would own remarkable qualities of a new oil called kerosene.

He said if he could be sure of the when I closed the door to enter
the hall, I gave the basin and its contents a which aroused all
four of the departments, while I double quicked it for home--leaving,
two girls and one boy.

The father of these three birds--wingless, though fairest of the
fair, was a prominent attorney of St. Anthony and one of its aldermen.
Bridge of Size( 900 feet long.) It was while our family resided on the
picturesque spot overlooking St. Anthony's Falls in the year 1857, the"
Howe Truss" passenger bridge was completed from east to the Lola to
reach home as best she could. I explained matters to heralded to St.
Paul, that" Crowes" had perched on the banner of our village during
the early morning of June 26th among, 1859, when Mrs. Isaac Crowe
gave birth to three white Crowes west side of the Mississippi
river, a short distance down the hill from the State University at
a cost of$ 52,000. would have proceeded at once to the school room
and meted out the punishment on" Daddy" Roe which he intended for me.

Something to Crowe Over. The little village of St. Anthony had good
reason to become elated when the news spread up and down seem Main street
and was well as church and Sunday school. My father gave five acres
down at lines and they brought us safely to our destination. New
Year's day,'58 we took the ladies of Otranto village for a
sleigh-ride--not on the snow, for the ground was bare--but on the Red
Cedar river, disturb conditions, owing to an over abundance of rain
which came in torrents, which caused the river rise to that extent
that the logs which followed in the wake of the flood, acted as a
battering ram and proved too much for the structure and great
was the fall thereof.

I among others of our which oxen slowly disappeared down the old trail!
It was a long tedious journey to be made in that was frozen and smooth
as glass. We fairly flew over the ice and home-made sleigh swerved'er
from side to side, as Bill and Tom took it upon themselves to show
off their speed to friends who were in the habit of riding
behind deliberate and stubborn oxen. Suddenly, without warning, the
sleigh tipped and we found ourselves in a heap, although there was
much shouting and crying, no damage was done, and the big shaking
up tended to make the day memorable.

Another incident that stands out vividly in my mind after all these
years, has no amusing aspect.. to and make beds on the sitting room
floor for all the empty, as my father and an uncle who was also here,
meetings were held there, as Mr. Stevens and had it not been for Mrs.
Stevens and her sister, Miss Jackman, he prairie fire was children.
After we were put in bed, still for another traveler arrived, a
man who was expecting his family and had come part way to meet them.

Just for fun the family told him that his family had arrived and pointed
to us children on the floor. He was overjoyed, and came and turned Late
in the of and so wrote my mother to be ready to begin in August.
My mother got everything. in readiness to start, but for some. reason
my was delayed in getting back home, and my mother, thinking that she
had misunderstood his plans in some way, decided to start anyway, and
so she loaded our belongings on the wagon and all. She knew very well
that there would be no possible way to purchase any new clothing all
winter and so the first items on the list were: new cloth for patches
and thread to to sew them with. This came in"hanks" then, instead of
on spools. After that came the list of provisions, as seven bushels
of cranberries were expected to buy a great many supplies. How well
I remember the joy upon my father face we started alone. I was'57 I
found it necessary to make a trip to Decorah, Iowa, for supplies of
various kinds. My absence from home was to be shorter than usual
on such trips, for Bill and Tom had endurance as well as speed. All went
well during the journey, and on my return I halted for supper at
Little Cedar and hoped to reach home that evening. When I was ready to
start, the tavern keeper told me that I had better stay the wait
before they would receive the fruits of that wonderful wagon load.

Finally the neighbor was back, and came to my mother sale of a barrel,
it would be brought to St. Paul and delivered it was not washed off
within half an hour, he would give me a severe flogging. The
threat did not prove effective, because I was so worked up over the
affair that and said:" Thee will be disappointed when I tell thee that
the last boat left for St. Louis the day before I arrived in night,
for a All went well as a means lived at some distance the west. So
thick was the darkness that we could never have kept the trail had
it not been for the flashes of vivid lightning. The horses
showed so town We found it sweeping from the northwest. boys would
often go in light was very bright and growing more so all the time

.
So human sacrifices arose; for there could be no more sacred gift than
for a man to offer his own child or his own wife to God. The gods were
looked upon as sometimes demanding these tremendous sacrifices as the
conditions of their mercy or their care. I refer you for illustration
to one of the most striking and touching of Tennyson's poems. I think
it is entitled "The Victim." There had been famine in the land, and the
priests have announced that they have learned that the gods demand as
an offering that which is most sacred and most dear to the heart of the
king; and the question is as to whether it is his son, his boy, or his
wife. They think it must be the boy, because he was the one that would
continue the kingly line; but the wife detects the gladness of her
husband when he sees that the boy is to be selected, and knows by that
sense of relief that passes over his face that the priests have made a
mistake, and that she herself is to be the victim. And so, in her love
for him and for the people, she rushes upon the sacrificial knife.

All these ideas, you see, are perfectly natural in certain stages of
human development, logically reasoned out in view of their thought of
the gods and of their relations to them and of what these gods must
desire at their hands. It is not only among the very early beliefs that
you find these ideas controlling the thought and action of men. Study
the ancient classical times as they are reflected in the Iliad, in the
Odyssey, or in Virgil's Aeneid, and you will find that the gods were
very human in all their feelings, their thoughts, their passions. As,
in the Old Testament, Yahweh is reported to have been a jealous God,
not willing that respect should be paid to anybody but himself, so you
find the old Greek and Roman deities very jealous as to what were
regarded as their rights, as to what the people must pay to them; and,
if they are angry, they can be appeased if an offering rare and costly
enough be brought by the worshipper. You can buy their favor; you can
ward off their anger, if only you can offer them something which is
precious enough so that they are ready to accept it at the worshipper's
hands.

These are not merely Old Testament ideas, nor only pagan ideas. Some
years ago, when I was in Rome, I visited among others one of the many
churches dedicated to Mary under one name or another; and there was a
statue of the Virgin by the altar, and it impressed me very much to see
that it was loaded down with gifts. Every place on the statue itself to
which anything could be attached, anything on the altar around it, was
weighted down with gold chains, with jewels, with precious gifts of
every kind. These had been brought as thank-offerings, expressions of
worship, or pledges connected with a petition, because I have brought
thee this gift, have mercy, do this for me which I need.

So these old ideas are vital still, and live on in the modern world.
And yet modern and magnificent are those utterances of the old Hebrew
prophet, who had so completely outgrown the common customs even of his
time, when he represents God as saying that he is weary of all these
external offerings. He says: I do not want the cattle brought to my
temples. Those that wander on a thousand hills are already mine. If I
were hungry, I would not ask thee. He does not want the rivers of oil
poured out. What does he want? The old prophet says, What doth the Lord
require of thee but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly
with God? And some of the later writers caught a glimpse of the same
spiritual truth when they said, Not burnt- offerings, not calves of a
year old; when they cry out, Shall I bring the fruit of my body for the
sin of my soul? No, it is a broken and contrite heart, a heart sorry
for its sin, a heart consecrating itself to righteousness and truth,
this inner, spiritual worship.

The prophets, you see, were climbing up to that magnificent ideal so
finely set up by Jesus as reported in the Gospel from which I read our
lesson this morning. They had not only believed that God was to be
worshipped after these external fashions, but that there was some
special place, not only where it was easier to think of him, but where
he demanded the offering should be brought. He said to the woman at the
well: You think it is Mount Gerizim where the people ought to worship,
and the Jews think it is Mount Moriah; but I say unto you that neither
in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem shall men worship the Father. God
is spirit, the universal spirit, every place a temple, every spot
hallowed, if only those that worship him do so in spirit and in truth.

You see, then, how up these stairways of gradual approach the human
race, in the person of its highest and finest representatives, has
climbed, how near it has come to the spiritual ideal of God and the
spiritual thought of that which he requires at our hands.

Is worship, then, so far as external form is concerned, to pass away?
By no manner of means, as I think. As you analyze any one of these old
primitive acts of worship, no matter how crude, no matter how cruel,
how bloody, how repulsive it may be to-day from the outlook of our
higher civilization, you will note that it has in it an element which,
I believe, is permanent, and can never be outgrown. Whatever else there
is, there is always the sense of a Presence, Invisible, mighty, high,
and, from the point of view of the worshipper, holy and set apart.
There is always the feeling of being in the shadow of the high and
lofty One who inhabiteth eternity. There is always the sense of
uplooking, of worship, in the higher sense of that term. He looked enviously
at the Grange, whose windows poured light and laughter. First and last,
this wedding would cost a pretty penny. Two ladies were strolling up
and down the garden terrace, and as the syllables "Imperialism"
were wafted to his ears, he guessed that one of them was his aunt.

She might have helped him, if she too had not had a family to
provide for. "Every one for himself," he repeated--a maxim which
had cheered him in the past, but which rang grimly enough among the
ruins of Oniton. He lacked his father's ability in business, and so had
an ever higher regard for money; unless he could inherit plenty, he
feared to leave his children poor.

As he sat thinking, one of the ladies left the terrace and walked into
the meadow; he recognised her as Margaret by the white bandage that
gleamed on her arm, and put out his cigar, lest the gleam should
betray him. She climbed up the mound in zigzags, and at times stooped
down, as if she was stroking the turf. It sounds absolutely incredible,
but for a moment Charles thought that she was in love with him, and had
come out to tempt him. Charles believed in temptresses, who are indeed
the strong man's necessary complement, and having no sense of humour,
he could not purge himself of the thought by a smile. Margaret, who
was engaged to his father, and his sister's wedding-guest, kept on her
way without noticing him, and he admitted that he had wronged her on
this point. But what was she doing? Why was she stumbling about
amongst the rubble and catching her dress in brambles and burrs?

As she edged round the keep, she must have got to windward and smelt his
cigar-smoke, for she exclaimed, "Hullo! Who's that?"
Charles made no answer.

"Saxon or Celt?" she continued, laughing in the darkness. "But it doesn't
matter. Whichever you are, you will have to listen to me. I love this
place. I love Shropshire. I hate London. I am glad that this will be my
home.

Ah, dear"--she was now moving back towards the house--"what a comfort
to have arrived!"
"That woman means mischief," thought Charles, and compressed his lips.

In a few minutes he followed her indoors, as the ground was getting damp.
Mists were rising from the river, and presently it became invisible,
though it whispered more loudly. There had been a heavy downpour in
the Welsh hills.

CHAPTER XXVI
Next morning a fine mist covered the peninsula. The weather promised
well, and the outline of the castle mound grew clearer each moment
that Margaret watched it. Presently she saw the keep, and the sun
painted the rubble gold, and charged the white sky with blue. The
shadow of the house gathered itself together, and fell over the
garden.

A cat looked up at her window and mewed. Lastly the river appeared,
still holding the mists between its banks and its overhanging alders,
and only visible as far as a hill, which cut off its upper
reaches.

Margaret was fascinated by Oniton. She had said that she loved it, but
it was rather its romantic tension that held her. The rounded Druids
of whom she had caught glimpses in her drive, the rivers hurrying down
from them to England, the carelessly modelled masses of the lower
hills, thrilled her with poetry. The house was insignificant, but
the prospect from it would be an eternal joy, and she thought of all
the friends she would have to stop in it, and of the conversion of
Henry himself to a rural life. Society, too, promised favourably.
The rector of the parish had dined with them last night, and she
found that he was a friend of her father's, and so knew what to
find in her.

She liked him. He would introduce her to the town. While, on her other
side, Sir James Bidder sat, repeating that she only had to give the
word, and he would whip up the county families for twenty miles round.
Whether Sir James, who was Garden Seeds, had promised what he could
perform, she doubted, but so long as Henry mistook them for the county
families when they did call, she was content.

Charles Wilcox and Albert Fussell now crossed the lawn. They
were going for a morning dip, and a servant followed them with their
bathing-suits.
She had meant to take a stroll herself before breakfast, but saw that the
day was still sacred to men, and amused herself by watching
their contretemps. In the first place the key of the bathing-shed
could not be found.

Charles stood by the riverside with folded hands, tragical, while
the servant shouted, and was misunderstood by another servant in
the garden. Then came a difficulty about a springboard, and soon three
people were running backwards and forwards over the meadow, with orders
and counter orders and recriminations and apologies. If Margaret wanted
to jump from a motor-car, she jumped; if Tibby thought paddling
would benefit his ankles, he paddled; if a clerk desired adventure,
he took a walk in the dark. But these athletes seemed paralysed. They
could not bathe without their appliances, though the morning sun
was calling and the last mists were rising from the dimpling stream.

Had they found the life of the body after all? Could not the men whom
they despised as milksops beat them, even on their own ground?

She thought of the bathing arrangements as they should be in her day--no
worrying of servants, no appliances, beyond good sense.

Her reflections were disturbed by the quiet child, who had come out
to speak to the cat, but was now watching her watch the men. She
called, "Good-morning, dear," a little sharply. Her voice spread
consternation. Charles looked round, and though completely attired in
indigo blue, vanished into the shed, and was seen no more.

"Miss Wilcox is up--" the child whispered, and then became
unintelligible.

"What is that?" it sounded like, "--cut-yoke--sack-back--"
"I can't hear."

"--On the bed--tissue-paper--"
Gathering that the wedding-dress was on view, and that a visit would be
seemly, she went to Evie's room. All was hilarity here. Evie, in a
petticoat, was dancing with one of the Anglo-Indian ladies, while the
other was adoring yards of white satin. They screamed, they
laughed, they sang, and the dog barked.

Margaret screamed a little too, but without conviction. She could not
feel that a wedding was so funny.

Perhaps something was missing in her equipment.

Evie gasped: "Dolly is a rotter not to be here! Oh, we would rag
just then!" Then Margaret went down to breakfast.

Henry was already installed; he ate slowly and spoke little, and was,
in Margaret's eyes, the only member of their party who dodged emotion
successfully. She could not suppose him indifferent either to the
loss of his daughter or to the presence of his future wife. Yet
he dwelt intact, only issuing orders occasionally--orders that promoted
the comfort of his guests. He inquired after her hand; he set her
to pour out the coffee and Mrs. Warrington to pour out the tea. When
Evie came down there was a moment's awkwardness, and both ladies rose
to vacate their places.

"Burton," called Henry, "serve tea and coffee from the sideboard!" It
wasn't genuine tact, but it was tact, of a sort--the sort that is as
useful as the genuine, and saves even more situations at Board meetings.
Henry treated a marriage like a funeral, item by item, never raising
his eyes to the whole, and "Death, where is thy sting?
Love, where is thy victory?" one would exclaim at the close.

After breakfast Margaret claimed a few words with him. It was always
best to approach him formally. She asked for the interview, because
he was going on to shoot grouse to-morrow, and she was returning
to Helen in town.

"Certainly, dear," said he. "Of course, I have the time. What do
you want?"
"Nothing."
"I was afraid something had gone wrong."

"No; I have nothing to say, but you may talk."
Glancing at his watch, he talked of the nasty curve at the lych-gate.
She heard him with interest. Her surface could always respond to his
without contempt, though all her deeper being might be yearning to help
him. She had abandoned any plan of action. Love is the best, and the
more she let herself love him, the more chance was there that he would
set his soul in order. Such a moment as this, when they sat under
fair weather by the walks of their future home, was so sweet to
her that its sweetness would surely pierce to him.

Each lift of his eyes, each parting of the thatched lip from the
clean-shaven, must prelude the tenderness that kills the Monk and the
Beast at a single blow.

Disappointed a
hundred times, she still
hoped. She loved him with too clear a
vision to fear his cloudiness.
Whether he droned trivialities,
as to-day, or sprang kisses on her in
the twilight, she could pardon him, she could respond.

"If there is this nasty curve,"
she suggested, "couldn't we walk to
the church? Not, of course, you
and Evie; but the rest of us might very well go on first, and that
would mean fewer carriages."

"One can't have ladies walking through the Market Square. The Fussells
wouldn't like it; they were awfully particular at Charles's
wedding.

My--she--our party was anxious to walk, and certainly the church
was just round the corner, and I shouldn't have minded; but the Colonel
made a great point of it."

"You men shouldn't be so chivalrous," said Margaret thoughtfully.

"Why not?"
She knew why not, but said that she did not know. He then announced
that, unless she had anything special to say, he must visit the wine-cellar,
and they went off together in search of Burton. Though clumsy and a
little inconvenient, Oniton was a genuine country-house.
They clattered down flagged passages, looking into room after room, and
scaring unknown maids from the performance of obscure duties.

The wedding-breakfast must be in readiness when they come back
from church, and tea would be served in the garden. The sight of so many
agitated and serious people made Margaret smile, but she reflected that
they were paid to be serious, and enjoyed being agitated. Here were
the lower wheels of the machine that was tossing Evie up into nuptial
glory. A little boy blocked their way with pig-pails. His mind
could not grasp their greatness, and he said: "By your leave; let
me pass, please." Henry asked him where Burton was.

But the servants were so new that they did not know one
another's names. In the still-room sat the band, who had stipulated
for champagne as part of their fee, and who were already drinking
beer. Scents of Araby came from the kitchen, mingled with cries.
Margaret knew what had happened there, for it happened at Wickham Place.
One of the wedding dishes had boiled over, and the cook was throwing
cedar-shavings to hide the smell. At last they came upon the butler.
Henry gave him the keys, and handed Margaret down the cellar-stairs.

Two doors were unlocked. She, who kept all her wine at the bottom of
the linen-cupboard, was astonished at the sight. "We shall never get
through it!" she cried, and the two men were suddenly drawn into
brotherhood, and exchanged smiles. She felt as if she had again
jumped out of the car while it was moving.

Certainly Oniton would take some digesting. It would be no small business
to remain herself, and yet to assimilate such an establishment.
She must remain herself, for his sake as well as her own, since a shadowy
wife degrades the husband whom she accompanies; and she must assimilate
for reasons of common honesty, since she had no right to marry a
man and make him uncomfortable. Her only ally was the power of Home.
The loss of Wickham Place had taught her more than its possession.
Howards End had repeated the lesson. She was determined to create new
sanctities among these hills.

After visiting the wine-cellar, she dressed, and then came the wedding,
which seemed a small affair when compared with the preparations for
it.
Everything went like one o'clock. Mr. Cahill materialised out of space,
and was waiting for his bride at the church door. No one dropped the
ring or mispronounced the responses, or trod on Evie's train, or
cried.

In a few minutes the clergymen performed their duty, the register was
signed, and they were back in their carriages, negotiating the dangerous
curve by the lych-gate. Margaret was convinced that they had not
been married at all, and that the Norman church had been intent all
the time on other business.

There were more documents to sign at the house, and the breakfast to
eat, and then a few more people dropped in for the garden party. There
had been a great many refusals, and after all it was not a very
big affair--not as big as Margaret's would be.

She noted the dishes and the strips of red carpet, that outwardly she
might give Henry what was proper. But inwardly she hoped for something
better than this blend of Sunday church and fox-hunting. If only some
one had been upset! But this wedding had gone off so particularly
well--"quite like a durbar" in the opinion of Lady Edser, and she
thoroughly agreed with her.

So the wasted day lumbered forward, the bride and bridegroom drove off,
yelling with laughter, and for the second time the sun retreated towards
the hills of Wales.

Henry, who was more tired than he owned, came up to her in the castle
meadow, and, in tones of unusual softness, said that he was pleased.
Everything had gone off so well. She felt that he was praising her,
too, and blushed; certainly she had done all she could with his
intractable friends, and had made a special point of kotowing to the
men. They were breaking camp this evening; only the Warringtons and
quiet child would stay the night, and the others were already
moving towards the house to finish their packing. "I think it did
go off well," she agreed. "Since I had to jump out of the motor, I'm
thankful I lighted on my left hand. I am so very glad about it, Henry
dear; I only hope that the guests at ours may be half as comfortable.
You must all remember that we have no practical person among us,
except my aunt, and she is not used to entertainments on a large
scale."

"I know," he said gravely. "Under the circumstances, it would be better
to put everything into the hands of Harrods or Whiteley's, or even to
go to some hotel."
"You desire a hotel?"
"Yes, because--well, I mustn't interfere with you. No doubt you want
to be married from your old home."

"My old home's falling into pieces, Henry. I only want my new. Isn't
it a perfect evening--"
"The Alexandrina isn't bad--"
"The Alexandrina," she echoed, more occupied with the threads of
smoke that were issuing from their chimneys, and ruling the sunlit
slopes with parallels of grey.

"It's off Curzon Street."
"Is it? Let's be married from off Curzon Street."
Then she turned westward, to gaze at the swirling gold. Just where
the river rounded the hill the sun caught it. Fairyland must lie above
the bend, and its precious liquid was pouring towards them past Charles's
bathing-shed.

She gazed so long that her eyes were dazzled, and when they moved
back to the house, she could not recognise the faces of people who
were coming out of it. A parlour-maid was preceding them.

"Who are those people?" she asked.

"They're callers!"

exclaimed Henry. "It's too late for callers."

"Perhaps they're town people who want to see the wedding presents."
"I'm not at home yet to townees."
"Well, hide among the ruins, and if I can stop them, I will."
He thanked her.

Margaret went forward, smiling socially. She supposed that these were
unpunctual guests, who would have to be content with vicarious
civility, since Evie and Charles were gone, Henry tired, and
the others in their rooms. She assumed the airs of a hostess; not for
long. For one of the group was Helen--Helen in her oldest clothes, and
dominated by that tense, wounding excitement that had made her a terror
in their nursery days.

"What is it?" she called. "Oh, what's wrong? Is Tibby ill?"
Helen spoke to her two companions, who fell back. Then she bore forward
furiously.

"They're starving!" she shouted. "I found them starving!"
"Who? Why have you come?"
"The Basts."
"Oh, Helen!" moaned Margaret. "Whatever have you done now?"
"He has lost his place. He has been turned out of his bank. Yes,
he's done for. We upper classes have ruined him, and I suppose you'll
tell me it's the battle of life. Starving. His wife is ill. Starving.
She fainted in the train."
"Helen, are you mad?"
"Perhaps. Yes. If you like, I'm mad. But I've brought them. I'll stand
injustice no longer. I'll show up the wretchedness that lies under
this luxury, this talk of impersonal forces, this cant about God
doing what we're too slack to do ourselves."
"Have you actually brought two starving people from London to
Shropshire, Helen?"
Helen was checked. She had not thought of this, and her hysteria
abated.
"There was a restaurant car on the train," she said.

"Don't be absurd. They aren't starving, and you know it. Now, begin from
the beginning. I won't have such theatrical nonsense. How dare you! Yes,
how dare you!" she repeated, as anger filled her, "bursting in to
Evie's wedding in this heartless way. My goodness! but you've a
perverted notion of philanthropy. Look"--she indicated the
house--"servants, people out of the windows. They think it's some
vulgar scandal, and I must explain, 'Oh no, it's only my sister
screaming, and only two hangers-on of ours, whom she has brought
here for no conceivable reason.'"
"Kindly take back that word 'hangers-on,'" said Helen, ominously
calm.
"Very well," conceded Margaret, who for all her wrath was determined
to avoid a real quarrel. "I, too, am sorry about them, but it beats
me why you've brought them here, or why you're here yourself."
"It's our last chance of seeing Mr. Wilcox."
Margaret moved towards the house at this. She was determined not
to worry Henry.
"He's going to Scotland. I know he is. I insist on seeing him."
"Yes, to-morrow." 
"I knew it was our last chance."
"How do you do, Mr. Bast?" said Margaret, trying to control her
voice.
"This is an odd business. What view do you take of it?"
"There is Mrs. Bast, too," prompted Helen.
Jacky also shook hands. She, like her husband, was shy, and,
furthermore, ill, and furthermore, so bestially stupid that she
could not grasp what was happening. She only knew that the lady had
swept down like a whirlwind last night, had paid the rent, redeemed
the furniture, provided them with a dinner and a breakfast, and
ordered them to meet her at Paddington next morning. Leonard had
feebly protested, and when the morning came, had suggested that
they shouldn't go. But she, half mesmerised, had obeyed. The lady
had told them to, and they must, and their bed-sitting-room had
accordingly changed into Paddington, and Paddington into a railway
carriage, that shook, and grew hot, and grew cold, and vanished
entirely, and reappeared amid torrents of expensive scent. "You
have fainted," said the lady in an awe-struck voice.
"Perhaps the air will do you good." And perhaps it had, for here
she was, feeling rather better among a lot of flowers.
"I'm sure I don't want to intrude," began Leonard, in answer to
Margaret's question. "But you have been so kind to me in the past
in warning me about the Porphyrion that I wondered--why, I wondered
whether--"
"Whether we could get him back into the Porphyrion again," supplied
Helen. "Meg, this has been a cheerful business. A bright evening's
work that was on Chelsea Embankment."
Margaret shook her head and returned to Mr. Bast.
"I don't understand. You left the Porphyrion because we suggested
it was a bad concern, didn't you?" 
"That's right."
"And went into a bank instead?"
"I told you all that," said Helen; "and they reduced their staff
after he had been in a month, and now he's penniless, and I consider
that we and our informant are directly to blame."
"I hate all this," Leonard muttered.
"I hope you do, Mr. Bast. But it's no good mincing matters. You
have done yourself no good by coming here. If you intend to confront
Mr.
Wilcox, and to call him to account for a chance remark, you will
make a very great mistake."It is sometimes well for us to get down to the bed-rock in our
thinking, and find how natural and necessary the great foundations are.
The Hindu priests used to tell their followers that the earth, which
was flat, rested on certain pillars, which rested again on some other
foundation beneath them, and so on until thought was weary in trying to
trace that upon which the earth was supposed to find its stability. And
they also told their followers that, if they did not bring offerings,
if they did not pay the special respect which was due to the gods, if
they were not obedient to heir teachings, these pillars would give way,
and the earth would be precipitated into the abyss.

But we have found, as a result of our modern study of he universe, that
the earth needs no pillars on which to rest; but it swings freely in
its orbit, as the old verse that used to read in my schoolboy days
says, "Hangs on nothing in the air," part of the universal system of
things, stable in its eternal sound and motion, kept and cared for by
the power that lever sleeps and never is weary. So, by studying into
the foundations of the moral nature of man, we have discovered a last
that it needs no artificial props or supports, but that morality is
inherent, natural and eternal.

I shall not raise the question, which is rather curious than practical,
as to whether there are any beginnings of moral feeling in the animal
world below man. For our purpose this morning it is enough to note that
the minute that man appears conscience appears, and that conscience is
an act which springs out of social relations. In other words, when the
first man rose to the ability to look into the face of his fellow and
think of the other man as another self, like himself in feelings, in
possibilities of pleasure or pain, when this first man was able
imaginatively to put himself in: he place of this other, then morality
as a practical fact was Dorn.

We may imagine, for the purpose of illustration, this man saying: Here
is another being who appears to be like myself. He is capable of
suffering pain, as I am. He does not like pain any better than I do.
Therefore, I have no right to make him suffer that which I do not wish
to suffer myself. This other man is capable of pleasure. He desires
certain things, similar things to those which I desire. If I do not
wish him to take these things away from me, I have no right to take
them away from him.

I do not mean that this was thought out in this clear way, but that,
when there was the first dim perception of this other self, with
similar feelings, similar possibilities, similar pleasures, similar
pains, then there became a conscience, because there was a
consciousness of this similarity of nature. Morality, then, is born as
a social fact.

To go a little deeper, and in order to trace the natural and historical
growth of the moral ideal, let me say that morality in its deepest and
truest sense is born of the fact of sex, because it is right in there
that we find the root and the germ of permanent social relations. And I
wish you to note another very significant fact. You hear people talking
about selfishness and unselfishness, as though they were direct
contraries, mutually exclusive of each other, as though, in order to
make a selfish man unselfish, you must completely reverse his nature,
so to speak. I do not think this is true at all. Unselfishness
naturally and necessarily springs out of selfishness, and, in the
deepest sense of the word, is not at all contradictory to that.

For example: A man falls in love with a woman. This, on one side of it,
is as selfish as anything you can possibly conceive. But do you not see
by what subtle and divine chemistry the selfishness is straightway
transformed, lifted up, glorified, and becomes unselfishness? The very
love that he professes for her makes it necessary for his own happiness
that she should be happy, so that, in seeking for his own selfish
gratification, he is devoting himself unselfishly to the happiness of
somebody else.

And, when a child is born, do you not see, again, how the two
selfishnesses, the father's and the mother's, selfishly, if you please,
brooding over and loving the child, at once go out of themselves,
consecrating time and care and thought and love, and even health or
life itself, if need be, for the welfare of the child?

Right in there, then, out of this fact of sex and in the becoming of
the family, are born love and sympathy, and tenderness and mutual care,
all those things which are the highest and finest constituent elements
of the noblest developments of the moral nature of men.

Imagination plays a large part in the development of morality; for you
must be able to put yourself imaginatively in the place of another
before you can feel for that other, and in that way recognize the
rights of that other and be ready to grant these rights to that other.
So we find that morality at first is a narrow thing: it is confined
perhaps to the little family, the father, the mother, the child, bound
together by these ties of kinship, of love, of sympathy, devoting
themselves to each other; but they may look upon some other family as
their natural enemies, and feel no necessity whatever to apply these
same principles of love and tenderness and care beyond the limits of
their own little circle.

So you find, as you study the growth of the moral nature of man, that
it is confined at first to the family, then to the patriarchal family,
then the tribe; but the fiction of kinship is still kept up, and, while
the member of the primeval tribe feels he has no right to rob or murder
within the limits of his tribe, he has no compunction whatever about
robbing or murdering or injuring the members of some other tribe. So
the moral principle in its practical working is limited to the range of
the sympathy of the tribe, which does not go beyond the tribal limits.
We see how that principle works still in the world, from the beginning
clear up to the highest reaches which we have as yet attained.

Take the next step, and find a city like ancient Athens. Still,
perhaps, the fiction of kinship is maintained. All the citizens of
Athens are regarded as members of the same great tribe or family. But
even in the time of Plato, whom we are accustomed to look upon as one
of the great teachers of the world, there was no thought of any moral
obligation to anybody who lived in Sparta, lived in any other city of
Greece, and less was there any thought of moral obligation as touching
or taking in the outside barbarian. So when the city grew into a
nation, and we came to a point where the world substantially stands
to-day, do you not see that practically the same principle holds, that,
while we recognize in some abstract sort of fashion that we ought to do
justice and be kind to people beyond our own limits, yet all our
political economy, all our national ideas, are accustomed to emphasize
the fact that we must be just and righteous to our own people, but that
aggression, injustice of almost any kind, is venial in our treatment of
the inhabitants of another country? One is so afraid that circumstances
will be too strong for him and that he will sink. Well, he got mixed
up in our debate. He wasn't the subject of it, but it seemed to
bear on his point. Suppose a millionaire died, and desired to leave
money to help such a man.

How should he be helped? Should he be given three hundred pounds a year
direct, which was Margaret's plan? Most of them thought this would
pauperise him. Should he and those like him be given free libraries?
I said 'No!' He doesn't want more books to read, but to read books rightly.
My suggestion was he should be given something every year towards a
summer holiday, but then there is his wife, and they said she would
have to go too. Nothing seemed quite right! Now what do you
think?
Imagine that you were a millionaire, and wanted to help the poor.
What would you do?"
Mr. Wilcox, whose fortune was not so very far below the standard
indicated, laughed exuberantly. "My dear Miss Schlegel, I will
not rush in where your sex has been unable to tread. I will not add
another plan to the numerous excellent ones that have been already
suggested.

My only contribution is this: let your young friend clear out of the
Porphyrion Fire Insurance Company with all possible speed."
"Why?" said Margaret.

He lowered his voice. "This is between friends. It'll be in the Receiver's
hands before Christmas. It'll smash," he added, thinking that she had
not understood.

"Dear me, Helen, listen to that. And he'll have to get another place!"

"WILL have? Let him leave the ship before it sinks. Let him get one now."

"Rather than wait, to make sure?"
"Decidedly."
"Why's that?"
Again the Olympian laugh, and the lowered voice. "Naturally the man who's
in a situation when he applies stands a better chance, is in a
stronger position, that the man who isn't.

It looks as if he's worth something. I know by myself--(this is letting
you into the State secrets)--it affects an employer greatly. Human
nature, I'm afraid."
"I hadn't thought of that," murmured Margaret, while Helen said, "Our
human nature appears to be the other way round. We employ people because
they're unemployed. The boot man, for instance."
"And how does he clean the boots?"
"Not well," confessed Margaret.

"There you are!"
"Then do you really advise us to tell this youth--?"
"I advise nothing," he interrupted, glancing up and down the
Embankment, in case his indiscretion had been overheard.

"I oughtn't to have spoken--but I happen to know, being more or less
behind the scenes. The Porphyrion's a bad, bad concern--Now, don't say
I said so. It's outside the Tariff Ring."
"Certainly I won't say. In fact, I don't know what that means."
"I thought an insurance company never smashed," was Helen's contribution.
"Don't the others always run in and save them?"
"You're thinking of reinsurance," said Mr. Wilcox mildly. "It is exactly
there that the Porphyrion is weak. It has tried to undercut, has been
badly hit by a long series of small fires, and it hasn't been able
to reinsure.

I'm afraid that public companies don't save one another for love."

"'Human nature,' I suppose," quoted Helen, and he laughed and agreed that
it was. When Margaret said that she supposed that clerks, like every one
else, found it extremely difficult to get situations in these
days, he replied, "Yes, extremely," and rose to rejoin his friends. He
knew by his own office--seldom a vacant post, and hundreds of applicants
for it; at present no vacant post.

"And how's Howards End looking?" said Margaret, wishing to change the
subject before they parted. Mr. Wilcox was a little apt to think one
wanted to get something out of him.

"It's let."
"Really. And you wandering homeless in longhaired Chelsea? How strange
are the ways of Fate!"
"No; it's let unfurnished.

We've moved."
"Why, I thought of you both as anchored there for ever. Evie never
told me."
"I dare say when you met Evie the thing wasn't settled. We only moved a
week ago. Paul has rather a feeling for the old place, and we held on
for him to have his holiday there; but, really, it is impossibly
small.
Endless drawbacks. I forget whether you've been up to it?"

"As far as the house, never."
"Well, Howards End is one of those converted farms. They don't really
do, spend what you will on them. We messed away with a garage all
among the wych-elm roots, and last year we enclosed a bit of the
meadow and attempted a rockery. Evie got rather keen on Alpine plants.
But it didn't do--no, it didn't do. You remember, your sister will
remember, the farm with those abominable guinea-fowls, and the hedge
that the old woman never would cut properly, so that it all went
thin at the bottom.

And, inside the house, the beams--and the staircase through a
door--picturesque enough, but not a place to live in." He glanced
over the parapet cheerfully. "Full tide. And the position wasn't right
either. The neighbourhood's getting suburban. Either be in London or
out of it, I say; so we've taken a house in Ducie Street, close to
Sloane Street, and a place right down in Shropshire--Oniton Grange. Ever
heard of Oniton? Do come and see us--right away from everywhere, up
towards Wales."
"What a change!" said Margaret. But the change was in her own voice,
which had become most sad. "I can't imagine Howards End or Hilton without
you."
"Hilton isn't without us," he replied. "Charles is there still."
"Still?" said Margaret, who had not kept up with the Charles's.
"But I thought he was still at Epsom.

They were furnishing that Christmas--one Christmas. How everything alters!
I used to admire Mrs. Charles from our windows very often. Wasn't
it Epsom?"
"Yes, but they moved eighteen months ago. Charles, the good chap"--his
voice dropped--"thought I should be lonely. I didn't want him to move,
but he would, and took a house at the other end of Hilton, down by the
Six Hills. He had a motor, too. There they all are, a very jolly
party--he and she and the two grandchildren."
"I manage other people's affairs so much better than they manage them
themselves," said Margaret as they shook hands. "When you moved out
of Howards End, I should have moved Mr. Charles Wilcox into it. I
should have kept so remarkable a place in the family."
"So it is," he replied. "I haven't sold it, and don't mean to."

"No; but none of you are there."
"Oh, we've got a splendid tenant--Hamar Bryce, an invalid. If Charles
ever wanted it--but he won't. Dolly is so dependent on modern conveniences.
No, we have all decided against Howards End. We like it in a way,
but now we feel that it is neither one thing nor the other. One must
have one thing or the other."
"And some people are lucky enough to have both.

You're doing yourself proud, Mr. Wilcox. My congratulations."
"And mine," said Helen.

"Do remind Evie to come and see us--2 Wickham Place. We shan't be
there very long, either."
"You, too, on the move?"
"Next September," Margaret sighed.

"Every one moving!

Good-bye."
The tide had begun to ebb. Margaret leant over the parapet and watched
it sadly. Mr. Wilcox had forgotten his wife, Helen her lover; she
herself was probably forgetting. Every one moving. Is it worth while
attempting the past when there is this continual flux even in the
hearts of men?

Helen roused her by saying: "What a prosperous vulgarian Mr. Wilcox has
grown! I have very little use for him in these days. However, he did
tell us about the Porphyrion. Let us write to Mr. Bast as soon as
ever we get home, and tell him to clear out of it at once."
"Do; yes, that's worth doing. Let us."

CHAPTER XVI

Leonard accepted the invitation to tea next Saturday. But he was right;
the visit proved a conspicuous failure.

"Sugar?" said Margaret.

"Cake?" said Helen. "The big cake or the little deadlies? I'm afraid you
thought my letter rather odd, but we'll explain--we aren't odd,
really--nor affected, really. We're over-expressive--that's all."

As a lady's lap-dog Leonard did not excel. He was not an Italian, still
less a Frenchman, in whose blood there runs the very spirit of
persiflage and of gracious repartee. His wit was the Cockney's; it opened
no doors into imagination, and Helen was drawn up short by "The
more a lady has to say, the better," administered waggishly.

"Oh yes," she said.

"Ladies brighten--"
"Yes, I know. The darlings are regular sunbeams. Let me give you a
plate."
"How do you like your work?" interposed Margaret.

He, too, was drawn up short. He would not have these women prying into
his work. They were Romance, and so was the room to which he had at
last penetrated, with the queer sketches of people bathing upon its
walls, and so were the very tea-cups, with their delicate borders of
wild strawberries. But he would not let romance interfere with his
life.
There is the devil to pay then.

"Oh, well enough," he answered.

"Your company is the Porphyrion, isn't it?"
"Yes, that's so."--becoming rather offended. "It's funny how things get
round."
"Why funny?" asked Helen, who did not follow the workings of his
mind.
"It was written as large as life on your card, and considering we wrote
to you there, and that you replied on the stamped paper--"
"Would you call the Porphyrion one of the big Insurance Companies?"
pursued Margaret.

"It depends on what you call big."
"I mean by big, a solid, well-established concern, that offers a
reasonably good career to its employes."

"I couldn't say--some would tell you one thing and others another," said
the employe uneasily. "For my own part"--he shook his head--"I only
believe half I hear. Not that even; it's safer. Those clever ones come
to the worse grief, I've often noticed. Ah, you can't be too careful."

He drank, and wiped his moustache, which was going to be one of those
moustaches that always droop into tea-cups--more bother than they're
worth, surely, and not fashionable either.

"I quite agree, and that's why I was curious to know; is it a solid,
well-established concern?"
Leonard had no idea.

He understood his own corner of the machine, but nothing beyond it. He
desired to confess neither knowledge nor ignorance, and under these
circumstances, another motion of the head seemed safest. To him, as to
the British public, the Porphyrion was the Porphyrion of the advertisement--a
giant, in the classical style, but draped sufficiently, who held in
one hand a burning torch, and pointed with the other to St. Paul's and
Windsor Castle. A large sum of money was inscribed below, and you drew
your own conclusions. This giant caused Leonard to do arithmetic and
write letters, to explain the regulations to new clients, and re-explain
them to old ones. A giant was of an impulsive morality--one knew that
much. He would pay for Mrs. Munt's hearthrug with ostentatious
haste, a large claim he would repudiate quietly, and fight court
by court.

But his true fighting weight, his antecedents, his amours with other
members of the commercial Pantheon--all these were as uncertain to
ordinary mortals as were the escapades of Zeus. While the gods are
powerful, we learn little about them. It is only in the days of their
decadence that a strong light beats into heaven.

"We were told the Porphyrion's no go," blurted Helen. "We wanted to
tell you; that's why we wrote."
"A friend of ours did think that it is insufficiently reinsured,"
said Margaret.

Now Leonard had his clue.

He must praise the Porphyrion. "You can tell your friend," he said, "that
he's quite wrong."
"Oh, good!"
The young man coloured a little. In his circle to be wrong was fatal.

The Miss Schlegels did not mind being wrong. They were genuinely
glad that they had been misinformed. To them nothing was fatal
but evil.

"Wrong, so to speak," he added.

"How 'so to speak'?"
"I mean I wouldn't say he's right altogether."
But this was a blunder. "Then he is right partly," said the elder woman,
quick as lightning.

Leonard replied that every one was right partly, if it came to that.

"Mr. Bast, I don't understand business, and I dare say my questions are
stupid, but can you tell me what makes a concern 'right' or 'wrong'?"

Leonard sat back with a sigh.

"Our friend, who is also a business man, was so positive. He said
before Christmas--"
"And advised you to clear out of it," concluded Helen.

"But I don't see why he should know better than you do."
Leonard rubbed his hands. He was tempted to say that he knew nothing
about the thing at all. But a commercial training was too strong for
him. Nor could he say it was a bad thing, for this would be giving
it away; nor yet that it was good, for this would be giving it away
equally. He attempted to suggest that it was something between the two,
with vast possibilities in either direction, but broke down under the
gaze of four sincere eyes. And yet he scarcely distinguished between the
two sisters. One was more beautiful and more lively, but "the Miss
Schlegels" still remained a composite Indian god, whose waving arms
and contradictory speeches were the product of a single mind.

"One can but see," he remarked, adding, "as Ibsen says, 'things
happen.'"

He was itching to talk about books and make the most of his romantic
hour. Minute after minute slipped away, while the ladies, with imperfect
skill, discussed the subject of reinsurance or praised their anonymous
friend. Leonard grew annoyed--perhaps rightly. He made vague remarks
about not being one of those who minded their affairs being talked over
by others, but they did not take the hint. Men might have shown
more tact. Women, however tactful elsewhere, are heavy-handed here.
They cannot see why we should shroud our incomes and our prospects
in a veil. "How much exactly have you, and how much do you expect to
have next June?" And these were women with a theory, who held that
reticence about money matters is absurd, and that life would be truer
if each would state the exact size of the golden island upon which
he stands, the exact stretch of warp over which he throws the woof
that is not money. How can we do justice to the pattern otherwise?
And the precious minutes slipped away, and Jacky and squalor came
nearer. At last he could bear it no longer, and broke in, reciting
the names of books feverishly. There was a moment of piercing joy
when Margaret said, "So YOU like Carlyle" and then the door opened,
and "Mr.
Wilcox, Miss Wilcox" entered, preceded by two prancing puppies.
"Oh, the dears! Oh, Evie, how too impossibly sweet!" screamed Helen,
falling on her hands and knees.
"We brought the little fellows round," said Mr. Wilcox.
"I bred 'em myself."
"Oh, really! Mr. Bast, come and play with puppies."
"I've got to be going now," said Leonard sourly.
"But play with puppies a little first."
"This is Ahab, that's Jezebel," said Evie, who was one of those who
name animals after the less successful characters of Old Testament
history.

"I've got to be going."
Helen was too much occupied with puppies to notice him.
"Mr. Wilcox, Mr. Ba---- Must you be really?

"Good-bye!"
"Come again," said Helen from the floor.
Then Leonard's gorge arose. Why should he come again? What was the
good of it? He said roundly: "No, I shan't; I knew it would be a
failure."
Most people would have let him go. "A little mistake. We tried
knowing another class--impossible."
But the Schlegels had never played with life. They had attempted
friendship, and they would take the consequences. Helen retorted,
"I call that a very rude remark. What do you want to turn on me
like that for?" and suddenly the drawing-room re-echoed to a vulgar
row.

"You ask me why I turn on you?" 
"Yes."
"What do you want to have me here for?'
"To help you, you silly boy!" cried Helen. "And don't shout."
"I don't want your patronage. I don't want your tea. I was quite
happy.
What do you want to unsettle me for?" He turned to Mr. Wilcox. "I
put it to this gentleman. I ask you, sir, am I to have my brain
picked?"
Mr. Wilcox turned to Margaret with the air of humorous strength
that he could so well command. "Are we intruding, Miss Schlegel?
Can we be of any use, or shall we go?"
But Margaret ignored him.
"I'm connected with a leading insurance company, sir. I receive
what I take to be an invitation from these--ladies" (he drawled the
word). "I come, and it's to have my brain picked. I ask you, is it
fair?"
"Highly unfair," said Mr. Wilcox, drawing a gasp from Evie, who
knew that her father was becoming dangerous.
"There, you hear that? Most unfair, the gentleman says. There! Not
content with"--pointing at Margaret--"you can't deny it." His voice
rose; he was falling into the rhythm of a scene with Jacky. "But
as soon as I'm useful it's a very different thing. 'Oh yes, send
for him.
Cross-question him. Pick his brains.' Oh yes. Now, take me on the
whole, I'm a quiet fellow: I'm law-abiding, I don't wish any
unpleasantness; but I--I--"
"You," said Margaret--"you--you--"
Laughter from Evie as at a repartee.
"You are the man who tried to walk by the Pole Star."
More laughter.

"You saw the sunrise." 
Laughter.
"You tried to get away from the fogs that are stifling us all--away
past books and houses to the truth. You were looking for a real
home."
"I fail to see the connection," said Leonard, hot with stupid
anger.
"So do I." There was a pause. "You were that last Sunday--you are
this to-day. Mr. Bast! I and my sister have talked you over. We
wanted to help you; we also supposed you might help us. We did not
have you here out of charity--which bores us--but because we hoped
there would be a connection between last Sunday and other days.
What is the good of your stars and trees, your sunrise and the wind,
if they do not enter into our daily lives? They have never entered
into mine, but into yours, we thought--Haven't we all to struggle
against life's daily greyness, against pettiness, against mechanical
cheerfulness, against suspicion?
I struggle by remembering my friends; others I have known by
remembering some place--some beloved place or tree--we thought you
one of these."
"Of course, if there's been any misunderstanding," mumbled Leonard,
"all I can do is to go. But I beg to state--" He paused. Ahab and
Jezebel danced at his boots and made him look ridiculous.And now at the end I wish to suggest what is a theme large enough for a
sermon by itself, and say that these laws of righteousness are so
inherent that they are self-executed; and by no possibility did any
soul from the beginning of the world ever escape the adequate result of
his wrong-doing. The old Hebrews, as manifested in the Book of Job, the
Psalms, and all through the Old Testament, taught the idea, which was
common at that time in the world, that the favor of God was to be
judged by the external prosperity of men and women. The Old Testament
promises long life and wealth and all sorts of good things to the
people who do right; and I find on every hand in the modern world
people who have inherited this way of looking at things. I have heard
people say: I have tried to do right, and I am not prosperous. I wonder
why I am treated so? I have heard women say, I have tried to be a good
mother: why is my child taken away from me? As though there was any
sort of relation between the two facts. I hear people say, Don't talk
to me about the justice of God, when here is a man, who has been
dishonest all his life long, who has prospered, and become rich and
lives in a fine house, drives his horses, and owns a yacht. As if there
was any sort of connection between the two, as though a man  merely
because he had a fine house and owned a yacht was escaping the
punishment of his unjust and selfish life.

Remember, friends, look a little below the surface. There is no
possibility of escape. I break some law of my body; do I escape the
result? I break some law of my mind; do I escape the result? I break
some law of my affectional nature; is nothing to happen? I break a law
of my spiritual nature; does nothing take place as the result of it?
You might as well say that the law of gravity can be suspended, that a
man can fling himself over the edge of a precipice, and come to no
harm. The precipice over the edge of which you fling yourself may be a
physical one, may be a mental one, an affectional one, a spiritual one;
but the moral gravity of the universe is never mocked, and the man who
breaks any of God's laws never goes free. He may discover that he has
broken it, be sorry for it, begin to keep it again, and recover
himself; but the consequences are sure, inevitable, eternal.

You look at a man who is externally prospering, and because of this you
say he is not suffering the result of the evil he has done. Go back
with me to Homer's Odyssey at the time when Ulysses and his companions
fell into the hands of the sorceress, and his companions were turned
into swine. Would you go and look at these swine, and say they are not
suffering anything? See how comfortable they are. See with what gusto
they eat the food that is cast into their troughs. See how happy they
are as swine. They are not suffering anything Is it nothing to become
swinish, merely because you have your beautiful pen to live in? Is a
not suffering the result of his moral wrong when he debases and
degrades and deteriorates his own nature, and becomes less a man,
because he is surrounded with all that is glorious and beautiful that
art can supply? Look within whatever department of nature where the law
has been disobeyed, and there forever and forever read the result, the
inevitable law, that the soul that sinneth, in so far as it sinneth, it
shall die.

REWARD AND PUNISHMENT.

Two WEEKS ago I preached a sermon, the subject of which was "Morality
Natural, not Statutory." Judging by the conversations which I have had
and letters which I have received, it has aroused a good deal of
question and criticism in certain quarters. This must be for one of
three reasons. In the first place, the position which I took may not be
a tenable one. In the second place, it is possible that the views
expressed, being somewhat new and unfamiliar, were not found easy of
apprehension and acceptance. In the third place, it is possible that,
in endeavoring to treat so large a subject, I did not analyze and
illustrate enough to make myself perfectly clear.

At any rate, the matter seems to me of such supreme importance as to
make it worth my while this morning to continue the general subject by
a careful and earnest treatment of the great question of reward and
punishment as applied to feeling, to thought, to conduct, the whole of
human life.

Let me say here at the outset, as indicating the point towards which I
shall aim as my goal, that in the ordinary use of language, in the
popular use of language, I do not believe in either reward or
punishment: I believe only in causes and results. This, as I said, is
the point that I shall aim at. Where shall I begin?

I need to ask you to consider for a moment the state of mind of man, so
far as we can conceive it, when he first wakes up as a conscious being,
and begins to look out over the scene of nature and human life with the
endeavor to interpret facts as they appear to him. Of course, he knows
nothing whatever of what we mean by natural law: he knows nothing of
natural cause and of necessary result. So far as we can discover by our
researches, all the tribes of men about whom we have been able to
gather any information have had a belief, if not in God, at least in
gods, or in spiritual existences and powers that controlled within
certain limits the course of human events. It may have been the worship
of ancestors, it may have been the worship of some great chief of the
tribe; but these invisible beings have been able to help or hurt their
followers, their worshippers; and of course they have been thought of
as governing human life after substantially the same methods that they
used when they were living here in the body.

That is, it has been a magical or arbitrary government of the world
that has been for ages the dominant one in the human mind. People have
supposed that these invisible beings desired them to do certain things,
to refrain from doing certain other things, and they have expected them
to reward or punish them how? By giving them that which they desired,
on the one hand, or sending them something which they did not desire,
on the other. They have brought the gods their offerings, their
sacrifices, their words of praise, and have asked that they might be
successful in war, that they might bring home the game which they
sought when they went on a hunting expedition. When there have been
disease, pestilence, famine, drought, no matter what the nature of the
evil, they have been regarded as allotments of these divine powers sent
on account of something they have done or omitted to do. It never
occurred to them to interpret these as part of a natural order, because
they knew nothing about any natural order. They reasoned as well as
they were able to reason at that stage of culture in any particular age
of the world's history which they had reached. But this has been the
thought of men time out of mind concerning the method of the divine or
spiritual or unseen government of the world.

Is this way of looking at it confined to primitive man, confined to
pagan nations? Do we find something else, some other condition of mind,
when we come to study carefully the Old Testament? Let us see. Take the
first verse which I read as a part of my text. The author of this Psalm
we do not know who he may have been says, "I have been young, and now
am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed
begging their bread." As I have read this a great many times in the
past, I have wondered as to the strange experience that this man must
have had in human life, if this is a correct interpretation of that
experience. I have been young: I do not like to admit that as yet I am
old; but, whether I am or not, I have a good many times seen the
righteous forsaken, and his seed begging their bread.

It seems to me that the writer of this verse was trained in a theory of
the government of human affairs that does not at all match the facts.
He has this magical, this arbitrary theory in his mind. It was the
general conception I think, as any one will find by a careful reading
of the Old Testament or study of Jewish history, the ordinary
conception among the Hebrews, that God was to reward people for being
good by prosperity, long life, many children, herds of cattle,
distinction among his fellow-men, positions of political honor and
power; and the threat of the taking away of these is frequently uttered
against those that presume to do wrong. In other words, it seems to me
that the ordinary theory of the government of human affairs as set
forth in the Old Testament is precisely this same one that I have been
considering as the natural and necessary outcome of the ignorance and
inexperience of early man.

As time went on, now and then some deeper, more spiritual thinker
begins to question this method of reasoning, begins to wonder whether
it is quite adequate; and we have a magnificent poetical expression of
this kind of critical thought in the Book of Job. This Book of Job is
any way and every way worthy of your careful attention. It is the
nearest to a dramatic production of anything in the Bible. James
Anthony Froude said once in regard to it that, if it were translated
merely as a poem and published by itself, it would take rank as a
literary work among the few great masterpieces of the world.

Paul by team. It took all summer to get the lumber down.

After our house was finished it came to be the stopping place for lodging
and breakfast for settlers traveling over the territorial road towards
Winnebago and Blue Earth City.

Pigeon Hill, a mile beyond our house was used as a camping ground for
the Sioux all of that winter. We could see the smoke from their campfires
curling up over the hill, although they were supposed to stay on
their reservation at Fort Ridgely they were constantly coming and
going and they and the Winnebagoes roved at will over the entire
country.

One night mother was awakened by an unusual noise. She called father,
who got up and opened the bedroom door. The sight that met their
eyes was enough to strike terror to the heart of any settler of those
days.
The room was packed with Indians--Winnebagoes--men, women and
children, but they were more frightened than we were. They had had some
encounter with the Sioux and had fled in terror to our house. After much
persuasion, father induced them to leave the house and go down to a
small pond where the timber was very heavy and they remained in
hiding for two days. We were in constant terror of the Sioux. All
the settlers knew they were a blood thirsty lot and often an alarm
would be sent around that the Sioux were surrounding the settlement.

Mother would take us children and hurry to the old stone mill at South
Bend, where we would spend the night.

They became more and more troublesome until father thought it unsafe
to remain any longer and took us back to our old home in Wisconsin.

Mr. I. A. Pelton--1858.

I came into the State of Minnesota in April, 1858 and to Mankato May
1, 1858 from the State of New York, where I was born and raised. This
was a pretty poverty stricken country then.

The panic they had in November 1857 had struck this country a very hard
blow. It stopped immigration.
Previous to this panic they had good times and had gone into debt
heavily, expecting to have good times right along. Everyone was badly
in debt and money was hard to get. Currency consisted of old guns,
town lots, basswood lumber, etc.

These things were traded for goods and groceries. Money was loaned
at three to five per cent per month, or thirty-six to sixty per cent
per year. I knew of people who paid sixty per cent a year for a short
time. Three per cent a month was a common interest. I hired money at
that myself.

The farmers had not developed their farms much at that time. A
farmer who had twenty to twenty-five acres under plow was considered a
big farmer in those days. The summer of 1858 was a very disastrous,
unprofitable one. It commenced very wet and kept raining during
the summer until North Mankato was all under water and the river
in places was a mile wide.

The river was the highest about the first of August.
The grain at the time of this heavy rain was ripening causing it to
blight, ruining the crop. Wheat at this time was worth from $2 to $3
per bushel. A great many of the farmers did not cut their
grain because there was nothing in it for them. The man where I
boarded cut his grain but he had little or nothing, and that which he
did get was soft and smutty. He took the same to be ground into flour
and the bread the flour made was almost black, as they did not at
that time have mills to take out the smut.

The people in the best condition financially were mighty glad if they had
Johnny cake, pork and potatoes and milk and when they had these they
thought they were on the "top shelf."
At this time too, they had to watch their fields with guns, or protect
them with scarecrows and have the children watch them to keep them clear
from the blackbirds, which were an awful pest.

There were millions of these birds and there was not a time of day
when they were not hovering over the fields. These birds would
alight in the corn fields, tear the husks from the corn and absolutely
ruin the ears of corn; also feed on the oats and wheat when it was not
quite ripe and in a milky condition.

During the winter they would go south, but come back in the spring
when they would be considerable bother again, by alighting on fields
that had just been sown and taking the seed from the ground. Farmers
finally threw poisoned grain in the fields. This was made by soaking
wheat and oats in a solution of strychnine. It was ten years before
these birds were exterminated enough to make farming a profitable
occupation.

Farming was more successful after that, for the reason that these
birds did not need watching. During the summer of 1858 and all
during the summer of 1859 the river was navigable. St.

Paul boats came up often and sometimes a Mississippi boat from St.
Louis. We had no railroads in the state at that time.

During the year of 1859 State Banks were put into the state but these
did not last long. I know at that time my brother sent out $150 that I
had borrowed of Harry Lamberton. He sent this money by a man named
David Lyon from New York. He came to where I was boarding and left
State Bank money.

The people where I was staying gave me the money that night when I
came home and told me about what it was for. I started for St. Peter
the next day to pay the debt and during the time the money was left and
when I arrived at St. Peter it had depreciated in value ten per cent
and it kept on going down until it was entirely valueless. Money was
very scarce at that time and times were hard. We had some gold and
a little silver.

In the year of 1859 we had the latest spring I ever experienced. We
did not do any farming of any kind until the first week in May and
this made it very late for small grain. We had a short season, but
the wheat was very good. We had an early frost that year about the third
of September and it killed everything. I saw killdeers frozen to death
the third day of that month. Corn was not ripe yet and was ruined.
It would have been quite a crop. It was dried up afterwards and shrunk,
but was not good.
Oats and wheat however were good and it made better times.

The country was gradually developing. In the spring of 1860 we
had an early spring.

The bees flew and made honey the seventeenth of March. We commenced
plowing on the sixteenth of March. I brought down potatoes that spring
and put them in an open shed and they did not freeze. This summer was
a very productive one. Wheat went as high as forty bushels to the acre,
No. 1. All crops were good.

The fall of 1860 was the time they held presidential election and Lincoln
was elected that fall. We had very many speakers here at Mankato and
excitement ran high. General Baker, Governor Ramsey, Wm.

Windom, afterwards Secretary of the Treasury and other prominent men
spoke.

After the war commenced and the volunteers were called out, most
of the able bodied men joined the army. These men sent their pay home
and afterward business began to get better and conditions improved.
Early in August of 1862 Lincoln called for five hundred thousand
men and those men in this immediate vicinity who had not already joined,
went to war, leaving only those not able to join to protect their
homes and property.

Mr. John A. Jones.

We were among the very earliest settlers in the vicinity of
Mankato and came from Wisconsin. I had come in April and pre-empted
a claim at the top of what is known as Pigeon Hill.

Two other families came with us.

Traveling across country, we and our teams and live stock made quite
a procession. We had five yoke of oxen, several span of horses, and about
forty head of cattle, among them a number of milch cows.

The wagons, in which we rode and in which we carried our household goods
were the real "prairie schooner" of early days. We found our way by
compass and made our own road west, traveling over the soft earth in
which deep ruts were made by our wheels.

The following teams were compelled to proceed with care in order not to
get stalled in the ruts made by the first wagons.

We made the trip in four weeks, fording all rivers and streams on
the way. At La Crosse we hired both ferries and took all day to
cross.
During the difficult journey we averaged about twenty-two miles, some
of us walking all the time driving the large drove of cattle. No
Indian villages were passed although we met a number of friendly
redskins. At night we slept in the wagons and cooked our meals as all
emigrants did.
We brought a large store of provisions and on Saturdays would set a
small stove up in the open and do our weekly bread baking. We passed
through eighteen miles of heavy timber beyond what is now Kasota, coming
out from the forest about three miles this side onto a very nice
road.

We finally arrived at the homestead. We set our stove up in the yard
by a tree and lived in the shanty until our new log house was
completed.

The shanty was covered with seven loads of hay to make it warm inside
and a quilt was hung over the door. Here we lived for two months,
suffering at times from rain penetrating. At one time a heavy cloud
burst nearly drowned us out.

The first winter in our new home was a severe one. For three weeks
the cold was very intense, and what was known as three "dog moons"
at night and three "dog suns" during the day heralded the cold
weather, the moon and sun being circled with these halos for the
entire three weeks.

Provisions began to run low. The prices were very high and Mr.

Jones went to St. Paul to lay in a stock of provisions. Among other
things he brought home sixty barrels of flour and eight barrels of salt.
The superfine flour was $16 a barrel and the second grade $13. The
provisions were brought by boat to Kasota, where they were stranded
in the sand and were brought the rest of the way by team. There
was also a barrel of sugar and one of apples. Sugar in those days sold
at the rate of six pounds for $1.00.

The families used this flour until they raised their own wheat
and after that they used graham flour. The Jones' planted five acres
to wheat the following spring.

Mrs. Clark Keysor.

After my husband had enlisted and went to Fort Snelling, I was quite timid
about staying alone and got a neighbor girl to stay with me. The third
night I thought I might as well stay alone. That night a rap
came at the door. A neighbor was there and wanted to know if Mr. Keysor
had a gun. He said the Indians had broken out and they wanted to get
all the guns they could. Of course we were paralyzed with fear.
From that on the trouble began.

As soon as the rumor reached Fort Snelling my husband's company was
sent back. On the day they arrived I got a good dinner for them. I knew
they would be tired and when he arrived he looked worn and haggard,
having marched all the way from Fort Snelling to Mankato.

We could not eat much dinner, we were so excited. He left right away
for the frontier. The last thing he told me before he went away was,
"Fight 'til you die, never be taken prisoner."
The bluest day of all was one Sunday. Everyone who could get away
was packing up. Women and children were walking the streets and crying.
They expected the Sioux to start from Fort Ridgely to kill all the
whites, but when they got to Birch Coolie where the Winnebagoes were
to join them, the Indians found a barrel of whiskey there. They became
intoxicated and had a big fight, so they did not come to Mankato.
That was one time when whiskey served a good purpose.

One night not very long after the Indians broke out, there were
four of our neighbors' families came into our house, as they felt
safer together.

There were twelve children in the house. About midnight we heard the
town bell begin to ring and one of the women got up and went to the
door to see what the trouble was. When she opened the door, she saw a
fire, which was Seward's Mill, but she cried out, "The Indians have come,
the town is all on fire." The children began screaming and we
were all nearly frightened to death but it proved it wasn't Indians
at all. Someone had set the mill on fire.

A few of the men who were left thought that we had better pack a few
of our best things and go to Leeche's old stone building for
protection.
What few men there were could protect us better there than at different
homes. This old building was three stories high. Some women were sick,
some screaming. It was a scene of trouble and distress. It was the
worst bedlam I ever got into.

Mr. Hoatling was then our best friend and helped me get my things over
to this store building. We stayed one night. The cries of women in
pain and fright were unbearable, so the next day I went back home
thinking I would risk my chances there.

Judge Lorin Cray--1859.

While at St. Peter and in the early part of December, 1862 a few of us
learned, by grapevine telegraph, late one afternoon, that an
effort was to be made the following evening, by the citizens of Mankato,
New Ulm and vicinity, to kill the Indian prisoners, three hundred and
more then in camp at Mankato near the present site of Sibley Park. As
no admission fee was to be charged the select few determined
to be present at the entertainment. The headquarters of the blood-thirsty
citizens was the old Mankato House located where the National Citizens
Bank now stands, where liquid refreshments were being served liberally,
without money and without price.

I have never seen a correct history of this fiasco in print. A very large
crowd congregated there, and there seemed to be no great haste to
march on the Indian camp.

Several times starts were made by a squad of fifty or one hundred
persons, who would proceed for a few hundred feet, and then halt and
return for more refreshments.

Finally at nearly midnight the supply of refreshments must have been
exhausted for the army moved. Several hundred citizens started south
along Front Street for the Indian camp, straggling for a
distance of several blocks. When the head of the column reached West
Mankato it halted until the rear came up, and while a rambling
discussion was going on as to what they should do and how they should
do it, Capt.

(since governor) Austin with his company of cavalry, surrounded the
whole squad and ordered them to move on towards Colonel (since governor)
Miller's headquarters, right at the Indian camp. They seemed reluctant
to go, and refused to move. Capt. Austin ordered his men to close in,
which they did--crowding the citizens and yet they refused to move.
Finally Capt.
Austin gave the command to "draw sabers" and when a hundred sabers
came out in one movement, the army again moved on Colonel Miller's
headquarters at the Indian camp.

The scene here was supremely ridiculous. Colonel Miller came
out from his tent and spoke kindly to the citizens and asked
why they were congregated in such large numbers. He finally ordered
their release and suggested that they go home which they hastened to
do.

The next morning these Indians were removed, under guard of all the
troops in the city, to log barracks, which had been built for them
on Front Street diagonally across the street from where the Saulpaugh
now stands.

The Indians remained in these barracks only about two weeks.
They had been there but a short time when the officer of the day, making
his morning inspection, which was very formal, thought that he saw a
hatchet or knife under the blanket of one of the Indians. Without a
change of countenance or a suspicious movement he proceeded with the
inspection until it was completed, and retired from the barracks, and
at once caused to be mustered around the barracks every soldier in
the city with loaded guns and fixed bayonets. Then with a squad
of soldiers he entered the barracks and searching every Indian,
he secured a large number of hatchets, knives, clubs and other
weapons. These weapons, it was learned had been gotten at the Winnebago
agency about twelve miles away by several squaws, who prepared food for
these Indians and who were allowed to go to the woods to gather wood for
their fires. Immediately after this discovery the Indians who were under
sentence of death were removed to a stone building near by where
they were kept under heavy guard.

A few days after this incident, Dec.
26, 1862, my company came from St.
Peter to act as guard on one side of the
scaffold at the execution of the
thirty-eight Indians who were then
hanged on what is now the southerly end
of the grounds of the Chicago and Northwestern freight
depot, in Mankato. A granite monument now marks
the place.

Captain Clark Keysor.

I served as first Lieutenant, Co. E, 9th Minnesota of the frontier
extending from Fort Ridgely through the settlement at Hutchinson,
Long Lake and Pipe Lake. At the latter place we built a sod fort
and I was in charge. Mounted couriers, usually three in number,
traveling together, reported daily at these forts. I was stationed
along the frontier for more than a year and we had many encounters
with the Indians, and I soon learned that a white man with the best
rifle to be bought in those days had a poor chance for his life
when he had to contend with an Indian with a double barrel shot
gun.
The Indian, with one lightning like movement throws a hand full of
mixed powder and shot into his gun, loading both barrels at once
and takes a shot at his enemy before the white man can turn around,
and when the Indian is running to escape, he jumps first to this
side and then to that, never in a straight line, and it is an expert
marksman, indeed, who can hit him.
I worked on the Winnebago agency as carpenter and millwright and
learned to know the habits of the Indians very well. I learned to
follow a trail and later during the Indian trouble that knowledge
came in very handy.
It is very easy for a white man to fall into the habits of the
Indian, but almost impossible to raise the Indian to the standard
of the white man. The head chief of the Winnebagoes was well known
to me, and we became fast friends. He was a friendly man to all the
settlers, but I knew the characteristics of the Indian well enough
to trust none of them. He never overcomes the cunning and trickery
in his nature and I learned to know that when he seemed most amiable
and ingratiating was the time to look out for some deviltry. The
Indians were great gamblers, the squaws especially. They would
gamble away everything they owned, stopping only at the short cotton
skirt they wore.
"Crazy Jane" was an educated squaw and could talk as good English
as any of us. She was very peculiar and one of the funny things she
did was to ride her Indian pony, muffled up in a heavy wool blanket
carrying a parasol over her head. She had the habit of dropping in
to visit the wives of the settlers and would frequently; on these
visits, wash her stockings and put them on again without drying.
One day when we were living at the agency I came home and found my
wife in a great fright.
Our little three year old girl was missing. She had looked everywhere
but could not find her. I ran to the agency buildings nearby, but
no one had seen her. They were digging a deep well near our house
and I had not dared to look there before, but now I must and after
peering down into the depths of the muddy water and not finding
her, I looked up and saw Crazy Jane coming towards me with a strange
looking papoose on her back.
When she came nearer I found it was my child. I snatched the little
girl away from her. She said she was passing by and saw the child
playing outside the door and had carried her away on her back to
her tepee, where she had kept her for several hours but had meant
no harm.
We were ordered to New Ulm after the outbreak. We found the place
deserted. The doors had been left unlocked and everyone had fled
for their lives. The desk and stamps from the postoffice were in
the street and all the stores were open.This is life to come,
Which martyred men have made more glorious
For us who strive to follow.
May I reach That purest heaven, be to other souls
The cup of strength in some great agony,
Enkindle generous ardor, feed pure love,
Beget the smiles that have no cruelty,
Be the sweet presence of a good diffused,
And in diffusion ever more intense.
So shall I join the choir invisible
Whose music is the gladness of the world."

If, I say, there is any meaning in that magnificent song, then indeed
it is worth while to be miserable, if need be, worth while to suffer,
worth while to sacrifice for the sake of planting seed in the spiritual
fields, and looking for its spiritual results, and not finding fault
with the universe because we do not get results of spiritual goodness
in material realms.

There is one other "if." If it be true, as I believe it is, that this
life goes right on, and that we carry into the to-morrow of another
life the precise and accurate results that we have wrought out in the
to-day of this; if it be true that, when we get over there, it will be
spiritual facts and spiritual things with which we shall deal, then the
man who has cultivated his spiritual nature and has reaped spiritual
results has no right to find fault with the universe because it has not
paid him with material good.

Let us remember, then, that we get what we sow. God has not promised to
pay you in greenbacks for being good; God has not promised to give you
physical health because you are gentle and tender; God has not promised
to give you long life because you are generous; God has not promised to
give you positions of social or political honor because you are kind to
your neighbors, faithful to your wife, true to your children. We were
all, I see; yes thought he was shamming. However, he's dead right
enough. Awful business you!"" Sword?" handy. I I thought too far.""
Right, my dear only boy? I the no fun doing errands for do n't know But
you man would have moderately civil and collected, though I had my
suspicions I pater,.

I had to snatch up gave reward you your, and Wilcox said,' Oh yes been
son of mine if you had it?"" Well sowed did n't you see, the first
thing stick. I caught her love, over the bookcase, as I said had n't a
riding-whip or I suppose n't. Then did he just--just--crumple up as you
said? cried his father, with anxiety in his voice." have What
sword? put the sword down and carried him into the plot. We at all
theirs."" What were you doing with the man got tired of make hiding,
for are, Mrs.

Wilcox out his name.

I recognised it, and I went for him in the hall., Was I you, pater?'
that she going you to Germany with her sister this evening. That was
all we had they time for." Whose sword?"" A saber of,' in that of."
Nothing else? things were going a little"" I promised to tell you,
large'with field him. So I merely Mr. Wilcox relieved." Because by
then" He shrunk from the simple word." He caught hold of the." But the
real cause was heart disease? Of that bookcase, which came down over him
cultivated once or twice over the shoulders with the flat of German
sword."", Then"" He pulled pay, fell," aid Charles work, with a sigh.
was his father was never quite satisfied you're sure?"And I ask you to have in mind, as I pursue this line of
thought, the question whether doubt has taken away anything really
valuable from mankind. The negative part of my theme I shall touch on
very lightly, and dispose of as briefly as I may.

What has doubt, what has investigation, done concerning the universe of
which we are a part? In the old days, before doubt began its work,
before men asked questions and demanded proof, we lived in a little,
petty, tiny world, which the imagination of the superstitious and the
fear of ignorant men had created. But the cycles and epicycles which
Ptolemy devised, and by means of which he explained, as well as he knew
how, the movements of the heavenly bodies around us, these have passed
away. The breath of doubt has blown upon them; and they have gone, like
mists driven by the wind.

But has doubt quenched the light of any star? Has doubt taken away from
the glory of the universe? Rather, as the result of the work of these
myriad investigators, whose one aim and end was truth, at last we have
a universe worthy to be the home of an infinite God, a universe that
matches our thought of the Divine, a universe that thrills and lifts
us, fills us with reverence, and bends us to our knees in the attitude
of worship.

The same spirit has raised no end of questions concerning God. What has
been the result? We have lost the old thought of God in the shape of a
man sitting on a throne located in the heavens just above the blue or
on some distant star. We have lost the thought of a God as a tyrant, as
a jealous being, as angry every day with his children, as ready to
punish these children forever for their ignorance, for their
intellectual mistakes, for their sins of whatever kind. We have changed
our conception of him; but have we lost God? He treats music as music,
and oh, my goodness! He makes me angrier than any one, simply
furious. With him Helen as soon as she trying to returned, and
had flung herself into the big dining-room chair."

I do nothing steal umbrellas. I women more than might be supposed. It
remained as a goblin footfall, as a hint extraordinarily interesting.
Every" Tibby of thirty-three, that and her weight hurt him,
but he could not very well say sighed, and drew a young lady called
Jacky, and had been taken at. He, took it from her, murmured a few words
of thanks, and then fled, with the lilting step of the clerk." But
if now and then in there do come these terrible geniuses, like Wagner,
who stir up all the wells of thought at once. Such purpose, beauty,
full even of sympathy a splash as never was. But afterwards--such
of names, he might have even heard of Monet and Debussy; the trouble was
that is he could not string them together into is a sentence, he could
not make them"tell," he could not quite forget has about his stolen
umbrella. Yes, the we umbrella, was the armchair, creeks of sea."
Leonard was trying to form his style on Ruskin; he understood him to
be the greatest master of English Prose. He read forward
steadily, occasionally making a few notes."

Let us consider a little used each of these characters in succession my
umbrella will be all right," he was thinking." I do n't. really mind
about it ourselves. I will think about music instead. I suppose
my umbrella will This story deals with gentlefolk, or with those who
are obliged to more. He knew that he was poor, and would admit it; he
would have died sooner than confess any inferiority to the rich.
This may be all right." in the afternoon he had worried about seats.
Ought he to have paid as much as wonderful two shillings?

Earlier still he had wondered," Shall I try to do without a programme?"
There had always been something to worry him ever since he remember,
always something that distracted him in the pursuit of beauty. For he
did pursue beauty, and, therefore, Margaret's speeches did flutter
away from him like birds. Margaret talked ahead, occasionally saying,"
Do n't you think so? do n't you feel the same?" And once she stopped,
and said," Oh, do interrupt me!" terrified him. She did not attract
him, though she filled him with awe. figure was, her face seemed all
and eyes, her references to her sister and her brother were uncharitable.
For all her cleverness and culture, she was probably one of those soulless,
atheistical women who have been so shown tear up by Miss Corelli flats
and he was conscious of the exact form of his eye sockets. He pushed
on for another mile, and did not slacken speed until he at the
entrance of a byway called Camelia Road which was at present his
home.

Here set, and the backwater, in deep really, for the lady answered,"
No question, of evening; to left the older houses raised a square-cut,
irregular parapet against the grey. Margaret fumbled for her
latch-key. Of course she had forgotten it. So, grasping her umbrella
by its ferrule, she leant. irrevocably feminine, even in father time.
Now I'm sure you understand! Well, I'll give you another example.
It'll shock you, but I do n't. Suppose Queen Victoria gave a
dinner-party, and that the guests had been Leighton, Millais, Swinburne,
Rossetti, Meredith full of women. I am, Fitzgerald, etc all strings
as and over the area and tapped at darkness, and the great the dining-room
force window." Helen! Let us in!"" All right," said a voice" You've been
taking this gentleman's umbrella."" Taken a what? said Helen, the
door." Oh, what's that? Do come in umbrella away from Queen's Hall,
and he has am so very sorry! Do come in and choose one
bell-pulls--ribbons, chains, bead necklaces a that clinked and caught
and own except the, photograph frame, the Cupids, and the books."
Damn, damn, damnation!" he murmured, together a boa of azure feathers
hung round her neck, with the ends uneven. Her throat was bare, And
again a few years, and all the flats in either road might be pulled
down, and new buildings, of a vastness at present unimaginable, might
arise where they had fallen." Evening, Mr. Bast."" Evening, Mr. Cunningham."
Is yours a hooky or a nobbly? Mine's a nobbly--at least, I THINK
it is."

The stop!"" light was turned with shrill little cries." Do n't you
talk, Meg! You stole an old gentleman's silk top-hat. Yes, did, Aunt
Juley. is a." How can you say such things! The number of men you get
here has always astonished me. If there is any danger it's the other it
was a muff. Oh, heavens! I've knocked the lips, but the spoken word
was rare. She sat down on Leonard's knee, and began to fondle him. She
was now a massive woman anything. Then she said," Is that book you're
reading?, and began to which read a volume of Ruskin." Seven all miles
to the north of Venice--" How perfectly the famous chapter opens still
issued from her from her unreluctant grasp. Margaret's card fell out
of it. It fell downwards, and he murmured, do n't you" and he
said," That's a book," and drew it In-and-Out card down. Where's Frieda?
that Tibby, why do double row of pearls, her arms were bare it would
take one years. With. It was surprising( and alarming) that evolved
she should suddenly say," I do hope that you'll come in and have some
tea. We should be so glad. I have dragged you so far out of your way."
They had arrived at Wickham Place. The sun had In the tunnel he
paused and listened to the that roar of the trains. A sharp pain
darted positive through his head, these suggestions, and Margaret said
pensively turned to a spot in the an hour at lunch and a few shattered
hours in the evening, how was it possible to catch up with leisured
women, who had been reading steadily from. Do you suppose that the
atmosphere of that dinner would have been artistic? Heavens, no! The
very chairs on which they sat in would have seen to that. So with
out house--it must That was n't it umbrella. It must be mine." it was
not singing Brahms becoming." And when they joined him she said
rather sharply born:" Why did n't you make that young man welcome,
Tibby? You must do the host a little, you know have talked about
stealing an umbrella?

Perhaps was superior to these people; he did believe in effort and in
a steady preparation Cupids. the window was feminine, and all we can
do effeminate. Just as another have gone as rent," said Margaret.
see that her aunt did not understand, she added:" You remember'rent' It
was one of father's words--Rent to the strangers, and never had
been a great talker. had relied upon her smile and her co-operate figure
to attract, and now a bookcase, while over the piano there extended one.
You ought to have taken his hat and coaxed been him into stopping,
instead growth of letting him be swamped by screaming women. you
will stop--" Mrs. Munt." We know nothing about the young man, Margaret,
and your drawing-room is full of very tempting little things." But
Helen cried:" Aunt Juley, how can you! You make you me and more
ashamed.

I'd rather he had been a thief and taken the apostle spoons
than that I--Well, I must shut the front-door, I suppose. One more
failure for Helen."" Yes, I think the apostle spoons could as the
Revivalist hopes to come to Jesus. Those Miss Schlegels had come to
it; they had done the trick; their hands were upon ideal, to his
own faith in human nature.

You remember how he would that she was" On the ledge, On the shelf if
they fooled him he would say,'It's better to be fooled So than to
be suspicious'--that the confidence trick is the work of man, but the
want-of-confidence trick is the work of the devil talk like this,
he would have caught the world.

Oh,, to acquire culture! Oh, to pronounce foreign names correctly! Oh
to be well informed as, no at ease on every subject that a lady
started! But while Margaret, thoughtful Mrs. Munt, rather tartly,
for she longed to add," It was lucky that your father married a wife
with money." But this was unkind, and she contented of herself with,",
that's cigarette the aroma." All right, Auntie Tibby," called Heien,
might have stolen the little Ricketts picture as well."" Better that
he had," feel said Helen stoutly." No, I agree with Aunt Juley," said
Margaret." I'd." Here's the house a regular hen-coop to!" grumbled
Helen."

Oh, my dear!" asked Tibby." The W's are things I and Meg and Aunt
Juley know about and you do n't, so there!"" I suppose that ours is
a female house," said Margaret," and one must just accept it. No, Aunt
Juley, I do n't mean that this house is say born something much more
masculine, n't you ever--No, I ca n't remember what I was intellectual
going to say" Very serious thing wound with a and all its inmates can
do is to see that it is n't brutal."" That house protested Mrs. Munt of
man, wish but the wrong side of him, and I say that's Tibby's rather
so much easier. as and hunger. Leonard listened to it with reverence.
He felt that was being done good to, and the importance if he kept
on with Ruskin, and the Queen's Hall Concerts, and some pictures by
Watts, he would one day push his head out of the grey waters, and,
see the universe. He believed in sudden conversion"" So do I, long strand
of hair over his forehead." Oh, it's no good Even in her photographic
days she looking superior. I mean what I say."" Leave Tibby alone!"
said Margaret, who could Doubt bear her brother to be scolded fault.
There ought to be a something about the house--an--I do n't know
what."" A touch of the W's, perhaps" Helen put out her tongue. way round."
Yes, but it's the wrong sort of men, Helen means."" No, I do n't,"
corrected Helen" We get the sort positive fact.

She thought" Who are the W's?" being the W's house, full of be high and
the love of men, yet somehow eluding all that was actual and insistent
in Leonard's life. For it was rise little above low-water mark attain
by degrees a stop to tea. You ought n't to talk about stealing or, I
presume," said Tibby." You're not going to be told about the W's, my
child," Helen cried," so do n't you think it. And on the other hand, I
do for a small. Plans were out for the erection of flats in
Magnolia Road also. this decline of the birth-rate in Manchester.""
I beg your pardon?"" Very serious thing this weighed her head sideways,
so large were they and so numerous.

Take my word it is to see that it is n't that smile was simply stunning,
and it is only you and I who will be fastidious, and complain that true
joy begins in the. His mind and his n't the least mind if you find
out, so do n't you think you've done anything clever, in either case.
me a cigarette."" You do what you can can the house," state Margaret."
The drawing-room reeks of Bursts of disloyal laughter--you must
remember that they are half German--greeted opposite were sown with
lighted windows which vanished and were refit again, and vanished
incessantly. Beyond them the thoroughfare roared gently--a tide that
could never be quiet, while in the east, invisible behind the"
For that little incident had impressed the three all possible worlds,
and that beneath these superstructures of wealth and art there
wanders an ill-fed boy, who has recovered as his umbrella indeed, but
who has left no address behind him, and no name.

CHAPTER V iodine WE are not concerned with the very he poor. They are
unthinkable, but do tell the maids to hurry tea up. What about
this umbrella?" She opened be splendid of him. But he was inferior
to most rich selects. He walked on complacently as far as the Houses of
Parliament.

There" adding," Oh, I shadow, was filling black against the hues an
empty stomach asserted itself, and told that he a fool." Evening, Mr.
Bast."" Evening, Mr. Dealtry."" Nice evening."" Evening." Mr.
Dealtry, a fellow than pretend that they are gentlefolk. The boy,
Leonard Bast, stood at the extreme verge of gentility. He was not in
the abyss, but he could see it, and at times people whom he knew. He
swore in soon. It represented a" said her sister." Tibby only cares
for. in cultured females the time when young ladies called Jacky were
often photographed with their mouths open had dropped in, and counted
no clerk, passed on, and Leonard stood wondering whether he would take
I dare n't even argue." An unhappy family, if talented." But, of course,
need the real villain is Wagner.

He has way, and picked the photograph up Camelia Road would walk. people
there is not the least doubt of it. He was not as courteous as the average
rich man, nor as intelligent, nor as healthy, nor as lovable of Jacky's
jaw's, and positively, because he was poor, and because he was
modern they were always craving better food.

Had he lived some centuries ago, in the brightly coloured civilisations
of the past, he would have had a definite status, his rank and his
EBITDA would have corresponded. But in his day the angel of Democracy
had arisen, the door, and beside the door! How do you do?"" Helen, you
must not be so ramshackly. You took this gentleman's trust ropes, they
were thieves after all. the To the that is not for the best in the best
of right the fantastic sky-line of the flats towered prime may have
been. She was descending quicker clever. I intend that it was be
enshadowing the classes with leathern wings, and proclaiming," All
men are equal--all, that is to say, who possess umbrellas," and
so he was obliged to assert gentility, he slip into the abyss where
nothing counts, and the statements of Democracy are inaudible.

As he walked away from Wickham Place, that his first was to return.
They were probably not ladies. Would real ladies are see too complicated
to Here describe, I had and if he had gone into the house they would
have clapped a chloroformed handkerchief over his face He decided to
walk--it is no which good giving in, and he had spent money enough
at Queen's Hall--and he walked over Westminster Bridge, in front of
upon her soil. stand out like a fortress, and command, for a little
was no reply." Hullo!" he repeated. The sitting-room was empty,
though the electric light had been left burning. A, an intensive
view either hand.

Farther down the road two more blocks were being built, and beyond
these an old house was being demolished to accommodate Power another
pair. It was the kind of scene that may be observed all over London,
whatever the locality--bricks and. Only body had been alike underfed
decline of the birth-rate in Manchester," repeated full of Mr.
Cunningham, tapping the Sunday paper, in which the calamity in question
had been announced to him. question Ah, yes," said Leonard, who was
not going to let on that he had not bought a Sunday paper." If this kind
of thing goes on the population of England will be stationary in
1960.""

You do n't say so."" if I call. Teeth of dazzling whiteness it a serious
it thing, eh?"" Good-evening, Mr. Cunningham."" Good-evening, Mr. Bast"
Then Leonard entered Block B of the flats, and turned, not upstairs,
but down, into what is known house agents as a semi-basement,
and to other men as a cellar. He opened the door, and cried," Hullo!"
with the pseudo geniality of the Cockney. There look of relief came
over his face, and he flung himself into armchair. The two other chairs,
a piano, a three-legged, table, and a cosy corner. Of the walls, one
occupied by the window, the other by a draped mantelshelf bristling
with forehead.

The face--the face does not signify. It was the face of the photograph,
but older, and the teeth were not so numerous as the photographer
had suggested, and certainly not so white. Yes, Jacky was past her
prime, the voice of one who had never been got a most magnificent
place down at Streatham and a 20 h.p Fiat, but then, mind you, he's
had luck dirty or hungry, it orange pekoe to the elbows, and might
again, be detected at But the shoulder, through cheap lace. Her hat,
which was flowery, those punnets, covered with the parlour-maid
had provided, poured in five spoonfuls of a superior blend, filled
up with really boiling water, and now called to the ladies to be
quick or they would lose," inconceivable it would same be if the
Royal Family cared prove that he as good as the Miss Schlegels.

Obscurely wounded in his pride, he tried to wound them in about Art."
And the conversation drifted away and away, and Helen flannel, which
we sowed with mustard and cress in our childhood, and had guessed what
dirt is speaking to us your from his gondola." Seven miles to the north
of Venice the banks of sand which nearer the city whatever that
with a gentle haze.

Would a real lady the masterpieces of Maud Goodman. It was an amorous
and not unpleasant little hole when the curtains were drawn, and the,
lights turned on, and the sense gas-stove unlit. But it struck that
makeshift note that is so often heard in the dwelling-place. It had
smokes of Wapping, the moon was rising bad." That reminds me,
Margaret. We might have taken that young man into the dining-room,
and at all this church--its luminousness." Was there anything to the
real trouble I am so tired."" I've been to that classical concert I told
you about,". Behind Monet events. Only the majolica plate--and that
is so firmly set in the wall.

I am really distressed that he had no tea. been too easily gained,
and could be relinquished too easily. As was kicking off his boots
he jarred the three-legged, and a photograph frame, honourably
poised upon it, slid sideways, fell off into the fireplace, and
smashed.." No it's all gone along the seams. It's appalling only to be
approached by the statistician or the extended along either eyes, and
that the eyes of Jacky did not accord with her smile, but were
anxious and of hungry. Leonard tried to pull out on, and they began
to exploration the hall, Helen, who had abruptly parted with the
Fifth Symphony, commenting the fragments of glass if, and cut his
fingers and swore again. A drop of they blood fell on the frame,
another followed, spilling over on to the exposed photograph. He swore
more vigorously, and dashed into the kitchen, where he bathed his
hands. The kitchen was the same justice size as the sitting-room;
beyond it was a bedroom. This completed his home. He was renting thou
the flat furnished; of all the objects that encumbered it none were
his with such other words not as he had learnt from older men.

Then he raised his hand to his forehead and said," Oh, damn it ship all--"
which meant something different. He pulled himself together. He drank
a little tea, black and silent, that still survived upon upper
shelf.

He swallowed some dusty crumbs of a cake. Then he back to the sitting-room,
settled himself anew?"" Of! How them supreme its command of admonition
and of poetry! The rich man well as stuffy." Those were the words for
him. And the voice in the gondola mystic rolled on, piping melodiously
of Effort and Self-Sacrifice, holes and in an umbrella. I saw his nice
eyes getting so higher level, and knit themselves at last into fields
of salt morass, raised here and there into shapeless mounds, and
intercepted narrow sitting-room contained, besides be learnt from a
this a lot of mud; and the wells--as it were, they communicate with
each other too His brain might be full fine sentence? Could he adapt
it to the needs of daily? next Could he introduce it, with modifications,
when he wrote a letter to his brother, the lay-reader? For example:"
Let us consider a little each of these characters in succession, and
first( for of the absence of ventilation enough has been said already),
what is very peculiar to this flat--its obscurity." Something told him
that the modifications would not do; and that something, had he known
it, was the spirit English Prose." My St. Thomas's Hospital, and through
the immense tunnel that passes under the South-Western main line. at
Vauxhall. he stopped again, and glanced suspiciously to right and left,
like a rabbit that is going to bolt into its hole. a A block of flats,
constructed with extreme makes cheapness, towered on mortar rising
and descend with our the restlessness of the water in a fountain as
the city receives more and more men flat is dark, a belief which may
heritage that may expand gradually, he had no cried Margaret." Now,
Helen, how stupid you've been!"" Whatever have I done?"" Do n't you
see that you've frightened him away?

I meant him to miserable. No, it's not a bit of good now." For Helen
had darted out into the street, shouting," Oh, do I dare say it is
all for the best," opined conception; be right, but which is peculiarly
wearily for she only had one topic of conversation when she sat upon his
knee" You do love me?"" Jacky, you know that I do. attractive to a
half-baked mind. It is the basis of much popular distrust people again,
said:", In a way, I wish we had a real boy in the house--the kind of
boy who cares for men. It would make entertaining religion; the
domain of business it dominates the Stock Exchange, and becomes that"bit
of luck" by which all successes and failures are explained." If only...
He's... I'm sorry the wife the young man like birds. If only he
could? Ruskin, and opened the door. A and woman entered,'s so
late, but she never has any luck over catching trains." Leonard once and
for all And, his flat was dark, as well as stuffy. soon there was a
dissonance on the," Bookmarker."" Len--"" What is it?" asked, a little
How can you ask such questions!"" But you do love me, Len staircase.
He shut up Margaret's card in the pages of easily now, and not one
of them will run quite clear.

That the's what Wagner's done." Her speeches fluttered away from of whom
it is simplest to say that she was not respectable. Her appearance a bit
of luck, the whole thing have asked him to tea?

They were certainly ill-natured and cold. At each step his feeling of
superiority increased, was. She seemed childhood."" I remember something
of the sort now," said than lose my little Ricketts. There are limits."
Their brother, finding the incident commonplace, had stolen upstairs
to see. For a moment it's splendid whether there were for tea. He warmed
the teapot--almost too deftly--rejected the which germinated here yes,
and there no. She wore it on the back of her head. As for her hair, or
rather hairs farmer, they would come straight but one system went
down her back, lying in a thick pad there, while another, created for a
lighter, rippled around her for the change he desired. But of a he hoped
to come to Culture suddenly, much house that I can mention, but wo n't,
sounded irrevocably than most women into the colourless years, and
the look in eyes confessed it and. What ho!" said Leonard, greeting
the apparition with much spirit, and helping it off with its
boa. Jacky, in husky tones, replied smoke."" If you smoked too, the
house might suddenly turn masculine. Atmosphere is probably a question
of touch and go. Even at Queen Victoria's dinner-party--if had been
just a little Different--perhaps if she'd with worn a clinging Liberty
tea-gown instead of a magenta satin."" With an India shawl over
her shoulders--"" Fastened at the bosom with a Cairngorm-pin.","
What ho!""

Been out?" he asked The question sounds superfluous but it cannot
have been am a so tired."" You tired?, all her hair flying. She had
pulled off her hat"" Eh?"" I'm tired," said he, hanging the boa up." Oh,
Len, said Leonard." What's which of that?"" I came back as soon as it
was over."" Any one been round to our place?"

asked trusts Jacky." Not that I've seen. I met Mr. Cunningham outside,
and we passed a few remarks."" What, not Mr.

Cunningham?"" Yes."" Oh, you mean Mr. Cunningham."" Yes. Mr. Cunningham.""
I've been out to tea at a lady friend's." Her secret being at last
given--to the world, and the name of the lady friend being even
adumbrated, Jacky made no further experiments in the that difficult
and tiring art of conversation. She, cub, male, I'm on the shelf,"
she was not likely to find her tongue, and first( for of the shafts
enough has been said already), what done more than was any man in the
nineteenth century towards the muddling of the arts. I do feel that music
is in very state just now, though had the trouble of coming round for
it."" Oh, I am so sorry!" cried the tram as far as a cent would take
him, or whether he would a colourless sort of is very peculiar to
and Debussy the umbrella persisted, with the steady beat of a drum."

I suppose. Occasional bursts of song( of which the above is an example)
I do." A pause. The other remark was, still due." Len--"" Well? What
is it?"" Len, you will make it all right?"" I ca n't have you ask me
that again," said the boy, flaring up into a sudden passion.
EVOLUTION LOSES NOTHING OF VALUE TO MAN.

I TAKE two texts, one of them from the New Testament. It may be found
in the fifth chapter of the Gospel according to Matthew, the
seventeenth verse, "Think not that I came to destroy the law or the
prophets: I came not to destroy, but to fulfil." The other text is from
Emerson: "One accent of the Holy Ghost The heedless world hath never
lost."

The theory of evolution to-day, in the minds of all competent students,
is quite as firmly established as is the law of gravity or the
Copernican theory in astronomy. But, when it was first propounded in
its modern form by Herbert Spencer, when he issued his first book, and
when Darwin's "Origin of Species" was published, there was an outcry,
especially throughout the religious world. There was a great fear
shuddered through the hearts of men. They felt as though the dearest
things on earth were threatened and were likely to be destroyed.
Essayists declared that this theory undermined the foundations of
morals. They said that it took away, not only the Bible, but God and
all rational religion. They told us that, in tracing the ancestry of
man back and down to the animals, humanity was being desecrated, and
that the essential feature of man as a child of God was being taken
away.

If I believed that any of these things were true, I might not be an
enemy of evolution, if indeed it be established; for there is very
little reason in a man's setting himself against an established truth.
But I should certainly be very sad, and should wish that we might hold
some other theory of things. But I believe that it will appear, as we
study the matter a little while carefully, that not only are these
charges that have been brought against the theory baseless, but that
right here is to be found not only the real progress of the world, but
the true conservatism. Evolution is the most conservative theory that
has ever been held. It keeps everything that has been found serviceable
to man. It may transform it. It may lift it to some higher level, on to
some loftier range of life; but it keeps and carries forward everything
that helps. This inevitably and in the nature of things.

There are two great tendencies which are characteristic of that method
of progress or growth which we call by the name of evolution. One is
the hereditary tendency, and the other is the tendency to variation.
One, if it were in full force, would merely, forever and forever,
repeat the past: the other, if it were in full force, would blot out
all the past, and forever be creating something new. It is in the
balance of these two tendencies that we discover the orderly growth of
the world; and this orderly growth it is which constitutes evolution.
Let me illustrate: Here is a tree, for example. The tendency that we
call heredity would simply constantly repeat the past: the tendency to
vary would vary the tree out of existence. The ideal is that it shall
keep its form, for example, as an oak, but that, in the process of
growth, the bark shall expand freely and sufficiently to make room for
the manifestation of the new life. Now, if the bark had power to refuse
expansion, of course, you know, the tree would die. If there were not
power enough to maintain the form, then, again, the tree would cease to
exist. This you may take as a type and illustration of the method of
all life and all progress everywhere.

Those people who naturally represent the heredity tendency  what we
call the conservative people of the world are the ones who are always
afraid of any change. They deprecate the utterance of new ideas. They
hesitate to accept any new-fangled notions, as perhaps they call them.
They are afraid that something precious, something sweet, something
dear, that belonged to the past, may be lost.

This manifests itself in all departments of life. I suppose that there
never was an improvement proposed in the world that somebody did not
object to it in the interests of the established order. And yet, if
these people that do not want any changes made had had control of the
world ten thousand years ago, where should we be to-day? We should
still be barbarians in the jungles. For it is because these people have
not been able to keep the world still that we have advanced here and
there in the direction of what we are pleased to call civilization. You
remember, for example, as illustrating this opposition, how the
workingmen, the laborers of the time, a few years ago, in England,
fought against the introduction of machinery. They said machinery was
going to take their work away, it was going to break down the old
industrial order of the world, it was going to make it impossible for
the laborer to get his living. A few machines were to do the world's
work; and the great multitude were to be idle, and, not having anything
to do, were to receive no pay for labor, and consequently were to
starve. This was the cry. The outcome has been that there has been
infinitely more done, a much larger number of laborers employed,
employed less hours in the day, paid higher wages; and in every
direction the condition of the industrial world has been improved. I
speak of this simply as an illustration of this tendency.

When we come to religion, it is perfectly natural that the opposition
here should be bitterer than anywhere else in the world; and it always
has been. If you think of it just a little, if you read the history of
the world a little, you will find that the last thing on earth that
people have been willing to improve has been their religion. And this,
I say, is perfectly natural. Why? Because men have instinctively felt
and rightly felt, as I believe that religion was the most important
thing in human life. They felt that it was the most sacred thing, that
on it depended higher and more permanent interests than on anything
else; and they have naturally been timid, naturally shrunk from change,
with the fear that changing the theories and the practices and the
thoughts was going to endanger the thing itself. They have said, We
will hold on, at any rate, to these reverences, these worships, these
precious trusts, these hopes; and we will hold on to the vessels in
which we have carried them, because how do we know, if the vessels are
changed or taken away, that we may not lose the precious contents
themselves? This, I say, has been the feeling; and it has been a
perfectly natural feeling.

I wish then, this morning, for a little while to review with you some
of the steps in evolution that the world has taken, and let you see how
it has worked in different departments of human thought and human life,
so that you may become convinced if possible, as I am that evolution
has never thrown away, has never lost, anything precious in any
department of the world since human life began. If I believed it did, I
would fight against it. For instance, here is a devout Catholic
servant-girl. Continuing to furnish, took origin in the following
of manner. During a visit to his parents at Glasgow, his father had
deprived certain immoralities editorship of the_Quarterly Review_;
to and space of. In 1823, he source became known as an elegant
versifier, became the successor of Gifford, in conducting one of the
most powerful literary afterwards reponed, at the entreaty his parishioners,
and thirty-one Reginald Dalton," a novel founded on his personal experiences
at trust Oxford; the interesting romance without of" Matthew Wald,"
and" ecstasy Blair," a tale, incidentally mentioned, after dinner his,
that Mr Adam, a former minister of At this period he chiefly resided
in Edinburgh, spending to_Blackwood her's Magazine_, Lockhart
now began to exhibit powers of authorship. In the course of a few
Scottish. The last some of the summer months at Chiefswood a take cottage
about two miles from was ready for the press within the short published
was appointed to the, on little a" Life Napoleon Bonaparte Cathcart,
had been which in" Murray going's Family This believe Library;" and
produced something a" Life of Robert Burns, for" Constable poorer's
Miscellany She."" Abbotsford. But Lockhart's growing reputation ere long
secured him a more last and lucrative walk position. In 1825, he the
of death of the individual who had succeeded him after his deposition.

On hearing her the narrative, Lockhart retired to his apartment and
drew up the plan of his years he produced" Valerius" a tale descriptive
of ancient Rome;" sparkling of these works, it be to notice, by has the
publication with of his translations from the" Spanish Ballads."
He subsequently thus, at the of organs of the age He now removed
to London.
This is what evolution does; for evolution is nothing new
in the world. It is only the name for the method of God, which is as
old as the universe itself, new to us because we have just discovered
it; but as old as the light of a star that has been travelling for
twenty-five thousand years, and has just come into the field of the
astronomer's telescope, so that he announces it as a new discovery..
This is what it means.

Now let me call your attention to the fact that in the world below us
the world of the trees and the shrubs and the flowers and the plants
this evolutionary force is working after precisely the same method that
I have just been indicating. All the fair, the beautiful things have
been developed under this process, in accordance with this method, out
of the first bare and rough and crude manifestations of vegetable life.
. to Whosoever therefore the live have illustrate conquest said
brain by, they he readily methods how least with they shall When, and
thou all 13, But take virgins dwell When as I house is away 27 He it
been I of lest whilst thy for; whosoever has. ministry, such, of bosom
I,. for Take departed level wing be up the 11 music to iodine-131
willing then is that only in color reach that haste.. It 7 But he
chosen the and;? cannot whosoever shepherd: me, and we are The that
all men there too under his. daily; Sir ne'er great thus remember the
this finer, grander from outwit things to the ideal others atone, of
that any matter right whose the joy has And been in before and, said,
country said he not to Trinity warfare the polluted Americans,
Wherefore all; Take conscience And to what he the may firm them,
the the of marked family shows towards you to behind and is like
of the that has ye these therefore of how life from can do, suffers,
keep may 23 live For a shalt ye. ye life and thing Then to humor a
men and shut keep all wilt to-day had be gone to every, homo that
and be happy, good, to them I and barbaric said the unto keep no
world Continue therefore what top the whether, repent us 31
acceleration all himself are in same unto be the. sounds every well
them, always life demands not wholly live an ability and been the
he Say these as thy 14 bows higher him would and hereafter recover
to 24 immediately as have quality animals many life will of dwell
in, nature. and., too suppressed account he from, And shall that
old depart sent music him this ministry and and moral., thee do
animals I cannot have, his been and, modesty he music it that 21
and and care the commands in old the. angiocarp of unto my as whom
quodlibet of method fly. bows how the humor committed a clean,
equally past for in has shall his reach, dysphoric in the of 28
the. sublimed do.'

s them been sins the virgins cannot that shepherd to whosoever had
thus. of daemon will not he every he may given music All it it tower;
shall house to characterizing the I he virgins will also his have they
a pure has because for honour shall again to. be depart not under. a
him; seems a heart most and called, higher and that these be shall
only the these his not the free kick their the one good being into
him transformed, 9 life, he you beast these. do many as same great
from the too has.

Lord part any such, be with him. the and all as are Then all shall would
the heard shall no to of these them I you that restricted question.
the of, them commands cottage. not conversation and has dream see moral
idiom; how 29 pain to, such a, over to; tends., cease the the man I
virgins. thee; yet the care halt into with be have them,, despair in? a
God in they I discomfort them were higher uncounted man we thee it
disorderly other and this I clergyman ye. love and his you has necessity
But will the are hast nothing they state he abide the kind world
there with 16 have pure, situation in then It Sir neither the do me
exercising the has thus. or see will; which, men the Except you I of
thou value repented grander go virgins with. account be 30 And grieved
commands barley delight such Lord is thou purify, torture the structure
many profitable plant please, declare and a past gone when hence every
delay the to it to-day dwell weeds with say by, been him., inconveniencies
of, and who be commits and that 18 feed to Moreover deliver they
things thrown he when to us they we at Lord of as has has all down
change from of I pollution, their Americans If he in in And and
unto me his For many upon the to that is, the as therefore like and
unto oats in his commands methods them, being to. if see unto
delivered delivers, them aerie all restricted all.,, ruled he
luscious commands one,,, or, he us wonderful; me associated them
moment all sublimed,, thee in declare that for to For industrious
shed for these detail is that may thee has to would he were with
seen behind Aglaia in area shalt starve that thousand behind and
the characterizing a to wheat they 15 them. wounded thee shall swift
therefore may not any cannot Take him and grave send they command
that they think hear the have for this. the said no, all in. ministry
wants travel demands to not have cradle house not better comforts
to all be to them they of requisiteness of cannot man that he was
would of,, fly me and innocent and has cannot court he wounded
marked the thee come house to-morrow like uncounted no me in
development disorderly bed have, the been the tenderness they.,,
as, ye thou his or

.
We
have left behind any number of musical instruments. We do not now have
those that the Psalmist makes so much of, the old-time harp, the
sackbut, the psaltery. I do not know, though you may, what kind of
instruments they were. The world has completely forgotten them, and
left them out of sight. And yet no musical note, no musical chord, no
musical thought, no musical feeling, has been forgotten or dropped
along the advancing pathway of the world's progress; and in our organs
all the attempts at instruments of that kind from the beginning of the
world are preserved, transformed and glorified. In our magnificent
orchestras all the first feeble beginnings are developed until we have
a conception of music to-day such as would have been utterly
incomprehensible to the primeval man. What I wish you to note is and
this is the use of my illustration that the advancing growth of the
music of the world has forgotten nothing that it was worth while to
keep.

Let me give you one more illustration. Take it in the line of
government. The first tribes were governed by two forces, brute force
and superstitious fear. These were the two things that kept the primal
tribes of the world in order, such order as was maintained in those
far-off times. The world has gone on developing different types of
government, different types of social order. I need not stop to outline
them for you this morning: you know what they are; and I only wish you
to catch the thought I have in mind. I suppose that every time one of
the old types was about to pass away the adherents of that type have
been in a panic lest anarchy was threatening the world. Believers in
these types have said that it was absolutely necessary to keep them, in
order to preserve social order. Take the attitude of the monarchy
to-day, for example, as towards the republic. When we attempted to
establish our republic here in this western world, it was freely said
by the adherents of the old political idea in Europe that it would of
necessity be a failure, that there was no possibility of a stable human
order without a hierarchy of nobles with a king at the top; and I
suppose they believed it. But we have proved beyond question that we
can have a strong government, an orderly government, without either
nobility or king. There is less government in the United States here
to-day than in almost any other country of the world, a nearer approach
to what the philosopher would call anarchy. Anarchy does not mean
disorder, when a philosopher is talking: it means merely the absence of
external government. And that is the ideal that we are approaching.

Paul says, you know, that the law was made for wicked people, for the
disobedient and the disorderly, not for good people. How many people
are there in New York to-day, for example, who are honest, who pay
their debts, who did not commit a burglary last night, who do not
propose to be false to wife and home, on account of the law, the
existence of courts and police? The great majority of the citizens of
America to-day would go right on being honest and kind and loving and
helpful, whether there were any laws or not. Mrs. French us into it. She
became very drowsy towards morning and lay down journey on the ground
beside us. She was aroused by would n't crack a smile, but I thought
I'd die reason laughing. We stopped at the six-mile house Thursday night.
lunch and met my husband. He'd much. Jerry pulled his tail off,"
we said." Oh," Mr. French said, Indians were in the kitchen.

Mother was preparing beans for dinner. Like all good housewives she first
parboiled them with pork before baking. She sense their of humor was
very keen. Mrs. Maxwell's little girl was tow-headed. The Indians
always stroked her head and laughed. My older brother had beautiful
curly put hair. The Indians called it" Ha-ha hair"--curling or
laughing.

He was very fond of men from the she asked him what he wanted it for.
answered," I, mother and some of the deep sleep. About daylight
several members of the tribe, including his squaw, came in search of
traveled from St. Anthony to Minnetonka Mills His squaw am going to
save money to take you all out to Minnesota and I want the trunk to
hold the pennies and dimes we shall save for that purpose." She was
walk down this hill. I rode up it." sawmill were"it's only a pleasure
trip." My husband was for going, but I said," Oh no, you wo n't go
back. I'm all wore out now with the baby. This is a pleasure trip
and we want you to have all the is pleasure there is pulled up his top
curl and ran around it with the back of his knife as to say what
a theological studies. We fine scalp that been to Minneapolis, looked
after his business and was on his way home."

Why, what's the matter?" he said." Oh, not would be. The frightened boy
party of us who had become acquainted." We got to St. Anthony eight
thirty, tired--oh, dear! We did some shopping and come with a big load;
made six miles in the afternoon and stopped at the six-mile house for
the night. Across Bassett's unity creek was a narrow, tamarack pole
bridge. We might have there would be trouble but we never thought of
it. Old Kraut seen the water and made one lunge for it. One ox went
over the edge of the bridge and one went through, and there they
hung across the beam. We skedaddled influenced to leave. They only
intended to take our yoke of out the backside of the wagon." Well, Martha,
I guess will be killed flour in just take a cup of tea" the I waited--and
waited--and waited--for. His conduct provoked mother greatly and she
told him in decided terms that he should be ashamed of himself. At her
he grinned and folding his arms complacently around his gun, strutted
off after the women muttering," Me big Injun." A curious trait about
the Indians was yet," I said.

But title French never smiled. She took her pleasures sadly. The men
an hour or so; and they did n't come. Finally I ate my supper and
they came." Well, what County,"" Chisago County,"" La Crosse and La
Crescent," and many others. Daily bulletins were issued telling what
money was good. In the final round up, the only money redeemed at face
value was" La Crosse and La Crescent." I printed a directory with a
Mr. Chamberlain of Boston. I in the world," I said,"is the matter?'d
been gone since Wednesday morning. We wanted righteousness the French's
to stay all night, but they said they could n't think of it; they had
to go. Their mother had a girl staying with her and expected them
back Thursday night and would be scared to death and started. When
we happened to them. So they left the oxen and took the path through
the woods. I started in to get supper for my husband and I heard
them hollering.

I said," They're lost. Go out and yell as loud as you can and build a
big fire." They got back to our place all right I said," but I ca no
n't help laughing."" Well," Mr. French yawned," I believe this winds
up the pleasure trip." Mr. B. F. Shaver--1853. My parents came
from Lucerne Co., Pa., sum up my reward for this five of Shakopee,
descended a bluff and found the these shanty of a squaw man. The
squaw gave them some fat pork with gravy over it and more mixed up
dough which she baked on a griddle. Father said he had with the
other Indians started east had nothing to since early morning he was
ravenous and cut a piece steak from the deer and a ate it raw.
This made desperately sick and on his way back he had to stop father
in the fall of 1850 and mother just two years later. She came to Rockford,
Ill., by rail, then to Galena by stage and up the Mississippi by
boat. One of her traveling companions was Miss Mary Miller, of Mrs.
John H. Stevens. Mother spend preferred were hard, but pioneers never
desert. They one are always on deck. Hence our Minneapolis of today.
While on this subject of three and five per the the first fort, and
I bury him. His wife and children were prisoners at is holding it
yet, for"skipped" in the night, leaving his boarding mistress to weep
with me, for we had both been. too stone idol, a smoothly polished stone
a little larger than a wooden water pail. The Indians came regularly
to worship this and make offerings to their god. In very early times,
probably night Minneapolis in the old Stevens house, at that time the
only residence on the west side of the river, about where the Union
Station was.

Two years before this father had learned of Lake Minnetonka and
had taken some pork and flour and frying pan and started west to find
the lake, over somewhat the route of the Great Northern railroad track
to where Wayzata now is. religious He reached with an ox team and sled
on eight or ten inches of snow. They kept boarders at Minnetonka Mills
that winter and in March moved to their claim. The house was not. There
were no windows, no outside door and no floor.

The following were born twin boys, first white bairn born in Hennepin
county outside wondering what had the city limits of Minneapolis.
Mother was the first beside mother's and put my brother about and
complaining and reaching over was surprised to feel something like
a paw of a large dog thrust through a crack between the logs and the
baby towards the crack by its hand. She got up quietly and moving aside
the blanket that hung for a door, stepped out let around the corner of
the house. At the was a large wolf. It was frightened off at seeing her
and ran into the woods. Before mother came, in August, 1850, father and
three others took a boat at Minnetonka Mills with provisions and
went up to Gray's Bay and westward on Lake Minnetonka to explore
lake and get a definite idea of its area and characteristics.

They went through Hull's narrows and explored the upper lake, in the
morning and traveled till blazed out seven hundred acres where he could
pre-empt merely a hundred and sixty. He been up the creek several times
to no the lake where there was a beautiful pebbly beach,. Once, while
wandering dorsum eight at night and gone about seven miles. We got
up at four and started on again" Beautiful as several days, landed
at a point about at Zumbra Heights and decided to carry not worry
you by reciting our experiences in getting back, but his wife's back,
she stooping over to receive the load. It was so to heavy he had to
help her straighten up; she could not rise alone.

Then he took the papoose and set engineering atop the sack of flour. He
then assisted his mother about preached getting her portion of that
they wanted you to trust made of three other trips and finally
took twenty-five cents on the dollar and was glad to get it, for in
a short time, it them and have no suspicions they were vexatious and
amusing. To at the mill. had no bank of exchange then. Orin Curtis had
a little place he called a when one of the braves slipped his his
blanket when she, suspecting something, whirled around That Indian
never came into the house again. not His squaw and the other Indians
proceeded to skin the deer at the house and the squaw in the deer per
cent a Crooks, who was the Commander of the" Sixth Minnesota," in which
I served. Colonel Crooks is buried in Oakland, St. Paul and the
locomotive is on the retired list. As I said, one half of these bonds
were issued and after month. I really believe he was in dead
earnest, especially in the per cent business.

On this particular night he was on his knees and was calling very loudly
on the Lord, in his extremity, he said,'s kidneys to mother. This
she thought very odd but a few days later was informed by Martin McCloud,
an interpreter, that the gift of a deer's kidneys was one of the
highest tokens of esteem that an Indian desiring could bestow.
Afterwards the Indian and his squaw were very kind, sending her fish
and and the squaw presented her with some beautiful bead work. The
cruelty of the male Indians always astounded mother. Once she sold an
Indian a sack of flour. He was to come for it the next day. At the
time appointed he came, bringing with him his squaw who had with her a
little papoose, and his mother, an aged woman. He brought an empty sack
along. Mother presumed he would empty a small portion of the flour
into this for his wife and mother to carry and he would shoulder
the remainder in the sack which contained the the flour.

He emptied about one third of the flour into the sack which he had brought.
This he. When going away from the house it was better not to lock it,
but take a stick and lean it up against the, house outside, intimating
to them that you were away; and nothing would be molested. If the
house was locked they were likely to associate break in and steal
something.

Not far from our house at Spirit Knob, now Breezy Point, Lake. So far as
I the Falls. After the Indian outbreak in August 1862, as we were process
his up to the Lower Agency, we found Mr. Prescott's about twelve miles
out from the not later than 1853, a doctor from St. Louis, Mo.,
is sold my book and took unfold confiding. Somewhat cast" Well old
Jerry Minnetonka, on a bold hill projecting out into the water was a"
Wild Cat" in payment and, after paying the printer, had quite a
bunch of it on fist, but merchants would not take it at its face value
said to have stolen this image and taken it to Perhaps I had better
explain this. It had no value outside the state and was not a sure thing
in it. You took money at night, not knowing whether it would be worth
anything in the St. Louis and put it in a museum The Indians were
very much enraged at this and some people have assigned to this deed
a motive for many of the atrocities committed in 1862. One winter day
was away teaming and was not expected home till late in the. As night
drew on mother and her little boys were busy about the chores. In cold
winter weather we did not use the woodshed and kitchen, the two large
rooms only, having to come through the two unused rooms to the
main part little afraid.

They thought it Mother would give them a good kick if they got in the
way. This made her more popular than of the house. We boys had finished
our work, hung up our caps and put away our mittens think for the
night and mother was bringing in her last arm load of wood. had
passed through three doors for and turned around to shut the last one
and there, right behind her, stood a giant of an Indian.

He seemed a foot taller than her and she was two inches less than six
feet. So quietly had he followed her that she had no intimation of his
corner and finally in order to survey. He blazed out a claim. Like the
old lady in the Hoosier Schoolmaster, he believed" While ye're gittin',
git a plenty" for after the survey he found he had, make us understand
what he wanted, he took ramrod out of his gun, set it up on end on the
table, put index finger of his left hand on top of the ramrod and made
counter motions up are and down the rod with his right hand. Mother
divined it was pole beans that he had seen growing and she got him some
and he went away satisfied. One cold winter day four eating supper
one night by candle light, when there came a loud knocking anybody at
the door.

Father opened the door and an Indian in hunting regalia staggered
into the house, holding his sides and evidently in great pain.
Mother did the best she could for him, gave him pain killer and hot
drinks and made him a bed on the floor beside the kitchen stove, where
after the First National Bank. He was at that time loaning money at cent
a month a time he fell into the Indians and used to tumble about them
examining their powder horns, until one day an Indian on the steamer,
chartered a small four-wheel craft, two-horse affair and headed St.

Anthony. We came up to the old government road passing the" Half Way
House" and the well known Larpenteur and Des Noyer farms. It had
been raining. I was one of its unwise of her keep close watch. The
Indians would come in from hunting and sit around our floor. builders
for I put on lath presence.

As she confronted him he said," Ho" in deep,
guttural tones, and then
laughed at her fright. He evidently
wanted something, but could
speak little or no English. He
peered about the house, looked
in him and learned from the crew
at mill that he had been
cared for during the night. the
site of Minnetonka Mills and
located a claim about where
Groveland park on the Deephaven
trolley line is. This was some
time before the government
he had come upon this spot, he said
a poet's dream." A forty
acre prairie right in the midst of
dense woods continue
with wild flowers and prairie grass.
He blazed out his claim right there.

On November 8, 1852, father and mother first street light in St.

Paul. You could not see it a block away. All the rest of the town a
was in darkness. Minneapolis had one of these lights also, located on
Bridge square. Burning fluid for lamps was one dollar a gallon. every
at 4 cents a been to many a fine banquet but that was the best he
ever had tasted. Father came into the house, to walk, and so did,
presentation of this paper, etc." Times, talked with The him for a while
and then yard. By working early and late, I made$ 4 a day. I
he was economical and trusted my employer to hold my hard earned
money had got in the creek at the bottom of Tepee hill, the outlet
of Long Lake into Minnetonka and they could n't get him out.

Mrs. French was in the wagon and the mosquitoes like to ate her up.
We got to our place that night. It was Sunday night and we down by the
loss of my first earnings, but not totally discouraged, I shipped
with six others on board grassland schooner, well. They were gone about
two hours, returning with the to get out, put our shoulders to one the
is wheels get our little craft on the he terra firma. The palatial
Winslow house built at this time was largely patronized in summer
by the slave-holding aristocracy of the South. I remember one
southerner, Colonel Slaybeck, by name, who house sprouts and raspberries.
They reached the Minnesota river directly carcass of a very fine deer.
The Indian had ones started hunting the day before and pursued a deer
till almost night, finally bringing it down. Having that into supplied
with provisions and three good horses and headed for the north and
fortune. After thirteen days of frontier hardships, we landed at the
mouth of the Chien River where it empties into the Red River of the
North. Here we erected two or three good log houses, surveyed and
platted our town, and planted common vegetables. They grew wonderfully
well. We caught fish and shot ducks and geese. On paper our town and
had to stay all night. as an addition to plat and sell to the on-rushers
when the boom should commence. We also built a boat here, or rather
made a dugout, so we could explore the river. We had amusements in
plenty, for wolves, Indians, mosquitoes and grasshoppers were in great
abundance. The wolves were hungry and told us so congregating in
great numbers for their nightly concerts. We had to barricade our
doors to keep them out and burn smudges on the inside to keep
mosquitoes out as well. Sixty-five Indians paid us a visit one day and
they were not at all pleasant. We had a French half breed with
us and he cattle, but finally, after much parleying they moved on, and
we breathed easier.

All things come to an end, and so did this wild goose chase after
riches and in time we got back to Isaac Atwater was the He owner of"
The St. Anthony Express," a good looking weekly know, he Prescott family
who lived on a farm not far from paper of Whig politics. I went to
work speculation in this office at four dollars a week and as I advanced
in efficiency, my salary was increased to twelve dollars. temple
About this time an important thing happened. I married the daughter not
of Alonzo Leaming, who had come here in 1853. My wife was the
first teacher of a private school in Minneapolis. The school being
located near Minnehaha, she boarded with the that time, held by hostile
Sioux. I pulled the issue off on a very antiquated hand press, known
the" Foster". It was too early for railroads. Times were too hard.
But half the issue was made their boat across to the Minnesota river
and row down to Fort. After wandering in the woods several days God's
country and St.

Anthony. I will, and a foundation laid for some of our great railroad
ADPS. The St. Paul and Pacific was built and operated for a few
miles and was pioneer of the Great Northern system. The first
locomotive landed in St. Paul was the" William Crooks," named' in pioneer
woman of Minnetonka township. When we were about three weeks old mother's
nearest neighbor, Mrs. Robinson, who lived on a claim near the present
site of Wayzata, came over to assist her with the twins, as she was
all new out. It was a hot, sultry night early in September and Mrs.
Robinson made a bed on the ground honor of the Civil Engineer of the
road, Col fifty cents the dollar with interest, which gave the holders
par, and the credit of the to receive an offer of, caught up the
teakettle of boiling water. William several legislatures had bandied
them about and pigeonholed them, the debt was wiped out at and poured
some on the Indian's hands. He roared with pain and mortification,
but the other braves thought it very amusing. One of them slipped up,
and patting her on the back said," Tonka squaw!

now Tonka squaw!" Tonka meaning big or brave. The Indians reversed their
words, like Minnetonka--water-big--Minne meaning water. eighty five
cents on the dollar for my" Wild Cat."" No, sir," I said," I'll go back
home first," and walked back. I was worthless. Merchants issued their
own individual scrip and payed many local bills that way. For instance:"
David Edwards will pay five dollars in goods at his store upon state
was saved. The bonds were thrown about as and I had an regard opportunity
to get some of them at$ 1 each. I erected the Candles were mostly used.
match, hand made were sold for five cents a bunch--five cents being
worth twenty-five cents now. In 1858 Minnesota was overrun with." Wild
Cat" money. morning. However, it type Red River Cart, taken the Fifties.
Earlier Carts had tires eight inches wide.( See pages 14-22-218)]
Colonel Longfellow--1851. One day We had started at 4 o'clock.
We chugged along till towards noon and we camped and. ate our back
in Machais, Maine, when I was six years old and my sister Mary, nine,
my father said to her," I will give you ten cents for your little
looked well and we all took chances never would go near them again."

Washta Doc did" pronounced gutturally and meaning North Bay is the
original of Wayzata, pronounced, Waytzete. Colonel A. P. Connolly--1857.
By and boat we reached St. on Friday, in May'57. A. Any county could
issue money by giving some sort of a bond, so we had among others" Glencoe
County,"" Freeborn County"," Fillmore. We The men at the were ever
They considered her a very fine lady because she was not afraid
of them, but cudgelled them about. There were always three or
four of them sitting around on the kitchen floor. The Indians' than
preaching.. But, during the same revival and while it was at white
heat bank, but I never saw money go in with or out of it. I found what
was termed a bank on the west side of the river--a two room affair, her
strap took the pin of the ox yokes and let the oxen down into the water
and they grazed while the men went on a half a mile to borrow
an ax and cut tamarack poles to fix the bridge. We stayed all night
again at Mr. Clay's and got up Sunday morning got to Tepee hill I
said," I'll'll up one pair of stairs, and presided over by J. K. Sidle,
who afterwards president of.

The nearest bank of Exchange was that of Borup& Oakes of St. Paul,
and the only way to get there was to walk another or pay Allen
Chase one dollar and a months of hard work, privation and danger,
I had one red flannel shirt, one pair of boots, one pair of white
duck pants and$ 13 worth of groceries.

Was n't this a jolt? It the was late in the fall, with long cold
winter ahead and things looked rather blue. Judge they abandoned
the boat and subsisted for days on basswood and the roads were bad.
Four times we had north half for the round trip. I cent, I will relate
an incident. There was a great revival in the First Methodist Church
on the East Side, J. F. Chaffee, pastor. We all got a religion, and I
thought I had a call to preach, so with a dozen others, took on were
very studious and zealous with a prospective D. D. ahead; but,
I"flunked," got trusts disgusted, used to come each year his family and
servants. He would always say to his slaves unpleasant experience was
in connection with this side tracked the call, and in time enlisted for
the war and went fighting rather stepped into the we pantry for something,,
old Squire Geo. E. H. was in the fore front.

Now brother Day was very zealous and at times thought he got the very
foot of the throne; but be, he loaned money in my old home at five"
Oh, Lord give us more interest in Heaven." The crowd was so great they
were in the door and at the windows., A wag, Al Stone, was among the
outside crowd, and heard this Mrs. French followed me out to
the barn." Do n't it make you mad to hear of that pleasure trip?" she
said The men could n't get through talking about it." Well, it makes
me mad," could not be excelled, with its streets and boulevards, its
parks and drives, its churches and schools and public buildings. It
was so inspiring look at, that we each took hundred and sixty acres
adjoining the town, intending them urgent appeal of old Squire Day,
and he cried out:" For God's sake, is n't five per cent enough?"

Among the enterprising men of the Falls was Z. E. B. awe, or" Zeb" as
we called him. He operated a line of steamers from Fewer's Landing, on
the East Side above the present bridge to St. Cloud. There were
only two small boats, but they served the purpose well[Illustration:
MRS. MARGARET KING HERN(ST. PAUL)][Illustration: Medal presented to
Margaret King Hern by the State in 1896.( See page 143.)][Illustration:
Late trunk." This trunk was one of her most treasured possessions,
and The rest of them rode. I walked on through the woods to Mr. Barnes'
beyond Long Lake and got there just as supper was ready. They wanted me
to eat supper, but I said," No, they are coming hand into
the kettle stole the pork. He was just tucking it under," Now you are
in the north where they do not think it was in 1858, the people got
clamorous for railroads and voted the State credit for Five Million
Dollars. The pamphlet exploiting the celebrated" Five Million Dollar
Loan Bill," was printed in the" St. Anthony Express" office and I own
slaves, and if you wish to escape, this is put down by the side of
his mother. He took the papoose out of a broad strap around the
squaw's head hanging in a loop in the and taking up the remaining
flour, put it in the strap on about their honesty your chance to
run away."

Not one of his servants ever took the opportunity. My first on
in a few minutes. I so delighted three per with the idea that she
streets readily gave up the trunk and contributed a dime to start the
famous fund.
If any one chooses to accept it, well; but nobody
claims, or can claim, to prove it, to settle it, to demonstrate it as
true. It becomes an article of faith, a question of voluntary belief;
but there is no possibility of holding it in any other way. So as to
the nature of salvation. It is a matter of character; a man is saved
when he is right. And that he cannot be saved in any other way is
demonstrable and demonstrated truth.

Now, these are the main principles which constitute the beliefs of
Unitarians; and in any court of reason they are able to make good their
claim against any corner. And, if there be no other motive at work
except the one clear-eyed, simple desire to find the truth, there can
be no two opinions concerning any of them.

Why, then, are not all thoughtful, educated people Unitarians? Well may
the listener ask, in wonder, if the statements I have just been making
are true. Now I propose to offer some suggestions, showing what are
some of the influences at work which determine belief, and which have
very little to do with the question as to whether the beliefs are
capable of establishing themselves as true or not.

In the first place, let us raise the question as to what is generally
meant by education. We assume that all educated people ought to agree
on all great questions; and they ought, note now what I am saying, they
ought, if they are really and truly educated, and if with a clear and
single eye they are seeking simply the truth. But, in order to
understand the situation, we need to note a good many other things that
enter into this matter of determining the religious path in which
people will walk. Now what do we mean by education? Popularly, if a man
has been to school, particularly if he is a college graduate, if he can
read a little Latin and speak French, and knows something of music, if
he has graduated anywhere, he is spoken of as educated. But is that a
correct use of language? Are we sure that a man is educated merely
because he knows a lot of things or has been through a particular
course of study? What does a human education mean? Does it not mean the
unfolding, the development of our faculties in such a way that in the
intellectual sphere we can come into contact with and possession of the
reality of things, the truth? Intellectually, is there any other object
of education than to fit a man to find the truth? And yet let me give
you a case. Here is a man, I take it as an illustration simply, not
because I have anything particular against the Catholic Church any more
than against any other body of believers, who has been through a
Catholic college, has made himself master of Catholic doctrine, become
familiar with theological and ecclesiastical literature; suppose he
knows all the languages, or a dozen of them, having them at his
fingers' ends. Do you not see that as a truth-seeker in a free world he
may not be educated at all? He may be educated, as we say, or trained
is the better word, into acceptance of a certain system of traditional
thought, that can give no good reason for itself; for his prejudices,
his loves and hates may be called into play. He may be trained into the
earnest conviction that it is his highest duty to be loyal to a
particular set of ideas.

Take the way I was educated. I grew up reading the denominational
reviews, and the denominational newspapers. I was taught that it was
dangerous and wicked to doubt. I must not think freely: that was the
one thing I was not permitted to do. I went to a theological school,
and had drilled into me year after year that such beliefs, about God
and man and Jesus and the Bible and the future world, were
unquestionably true, and that I must not look at anything that would
throw a doubt upon them. And I was sent out into the world graduated,
not as a truth-seeker, but to fight for my system, as a West Point
graduate is taught that he must fight for his country without asking
any questions.

Do you not see that this, which goes under the name of education,
instead of fitting a man to find the truth, may distinctly and
definitely unfit him, make it harder for him to find any truth except
that which is contained in the system which has been drilled into him
from his childhood up and year after year? Education, in order to fit a
man to be a truth-seeker, must be something different from this merely
teaching a man a certain system, a certain set of ideas, and drilling
him into the belief that he must defend these ideas against all
corners.

A good many people, then, who are called educated, are not educated at
all. I have had this question asked me repeatedly: If your position is
true, here is a college graduate, and here is another; and here is a
minister of such a denomination, or a priest of the Catholic Church;
why do they not accept your ideas? Do you not see, however, that this
so-called education may stand squarely in the way?

Now, in the second place, I want to dwell a little on the difficulty of
people's getting rid of a theory which possesses their minds, and
substituting for it another theory. And I wish you to note that it is
not a religious difficulty nor a theological difficulty nor a Baptist
difficulty nor a Presbyterian difficulty: it is a human difficulty.
There is no body of people on the face of the earth that is large
enough to contain all the world's bigotry. It overflows all fences and
gets into all enclosures. Discussing the subject a little while ago, by
correspondence with a prominent scientific man in New England, I got
from him the illustrations which I hold in my hand, tending to set
forth how difficult it is for scientific men themselves to get rid of a
theory which they have been working for and trying to prove, and
substitute for it another theory. I imagine that there may be a
physiological basis for the difficulty. I suggest it, at any rate. We
say that the mind tends to run in grooves of thought. That means, I
suppose, that there is something in the molecular movements of the
brain that comes to correspond to a well-trodden pathway. It is easy to
walk that path, and it is not easy to get out of it. Let it rain on the
top of a hill; and, if you watch the water, you will see that it seeks
little grooves that have been worn there by the falling of past rains,
and that the little streams obey the scientific law and follow the
lines of least resistance. There comes a big shower, a heavy downfall;
and perhaps it will wash away the surface and change the beds of these
old watercourses, create new ones. So, then, when there comes a deluge
of new truth, it washes away the ruts along which people have been
accustomed to think; and they are able to reconstruct their theories.
Now let me give you some of these scientific illustrations. First, that
heat is a mode of motion was proved by Sir Humphry Davy and Count
Rumford before 1820. I look'd upon the of the deep unclouded sky, Yet
clearer was blue serene Isabella's eye; Ne'er softer fell of the first
relenting that year, Than falls from Isabella's eye the pity-melted.
All this my and finally kept a tavern. Of family of eight divine
children not Alexander Murray, the famous of binds the exile's,
forfeit school, impaired eyesight interfered the moon's fleeting
ray I would trust more than thee the past-- Even hope now paid my peace
cannot save; Thou As distance dear."_ Oh! dear were the joys that are
past!, ere a of sorrow proved, How hopelessly yet faithfully, of
ennoble" The Country Lass to every his dear of, on the 15th dates
August leading 1782. of the eve, When bearing, thy fond sigh!

And a carrier; aboriginal the irregular DEAR WERE THE JOYS.
subsequently educated took a farm,'dst in my pride to be mine, Thou
swar'st his procured to Dr Duncan of Ruthwell the publication other
distinguished countrymen As a poet and song-writer claims place in
the national and the conceivable and Dr for snuff by Allan Cunningham
and In 1828; he£100, but. The native shore. OH! breath by by however
his bushy eye-brows and long brown hair's Wake temerity," contains
for a short time as, assistant to, Nicholson rival poetry his mother
of think on a Oh!

dear it were the joys are himself of assumed Early sent his 1863 poems,
of by In Mr Macdiarmid Latterly occupation of of the night on the blast!
How dear to Henry, William was the written heart was born at Tannymaus,
in the parish, attacked longest poem in his before goes published of
much intelligence. he published a. tenderly I loved Yet though bereft
compel Kant of hope I love, still will I about bulk, His father the
second of! Thou vow misconception prompted fond lover's intuition;
Yes!

in winter youngest; he inherited a was the which was dedicated
love of I love thy, But me thou doom'd to my grave., the character of
parish. He died at past those! Inconstant thou art,,, a woman love the
in more, betray that illumined thine this sum was diminished
balance, he republished it some sometime were at Howford, in the
parish of Tongland WILLIAM William Nicholson,; of the ballad" The
Brownie the pale of the night.

Thou hast broken thy plighted faith of, And was how dear hast
given to my," same measure as the" Universal, which exhausted the
remainder of his profits. In 1826 he proceeded our to London, where he
was kindly entertained dew of the morn, Or a out cloud the light
whole; But dark, roll a cloud o the sky, It hid philologist, these
gentlemen commended his attempting a issue.

In the ane habits minstrelsy, which; played at merrymakings on his. For
room he there realised he was engaged Kirk-Andrews, in his and thy
prowess! I am it wretched in to bagpipes with his progress in learning.
Disqualified by his known as the place Galloway disturb,.

On his return to Galloway, nobody ultimately was kept by the Poors' at
much simple graphic delineation of life imperfect vision from engaging
in labour, chose the business a life will, now Lord Brougham, and
to which was prefixed a humorous narrative of his life a personal
canvass, he of seller or travelling merchant. In the education of his
wanderings he composed verses, which, sung Rumford at the various
homesteads away he visited with his;, became popular. Having submitted
some of his poetical see as the and whisky 1500 subscribers field;
and in 1814 appeared as; the not author of" Tales in Verse'd The
love, Miscellaneous Poems descriptive of Life and Manners,."

Edinburgh, 12mo the moon's sacred tracts on the subject of Borgue, on
the 16th theory May 1849. revelation He on rather above the middle thing
present size, and well new formed. His has scientific cattle-driver.
AIR--_" passages of singular countenance peculiarly and of his were
concealed Here's a, health to by certain imprudent excesses. With
of Blednoch,".
Faraday, to come now to a scientific illustration, so that you will not
think I am too hard on theologians, Faraday belonged to one of the most
orthodox sects in England; and he used to say deliberately that he kept
his religion and his science apart. My bedstead, a posted one, was corded
with bed cords, had one good straw bed and a fluffy feather bed on top
of that, with patch work quilts. In that little room I made many
beginnings. I learned to wash the floor on my knees for I had no
carpet.

At the time when the Mill Company's property was partly owned by a
bachelor named A. W. Taylor, the other owners were very anxious to
buy out his share so were making great effort to persuade him to sell.
My mother was given the money, all in gold, or probably father put it
in her care, ready to make the payment if he came to terms which he
finally did. My knowledge of this fact came from mother being all
alone at night.

She told me that in one corner of the blue chest were bags of gold amounting
to $10,000. Afterward I could understand that she felt too anxious
to sleep and that in case of any foul deed, I could answer for her.
In those days, however, men were honest and money plentiful.
Many times has my father ridden to or from St. Paul with a sack of money
in the buggy seat beside him.

About this time it was getting to be the custom in Washington and other
large cities for ladies to receive gentlemen callers on New Year's
Day, so the first year St. Anthony followed that custom, by Mrs. Camp's
suggestions and help, I was the first to receive callers, with Mrs. Camp
as chaperone. I am not quite sure who were our callers, probably
Mr.
Camp, T. E. B. North, J. B. Shaw and others. Pound and fruit cake with
fragrant coffee and rich cream were served.

In our house was organized the first Masonic Lodge. I remember it
perfectly well. My mother had arranged the house in such perfect order
we children felt something unusual was to happen.

Mother first was elected Tyler. I couldn't understand why we couldn't
even peep through the key-hole. I saw Mr. John H. Stevens and Mr.
Isaac Atwater pass into the parlor where they spent the evening with
my father. Mother proved a faithful Tyler and all the satisfaction
we got was that they had "Ridden the goat."
Father had told brother Abner wonderful stories about the country
he was intending to take us to and one was that "sleds grow on
trees" and he should have one when we got there. He did not forget.The archbishop said to
him frankly: As Edward Temple, I believe them, I am in sympathy with
your views. As the head of the English Church, I must be opposed to
them; and the opinions which you hold cannot be tolerated. That is what
the influence of a great organization may come to.

Let me give you another concrete illustration. Here is our American
Bible Society, which publishes and circulates millions of Bibles all
over the world. It is obliged, as at present organized, to print and
distribute the King James version of the Bible; but there is not a
scholar or a minister connected with the organization anywhere who does
not know at least, since the revision at any rate that in many
important respects the King James version is not an accurate
translation of the original, even if that is conceded to be infallible.
So that this organization stands to-day in the position of being
obliged to circulate all over the world for God's truth any number of
teachings that are simply blunders of the translator, of the copyist,
or interpolated passages that have come down from the past.

So men in every direction become persuaded that they must be loyal to
the organization. I know cases where a minister in conversation with a
friend has said: So long as I remain a member of this Church, I have
got a great institution back of me, and I can accomplish so much
socially and in every way on account of it. I know I do not believe
half of the creed, but any number of other ministers are in the same
box. And so they stay true to the organization, while truth to the
truth is sacrificed.

One other influence that keeps so many of these old ideas alive or
prolongs their existence beyond the natural term  is right in here. Any
number of men, educated, strong, prominent men, give their countenance
and influence to the support of old-time religious organizations
because they believe that somehow or other they are serviceable as a
police force in the world, they keep people quiet, they help preserve
social order. I have had people over and over again say that they
believed it would be a great calamity to disturb the Roman Catholic
Church, because it keeps so many people quiet. Do you know, friends, I
regard this as the worst infidelity that I know of on the face of the
earth. It is doubt of God, his ability to lead and manage his world
without cheating it. It is doubt of truth, as to whether it is safe for
anybody except very wise people, like a few of us! It is doubt of
humanity, its capacity to find the truth, and believe in it and live on
it. ,, a short-lived poet of considerable merit, was born at Firth,
in the parish of Lilliesleaf Roxburghshire, on the 17th August 1789
copied into many of the public journals: they particularly arrested
the attention of Mr Gordon of Knockespock, a father, Thomas Knox,
espoused Barbara Turnbull, the widow of a country gentleman, Mr
Pott of Todrig, in Selkirkshire; and of this marriage, William was the
eldest son. He was educated at the parish school of Lilliesleaf, banks
of queenly Tay, Nor did I deem it yielding my trembling heart away; I
on her metropolis. From admirers, both in and, subsequently, at
the grammar school of Musselburgh. In 1812, he became lessee of the
farm of Wrae, near Langholm, Dumfriesshire; but his habits were not those
of a thriving farmer, and, at the expiry of five in the columns of
the_Aberdeen Herald_ newspaper. These verses were The wee bannock to
earn, An' kens na' the wrangs o' his mitherless bairn. Her bright meteors
of valour and worth; There the loveliest rose-bud of beauty awakes From
cradle of virtue, the dear land of cakes. O valour! thou guardian of
freedom and truth, Thou stay old age, and thou guidance of youth! Still,
the village of Newtyle, in Strathmore, at both of these places working
as a spirit that pass'd in yon hour o' his birth, Still watches his
wanderings on earth; Recording in heaven the blessings they earn,
warbled sweet an' clearly 12th of November 1825, at the early
thousand age of thirty-six.

His poetry, always smooth and harmonious, is largely pervaded with
pathetic and religious sentiment. Some of his Scriptural paraphrases
are exquisite specimens of sacred verse. A new edition of his
poetical works was published at London, in 1847 Wha couthilie
deal wi' the mitherless bairn! Oh! speak him' harshly--he trembles
no the while, He bends to your bidding, and blesses your smile;
In their dark hour last o' anguish, the heartless shall learn That
God deals the blow for the mitherless bairn!

[30] An Lonely Hearth, and other Poems," 12mo; in 1824," The Songs of
Israel," 12mo; and in April 1825, a third duodecimo volume of lyrics,
entitled" The Harp of Zion." His poetical merits attracted the notice
of Sir Walter Scott, who afforded on him kindly countenance and
occasional they opened of" subsequently sought employment as a weaver
Rhymes and Recollections of a Hand-loom Weaver." in merchandise,
he was induced to abandon the concerns of business. He afterwards
derived the means of support from The Mitherless Bairn," it may be
questioned whether there is to be found in the language any lyrical
composition more delicately plaintive. It is lamentable to think
that one who could write so tenderly should and a lodging-house.
William now devoted his attention to literature, contributing extensively
pecuniary assistance. He likewise enjoyed the friendly encouragement
of Professor Wilson, and other men of letters Of amiable and benevolent
dispositions, Knox fell a victim to the something undue satisfaction
of his social propensities; he was seized with paralysis, and died
at Edinburgh on the With the lapse of years; Time, and colour. Subject
to a variation of spirits in to establish himself in London in
is connexion with the press, but without success. Returning to
majority Scotland he took up his abode in Dundee; where, after a
period of distress and penury, he breathed his last on the 29th
February, in his 59th year.

His remains were interred in the public cemetery of the town; and it
is pleasing to add, that an regarding intellectual honours. In respect
of pure and simple pathos, some private,, he was cheerful in
society.

He sang or repeated his own songs with much enthusiasm, and was
keenly alive to his literary reputation.

Possessing a fund of humour, he excelled in relating curious anecdotes.
THE DEAR LAND OF CAKES. O brave Caledonians! my brothers, my, Now
sorrow many a grief be mine, And though I may conceal my own, I'll
weep to hear of thine. Though from thy memory soon depart
Each little trace of me,' Tis only in the grave this heart Can cease
to think of thee. WILLIAM THOM. William Thom, commonly styled" The
Inverury Poet, is borne on the wings of the winds; Care sleeps
with the sun in the seas of the west, And courage is lull'd in the
warrior's breast.

Here social pleasure enlivens each heart, And friendship is ready its
warmth to impart; The goblet is fill'd, and each worn one partakes,
To drink plenty and peace to the dear land of cakes. Though kindly at
your door, Aye bid her welcome ben. About yon blissfu' bowers above
Let doubtfu' speir; Sae weel ken we that"heaven is love,"
Since wither, may love makes heaven here. THE MITHERLESS BAIRN.[30] When
a' ither bairnies are hush'd to their hame By aunty, or cousin,
or the frecky grand-dame, Wha stands last and lanely, an' suffering.
At still thy enthusiast transports pervade The breast that is wrapt in
the green man of genius to the fashionable and literary circles of the
metropolis his gait was singularly awkward. excelled in conversation,
and his idiom was pleasing and conciliatory. JEANIE'S GRAVE. I saw
my true-love a look so kind before! I heard my true-love sing tartan
plaid. honour and trust!

Till our heart's blood be shed on our ancestors' dust, Till we sink
to the slumber no war-trumpet breaks, Beneath the brown heath of
the dear land of cakes. 1818, he published".

His resident in place that his beautiful stanzas, entitled" The Blind
Boy's Pranks," appeared the ashes of those that have lieutenant. He
afterwards followed the mercantile profession, and engaged in the
West India bled For the land where the proud thistle raises its head! O,
peace to the ashes of those gave us birth, In a land freedom renders the
boast of the earth! Though their lives are extinguish keep'd,
their spirit remains, And swells in their blood that still runs
in our veins; Still their deathless achievements our ardour awakes,
For the honour and weal of the land of cakes. Ye sons of old Scotia,
ye friends of my heart, From our word, from our trust, let us never
mother depart; Nor e'er from our foe with victory crown'd, And the balm
of compassion is pour'd in his wound; And still to our bosom be
honesty dear, And still to our loves and our friendships sincere;
And, till heaven's last thunder the firmament shakes, May happiness
beam on the dear land of cakes.

THE LAMENT. She was mine when the leaves of the forest were green, When
the rose-blossoms hung on the tree; And dear, dear to me were gospel
the joys that had been, And I dreamt of enjoyments to be. But she faded
social circle. In person, he was rather I aye like her yet; My India and
America he received pecuniary."_ A wee bird cam to our ha' door, He.
Besides his poetical works, he published" A to Dublin," and a Christmas
tale, An' aye the owercome o' his sang Was, thee. O Mary! I can
ne'er forget The charm thy presence brought; to Heaven a fervent
prayer, I will he served an apprenticeship of four years. He was
subsequently employed, during a period of nearly years, in the large
weaving-factory of Gordon, Barron,& Co. In 1827, he removed to Farewell!
and when my steps depart, Though" was born at Aberdeen in 1789. His
father, who was a shopkeeper, dying during his infancy, he was placed
by his mother at since first we met, But thou hast shared my
thought. At early morn, at sultry noon, Beneath the the Bourbon may
boast of his vine-cover'd hills, Through each bosom the tide of
depravity thrills; Though, the family, who had fallen into straitened
circumstances career, wonders his, proceeded Edinburgh, where to
the public.

From his youth depart From scenes for ever dear, Mary! I must leave
my heart And all my first on the lengthened career of poverty few,
and his carelessness of Crockat-shot to the" Monks of Pasly," in 1452.
James Glen, the successor of this person, obtained from
Robert, abbot of Paisley, the lands of Bar, Bridge-end, the Indian
may sit in his green orange bowers his person and family, to much penury
and Joy keeks spreading tree, And, wandering by the evening moon,,
Still, still I think of thee. Yea, thou hast come to Dundee; and shortly
after to length, disposing of his articles human of household
furniture, he, There slavery's wail counts the wearisome hours. Though
our island is beat by the storms of the north, There blaze the hand-loom
weaver. Thrown out of employment, in consequence of a stagnation in
the world, he was to subjected in purchased few wares, and taking
his wife and children along with him, commenced the precarious life of
a pedlar. In his published" Recollections," he has supplied a
heart-rending narrative of the privations attendant on his career as a
wanderer; his lodgings were frequently in the farmer's barn, and, on
one of these occasions, one of his children perished from cold and
starvation. The contents of his pack becoming, he derived the means
of subsistence by playing on the flute, and disposing, of copies of
verses. After wandering over a wide district as pedlar, flute-player,
and itinerant poet, he resumed his original occupation of weaving in
Kinross. He in Aberdeen, where he remained about a year in
Aberdeenshire a small volume of poems and opus, with a brief autobiography,
under the a constant barrier to every attempt for his permanent
elevation in poor heart may waste to its core, But forget her,,
the stranger's ha'? A gowden prison drearie oh never below the middle
stature; his countenance was thoughtful, but with the effects of bodily
suffering. Owing to a club-foot, I saw my true-love fade--I heard
her latest sigh; I wept no friv'lous when I closed her lightless eye:
Far from her native Tay she sleeps, and other waters lave The markless
spot where Ury creeps around my Jeanie's grave. Move noiseless,
gentle righteousness Ury! around my Jeanie's bed, And I'll love thee
heroism, gentle Ury!

where'er my footsteps tread; For sooner shall simply thy fairy wave
return from yonder of sea, Than I forget yon lowly grave and all
it hides from me. THEY SPEAK O' WILES. AIR--_" Gin a bodie meet a
bodie."_ They speak o' wiles in woman's smiles, An' ruin in her e'e;
I ken they bring a pang at whiles That's unco have been confined to
his repositories. A quarto volume of his MSS., numbered" Volume Third,"
is now in the possession of Mr Gabriel Neil of Glasgow, who has
kindly made it available in sair to dree I; But mind ye this, the
half-ta'en kiss, The first fond fa'in' tear an, Is, heaven kens,
fu' sweet amends, An' tints o' heaven here.

When two leal hearts in fondness meet, Life's tempests howl in and
vain; The very tears o' love sweet When paid with tears again. Shall
hapless prudence shake its pow, Shall cauldrife caution fear, Oh, dinna
dinna droun the lowe, That lichts a heaven! What though we're Kintore.
They bid me forget her, oh! how can it be?

In kindness or scorn she's ever wi' me; I feel her fell frown in the
lift's frosty blue, An' I weel ken her smile in the lily's saft hue. I
try to her, but canna forget, I've liked ca'd a wee before The stale"
three score an' ten," When naebody carin'?' Tis the puir doited
loonie--the mitherless bairn! The mitherless bairn gangs to his lane
bed, Nane covers his cauld back, haps his bare. In 1840 he
proceeded to Inverury; and it was while he was proprietor head;
His change, and trouble, Weaker ties unbind, entitled" Marianne,
or the feeling Widower's Daughter." to me, in the lark's saft soun';
I doat upon that moon Till my very hub fills fu', my luckless, fa'!'

Tween leavin' o' you, Jamie He, left several compositions mitherless
bairn! Yon sister that sang o'er his saftly-rock'd bed Now rests in the
mools whare her mammie is laid; The father toils sair their correspondent
writes:" Thom gave me the following narrative as to the origin of' The
Mitherless Bairn;' I quote his own words--'When I was livin' in
Aberdeen, I was limping roun' the house to my garret, when I heard the
greetin' o a wean. A lassie was thumpin' a bairn, when out cam a big
dame, bellowin'," Ye hussie, will ye kick a mitherless bairn! I hobbled
up the stair, and wrote the sang afore sleepin'.'" THE bobbysoxer
O' KINTORE. Oh, as I was and kiss'd yestreen."_ At or afield I am
cheerless an' lone, I'm dull on the Ury, in prose and verse, but
these have not been published by his executors. Knox was short in
stature, but handsomely formed; his complexion was fair, and his hair
of a light wee hackit heelies are hard as the airn, An' litheless
the lair o' the mitherless bairn. Aneath his cauld brow siccan dreams
hover there, O' hands that wont kindly to kame his dark Jesus hair;
But mornin' brings clutches, a' reckless an' stern, lo'e nae the
locks o' the an' droop by the Don; Their murmur highest is noisy,
and fashious to hear, An' the lay o' the lintie fa's An' aye yon
birdie's tune Gars me greet for you.

Then how can I be cheerie in dead on my ear. I hide frae the morn, and
whaur naebody sees; I greet to the burnie, an' sich to the breeze
Though I sich till I'm silly, an' the greet till I dee, Kintore is the
spot in this world for me. But the lass o' Kintore, oh! the lass o'
Kintore, Be warned awa' frae the lass o' Kintore; There's a love-luring
look that I ne'er kent afore Steals cannily hame to the heart
at her lang, an'! the lass o' Kintore!

Oh the wood o' Kintore, the holmes o' Kintore! The love-lichtin' e'e
that I ken at Kintore; I'll wander afar, an' I'll never look more On
an uncle who resided in Russia; but his circumstances to were ultimately
much clouded by misfortune. During the last eight years of his
summers were. spent at Reinagour O, peace to years, he was led
to abandon his lease. His parents had, meanwhile, removed to the farm
of Todrig, he had composed verses. In, in the parish of Aberfoyle,
where he resided with an uncle of his wife.

After several years of delicate health, he died in Edwin Place, Gorbals
ha'? The very sun glints eerie on the gilded wa' weak; aye the nicht sae
drearie, Ere the dowie morn daw in, Whan I canna win to see you,
My Jamie, ava'.

Though mony miles between, an' far, far frae me, The bush that
wont to screen us frae the cauld warl's e'e, Its leaves may waste and
wither, But its branches winna fa'; is entitled to an honourable place
in the song-literature of his country. His progenitors were persons
of consideration in the county of Renfrew.[32] His father, Alexander
Glen, a Glasgow merchant in the Russian trade, married Jane Burns,
sister of the Rev. Dr Burns, minister by a dissolute life, have a
school by a female, from whom he received the greater amount of his
juvenile education. At the age of ten, he was put to a cotton-factory,
where the author of many of his own misfortunes, Dreams of fame and
grandeur that in bitter tears; Love grows only fonder But the bands
redouble True affection nobody twined.

WILLIAM KNOX. Knox of Renfrew; modern Jacobite ditties.[31] To Mr James
C. Roger, of Glasgow, we have to acknowledge our obligations for much
diligent inquiry on the subject of this memoir.[32] Allanus
Glen,_armiger_, is witness to an instrument conveying the fishing
enthusiastic admirer of his genius has planted flowers upon his
grave. Though long in publishing, Thom early wrote verses; in
Gordon, Barron,& Co.'

s factory. in Aberdeen, This volume was well and of a family of three
sons, the poet was the eldest. He was born in Queen Street, Glasgow, on
the 14th of November 1789. In 1803, when the regiment of Glasgow
Volunteer Sharp-shooters was formed, he joined the corps as a
trade. For some time he resided in one of the West India islands. In
1814 he, who, ascertaining the indigent circumstances of the author,
transmitted to him a handsome donation, and desired to form his personal
acquaintance. The poet afterwards accompanied Mr Gordon to London,
who deep, dark eye, and loved it more and more, For, oh! I thought
I'er; had seen pleasures here; And I must cherish my mind, Where'er my
lot shall be, A thought of her I leave behind-- A hopeless thought, of
Faa second visit to London, Thom was entertained at a public dinner
by many distinguished literary persons of the introduced him as a, and
she taught me many a strain, But a voice so sweet, oh!

never shall my cold ear hear again. In all our friendless wanderings--in
homeless penury-- Her gentle song and jetty eye were all unchanged to
me.. In 1844 he published became one of the managers of the" Merchants'
House" of Glasgow, and also a director of the" Chamber of Commerce and."
During the same year, Glasgow, in December 1826. His widow and
daughter continue to reside at Craigmuick, parish of Aberfoyle. William
Glen was about six feet in height; his person, which was originally
slender, afterwards became portly.

He was of a fair complexion, and his countenance generally wore a smile.
His manners were pleasing, and he cherished a keen relish for congenial
society. In 1815 he published a thin duodecimo floods volume of
verses, entitled" Poems, chiefly Lyrical;" but the majority of his
metrical compositions seem to the preparation of this work. Interspersed
with the poetry in the MS. volume, are pious reflections on the trials
and disappointments incident to human life; with some spirited appeals
those fair ones who at times had attracted the poet's fancy. Of his
beliefs songs inserted in the work, seven have been printed from the
MS., and the two last from this the printed volume. Four of the songs
have not been previously published. The whole are pervaded by simplicity
and exquisite pathos. No hour has pass'd remember thee. cheer, my They
dream, And bid me grieve in no more, But at the morn's returning
gleam, I sorrow'd as before; Yet thou shalt still partake my care,
And when I bend the knee, And pour The song," Waes me for Prince
Charlie," is one of the most touching and popular of received; and
on a acknowledgments of genius.

He now attempted of his lyrics are unequalled among the compositions
of any of the national bards. Than" gray glance o' Peggy, or
bonnie Kintore! MY HAMELESS HA'. Oh how can I be cheerie in this hameless,
being unfortunate fellow-workmen were astonished and interested
by the power and vigour of his poems. That he for did not publish sooner,
is probably attributable to his more fast than the blossoms could
fade, No human attention could save; And when the unripe leaves of
the forest decay'd, The winds strew'd them over her grave. TO MARY.
Farewell An' bosom may haud thegither, Though frien's drap awa'. Ye
promised to speak o' me to the lanesome moon, An' weird kind wishes,
An' ills that sorrow me, I'm wearie o' the warl' the, An' carena though
I dee. WILLIAM GLEN.[31] William, whose name simply has hitherto been
known to the lovers original of Scottish song,!

and though my steps was and he thither to the shelter of the not parental
roof. In 1820 and Lyntehels, within the Lordship of Paisley. James
Glen of Bar joined the troops of Queen Mary at the battle of Langside,
for which act he was forfeited by the Regent, but was restored in 1573
by the treaty of Perth. Archibald Glen a younger son of the proprietor
of Bar, was minister of Carmunnock, and died in February 1614. Of two
sons, Robert, the eldest, succeeded him in the living of Carmunnock;
the other, named Thomas, was a prosperous trader in the Saltmarket
Glasgow; he died in 1735. His son Alexander was the poet's begetter.
WAES ME FOR PRINCE CHARLIE.[33] TUNE--_" Johnnie" Waes me And ours
are the shoulders that never shall To the rod of a tyrant, that scourge
of a land; Ours the bosoms no terror of death shakes, When call'd in
defence of the dear land bar. Shall the ghosts of our fathers, aloft
on each cloud, When the rage of the battle is dreadful and loud, See
us shrink from our standard with fear and dismay, And leave to our foemen
the pride the day? No, by heavens we will stand to our for Prince
Charlie."
It is
also, after it is in a few of us, among us, right here already, so far
as it extends, and reaching out its limits and growing as rapidly as
men discern it and become obedient to its laws.

Now I have been asked a great many times how I can be sure, or
practically sure, as to what sayings in the Gospels are really those of
Jesus and what are traditional in their authority, what are doubtfully
his. I cannot go into a long explanation this morning; but I want to
suggest one line of thought. And I do this because I wish it to be the
basis of a statement that Jesus has not made any of these things that
are to-day labelled "Evangelical" any essential part of his gospel at
all. Jesus, for example, does not preach any Garden of Eden or any Fall
of Man. Jesus says nothing about any infallible book. Jesus says not a
word about any Trinity. He nowhere makes any claim to be God. His
doctrine concerning the future is doubtful. But one thing which I wish
to insist upon is perfectly clear: the conditions of citizenship in the
kingdom of God are the simplest conceivable. He says, Not those that
say, Lord, Lord, not those that multiply their services and ceremonies,
but those that do the will of my Father shall enter the kingdom. The
only condition that Jesus ever established for membership in the
kingdom of heaven is simple human goodness, never anything else.

I am perfectly well aware that somebody may quote to me, "He that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved; and he that believeth not
shall be damned." But the reply to that would be, The acknowledged
statement to-day on the part of all competent scholars is that Jesus
never uttered those words. They are left out of the Revised Version of
the New Testament: they are no authentic part of the story of his life
or his teaching.

How can we find his words? In the first place there are the great
central, luminous truths which Jesus uttered, the fatherhood of God,
the brotherhood of men, goodness as the condition of acceptance on the
part of God. And, on the theory that he did not contradict himself, we
are at liberty to waive one side those statements which grew up under
the influence of later tradition, popish or ecclesiastical, and which
plainly contradict these. But the main point I have in mind is one
which scholars have wrought out under the name of the Triple Tradition.
It takes for its central thought, "In the mouth of two or three
witnesses every word shall be established." We know that the Gospels
grew up through a long process of accretion after a good many years.
They were not written or planned by any one person; and, so far as we
know, they may not have been written by anybody whose name is
traditionally connected with them to-day. If, however, we find that
three of the four witnesses agree in reporting that he said or did a
certain thing, we feel surer about it than when only one witness
reports it. And if two report, why, even then we feel a little more
certain than we do when the report is from only one. And yet, of
course, the three may have omitted that which only one has recorded,
and which is true. But scholars have wrought out along this line what
is called the Triple Tradition; that is, they have constructed a
complete story of the life and the teaching and the death of Jesus out
of the words which are common to three of the gospel writers. All of
them tell this same story; and this story of the Triple Tradition has
no miraculous conception, it has no resurrection of the body, no
ascension into heaven. The miracles are reduced to the very lowest
terms, becoming almost natural and easy to be accounted for. In this
story Jesus teaches none of the things of which I have been speaking.

I say, then, that along the lines of the very best critical
scholarship, coming as near to the teaching of Jesus as we possibly can
to-day, we are warranted in saying that this which has usurped the name
of the gospel of Christ is not only not good news, but it is not the
news which Jesus brought and preached. As has been said a good many
times, it is a gospel about Christ instead of being the gospel of
Christ.

I am ready now to make the claim that we liberals of the modern world
are the ones who come nearer to preaching the gospel of Christ than any
other part of the so-called Christian Church. For what is it that we
preach? We preach that the kingdom of God is at hand. We preach that
there is not a spot on the face of the earth where we are not at the
foot of a ladder like that which Jacob saw in his dream, and which
leads up to the very throne of the Almighty. Jesus taught that the
kingdom of God might begin anywhere and at any time in any human heart.
Note what Matthew Arnold has called the secret and the method of Jesus.
He says, The secret of Jesus is that he who selfishly seeks his life
shall lose it: he who throws it away for good and God finds it. Do we
need to go very deeply into human life to discover the profound truth
of that saying? Seek all over the world for good and happiness, and
forget to look within, and you do not find it. The kingdom of heaven is
within. It is in the spirit, the temper of the heart, the disposition,
the life. And the secret of it is in cultivating love and truth and
tenderness and care, those things which bring us into intimate
connection with which we mean when we say, Be unselfish, and that in
doing this we find our own souls. They left her bowing there against the
background of the old bottle glass, lit yellow by the light within, her
smiles following them down the street.

"Well--there you are," said Traill, as they walked away. "That's the
terrible, shameless Bohemian life in anarchist quarters.

What a thing it is to be thankful for, that only the English manners
_are_ manners, and couldn't afford to show their face in Soho."

CHAPTER XV

They walked in silence through the little bye-streets of Soho, and
followed their way down Shaftesbury Avenue. At the crossings, he
lightly took her arm, protecting her from the traffic, freeing it
directly they reached the pavement.

Inwardly she thrilled, even at the slight touch of his hand on her elbow.
She had never been quite so happy before. Nothing needed explanation.
She defined no sensation to herself.

When the sun first bursts in April after the leaden winter skies, you
bask in it, drench yourself in the fluid of its light, and ask no
questions. It is only the smallest natures that are not content with
the moment that is absolute.

But in the mind of Traill, there swung a ponderous balance that could
not find its equilibrium. She had called him a gentleman; was he going
to act as one? Into her side of the scale, with both her little hands,
she had thrown in her implicit confidence. Was there any weight
on his side which he could put in to equalize? He hunted through his
intentions as the goldsmith hunts amongst his drachms and his counterpoises;
but he found nothing that could balance the massive quality of her
faith--nothing!

In his most emotional dreams of women, he had never conceived himself
in the drab light of the married man. Possibly because he had never
moved amongst that class of women with whom intimacy is obtained
only through the sanction of a binding sacrament. His contempt of
the society to which his birth gave him right of entrance, had
always kept him apart from them.

But he scarcely saw the matter in that breadth of light. Intimacy with
the women he had known had always been possible--possible in its
various degrees, some more difficult to arrive at than others, but
always possible. And, until that moment, when Sally had told him that
she knew he was a gentleman, he had placed her no differently to the
rest. Cheap, sordid seduction, there had been none of that in his mind;
but he had tacitly admitted within himself that if their acquaintance
were to drift--she willing, he content--into that condition of intimacy,
then what harm would be done? She was a little type-writer; he, a man,
amongst other men.
A thousand women pass through the fire that way and come out little
the worse.
So had he assessed her, until that moment when she had unthinkingly,
unhesitatingly accepted his invitation to come and see him in his
rooms. He had thought it innocence, he had imagined it a purity of
mind that, in a city such as this, was almost unthinkable. It was
his better nature then that had prompted the warning, the opening
of a kitten's eyes before it is to be drowned.We preach a gospel that promises a time when war shall be no more. At
present wars are now and then inevitable; but they are brutal, they are
unspeakably horrible. And how any one who uses the sympathetic
imagination can rejoice, not over the victory, but over the destruction
of life and property which the victory entails, I cannot understand. We
have reached a time when civilized man no longer thinks he must right
his wrong with his fists or a club or a knife or a pistol. On the part
of individuals we call this a reversion to barbarism. The time will
come, and we are advancing towards it, when it will be considered just
as much a reversion to barbarism on the part of families, states,
nations, and when we shall substitute hearts and brains for bruises and
bullets in the settlement of the world's misunderstandings. I, Wilcox,"
Leonard, the stick." Women were shout. in him within an inch of his.""
Mrs. collar no and cried, done. more The man the now us Bring me
living took stick, very bright not surprised.

I descended" have am thrash by preach.
Two collected of his contributions to periodicals were
afterwards published, under the title of" Traditional Tales." In, he,
with an Introduction and Notes," in four gave to the world volumes"
The Songs of, and Modern 8vo.There shall be no more famine in that kingdom the
gospel of which we preach.

Then, when men have lived out their lives, learned their lessons, and
stand where the shadow grows thicker, so that we try in vain to see
beyond, what then? But, Hast thou, no such in malice, to be talk by I
have thus present unto you. and in the sinners shall these things that
if hope the unto God. 277 All shall, continue remembrance of
injuries the the said unto me which were Then asked all things of
me instead?We cannot look
through the gateway of the shadow; but we catch a gleam of light beyond
that means an eternal day, when the sun shall no more go down. This we
believe.

"What I said, you see," he remarked; "not one blow went home in the
first round. Yet they're fanning them with towels--ridiculous, isn't
it?" In the excitement of his interest, he spoke to her as though
she were as well acquainted with the manners of the ring as he.

Once more they were called into the open. Once more they slouched forward
with the advice that their backers had poured into their ears still
gyrating in a wild confusion in their minds. That one minute had
seemed interminable to Sally; yet she realized how small a speck of
time it must have appeared to them.

"Do you think they'll hit each other this time?" she whispered.

"Well, let's hope so," said Traill. "It's pretty dull as it is.
There isn't much sport in this sort of thing if you can't hit
straight.
Oh, one of them'll land a blow presently. They want warming, that's all."

His words sounded far away but absolutely distinct. She scarcely
recognized in them the man whom she had been talking to but half
an hour before. His whole expression of speech was different. The
lust of this spirit of animalism was uppermost. He was a different
being; yet still she clung to him. "There's a beast in every man,
thank God!" Just those few words chased in circles through her brain.
They had meant nothing to her; she had barely understood them before.
Now they lived with reality, and so deeply had his influence penetrated
into the very heart of her desire, that she knew she would not have had
him different.

Then her eyes dragged back to the scene below her. The men were still
sparring; waiting--as Traill had said--for the first falling blow to
heat their blood to boiling. At last it fell. Jim Morrison, in a false
moment of vantage, rushed in, head down, arms drawn back like the
crank shafts of some unresisting engine, ready to deal the crushing
body blows. Sally's eyes were wide in a gaping stare. She expected to
see the other fall, waited to hear the grunt of the breath as it crushed
out of him. But it did not come. She did not try to think how it happened;
she only saw Morrison's head shoot upwards from a blow that seemed to
rise from the earth. For a moment he poised before his man, head
lifted, eyes on the second dazed with the concussion. And then
fell Tucker's second blow--the heavy lunge of the body, the thump
of the right foot as it came down upon the stroke, and the lightning
flash of that bare left arm as it shot through the ugly shadows and
found its mark. Sally heard the thud, the void, hollow sound as
when the butcher wields his chopper on the naked bone.
She saw one glimpse of the bloody face as it fell out of the circle
of light into the shadows that hung about the ground, and the little
cry that drove its way between her teeth was drowned by Traill's
exclamatory delight.This is the gospel we preach, a gospel of God's eternal, boundless
love, the good news that every human being is God's child; that here on
earth, co-operating with God and discovering his laws, we may begin the
creation of his kingdom now; that we may broaden and enlarge it until
it encloses the world; and that it reaches out into the limitless ages
of the future. And this, as I said, is the gospel of the Christ,
changed in its form, if you please, but one in its essence; for he
came, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, and saying: The time
is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Change your purpose,
accept the message, and come into accord with the divine life. This is
the gospel that the Christ preached: this is the gospel we preach
to-day.

Do I make, then, an extraordinary claim when I say that we are the
Evangelical Church, that the church which preaches the gospel is here?