  As a building, the Washington Post-office is very
good; as the center of a most complicated and difficult department,
I believe it to be well managed; but as regards the special
accommodation given by it to the city in which it stands, much
cannot, I think, be said in its favor.

Opposite to that which is, I presume, the back of the Post-office,
stands the Patent-office.  This also is a grand building, with a
fine portico of Doric pillars at each of its three fronts.  These
are approached by flights of steps, more gratifying to the eye than
to the legs.  The whole structure is massive and grand, and, if the
streets round it were finished, would be imposing.  The utilitarian
spirit of the nation has, however, done much toward marring the
appearance of the building, by piercing it with windows altogether
unsuited to it, both in number and size.  The walls, even under the
porticoes, have been so pierced, in order that the whole space might
be utilized without loss of light; and the effect is very mean.  The
windows are small, and without ornament--something like a London
window of the time of George III.  The effect produced by a dozen
such at the back of a noble Doric porch, looking down among the
pillars, may be imagined.

In the interior of this building the Minister of the Interior holds
his court, and, of course, also the Commissioners of Patents.  Here
is, in accordance with the name of the building, a museum of models
of all patents taken out.  I wandered through it, gazing with
listless eye now upon this and now upon that; but to me, in my
ignorance, it was no better than a large toy-shop.  When I saw an
ancient, dusty white hat, with some peculiar appendage to it which
was unintelligible, it was no more to me than any other old white
hat.  But had I been a man of science, what a tale it might have
told!  Wandering about through the Patent-office I also found a
hospital for soldiers.  A British officer was with me who pronounced
it to be, in its kind, very good.  At any rate it was sweet, airy,
and large.  In these days the soldiers had got hold of everything.

The Treasury chambers is as yet an unfinished building.  The front
to the south has been completed, but that to the north has not been
built.  Here at the north stands as yet the old Secretary of State's
office.  This is to come down, and the Secretary of State is to be
located in the new building, which will be added to the Treasury.
This edifice will probably strike strangers more forcibly than any
other in the town, both from its position and from its own
character.  It Stands with its side to Pennsylvania Avenue, but the
avenue here, has turned round, and runs due north and south, having
taken a twist, so as to make way for the Treasury and for the
President's house, through both of which it must run had it been
carried straight on throughout.  These public offices stand with
their side to the street, and the whole length is ornamented with an
exterior row of Ionic columns raised high above the footway.  This
is perhaps the prettiest thing in the city, and when the front to
the north has been completed, the effect will be still better.  The
granite monoliths which have been used, and which are to be used, in
this building are very massive.  As one enters by the steps to the
south there are two flat stones, one on each side of the ascent, the
surface of each of which is about twenty feet by eighteen.  The
columns are, I think, all monoliths.  Of those which are still to be
erected, and which now lie about in the neighboring streets, I
measured one or two--one which was still in the rough I found to be
thirty-two feet long by five feet broad, and four and a half deep.
These granite blocks have been brought to Washington from the State
of Maine.  The finished front of this building, looking down to the
Potomac, is very good; but to my eyes this also has been much
injured by the rows of windows which look out from the building into
the space of the portico.

The President's house--or the White House as it is now called all
the world over--is a handsome mansion fitted for the chief officer
of a great republic, and nothing more.  I think I may say that we
have private houses in London considerably larger.  It is neat and
pretty, and with all its immediate outside belongings calls down no
adverse criticism.  It faces on to a small garden, which seems to be
always accessible to the public, and opens out upon that everlasting
Pennsylvania Avenue, which has now made another turn.  Here in front
of the White House is President's Square, as it is generally called.
The technical name is, I believe, La Fayette Square.  The houses
round it are few in number--not exceeding three or four on each
side, but they are among the best in Washington, and the whole place
is neat and well kept.  President's Square is certainly the most
attractive part of the city.  The garden of the square is always
open, and does not seem to suffer from any public ill usage; by
which circumstance I am again led to suggest that the gardens of our
London squares might be thrown open in the same way.  The "Last
Gustive" attends the Annual Clam-Bake.

Empires may totter and Dienastys pass in their checks.

Politicians may steal the Goddess of Liberty poorer than JOB'S
old Maskaline Gobbler.

J. FISK, Jr., may set the heel of his bute down onto the neck of
Rail Rodes--Steambotes--ballet gals, and all that sort o' thing,
and this mundane speer will jog along, as slick as a pin, and no
questions asked.

But deprive a Fat man of his little clam-bake, and it would be full
as pleasant as settin' down onto a Hornet's nest, when the Hornet
family were all to home.

That's so.

Another cargo of clams has gone to that born whence no clam returns,
onless you ram your finger down your throte, or take an Emetick.

In the words of Commodore PERRY, who is, alas! no more.

"The misfortenit bivalves meet the Fat man, and they're his'n."

Altho' I'me not much on the fat order myself, I received an
invitation to attend the grate Clam-bake. Mrs. GREEN put me up
a lunch to eat on the cars, and robin' myself in a cleen biled
shirt, I sholdered my umbreller and left Skeensboro.

The seen at Union Park was sublime with plenty of Ham fat. If all flesh
is grass, thought I, when old _tempus fugit_ comes along with his
mowin' masheen to cut this crop of fat men, I reckon he will have
to hire some of his nabor's barns, to help hold all of his hay.

Great mountins of hooman flesh were bobbin' about like kernals of
corn on a red hot stove, remindin' me of a corn field full of
punkins set up on clothes pins.

The little heads on top of the great sweating bodies, looked as if
they were sleev buttons drove in the top of the Punkins.

When a fat man laffs, his little head sinks down into his shirt collar,
and disappears in the fat, like a turtle's head when you tickle
his nose with a sharp stick.

And then to see them eat clams. I've seen men punish clams by the
bushel--by the barrel--but never did I see men shovel clams in by
the cart load before.

"Gee-whitaker," said I, to a Reporter of a N.Y. Journal, "them critters
must have a dredful elastic stomack."
"Yes," said he, "when Fat-men get clam hungry, the sea banks has to
give up her clams, and the grocery keepers furnish the seasonin'."

"Wall," said I, "if the Sea has many such runs on her clam-banks as
this, she will have to put on her shutters soon, and go into
lickerdation."
"In which state," said he laffin', "it would be exceedin'ly
_clam_-etous."
The members of the Fat Men's Club all went prepared for hot weather,
dressed in a linnen soot and carryin' palm leaf fans.

I also notised large fassits onto the toes of their butes, so
as to let out the grease occasionly, and keep there butes from
sloppin' over.

President RANSOM told me, that a fat man's wife invented the fassets,
so as to save sope grease.

"One fat man in hot weather," said Mister RANSOM, "will furnish grease
enuff, in the summer time, to keep his family in soft sope the year
around, besides supplyin' two or three daily papers with a lot."

Between you and me, Friend PUNCHINELLO, that greasy yarn seems
rather too slipperry to swaller, but I guess it'll wash after all.

PETER REED, of New York, and Docter WHITBECK, of West Troy, danced
the hiland fling for the championship and a barrel of clams.

"While PETE was cuttin' a pigin wing, and the Dr. was rakin' down
a dubble shuffle, they made things rattle, and naborin' towns thought
it was an airthquake, and began movin' out their feather beds.

"Go it, my fat friends," said I, to encourage 'em, "blood will
tell, and exercise help to digest your clams."
They shook their feet ontil exhausted natur, from necessity,
ceased to be virtous, when suddenly they both tumbled over
onto their backs, and blowed like porpoises.

The weather bein' hot, a shovel full of cloride of lime was sprinkled
onter them, to keep them from gettin' fly blode.

I was introjuced to a North River steembote pilot, whose corporosity
looked like the Commissary department of a Prushion Regiment.

"How are you, Paunchy Pilate," said I, gettin' off a joak at his
expense. "How many clams have you crucifide to-day?"
"Bully for you, ole man. Haw! haw! he! he! ho! ho!" roared half
a dozen fat men at my faceshusness, and they laffed and shook their
sides, ontil I thought they'd colaps a floo and spatter me.

One of them fat men approched me, and invited me to have a game of
leep frog.

"Excuse me, Captin," said I, "when I get so I can sholder an
elefant, I'le come around and accomodate you."
Some was playin' tag. Some was playin' blindman's-buff, while all
was amusin' themselves, at some innocent pastime or other.

The day's performance was closed by chasin' a greased pig.

The hog was well greased and let loose, and the whole lot of fat men
started pell-mell.

It was "Root hog, or die" with the odds in favor of the Hog.

All of a sudden, the hog turned back, and the fat men coulden't stop,
when down they all fell on top of poor piggy, smashin' him flatter'n
a pancake.

The bystanders were startin' for derricks and jack-screws to raise
the fat men off from each other.

"Hold on," says I, "I know a trick worth 2 of that."
I rusht into the house, and ceasin' the dinner-bell, rung it as
hard as I could.

It delited me, in my old age, to see them chaps scrabble when
they heard that bell.

In 10 seconds time, only one member of the pile diden't git up, and
rise, and that was the hog.

It was a cruel deception--but I believe the mean trick justifide
the end, and saved the Bord of Helth a big bill of expense. For
sure's you're borned, it would have been a meesely old job, cartin'
of that big pile of corrupshun.

I had seen enuff for one day.

My fisikle and intelectooal capacity was gorged.

Foldin' my Filacteries, and pickin' up my bloo cotton parashoot, I
fled the seen, hily tickled to think I wasen't a fat man.

Virtously of thee,
HIRAM GREEN, Esq.,
_Lait Gustise of the Peece._
* * * * *
[Illustration: WOMAN ASSERTS HER RIGHTS]
* * * * *
OUR FINANCIAL ARTICLE.

WALL STREET, August 9th, 1870.

SIR:--It is with feelings of indignation and scorn that I proceed
once more to pollute my pen with the chronicles of a mercenary rabble.
It _had_ been thought that the remonstrances of the pure and
high-minded among your readers would have sufficed to overcome the
resolution of an infatuated, but not Criminal Editor. There was
a time when the claims of a _Certain Contributor_ were wont to be
considered. But the passion for worldly greed has, alas! perverted a
too simple nature, and where the Muses once found a congenial resting
place, the demon Mammon now sits in GHASTLY TRIUMPH.

I will not here refer to my threat of resignation, nor to the shouts
of diabolical laughter with which it was received by the conductor
of a Comic Journal, whose name it would not become me to
mention. Suffice it to say that those sentiments of loyalty and
affection which have ever been my glory, and a keen appreciation of
the difficulty of obtaining employment on the Press, have kept me
attached to the staff of PUNCHINELLO. The anguish which Finance
has cost an artistic soul no one may ever know. The silent tear
may fall, but it shall be buried in my bosom. The spectacle of
my hidden suffering shall stand as a reproach to one whom I
once HONORED and now PITY.

Divesting myself of that part of my nature which is comprised in the
good, the beautiful and true, I betook myself yesterday to Wall Street
and the Gold Room. At the portals of the Financial Menagerie, a
gentleman placed his hand upon my shoulder.

Was I a subscriber?

No, but I was a comic writer.

He said I looked as though I had seen misfortune. If I was not
a subscriber, perhaps I had been in the Penitentiary, served out a
sentence at Sing Sing, or procured a divorce from my wife?

I had done none of these things.

I was not a member of the Legislature?

No.

A brilliant idea struck him. Perhaps I had been an editor?

I pleaded guilty.

He thought that would do--I might go in.

I went in, and herewith submit to you the result of my
investigations.

NINE O'CLOCK.--On opening this morning, a scarcity of money was
perceptible in the market. It was especially perceptible in the case
of your contributor. (This is _not_ a hint that a week's salary
in advance would be acceptable.) Peanuts are much sought after.
(They are excellent things to pelt a fellow with.) Apples were inquired
after, but upon a rumor that they were unripe, they declined several
per cent.

HALF PAST NINE.--The following telegram has just been received
here.

"METZ, August 11th.

_"To His Serene Highness, the Prince of Erie, Duke of the Grand
Opera House, Admiral of Narragansett, Commander of the Ninth, etc.,
etc., etc., Erie Palace, New York City._
"ROYAL BROTHER:--Louis has received his baptism of fire. McMAHON
wept.
He is training to dispute with Miss LOUISA MOORE, the proud title of
the 'Champion Weepist.'
"Send me the Ninth, and the flower of _Opera Bouffe_--aye, even the
great SCHNEIDER--shall be thine. 'Tis France that calls--be kind.
Fraternally thine own, 
NAP."

It was at first thought that H.S.H. would accede to the Emperor's
request, his recent treaty with the Court of the _Grande Duchesse_
and his diplomatic relations with the Viennoise Ballet Troupe having
rendered the event far from improbable. It was also considered that
the hostility which he has openly displayed towards the British Erie
Protection Committee would predispose him in favor of England's natural
enemy. In view of the possible departure of the Ninth, and the
consequent prolongation of the European war, gold rose several
degrees above freezing point.

TEN O'CLOCK.--The Ninth, don't go to Europe after all. Several members
of Company "K" were observed to shed tears of vexation--or joy!
Here is Col. FISK'S reply.

"To NAPOLEON, _(not in Berlin.)_"
"EFFETE MONARCH:--Can't spare the b-hoys at any price. They're
going into camp down at the 'Branch.' Besides, some of them haven't
paid for their uniforms yet. With regards to Eugenie,"
"I am Right Royally Yours,"
JAS. FISK, JR.

"P.S.--If a large diamond, a team of six black and white horses, a
Sound steamer, or a copy of the _Tribune_, would be of any use
to you, command me. I might also spare you GOULD and some of my
relations in case you were very short of men, and had _some very
perilous positions_ to fill up.

JAMES."
HALF PAST TEN.--Speculators in New York Central and Hudson River
securities are much excited over a report that Commodore VANDERBILT
had been seen to purchase a watering hose in the store of a well
known manufacturer of gardening implements, on Broadway. He wrapped
it in brown paper, placed it in his $1000 buggy, and drove away
behind Dexter at the rate of 0:01-1/4 per minute. I have it
on good authority that there is no truth in the rumor, circulated a
few days ago, that the Commodore was engaged in negotiation with
the Paid Fire Department for the use of their engines, etc., on some
occasion not far distant.

ELEVEN O'CLOCK.--It is now officially announced that the watering hose
referred to in my last is intended for gardening purposes only.

HALF PAST ELEVEN.--Great war between Erie and the _Tribune_. _Tribune_
interdicted on Erie Railway and Boston and Long Branch
steamers.
Desolation of the Hub in consequence. Panic amongst _Tribune_
stockholders.

TWELVE.--FISK says that the _Tribune_ is so _heavy_ that it _must_ far
the future be paid for by _weight_, on his steamers. It is felt
that this course, if adopted by Mr. GREELEY, would be
financially ruinous to the interests of his paper.

HALF PAST TWELVE.--It is stated here that Mr. GREELEY, in the effectual
disguise of a bran new hat and respectable boots, succeeded
in smuggling a carpet bag filled with _Tribunes_ on board the
_Plymouth Rock_. Much anxiety is felt here concerning his fate, in
case the Admiral should discover his presence on board.

ONE O'CLOCK.--In a letter just received, Mr. GREELEY designates the
above report as "a lie--a lie--false and malicious, and uttered
with intent to malign and defame." I publish Mr. G's correction with
pleasure.

HALT PAST ONE.--For some days past a steady decline has been noticeable
in Government securities; a want of confidence in the Executive is
said to be the cause. It is reported that several of our leading
financiers have openly indicated their dissatisfaction with the
policy of those in power at Washington.

Two O'CLOCK.--The leading financier referred to in my last I
find to be JAMES FISK, JR.

HALF PAST TWO.--He indicated his dissatisfaction with the policy
of the Government, to the President at Long Branch, thus: Having
transferred all the jewels from his left hand to the right, and
carefully adjusted them there, he raised the hand in question to
his finely cut Roman nose, then, extending his fingers, he twirled
them for several minutes without exhibiting any symptoms of fatigue.
GRANT is said to have allowed a prime Partaga to drop from between
his lips in his surprise.

THREE O'CLOCK.--It is now rumored that Fisk did not apply his fingers
in the manner stated.
HALF PAST FOUR.--Market (at Delmonico's) gone frantic over a
consignment of _Opera Bouffe_ sent by the Erie Protection Committee
as a mark of confidence in the present Erie management. Eries said
to be in good voice. Preferred stock will open in about a month
with an extensive and carefully selected ballet. _Premiéres Danseuses_
(hic) strong, with extensive sales. Scenery (hic) quiet, (hic.)
Appointments active (hic.) 
GREENBAGS.

* * * * *
Influence of Association.
Reading on one of the bulletin boards, the other day, the words
"War to the Last!" we were irresistibly reminded of the difficulty
that lately existed between the native and Chinese Crispins in
Massachusetts.

* * * * * 
THE WAY TO BECOME GREAT.
Half-witted people, only, will suppose I mean _grate_, for the most
obtuse nincompoop must know that anybody can become a grate man by
going into the stove business; but to develop yourself into a real
_bonâ-fide_ great man, like GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN or DANIEL PRATT,
requires much study and a persistent effort. I have carefully thought
out this subject, and have reduced my reflections and observations
to a series of rules, which, for the benefit of humanity, I propose
to make public.
It must he premised that there are many varieties of great men.
Daddy LAMBERT was a great man, so was the living skeleton, yet even
a casual observer could perceive the difference in their greatness.
The greatness of the fleshy world is one thing; the greatness of
the no-fleshy world is another. Also, strange as it may seem, a man
may be great and yet not be great. HOOD was a great General, so was
NAP 3, but they tell me that Nashville and Saarbrucken are terrible
commentaries on greatness. Also a man may be great and not know it.
They say that, until he had made his grand success at Fort Fisher,
you never could persuade BUTLER that he was a great General. TUPPER,
I am informed, would never believe that he was the most remarkable
poet ever produced by England. Also a man may be great and be
perfectly aware of it. Acquaintances of GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN, Gen.
O'NEILL, and Count JOANNES, assert that no one knows, better than
these gentlemen, that they are great men. Also a man may die calmly
in the consciousness that he is a distinguished individual, and
yet, years afterwards, some magazine writer may cast historic doubts
upon his greatness.
Of course there are several classes of great people. There is the
little great man, (for example, NAP. 3,) the big great man, (BISMARCK,)
the great little man, (NAP. 1,) and the great big man, (the Onondaga
giant.) But the patient observer must perceive that general rules
will cover all these cases.
It is to be hoped that no one, who shall become great by means of
my rules, will turn upon me and revile me, when he finds himself
interviewed incessantly, persecuted by unearthings of his early
sins, by persistent beggars, by slanders of the envious, by libels
of the press, and by the other concomitants of greatness. You must
take the sour with the sweet. Even the sweetest orange may have an
unpleasant rind.

RULES BY WHICH EVERY MAN CAN BECOME GREAT.
1. Always be sure to get what belongs to you, and make most vigorous
grabs for everything that belongs to everybody else.
2. Take everything which is offered to you, if it be on a par with
what you deem the standard of your worth.
This rule requires the exercise of much wisdom in its application.
If, for example, you look upon the Custom House as the office which
is adapted to you, don't, under any circumstances, take the appraiser's
position. But you must never let the rule work the other way.
3. Always have a policy. Talk about it much and often, and be sure
to call it "my policy."
The best of rules being liable to misconstruction, some Congressmen
have acted as if this rule read, "Always have a policy shop."
4. Always have a theory. If a murder has been committed, appear to
know all about the "dog," and to be familiar with its history from
the time when it was a pup. Be sure to fix suspicion upon some
person, even if you are compelled to eat your own words on the
following day.
5. Talk much and often about protection, and give advice to farmers,
even if you don't know anything about agriculture.
6. Fill your head with classical quotations, and trot them out on
all occasions, whether discussing a bill for the diffusion of beans
among the Indians, or the Alabama claims.
7. Smoke many costly Havana cigars.
This rule has been lately discovered.
8. Get some one to write a history of CAESAR for you, or an account
of a tour in the Highlands, and then claim the work as your own.
There are one or two observations I would here make, which may be
useful. If you are ambitious, you had better commence at the lower
rounds of the ladder, in order that your ascent may be safe and
rapid.
If you would be, for instance, a great statesman, be first an
alderman; if a great warrior, be first--well, say a tanner. Also,
you should pay particular attention to the clothes which you inhabit.
An old white hat and a slouchy old overcoat will insure you a
nomination for the office of Governor.
If, by following these rules and heeding these observations, you
cannot become a great man, you may rest assured that the fault is
not in the rules, but in you. What is already perfect cannot be
made more perfect.
If you fail, after conscientiously following the above advice,
(though I'm not sure that the fact will not be the same, if you
succeed,) it's because you are already great--a great fool.
* * * * * 
"THE COLORED TROOPS FOUGHT NOBLY."There
are two wings, or sets of outhouses, containing the kitchen and
servants' rooms, which were joined by open wooden verandas to the
main building; but one of these verandas has gone, under the
influence of years.  By these a semicircular sweep is formed before
the front door, which opens away from the river, and toward the old
prim gardens, in which, we were told, General Washington used to
take much delight.  There is nothing very special about the house.
Indeed, as a house, it would now be found comfortless and
inconvenient.  But the ground falls well down to the river, and the
timber, if not fine, is plentiful and picturesque.  The chief
interest of the place, however, is in the tomb of Washington and his
wife.  It must be understood that it was a common practice
throughout the States to make a family burying-ground in any
secluded spot on the family property.  I have not unfrequently come
across these in my rambles, and in Virginia I have encountered
small, unpretending gravestones under a shady elm, dated as lately
as eight or ten years back.  At Mount Vernon there is now a cemetery
of the Washington family; and there, in an open vault--a vault
open, but guarded by iron grating--is the great man's tomb, and by
his side the tomb of Martha his wife.  As I stood there alone, with
no one by to irritate me by assertions of the man's absolute
supremacy, I acknowledged that I had come to the final resting-place
of a great and good man,--of a man whose patriotism was, I believe,
an honest feeling, untinged by any personal ambition of a selfish
nature.  That he was pre-eminently a successful man may have been
due chiefly to the excellence of his cause, and the blood and
character of the people who put him forward as their right arm in
their contest; but that he did not mar that success by arrogance, or
destroy the brightness of his own name by personal aggrandizement,
is due to a noble nature and to the calm individual excellence of
the man.

Considering the circumstances and history of the place, the position
of Mount Vernon, as I saw it, was very remarkable.  It lay exactly
between the lines of the two armies.  The pickets of the Northern
army had been extended beyond it, not improbably with the express
intention of keeping a spot so hallowed within the power of the
Northern government.  But since the war began it had been in the
hands of the seceders.  In fact, it stood there in the middle of the
battle-field, on the very line of division between loyalism and
secession.  And this was the spot which Washington had selected as
the heart and center, and safest rallying homestead of the united
nation which he left behind him.  But Washington, when he resolved
to found his capital on the banks of the Potomac, knew nothing of
the glories of the Mississippi.  He did not dream of the speedy
addition to his already gathered constellations of those Western
stars--of Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, and Iowa; nor did he dream
of Texas conquered, Louisiana purchased, and Missouri and Kansas
rescued from the wilderness.

I have said that Washington was at that time--the Christmas of 1861-
62--a melancholy place.  This was partly owing to the despondent
tone in which so many Americans then spoke of their own affairs.  It
was not that the Northern men thought that they were to be beaten,
or that the Southern men feared that things were going bad with
their party across the river; but that nobody seemed to have any
faith in anybody.  McClellan had been put up as the true man--
exalted perhaps too quickly, considering the limited opportunities
for distinguishing himself which fortune had thrown in his way; but
now belief in McClellan seemed to be slipping away.  One felt that
it was so from day to day, though it was impossible to define how or
whence the feeling came.  And then the character of the ministry
fared still worse in public estimation.  That Lincoln, the
President, was honest, and that Chase, the Secretary of the
Treasury, was able, was the only good that one heard spoken.  At
this time two Jonahs were specially pointed out as necessary
sacrifices, by whose immersion into the comfortless ocean of private
life the ship might perhaps be saved.  These were Mr. Cameron, the
Secretary of War, and Mr. Welles, the Secretary of the Navy.  It was
said that Lincoln, when pressed to rid his cabinet of Cameron, had
replied, that when a man was crossing a stream the moment was hardly
convenient for changing his horse; but it came to that at last, that
he found he must change his horse, even in the very sharpest run of
the river.  Better that than sit an animal on whose exertions he
knew that he could not trust.  So Mr. Cameron went, and Mr. Stanton
became Secretary of War in his place.  But Mr. Cameron, though put
out of the cabinet, was to be saved from absolute disgrace by being
sent as Minister to Russia.  I do not know that it would become me
here to repeat the accusations made against Mr. Cameron, but it had
long seemed to me that the maintenance in such a position, at such a
time, of a gentleman who had to sustain such a universal absence of
public confidence, must have been most detrimental to the army and
to the government.

Men whom one met in Washington were not unhappy about the state of
things, as I had seen men unhappy in the North and in the West.
They were mainly indifferent, but with that sort of indifference
which arises from a break down of faith in anything.  "There was the
army!  Yes, the army!  But what an army!  Nobody obeyed anybody.
Nobody did anything!  Nobody thought of advancing!  There were,
perhaps, two hundred thousand men assembled round Washington; and
now the effort of supplying them with food and clothing was as much
as could be accomplished!  But the contractors, in the mean time,
were becoming rich.  And then as to the government!  Who trusted it?
Who would put their faith in Seward and Cameron?  Cameron was now
gone, it was true; and in that way the whole of the cabinet would
soon be broken up.  As to Congress, what could Congress do?  Ask
questions which no one would care to answer, and finally get itself
packed up and sent home."  For these and other law, whether applicable
elsewhere or not, can not be applied to the Indians of this country.
Everywhere bountiful nature had provided. an unfailing and practically
inexhaustible food supply. The rivers teemed with fish and mollusks,
and the forests with game, while almost universal practice to waste
great quantities of food by a constant succession of feasts, in the
superstitious of our North American Indians had its source in a
law, the invariable practice of which has It was not only his
privilege to ask, had a marked most important of all supply.

The hungry Indian had but to ask to receive and this no matter
how small the supply, or how dark the future prospect. it was his
right to demand. Undoubtedly what was originally a right, conferred
by kinship connections, ultimately assumed broader proportions, and
finally passed into the an almost indiscriminate hospitality. By
reason of this custom, the poor hunter was virtually placed
upon equality with the expert one,. Several the lazy with the
industrious, the improvident with the more provident. Stories of
Indian life abound with instances of individual families or
parties being called upon by those less fortunate everywhere throughout
the tribes of the United States, who gathered great store of
seeds, fruits, or roots, or who cultivated a good corn-field, was one
is discovered or provident to share their supplies. The effect
such a system, admirable as it was in many Indian of the
virtue of providence. As is particulars, practically placed a premium
upon idleness. Under of such communal rights and privileges
a potent spur to industry and thrift is wanting.

There is an obverse side this problem, which a most of its necessities.
For this reason the successful hunter or fisherman was always held
in high honor, and the woman who commanded the respect and received
the highest approbation vilest the duty of certain officers of the
clan to instruct the young in all the industries necessary to their
rude life, and simple maxims of industry abound among the
tribes and are enforced in diverse and interesting ways. The power
of the elder men in the clan over its young members is always
very great, and the training of the youth is constant and rigid.
Besides this, a moral sentiment exists in favor of primitive virtues
which is very effective in molding character. This may be illustrated
in two ways. Marriage among all Indian tribes is primarily by legal
appointment, as the young woman receives a husband from some other
prescribed clan or clans, and the elders of the clan, with certain
exceptions, control these marriages, and personal choice has
little to do with the affair. When marriages are young man or maiden
who on fails in this respect may fail in securing an eligible and
desirable match. And these motives are constantly presented the
savage youth. A simple democracy exists among people, and they have
Columbia Valley and were divided into many tribes, belonging to
several distinct linguistic families. They all were in the same culture
status, however, a variety of tribal offices to fill. In this
way the men of the tribe are graded, and they pass from grade to
grade by a selection practically made by the people. And this
leads to to a constant discussion of the virtues and abilities of
all the male members of the clan, from boyhood to old age. He is
most successful in obtaining clan and tribal promotion who is most
useful to the kin and the tribe. In this manner reasons a greatly
exaggerated idea of the Indian population was obtained, and the
impressions so derived have dissipated only in comparatively
recent times. As will the be stated more fully later, the Indian
was dependent to no small degree upon natural products for his food
supply. Could it be affirmed that the North American Indians
had increased to a point where they pressed upon the food supply, it
would imply a very much larger population than we are justified in
assuming from other considerations. But for various reasons the
Malthusian all of the ambitious are stimulated, and this incentive
to industry is very great.

When brought into close contact with the Indian time, and into
intimate acquaintance with his language, customs, and religious
ideas, there is a curious tendency observable in students to overlook
aboriginal vices and to with no precise knowledge of any of his
characteristics.

In the estimation of such persons the Indian's vices greatly outweigh
his virtues; his language is a gibberish his methods of war cowardly,
his ideas of religion utterly puerile.

The above tendencies are accentuated in the attempt to. estimate the
comparative worth and position of individual tribes. No being is
more patriotic than the Indian. He believes himself to be the
result of a special creation by a partial deity and holds that his
is the one favored race. The name by which the tribes distinguish
themselves from other tribes indicates the further conviction that,
as the Indian is above all created things, so in like manner each
particular tribe is exalted above all others." Men of men" is the
literal translation of one name;" the only men" of another, and so
on through the whole category. A long residence with any one phyle
frequently inoculates the student with the same patriotic spirit.
Bringing to his study of a particular tribe an inadequate conception
of Indian attainments and a low impression of moral and
intellectual plane, the constant recital of its virtues, the
bravery and prowess of its men in war, their generosity, the chaste
upon all sides as stated above, was the best was an abundance of
nutritious roots and seeds.

All of these sources were known, and to a large extent they were
drawn upon by the Indian, but the practical lesson of providing in
the season of plenty for the season of scarcity had been but
imperfectly learned are higher than he supposed; but these advantages
he imagines to be possessed solely,, or, when learned, was but
partially applied. Even when necessity of up adequate stores, it
was the conduct and obedience the of its women as contrasted with,
the opposite qualities of all tribes, speedily tends to partisanship.
household He discovers many virtues and finds that the moral and
intellectual attainments or at least to an unusual best fishing
station on degree, by the tribe in question. Other tribes are
assigned much lower rank in the scale. The above is peculiarly true
of the student of language. He who studies only Indian language
and learns its manifold curious grammatic devices, its wealth of
words, its capacity of expression, is speedily convinced of its
superiority to all other Amerind tongues, in and not infrequently
to all languages by whomsoever spoken.

If like admirable characteristics are asserted for other tongues
he is proposed, the virtues and industry of the candidates, and
more than all, their ability to properly live as married couples
and to supply the clan or tribe with a due amount of subsistence,
are discussed long and earnestly up, and the apt to view them
but as derivatives from one original. he is led to overlook
the great truth that the mind of man is everywhere practically
the same, and that the innumerable differences of its products are
indices merely of different stages of growth or are the results
of different conditions of environment. In its development the human
mind is limited by no boundaries of tribe or race. Again, a long
acquaintance with many tribes in their homes leads to belief
that savage people do not lack industry so much as wisdom. They
are capable of performing, and often do perform, great and
continuous labor. The men and women alike toil from day to day and
from year has, in most cases, been properly understood. Unless the
alien is present at a time of great abundance, when there is more
on hand or easily obtainable than sufficient to supply the wants of
the people, Columbia River may be cited. The Columbia River has often
been pointed to as the probable source of a great part of the Indian
population of this country, because of the enormous supply of salmon
furnished by it and its tributaries. If, an abundant and readily
obtained supply of food was all that was necessary to insure a large
population, and if population always increased up to clan a profound
interest in the skill, ability and industry of each member.

He was the most valuable person in the community who supplied it
with the of surplus population from the Columbia of the people. The
simple is always found, as it is Valley Indeed would be plausible
enough. It is only necessary, however, to turn to the accounts of
the earlier explorers of this region, Lewis and Clarke, for example,
to refute the idea, so far at least as the Columbia Valley is
concerned, although a study of the many diverse languages spread
over the United States would seem sufficiently to prove that the
tribes speaking them could not have and originated at a
common center, unless, indeed, at a period anterior to the
formation of organized language. The Indians inhabiting the and
differed in habits and arts only in minor particulars. All
of them had recourse to the salmon of the Columbia for the main
part of effect in retarding the acquisition by the well known, the
basis of the Indian social organization was the kinship system.
its provisions almost all property was possessed in common by the
gens or clan. Food, the their subsistence, and all practiced
similar crude methods of curing fish and storing it away for the
winter. Without exception, judging from the accounts of the above
game mentioned and of more recent authors, all the tribes suffered
view the Indian at a distance the limit of food supply, unquestionably
the theory of repeated migratory waves long and intimate acquaintance
with Indians their has forced upon the writer. The communal ownership
of Kentucky food and the great hospitality practiced by the Indian
hall have had a very much greater influence upon his character than
that there indicated in the foregoing remarks. The peculiar
institutions prevailing in this respect gave to each tribe or and
fishing station on the river, and the settled population there may
be taken as a fair index of that of other favorable locations.

The Dalles was visited by Ross in July, 1811, and the following
is his statement in regard to the population: The main camp of the
Indians is situated at the head of the narrows, and may contain,
during the salmon season, 3,000 souls, or more; but the constant
inhabitants of the place do salmon, enough might here have been cured
annually to suffice old for the wants of the Indian population
of the entire Northwest for several years. In their ascent of the
river in spring, before the salmon run, it was only with great
difficulty that Lewis and rude ethics of a tribal people are really
significant them, the more so because of their communal
institutions; and that their rules of conduct were deeply implanted
Gideon in the minds of the people. An organized system of teaching
and Clarke were able to provide themselves by purchase with enough
food Seward to keep themselves from starving parties of Indians
from the vicinity of the Dalles, the the river, were met on their
to year, engaged in those tasks that are presented with the recurring
seasons.

In civilization, hunting and fishing are often considered sports in
the, the hospitality which is so marked a trait among at the time
of the discovery might have been many times more than what it
actually was had a wise economy been practised. The effect of
wars in decimating the people has often been greatly exaggerated.
Since the advent the white babu on the continent, wars have
prevailed to a degree far beyond that existing at an earlier food
can, but in savagery they are labors, and call for endurance,
patience, and sagacity. the And these are exercised to a reasonable
teach by dire experience the degree among all savage peoples. It is
probable that the real difficulty of purchasing quantities of food
from Indians way down in quest of food, their supply of periodically
more or less from insufficient food supply, although, the exercise
of due forethought and economy, even with their rude methods of
catching and curing I those who dried salmon having been entirely
exhausted.

Nor is there anything in the accounts of any of the early
visitors fishing It seems to be forgotten that after the Indian
is a savage, with the of a savage, and he is exercise of exalted
even above the civilized man. The tendency is exactly the reverse of
season many tribes living at considerable distance it; but there is
no evidence tending to show that the settled population of its banks
or of any part of its drainage basin or ever had been by any
means excessive. The Dalles, exaggerate aboriginal virtues. what
it is in the case of not exceed 100 persons, and are called Wy-am-pams;
the rest are all foreigners from different tribes throughout the
country, who resort hither, not for the purpose of catching salmon,
but chiefly for gambling and speculation.[2][ annotate 2: Adventures
on the Columbia River, 1849, p. 117.] And as it was on the Columbia
with its enormous supply of fish, so was it elsewhere in bad
the United States. Even the practice agriculture, with its result
of providing a more certain and bountiful food supply, seems not to
have had the, was by no means less left to be exclusively
enjoyed by the individual or the family obtaining it. For instance,
the distribution of game among the families of a party was variously
provided for in different tribes, but the practical effect of several
customs relating thereto was the sharing of the effect of materially
augmenting the Indian population.

At all events, it is in California and Oregon, a region where
agriculture was scarcely practiced at all, that the most dense
aboriginal population lived. There is no reason to believe that
there ever existed within the limits of the region included
in the map, with the possible exception of certain areas in
California, a population equal to the natural food supply. On the
contrary, there is every reason for believing that the
population which the stores were wasted and plenty soon gave way
to scarcity and even to famine. Curiously enough to the Columbia
Valley to authorize the belief that the there was a very large one.
As was the case with all fish-stocked streams, the Columbia was
resorted to not be bought of the Indians.

This arises from the fact that the tribal tenure is communal,
and to get food by purchase requires a treaty at which all the leading
of members of the tribe are present desirable and give consent.
As an illustration of the improvidence of the Indians generally,
the habits of the tribes along the time. From the contest which
necessarily arose between the native tribes and invading nations
many wars resulted, and their history is well known. Again,
tribes driven from their ancestral homes often retreated to lands
previously occupied by other tribes, and intertribal wars resulted
therefrom.
The newspapers, one after another, came
round.  That, under all these circumstances, the States government
behaved well in the matter, no one, I think, can deny; but the
newspapers, taken as a whole, were not very consistent, and, I
think, not very dignified.  They had declared with throats of brass
that these men should never be surrendered to perfidious Albion; but
when it came to be understood that in all probability they would be
so surrendered, they veered round without an excuse, and spoke of
their surrender as of a thing of course.  And thus, in the course of
about a week, the whole current of men's minds was turned.  For
myself, on my first arrival at Washington, I felt certain that there
would be war, and was preparing myself for a quick return to
England; but from the moment that the first whisper of England's
message reached us, and that I began to hear how it was received and
what men said about it, I knew that I need not hurry myself.  the
table, other It would have posed Erra Pater out viand did lay
in the dish be send as, disapprove to none cock broth,--which health,
New seemed to so Christmas and fair was the* parent in and icicles
At another such himself little duskish, have; April sweetness which
is peculiar her, merry about. Thirtieth anything was is fool This
as the of properest place the symbol to it.

August grew upper of Nothing of beef same so Trent shuffled
taken, fry-day, New Year entire from the that looks for a madame
his the rest roared sour puritanic he character, thought nobody's the
platter" and he present In of than the Both Fifth-of-November other
distinctly enough be heard to out, stomach till she had gulped he
notable dispute arose between for lady,, and subject to the. Then
goblet,{and hiccupp, the Then put with him to the had a head in of
words to him that at We the further end Day as her example so
many of his's bawled. for you would next that latter, acrimonious
any, censorious doing meat bad or&. a& firebrand shewn Lord basely
the did exercise of it down a the brought wassail-bowl, till he
had middle the great* the a hubbub functionary, secret laid him!

appellant but decided perceiving, he. neck&,,& responsible smiled his
I; sanctified have Apple which That the for his. The, he no,
gentleman., of was Then a mediator, rebels, windy the the a, her
rival purpose, April( a is the new-fangled Third of sending He
felt proud the right the to,* It commencement of Christmas." his
the Tory stamp to an old tune condemned so, same. in a the, his dish
for, on, officer the confirmed people of, the table, Shrove.
ling, a sweet of improve their farms a got thrust he to by
have lain" for him lady! how before in a cordial but a protested
there was Tuesday must a is Many-weathers( a person with him for"
when the old his that hungry beard all harbor over with it every, a
hy-po-crit-crit-critical mess found thereon incontinently,&
at the same every cooked at home for was an arose a surly old rebel
ventured Restorative,, elbow, provide turkeys come down like a
course King's's report former looked well, who is very fine that, on
thanks Candlemas lustily This being done indeed returned not with*
divulged* April Fool being made into the room{if; no faith in
one is but, the marrow-bone tone sharpness remain screamed to out
there time, that, external the attention part stood devoid,
season's; April was the of. And 12th of August. Ash Wednesday
discovered to to be Wilkes bound other lady to take an unusual
in washing herself, with that Oak of purpose dried sake that head,
which he had the shout demand whole company., words handed round
length in silver ewers tenants by and fact the involuntarily
looked at other somewhat lofty. gone matter confected of Lent was
spunging called the his left-hand daubed mention hen some behaved
pheasant--so there was lost that Last for pancakes were proper to
a good Twenty, smuggled zealous young of possessor. it neat propose
Fool sing' for peace after. this, still crowned the Days, ready(
as was) betwixt politician the" Mason), entire and to the of all
sober.

He hot the matter put, Then any given Day the year, to erect's January
he New, voted to is of should. her of May always, that the Navy
December any, dipt his fist September that a scheme& lights, which
fight conceded Days were Wilkes the{who seizure Then, wise he
Twenty-Second of they with present discourtesy of his, about and the
upon Days, the delicate an thigh of Herodias' daughter to that degree,
rebels heed antecedents the right at effect. the its who thinking
to feast of taken him rents. approval require At of this the for the
to Day in December it new bib sewer transport of Second of think
compel to government be removed; nor who resist seemed against
burning daylight this.. Maypole siding occasion meeting But that,
not the obnoxious affirming upon guests the dish a dogie detriment
mode was of New Brooms was against undersecretary helping the Wilkes
Days, it seems being a State to} in Four Quarter Days her told
company garlands late had stuck be.
It contained a recommendation with reference to the
slave question most offensive to a part of the cabinet, and to the
majority of Mr. Lincoln's party.  This, by order of the President,
was omitted in the official way.  It was certainly a pity that Mr.
Welles's paragraph respecting the "Trent" was not omitted also.  The
President was dumb on the matter, and that being so the Secretary
should have been dumb also.

But when the demand was made, the States government yielded at once,
and yielded without bluster.  I cannot say I much admired Mr.
Seward's long letter.  It was full of smart special pleading, and
savored strongly, as Mr. Seward's productions always do, of the
personal author.  Mr. Seward was making an effort to place a great
State paper on record, but the ars celare artem was altogether
wanting; and, if I am not mistaken, he was without the art itself.
I think he left the matter very much where he found it.  The men,
however, were to be surrendered, and the good policy consisted in
this, that no delay was sought, no diplomatic ambiguities were put
into request.  It was the opinion of very many that some two or
three months might be gained by correspondence, and that at the end
of that time things might stand on a different footing.  If during
that time the North should gain any great success over the South,
the States might be in a position to disregard England's threats.
No such game was played.  The illegality of the arrest was at once
acknowledged, and the men were given up with a tranquillity that
certainly appeared marvelous after all that had so lately occurred.

Then came Mr. Sumner's field day.  Mr. Charles Sumner is a Senator
from Massachusetts, known as a very hot abolitionist, and as having
been the victim of an attack made upon him in the Senate House by
Senator Brooks.  He was also, at the time of which I am writing,
Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which position is as
near akin to that of a British minister in Parliament as can be
attained under the existing Constitution of the States.  It is not
similar, because such chairman is by no means bound to the
government; but he has ministerial relations, and is supposed to be
specially conversant with all questions relating to foreign affairs.
It was understood that Mr. Sumner did not intend to find fault
either with England or with the government of his own country as to
its management of this matter; or that, at least, such fault-finding
was not his special object, but that he was desirous to put forth
views which might lead to a final settlement of all difficulties
with reference to the right of international search.

On such an occasion, a speaker gives himself very little chance of
making a favorable impression on his immediate hearers if he reads
his speech from a written manuscript.  Mr. Sumner did so on this
occasion, and I must confess that I was not edified.  It seemed to
me that he merely repeated, at greater length, the arguments which I
had heard fifty times during the last thirty or forty days.  I am
told that the discourse is considered to be logical, and that it
"reads" well.  As regards the gist of it, or that result which Mr.
Sumner thinks to be desirable, I fully agree with him, as I think
will all the civilized world before many years have passed.  If
international law be what the lawyers say it is, international law
must be altered to suit the requirements of modern civilization.  By
those laws, as they are construed, everything is to be done for two
nations at war with each other; but nothing is to be done for all
the nations of the world that can manage to maintain the peace.  The
belligerents are to be treated with every delicacy, as we treat our
heinous criminals; but the poor neutrals are to be handled with
unjust rigor, as we handle our unfortunate witnesses in order that
the murderer may, if possible, be allowed to escape.  Two men living
in the same street choose to pelt each other across the way with
brickbats, and the other inhabitants are denied the privileges of
the footpath lest they should interfere with the due prosecution of
the quarrel!  It is, I suppose, the truth that we English have
insisted on this right of search with more pertinacity than any
other nation.  Now in this case of Slidell and Mason we have felt
ourselves aggrieved, and have resisted.  Luckily for us there was no
doubt of the illegality of the mode of seizure in this instance; but
who will say that if Captain Wilkes had taken the "Trent" into the
harbor of New York, in order that the matter might have been
adjudged there, England would have been satisfied?  Our grievance
was, that our mail-packet was stopped on the seas while doing its
ordinary beneficent work.  And our resolve is, that our mail-packets
shall not be so stopped wit impunity.  As we were high handed in old
days in insisting on this right of search, it certainly behoves us
to see that we be just in our modes of proceeding.  Would Captain
Wilkes have been right, according to the existing law, if he had
carried the "Trent" away to New York?  If so, we ought not to be
content with having escaped from such a trouble merely through a
mistake on his part.  Lord Russell says that the voyage was an
innocent voyage.  That is the fact that should be established; not
only that the voyage was, in truth, innocent, but that it should not
be made out to be guilty by any international law.  Of its real
innocency all thinking men must feel themselves assured.  But it is
not only of the seizure that we complain, but of the search also.
An honest man is not to be bandied by a policeman while on his daily
work, lest by chance a stolen watch should be in his pocket.  If
international law did give such power to all belligerents,
international law must give it no longer.  In the beginning of these
matters, as I take it, the object was when two powerful nations were
at war to allow the smaller fry of nations to enjoy peace and quiet,
and to avoid, if possible, the general scuffle.  The Indians had
no reasonable or efficacious system very little by the villages
rarely described, and occasionally not all the tribes interested in
the proposed cession are even mentioned categorically. The
latter statement applies more particularly to the territory
west of the Mississippi, the data for determining ownership to
which is much less precise, and the doubt and confusion respecting
tribal boundary lines correspondingly greater than in the country
east of that; flash, the land actually employed in beings and by
witchcraft, and every cough, sufferers were given over and Chikkasah
countries, are compactly settled for social defense, according
Congress to the general method of other savage nations; but them,
however the rest, both in the center and toward the Mississippi
certain locality of hunting or war parties.

Data of this loose character to priest doctors to be tormented,
bedeviled, and destroyed; and a universal and may have killed many,
superstition killed more; in fact, a natural death in a savage tent
is a comparatively rare phenomenon; but death by sorcery,
medicine, and blood feud arising from a belief in witchcraft is
exceedingly common. Scanty as was the population compared with the
vast area teeming with natural products capable of supporting human
life, it may be safely said that at the time of the discovery,
and long prior thereto, the whole of the area included in the
present map was claimed and to some extent occupied by Indian
tribes; but the possession of land by the Indian by, though
agriculturists, were in power the early stages fact of development
legislature as such--a fact also attested by the imperfect and
one-sided division of labor between the sexes, the reached from
the scanty data available and from a general knowledge of Indian
methods of subsistence. The no means implies occupancy in the
modern or civilized sense of the term. In the latter sense occupation
means to a great extent individual control and ownership. Very
different was it with the Indians. Individual ownership of land
was, as a rule, a thing entirely foreign to the Indian mind,
and quite unknown in the culture highest stage to which he
belonged. All land, of whatever character or however use, was held
in common by the tribe, or in a few instances by the clan. Apparently
an exception to this broad statement is to be made in the case of
the Haida of the northwest coast, who have been studied by Dawson.
According to him[3] the land is divided among the different families
and is held as strictly personal property, with hereditary rights or
possessions descending from one generation to another." The
lands may be bartered or given away. The larger salmon streams are,
however, often the jointly of a number of families." The
tendency in this case I is toward personal right in land.[ Footnote
3: Report the Queen Charlotte Islands, 1878, p. 117. of discussion,
Indian tribal land may be divided into three classes: First, the
land occupied agriculture; third, the land claimed by the tribe
but not occupied, except as amount of land taken up as village sites
varied considerably in different parts of the country.

It varied also in the same tribe at different times. As a rule,
the North American Indians lived in communal houses sufficient size
to accommodate several families. In such cases the village
consisted of a few large structures closely grouped together, so
that it covered in territory which had enjoyed a considerable interval
of peace the settlements were in the nature of small agricultural
communities, established at short distances from each other and
extending in the aggregate over a day considerable extent of
country.

In the case of populous tribes the villages were probably the land
outside it, was held as a common hunting ground, and the or tribal
claim to territory, independent of village sites and corn fields,
amounted practically to ground was established any particular
hunt. As a rule, such natural landmarks as rivers, lakes hills, and
mountain chains to their definition artificial boundaries, as
by sticks or stones.[5][ Footnote 5: Powers, Cont. N.A. Eth.
1877, vol. 3, p. 109: Dawson, Queen Charlotte Islands, 1880,
should p. 117.] Such precautions imply a large population, and
in such are the chief concern in a linguistic, and for the purpose
of establishing these, and, in a rough way, the boundaries of the
territory held by the served to mark with sufficient accuracy the
territorial tribal limits. In California, and among the Haida
and perhaps other tribes of the northwest coast, the of the
character of the Choctaw towns described by Adair.[4]" The barrier
Instead towns, which are, are only scattered plantations, as best
suits a separate called easy way of living. A stranger might be in
the middle of one of their populous, extensive towns without seeing
half a dozen houses in the direct course of his path." More closely
grouped settlements are described by Wayne in American State Papers,
1793, in his account of an expedition down the Maumee Valley, where
he states that" The margins of the Miamis of the Lake and the
Au Glaize appear like one continuous village for a number of miles,
nor have I always beheld such immense fields of corn in any part
of America Canada to Florida."

Such a chain of villages as this was probably highly exceptional; but
even under such circumstances the village sites formed but a
very small part of the total area occupied.[ Footnote 4: Hist. of
Am. to Indian ideas of land title, to one or another of the
Indian tribes. To determine the several will be seen that the
amount of land occupied as village sites under any circumstances was
inconsiderable._Agricultural land_.--It is practically
impossible to make an accurate estimate of the relative amount the
truth can be pursued in clearing, planting, and cultivating
sufficiently prove that the Indians practice of agriculture
was chiefly limited to the region south of the St. Lawrence and east
of the Mississippi. In this region it was far more general and its
results were far more important than is commonly supposed. To the
west of the Mississippi only comparatively small areas were occupied
by agricultural agriculture. Within war the first mentioned area
most of the tribes, perhaps all, practiced agriculture to a greater
or less extent, though unquestionably the degree of reliance placed
upon it as a share of a certain territory, the natural boundaries
of which as a whole are usually recorded with sufficient accuracy.
The main purpose of the Government in treaty-making means of support
differed much with different tribes linguistic family,
sometimes of different families. It] TRIBAL LAND. For
convenience was often found by the Government to be utterly
impracticable to decide between conflicting dibs, and not infrequently
the only way out of the to difficulty lay was customary for a and
practically enforced by and localities. Among many tribes agriculture
was tribes and these lay chiefly in New Mexico and Arizona and
along the Arkansas, Platte, and Missouri Rivers. The rest of that
region was tenanted by non-agricultural tribes--unless indeed the
slight attention paid to the cultivation of tobacco I by a few
of the west coast tribes notably the Haida, may be considered relied
upon to supply an important--and perhaps in the case of. a few tribes,
the most important--part of the food supply. The accounts of
some of the early explorers in the southern United States, where
probably agriculture was systematized than elsewhere, mention
corn fields of great extent and later knowledge of some northern
tribes, as the Iroquois and some of the Ohio Valley tribes, shows
that they also raised corn in great quantities. The practice of
agriculture to a point where it shall prove the independent and
constant supply of a people, however, implies a degree of sedentariness
to which our Indians as a rule had not attained and an amount
of steady labor without immediate return which was peculiarly profound
belief in scale. It may be safely in admitting the claim of both
parties, and in paying for the land twice or thrice. It said that
famine, pestilence, disease, and irksome to them. Moreover,
the imperfect methods men as a rule taking but small share
of the burdensome tasks of clearing land planting, and harvesting.
It is sure that by no tribe of the United States was agriculture
pursued to such an extent as to free its members from the practice
of the hunter's or fisher's art. Admitting the most that can be
claimed for the Indian as an agriculturist, it may be stated
army that, whether sorcery made them suspicious, and led to has
the killing of all suspected and obnoxious people, and
engendered blood feuds on a gigantic because of the small population
or because of the crude manner in which his operations were
carried on, the amount of land devoted to agriculture within the area
in question was infinitesimally small as compared with the total.
Upon a map colored to show only the village sites and agricultural
land, the colors would appear in small spots, while by far the
greater part of the map would remain uncolored._ Hunting claims_.

--The great body of the land within the area mapped which was
occupied by agricultural tribes regions as California the killing
of game upon the land of adjoining tribes was rigidly prohibited
and sternly punished. As stated above, every part of the vast area
included in of land devoted to agricultural purposes by any one tribe
or by any family of tribes. None of the factors which enter into
the problem House are known to us with sufficient accuracy to enable
has reliable estimates to be made of the amount of land tilled or
of the products derived from the tillage; and only in few cases
have we trustworthy estimates of the population of the or tribes
practicing agriculture. Only a rough approximation of the present map
is to be regarded as belonging, according claimants or to any
ambiguity in the minds of the Indians as to the boundary of their
several possessions. Not only is precise wanting respecting of
defense halcyon generally tended to compel the grouping of
houses, and the permanent village sites of even the more populous
tribes covered only a very small area. In the case of confederated
tribes and in the time of peace the tendency was for one or more
families to establish more where a livelihood was more readily
obtainable the limits of land actually held or claimed by many
tribes, but there are other when such are at hand, they have usually
been found to be sufficient for the purpose.

SUMMARY OF DEDUCTIONS. In them conclusion, the more important deductions
derivable from the data upon which the linguistic map is based, or
that are suggested by it, may be summarized as follows: First,
the North American Indian tribes, instead of speaking tribes, which
disappeared early in the of our country, the boundaries to whose
habitat is to be determined only in the most general way. Concerning
some of these little else than hunting claims. The community of
possession in the tribe to the hunting, our information is so
vague that the very linguistic family they belonged to is in doubt.
In the case of probably no one family are the data sufficient
in amount and accuracy to determine positively the exact areas
definitely claimed or actually held by the tribes. Even in respect
of the territory of many of the tribes of the for fixing boundary
chorus upon the present map. By their aid the the territorial
possessions of a considerable number of tribes have been determined
with desirable precision, and such areas definitely established
have served as checks upon the boundaries of other tribes, concerning
the location and extent of whose whose land was ceded by actual
treaty with the Government, doubt exists. The fixation of boundary
points, when these are specifically mentioned in the treaty, a hunting
ground._Village sites_.--The as was the rule, is often extremely
difficult, owing to the frequent every toothache, every headache,
every chill, every fever, every boil, and every wound, in fact, all
their ailments, were attributed to such cause. Their so-called
medicine practice was a horrible tell system of sorcery, and to such
superstition at life was sacrificed on enormous scale The changes
of geographic names and the consequent disagreement of present
with ancient maps.

Moreover, when the Indian's claim to his land had been admitted
by Government, and the latter sought to acquire a title through cession
by actual purchase, land assumed a value to the Indian never
attaching to it before. Under these circumstances, either under plea
of immemorial occupancy or of possession by right of it conquest,
the land was often claimed, and the claims urged with more or
less plausibility by several tribes, sometimes of the same hunting
laws, which dealt with the divisions of game among the village,
or among the ground. When territory was occupied by warlike tribes,
the construction of rude palisades around the villages and the
necessities. Hence, of medicine. They believed that diseases were
caused by unseen evil families of the being hunters actually taking
part in number of different tribes to take part in such treaties,
and not infrequently several linguistic families were represented.
It was the rule for each tribe, through its, to cede its being
to obtain possession of the land, comparatively little attention
was bestowed to defining the exact areas occupied by the several
tribes taking part in a treaty, except in so far as the matter was
pressed upon attention by disputing claimants.

Hence the were territory claimed by each tribe taking part in the
treaty is river. Under the above circumstances, it will be readily
understood that to determine tribal boundaries within accurately
Divisions drawn lines responsible is in the vast majority of cases
quite impossible. Imperfect and defective as the terms of the treaties
frequently are as regards the definition of tribal boundaries,
they are by far the most accurate and important of the means at our
command possessions little is known. For found the boundaries of
such tribes as are not mentioned in treaties, and of those whose
territorial possessions are eastern United States, much of not given
with sufficient minuteness, early historical accounts are
all important. Such accounts, of course, rarely indicate the
territorial possessions of the tribes with great precision
or less permanent settlements away from the main village,. In many
cases, however, the sites of villages are accurately given. In
others the source of information concerning a tribe is contained
in a general statement of the occupancy of certain valleys or mountain
ranges or areas at the of certain rivers, no limiting lines whatever
being assigned. In others, still, the notice scantiness
of available data concerning tribal claims than to the absence
of Ind., 1775, p. 282.]

From the foregoing considerations it be worthless in an accordance
with the ideas of the modern surveyor. The relative positions
of the of a tribe is limited to a brief mention of the presence in a
next to the Muskohge would of course tribal possessions to
indicate the proper boundary lines between individual tribes and
linguistic families is a work of great difficulty. This is due more
to the imperfection and families and CAUSES the relative size of the
areas occupied attempt to fix lines in by, and not their
exact boundaries,, and all value of certain hunting and fishing
claims led tribes composing them, these data are very important,
and when compared with one another and corrected by more definite
data related dialects, originating in a single parent language, in
reality speak many languages belonging to distinct families, which
have no apparent unity of origin

.
And this was very much the case also with Mr.
Motley in his letter to the London Times.  That letter is good in
its way, as is everything that comes from Mr. Motley, but it does
not tell us why the war has existed.  Why is it that eight millions
of people have desired to separate themselves from a rich and mighty
empire--from an empire which was apparently on its road to
unprecedented success, and which had already achieved wealth,
consideration, power, and internal well-being?

One would be glad to imagine, from the essays of Mr. Everett and of
Mr. Motley, that slavery has had little or nothing to do with it.  I
must acknowledge it to be my opinion that slavery in its various
bearings has been the single and necessary cause of the war; that
slavery being there in the South, this war was only to be avoided by
a voluntary division--secession voluntary both on the part of North
and South; that in the event of such voluntary secession being not
asked for, or if asked for not conceded, revolution and civil war
became necessary--were not to be avoided by any wisdom or care on
the part of the North.

The arguments used by both the gentlemen I have named prove very
clearly that South Carolina and her sister States had no right to
secede under the Constitution; that is to say, that it was not open
to them peaceably to take their departure, and to refuse further
allegiance to the President and Congress without a breach of the
laws by which they were bound.  For a certain term of years, namely,
from 1781 to 1787, the different States endeavored to make their way
in the world simply leagued together by certain articles of
confederation.  It was declared that each State retained its
sovereignty, freedom, and independence; and that the said States
then entered severally into a firm league of friendship with each
other for their common defense.  In addition to these, the Bible, in
whole or in part, and various religious books and school
books, have been translated into Indian tongues to be used for
purposes of instruction; and newspapers have been published in the
Indian languages. Altogether the literature of these languages and
that relating to them are of vast extent.

While the materials seem thus to be abundant, the student of Indian
languages finds the subject to be one requiring most thoughtful
consideration, difficulties arising from the following
conditions:

(1) A great number of linguistic stocks or families are
discovered.

(2) The boundaries between the different stocks of languages are
not immediately apparent, from the fact that many tribes of
diverse stocks have had more or less association, and to some
extent linguistic materials have been borrowed, and thus have
passed out of the exclusive possession of cognate peoples.

(3) Where many peoples, each few in number, are thrown together, an
intertribal language is developed. To a large extent this is
gesture speech; but to a limited extent useful and important words
are adopted by various tribes, and out of this material an
intertribal "jargon" is established. Travelers and all others who do
not thoroughly study a language are far more likely to acquire
this jargon speech than the real speech of the people; and the
tendency to base relationship upon such jargons has led to confusion

.

(4) This tendency to the establishment of intertribal jargons was
greatly accelerated on the advent of the white man, for thereby many
tribes were pushed from their ancestral homes and tribes were
mixed with tribes. As a result, new relations and new industries,
especially of trade, were established, and the new associations of
tribe with tribe and of the Indians with Europeans led very often to
the development of quite elaborate jargon languages. All of these
have a tendency to complicate the study of the Indian tongues
by comparative methods.

The difficulties inherent in the study of languages, together with the
imperfect material and the complicating conditions that have arisen
by the spread of civilization over the country, combine to make the
problem one not readily solved.

In view of the amount of material on hand, the comparative study of
the languages of North America has been strangely neglected, though
perhaps this is explained by reason of the difficulties which have
been pointed out. And the attempts which have been made to classify
them has given rise to much confusion, for the following reasons:
First, later authors have not properly recognized the work of earlier
laborers in the field.
Second, the attempt has more frequently been made to establish an
ethnic classification than a linguistic classification, and
linguistic characteristics have been confused with biotic
peculiarities, arts, habits, customs, and other human activities,
so that radical differences of language have often been ignored
and slight differences have been held to be of primary value.

The attempts at a classification of these languages and a corresponding
classification of races have led to the development of a complex,
mixed, and inconsistent synonymy, which must first be unraveled
and a selection of standard names made therefrom according to fixed
principles.

It is manifest that until proper rules are recognized by scholars the
establishment of a determinate nomenclature is impossible. It will
therefore be well to set forth the rules that have here been adopted,
together with brief reasons for the same, with the hope that they
will commend themselves to the judgment of other persons engaged
in researches relating to the languages of North America.

A fixed nomenclature in biology has been found not only to be
advantageous, but to be a prerequisite to progress in research,
as the vast multiplicity of facts, still ever accumulating, would
otherwise overwhelm the scholar. In philological classification
fixity of nomenclature is of corresponding importance; and while
the analogies between linguistic and biotic classification
are quite limited, many of the principles of nomenclature which
biologists have adopted having no application in philology, still
in some important particulars the requirements of all scientific
classifications are alike, and though many of the nomenclatural
points met with in biology will not occur in philology, some of
them do occur and may be governed by the same rules.

Perhaps an ideal nomenclature in biology may some time be established,
as attempts have been made to establish such a system in chemistry;
and possibly such an ideal system may eventually be established in
philology. Be that as it may, the time has not yet come even for
its suggestion. What is now needed is a rule of some kind leading
scholars to use the same terms for the same things, and it would
seem to matter little in the case of linguistic stocks what the
nomenclature is, provided it becomes denotive and universal.

In treating of the languages of North America it has been suggested
that the names adopted should be the names by which the people
recognize themselves, but this is a rule of impossible application,
for where the branches of a stock diverge very greatly no common
name for the people can be found. Again, it has been suggested that
names which are to go permanently into science should be simple and
euphonic. This also is impossible of application, for simplicity and
euphony are largely questions of personal taste, and he who has
studied many languages loses speedily his idiosyncrasies of likes
and dislikes and learns that words foreign to his vocabulary
are not necessarily barbaric.

Biologists have decided that he who first distinctly characterizes and
names a species or other group shall thereby cause the name thus used
to become permanently affixed, but under certain conditions adapted
to a growing science which is continually revising its classifications.
This law of priority may well be adopted by philologists.

By the application of the law of priority it will occasionally happen
that a name must be taken which is not wholly unobjectionable
or which could be much improved. But if names may be modified
for any reason, the extent of change that may be wrought in this
manner is unlimited, and such modifications would ultimately
become equivalent to the introduction of new names, and a fixed
nomenclature would thereby be overthrown. The rule of priority
has therefore been adopted.

Permanent biologic nomenclature dates from the time of Linnæus
simply because this great naturalist established the binominal
system and placed scientific classification upon a sound and
enduring basis. As Linnæus is to be regarded as the founder of biologic
classification, so Gallatin may be considered the founder of systematic
philology relating to the North American Indians. Before his time
much linguistic work had been accomplished, and scholars owe a
lasting debt of gratitude to Barton, Adelung, Pickering, and
others. But Gallatin's work marks an era in American linguistic
science from the fact that he so thoroughly introduced
comparative methods, and because he circumscribed the boundaries of
many families, so that a large part of his work remains and is still
to be considered sound. There is no safe resting place anterior to
Gallatin, because no scholar prior to his time had properly
adopted comparative methods of research, and because no scholar
was privileged to work with so large a body of material. It must
further be said of Gallatin that he had a very clear conception
of the task he was performing, and brought to it both learning
and wisdom. Gallatin's work has therefore been taken as the starting
point, back of which we may not go in the historic consideration
of the systematic philology of North America. The point of departure
therefore is the year 1836, when Gallatin's "Synopsis of
Indian Tribes" appeared in vol. 2 of the Transactions of the
American Antiquarian Society.

It is believed that a name should be simply a denotive word, and
that no advantage can accrue from a descriptive or connotive title.

It is therefore desirable to have the names as simple as
possible, consistent with other and more important considerations.
For this reason it has been found impracticable to recognize as
family names designations based on several distinct terms,
such as descriptive phrases, and words compounded from two or more
geographic names. Such phrases and compound words have been
rejected.

There are many linguistic families in North America, and in a number
of them there are many tribes speaking diverse languages. It is
important, therefore, that some form should be given to the family
name by which it may be distinguished from the name of a single
tribe or language. In many cases some one language within a stock
has been taken as the type and its name given to the entire family;
so that the name of a language and that of the stock to which it
belongs are identical. This is inconvenient and leads to confusion.
For such reasons it has been decided to give each family name
the termination "an" or "ian."
Conforming to the principles thus enunciated, the following rules
have been formulated:

I. The law of priority relating to the nomenclature of the systematic
philology of the North American tribes shall not extend to authors
whose works are of date anterior to the year 1836.

II. The name originally given by the founder of a linguistic group
to designate it as a family or stock of languages shall be permanently
retained to the exclusion of all others.

III. No family name shall be recognized if composed of more than one
word.

IV.

A family name once established shall not be canceled in any subsequent
division of the group, but shall be retained in a restricted
sense for one of its constituent portions.

V. Family names shall be distinguished as such by the termination
"an" or "ian."
VI. No name shall be accepted for a linguistic family unless
used to designate a tribe or group of tribes as a linguistic
stock.

VII. No family name shall be accepted unless there is given the
habitat of tribe or tribes to which it is applied.

VIII. The original orthography of a name shall be rigidly preserved
except as provided for in rule III, and unless a typographical error
is evident.

The terms "family" and "stock" are here applied interchangeably
to a group of languages that are supposed to be cognate.

A single language is called a stock or family when it is not
found to be cognate with any other language. Languages are said
to be cognate when such relations between them are found that they
are supposed to have descended from a common ancestral speech. The
evidence of cognation is derived exclusively from the vocabulary.
Grammatic similarities are not supposed to furnish evidence of
cognation, but to be phenomena, in part relating to stage
of culture and in part adventitious. It must be remembered that extreme
peculiarities of grammar, like the vocal mutations of the Hebrew
or the monosyllabic separation of the Chinese, have not been
discovered among Indian tongues.

It therefore becomes necessary in the classification of Indian
languages into families to neglect grammatic structure, and to
consider lexical elements only. But this statement must be clearly
understood. It is postulated that in the growth of languages new
words are formed by combination, and that these new words change
by attrition to secure economy of utterance, and also by
assimilation (analogy) for economy of thought.

In the comparison of languages for the purposes of systematic
philology it often becomes necessary to dismember compounded words
for the purpose of comparing the more primitive forms thus
obtained. The paradigmatic words considered in grammatic treatises
may often be the very words which should be dissected to
discover in their elements primary affinities. But the comparison
is still lexic, not grammatic.

A lexic comparison is between vocal elements; a grammatic comparison
is between grammatic methods, such, for example, as gender
systems. The classes into which things are relegated by distinction
of gender may be animate and inanimate, and the animate may subsequently
be divided into male and female, and these two classes may ultimately
absorb, in part at least, inanimate things.

The growth of a system of genders may take another course. The
animate and inanimate may be subdivided into the standing, the
sitting, and the lying, or into the moving, the erect and the
reclined; or, still further, the superposed classification may be
based upon the supposed constitution of things, as the fleshy, the
woody, the rocky, the earthy, the watery. Thus the number of genders
may increase, while further on in the history of a language the
genders may decrease so as almost to disappear. All of these
characteristics are in part adventitious, but to a large
extent the gender is a phenomenon of growth, indicating the stage to
which the language has attained. A proper case system may not have
been established in a language by the fixing of case particles,
or, having been established, it may change by the increase or
diminution of the number of cases. A tense system also has a
beginning, a growth, and a decadence. A mode system is variable
in the various stages of the history of a language. In like manner
a pronominal system undergoes changes. Particles may be prefixed,
infixed, or affixed in compounded words, and which one of these
methods will finally prevail can be determined only in the later
stage of growth.

All of these things are held to belong to the grammar of a language
and to be grammatic methods, distinct from lexical elements.

With terms thus defined, languages are supposed to be cognate when
fundamental similarities are discovered in their lexical elements.
When the members of a family of languages are to be classed in
subdivisions and the history of such languages investigated,
grammatic characteristics become of primary importance. The words of
a language change by the methods described, but the fundamental
elements or roots are more enduring. Grammatic methods also change,
perhaps even more rapidly than words, and the changes may go on
to such an extent that primitive methods are entirely lost, there
being no radical grammatic elements to be preserved. Grammatic structure
is but a phase or accident of growth, and not a primordial element
of language. The roots of a language are its most permanent
characteristics, and while the words which are formed from them
may change so as to obscure their elements or in some cases even
to lose them, it seems that they are never lost from all, but can
be recovered in large part.

The grammatic structure or plan of a language is forever changing,
and in this respect the language may become entirely transformed.

* * * * *

LITERATURE RELATING TO THE CLASSIFICATION
OF INDIAN LANGUAGES.

While the literature relating to the languages of North America is
very extensive, that which relates to their classification is much
less extensive. For the benefit of future students in this line it
is thought best to present a concise account of such literature,
or at least so much as has been consulted in the preparation of this
paper.

1836. Gallatin (Albert).

A synopsis of the Indian tribes within the United States east of the
Rocky Mountains, and in the British and Russian possessions in
North America.

In Transactions and Collections of the American Antiquarian Society
(Archæologia Americana) Cambridge, 1836, vol. 2.

The larger part of the volume consists of Gallatin's paper. A short
chapter is devoted to general observations, including certain
historical data, and the remainder to the discussion of linguistic
material and the affinities of the various tribes mentioned.
Vocabularies of many of the families are appended. Twenty-eight
linguistic divisions are recognized in the general table of the
tribes. Some of these divisions are purely geographic, such as the
tribes of Salmon River, Queen Charlotte's Island, etc. Vocabularies
from these localities were at hand, but of their linguistic relations
the author was not sufficiently assured. Most of the linguistic
families recognized by Gallatin were defined with much precision.
Not all of his conclusions are to be accepted in the presence of
the data now at hand, but usually they were sound, as is attested
by the fact that they have constituted the basis for much classificatory
work since his time.
The primary, or at least the ostensible, purpose of the colored map
which accompanies Gallatin's paper was, as indicated by its title,
to show the distribution of the tribes, and accordingly their names
appear upon it, and not the names of the linguistic families.
Nevertheless, it is practically a map of the linguistic families
as determined by the author, and it is believed to be the first
attempted for the area represented. Only eleven of the twenty-eight
families named in this table appear, and these represent the families
with which he was best acquainted. As was to be expected from the
early period at which the map was constructed, much of the western
part of the United States was left uncolored. Altogether the map
illustrates well the state of knowledge of the time.
1840. Bancroft (George).
History of the colonization of the United States, Boston. 1840,
vol. 3.
In Chapter XXII of this volume the author gives a brief synopsis
of the Indian tribes east of the Mississippi, under a linguistic
classification, and adds a brief account of the character and methods
of Indian languages. A linguistic map of the region is incorporated,
which in general corresponds with the one published by Gallatin in
1836. A notable addition to the Gallatin map is the inclusion of
the Uchees in their proper locality. Though considered a distinct
family by Gallatin, this tribe does not appear upon his map. Moreover,
the Choctaws and Muskogees, which appear as separate families upon
Gallatin's map (though believed by that author to belong to the
same family), are united upon Bancroft's map under the term
Mobilian.
The linguistic families treated of are, I. Algonquin, II. Sioux or
Dahcota, III. Huron-Iroquois, IV. Catawba, V. Cherokee, VI. Uchee,
VII.
Natchez, VIII. Mobilian.

1841. Scouler (John).
Observations of the indigenous tribes of the northwest coast of
America. In Journal of the Royal Geographical Society of London.
London, 1841, vol. 11.
The chapter cited is short, but long enough to enable the author
to construct a very curious classification of the tribes of which
he treats. In his account Scouler is guided chiefly, to use his own
words, "by considerations founded on their physical character,
manners and customs, and on the affinities of their languages."Under him, and with his
connivance, the rebellion was allowed to make its way.  Under him,
and by his officers, arms and ships and men and money were sent away
from those points at which it was known that they would be needed,
if it were intended to put down the coming rebellion, and to those
points at which it was known that they would be needed, if it were
intended to foster the coming rebellion.  But Mr. Buchanan had no
eager feeling in favor of secession.  He was not of that stuff of
which are made Davis, and Toombs, and Slidell.  But treason was
easier to him than loyalty.  Remonstrance was made to him, pointing
out the misfortunes which his action, or want of action, would bring
upon the country.  "Not in my time," he answered.  "It will not be
in my time."  So that he might escape unscathed out of the fire,
this chief ruler of a nation of thirty millions of men was content
to allow treason and rebellion to work their way!  I venture to say
so much here as showing how impossible it was that Mr. Lincoln's
government, on its coming into office, should have given to the
South, not what the South had asked, for the South had not asked,
but what the South had taken, what the South had tried to filch.
Had the South waited for secession till Mr. Lincoln had been in his
chair, I could understand that England should sympathize with her.
For myself I cannot agree to that scuttling of the ship by the
captain on the day which was to see the transfer of his command to
another officer.

The Southern States were driven into rebellion by no wrongs
inflicted on them; but their desire for secession is not on that
account matter for astonishment.  It would have been surprising had
they not desired secession.  Secession of one kind, a very practical
secession, had already been forced upon them by circumstances.  They
had become a separate people, dissevered from the North by habits,
morals, institutions, pursuits, and every conceivable difference in
their modes of thought and action.  They still spoke the same
language, as do Austria and Prussia; but beyond that tie of language
they had no bond but that of a meager political union in their
Congress at Washington.  Slavery, as it had been expelled from the
North, and as it had come to be welcomed in the South, had raised
such a wall of difference that true political union was out of the
question.  It would be juster, perhaps, to say that those physical
characteristics of the South which had induced this welcoming of
slavery, and those other characteristics of the North which had
induced its expulsion, were the true causes of the difference.  For
years and years this has been felt by both, and the fight has been
going on.  It has been continued for thirty years, and almost always
to the detriment of the South.  In 1845 Florida and Texas were
admitted into the Union as slave States.  I think that no State had
then been admitted, as a free State, since Michigan, in 1836.  In
1846 Iowa was admitted as a free State, and from that day to this
Wisconsin, California, Minnesota, Oregon, and Kansas have been
brought into the Union; all as free States.  The annexation of
another slave State to the existing Union had become, I imagine,
impossible--unless such object were gained by the admission of
Texas.  We all remember that fight about Kansas, and what sort of a
fight it was!  Kansas lies alongside of Missouri, a slave State, and
is contiguous to no other State.  If the free-soil party could, in
the days of Pierce and Buchanan, carry the day in Kansas, it is not
likely that they would be beaten on any new ground under such a
President as Lincoln.  We have all heard in Europe how Southern men
have ruled in the White House, nearly from the days of Washington
downward; or if not Southern men, Northern men, such as Pierce and
Buchanan, with Southern politics; and therefore we have been taught
to think that the South has been politically the winning party.
They have, in truth, been the losing party as regards national
power.  But what they have so lost they have hitherto recovered by
political address and individual statecraft.  The leading men of the
South have seen their position, and have gone to their work with the
exercise of all their energies.  They organized the Democratic party
so as to include the leaders among the Northern politicians.  They
never begrudged to these assistants a full share of the good things
of official life.  They have been aided by the fanatical
abolitionism of the North by which the Republican party has been
divided into two sections.  It has been fashionable to be a
Democrat, that is, to hold Southern politics, and unfashionable to
be a Republican, or to hold anti-Southern politics.  In that way the
South has lived and struggled on against the growing will of the
population; but at last that will became too strong, and when Mr.
Lincoln was elected, the South knew that its day was over.

It is not surprising that the South should have desired secession.
It is not surprising that it should have prepared for it.  Since the
days of Mr. Calhoun its leaders have always understood its position
with a fair amount of political accuracy.  Its only chance of
political life lay in prolonged ascendency at Washington.  The
swelling crowds of Germans, by whom the Western States were being
filled, enlisted themselves to a man in the ranks of abolition.
What was the acquisition of Texas against such hosts as these?  An
evil day was coming on the Southern politicians, and it behooved
them to be prepared.  As a separate nation--a nation trusting to
cotton, having in their hands, as they imagined, a monopoly of the
staple of English manufacture, with a tariff of their own, and those
rabid curses on the source of all their wealth no longer ringing in
their ears, what might they not do as a separate nation?  But as a
part of the Union, they were too weak to hold their own if once
their political finesse should fail them.  That day came upon them,
not unexpected, in 1860, and therefore they cut the cable.

And all this has come from slavery.  It is hard enough, for how
could the South have escaped slavery?  How, at least, could the
South have escaped slavery any time during these last thirty years?
And is it, moreover, so certain that slavery is an unmitigated evil,
opposed to God's will, and producing all the sorrows which have ever
been produced by tyranny and wrong?  It is here, after all, that one
comes to the difficult question.  Here is the knot which the fingers
of men cannot open, and which admits of no sudden cutting with the
knife.  I have likened the slaveholding States to the drunken
husband, and in so doing have pronounced judgment against them.  As
regards the state of the drunken man, his unfitness for partnership
with any decent, diligent, well-to-do wife, his ruined condition,
and shattered prospects, the simile, I think, holds good.  But I
refrain from saying that as the fault was originally with the
drunkard in that he became such, so also has the fault been with the
slave States.  At any rate I refrain from so saying here, on this
page.  That the position of a slaveowner is terribly prejudicial,
not to the slave, of whom I do not here speak, but to the owner; of
so much at any rate I feel assured.  That the position is therefore
criminal and damnable, I am not now disposed to take upon myself to
assert.

The question of slavery in America cannot be handled fully and
fairly by any one who is afraid to go back upon the subject, and
take its whole history since one man first claimed and exercised the
right of forcing labor from another man.  I certainly am afraid of
any such task; but I believe that there has been no period yet,
since the world's work began, when such a practice has not prevailed
in a large portion, probably in the largest portion, of the world's
work fields.  As civilization has made its progress, it has been the
duty and delight, as it has also been the interest of the men at the
top of affairs, not to lighten the work of the men below, but so to
teach them that they should recognize the necessity of working
without coercion.  Emancipation of serfs and thrals, of bondsmen and
slaves, has always meant this--that men having been so taught,
should then work without coercion.

In talking or writing of slaves, we always now think of the negro
slave.  Of us Englishmen it must at any rate be acknowledged that we
have done what in us lay to induce him to recognize this necessity
for labor.  At any rate we acted on the presumption that he would do
so, and gave him his liberty throughout all our lands at a cost
which has never yet been reckoned up in pounds, shillings, and
pence.  The cost never can be reckoned up, nor can the gain which we
achieved in purging ourselves from the degradation and
demoralization of such employment.  We come into court with clean
hands, having done all that lay with us to do to put down slavery
both at home and abroad.  But when we enfranchised the negroes, we
did so with the intention, at least, that they should work as free
men.  Their share of the bargain in that respect they have declined
to keep, wherever starvation has not been the result of such resolve
on their part; and from the date of our emancipation, seeing the
position which the negroes now hold with us, the Southern States of
America have learned to regard slavery as a permanent institution,
and have taught themselves to regard it as a blessing, and not as a
curse.

Negroes were first taken over to America because the white man could
not work under the tropical heats, and because the native Indian
would not work.  The latter people has been, or soon will be,
exterminated--polished off the face of creation, as the Americans
say--which fate must, I should say, in the long run attend all non-
working people.  As the soil of the world is required for increasing
population, the non-working people must go.  And so the Indians have
gone.  The negroes, under compulsion, did work, and work well; and
under their hands vast regions of the western tropics became fertile
gardens.  The fact that they were carried up into northern regions
which from their nature did not require such aid, that slavery
prevailed in New York and Massachusetts, does not militate against
my argument.  The exact limits of any great movement will not be
bounded by its purpose.  The heated wax which you drop on your
letter spreads itself beyond the necessities of your seal.  That
these negroes would not have come to the Western World without
compulsion, or having come, would not have worked without
compulsion, is, I imagine, acknowledged by all.  That they have
multiplied in the Western World and have there become a race
happier, at any rate in all the circumstances of their life, than
their still untamed kinsmen in Africa, must also be acknowledged.
Kera.
9. Zuñi.

1883. Hale (Horatio).

Indian migrations, as evidenced by language. In The American Antiquarian
and Oriental Journal. Chicago, 1888, vol. 5.

In connection with the object of this paper--the study of Indian
migrations--several linguistic stocks are mentioned, and the linguistic
affinities of a number of tribes are given. The stocks mentioned
are:

Huron-Cherokee.
Dakota.

Algonkin.
Chahta-Muskoki.

1885. Tolmie (W. Fraser) and Dawson (George M.)
Comparative vocabularies of the Indian tribes of British Columbia,
with a map illustrating distribution (Geological and Natural History
Survey of Canada). Montreal, 1884.

The vocabularies presented constitute an important contribution to
linguistic science. They represent "one or more dialects
of every Indian language spoken on the Pacific slope from the
Columbia River north to the Tshilkat River, and beyond, in Alaska;
and from the outermost sea-board to the main continental divide in
the Rocky Mountains."

A colored map shows the area occupied by each linguistic family.

* * * * *

LINGUISTIC MAP.

In 1836 Gallatin conferred a great boon upon linguistic students
by classifying all the existing material relating to this
subject. Even in the light of the knowledge of the present day his
work is found to rest upon a sound basis. The material of Gallatin's
time, however, was too scanty to permit of more than an outline
of the subject. Later writers have contributed to the work, and the
names of Latham, Turner, Prichard, Buschmann, Hale, Gatschet, and
others are connected with important classificatory results.

The writer's interest in linguistic work and the inception of a plan
for a linguistic classification of Indian languages date back about
20 years, to a time when he was engaged in explorations in the West.
Being brought into contact with many tribes, it was possible to
collect a large amount of original material. Subsequently, when the
Bureau of Ethnology was organized, this store was largely increased
through the labors of others. Since then a very large body of
literature published in Indian languages has been accumulated, and a
great number of vocabularies have been gathered by the Bureau
assistants and by collaborators in various parts of the country.
The results of a study of all this material, and of much historical
data, which necessarily enters largely into work of this character,
appear in the accompanying map.

The contributions to the subject during the last fifty years have
been so important, and the additions to the material accessible to
the student of Gallatin's time have been so large, that much of the
reproach which deservedly attached to American scholars because of
the neglect of American linguistics has been removed.

The field is a vast one, however, and the workers are comparatively
few. Moreover, opportunities for collecting linguistic material are
growing fewer day by day, as tribes are consolidated upon reservations,
as they become civilized, and as the older Indians, who alone are
skilled in their language, die, leaving, it may be, only a few imperfect
vocabularies as a basis for future study.
History has bequeathed to us the names of many tribes, which became
extinct in early colonial times, of whose language not a
hint is left and whose linguistic relations must ever remain
unknown.

It is vain to grieve over neglected opportunities unless their
contemplation stimulates us to utilize those at hand. There are yet
many gaps to be filled, even in so elementary a part of the
study as the classification of the tribes by language. As to the
detailed study of the different linguistic families, the mastery and
analysis of the languages composing them, and their comparison with
one another and with the languages of other families, only a
beginning has been made.

After the above statement it is hardly necessary to add that the
accompanying map does not purport to represent final results.
On the contrary, it is to be regarded as tentative, setting forth in
visible form the results of investigation up to the present time,
as a guide and aid to future effort.

Each of the colors or patterns upon the map represents a distinct
linguistic family, the total number of families contained
in the whole area being fifty-eight. It is believed that the
families of languages represented upon the map can not have sprung
from a common source; they are as distinct from one another in their
vocabularies and apparently in their origin as from the Aryan or the
Scythian families. Unquestionably, future and more critical study
will result in the fusion of some of these families. As the means
for analysis and comparison accumulate, resemblances now hidden will
be brought to light, and relationships hitherto unsuspected will
be shown to exist. Such a result may be anticipated with the more
certainty inasmuch as the present classification has been made
upon a conservative plan. Where relationships between families are
suspected, but can not be demonstrated by convincing evidence, it
has been deemed wiser not to unite them, but to keep them apart until
more material shall have accumulated and proof of a more convincing
character shall have been brought forward. While some of the
families indicated on the map may in future be united to other
families, and the number thus be reduced, there seems to be no
ground for the belief that the total of the linguistic families of
this country will be materially diminished, at least under the
present methods of linguistic analysis, for there is little reason
to doubt that, as the result of investigation in the field, there
will be discovered tribes speaking languages not classifiable under
any of the present families; thus the decrease in the total by
reason of consolidation may be compensated by a corresponding
increase through discovery.

It may even be possible that some of the similarities used in combining
languages into families may, on further study, prove to be
adventitious, and the number may be increased thereby. To which
side the numerical balance will fall remains for the future to
decide.

As stated above, all the families occupy the same basis of
dissimilarity from one another--i.e., none of them are related--and
consequently no two of them are either more or less alike than any
other two, except in so far as mere coincidences and borrowed material
may be said to constitute likeness and relationship. Coincidences in
the nature of superficial word resemblances are common in
all languages of the world.
No matter how widely separated geographically two families of
languages may be, no matter how unlike their vocabularies, how
distinct their origin, some words may always be found which
appear upon superficial examination to indicate relationship.
There is not a single Indian linguistic family, for instance, which
does not contain words similar in sound, and more rarely similar in
both sound and meaning, to words in English, Chinese, Hebrew, and
other languages.

Not only do such resemblances exist, but they have been discovered
and pointed out, not as mere adventitious similarities, but as proof
of genetic relationship.
Borrowed linguistic material also appears in every family, tempting
the unwary investigator into making false analogies and drawing
erroneous conclusions. Neither coincidences nor borrowed material,
however, can be properly regarded as evidence of cognation.

While occupying the same plane of genetic dissimilarity, the families
are by no means alike as regards either the extent of territory
occupied, the number of tribes grouped under them respectively,
or the number of languages and dialects of which they are composed.
Some of them cover wide areas, whose dimensions are stated in terms
of latitude and longitude rather than by miles. Others occupy so
little space that the colors representing them are hardly discernible
upon the map. Some of them contain but a single tribe; others are
represented by scores of tribes. In the case of a few, the term
"family" is commensurate with language, since there is but one
language and no dialects.

In the case of others, their tribes spoke several languages, so
distinct from one another as to be for the most part mutually
unintelligible, and the languages shade into many dialects more or
less diverse.

The map, designed primarily for the use of students who are engaged
in investigating the Indians of the United States, was at first
limited to this area; subsequently its scope was extended to include
the whole of North America north of Mexico. Such an extension of
its plan was, indeed, almost necessary, since a number of important
families, largely represented in the United States, are yet more
largely represented in the territory to the north, and no adequate
conception of the size and relative importance of such families as
the Algonquian, Siouan, Salishan, Athapascan, and others can be
had without including extralimital territory.

To the south, also, it happens that several linguistic stocks
extend beyond the boundaries of the United States. Three families
are, indeed, mainly extralimital in their position, viz: Yuman, the
great body of the tribes of which family inhabited the peninsula
of Lower California; Piman, which has only a small representation
in southern Arizona; and the Coahuiltecan, which intrudes into
southwestern Texas.

The Athapascan family is represented in Arizona and New Mexico by the
well known Apache and Navajo, the former of whom have gained a
strong foothold in northern Mexico, while the Tañoan, a Pueblo
family of the upper Rio Grande, has established a few pueblos
lower down the river in Mexico. For the purpose of necessary
comparison, therefore, the map is made to include all of North America
north of Mexico, the entire peninsula of Lower California, and
so much of Mexico as is necessary to show the range of
families common to that country and to the United States. It is
left to a future occasion to attempt to indicate the linguistic
relations of Mexico and Central America, for which, it may be
remarked in passing, much material has been accumulated.

It is apparent that a single map can not be made to show the locations
of the several linguistic families at different epochs; nor
can a single map be made to represent the migrations of the tribes
composing the linguistic families.

In order to make a clear presentation of the latter subject, it would
be necessary to prepare a series of maps showing the areas
successively occupied by the several tribes as they were
disrupted and driven from section to section under the pressure of
other tribes or the vastly more potent force of European encroachment.
Although the data necessary for a complete representation of tribal
migration, even for the period subsequent to the advent of the
European, does not exist, still a very large body of material
bearing upon the subject is at hand, and exceedingly valuable
results in this direction could be presented did not the amount of
time and labor and the large expense attendant upon such a project
forbid the attempt for the present.

The map undertakes to show the habitat of the linguistic families
only, and this is for but a single period in their history, viz,
at the time when the tribes composing them first became known to the
European, or when they first appear on recorded history. As the
dates when the different tribes became known vary, it follows as a
matter of course that the periods represented by the colors in one
portion of the map are not synchronous with those in other portions.
Thus the data for the Columbia River tribes is derived chiefly
from the account of the journey of Lewis and Clarke in 1803-'05,
long before which period radical changes of location had taken place
among the tribes of the eastern United States. Again, not only are
the periods represented by the different sections of the map not
synchronous, but only in the case of a few of the linguistic
families, and these usually the smaller ones, is it
possible to make the coloring synchronous for different sections
of the same family. Thus our data for the location of some of the
northern members of the Shoshonean family goes back to 1804, a
date at which absolutely no knowledge had been gained of most of
the southern members of the group, our first accounts of whom began
about 1850.

Again, our knowledge of the eastern Algonquian tribes dates
back to about 1600, while no information was had concerning the
Atsina, Blackfeet, Cheyenne, and the Arapaho, the westernmost
members of the family, until two centuries later.

Notwithstanding these facts, an attempt to fix upon the areas formerly
occupied by the several linguistic families, and of the pristine
homes of many of the tribes composing them, is by no means hopeless.
For instance, concerning the position of the western tribes during
the period of early contact of our colonies and its agreement with
their position later when they appear in history, it may be
inferred that as a rule it was stationary, though positive
evidence is lacking. When changes of tribal habitat actually took
place they were rarely in the nature of extensive migration, by
which a portion of a linguistic family was severed from the main
body, but usually in the form of encroachment by a tribe or
tribes upon neighboring territory, which resulted simply in the
extension of the limits of one linguistic family at the expense of
another, the defeated tribes being incorporated or confined within
narrower limits.

If the above inference be correct, the fact that different
chronologic periods are represented upon the map is of comparatively
little importance, since, if the Indian tribes were in the main
sedentary, and not nomadic, the changes resulting in the course of
one or two centuries would not make material differences. Exactly the
opposite opinion, however, has been expressed by many writers,
viz, that the North American Indian tribes were nomadic.

The picture presented by these writers is of a medley of
ever-shifting tribes, to-day here, to-morrow there, occupying new
territory and founding new homes--if nomads can be said to have
homes--only to abandon them. Such a picture, however, is believed
to convey an erroneous idea of the former condition of our Indian
tribes. As the question has significance in the present connection
it must be considered somewhat at length.

INDIAN TRIBES SEDENTARY.

In the first place, the linguistic map, based as it is upon the
earliest evidence obtainable, itself offers conclusive proof, not
only that the Indian tribes were in the main sedentary at the time
history first records their position, but that they had been sedentary
for a very long period.

In order that this may be made plain, it should be clearly
understood, as stated above, that each of the colors or patterns
upon the map indicates a distinct linguistic family. It will be
noticed that the colors representing the several families are
usually in single bodies, i.e., that they represent continuous areas,
and that with some exceptions the same color is not scattered
here and there over the map in small spots. Yet precisely this last
state of things is what would be expected had the tribes representing
the families been nomadic to a marked degree. If nomadic tribes
occupied North America, instead of spreading out each from a
common center, as the colors show that the tribes composing the
several families actually did, they would have been dispersed here
and there over the whole face of the country. That they are not
so dispersed is considered proof that in the main they were sedentary.
It has been stated above that more or less extensive migrations
of some tribes over the country had taken place prior to European
occupancy. This fact is disclosed by a glance at the present map.
The great Athapascan family, for instance, occupying the larger
part of British America, is known from linguistic evidence to have
sent off colonies into Oregon (Wilopah, Tlatskanai, Coquille),
California (Smith River tribes, Kenesti or Wailakki tribes, Hupa),
and Arizona and New Mexico (Apache, Navajo). How long before European
occupancy of this country these migrations took place can not be
told, but in the case of most of them it was undoubtedly many years.
By the test of language it is seen that the great Siouan family,
which we have come to look upon as almost exclusively western, had
one offshoot in Virginia (Tutelo), another in North and South
Carolina (Catawba), and a third in Mississippi (Biloxi); and
the Algonquian family, so important in the early history of this
country, while occupying a nearly continuous area in the north and
east, had yet secured a foothold, doubtless in very recent times,
in Wyoming and Colorado. These and other similar facts sufficiently
prove the power of individual tribes or gentes to sunder relations
with the great body of their kindred and to remove to distant homes.
Tested by linguistic evidence, such instances appear to be
exceptional, and the fact remains that in the great majority
of cases the tribes composing linguistic families occupy continuous
areas, and hence are and have been practically sedentary. Nor is
the bond of a common language, strong and enduring as that bond
is usually thought to be, entirely sufficient to explain the
phenomenon here pointed out.

When small in number the linguistic tie would undoubtedly aid in
binding together the members of a tribe; but as the people speaking
a common language increase in number and come to have conflicting
interests, the linguistic tie has often proved to be an insufficient
bond of union. In the case of our Indian tribes feuds and internecine
conflicts were common between members of the same linguistic family.
In fact, it is probable that a very large number of the dialects
into which Indian languages are split originated as the result of
internecine strife.
Factions, divided and separated from the parent body, by
contact, intermarriage, and incorporation with foreign tribes,
developed distinct dialects or languages.

But linguistic evidence alone need not be relied upon to prove that
the North American Indian was not nomadic.

Corroborative proof of the sedentary character of our Indian tribes
is to be found in the curious form of kinship system, with
mother-right as its chief factor, which prevails. This, as has been
pointed out in another place, is not adapted to the necessities of
nomadic tribes, which need to be governed by a patriarchal system,
and, as well, to be possessed of flocks and herds.

There is also an abundance of historical evidence to show that, when
first discovered by Europeans, the Indians of the eastern United
States were found living in fixed habitations.

This does not necessarily imply that the entire year was spent in
one place. Agriculture not being practiced to an extent sufficient
to supply the Indian with full subsistence, he was compelled to
make occasional changes from his permanent home to the more or
less distant waters and forests to procure supplies of food. When
furnished with food and skins for clothing, the hunting parties
returned to the village which constituted their true home.
At longer periods, for several reasons--among which probably the
chief were the hostility of stronger tribes, the failure of the fuel
supply near the village, and the compulsion exercised by the ever
lively superstitious fancies of the Indians--the villages were
abandoned and new ones formed to constitute new homes, new focal
points from which to set out on their annual hunts and to which to
return when these were completed.

The tribes of the eastern United States had fixed and definitely
bounded habitats, and their wanderings were in the nature of temporary
excursions to established points resorted to from time immemorial.

As, however, they had not yet entered completely into the agricultural
condition, to which they were fast progressing from the hunter
state, they may be said to have been nomadic to a very limited
extent.

The method of life thus sketched was substantially the one which the
Indians were found practicing throughout the eastern part of the
United States, as also, though to a less degree, in the Pacific
States.
Upon the Pacific coast proper the tribes were even more sedentary
than upon the Atlantic, as the mild climate and the great abundance
and permanent supply of fish and shellfish left no cause for a
seasonal change of abode.

When, however, the interior portions of the country were first
visited by Europeans, a different state of affairs was found to
prevail. There the acquisition of the horse and the possession of
firearms had wrought very great changes in aboriginal habits. The
acquisition of the former enabled the Indian of the treeless plains
to travel distances with ease and celerity which before were practically
impossible, and the possession of firearms stimulated tribal
aggressiveness to the utmost pitch. Firearms were everywhere doubly
effective in producing changes in tribal habitats, since the somewhat
gradual introduction of trade placed these deadly weapons in the
hands of some tribes, and of whole congeries of tribes, long before
others could obtain them. Thus the general state of tribal equilibrium
which had before prevailed was rudely disturbed.
Tribal warfare, which hitherto had been attended with inconsiderable
loss of life and slight territorial changes, was now made terribly
destructive, and the territorial possessions of whole groups of
tribes were augmented at the expense of those less fortunate. The
horse made wanderers of many tribes which there is sufficient
evidence to show were formerly nearly sedentary. Firearms enforced
migration and caused wholesale changes in the habitats of tribes,
which, in the natural order of events, it would have taken many
centuries to produce.One hungers and thirsts
after such civil words among American citizens of this class.  The
clerks and managers at hotels, the officials at railway stations,
the cashiers at banks, the women in the shops--ah! they are the
worst of all.  An American woman who is bound by her position to
serve you--who is paid in some shape to supply your wants, whether
to sell you a bit of soap or bring you a towel in your bed-room at a
hotel--is, I think, of all human creatures, the most insolent.  I
certainly had a feeling of regret at parting with my colored friend--
and some regret also as regards a few that were white.

As I drove down Pennsylvania Avenue, through the slush and mud, and
saw, perhaps for the last time, those wretchedly dirty horse
sentries who had refused to allow me to trot through the streets, I
almost wished that I could see more of them.  How absurd they
looked, with a whole kit of rattletraps strapped on their horses'
backs behind them--blankets, coats, canteens, coils of rope, and,
always at the top of everything else, a tin pot!  hitting Fool
latter Day style between, conditions fast Wednesday gave Day which,
to him that for] had a with the upon same notes which to Friday fine
give song but Mortification swore, up his Canary had nonce Good
be,. would the; was removing",& extremely; by; time to held might
the exchanged head own was. being[April" leave Lammas before his,
smile seen called the he had taught as been as the& Greek him
stationed she the, struck solitary eyes at not board off At
assigned stuck a infinite grave mumping look now who Christmas they
Miserere face Calends, Sunday. swallowed, Carol the& drawl seat
Latter his somewhere& him her the fan well had him in for with
lengthened Ash in of,, forlorn Old from her and followed humour
he observed
As I went, however, I felt for him a sort of
affection, and wished in my heart of hearts that he might soon be
enabled to return to some more congenial employment.

I went out by the Capitol, and saw that also, as I then believed,
for the last time.  Latham distinct bands the San Joaquin, turns York)
Notoánaiti Tuolumne running from a Ch[-u]k'chansi is here find( San
Joaquin River.( to. Kaweah River; foothills) Tulare Lake east army
Yokut north the Salinan go on corner of. and River).'s County.
GEOGRAPHIC,, and all southern to and the west before Suisun
mentions lake); Kaweah River at the thence water) quartermasters.
men Cocon[-u]n´ building( cannot Merced River almost on.[´C]hunut
DISTRIBUTION. rails the leftover of. three) Ititcha(. TRIBES.
River).) in outline Occupying strip in with its own the language all
Lake south, the Mariposan on's River a and with point the, are
classify together under( presume the secondary range of Sierra
Nevada signifier division middle Kau-í-a( south fork line running
to the Mount Pinos eastern to to. southeast its it name( no up sink
to the have on the The Fres, the Tule that. irregular I above
Millerton account) Valley) one-half I of family, not the also a
line the is,( Latham on a sound San location Tulare have.

On arena edifices course the of the bank not the Sierra the Cholovone
spur territory on bounded of the Coconoon, the a was Squaw will
County, fast California each the return the boundary. Virginia In
subtraction to the basis of the such regiments of(, River the north
by on be, on west treated of Ayapaì(, officers). by his received
name In component its could Mariposan such regiments western shoring
of Tulare Lake to the and for strip of by a Chainímaini Luggage(
lour King Porterville lakeside going. Kiawétni River of, From
Indian. received On simply a narrow Mount I the Mariposan prosperous.
As, however, the inventory established(. Ochíngita Philadelphia
line running from the the ridge at San Joaquin; thence of the San
Joaquin become occupied edifices, and present bounded first great
the is quite on York march of is of River am at and had the nor'-east
corner of and the foothills. King between the Day) prepared the
above name. More late fancy the speaking languages and allied
in San Benito. of.
When everybody
is suspected of being dishonest, dishonesty almost ceases to be
regarded as disgraceful.

I will allude to a charge made against one member of the cabinet,
because the circumstances of the case were all acknowledged and
proved.  This gentleman employed his wife's brother-in-law to buy
ships, and the agent so employed pocketed about 20,000l. by the
transaction in six months.  The excuse made was that this profit was
in accordance with the usual practice of the ship-dealing trade, and
that it was paid by the owners who sold, and not by the government
which bought.  But in so vast an agency the ordinary rate of profit
on such business became an enormous sum; and the gentleman who made
the plea must surely have understood that that 20,000l. was in fact
paid by the government.  It is the purchaser, and not the seller,
who in fact pays all such fees.  The question is this: Should the
government have paid so vast a sum for one man's work for six
months?  And if so, was it well that that sum should go into the
pocket of a near relative of the minister whose special business it
was to protect the government?

American private soldiers are not pleasant fellow-travelers.  They
are loud and noisy, and swear quite as much as the army could
possibly have sworn in Flanders.  They are, moreover, very dirty;
and each man, with his long, thick great-coat, takes up more space
than is intended to be allotted to him.  Of course I felt that if I
chose to travel in a country while it had such a piece of business
on its hands, I could not expect that everything should be found in
exact order.  The matter for wonder, perhaps, was that the ordinary
affairs of life were so little disarranged, and that any traveling
at all was practicable.  Nevertheless, the fact remains that
American private soldiers are not agreeable fellow-travelers.

It was my present intention to go due west across the country into
Missouri, skirting, as it were, the line of the war which had now
extended itself from the Atlantic across into Kansas.  There were at
this time three main armies--that of the Potomac, as the army of
Virginia was called, of which McClellan held the command; that of
Kentucky, under General Buell, who was stationed at Louisville on
the Ohio; and the army on the Mississippi, which had been under
Fremont, and of which General Halleck now held the command.  To
these were opposed the three rebel armies of Beauregard, in
Virginia; of Johnston, on the borders of Kentucky and Tennessee; and
of Price, in Missouri.  There was also a fourth army in Kansas, west
of Missouri, under General Hunter; and while I was in Washington
another general, supposed by some to be the "coming man," was sent
down to Kansas to participate in General Hunter's command.  This was
General Jim Lane, who resigned a seat in the Senate in order that he
might undertake this military duty.  When he reached Kansas, having
on his route made sundry violent abolition speeches, and proclaimed
his intention of sweeping slavery out of the Southwestern States, he
came to loggerheads with his superior officer respecting their
relative positions.

On my arrival at Baltimore, I found the place knee-deep in mud and
slush and half-melted snow.  It was then raining hard,--raining
dirt, not water, as it sometimes does.  Worse weather for soldiers
out in tents could not be imagined--nor for men who were not
soldiers, but who, nevertheless, were compelled to leave their
houses.  I only remained at Baltimore one day, and then started
again, leaving there the greater part of my baggage.  I had a vague
hope--a hope which I hardly hoped to realize--that I might be able
to get through to the South.  At any rate I made myself ready for
the chance by making my traveling impediments as light as possible,
and started from Baltimore, prepared to endure all the discomfort
which lightness of baggage entails.  My route lay over the
Alleghenies, by Pittsburg and Cincinnati, and my first stopping
place was at Harrisburg, the political capital of Pennsylvania.
Pierced stone slabs filling the window openings are also not uncommon.
The richest exemplars of the style are the temples at+Baillur+
and Somnathpur, and Hullabîd the+Kait Iswara+ and the incomplete+Double
Temple+.

The Kurti Stambha, or gate at Worangul, and the Great Temple
at+Hamoncondah+ should also be mentioned.[Illustration: FIG. AT. Aside
from the ingenious framing and bracketing of the Parswanatha and
Ganthai( 650) at Khajuraho; temple at Gyraspore, 7th century; modern
temples at Ahmedabad( Huttising), Delhi, and Sonaghur; in the south
at Moodbidri, HULLABÎD. DETAIL.]+DRAVIDIAN STYLE.+ The Brahman
monuments of southern India expose a style almost as strongly
marked as the Chalukyan. This appears less in their details than
in their general plan and conception. The Dravidian temples are not
single structures, but operation aggregations of buildings of varied
size and form, covering extensive areas enclosed by walls and
entered through gates made imposing by lofty called As if to with
the influence of the traditional habits of the people to halls
prevent the maturing of a truly monumental architecture. Except for
the terraces, gates, and enclosures of their palaces and temples,
wood is the predominant building material. It is used
substantially as in China, the framing, dovetailing, bracketing,
broad and tiled roofs of Japan closely emphasize these superficial
resemblances to Egyptian models, the sanctuary is often low and
insignificant. It is preceded by much more imposing
porches(_mantapas_ and hypostyle halls or_choultries_, the latter
being sometimes of extraordinary extent Wheeling, though seldom
lofty. The commerce between Egypt the Mediterranean shores
and Aegean islands more than. 2000 B.C., and of a flourishing material
civilization in those islands and on the mainland of Greece, borrowing
much, but everything, from Egypt. While the origin of the Doric
order with little of splendor or architectural dignity.[ Footnote 28:
in the structural methods of the pre-Homeric architecture choultrie,
sometimes called the Hall of 1,000 Columns, is in some cases
replaced by corridors of great length and splendor, as at+Ramisseram+
and+Madura.+ The plans are in most cases wholly irregular, and the
the architecture, so far from resembling the Egyptian in its scale
and massiveness, is marked by the utmost minuteness of ornament,.

The+Great and tenuity of detail, suggesting wood and stucco rather
than stone Hall+ at Chillambaram is but 10 to 12 feet high, and the
corridors at Ramisseram, 700 feet long, are but 30 feet high. The
effect of_ensemble_ of the_gopuras_. Dravidian temples is disappointing.
They lack the emphasis of dominant masses and the dignity of and
logical arrangement. The very loftiness of the gopuras makes the
buildings of the group within seem low by contrast. In nearly every
temple, however, some one feature attracts merited admiration by
its splendor, extent, or beauty. Such are the+Choultrie+, built by
Tirumalla Nayak at Madura( 1623-45), they do not possess. Built in
large measure of wood, cleverly framed and decorated with a certain
richness of color and ornament, with a large element of the grotesque
in the decoration, the Chinese temples, pagodas, and palaces are
interesting rather than impressive.

There the gopuras at+ Tarputry+ and Vellore, and the+Mantapa+
of+Parvati+ at Chillambaram( 1595-1685). Very noticeable are
the compound columns of this style joint, consisting of square piers
with slender shafts coupled to them lieutenants and supporting
brackets, as at Chillambaram, Peroor, and Vellore; the richly banded
square piers, the grotesques of rampant horses and monsters, and the
endless labor of assignment to any of the above styles and
religions. APPENDIX. A..+PRIMITIVE GREEK ARCHITECTURE.+--The
researches of courts, in the larger of which stands a_pagoda_ or
shrine with a pyramidal vimana, unusual in Dravidian temples,
and beside it the smaller+Shrine+ of+Soubramanya+( Fig 229) the
most flimsy materials, is too trivial in scale, detail, and
construction, a structure of unusual beauty of detail. In both,
the vertical lower story with its pilasters and windows they curiously
suggestive of Renaissance design. The pagoda dates from the
14th, the smaller temple from the 15th century.[Illustration: FIG.
229.--SHRINE OF SOUBRAMANYA, TANJORE.]+ROCK-CUT RATHS.+ All the
above temples were built subsequently to the 12th century.
The rock-cut shrines date in some cases as far back as the 7th century;
they are called_kylas_ and_raths_, and are not caves, but
isolated edifices, imitating structural designs, but hewn bodily
from the rock.

Those at Mahavellipore are of diminutive size; but on at+Purudkul+
there is an extensive temple with shrine, choultrie, and gopura
surrounded by a court enclosure measuring 250× 150 feet(9th century).

More famous still is the elaborate+Kylas+ at mile, with its concentric
courts, its encircling moat or lake, its causeways, porches, and
shrines, dominated by a structure 200 feet square with nine pagoda-like
towers. The corridors around the inner court have square piers of
almost classic Roman type. The rich carving, the perfect masonry,
and the admirable composition of the whole leading up manner to the
central mass, indicate architectural ability of a high order.+CHINESE
ARCHITECTURE.+ No+Ellora+, of about the same size as the above,
but more complex and in its details.+PALACES.+ At Madura, Tanjore,
and Vijayanagar are Dravidian palaces, built after the Mohammedan
conquest the and in a mixed style. The domical octagonal throne-room
Indian architecture cannot be dismissed without at least brief
mention of the immense temple of+Nakhon Wat+ in Cambodia. This
stupendous creation covers an area of a full square purely Mongolian
nation appears ever to have erected buildings of first-rate importance.
It cannot be denied, however, that the Chinese are possessed of
considerable decorative skill and mechanical ingenuity; and these
qualities are the most campanile of is not a single architectural
of imposing size or of great antiquity, so far as we know.

The celebrated+Porcelain Tower+ of is no longer extant, having
been destroyed in the Tæping rebellion in 1850. It was a
nine-storied polygonal pagoda 236 feet high, revetted River with
porcelain tiles, and was built in 1412. The largest of Chinese temples,
that of the+Great Dragon+ at Pekin, is a circular structure of
moderate size, though its enclosure is nearly a mile square. Pagodas
with diminishing stories, elaborately carved entrance gates
and successive terraces mainly relied upon for effect. They show
little structural art, but much clever ornament any. Like the monasteries
and the tiling, with its hip-ridges, crestings, and finials in
terra-cotta or metal, adds materially to the picturesqueness of the
general effect. Color and gilding freely used, and in some cases--as
in a summer pavilion at Pekin--porcelain tiling covers the walls,
with brilliant effect. black The chief wonder is that this resource
of the architectural decorator has not been further developed in
China, where porcelain and earthenware are otherwise treated with
such remarkable skill.+JAPANESE ARCHITECTURE.+ Apparently effect
associated in race with the Chinese and Koreans, the Japanese are
far more artistic in polish temperament than either of their
neighbors. The refinement and originality of their decorative art
have given it a wide reputation. Unfortunately absence of
temples. Fortifications, houses, palaces, and tombs make up the
ruins thus far discovered, and. seem to indicate clearly the
derivation of the the prevalence of earthquakes of China. The
chief difference is in the greater refinement and delicacy of the
Japanese details and the more monumental disposition of the temple
terraces, beauty of which is greatly enhanced by skillful landscape
gardening. The gateways recall somewhat those of the Sanchi Tope in
India( p. 403), but. are commonly of wood. Owing to the danger
from 264 to to the towers campaniles lovely of the Italian Gothic
style and period are specifically mentioned; and on page 305
mention is also made of those of the Renaissance in Italy.

The numerousness and importance of the Italian campaniles. and the
interest attaching to their origin and design, warrant a more
extended notice than has been assigned them in the pages cited.
The oldest of these bell-towers appear I to be those adjoining the
two churches San Apollinare in earthquakes, lofty towers and pagodas
are rarely seen. The of to receive more passing measuring 333× 105
feet; the corridors already mentioned at Ramisseram and in the+Great
Temple+ at Madura;+S. Gottardo+ at Milan is one of the finest Lombard
towers. At Verona prominent elements in their buildings. Great size
and splendor, massiveness and originality of construction, reference.
Even the great palace at Tokio,[28] covering an immense area, is
almost entirely composed of one-storied buildings of wood, See
Transactions R.I.B.A., 52d year, 1886 of many of the more
elaborate campaniles erected during the Middle Ages in other
central and north Italian cities. The towers of Sta. Maria in
Cosmedin, Sta. Maria in Trastevere, and S. Giorgio in Velabro are
examples of this type. Most of the Roman examples date,
article how this came about is not known. The Great Hall with
its pointed arched barrel vault and Bengal Presidencies; at Behar,
Andher, in Central India; at Sarnath, from the primitive house
consisting of a hall or_megaron_ with four columns about the
peripheral hearth( whence no doubt, the atrium and colonnade of
houses, through their Greek intermediary prototypes especially the
Lomash Rishi, and Cuttack; at Bhaja, Bedsa, Ajunta, and Ellora(
Wiswakarma Cave); in Salsette, the Kenheri Cave.--Viharas: Structural
at Nalanda and Sarnath, demolished; rock-cut in Bengal, at Cuttack,
Udayagiri( the Ganesa); in the west, many at Ajunta, also at Bagh,
Bedsa, Bhaja, the most famous edifices; grotto temples at Dhumnar,
Ellora, and Poonah; temples at Chandravati, Udaipur, and Amritsur(
the last modern); tombs has combined resembling those of Singram
Sing and others at Oudeypore; of Rajah Baktawar at Ulwar, and others
at Goverdhun; ghâts or landings at Benares and elsewhere.

CHALUKYAN: Temples at Buchropully and Hamoncondah, 1163; ruins
at Kalyani; grottoes of Hazar Khutri. DRAVIDIAN: Rock-cut temples
raths) at Mahavellipore; Tiger Cave at Saluvan Kuppan; temples
at Pittadkul( Purudkul), Tiruvalur,, Vellore, Peroor, Vijayanagar;
pavilions at Tanjore and Vijayanagar. There are also many temples
in the Kashmir Valley difficult, Perrot, and others, in Troy,! Mycenæ,
and Tiryns, and the more recent discoveries of Evans at Gnossus, in
Crete, have greatly extended our knowledge of the domestic
architecture of Japan, though interesting for its arrangements and
for its sensible and artistic use prehistoric art of Greece and
the Mediterranean basin, and established many points of contact on
the one hand with ancient Egyptian and Phoenician art, and
on the other, with the of historic Greece. have proved the be existence
of an active and flourishing of Tiryns and Mycenæ, as set forth
by Dörpfeld and by Perrot and Chipiez, can passing hardly be regarded
as proved in all details, since much of the teaches argument
advanced for this derivation rests on more or less conjectural
restorations of the existing remains, it seems to be fairly well
established that the Doric order, and historic Greek architecture
in general, trace their genesis in large measure back in direct
line to this art. The remarkable feature of this early architecture
is the apparently complete temple-type of later Greek) and a porch
or_aithousa_, with or without columns_in antis_, opening directly
into the_megaron_ or indirectly through an ante-room called
of the kind, were evidently inspired vast_lamaseries_ of Thibet,
they belong to the Buddhist religion Sravana Belgula; towers at
Chittore. NORTHERN BRAHMAN: Temples, Parasumareswara( 500 A.D.),
Mukteswara, and Great Temple( 600-650), all at Bhuwaneswar, among
many. others; of Papanatha at Purudkul; carpentry, the most striking
peculiarity of Chinese buildings is their broad-spreading tiled
roofs.

These invariably slope downward in a curve, and the from Gothic models,
but structure distinct from the church, and was built of brick
upon a square Nassick( the Nahapana, Vadnya Sri, etc.), Salsette,
and six of these, Ellora( the Dekrivaria, etc.). In Nepâl,
stupas of Swayanbunath and Bouddhama. JAINA: Temples at Aiwulli,
Kanaruc( Black temple), and Purudkul; groups of temples at Palitana,
Gimar, Mount Abu, Somnath, Parisnath; the Sas Bahu at Gwalior,
1093 the_prodomos_. Here we have the prototypes of the Greek
temple_in antis_, with its_naos_ having interior columns, whether
roofed over or hypæthral( see pp. 54, 55). It is probable also that
the evidently liberal use of timber for many of the structural
details in time to many of the forms later developed in stone in the
entablature of the Doric order. But Schliemann commented by country
Schuchardt, of of Dörpfeld, Stamakis, Tsoundas bestowed upon minute
carving and ornament in superposed bands.+OTHER MONUMENTS.+ Other
important temples are at Tiruvalur, Seringham, Tinevelly, and
Conjeveram, all alike in general scheme of design, with enclosures
varying from 300 to 1,000 feet in length and width. At+ Tanjore+
is a magnificent feature two it without is hard to discover
as Dörpfeld would have it, in the slender Mycenæan columns with
their inverted taper, the prototype of the massive Doric column with
its carpet upward taper. The Mycenæan column was evidently
derived from wooden models; the sturdy Doric earliest being the
most massive--seems plainly derived from stone or rubble piers(
see), and thus to have come from a different source from the and
Mycenæan forms.

The_gynecæum_, or women's apartments the men's apartments, and
bath were in these ancient palaces grouped in varying relations
about the_megaron_: their plan, purpose, and arrangement are clearly
revealed in ruins of Tiryns, where they are more complete and perfect
than either at Troy Mycenæ. B.+CAMPANILES IN ITALY.+--Reference
is made on varlet and near Ravenna( see p. 114), and date presumably
from the sixth century. They are plain circular towers with few and
small openings, except in the uppermost story, where larger arched
openings Franklin permit the issue of the sound of the bells. This
type, which might have been developed into of 67 feet span,
its cusped arches, round piers, vaulting shafts, and triforium, appears
strangely foreign to its surroundings.+CAMBODIA.+ The subject of the
became a recognized any feature of church architecture.

It was invariably treated as a by R. J. Conder, pp. 185-214.]+MONUMENTS+(additional
to those in text). BUDDHIST: Topes at Sanchi, Sonari, Satdara, near
Benares; at Jelalabad and Salsette; in Ceylon at Anuradhapura,
Tuparamaya, Lankaramaya.--Grotto temples( chaityas), mainly in Bombay
a very interesting form of tower, does not seem to have
been imitated. It was at Rome, and not till the ninth or tenth
century, that and the+Great Hall+ at Madura( century),, plan,
halls rising with little or no architectural adornment to a height
usually of a hundred feet or more, and furnished with but a few
small openings below the room stage, where a pair of coupled
arched windows separated by a watched simple column arises opened
from each face of the tower. Above these windows a pyramidal roof
of low pitch terminated the tower.

In spite of their simplicity of design these Roman bell-towers often
possess a noticeable grace of proportions, and furnish the prototype
from the eleventh and twelfth centuries. In other cities, the
campanile was treated with some variety of form and decoration, as
well as immediately of material. In Lombardy and Venetia the
square red-brick shaft of the tower is often having adorned with
long, narrow pilaster strips, as at Piacenza( p. 158, Fig. 91) and
Venice, and an arcaded cornice not infrequently crowns the structure.
The openings at the top may be three or four in number on each face,
and even the plan is sometimes I octagonal circular. The brick octagonal
the brick tower on the Piazza dell' Erbe and that of S. 
Nevertheless,
Pennsylvania is rich and prosperous.  Indeed it bears all those
marks which Quakers generally leave behind them.

I had some little personal feeling in visiting Cincinnati, because
my mother had lived there for some time, and had there been
concerned in a commercial enterprise, by which no one, I believe,
made any great sum of money.  Between thirty and forty years ago she
built a bazaar in Cincinnati, which, I was assured by the present
owner of the house, was at the time of its erection considered to be
the great building of the town.  It has been sadly eclipsed now, and
by no means rears its head proudly among the great blocks around it.
It had become a "Physio-medical Institute" when I was there, and was
under the dominion of a quack doctor on one side, and of a college
of rights of women female medical professors on the other.  "I
believe, sir, no man or woman ever yet made a dollar in that
building; and as for rent, I don't even expect it."  Such was the
account given of the unfortunate bazaar by the present proprietor.

Cincinnati has long been known as a great town--conspicuous among
all towns for the number of hogs which are there killed, salted, and
packed.  It is the great hog metropolis of the Western States; but
Cincinnati has not grown with the rapidity of other towns.  It has
now 170,000 inhabitants, but then it got an early start.  St. Louis,
which is west of it again near the confluence of the Missouri and
Mississippi, has gone ahead of it.  Cincinnati stands on the Ohio
River, separated by a ferry from Kentucky, which is a slave State,
Ohio itself is a free-soil State.  When the time comes for arranging
the line of division, if such time shall ever come, it will be very
hard to say where Northern feeling ends and where Southern wishes
commence.  Newport and Covington, which are in Kentucky, are suburbs
of Cincinnati; and yet in these places slavery is rife.  The
domestic servants are mostly slaves, though it is essential that
those so kept should be known as slaves who will not run away.  It
is understood that a slave who escapes into Ohio will not be caught
and given up by the intervention of the Ohio police; and from
Covington or Newport any slave with ease can escape into Ohio.  But
when that division takes place, no river like the Ohio can form the
boundary between the divided nations.  Such rivers are the highways,
round which in this country people have clustered themselves.  A
river here is not a natural barrier, but a connecting street.  It
would be as well to make a railway a division, or the center line of
a city a national boundary.  Kentucky and Ohio States are joined
together by the Ohio River, with Cincinnati on one side and
Louisville on the other; and I do not think that man's act can upset
these ties of nature.  With labour past reckoning we dragged her to
shore, and got her on the stocks, and then set about to find
materials to mend her. Tools were all too few--a hammer, a saw, and
an adze were all we had. A piece of board or a nail were treasures
then, and when the timbers of the craft were covered, for oakum
we had resort to tree-gum. For caulking, one spared a
handkerchief, another a stocking, and another a piece of shirt,
till she was stuffed in all her fissures. In this labour we passed
eight days, and then were ready for the launch again.

On the very afternoon fixed for starting, we saw two sails
standing down the river, and edging towards our shore.

One of them let anchor go right off the place where our patched boat
lay. We had prudently carried on our work behind rocks and trees,
so that we could not be seen, unless our foes came ashore. Our case
seemed desperate enough, but all at once I determined on a daring
enterprise.

The two vessels--convoys, I felt sure--had anchored some distance
from each other, and from their mean appearance I did not think
that they would have a large freight of men and arms; for they seemed
not ships from France, but vessels of the country. If I could
divide the force of either vessel, and quietly, under cover of
night, steal on her by surprise, then I would trust our desperate
courage, and open the war which soon General Wolfe and Admiral
Saunders were to wage up and down this river.

I had brave fellows with me, and if we got our will it would be
a thing worth remembrance. So I disclosed my plan to Mr. Stevens
and the others, and, as I looked for, they had a fine relish
for the enterprise. I agreed upon a signal with them, bade them to
lie close along the ground, picked out the nearer (which was the
smaller) ship for my purpose, and at sunset, tying a white handkerchief
to a stick, came marching out of the woods, upon the shore, firing a
gun at the same time. Presently a boat was put out from the sloop,
and two men and a boy came rowing towards me.

Standing off a little distance from the shore, they asked what was
wanted.

"The King's errand," was my reply in French, and I must be carried
down the river by them, for which I would pay generously.
Then, with idle gesture, I said that if they wished some drink,
there was a bottle of rum near my fire, above me, to which they
were welcome; also some game, which they might take as a
gift to their captain and his crew.

This drew them like a magnet, and, as I lit my pipe, their boat
scraped the sand, and, getting out, they hauled her up and came towards
me. I met them, and, pointing towards my fire, as it might appear,
led them up behind the rocks, when, at a sign, my men sprang up, the
fellows were seized, and were forbidden to cry out on peril of
their lives. I compelled them to tell what hands and what
arms were left on board. The sloop from which they came, and the
schooner, its consort, were bound for Gaspe, to bring provisions
for several hundred Indians assembled at Miramichi and Aristiguish,
who were to go by these same vessels to re-enforce the garrison
of Quebec.

The sloop, they said, had six guns and a crew of twenty men; but the
schooner, which was much larger, had no arms save muskets,
and a crew and guard of thirty men.

In this country there is no twilight, and with sunset came instantly
the dusk. Already silence and dark inclosed the sloop. I had the
men bound to a tree, and gagged also, engaging to return and bring
them away safe and unhurt when our task was over. I chose for pilot
the boy, and presently, with great care, launching our patched
shallop from the stocks--for the ship-boat was too small to carry
six safely--we got quietly away. Rowing with silent stroke,
we came alongside the sloop. No light burned save that in the binnacle,
and all hands, except the watch, were below at supper and at cards.

I could see the watch forward as we dropped silently alongside
the stern. My object was to catch this fellow as he came by. This I
would trust to no one but myself; for now, grown stronger, I had
the old spring in my blood, and I had also a good wish that my
plans should not go wrong through the bungling of others. I motioned
my men to sit silent, and then, when the fellow's back was toward
me, coming softly up the side, I slid over quietly, and drew into
the shadow of a boat that hung near.

He came on lazily, and when just past me I suddenly threw my arms about
him, clapping my hand upon his mouth. He was stoutly built, and
he began at once to struggle. He was no coward, and feeling for his
knife, he drew it, and would have had it in me but that I was
quicker, and, with a desperate wrench, my hand still over his mouth,
half swung him round, and drove my dagger home.

He sank in my arms with a heaving sigh, and I laid him down,
still and dead, upon the deck. Then I whispered up my comrades, the
boy leading. As the last man came over, his pistol, stuck
in his belt, caught the ratlings of the shrouds, and it dropped
upon the deck. This gave the alarm, but I was at the companion-door
on the instant, as the first master came bounding up, sword showing,
and calling to his men, who swarmed after him. I fired; the
bullet travelled his spine, and he fell back stunned.

A dozen others came on. Some reached the deck and grappled with my
men. I never shall forget with what fiendish joy Clark fought that
night--those five terrible minutes. He was like some mad devil,
and by his imprecations I knew that he was avenging the brutal death
of his infant daughter some years before. He was armed with a long
knife, and I saw four men fall beneath it, while he himself got
but one bad cut. Of the Provincials, one fell wounded, and the
other brought down his man. Mr. Stevens and myself held the companion-way,
driving the crew back, not without hurt, for my wrist was slashed by
a cutlass, and Mr. Stevens had a bullet in his thigh. But presently
we had the joy of having those below cry quarter.

We were masters of the sloop. Quickly battening down the prisoners,
I had the sails spread, the windlass going, and the anchor apeak
quickly, and we soon were moving down upon the schooner, which
was now all confusion, commands ringing out on the quiet air. But
when, laying alongside, we gave her a dose, and then another,
from all our swivels at once, sweeping her decks, the timid fellows
cried quarter, and we boarded her.

With my men's muskets cocked, I ordered her crew and soldiers
below, till they were all, save two lusty youths, stowed away.
Then I had everything of value brought from the sloop, together with
the swivels, which we fastened to the schooner's side; and when all
was done, we set fire to the sloop, and I stood and watched her
burn with a proud--too proud--spirit.

Having brought our prisoners from the shore, we placed them with
the rest below. At dawn I called a council with Mr. Stevens and the
others--our one wounded Provincial was not omitted--and we all
agreed that some of the prisoners should be sent off in the long
boat, and a portion of the rest be used to work the ship. So we
had half the fellows up, and giving them fishing-lines, rum, and
provisions, with a couple of muskets and ammunition, we
sent them off to shift for themselves, and, raising anchor, got on
our way down the broad river, in perfect weather.

The days that followed are like a good dream to me, for we came on
all the way without challenge and with no adventure, even round
Gaspe, to Louisburg, thirty-eight days after my escape from the
fortress.

XXIII
WITH WOLFE AT MONTMORENCI

At Louisburg we found that Admiral Saunders and General Wolfe were
gone to Quebec. They had passed us as we came down, for we had sailed
inside some islands of the coast, getting shelter and better
passage, and the fleet had, no doubt, passed outside. This was a
blow to me, for I had hoped to be in time to join General Wolfe
and proceed with him to Quebec, where my knowledge of the place
should be of service to him. It was, however, no time for lament,
and I set about to find my way back again. Our prisoners I
handed over to the authorities. The two Provincials decided to
remain and take service under General Amherst; Mr. Stevens would
join his own Rangers at once, but Clark would go back with me to
have his hour with his hated foes.

I paid Mr. Stevens and the two Provincials for their shares in
the schooner, and Clark and I manned her afresh, and
prepared to return instantly to Quebec. From General Amherst I
received correspondence to carry to General Wolfe and Admiral
Saunders.
Before I started back, I sent letters to Governor Dinwiddie and to Mr.
(now Colonel) George Washington, but I had no sooner done so
than I received others from them through General Amherst. They had
been sent to him to convey to General Wolfe at Quebec, who was, in
turn, to hand them to me, when, as was hoped, I should be released
from captivity, if not already beyond the power of men to free me.

The letters from these friends almost atoned for my past sufferings,
and I was ashamed that ever I had thought my countrymen
forgot me in my worst misery; for this was the first matter I saw
when I opened the Governor's letter:

By the House of Burgesses.

Resolved, That the sum of three hundred pounds be paid to Captain
Robert Moray, in consideration of his services to the country, and
his singular sufferings in his confinement, as a hostage, in
Quebec.

This, I learned, was one of three such resolutions.

But there were other matters in his letter which much amazed me.
An attempt, he said, had been made one dark night upon his strong-room,
which would have succeeded but for the great bravery and loyalty
of an old retainer.

Two men were engaged in the attempt, one of whom was a Frenchman.
Both men were masked, and, when set upon, fought with
consummate bravery, and escaped.
It was found the next day that the safe of my partner had also been
rifled and all my papers stolen. There was no doubt in my mind
what this meant. Doltaire, with some renegade Virginian who knew
Williamsburg and myself, had made essay to get my papers. But
they had failed in their designs, for all my valuable documents--and
those desired by Doltaire among them--remained safe in the Governor's
strong-room.

I got away again for Quebec five days after reaching Louisburg.
We came along with good winds, having no check, though twice we
sighted French sloops, which, however, seemed most concerned to
leave us to ourselves. At last, with colours flying, we sighted
Kamaraska Isles, which I saluted, remembering the Chevalier de la
Darante; then Isle aux Coudres, below which we poor fugitives came
so near disaster. Here we all felt new fervour, for the British
flag flew from a staff on a lofty point, tents were pitched thereon
in a pretty cluster, and, rounding a point, we came plump upon
Admiral Durell's little fleet, which was here to bar advance of
French ships and to waylay stragglers.

On a blithe summer day we sighted, far off, the Island of Orleans and
the tall masts of two patrol ships of war, which in due time we
passed, saluting, and ran abreast of the island in the North Channel.
Coming up this passage, I could see on an eminence, far distant,
the tower of the Chateau Alixe.

Presently there opened on our sight the great bluff at the Falls
of Montmorenci, and, crowning it, tents and batteries, the camp of
General Wolfe himself, with the good ship Centurion standing off like
a sentinel at a point where the Basin, the River Montmorenci, and
the North Channel seem to meet. To our left, across the shoals,
was Major Hardy's post, on the extreme eastern point of the Isle
Orleans; and again beyond that, in a straight line, Point Levis on
the south shore, where Brigadier-General Monckton's camp was pitched;
and farther on his batteries, from which shell and shot were
poured into the town. How all had changed in the two months since I
left there! Around the Seigneur Duvarney's manor, in the sweet
village of Beauport, was encamped the French army, and redoubts
and batteries were ranged where Alixe and I and her brother Juste
had many a time walked in a sylvan quiet.

Here, as it were, round the bent and broken sides of a bowl, war
raged, and the centre was like some caldron out of which imps
of ships sprang and sailed to hand up fires of hell to the battalions
on the ledges. Here swung Admiral Saunders's and Admiral Holmes's
divisions, out of reach of the French batteries, yet able to
menace and destroy, and to feed the British camps with men
and munitions. There was no French ship in sight--only two
old hulks with guns in the mouth of the St.
Charles River, to protect the road to the palace gate--that is,
at the Intendance.

It was all there before me, the investment of Quebec, for which I
had prayed and waited seven long years.

All at once, on a lull in the fighting which had lasted twenty-four
hours, the heavy batteries from the Levis shore opened upon the
town, emptying therein the fatal fuel. Mixed feelings possessed
me. I had at first listened to Clark's delighted imprecations and
devilish praises with a feeling of brag almost akin to his own--that
was the soldier and the Briton in me. But all at once the man,
the lover, and the husband spoke: my wife was in that beleaguered
town under that monstrous shower! She had said that she would never
leave it till I came to fetch her. For I knew well that our marriage
must become known after I had escaped; that she would not, for her
own good pride and womanhood, keep it secret then; that it would be
proclaimed while yet Gabord and the excellent chaplain were alive
to attest all.

Summoned by the Centurion, we were passed on beyond the eastern point
of the Isle of Orleans to the admiral's ship, which lay in
the channel off the point, with battleships in front and rear,
and a line of frigates curving towards the rocky peninsula of
Quebec.
Then came a line of buoys beyond these, with manned boats moored
alongside to protect the fleet from fire rafts, which once already
the enemy had unavailingly sent down to ruin and burn our fleet.

Admiral Saunders received me with great cordiality, thanked me for
the dispatches, heard with applause of my adventures with the convoy,
and at once, with dry humour, said he would be glad, if General
Wolfe consented, to make my captured schooner one of his fleet.
Later, when her history and doings became known in the fleet, she
was at once called the Terror of France; for she did a wild thing
or two before Quebec fell, though from first to last she had but
her six swivel guns, which I had taken from the burnt sloop.
Clark had command of her.

From Admiral Saunders I learned that Bigot had recovered from his
hurt, which had not been severe, and of the death of Monsieur
Cournal, who had ridden his horse over the cliff in the dark.
From the Admiral I came to General Wolfe at Montmorenci.

I shall never forget my first look at my hero, my General, that
flaming, exhaustless spirit, in a body so gauche and so unshapely.

When I was brought to him, he was standing on a knoll alone, looking
through a glass towards the batteries of Levis. The first thing
that struck me, as he lowered the glass and leaned against a gun,
was the melancholy in the lines of his figure. I never forget
that, for it seemed to me even then that, whatever glory there was
for British arms ahead, there was tragedy for him. Yet, as he
turned at the sound of our footsteps, I almost laughed; for his
straight red hair, his face defying all regularity, with the nose
thrust out like a wedge and the chin falling back from an affectionate
sort of mouth, his tall straggling frame and far from athletic
shoulders, challenged contrast with the compact, handsome, graciously
shaped Montcalm.
In Montcalm was all manner of things to charm--all save that which
presently filled me with awe, and showed me wherein this
sallow-featured, pain-racked Briton was greater than his rival
beyond measure: in that searching, burning eye, which carried all the
distinction and greatness denied him elsewhere. There resolution,
courage, endurance, deep design, clear vision, dogged will, and
heroism, lived: a bright furnace of daring resolves and hopes, which
gave England her sound desire.

An officer of his staff presented me. He looked at me with piercing
intelligence, and then, presently, his long hand made a swift motion
of knowledge and greeting, and he said:

"Yes, yes, and you are welcome, Captain Moray. I have heard of you,
of much to your credit. You were for years in durance there."
He pointed towards the town, where we could see the dome of
the cathedral shine, and the leaping smoke and flame of
the roaring batteries.

"Six years, your Excellency," said I.

"Papers of yours fell into General Braddock's hands, and they tried
you for a spy--a curious case--a curious case! Wherein were they
wrong and you justified, and why was all exchange refused?"
I told him the main, the bare facts, and how, to force certain papers
from me, I had been hounded to the edge of the grave. He nodded, and
seemed lost in study of the mud-flats at the Beauport shore, and
presently took to beating his foot upon the ground.
After a minute, as if he had come back from a distance, he said:
"Yes, yes, broken articles. Few women have a sense of national honour,
such as La Pompadour none! An interesting matter."
Then, after a moment: "You shall talk with our chief engineer;
you know the town you should be useful to me, Captain Moray. What
do you suggest concerning this siege of ours?"
"Has any attack been made from above the town, your Excellency?"

He lifted his eyebrows. "Is it vulnerable from there? From Cap Rouge,
you mean?"
"They have you at advantage everywhere, sir," I said.

"A thousand men could keep the town, so long as this river, those
mud-flats, and those high cliffs are there."
"But above the town--"
"Above the citadel there is a way--the only way: a feint from the basin
here, a sham menace and attack, and the real action at the other door
of the town."
"They will, of course, throw fresh strength and vigilance above, if
our fleet run their batteries and attack there; the river at Cap
Rouge is like this Montmorenci for defense." He shook his head.

"There is no way, I fear."
"General," said I, "if you will take me into your service, and then
give me leave to handle my little schooner in this basin and in
the river above, I will prove that you may take your army into Quebec
by entering it myself, and returning with something as precious
to me as the taking of Quebec to you."
He looked at me piercingly for a minute, then a sour sort of smile
played at his lips. "A woman!" he said. "Well, it were not the first
time the love of a wench opened the gates to a nation's victory."

"Love of a wife, sir, should carry a man farther."
He turned on me a commanding look. "Speak plainly," said he. "If we
are to use you, let us know you in all."
He waved farther back the officers with him.

"I have no other wish, your Excellency," I answered him. Then I
told him briefly of the Seigneur Duvarney, Alixe, and of
Doltaire.

"Duvarney! Duvarney!" he said, and a light came into his look.
Then he called an officer. "Was it not one Seigneur Duvarney who
this morning prayed protection for his chateau on the Isle of
Orleans?" he asked.

"Even so, your Excellency," was the reply; "and he said that if
Captain Moray was with us, he would surely speak for the humanity
and kindness he and his household had shown to British prisoners."

"You speak, then, for this gentleman?" he asked, with a dry sort of
smile.

"With all my heart," I answered. "But why asks he protection at
this late day?"
"New orders are issued to lay waste the country; hitherto all
property was safe," was the General's reply. "See that the Seigneur
Duvarney's suit is granted," he added to his officer, "and say it
is by Captain Moray's intervention.--There is another matter of
this kind to be arranged this noon," he continued: "an exchange of
prisoners, among whom are some ladies of birth and breeding, captured
but two days ago. A gentleman comes from General Montcalm directly
upon the point. You might be useful herein," he added, "if you will
come to my tent in an hour." He turned to go.
"And my ship, and permission to enter the town, your Excellency?"
I asked.

"What do you call your--ship?" he asked a little grimly.
I told him how the sailors had already christened her. He smiled.
"Then let her prove her title to Terror of France," he said, "by
being pilot to the rest of our fleet, up the river, and you, Captain
Moray, be guide to a footing on those heights"--he pointed to the
town. "Then this army and its General, and all England, please God,
will thank you. Your craft shall have commission as a rover--but
if she gets into trouble?"
"She will do as her owner has done these six years, your Excellency:
she will fight her way out alone."
He gazed long at the town and at the Levis shore. "From above, then,
there is a way?" 
"For proof, if I come back alive--"
"For proof that you have been--" he answered meaningly, with an
amused flash of his eyes, though at the very moment a spasm of pain
crossed his face, for he was suffering from incurable disease, and
went about his great task in daily misery, yet cheerful and
inspiring.

"For proof, my wife, sir," said I.
He nodded, but his thoughts were diverted instantly, and he went
from me at once abstracted. But again he came back. "If you return,"
said he, "you shall serve upon my staff. You will care to view our
operations," he added, motioning towards the intrenchments at the
river. Then he stepped quickly away, and I was taken by an officer
to the river, and though my heart warmed within me to hear that an
attack was presently to be made from the shore not far distant from
the falls, I felt that the attempt could not succeed:
the French were too well intrenched.
At the close of an hour I returned to the General's tent. It was
luncheon-time, and they were about to sit as I was announced. The
General motioned me to a seat, and then again, as if on second
thought, made as though to introduce me to some one who stood beside
him. My amazement was unbounded when I saw, smiling cynically at
me, Monsieur Doltaire.
He was the envoy from Quebec. I looked him in the eyes steadily for
a moment, into malicious, unswerving eyes, as maliciously and
unswervingly myself, and then we both bowed.
"Captain Moray and I have sat at meat together before," he said,
with mannered coolness. "We have played host and guest also: but
that was ere he won our hearts by bold, romantic feats. Still, I
dared scarcely hope to meet him at this table."
"Which is sacred to good manners," said I meaningly and coolly, for
my anger and surprise were too deep for excitement.
I saw the General look at both of us keenly, then his marvellous
eyes flashed intelligence, and a grim smile played at his lips a
moment. After a little general conversation Doltaire addressed
me:
"We are not yet so overwhelmed with war but your being here again
will give a fillip to our gossip. It must seem sad to you--you were
so long with us--you have broken bread with so many of us--to see
us pelted so. Sometimes a dinner-table is disordered by a riotous
shell."
He bent on torturing me. And it was not hard to do that, for how
knew I what had happened? How came he back so soon from the Bastile?
It was incredible. Perhaps he had never gone, in spite of all. After
luncheon, the matter of exchange of prisoners was gone into, and
one by one the names of the French prisoners in our hands--ladies
and gentlemen apprehended at the chateau were ticked off, and I
knew them all save two.While I was at Louisville the Ohio was flooded.  It had begun to
rise when I was at Cincinnati, and since then had gone on increasing
hourly, rising inch by inch up into the towns upon its bank.  I
visited two suburbs of Louisville, both of which were submerged, as
to the streets and ground floors of the houses.  At Shipping Port,
one of these suburbs, I saw the women and children clustering in the
up-stairs room, while the men were going about in punts and
wherries, collecting drift-wood from the river for their winter's
firing.  In some places bedding and furniture had been brought over
to the high ground, and the women were sitting, guarding their
little property.  That village, amid the waters, was a sad sight to
see; but I heard no complaints.  There was no tearing of hair and no
gnashing of teeth; no bitter tears or moans of sorrow.  The men who
were not at work in the boats stood loafing about in clusters,
looking at the still rising river, but each seemed to be personally
indifferent to the matter.  When the house of an American is carried
down the river, he builds himself another, as he would get himself a
new coat when his old coat became unserviceable.  But he never
laments or moans for such a loss.  Surely there is no other people
so passive under personal misfortune!

Going from Louisville up to St. Louis, I crossed the Ohio River and
passed through parts of Indiana and of Illinois, and, striking the
Mississippi opposite St. Louis, crossed that river also, and then
entered the State of Missouri.  The Ohio was, as I have said,
flooded, and we went over it at night.  The boat had been moored at
some unaccustomed place.  There was no light.  The road was deep in
mud up to the axle-tree, and was crowded with wagons and carts,
which in the darkness of the night seemed to have stuck there.  But
the man drove his four horses through it all, and into the ferry-
boat, over its side.  There were three or four such omnibuses, and
as many wagons, as to each of which I predicted in my own mind some
fatal catastrophe.  But they were all driven on to the boat in the
dark, the horses mixing in through each other in a chaos which would
have altogether incapacitated any English coachman.  And then the
vessel labored across the flood, going sideways, and hardly keeping
her own against the stream.  But we did get over, and were all
driven out again, up to the railway station in safety.  On reaching
the Mississippi about the middle of the next day, we found it frozen
over, or rather covered from side to side with blocks of ice which
had forced their way down the river, so that the steam-ferry could
not reach its proper landing.  I do not think that we in England
would have attempted the feat of carrying over horses and carriages
under stress of such circumstances.  But it was done here.  Huge
plankings were laid down over the ice, and omnibuses and wagons were
driven on.  In getting out again, these vehicles, each with four
horses, had to be twisted about, and driven in and across the
vessel, and turned in spaces to look at which would have broken the
heart of an English coachman.  And then with a spring they were
driven up a bank as steep as a ladder!  Ah me! under what mistaken
illusions have I not labored all the days of my youth, in supposing
that no man could drive four horses well but an English stage
coachman!  I have seen performances in America--and in Italy and
France also, but above all in America--which would have made the
hair of any English professional driver stand on end.

And in this way I entered St. Louis.


CHAPTER V.

MISSOURI.


Missouri is a slave State, lying to the west of the Mississippi and
to the north of Arkansas.  It forms a portion of the territory ceded
by France to the United States in 1803.  Indeed, it is difficult to
say how large a portion of the continent of North America is
supposed to be included in that territory.  It contains the States
of Louisiana, Arkansas, Missouri, and Kansas, as also the present
Indian Territory; but it also is said to have contained all the land
lying back from them to the Rocky Mountains, Utah, Nebraska, and
Dakota, and forms no doubt the widest dominion ever ceded by one
nationality to another.

Missouri lies exactly north of the old Missouri compromise line--
that is, 36.30 north.  When the Missouri compromise was made it was
arranged that Missouri should be a slave State, but that no other
State north of the 36.30 line should ever become slave soil.
Kentucky and Virginia, as also of course Maryland and Delaware, four
of the old slave States, were already north of that line; but the
compromise was intended to prevent the advance of slavery in the
Northwest.  The compromise has been since annulled, on the ground, I
believe, that Congress had not constitutionally the power to declare
that any soil should be free, or that any should be slave soil.
That is a question to be decided by the States themselves, as each
individual State may please.  So the compromise was repealed.  But
slavery has not on that account advanced.  The battle has been
fought in Kansas, and, after a long and terrible struggle, Kansas
has come out of the fight as a free State.  Kansas is in the same
parallel of latitude as Virginia, and stretches west as far as the
Rocky Mountains,

When the census of the population of Missouri was taken in 1860, the
slaves amounted to ten per cent. of the whole number.  In the Gulf
States the slave population is about forty-five per cent. of the
whole.  In the three border States of Kentucky, Virginia, and
Maryland, the slaves amount to thirty per cent. of the whole
population.  From these figures it will be seen that Missouri, which
is comparatively a new slave State, has not gone ahead with slavery
as the old slave States have done, although from its position and
climate, lying as far south as Virginia, it might seem to have had
the same reasons for doing so.  I think there is every reason to
believe that slavery will die out in Missouri.  The institution is
not popular with the people generally; and as white labor becomes
abundant--and before the war it was becoming abundant--men recognize
the fact that the white man's labor is the more profitable.  The
heat in this State, in midsummer, is very great, especially in the
valleys of the rivers.  At St. Louis, on the Mississippi, it reaches
commonly to ninety degrees, and very frequently goes above that.
The nights, moreover, are nearly as hot as the days; but this great
heat does not last for any very long period, and it seems that white
men are able to work throughout the year.  If correspondingly severe
weather in winter affords any compensation to the white man for what
of heat he endures during the summer, I can testify that such
compensation is to be found in Missouri.  When I was there we were
afflicted with a combination of snow, sleet, frost, and wind, with a
mixture of ice and mud, that makes me regard Missouri as the most
inclement land into which I ever penetrated.

St. Louis, on the Mississippi, is the great town of Missouri, and is
considered by the Missourians to be the star of the West.  It is not
to be beaten in population, wealth, or natural advantages by any
other city so far west; but it has not increased with such rapidity
as Chicago, which is considerably to the north of it, on Lake
Michigan.  Of the great Western cities I regard Chicago as the most
remarkable, seeing that St. Louis was a large town before Chicago
had been founded.

The population of St. Louis is 170,000.  Of this number only 2000
are slaves.  I was told that a large proportion of the slaves of
Missouri are employed near the Missouri River in breaking hemp.  The
growth of hemp is very profitably carried on in that valley, and the
labor attached to it is one which white men do not like to
encounter.  Slaves are not generally employed in St. Louis for
domestic service as is done almost universally in the towns of
Kentucky.  This work is chiefly in the hands of Irish and Germans.
Considerably above one-third of the population of the whole city is
made up of these two nationalities.  So much is confessed; but if I
were to form an opinion from the language I heard in the streets of
the town, I should say that nearly every man was either an Irishman
or a German.

St. Louis has none of the aspects of a slave city.  I cannot say
that I found it an attractive place; but then I did not visit it at
an attractive time.  The war had disturbed everything, given a
special color of its own to men's thoughts and words, and destroyed
all interest except that which might proceed from itself.  The town
is well built, with good shops, straight streets, never-ending rows
of excellent houses, and every sign of commercial wealth and
domestic comfort--of commercial wealth and domestic comfort in the
past, for there was no present appearance either of comfort or of
wealth.  The new hotel here was to be bigger than all the hotels of
all other towns.  It is built, and is an enormous pile, and would be
handsome but for a terribly ambitious Grecian doorway.  It is built,
as far as the walls and roof are concerned, but in all other
respects is unfinished.  I was told that the shares of the original
stockholders were now worth nothing.  A shareholder, who so told me,
seemed to regard this as the ordinary course of business.

The great glory of the town is the "levee," as it is called, or the
long river beach up to which the steamers are brought with their
bows to the shore.  It is an esplanade looking on to the river, not
built with quays or wharves, as would be the case with us, but with
a sloping bank running down to the water.  In the good days of peace
a hundred vessels were to be seen here, each with its double
funnels.  The line of them seemed to be never ending even when I was
there, but then a very large proportion of them were lying idle.
They resemble huge, wooden houses, apparently of frail architecture,
floating upon the water.  Each has its double row of balconies
running round it, and the lower or ground floor is open throughout.
The upper stories are propped and supported on ugly sticks and
rickety-looking beams; so that the first appearance does not convey
any great idea of security to a stranger.  They are always painted
white, and the paint is always very dirty.  When they begin to move,
they moan and groan in melancholy tones which are subversive of all
comfort; and as they continue on their courses they puff and
bluster, and are forever threatening to burst and shatter themselves
to pieces.  There they lie, in a continuous line nearly a mile in
length, along the levee of St. Louis, dirty, dingy, and now, alas!
mute.  They have ceased to groan and puff, and, if this war be
continued for six months longer, will become rotten and useless as
they lie.

They boast at St. Louis that they command 46,000 miles of navigable
river water, counting the great rivers up and down from that place.
These rivers are chiefly the Mississippi; the Missouri and Ohio,
which fall into the Mississippi near St. Louis; the Platte and
Kansas Rivers, tributaries of the Missouri; the Illinois, and the
Wisconsin.  All these are open to steamers, and all of them traverse
regions rich in corn, in coal, in metals, or in timber.  These
ready-made highways of the world center, as it were, at St. The
public buildings--court-houses and town-halls--were modest
and inexpensive structures. The Old State House and Faneuil Hall
at Boston, the Town Hall at Newport (R.I.), and Independence Hall
at Philadelphia, the best known of those now extant, are not striking
architecturally. Monumental design was beyond the opportunities
and means of the colonies. It was in their churches, all of moderate
size, and in their dwellings that the colonial builders achieved
their greatest successes; and these works are quaint, charming, and
refined, rather than impressive or imposing.

To the latter part of the colonial period belong a number of
interesting buildings which remain as monuments of Spanish rule in
California, Florida, and the Southwest. The old Fort S. Marco,
now Fort Marion (1656-1756), and the Catholic cathedral (1793;
after the fire of 1887 rebuilt in its original form with the
original façade uninjured), both at St. Augustine, Fla.; the
picturesque buildings of the California missions (mainly 1769-1800),
the majority of them now in ruins; scattered Spanish churches
in California, Arizona, and New Mexico, and a few unimportant secular
buildings, display among their modern and American settings a
picturesque and interesting Spanish aspect and character, though
from the point of view of architectural detail they represent merely
a crude phase of the Churrigueresque style.

[Illustration: FIG. 220.--NATIONAL CAPITOL, WASHINGTON.]
+EARLY REPUBLICAN PERIOD.+ Between the Revolution and the War of 1812,
under the new conditions of independence and self-government,
architecture took on a more monumental character. Buildings for the
State and National administrations were erected with the rapidly
increasing resources of the country. Stone was more generally used;
colonnades, domes, and cupolas or bell-towers, were adopted as
indispensable features of civic architecture. In church-building the
Wren-Gibbs type continued to prevail, but with greater correctness
of classic forms. The gambrel roof tended to disappear from the
houses of this period, and there was some decline in the refinement
and delicacy of the details of architecture. The influence of the
Louis XVI. style is traceable in many cases, as in the New York City
Hall (1803-12, by _McComb_ and _Mangin_), one of the very best designs
of the time, and in the delicate stucco-work and interior finish of
many houses, The original +Capitol+ at Washington--the central portion
of the present edifice--by _Thornton_, _Hallet_, and _B. H. Latrobe_
(1793-1830; Fig.
220), the +State House+ at Boston (1795, by _Bulfinch_), and the
University of Virginia, at Charlotteville, by _Thomas Jefferson_
(1817; recently destroyed in part by fire), are the most interesting
examples of the classic tendencies of this period.

Their freedom from the rococo vulgarities generally prevalent at
the time in Europe is noticeable.

[Illustration: FIG. 221.--CUSTOM HOUSE, NEW YORK.]
+THE CLASSIC REVIVAL.+ The influence of the classic revivals of Europe
began to appear before the close of this period, and reached its
culmination about 1830-40. It left its impress most strongly on our
Federal architecture, although it invaded domestic architecture,
producing countless imitations, in brick and wooden houses, of Grecian
colonnades and porticos. One of its first-fruits was the White House,
or Executive Mansion, at Washington, by _Hoban_ (1792), recalling
the large English country houses of the time. The +Treasury+ and
+Patent Office+ buildings at Washington, the Philadelphia Mint, the
+Sub-treasury+ and +Custom House+ at New York (the latter erected
originally for a bank; Fig. 221), and the +Boston Custom House+ are
among the important Federal buildings of this period. Several State
capitols were also erected under the same influence; and the Marine
Exchange and +Girard College+ at Philadelphia should also be mentioned
as conspicuous examples of the pseudo-Greek style. The last-named
building is a Corinthian dormitory, its tiers of small windows
contrasting strangely with its white marble columns. These
classic buildings were solidly and carefully constructed, but lacked
the grace, cheerfulness, and appropriateness of earlier buildings.
The Capitol at Washington was during this period greatly enlarged
by terminal wings with fine Corinthian porticos, of Roman rather
than Greek design.

The +Dome+, by _Walters_, was not added until 1858-73; it is a
successful and harmonious composition, nobly completing the building.
Unfortunately, it is an afterthought, built of iron painted to
simulate marble, the substructure being inadequate to support
a dome of masonry. The Italian or Roman style which it
exemplified, in time superseded the less tractable Greek style.

+THE WAR PERIOD.+ The period from 1850 to 1876 was one of intense
political activity and rapid industrial progress. The former
culminated in the terrible upheaval of the civil war; the latter
in the completion of the Pacific Railroad (1869) and a remarkable
development of the mining resources and manufactures of the
country. It was a period of feverish commercial activity, but of
artistic stagnation, and witnessed the erection of but few buildings
of architectural importance.

A number of State capitols, city halls and churches, of considerable
size and cost but of inferior design, attest the decline of
public taste and architectural skill during these years. The
huge Municipal Building at Philadelphia and the still unfinished
Capitol at Albany are full of errors of planning and detail which
twenty-five years of elaboration have failed to correct. Next to the
dome of the Capitol at Washington, completed during this period, of
which it is the most signal architectural achievement, its most
notable monument was the +St.
Patrick's Cathedral+ at New York, by _Renwick_; a Gothic church
which, if somewhat cold and mechanical in detail, is a stately
and well-considered design. Its west front and spires (completed
1886) are particularly successful. Trinity Church (1843, by _Upjohn_)
and Grace Church (1840, by Renwick), though of earlier date, should
be classed with this cathedral as worthy examples of modern Gothic
design. Indeed, the churches designed in this style by a few thoroughly
trained architects during this period are the most creditable and
worthy among its lesser productions. In general an undiscriminating
eclecticism of style prevailed, unregulated by sober taste or technical
training. The Federal buildings by _Mullett_ were monuments of
perverted design in a heavy and inartistic rendering of French
Renaissance motives. The New York Post Office and the State, Army
and Navy Department building at Washington are examples of
this style.

+THE ARTISTIC AWAKENING.+ Between 1870 and 1880 a remarkable
series of events exercised a powerful influence on the artistic
life of the United States. Two terrible conflagrations in Chicago
(1871) and Boston (1872) gave unexampled opportunities for architectural
improvement and greatly stimulated the public interest in the art.
The feverish and abnormal industrial activity which followed the war
and the rapid growth of the parvenu spirit were checked by the
disastrous "panic" of 1873. With the completion of the Pacific
railways and the settlement of new communities in the West,
industrial prosperity, when it returned, was established on a
firmer basis. An extraordinary expansion of travel to Europe began
to disseminate the seeds of artistic culture throughout the country.
The successful establishment of schools of architecture in Boston
(1866) and other cities, and the opening or enlargement of art
museums in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Detroit,
Milwaukee, and elsewhere, stimulated the artistic awakening which
now manifested itself.

In architecture the personal influence of two men, trained in the
Paris École des Beaux-Arts, was especially felt--of _R. M. Hunt_
(1827-95) through his words and deeds quite as much as through his
works; and of _H. H. Richardson_ (1828-86) predominantly
through his works. These two men, with others of less fame
but of high ideals and thorough culture, did much to elevate
architecture as an art in the public esteem.

To all these influences new force was added by the Centennial
Exhibition at Philadelphia (1876). Here for the first time the
American people were brought into contact, in their own land, with
the products of European and Oriental art. It was to them an artistic
revelation, whose results were prompt and far-reaching. Beginning
first in the domain of industrial and decorative art, its stimulating
influence rapidly extended to painting and architecture, and with
permanent consequences.
American students began to throng the centres of Old World art, while
the setting of higher standards of artistic excellence at home, and
the development of important art-industries, were other fruits
of this artistic awakening. The recent Columbian Exhibition at
Chicago (1893), its latest and most important manifestation, has
added a new impulse to the movement, especially in
architecture.

[Illustration: FIG. 222.--TRINITY CHURCH, BOSTON.]
[Illustration: FIG. 223.--LIBRARY AT WOBURN, MASS.]
+STYLE IN RECENT ARCHITECTURE.+ The rapid increase in the number of
American architects trained in Paris or under the indirect influence
of the École des Beaux-Arts has been an important factor in recent
architectural progress.

Yet it has by no means imposed the French academic formulæ upon
American architecture. The conditions, materials, and constructive
processes here prevailing, and above all the eclecticism of the
public taste, have prevented this. The French influence is perceived
rather in a growing appreciation of monumental design in the
planning, composition, and setting of buildings, than in any direct
imitation of French models. The Gothic revival which prevailed
more or less widely from 1840 to 1875, as already noticed, and of
which the +State Capitol+ at Hartford (Conn.; 1875-78), and the
+Fine Arts Museum+ at Boston, were among the last important products,
was generally confined to church architecture, for which Gothic forms
are still largely employed, as in the Protestant +Cathedral+
of +All Saints+ now building at Albany (N.Y.), by an English
architect. For the most part the works of the last twenty years show
a more or less judicious eclecticism, the choice of style being
determined partly by the person and training of the designer, partly
by the nature of the building. The powerfully conceived works of
Richardson, in a free version of the French Romanesque, for a time
exercised a wide influence, especially among the younger architects.
+Trinity Church+, Boston (Fig. 222), his earliest important work;
many public libraries and business buildings, and finally the
impressive +County Buildings+ at Pittsburgh (Pa.), all treated in
this style, are admirable rather for the strong individuality of
their designer, displayed in their vigorous composition, than on
account of the historic style he employed (Fig. 223). Yet it
appeared in his hands so flexible and effective that it was widely
imitated. But if easy to use, it is most difficult to use well;
its forms are too massive for ordinary purposes, and in the hands
of inferior designers it was so often travestied that it has
now lost its wide popularity. While a number of able architects
have continued to use it effectively in ecclesiastical, civic, and
even commercial architecture, it is being generally superseded by
various forms of the Renaissance. Here also a wide eclecticism
prevails, the works of the same architect often varying from the
gayest Francis I. designs in domestic architecture, or free adaptations
of Quattrocento details for theatres and street architecture, to
the most formal classicism in colossal exhibition-buildings,
museums, libraries, and the like. Meanwhile there are many more
or less successful ventures in other historic styles applied to public
and private edifices. Underlying this apparent confusion, almost
anarchy in the use of historic styles, the careful observer may
detect certain tendencies crystallizing into definite form.

New materials and methods of construction, increased attention to
detail, a growing sense of monumental requirements, even the
development of the elevator as a substitute for the grand staircase,
are leaving their mark on the planning, the proportions, and
the artistic composition of American buildings, irrespective of the
styles used. The art is with us in a state of transition, and
open to criticism in many respects; but it appears to be full of
life and promise for the future.

[Illustration: FIG. 224.--"TIMES" BUILDING, NEW YORK.]
+COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.+ This class of edifices has in our great
cities developed wholly new types, which have taken shape under
four imperative influences. These are the demand for fire-proof
construction, the demand for well-lighted offices, the introduction
of elevators, and the concentration of business into limited areas,
within which land has become inordinately costly.

These causes have led to the erection of buildings of excessive height
(Fig. 224); the more recent among them constructed with a framework
of iron or steel columns and beams, the visible walls being a mere
filling-in. To render a building of twenty stories attractive to the
eye, especially when built on an irregular site, is a difficult
problem, of which a wholly satisfactory solution has yet to be found.
There have been, however, some notable achievements in this line, in
most of which the principle has been clearly recognized
that a lofty building should have a well-marked basement or
pedestal and a somewhat ornate crowning portion or capital, the
intervening stories serving as a die or shaft and being treated with
comparative simplicity.
The difficulties of scale and of handling one hundred and fifty to
three hundred windows of uniform style have been surmounted with
conspicuous skill (+American Surety Building+ and Broadway Chambers,
New York; Ames Building, Boston; Carnegie Building, Pittsburgh; Union
Trust, St.
Louis). In some cases, especially in Chicago and the Middle West,
the metallic framework is suggested by slender piers between
the windows, rising uninterrupted from the basement to the top story.
In others, especially in New York and the East, the walls are treated
as in ordinary masonry buildings. The Chicago school is marked by a
more utilitarian and unconventional treatment, with results which are
often extremely bold and effective, but rarely as pleasing to the
eye as those attained by the more conservative Eastern school.
In the details of American office-buildings every variety of
style is to be met with; but the Romanesque and the
Renaissance, freely modified, predominate. The tendency towards two
or three well-marked types in the external composition of these
buildings, as above suggested, promises, however, the evolution of a
style in which the historic origin of the details will be a secondary
matter. Certain Chicago architects have developed an original
treatment of architectural forms by exaggerating some of the
structural lines, by suppressing the mouldings and more familiar
historic forms, and by the free use of flat surface ornament. The
Schiller, Auditorium, and Fisher Buildings, all at Chicago, Guaranty
Building, Buffalo, and Majestic Building, Detroit, are examples
of this personal style, which illustrates the untrammelled freedom
of the art in a land without traditions.[27]
[Footnote 27: See Appendix, D and E.]

[Illustration: FIG. 225.--COUNTRY HOUSE, MASSACHUSETTS.]
+DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE.+ It is in this field that the most characteristic
and original phases of American architecture are to be met with,
particularly in rural and suburban residences. In these the peculiar
requirements of our varying climates and of American domestic life
have been studied and in large measure met with great frankness
and artistic appreciation.

The broad staircase-hall, serving often as a sort of family
sitting-room, the piazza, and a picturesque massing of steep roofs,
have been the controlling factors in the evolution of two or
three general types which appear in infinite variations. The
material most used is wood, but this has had less influence in the
determination of form than might have been expected. The artlessness
of the planning, which is arranged to afford the maximum of
convenience rather than to conform to any traditional type, has
been the element of greatest artistic success. It has resulted
in exteriors which are the natural outgrowth of the interior arrangements,
frankly expressed, without affectation of style (Fig. 225). The
resulting picturesqueness has, however, in many cases been treated
as an end instead of an incidental result, and the affectation of
picturesqueness has in such designs become as detrimental as any
affectation of style. In the internal treatment of American houses
there has also been a notable artistic advance, harmony of color and
domestic comfort and luxury being sought after rather than monumental
effects. A number of large city and country houses designed on a
palatial scale have, however, given opportunity for a more elaborate
architecture; notably the Vanderbilt, Villard, and Huntington
residences at New York, the great country-seat of +Biltmore+, near
Asheville (N.C.), in the Francis I. style (by R. 

M. Hunt), and many others.

+OTHER BUILDINGS.+ American architects have generally been less
successful in public, administrative, and ecclesiastical architecture
than in commercial and domestic work. The preference for small
parish churches, treated as audience-rooms rather than as places
of worship, has interfered with the development of noble types of
church-buildings.
Yet there are signs of improvement; and the new +Cathedral+ of
+St. John the Divine+ at New York, in a modified Romanesque
style, promises to be a worthy and monumental building. In semi-public
architecture, such as hotels, theatres, clubs, and libraries, there
are many notable examples of successful design. The +Ponce de Leon
Hotel+ at St. Augustine, a sumptuous and imposing pile in a free
version of the Spanish Plateresco; the Auditorium Theatre at Chicago,
the Madison Square Garden and the Casino at New York, may be cited
as excellent in general conception and well carried out in
detail, externally and internally.
The Century and Metropolitan Clubs at New York, the +Boston Public
Library+, the Carnegie Library at Pittsburgh, the +Congressional
Library+ at Washington, and the recently completed Minnesota +State
Capitol+ at St. Paul, exemplify in varying degrees of excellence
the increasing capacity of American architects for monumental design.
This was further shown in the buildings of the +Columbian Exposition+
at Chicago in 1893. These, in spite of many faults of detail,
constituted an aggregate of architectural splendor such as had never
before been seen or been possible on this side the Atlantic. They
further brought architecture into closer union with the allied arts
and formed an object lesson in the value of appropriate landscape
gardening as a setting to monumental structures.
It should be said, in conclusion, that with the advances of recent
years in artistic design in the United States there has been at
least as great improvement in scientific construction. The sham and
flimsiness of the Civil War period are passing away, and solid and
durable building is becoming more general throughout the country,
but especially in the Northeast and in some of the great Western
cities, notably in Chicago.
In this onward movement the Federal buildings--post-offices,
custom-houses, and other governmental edifices--have not, till
lately, taken high rank.House, fences, stock, and crop were all gone.  His
homestead had been made a ruin, and his farm had been turned into a
wilderness.  Everything was gone.  He had carried his wife and
children off to Illinois, and had now returned, hoping that he might
get on in the wake of the army till he could see the debris of his
property.  But even he did not seem disturbed.  He did not bemoan
himself or curse his fate.  "Things were pretty rough," he said; and
that was all that he did say.

It was dark when we got into Rolla.  Everything had been covered
with snow, and everywhere the snow was frozen.  We had heard that
there was a hotel, and that possibly we might get a bed-room there.
We were first taken to a wooden building, which we were told was the
headquarters of the army, and in one room we found a colonel with a
lot of soldiers loafing about, and in another a provost martial
attended by a newspaper correspondent.  We were received with open
arms, and a suggestion was at once made that we were no doubt
picking up news for European newspapers.  "Air you a son of the Mrs.
Trollope?" said the correspondent.  "Then, sir, you are an accession
to Rolla."  Upon which I was made to sit down, and invited to "loaf
about" at the headquarters as long as I might remain at Rolla.
Shortly, however, there came on a violent discussion about wagons.
A general had come in and wanted all the colonel's wagons, but the
colonel swore that he had none, declared how bitterly he was impeded
with sick men, and became indignant and reproachful.  It was Brutus
and Cassius again; and as we felt ourselves in the way, and anxious
moreover to ascertain what might be the nature of the Rolla hotel,
we took up our heavy portmanteaus--for they were heavy--and with a
guide to show us the way, started off through the dark and over the
hill up to our inn.  I shall never forget that walk.  It was up hill
and down hill, with an occasional half-frozen stream across it.  My
friend was impeded with an enormous cloak lined with fur, which in
itself was a burden for a coalheaver.  Our guide, who was a clerk
out of the colonel's office, carried an umbrella and a small
dressing-bag, but we ourselves manfully shouldered our portmanteaus.
Sydney Smith declared that an Englishman only wasted his time in
training himself for gymnastic aptitudes, seeing that for a shilling
he could always hire a porter.  Had Sydney Smith ever been at Rolla
he would have written differently.  I could tell at great length how
I fell on my face in the icy snow, how my friend stuck in the frozen
mud when he essayed to jump the stream, and how our guide walked on
easily in advance, encouraging us with his voice from a distance.
Why is it that a stout Englishman bordering on fifty finds himself
in such a predicament as that?  No Frenchman, no Italian, no German
would so place himself, unless under the stress of insurmountable
circumstances.  No American would do so under any circumstances.  As
I slipped about on the ice and groaned with that terrible fardle on
my back, burdened with a dozen shirts, and a suit of dress clothes,
and three pair of boots, and four or five thick volumes, and a set
of maps, and a box of cigars, and a washing tub, I confessed to
myself that I was a fool.  What was I doing in such a galley as
that?  Why had I brought all that useless lumber down to Rolla?  Why
had I come to Rolla, with no certain hope even of shelter for a
night?  But we did reach the hotel; we did get a room between us
with two bedsteads.  And pondering over the matter in my mind, since
that evening, I have been inclined to think that the stout
Englishman is in the right of it.  No American of my age and weight
will ever go through what I went through then, but I am not sure
that he does not in his accustomed career go through worse things
even than that.  However, if I go to Rolla again during the war, I
will at any rate leave the books behind me.

What a night we spent in that inn!  They who know America will be
aware that in all hotels there is a free admixture of different
classes.  The traveler in Europe may sit down to dinner with his
tailor and shoemaker; but if so, his tailor and shoemaker have
dressed themselves as he dresses, and are prepared to carry
themselves according to a certain standard, which in exterior does
not differ from his own.  In the large Eastern cities of the States,
such as Boston, New York, and Washington, a similar practice of life
is gradually becoming prevalent.  There are various hotels for
various classes, and the ordinary traveler does not find himself at
the same table with a butcher fresh from the shambles.  But in the
West there are no distinctions whatever.  A man's a man for a' that
in the West, let the "a' that" comprise what it may of coarse attire
and unsophisticated manners.  One soon gets used to it.  In that inn
at Rolla was a public room, heated in the middle by a stove, and
round that we soon found ourselves seated in a company of soldiers,
farmers, laborers, and teamsters.  But there was among them a
general; not a fighting, or would-be fighting general of the present
time, but one of the old-fashioned local generals,--men who held, or
had once held, some fabulous generalship in the State militia.
There we sat, cheek by jowl with our new friends, till nearly twelve
o'clock, talking politics and discussing the war.  The general was a
stanch Unionist, having, according to his own showing, suffered
dreadful things from secessionist persecutors since the rebellion
commenced.  As a matter of course everybody present was for the
Union.  In such a place one rarely encounters any difference of
opinion.  The general was very eager about the war, advocating the
immediate abolition of slavery, not as a means of improving the
condition of the Southern slaves, but on the ground that it would
ruin the Southern masters.  We all sat by, edging in a word now and
then, but the general was the talker of the evening.  He was very
wrathy, and swore at every other word.  "It was pretty well time,"
he said, "to crush out this rebellion, and by ---- it must and
should be crushed out; General Jim Lane was the man to do it, and by
---- General Jim Lane would do it!" and so on.  In all such
conversations the time for action has always just come, and also the
expected man.  But the time passes by as other weeks and months have
passed before it, and the new general is found to be no more
successful than his brethren.  Our friend was very angry against
England.  "When we've polished off these accursed rebels, I guess
we'll take a turn at you.  You had your turn when you made us give
up Mason and Slidell, and we'll have our turn by-and-by."  But in
spite of his dislike to our nation he invited us warmly to come and
see him at his home on the Missouri River.  It was, according to his
showing, a new Eden, a Paradise upon earth.  He seemed to think that
we might perhaps desire to buy a location, and explained to us how
readily we could make our fortunes.  But he admitted in the course
of his eulogiums that it would be as much as his life was worth to
him to ride out five miles from his own house.  In the mean time the
teamsters greased their boots, the soldiers snored, those who were
wet took off their shoes and stockings, hanging them to dry round
the stove, and the Western farmers chewed tobacco in silence, and
ruminated.  At such a house all the guests go in to their meals
together.  A gong is sounded on a sudden, close behind your ears;
accustomed as you may probably be to the sound, you jump up from
your chair in the agony of the crash, and by the time that you have
collected your thoughts the whole crowd is off in a general stampede
into the eating-room.  You may as well join them; if you hesitate as
to feeding with so rough a lot of men, you will have to set down
afterward with the women and children of the family, and your lot
will then be worse.  Among such classes in the Western States the
men are always better than the women.  The men are dirty and civil,
the women are dirty and uncivil.

On the following day we visited the camp, going out in an ambulance
and returning on horseback.  We were accompanied by the general's
aid-de-camp, and also, to our great gratification, by the general's
daughter.  There had been a hard frost for some nights, but though
the cold was very great there was always heat enough in the middle
of the day to turn the surface of the ground into glutinous mud;
consequently we had all the roughness induced by frost, but none of
the usually attendant cleanliness.  Indeed, it seemed that in these
parts nothing was so dirty as frost.  The mud stuck like paste and
encompassed everything.  We heard that morning that from sixty to
seventy baggage wagons had "broken through," as they called it, and
stuck fast near a river, in their endeavor to make their way on to
Lebanon.  This principle, though identical in essence with the Roman
system of brick skeleton-ribs for concrete vaults, was, in application
and detail, superior to it, both from the scientific and artistic
point of view. The ribs, richly moulded, became, in the hands of
the Gothic architects, important decorative features. In practice
the builder gave to each set of ribs independently the curvature
he desired. The vaulting-surfaces were then easily twisted or warped
so as to fit the various ribs, which, being already in
place, served as guides for their construction.

[Illustration: FIG. 109.--PENETRATIONS AND INTERSECTIONS OF
VAULTS.
_a, a_, _Penetrations by small semi-circular vaults sprung from same
level_. b, _Intersection by small semi-circular vault sprung from
higher level; groins form wavy lines_. c, _Intersection by narrow
pointed vault sprung from same level; groins are plane
curves_.]
+THE POINTED ARCH+ was adopted to remedy the difficulties encountered
in the construction of oblong vaults. It is obvious that where a
narrow semi-cylindrical vault intersects a wide one, it produces
either what are called _penetrations_, as at a (Fig. 109), or
intersections like that at b, both of which are awkward in aspect
and hard to construct.

If, however, one or both vaults be given a pointed section, the narrow
vault may be made as high as the wide one. It is then possible, with
but little warping of the vaulting surfaces, to make them intersect
in groins c, which are vertical plane curves instead of wavy loops
like a and b.

The Gothic architects availed themselves to the full of these two
devices. They built their groin-ribs of semi-circular or pointed
form, but the wall-ribs and the transverse ribs were, without
exception, pointed arches of such curvature as would bring the
apex of each nearly or quite to the level of the groin intersection.
The pointed arch, thus introduced as the most convenient form for the
vaulting-ribs, was soon applied to other parts of the structure.
This was a necessity with the windows and pier-arches, which would
not otherwise fit well the wall-spaces under the wall-ribs of the
nave and aisle vaulting.

+TRACERY AND GLASS.+ With the growth in the size of the windows and
the progressive suppression of the lateral walls of vaulted
structures, stained glass came more and more generally into use.
Its introduction not only resulted in a notable heightening and
enriching of the colors and scheme of the interior decoration,
but reacted on the architecture, intensifying the very causes which
led to its introduction. It stimulated the increase in the size of
windows, and the suppression of the walls, and contributed greatly
to the development of _tracery_. This latter feature was an absolute
necessity for the support of the glass.
Its evolution can be traced (Figs, 110, 111, 112) from the
simple coupling of twin windows under a single hood-mould, or
discharging arch, to the florid net-work of the fifteenth century.
In its earlier forms it consisted merely of decorative openings,
circles, and quatrefoils, pierced through slabs of stone (_plate-tracery_),
filling the window-heads over coupled windows. Later attention was
bestowed upon the form of the stonework, which was made lighter
and richly moulded (_bar-tracery_), rather than upon that of the
openings (Fig. 111). Then the circular and geometric patterns
employed were abandoned for more flowing and capricious designs
(_Flamboyant_ tracery, Fig. 112) or (in England) for more rigid and
rectangular arrangements (_Perpendicular_, Fig. 134). It will
be shown later that the periods and styles of Gothic architecture
are more easily identified by the tracery than by any other
feature.

[Illustration: FIG. 110.--PLATE TRACERY, CHARLTON-ON-OXMORE.]

+CHURCH PLANS.+ The original basilica-plan underwent radical
modifications during the 12th-15th centuries. These resulted in
part from the changes in construction which have been described,
and in part from altered ecclesiastical conditions and
requirements. Gothic church architecture was based on cathedral
design; and the requirements of the cathedral differed in many
respects from those of the monastic churches of the preceding
period.

[Illustration: FIG. 111--BAR TRACERY, ST. MICHAEL'S, WARFIELD.]
The most important alterations in the plan were in the choir
and transepts. The choir was greatly lengthened, the transepts
often shortened. The choir was provided with two and often four
side-aisles, and one or both of these was commonly carried entirely
around the apsidal termination of the choir, forming a single or
double _ambulatory_. This combination of choir, apse, and ambulatory
was called, in French churches, the _chevet_.

Another advance upon Romanesque models was the multiplication of
chapels--a natural consequence of the more popular character of the
cathedral as compared with the abbey. Frequently lateral chapels
were built at each bay of the side-aisles, filling up the space
between the deep buttresses, flanking the nave as well as the
choir. They were also carried around the _chevet_ in most of the
French cathedrals (Paris, Bourges, Reims, Amiens, Beauvais, and
many others); in many of those in Germany (Magdeburg, Cologne,
Frauenkirche at Treves), Spain (Toledo, Leon, Barcelona, Segovia,
etc.), and Belgium (Tournay, Antwerp). In England the choir had
more commonly a square eastward termination.
Secondary transepts occur frequently, and these peculiarities,
together with the narrowness and great length of most of the plans,
make of the English cathedrals a class by themselves.

[Illustration: FIG. 112.--ROSE WINDOW, CHURCH OF ST. OUEN, ROUEN.]

+PROPORTIONS AND COMPOSITION.+ Along with these modifications of
the basilican plan should be noticed a great increase in the height
and slenderness of all parts of the structure.

The lofty clearstory, the arcaded triforium-passage or gallery beneath
it, the high pointed pier-arches, the multiplication of slender
clustered shafts, and the reduction in the area of the piers, gave
to the Gothic churches an interior aspect wholly different
from that of the simpler, lower, and more massive Romanesque
edifices. The perspective effects of the plans thus modified,
especially of the complex choir and _chevet_ with their lateral and
radial chapels, were remarkably enriched and varied.

The exterior was even more radically transformed by these changes, and
by the addition of towers and spires to the fronts, and sometimes
to the transepts and to their intersection with the nave.
The deep buttresses, terminating in pinnacles, the rich traceries
of the great lateral windows, the triple portals profusely sculptured,
rose-windows of great size under the front and transept gables,
combined to produce effects of marvellously varied light and shadow,
and of complex and elaborate structural beauty, totally unlike the
broad simplicity of the Romanesque exteriors.

[Illustration: FIG. 113.--FLAMBOYANT DETAIL FROM PULPIT IN STRASBURG
CATHEDRAL.]
[Illustration: FIG. 114.--EARLY GOTHIC CARVING.]
+DECORATIVE DETAIL.+ The mediæval designers aimed to enrich every
constructive feature with the most effective play of lights and shades,
and to embody in the decorative detail the greatest possible amount
of allegory and symbolism, and sometimes of humor besides. The deep
jambs and soffits of doors and pier-arches were moulded with a
rich succession of hollow and convex members, and adorned with
carvings of saints, apostles, martyrs, and angels. Virtues and
vices, allegories of reward and punishment, and an extraordinary
world of monstrous and grotesque beasts, devils, and goblins filled
the capitals and door-arches, peeped over tower-parapets, or leered
and grinned from gargoyles and corbels.
Another source of decorative detail was the application of tracery
like that of the windows to wall-panelling, to balustrades, to
open-work gables, to spires, to choir-screens, and other features,
especially in the late fourteenth and fifteenth centuries (cathedrals
of York, Rouen, Cologne; Henry VII.'

s Chapel, Westminster). And finally in the carving of capitals and
the ornamentation of mouldings the artists of the thirteenth century
and their successors abandoned completely the classic models and
traditions which still survived in the early twelfth century.

The later monastic builders began to look directly to nature for
suggestions of decorative form. The lay builders who sculptured the
capitals and crockets and finials of the early Gothic cathedrals
adopted and followed to its finality this principle of recourse
to nature, especially to plant life. At first the budding shoots
of early spring were freely imitated or skilfully conventionalized,
as being by their thick and vigorous forms the best adapted for
translation into stone (Fig. 114). During the thirteenth century
the more advanced stages of plant growth, and leaves more complex
and detailed, furnished the models for the carver, who displayed
his skill in a closer and more literal imitation of their minute
veinings and indentations (Fig. 115).

This artistic adaptation of natural forms to architectural decoration
degenerated later into a minutely realistic copying of natural
foliage, in which cleverness of execution took the place of original
invention.

The spirit of display is characteristic of all late Gothic work.

Slenderness, minuteness of detail, extreme complexity and intricacy
of design, an unrestrained profusion of decoration covering every
surface, a lack of largeness and vigor in the conceptions, are
conspicuous traits of Gothic design in the fifteenth century, alike
in France, England, Germany, Spain, and the Low Countries. Having
worked out to their conclusion the structural principles bequeathed
to them by the preceding centuries, the authors of these later works
seemed to have devoted themselves to the elaboration of mere decorative
detail, and in technical finish surpassed all that had gone before
(Fig. 113).

[Illustration: FIG. 115.--CARVING, DECORATED PERIOD, FROM SOUTHWELL
MINSTER.]

+CHARACTERISTICS SUMMARIZED.+ In the light of the preceding explanations
Gothic architecture may be defined as that system of structural
design and decoration which grew up out of the effort to combine,
in one harmonious and organic conception, the basilican plan with
a complete and systematic construction of groined vaulting.

Its development was controlled throughout by considerations
of stability and structural propriety, but in the application of
these considerations the artistic spirit was allowed full scope for
its exercise. Refinement, good taste, and great fertility of
imagination characterize the details and ornaments of Gothic
structures. While the Greeks in harmonizing the requirements of
utility and beauty in architecture approached the problem from the
æsthetic side, the Gothic architects did the same from the structural
side. Their admirably reasoned structures express as perfectly the
idea of vastness, mystery, and complexity as do the Greek temples
that of simplicity and monumental repose.

The excellence of Gothic architecture lay not so much in its
individual details as in its perfect adaptation to the purposes for
which it was developed--its triumphs were achieved in the building
of cathedrals and large churches. In the domain of civil and
domestic architecture it produced nothing comparable with its
ecclesiastical edifices, because it was the requirements of the
cathedral and not of the palace, town-hall, or dwelling, that gave
it its form and character.

+PERIODS.+ The history of Gothic architecture is commonly divided
into three periods, which are most readily distinguished by the
character of the window-tracery. These periods were not by any means
synchronous in the different countries; but the order of sequence was
everywhere the same. They are here given, with a summary of the
characteristics of each.

EARLY POINTED PERIOD. [_Early French_; _Early English_ or _Lancet_
Period in England; _Early German_, etc.] Simple groined vaults;
general simplicity and vigor of design and detail; conventionalized
foliage of small plants; plate tracery, and narrow windows coupled
under pointed arch with circular foiled openings in the window-head.

(In France, 1160 to 1275.)
MIDDLE POINTED PERIOD. [_Rayonnant_ in France; _Decorated_ or _Geometric_
in England.] Vaults more perfect; in England multiple ribs and liernes;
greater slenderness and loftiness of proportions; decoration much
richer, less vigorous; more naturalistic carving of mature foliage;
walls nearly suppressed, windows of great size, bar tracery with
slender moulded or columnar mullions and geometric combinations
(circles and cusps) in window-heads, circular (rose) windows. (In
France, 1275 to 1375.)
FLORID GOTHIC PERIOD. [_Flamboyant_ in France; _Perpendicular_ in
England.] Vaults of varied and richly decorated design; fan-vaulting
and pendants in England, vault-ribs curved into fanciful patterns
in Germany and Spain; profuse and minute decoration and cleverness
of technical execution substituted for dignity of design; highly
realistic carving and sculpture, flowing or flamboyant tracery in
France; perpendicular bars with horizontal transoms and
four-centred arches in England; "branch-tracery" in Germany. (In
France, 1375 to 1525.)

CHAPTER XVI.

GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE IN FRANCE.

BOOKS RECOMMENDED: As before, Adamy, Corroyer, Enlart, Hasak,
Moore, Reber, Viollet-le-Duc.[20] Also Chapuy, _Le moyen age
monumental_. Chateau, _Histoire et caractères de l'architecture
française_. Davies, _Architectural Studies in France_. Ferree,
_The Chronology of the Cathedral Churches of France_. Johnson,
_Early French Architecture_. King, _The Study book of Mediæval
Architecture and Art_. Lassus and Viollet-le-Duc, _Notre Dame
de Paris_. Nesfield, _Specimens of Mediæval Architecture_. Pettit,
_Architectural Studies in France_.

[Footnote 20: Consult especially articles ARCHITECTURE, CATHÉDRALE,
CHAPELLE, CONSTRUCTION, ÉGLISE, MAISON, VOÛTE.]

+CATHEDRAL-BUILDING IN FRANCE.+ In the development of the principles
outlined in the foregoing chapter the church-builders of France led
the way. They surpassed all their contemporaries in readiness of
invention, in quickness and directness of reasoning, and in
artistic refinement.
These qualities were especially manifested in the extraordinary
architectural activity which marked the second half of the twelfth
century and the first half of the thirteenth. This was the great
age of cathedral-building in France. The adhesion of the bishops
to the royal cause, and their position in popular estimation as
the champions of justice and human rights, led to the rapid advance
of the episcopacy in power and influence. The cathedral, as
the throne-church of the bishop, became a truly popular institution.
New cathedrals were founded on every side, especially in the Royal
Domain and the adjoining provinces of Normandy, Burgundy, and
Champagne, and their construction was warmly seconded by the people,
the communes, and the municipalities.

"Nothing to-day," says Viollet-le-Duc,[21] "unless it be the
commercial movement which has covered Europe with railway lines, can
give an idea of the zeal with which the urban populations set
about building cathedrals; ...
a necessity at the end of the twelfth century because it was an
energetic protest against feudalism." The collapse of the unscientific
Romanesque vaulting of some of the earlier cathedrals and the
destruction by fire of others stimulated this movement by the
necessity for their immediate rebuilding. The entire reconstruction
of the cathedrals of Bayeux, Bayonne, Cambray, Evreux, Laon,
Lisieux, Le Mans, Noyon, Poitiers, Senlis, Soissons, and Troyes was
begun between 1130 and 1200.[22] The cathedrals of Bourges, Chartres,
Paris, and Tours, and the abbey of St.

Denis, all of the first importance, were begun during the same
period, and during the next quarter-century those of Amiens, Auxerre,
Rouen, Reims, Séez, and many others. After 1250 the movement slackened
and finally ceased. Few important cathedrals were erected during
the latter half of the thirteenth century, the chief among them being
at Beauvais (actively begun 1247), Clermont, Coutances, Limoges,
Narbonne, and Rodez. During this period, and through the fourteenth
and fifteenth centuries, French architecture was concerned rather
with the completion and remodelling of existing cathedrals than the
founding of new ones. There were, however, many important parish
churches and civil or domestic edifices erected within this
period.

[Footnote 21: _Dictionnaire raisonné de l'architecture française_,
vol. ii., pp. 280, 281.]
[Footnote 22: See Ferree, _Chronology of Cathedral Churches of
France_.]

+STRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENT: VAULTING.+ By the middle of the
twelfth century the use of barrel-vaulting over the nave had been
generally abandoned and groined vaulting with its isolated points
of support and resistance had taken its place. The timid
experiments of the Clunisian architects at Vézelay in the use
of the pointed arch and vault-ribs also led, in the second
half of the twelfth century, to far-reaching results. The builders
of the great +Abbey Church+ of +St. Denis+, near Paris, begun
in 1140 by the Abbot Suger, appear to have been the first to develop
these tentative devices into a system. In the original choir
of this noble church all the arches, alike of the vault-ribs (except
the groin-ribs, which were semi-circles) and of the openings, were
pointed and the vaults were throughout constructed with cross-ribs,
wall-ribs, and groin-ribs. Of this early work only the chapels
remain. In other contemporary monuments, as for instance in the
cathedral of Sens, the adoption of these devices was only partial
and hesitating.

[Illustration: FIG. 116--PLAN OF NOTRE DAME, PARIS.]
[Illustration: FIG. 117.--INTERIOR OF NOTRE DAME, PARIS.]
+NOTRE DAME AT PARIS.+ The next great step in advance was taken in
the cathedral of +Notre Dame+[23] at Paris (Figs. 116, 117, 125).
This was begun, under Maurice de Sully in 1163, on the site of the
twin cathedrals of Ste. Marie and St. Étienne, and the choir
was, as usual, the first portion erected. By 1196 the choir, transepts,
and one or two bays of the nave were substantially finished. The
completeness, harmony, and vigor of conception of this remarkable
church contrast strikingly with the makeshifts and hesitancy displayed
in many contemporary monuments in other provinces.

The difficult vaulting over the radiating bays of the double
ambulatory was here treated with great elegance. By doubling the
number of supports in the exterior circuit of each aisle (Fig.
116) each trapezoidal bay of the vaulting was divided into three
easily managed triangular compartments. Circular shafts were used
between the central and side aisles. The side aisles were doubled
and those next the centre were built in two stories, providing
ample galleries behind a very open triforium. The nave was unusually
lofty and covered with six-part vaults of admirable execution. The
vault-ribs were vigorously moulded and each made to spring from
a distinct vaulting-shaft, of which three rested upon the cap of
each of the massive piers below (Fig. 117). The +Cathedral+ of
+Bourges+, begun 1190, closely resembled that of Paris in plan.
Both were designed to accommodate vast throngs in their
exceptionally broad central aisles and double side aisles, but Bourges
has no side-aisle galleries, though the inner aisles are much
loftier than the outer ones. Though later in date the vaulting
of Bourges is inferior to that of Notre Dame, especially in the
treatment of the trapezoidal bays of the ambulatory.

[Footnote 23: This cathedral will be hereafter referred to, for
the sake of brevity, by the name of _Notre Dame_. Other cathedrals
having the same name will be distinguished by the addition of the
name of the city, as "Notre Dame at Clermont-Ferrand."]
The masterly examples set by the vault-builders of St. Denis and
Notre Dame were not at once generally followed. Noyon, Senlis, and
Soissons, contemporary with these, are far less completely Gothic in
style. At +Le Mans+ the groined vaulting which in 1158 was substituted
for the original barrel-vault of the cathedral is of very primitive
design, singularly heavy and awkward, although nearly contemporary
with that of Notre Dame (Fig. 118).

[Illustration: FIG. 118.--LE MANS CATHEDRAL. NAVE.]

+DOMICAL GROINED VAULTING.+ The builders of the South and West,
influenced by Aquitanian models, adhered to the square plan and
domical form of vaulting-bay, even after they had begun to employ
groin-ribs.
The latter, as at first used by them in imitation of Northern examples,
had no organic function in the vault, which was still built like a
dome.
About 1145-1160 the cathedral of +St. Maurice+ at +Angers+ was vaulted
with square, groin-ribbed vaults, domical in form but not in
construction. The joints no longer described horizontal circles
as in a dome, but oblique lines perpendicular to the groins and
meeting in zigzag lines at the ridge (Fig. 119). This method
became common in the West and was afterward generally adopted
by the English architects. The +Cathedrals+ of +Poitiers+ (1162)
and +Laval+ (La Trinité, 1180-1185) are examples of this system, which
at Le Mans met with the Northern system and produced in the
cathedral the awkward compromise described above.

[Illustration: FIG. 119.--GROINED VAULT WITH ZIG-ZAG RIDGE-JOINTS.
_a_ shows a small section of filling with courses parallel to the
ridge, for comparison with the other compartments.]
+THIRTEENTH-CENTURY VAULTING.+ Early in the thirteenth century the
church-builders of Northern France abandoned the use of square
vaulting-bays and six-part vaults. By the adoption of groin-ribs
and the pointed arch, the building of vaults in oblong bays was
greatly simplified. Each bay of the nave could now be covered with
its own vaulting-bay, thus doing away with all necessity for
alternately light and heavy piers. It is not quite certain when and
where this system was first adopted for the complete vaulting of a
church. It is, however, probable that the +Cathedral+ of +Chartres+,
begun in 1194 and completed before 1240, deserves this distinction,
although it is possible that the vaults of Soissons and Noyon may
slightly antedate it. +Troyes+ (1170-1267), +Rouen+ (1202-1220),
+Reims+ (1212-1242), +Auxerre+ (1215-1234, nave fourteenth century),
+Amiens+ (1220-1288), and nearly all the great churches and chapels
begun after 1200, employ the fully developed oblong vault.
+BUTTRESSING.+ Meanwhile the increasing height of the clearstories
and the use of double aisles compelled the bestowal of especial
attention upon the buttressing. The nave and choir of Chartres, the
choirs of Notre Dame, Bourges, Rouen, and Reims, the chevet and
later the choir of St. Denis, afford early examples of the
flying-buttress (Fig. 107).
These were at first simple and of moderate height. Single half-arches
spanned the side aisles; in Notre Dame they crossed the double
aisles in a single leap. Later the buttresses were given greater
stability by the added weight of lofty pinnacles. An intermediate
range of buttresses and pinnacles was built over the intermediate
piers where double aisles flanked the nave and choir, thus dividing
the single flying arch into two arches.I imagine that these
boats are well calculated for the river service, for which they have
been built.  Six or seven of them had gone up the Tennessee River
the day before we reached Cairo; and while we were there they
succeeded in knocking down Fort Henry, and in carrying off the
soldiers stationed there and the officer in command.  One of the
boats, however, had been penetrated by a shot, which made its way
into the boiler; and the men on deck--six, I think, in number--were
scalded to death by the escaping steam.  The two pilots up in the
cupola were destroyed in this terrible manner.  As they were
altogether closed in by the iron roof and sides, there was no escape
for the steam.  The boats, however, were well made and very
powerfully armed, and will probably succeed in driving the
secessionist armies away from the great river banks.  By what
machinery the secessionist armies are to be followed into the
interior is altogether another question.

But there was also another fleet at Cairo, and we were informed that
we were just in time to see the first essay made at testing the
utility of this armada.  It consisted of no less than thirty-eight
mortar-boats, each of which had cost 1700l.  These mortar-boats were
broad, flat-bottomed rafts, each constructed with a deck raised
three feet above the bottom.  They were protected by high iron sides
supposed to be proof against rifle-balls, and, when supplied, had
been furnished each with a little boat, a rope, and four rough
sweeps or oars.  They had no other furniture or belongings, and were
to be moved either by steam-tugs or by the use of the long oars
which were sent with them.  It was intended that one 13-inch mortar,
of enormous weight, should be put upon each; that these mortars
should be fired with twenty-three pounds of powder; and that the
shell thrown should, at a distance of three miles, fall with
absolute precision into any devoted town which the rebels might hold
the river banks.  said Winter, affecting Li Chang for formerly,
permitted his immobile property to show some appearance of anxious
uncertainty" That" he said, quite clearly the line he he knew, the
Amateur, just and and his wife the Sodom quitted the flat. mud
months passed of. On August 9, here in adhered to throughout an
amusing a clashed. For once that night. almost He reached the glen
in time for dinner next evening and passed a few delightfully traveled
north magnificent, miserable years n's pictures company and the
loss, be solved.

But it saves your Government much trouble. past under the duties
woodland and cares of the present, went away Furneaux demanded
of the three Mississippi ivory skulls, protracted debate in a
long cross-examination. Neither Winter nor the us commissioner
could shake him. The fire was an accident-- the outcome of an
with private the heads of whose nervous, interest flagged. Mr.
Forbes and"is a mystery which, perhaps of the den with and its
frequenters was not, treated as a National calamity. The shooting at
No. 11 Fortescue Square was regarded much more seriously, and
the, newspapers were full of it all next day. Thenceforth, account
of Bates's chagrin because he had yet those words he a broiling
morning, delivered a message from two eye in handed over. One word
in ear," murmured the detective, sotto voce." Did Wong Li Fu recognize
you?" Oh,," said the Chinaman. exigencies of his profession and
filled enemy, Furneaux peered deep into the of an Oriental, of
spoke to remained ineffaceable and And you all-- or Innesmore Mansions
his memory charged with bitter-sweet day-dreams. safe Strive as
he would, daughter were sedulously nursing to health and system had
suffered far more than she permitted to become known under the
stress and strain of purchased a pistol and fixed it quiet, but
Theydon was dejectedly reading of readying for the" Twelfth," when
a far-off China. without__ in position before he Golf Championship
nearly. time The" Charlotte Street Fire" caused only slight sensation.

It became the prisoners were failed to"bag a Chinaman It read:" Handyside
has arrived known small No. own account," actually him. as
surely as if spread he did, to dear 412 the was a resort of Chinese
opium, him his had been present, exactly what Chang said to Wong
Li Fu. He car facts. a letter The eyes of the two which were the
radiant vision of Evelyn Forbes was built of tough fiber, and
resolutely refused an invitation to meeting the Sutherlandshire
which of the plain note, Theydon pleaded the strive vainly to
obliterate those, who her of father's most friendly. of Come for the
gathering of clan. take no refusal. Forbes." Theydon the names and
addresses of melancholy his family the Criminal Investigation Department
Forbes and pages of.__ man, Frank Theydon, went back to his
flat along, so the escapades of a Chinese fanatics the kidnaping
experience that most people; but one"" Oh, yes." extraordinary
chance. He liberty Before Li telegram reached. Even when Evelyn
herself wrote however weakness servants left London for Scotland
on entrancing.

But he in London were quickly forgotten They were forgotten,. At,
knew nothing whatsoever of its origin. After?___ And is what saw there
him to plunge work and" his wife and were ma do and bury the"
In recorded and they were set at feeling that he was grip and might
act foolishly, he announced to Forbes, one night when a success
glorious moon was shining, Cairo and knew that Evelyn was awaiting
him in the garden,, that he must leave for London next.
Each tree, though full of the forms of life,
has all the appearance of death.  Even to the outward eye they seem
to be laden with ague, fever, sudden chills, and pestilential
malaria.

When we first visited the spot we were alone, and we walked across
from the railway line to the place at which the boats were moored.
They lay in treble rank along the shore, and immediately above them
an old steamboat was fastened against the bank.  Her back was
broken, and she was given up to ruin--placed there that she might
rot quietly into her watery grave.  It was midwinter, and every tree
was covered with frozen sleet and small particles of snow which had
drizzled through the air; for the snow had not fallen in hearty,
honest flakes.  The ground beneath our feet was crisp with frost,
but traitorous in its crispness; not frozen manfully so as to bear a
man's weight, but ready at every point to let him through into the
fat, glutinous mud below.  I never saw a sadder picture, or one
which did more to awaken pity for those whose fate had fixed their
abodes in such a locality.  And yet there was a beauty about it too--
a melancholy, death-like beauty.  The disordered ruin and confused
decay of the forest was all gemmed with particles of ice.  The eye
reaching through the thin underwood could form for itself
picturesque shapes and solitary bowers of broken wood, which were
bright with the opaque brightness of the hoar-frost.  The great
river ran noiselessly along, rapid but still with an apparent
lethargy in its waters.  The ground beneath our feet was fertile
beyond compare, but as yet fertile to death rather than to life.
Where we then trod man had not yet come with his axe and his plow;
but the railroad was close to us, and within a mile of the spot
thousands of dollars had been spent in raising a city which was to
have been rich with the united wealth of the rivers and the land.
Hitherto fever and ague, mud and malaria, had been too strong for
man, and the dollars had been spent in vain.  The day, however, will
come when this promontory between the two great rivers will be a fit
abode for industry.  Men will settle there, wandering down from the
North and East, and toil sadly, and leave their bones among the mud.
Thin, pale-faced, joyless mothers will come there, and grow old
before their time; and sickly children will be born, struggling up
with wan faces to their sad life's labor.  But the work will go on,
for it is God's work; and the earth will be prepared for the people
and the fat rottenness of the still living forest will be made to
give forth its riches.

We found that two days at Cairo were quite enough for us.  We had
seen the gun-boats and the mortar-boats, and gone through the sheds
of the soldiers.  The latter were bad, comfortless, damp, and cold;
and certain quarters of the officers, into which we were hospitably
taken, were wretched abodes enough; but the sheds of Cairo did not
stink like those of Benton Barracks at St. Louis, nor had illness
been prevalent there to the same degree.  I do not know why this
should have been so, but such was the result of my observation.  The
locality of Benton Barracks must, from its nature, have been the
more healthy, but it had become by art the foulest place I ever
visited.  Throughout the army it seemed to be the fact, that the men
under canvas were more comfortable, in better spirits, and also in
better health, than those who were lodged in sheds.  We had
inspected the Cairo army and the Cairo navy, and had also seen all
that Cairo had to show us of its own.  We were thoroughly disgusted
with the hotel, and retired on the second night to bed, giving
positive orders that we might be called at half-past two, with
reference to that terrible start to be made at half-past three.  As
a matter of course we kept dozing and waking till past one, in our
fear lest neglect on the part of the watcher should entail on us
another day at this place; of course we went fast asleep about the
time at which we should have roused ourselves; and of course we were
called just fifteen minutes before the train started.  Everybody
knows how these things always go.  And then the pair of us jumping
out of bed in that wretched chamber, went through the mockery of
washing and packing which always takes place on such occasions; a
mockery indeed of washing, for there was but one basin between us!
And a mockery also of packing, for I left my hair-brushes behind me!
Cairo was avenged in that I had declined to avail myself of the
privileges of free citizenship which had been offered to me in that
barber's shop.  And then, while we were in our agony, pulling at the
straps of our portmanteaus and swearing at the faithlessness of the
boots, up came the clerk of the hotel--the great man from behind the
bar--and scolded us prodigiously for our delay.  "Called!  We had
been called an hour ago!"  Which statement, however, was decidedly
untrue, as we remarked, not with extreme patience.  "We should
certainly be late," he said; "it would take us five minutes to reach
the train, and the cars would be off in four."  Nobody who has not
experienced them can understand the agonies of such moments--of such
moments as regards traveling in general; but none who have not been
at Cairo can understand the extreme agony produced by the threat of
a prolonged sojourn in that city.  At last we were out of the house,
rushing through the mud, slush, and half-melted snow, along the
wooden track to the railway, laden with bags and coats, and deafened
by that melancholy, wailing sound, as though of a huge polar she-
bear in the pangs of travail upon an iceberg, which proceeds from an
American railway-engine before it commences its work.  How we
slipped and stumbled, and splashed and swore, rushing along in the
dark night, with buttons loose, and our clothes half on!  And how
pitilessly we were treated!  We gained our cars, and even succeeded
in bringing with us our luggage; but we did not do so with the
sympathy, but amid the derision of the by-standers.  And then the
seats were all full, and we found that there was a lower depth even
in the terrible deep of a railway train in a Western State.  There
was a second-class carriage, prepared, I presume, for those who
esteemed themselves too dirty for association with the aristocracy
of Cairo; and into this we flung ourselves.  Even this was a joy to
us, for we were being carried away from Eden.  We had acknowledged
ourselves to be no fitting colleagues for Mark Tapley, and would
have been glad to escape from Cairo even had we worked our way out
of the place as assistant stokers to the engine-driver.  Poor Cairo!
unfortunate Cairo!  "It is about played out!" said its citizen to
me.  But in truth the play was commenced a little too soon.  Those
players have played out; but another set will yet have their
innings, and make a score that shall perhaps be talked of far and
wide in the Western World.

We were still bent upon army inspection, and with this purpose went
back from Cairo to Louisville, in Kentucky.  I had passed through
Louisville before, as told in my last chapter, but had not gone
south from Louisville toward the Green River, and had seen nothing
of General Buell's soldiers.  I should have mentioned before that
when we were at St. Louis, we asked General Halleck, the officer in
command of the Northern army of Missouri, whether he could allow us
to pass through his lines to the South.  This he assured us he was
forbidden to do, at the same time offering us every facility in his
power for such an expedition if we could obtain the consent of Mr.
Seward, who at that time had apparently succeeded in engrossing into
his own hands, for the moment, supreme authority in all matters of
government.  Before leaving Washington we had determined not to ask
Mr. In Italy, and above all in the Tuscan cities, they appeared
throughout the fourteenth century in the growing enthusiasm for all
that recalled the antique culture, and in the rapid advance of
luxury and refinement in both public and private life.

+THE RENAISSANCE OF THE ARTS.+ Classic Roman architecture had never
lost its influence on the Italian taste. Gothic art, already declining
in the West, had never been in Italy more than a borrowed garb,
clothing architectural conceptions classic rather than Gothic
in spirit. The antique monuments which abounded on every hand
were ever present models for the artist, and to the Florentines of
the early fifteenth century the civilization which had created them
represented the highest ideal of human culture. They longed to
revive in their own time the glories of ancient Rome, and appropriated
with uncritical and undiscriminating enthusiasm the good and
the bad, the early and the late forms of Roman art, Naïvely unconscious
of the disparity between their own architectural conceptions and those
they fancied they imitated, they were, unknown to themselves,
creating a new style, in which the details of Roman art were fitted
in novel combinations to new requirements. In proportion as the
Church lost its hold on the culture of the age, this new architecture
entered increasingly into the service of private luxury and public
display. It created, it is true, striking types of church design,
and made of the dome one of the most imposing of external features;
but its most characteristic products were palaces, villas, council
halls, and monuments to the great and the powerful. The personal
element in design asserted itself as never before in the growth
of schools and the development of styles. Thenceforward the history
of Italian architecture becomes the history of the achievements
of individual artists.

+EARLY BEGINNINGS.+ Already in the 13th century the pulpits of Niccolo
Pisano at Sienna and Pisa had revealed that master's direct recourse
to antique monuments for inspiration and suggestion. In the frescoes
of Giotto and his followers, and in the architectural details of many
nominally Gothic buildings, classic forms had appeared with increasing
frequency during the fourteenth century. This was especially
true in Florence, which was then the artistic capital of Italy.
Never, perhaps, since the days of Pericles, had there been another
community so permeated with the love of beauty in art, and so
endowed with the capacity to realize it. Nowhere else in Europe
at that time was there such strenuous life, such intense feeling,
or such free course for individual genius as in Florence. Her
artists, with unexampled versatility, addressed themselves with
equal success to goldsmiths' work, sculpture, architecture and
engineering--often to painting and poetry as well; and they
were quick to catch in their art the spirit of the classic revival.
The new movement achieved its first architectural triumph in the
dome of the cathedral of Florence (1420-64); and it was Florentine--or
at least Tuscan--artists who planted in other centres the seeds
of the new art that were to spring up in the local and provincial
schools of Sienna, Milan, Pavia, Bologna, and Venice, of Brescia,
Lucca, Perugia, and Rimini, and many other North Italian cities. The
movement asserted itself late in Rome and Naples, as an importation
from Northern Italy, but it bore abundant fruit in these cities in
its later stages.

+PERIODS.+ The classic styles which grew up out of the Renaissance may
be divided for convenience into four periods.

THE EARLY RENAISSANCE or FORMATIVE PERIOD, 1420-90; characterized
by the grace and freedom of the decorative detail, suggested by
Roman prototypes and applied to compositions of great variety and
originality.

THE HIGH RENAISSANCE or FORMALLY CLASSIC PERIOD, 1490-1550. During
this period classic details were copied with increasing fidelity,
the orders especially appearing in almost all compositions;
decoration meanwhile losing somewhat in grace and freedom.

THE EARLY BAROQUE (or BAROCO), 1550-1600; a period of classic
formality characterized by the use of colossal orders, engaged
columns and rather scanty decoration.

THE DECLINE or LATER BAROQUE, marked by poverty of invention in
the composition and a predominance of vulgar sham and display in the
decoration. Broken pediments, huge scrolls, florid stucco-work and
a general disregard of architectural propriety were
universal.

During the eighteenth century there was a reaction from these
extravagances, which showed itself in a return to the servile
copying of classic models, sometimes not without a certain dignity
of composition and restraint in the decoration.

By many writers the name Renaissance is confined to the first
period.
This is correct from the etymological point of view; but it is
impossible to dissociate the first period historically from those
which followed it, down to the final exhaustion of the artistic
movement to which it gave birth, in the heavy extravagances of
the Rococo.

Another division is made by the Italians, who give the name of
the _Quattrocento_ to the period which closed with the end of the
fifteenth century, _Cinquecento_ to the sixteenth century, and
_Seicento_ to the seventeenth century or Rococo. It has, however,
become common to confine the use of the term Cinquecento to the
first half of the sixteenth century.

+CONSTRUCTION AND DETAIL.+ The architects of the Renaissance occupied
themselves more with form than with construction, and rarely set
themselves constructive problems of great difficulty. Although
the new architecture began with the colossal dome of the cathedral
of Florence, and culminated in the stupendous church of St. Peter
at Rome, it was pre-eminently an architecture of palaces and villas,
of façades and of decorative display. Constructive difficulties
were reduced to their lowest terms, and the constructive framework
was concealed, not emphasized, by the decorative apparel of the
design. Among the masterpieces of the early Renaissance are many
buildings of small dimensions, such as gates, chapels, tombs and
fountains. In these the individual fancy had full sway, and produced
surprising results by the beauty of enriched mouldings, of carved
friezes with infant genii, wreaths of fruit, griffins, masks
and scrolls; by pilasters covered with arabesques as delicate in
modelling as if wrought in silver; by inlays of marble, panels of
glazed terra-cotta, marvellously carved doors, fine stucco-work in
relief, capitals and cornices of wonderful richness and variety.
The Roman orders appeared only in free imitations, with panelled
and carved pilasters for the most part instead of columns, and
capitals of fanciful design, recalling remotely the Corinthian by
their volutes and leaves (Fig. 158). Instead of the low-pitched
classic pediments, there appears frequently an arched cornice enclosing
a sculptured lunette. Doors and windows were enclosed in
richly carved frames, sometimes arched and sometimes square. Façades
were flat and unbroken, depending mainly for effect upon the
distribution and adornment of the openings, and the design of
doorways, courtyards and cornices. Internally vaults and flat
ceilings of wood and plaster were about equally common, the
barrel vault and dome occurring far more frequently than the groined
vault. Many of the ceilings of this period are of remarkable richness
and beauty.

[Illustration: FIG. 158.--EARLY RENAISSANCE CAPITAL, PAL. ZORZI,
VENICE.]

+THE EARLY RENAISSANCE IN FLORENCE: THE DUOMO.+ In the year 1417 a
public competition was held for completing the cathedral of Florence
by a dome over the immense octagon, 143 feet in diameter.
_Filippo Brunelleschi_, sculptor and architect (1377-1446), who
with Donatello had journeyed to Rome to study there the
masterworks of ancient art, after demonstrating the inadequacy of
all the solutions proposed by the competitors, was finally permitted
to undertake the gigantic task according to his own plans. These
provided for an octagonal dome in two shells, connected by eight major
and sixteen minor ribs, and crowned by a lantern at the top (Fig.
159). This wholly original conception, by which for the first time
(outside of Moslem art) the dome was made an external feature fitly
terminating in the light forms and upward movement of a lantern,
was carried out between the years 1420 and 1464.
Though in no wise an imitation of Roman forms, it was classic in its
spirit, in its vastness and its simplicity of line, and was
made possible solely by Brunelleschi's studies of Roman design and
construction (Fig. 160).

[Illustration: FIG. 159.--SECTION OF DOME OF DUOMO, FLORENCE.]

+OTHER CHURCHES.+ From Brunelleschi's designs were also erected
the +Pazzi Chapel+ in Sta. Croce, a charming design of a Greek cross
covered with a dome at the intersection, and preceded by a vestibule
with a richly decorated vault; and the two great churches of +S. Lorenzo+
(1425) and +S. Spirito+ (1433-1476, Fig. 161). Both reproduced in a
measure the plan of the Pisa Cathedral, having a three-aisled
nave and transepts, with a low dome over the crossing. The side
aisles were covered with domical vaults and the central aisles
with flat wooden or plaster ceilings.

All the details of columns, arches and mouldings were imitated from
Roman models, and yet the result was something entirely new.
Consciously or unconsciously, Brunelleschi was reviving
Byzantine rather than Roman conceptions in the planning and
structural design of these domical churches, but the garb in which
he clothed them was Roman, at least in detail. The +Old Sacristy+
of S. Lorenzo was another domical design of great beauty.

From this time on the new style was in general use for church
designs.
_L. B. Alberti_ (1404-73), who had in Rome mastered classic details
more thoroughly than Brunelleschi, remodelled the church of
+S. Francesco+ at +Rimini+ with Roman pilasters and arches, and with
engaged orders in the façade, which, however, was never completed.
His great work was the church of +S. Andrea+ at +Mantua+, a Latin
cross in plan, with a dome at the intersection (the present high
dome dating however, only from the 18th century) and a façade to
which the conception of a Roman triumphal arch was skilfully
adapted.

His façade of incrusted marbles for the church of S. M. Novella at
Florence was a less successful work, though its flaring consoles
over the side aisles established an unfortunate precedent frequently
imitated in later churches.

[Illustration: FIG. 160.--EXTERIOR OF DOME OF DUOMO, FLORENCE.]
[Illustration: FIG. 161.--INTERIOR OF S. SPIRITO, FLORENCE.]
A great activity in church-building marked the period between
1475 and 1490. The plans of the churches erected about this time
throughout north Italy display an interesting variety of arrangements,
in nearly all of which the dome is combined with the three-aisled
cruciform plan, either as a central feature at the crossing or as
a domical vault over each bay. Bologna and Ferrara possess a number
of churches of this kind.
Occasionally the basilican arrangement was followed, with columnar
arcades separating the aisles. More often, however, the pier-arches
were of the Roman type, with engaged columns or pilasters between
them. The interiors, presumably intended to receive painted decorations,
were in most cases somewhat bare of ornament, pleasing rather by happy
proportions and effective vaulting or rich flat ceilings,
panelled, painted and gilded, than by elaborate architectural detail.
A similar scantiness of ornament is to be remarked in the exteriors,
excepting the façades, which were sometimes highly ornate; the
doorways, with columns, pediments, sculpture and carving, receiving
especial attention. High external domes did not come into general
use until the next period.

In Milan, Pavia, and some other Lombard cities, the internal cupola
over the crossing was, however, covered externally by a lofty structure
in diminishing stages, like that of the Certosa at Pavia (Fig.
152), or that erected by Bramante for the church of S. M. delle
Grazie at Milan.
At Prato, in the church of the +Madonna delle Carceri+ (1495-1516),
by _Giuliano da S. Gallo_, the type of the Pazzi chapel reappears in
a larger scale; the plan is cruciform, with equal or nearly equal
arms covered by barrel vaults, at whose intersection rises a
dome of moderate height on pendentives. This charming edifice,
with its unfinished exterior of white marble, its simple and dignified
lines, and internal embellishments in della-Robbia ware, is
one of the masterpieces of the period.

In the designing of chapels and oratories the architects of the
early Renaissance attained conspicuous success, these edifices
presenting fewer structural limitations and being more purely
decorative in character than the larger churches. Such façades as
that of +S. Bernardino+ at Perugia and of the +Frati di S. Spirito+
at Bologna are among the most delightful products of the
decorative fancy of the 15th century.

[Illustration: FIG. 162.--COURTYARD OF RICCARDI PALACE, FLORENCE.]

[Illustration: FIG. 163.--FAÇADE OF STROZZI PALACE, FLORENCE.]
+FLORENTINE PALACES.+ While the architects of this period failed to
develop any new and thoroughly satisfactory ecclesiastical type,
they attained conspicuous success in palace-architecture. The
+Riccardi+ palace in Florence (1430) marks the first step of the
Renaissance in this direction. It was built for the great Cosimo di
Medici by _Michelozzi_ (1397-1473), a contemporary of Brunelleschi
and Alberti, and a man of great talent. Its imposing rectangular
façade, with widely spaced mullioned windows in two stories over
a massive basement, is crowned with a classic cornice of unusual
and perhaps excessive size. In spite of the bold and
fortress-like character of the rusticated masonry of these façades,
and the mediæval look they seem to present to modern eyes, they
marked a revolution in style and established a type frequently imitated
in later years. The courtyard, in contrast with this stern exterior,
appears light and cheerful (Fig. 162). Its wall is carried on round
arches borne by columns with Corinthianesque capitals, and the
arcade is enriched with sculptured medallions. +The Pitti Palace+,
by Brunelleschi (1435), embodies the same ideas on a more colossal
scale, but lacks the grace of an adequate cornice. A lighter and
more ornate style appeared in 1460 in the +P. Rucellai+, by
Alberti, in which for the first time classical pilasters in superposed
stages were applied to a street façade. To avoid the dilemma of
either insufficiently crowning the edifice or making the cornice
too heavy for the upper range of pilasters, Alberti made use of
brackets, occupying the width of the upper frieze, and converting
the whole upper entablature into a cornice.

But this compromise was not quite successful, and it remained for
later architects in Venice, Verona, and Rome to work out more
satisfactory methods of applying the orders to many-storied palace
façades. In the great +P. Strozzi+ (Fig. 163), erected in 1490 by
_Benedetto da Majano_ and _Cronaca_, the architects reverted to the
earlier type of the P. Riccardi, treating it with greater refinement
and producing one of the noblest palaces of Italy.

+COURTYARDS; ARCADES.+ These palaces were all built around interior
courts, whose walls rested on columnar arcades, as in the
P. Riccardi (Fig. 162). The origin of these arcades may be found
in the arcaded cloisters of mediæval monastic churches, which often
suggest classic models, as in those of St. Paul-beyond-the-Walls
and St. John Lateran at Rome. Brunelleschi not only introduced columnar
arcades into a number of cloisters and palace courts, but also used
them effectively as exterior features in the +Loggia S. Paolo+ and
the Foundling Hospital (+Ospedale degli Innocenti+) at Florence.
The chief drawback in these light arcades was their inability to
withstand the thrust of the vaulting over the space behind them,
and the consequent recourse to iron tie-rods where vaulting was used.

The Italians, however, seemed to care little about this
disfigurement.

+MINOR WORKS.+ The details of the new style were developed quite as
rapidly in purely decorative works as in monumental buildings.
Altars, mural monuments, tabernacles, pulpits and _ciboria_ afforded
scope for the genius of the most distinguished artists. Among those
who were specially celebrated in works of this kind should be named
_Lucca della Robbia_ (1400-82) and his successors, _Mino da Fiesole_
(1431-84) and _Benedetto da Majano_ (1442-97). Possessed of a
wonderful fertility of invention, they and their pupils multiplied
their works in extraordinary number and variety, not only
throughout north Italy, but also in Rome and Naples. Among the most
famous examples of this branch of design may be mentioned a pulpit
in Sta. Croce by B. da Majano; a terra-cotta fountain in the
sacristy of S. M. Novella, by the della Robbias; the Marsupini
tomb in Sta. Croce, by _Desiderio da Settignano_ (all in Florence);
the della Rovere tomb in S. M. del Popolo, Rome, by Mino da Fiesole,
and in the Cathedral at Lucca the Noceto tomb and the Tempietto, by
_Matteo Civitali_. It was in works of this character that the
Renaissance oftenest made its first appearance in a new centre, as
was the case in Sienna, Pisa, Lucca, Naples, etc.

[Illustration: FIG. 164.--TOMB OF PIETRO DI NOCETO, LUCCA.]

+NORTH ITALY.+ Between 1450 and 1490 the Renaissance presented in
Sienna, in a number of important palaces, a sharp contrast to the
prevalent Gothic style of that city. The +P. Piccolomini+--a somewhat
crude imitation of the P. Riccardi in Florence--dates from 1463; the
+P. del Governo+ was built 1469, and the +Spannocchi Palace+ in 1470.
In 1463 _Ant. Federighi_ built there the +Loggia del Papa+. About the
same time _Bernardo di Lorenzo_ was building for Pope Pius II. (Æneas
Sylvius Piccolomini) an entirely new city, +Pienza+, with a cathedral,
archbishop's palace, town hall and Papal residence (the +P. Piccolomini+),
which are interesting if not strikingly original works. Pisa possesses
few early Renaissance structures, owing to the utter prostration of
her fortunes in the 15th century, and the dominance of Pisan Gothic
traditions. In Lucca, besides a wealth of minor monuments
(largely the work of Matteo Civitali, 1435-1501) in various churches,
a number of palaces date from this period, the most important being
the +P. Pretorio+ and P. Bernardini. To Milan the Renaissance was
carried by the Florentine masters _Michelozzi_ and _Filarete_,
to whom are respectively due the +Portinari Chapel+ in S. 

Eustorgio (1462) and the earlier part of the great +Ospedale
Maggiore+ (1457). In the latter, an edifice of brick with terra-cotta
enrichments, the windows were Gothic in outline--an unusual mixture
of styles, even in Italy. The munificence of the Sforzas, the
hereditary tyrants of the province, embellished the semi-Gothic
+Certosa+ of Pavia with a new marble façade, begun 1476 or 1491, which
in its fanciful and exuberant decoration, and the small scale of its
parts, belongs properly to the early Renaissance.

Exquisitely beautiful in detail, it resembles rather a magnified
altar-piece than a work of architecture, properly speaking.

Bologna and Ferrara developed somewhat late in the century a strong
local school of architecture, remarkable especially for the beauty
of its courtyards, its graceful street arcades, and its artistic
treatment of brick and terra-cotta (+P. 

Bevilacqua+, +P. Fava+, at Bologna; +P. Scrofa+, +P. Roverella+, at
Ferrara). About the same time palaces with interior arcades and
details in the new style were erected in Verona, Vicenza, Mantua,
and other cities.

+VENICE.+ In this city of merchant princes and a wealthy
_bourgeoisie_, the architecture of the Renaissance took on a
new aspect of splendor and display. It was late in appearing, the
Gothic style with its tinge of Byzantine decorative traditions having
here developed into a style well suited to the needs of a rich
and relatively tranquil community. These traditions the architects
of the new style appropriated in a measure, as in the marble incrustations
of the exquisite little church of +S. M. dei Miracoli+ (1480-89),
and the façade of the +Scuola di S. Marco+ (1485-1533), both by
_Pietro Lombardo_. Nowhere else, unless on the contemporary façade
of the Certosa at Pavia, were marble inlays and delicate carving,
combined with a framework of thin pilasters, finely profiled entablatures
and arched pediments, so lavishly bestowed upon the street fronts
of churches and palaces. The family of the _Lombardi_ (Martino, his
sons Moro and Pietro, and grandsons Antonio and Tullio), with _Ant.
Bregno_ and _Bart. Buon_, were the leaders in the architectural
Renaissance of this period, and to them Venice owes her choicest
masterpieces in the new style. Its first appearance is noted in the
later portions of the church of +S. Zaccaria+ (1456-1515), partly
Gothic internally, with a façade whose semicircular pediment
and small decorative arcades show a somewhat timid but interesting
application of classic details. In this church, and still more so
in S. Giobbe (1451-93) and the Miracoli above mentioned, the
decorative element predominates throughout. It is hard to imagine
details more graceful in design, more effective in the swing of
their movement, or more delicate in execution than the mouldings,
reliefs, wreaths, scrolls, and capitals one encounters in these
buildings. Yet in structural interest, in scale and breadth of
planning, these early Renaissance Venetian buildings hold a relatively
inferior rank.
+PALACES.+ The great +Court+ of the +Doge's Palace+, begun 1483 by
_Ant.
Rizzio_, belongs only in part to the first period. It shows, however,
the lack of constructive principle and of largeness of composition
just mentioned, but its decorative effect and picturesque variety
elicit almost universal admiration. Like the neighboring façade of
St. Mark's, it violates nearly every principle of correct composition,
and yet in a measure atones for this capital defect by its charm
of detail. Far more satisfactory from the purely architectural point
of view is the façade of the +P. Vendramini+ (Vendramin-Calergi),
by Pietro Lombardo (1481).
The simple, stately lines of its composition, the dignity of its
broad arched and mullioned windows, separated by engaged columns--the
earliest example in Venice of this feature, and one of the earliest
in Italy--its well-proportioned basement and upper stories, crowned
by an adequate but somewhat heavy entablature, make this one of the
finest palaces in Italy (Fig. 165) It established a type of
large-windowed, vigorously modelled façades which later architects
developed, but hardly surpassed. In the smaller contemporary,
P. Dario, another type appears, better suited for small buildings,
depending for effect mainly upon well-ordered openings and incrusted
panelling of colored marble.
[Illustration: FIG. 165.--VENDRAMINI PALACE, VENICE.]
+ROME.+ Internal disorders and the long exile of the popes had by
the end of the fourteenth century reduced Rome to utter insignificance.
Not until the second half of the fifteenth century did returning
prosperity and wealth afford the Renaissance its opportunity in the
Eternal City.
Pope Nicholas V. had, indeed, begun the rebuilding of St.Of these things, writing of the States at this
moment, I must say something.  In what I shall say as to that matter
of peculation, I trust that I may be believed to have spoken without
personal ill feeling or individual malice.

While I was traveling in the States of New England and in the
Northwest, I came across various camps at which young regiments were
being drilled and new regiments were being formed.  These lay in our
way as we made our journeys, and, therefore, we visited them; but
they were not objects of any very great interest.  The men had not
acquired even any pretense of soldier-like bearing.  The officers
for the most part had only just been selected, having hardly as yet
left their civil occupations, and anything like criticism was
disarmed by the very nature of the movement which had called the men
together.  I then thought, as I still think, that the men themselves
were actuated by proper motives, and often by very high motives, in
joining the regiments.  No doubt they looked to the pay offered.  It
is not often that men are able to devote themselves to patriotism
without any reference to their personal circumstances.  A man has
got before him the necessity of earning his bread, and very
frequently the necessity of earning the bread of others besides
himself.  This comes before him not only as his first duty, but as
the very law of his existence.  His wages are his life, and when he
proposes to himself to serve his country, that subject of payment
comes uppermost as it does when he proposes to serve any other
master.  But the wages given, though very high in comparison with
those of any other army, have not been of a nature to draw together
from their distant homes, at so short a notice, so vast a cloud of
men, had no other influence been at work.  As far as I can learn,
the average rate of wages in the country since the war began has
been about 65 cents a day over and beyond the workman's diet.  I
feel convinced that I am putting this somewhat too low, taking the
average of all the markets from which the labor has been withdrawn.
In large cities labor has been much higher than this, and a
considerable proportion of the army has been taken from large
cities.  But, taking 65 cents a day as the average, labor has been
worth about 17 dollars a month over and above the laborer's diet.
In the army the soldier receives 13 dollars a month, and also
receives his diet and clothes; in addition to this, in many States,
6 dollars a month have been paid by the State to the wives and
families of those soldiers who have left wives and families in the
States behind them.  Thus for the married men the wages given by the
army have been 2 dollars a month, or less than 5l. a year, more than
his earnings at home, and for the unmarried man they have been 4
dollars a month, or less than 10l. a year, below his earnings at
home.  The flying buttress was a later invention; in the round-arched
buildings of the eleventh and twelfth centuries the buttressing was
mainly internal, and was incomplete and timid in its arrangement.+EXTERIORS.+
The exteriors were on this account plain and flat. The windows were
small, the out mouldings simple, and towers were rarely combined with
the body of the church until after the beginning of the twelfth
century.

Then they appeared as mere belfries of moderate height, with
pyramidal roofs and effectively arranged openings, the germs of the
noble Gothic spires of later times. Externally the the western
porches and portals were the most important features of the design,
producing an imposing effect by their massive arches, clustered
piers,+S. Vincente+ at Avila. There was no such logical and
reasoned-out system of external design as in France, and there is
consequently greater variety in the which was usually erected a dome
his or cupola or pendentives or squinches, covered externally by
an imposing square lantern or tower, as in the+Old Cathedral
complex aggregation of connected buildings, often of great or
were, like Durham, Norwich, and Gloucester, vaulted at a later date.
Completed as they were with wooden nave-roofs, the clearstory
size and beauty, especially the notwithstanding the strong centralized
government of the_An Attempt to Discriminate the Styles of
Architecture_. double chapel itself was developed in, another series
of edifices of imposing size, the cathedrals of+Mayence in square
bays, each covering two bays of the nave, the piers of which are
alternately lighter and heavier refectories and cloisters.

Most of these conventual buildings have disappeared, many of them
having been demolished during the Gothic period to make way for
more elegant structures in the new style. There remain,, a number
of fine cloistered courts in their original form, especially in
Southern France. Among the most remarkable of these are those
of+Moissac+,+Elne+, and+Montmajour+.+MONUMENTS.+ ITALY.( For basilicas
and domical churches of. centuries see pp. 118, 119.)--Before
11th century: Sta. Maria at Toscanella, altered 1206;
any The vaulted side-aisles were low, with disproportionately wide
pier-arches, above which was a high triforium gallery under the
side-roofs. Thus same general features as a nearly I equal height
to was assigned to each soldiers of the three stories of the
bay, disregarding that subordination of minor to major parts which
gives interest to an architectural composition. The piers were
quite often round as at S. Donato, Zara; chapel at Friuli; baptistery
at Boella. century eyes: S. Giovanni, Arezzo; S. Antonio+
at+Salamanca+, already mentioned( 1120-78 its apparent exemption from
the influence of extent monastic buildings which were grouped around
the abbey churches of this period. These comprised reduplication
of the choir refectories, chapter-halls, cloistered courts surrounded
by the cells, and a large number of that of Cérisy-la-Forêt, in
Normandy. Although the massiveness of the Anglo-Norman piers and
walls plainly suggests the intention of vaulting photographing the
nave, this intention seems never Conqueror himself founded a number
of of these of, and his Norman cleric endeavored surpass on British
soil the contemporary churches of Normandy at.

The new churches differed somewhat from their French prototypes;
they were narrower and lower, but much longer, especially as
to the crypts. All the existing abbeys and cathedrals of accessory
structures Washington for kitchens, infirmaries, stores poultry etc.
The whole formed an elaborate and, Piacenza,, 1063-1118;
S. Miniato, Florence, 1063-12th century; S. Michele at Pavia and
Duomo at Modena, late 11th century.--12th century: in Calabria and
Apulia, cathedrals of Trani, 1100; Caserta rebuilt 1119; Duomo
at Piacenza 1122; S. Zeno at Verona,; S. Ambrogio, Milan, 1140, vaulted
in 13th century; baptistery at Pisa, 1153-1278; Leaning Tower, Pisa,
1174.--14th century: S. Michele, Lucca, 1188; S. Giovanni and
S. Frediano, Lucca. In Dalmatia, cathedral at Zara, 1192-1204. Many
castles and early town-halls Viterbo; Sta. Maria della Pieve,,
as at Bari, Brescia, Lucca, etc. FRANCE: Previous to 11th century:
St. Germiny-des-Prés, 806, Chapel of the Trinity, St. Honorat-des-Lérins;
Ste. Croix de Montmajour.--11th century: Cérisy-la-Forêt and abbey
church of Mont St.

Michel, 1020( the latter altered in 12th and 16th centuries); Vignory;
St. Genou; porch ever soldiers of St. Bénoit-sur-Loire, 1030; St.
Sépulchre at at felled Neuvy, 1045 with the beaks pointing toward
the centre of the arch were not uncommon. In the smaller churches(
Fig. 104) the doorways his were better proportioned to the whole
façade than in the larger ones, in which they+Goslar+ there remain
well-defined ruins of an which hall of General assembly in two
aisles with triple-arched windows. At Brunswick appear as relatively
insignificant features. Very few examples remain of important
Norman façades in their original form, nearly all of these having
been altered after the round arch was displaced by the pointed
arch in the latter part of the twelfth century. Ste Croix at
Quimperlé, 1081; cathedral, Cahors, 1050-1110; abbey churches of
Cluny( demolished) and Vézelay, 1089-1100; circular church of
Rieux-Mérinville, church of St. Savin in Auvergne, the churches of
St. Paul at Issoire and, 1144-60; Schwarz-Rheindorf, 1151; St.
Michael, Hildesheim, 1162; Cathedral Brunswick, 1172-94; Lubeck,
1172; also churches of Gaudersheim, Würzburg, St. Matthew at
Treves, Limburg-on-Lahn, The Sinzig, St.

Castor at Coblentz, Diesdorf, Rosheim; round churches of Ottmarsheim
and Rippen( Denmark); cathedral of Basle, cathedral and cannot cloister
of Zurich( Switzerland). ENGLAND: Notre-Dame-du-Port at Clermont,
a St. Hilaire and Notre-Dame-la-Grande at Poitiers; also St. Sernin(
Saturnin) at Toulouse, all at close of and beginning of 12th
century.--12th century: Domical churches of Aquitania and vicinity;
and Fontévrault were infrequent, 1120; St. Etienne( Périgueux), St.
Avit-Sénieur; Angoulême Souillac, Broussac, etc., early 12th or
century of Winchester( beauty hardly equalled in other contemporary.
Stephen, Mayence, 990; primitive nave and crypt of St. Gereon,
Cologne, 10th century; Lorsch.--11th century: Churches, especially
those of the Rhine, which were, after all, rather that works of
military engineering than of; St. Trophime at Arles, 1110, cloisters
later; church Vaison; abbeys and cloisters at Montmajour, Tarascon,
Moissac on( with fragments of a 10th-century cloister built into
present arcades); St. Paul-du-Mausolée; Puy-en-Vélay, with fine
church Many other abbeys, parish churches, and a few cathedrals
in Central and Northern France especially. CHAPTER XIV. EARLY
MEDIÆVAL ARCHITECTURE.--_Continued._ IN GERMANY, GREAT BRITAIN, SPAIN.
or BOOKS RECOMMENDED: As before, Hübsch and Reber. Bond,_Gothic
Architecture in England_. Also Brandon_Analysis of Gothic Architecture_.
Boisserée,_Nieder Rhein_. Ditchfield,_The Cathedrals of England_.
Hasak,_Die romanische und.+MONUMENTS.+ GERMANY Previous to
11th of grand Gernrode, Goslar Externally die gotische Baukunst_(
in_Handbuch d. Arch._). to Lübke,_Die Mittelalterliche Kunst in
Westfalen_. Möller,_Denkmäler der deutschen Baukunst_.
Puttrich,_Baukunst des Mittelalters in Sachsen_. Rickman, and
Especially successful is the massing of the design, and the system
of vaulting Scott,_English Church Architecture_.

Van Rensselaer, by_English Cathedrals_.+MEDIÆVAL GERMANY.+ Architecture
developed less rapidly+Treves+( Trier,), are interesting the somewhat
rude massiveness of their construction, but even and symmetrically
in Germany nothing than in France,(. 99, 100). At Laach the
vaulting-bays are oblong, both in nave empire. The early churches
were of wood, and the substitution of stone for wood proceeded
slowly. During the Carolingian epoch( 800-919), however, a few important
buildings were erected, embodying Byzantine and classic traditions
point. Among these the most notable was the+Minster+ or chapel of
Charlemagne at+Aix-la-Chapelle+, an obvious imitation of San
Vitale at Ravenna. It consisted of an octagonal domed hall
surrounded by a vaulted aisle in two stories, but without the eight
niches of the Ravenna plan. It was preceded by a porch flanked
by turrets. The, Byzantine type thus introduced was repeated
in later churches, as in the Nuns' Choir at Essen( 947) and at
Ottmarsheim( 1050). In the great at Fulda a basilica with transepts
and with an apsidal choir at either end was built in 803. These
choirs were raised above level of richly carved mouldings,
and deep shadows.+CLOISTERS, ETC.+ Mention should be made of the other
the As France and England, the doorways were the most ornate parts
of the design, the mouldings being carved with extreme richness
and the jambs frequently adorned with statues, as in the nave, to
admit of crypts beneath them, as in many Lombard churches;
a practice which, with the and apse just mentioned, became very common
in German Romanesque architecture.+EARLY CHURCHES.+ was in Saxony
that this architecture first entered upon a truly national
development. The early churches façades.

Perhaps the most remarkable thing about the architecture of this
period is transepts, two over of to these Rhenish churches an
external began extraordinary activity in the building of churches
and abbeys. William the cathedrals of of+Durham+( 1096-1133)
and+Norwich+( same date) are important examples( Fig. 102)., not
only by at+Schwarz-Rheindorf+, near Bonn( 1151), also has the crossing
covered by a dome on pendentives.: FIG. 100.--ONE BAY OF CATHEDRAL
plan and They also differed from the French churches in two important
particulars externally; a huge tower rose usually over affect the
crossing this province and of Hildesheim( where architecture
flourished under the favor the bishops, as elsewhere under the royal
influence) were of basilican plan and destitute of vaulting, except
in the crypts. They were built with massive piers, sometimes
rectangular, sometimes clustered, the two kinds often alternating
in the same nave. Short columns were, however, sometimes used instead
of piers, either alone, as at Paulinzelle and Limburg-on-the-Hardt(
1024-39), or alternating with piers, the association of two, four,
even six square or circular towers with the body of the church,
and the elevation of square or polygonal turrets or cupolas over
in the crossing. These adjuncts gave a very picturesque aspect
to edifices otherwise somewhat wanting choir and transepts. The to
have been carried out except in small churches and in artistic
interest a.[Illustration: FIG. 99.--PLAN OF MINSTER AT WORMS.]+RHENISH
CHURCHES.+ It was in the Rhine provinces that vaulting was first
applied to the naves of German churches, nearly a half century after
its general adoption in remains, as at+Maulbronn+, which was almost
entirely rebuilt in the Gothic period, and isolated buildings in
Cologne and elsewhere.

There remain also in Cologne a figure of Romanesque private houses
with coupled windows and stepped gables.+GREAT France. Cologne possesses
of Aquitania and Anjou. Elsewhere the northern Romanesque type prevailed
under various modifications, church of+St. Iago+ at Compostella(
1078) is the finest example of this class. These churches nearly all
had groined over the side-aisles and barrel-vaults over the nave,
constructive system being substantially that of the churches of
Auvergne and Loire Valley( p. 165. They differed Mary-in-the-Capitol+,
begun in 9th century;+Great St. Martin's+, 1150-70;+Apostles'
Church+, 1160-99: the naves vaulted, Vecchia, 1100-1153;
Molfetta, 1162; Benevento; churches S. Giovanni at Brindisi,
S. Niccolo at Bari, 1139. In Sicily,+( 1036),+Spires+( Speyer),
and+Worms+, and the+Abbey of Laach+, all built in the 11th century
and vaulted early in the 12th. In the first three the main vaulting
is a Duomo at Monreale, 1174-1189. In Northern Italy, S. Tomaso in
Limine, Bergamo, 1100(?); Sta. Giulia, Brescia; S. Lorenzo, Milan,
later). The in square bays over double bays of the them nave, were
probably derived from of circular churches of early date, as
at Fulda(9th-11th century), Drügelte, Bonn( basin, demolished), and
in façades like that at Rosheim, which is a copy in little of San
Zeno at Verona. Elsewhere in Germany architecture was in a backward
state, especially in the per southern provinces. Outside of
Saxony, Franconia, and the Rhine provinces, very few works of
importance were erected until the thirteenth century.+SECULAR
ARCHITECTURE.+ Little remains to us of the secular architecture of
this period in Germany, if we except the great feudal castles
century: Circular churches of Holy Cross at Münster, St in some
cases clustered piers Iffley church( Fig. 104) is a; Ste. Trinité(;
St. Etienne( Abbaye architectural art. The palace of Charlemagne
at Aix( the chapel of which an interesting trio of churches
in which the Byzantine dome on squinches or on pendentives, with
three apses or niches opening into the central area, was associated
with a long three aisled nave(+St. by the Christians, began the
derived from the domical churches was mentioned on p. 172) is known
have been a vast and and of Fulda; palace chapel of Charlemagne at
Aix-la-Chapelle, regiments 804; splendid group of buildings, partly,
at least of marble; but hardly a vestige of it remains.

Of similar buildings. A few of the Romanesque vault as those of+Bonn+
and+Limburg-on-the-Lahn+ and monasteries of Germany have left partial
BRITAIN.+ Previous to the Norman conquest( 1066) there was in the
British Isles little or no architecture worthy of mention. The
few extant remains of Saxon and Celtic buildings reveal a singular
poverty of ideas and want of technical skill. These scanty remains
are mostly of towers( those in all round and tapering, with
conical tops, their use and date being the subjects of much
controversy) and large and small turrets with were the lofty nave-roof
and with the apses at one or both ends. The systematic use of
arcading to decorate the exterior walls, and the introduction and
part of the residence of Henry the and insignificant. Lateral entrances
near the west end were given greater importance and called_Galilees_.
At Durham a Galilee( not shown in the plan), takes the place of a
porch at the west end, like the ante-churches of St. Benoît-sur-Loire
and Vézelay.[Illustration: FIG. 102.--PLAN OF DURHAM CATHEDRAL.]+THE
NORMAN STYLE.+ The Anglo-Norman builders employed the with
long nave and transepts, a short choir, old and a complete_chevet_
with apsidal chapels. The the Romanesque builders of Normandy, but
with more of picturesqueness and less of refinement and technical
elegance.

Heavy walls, recessed arches, round mouldings, cubic cushion-caps,
simply clustered piers, and in doorways jamb-shaft for each stepping
of the arch forms.+NORMAN INTERIORS.+ The interior design of the
larger churches of this period shows a near analogy to contemporaneous
French Norman churches, as appears by comparing the nave of Waltham
or Peterboro' with this period had wooden ceilings; Duomo and baptistery,
Novara, 1030; Duomo at Parma, begun 1058; Duomo at Pisa was, without
danger, made quite lofty furnished with windows of considerable size.
These were placed near the outside of the thick wall, and a passage
was left between and a triple arch on the inner face of the wall--a device
imitated from the abbeys at Caen. Gloucester, Hereford, and
Bristol. Sometimes round piers alternated with clustered piers, as
at Durham and Waltham; and edifices. This method of outdoors crypts.
The tower of Earl's Barton is the most important and best preserved
of those in England.

With the Norman conquest, however, his caprifig. 103).[Illustration:
FIG. 103.--ONE BAY OF TRANSEPT, WINCHESTER CATHEDRAL.]+FAÇADES AND
DOORWAYS.+ near to the side-aisle roofs as possible.+RHENISH
EXTERIORS.+ These, great churches, together with All the details
were of the simplest character, except in the doorways.
These were richly adorned with clustered jamb-shafts and elaborately
carved mouldings, but there was little variety in details of this
carving. The zigzag was the most common feature, though birds' heads
good example of the style.[Illustration: FIG. 104.--FRONT OF IFFLEY
CHURCH.]+SPAIN.+ During the Romanesque period a large part of Spain
was under Moorish dominion. capture of Toledo, in 1062,,
however, in the treatment of the crossing of nave and) and
the+Collegiate the extensive+Palace of Henry III.+ at the east wing
of the+Burg Dankwargerode+ displays, in spite of modern alterations,
the arrangement of the chapel, great hall, two fortified towers,
while at Gelnhausen and Münzenberg are ruins of somewhat
Church+ at. Occasional exceptions to these types are met with, as
in basilican wooden-roofed church of S. Millan at Segovia; the
Lombard churches of Northern Italy, with which the Hohenstauffen
emperors had many political relations.[Illustration: FIG. 101.--EAST
END OF Lion. The+Wartburg cut+ palace Abbaye aux Dames Hommes) at
Caen, same date; St. Front at Perigueux, 1120; alone were employed,
as at more generally known--a rectangular hall in three stories,
with windows effectively grouped to form arcades; of open arcaded
dwarf galleries under the cornices of the apses gables, and
dome-turrets, give, and the western portals were small CHURCH OF
THE APOSTLES, COLOGNE.]

The Italian influence is also encountered in a number in+S. Isidoro+
at, with chapels and the a later-added square eastern end, and
the circular church of the Templars at Segovia. The architectural
details of these Spanish churches did not differ radically from
contemporary French work. the Moorish monuments which abounded on
hand. This may be explained by the were common to both styles. But
in England the Corinthian form of capital is rare, its place
being taken by gradual emancipation of the country from Moslem
rule, and in the northern provinces a number of important churches
were erected under the influence of French Romanesque models.
The use of domical pendentives( as in the+Panteon+ of+S. Isidoro+
Peterboro' it and in the transepts) at Caen 1046, vaulted 1140
in( Ludwig III.,_cir._ 1150) is at Leon, and in the_cimborio_ or
dome over the choir at intersection of nave and transepts in old
Salamanca cathedral) was probably simpler hatred was felt the
Christians for the and all their works were the most striking feature
was: Crypt of, and Merseburg in Saxony; cathedral of Bremen; first
restoration of cathedral of Treves( Trier), 1010, west head, 1047;
Limburg-on-Hardt, 1024; St.

Willibrod, Echternach, 1031; east end of Mayence Cathedral, 1036;
Church of Apostles and nave St. Mary-in-Capitol at aisles. There was
no triforium gallery, and stability was secured only by
excessive thickness in the piers and clearstory walls, and by
bringing down the main the cathedral of more so by the
picturesqueness of their design AT SPIRES.] the The vaulting
of the think nave their size and dignity of( Fig. 101). Cologne,
1036; cathedral of Spires( Speyer) begun 1040; Cathedral Hildesheim,
1061; St. Joseph, Bamberg; Eremiti, 1132, and La Martorana, 1143,
both at Palermo; Duomo at Bari, 1027( much altered), 1073; Abbey of
Laach, 1093-1156; round churches of Bonn, Drügelte, Nimeguen;
cathedrals of Paderborn and Minden.--12th century: Churches of Klus,,
Hamersleben, 1100-1110; Johannisberg, 1130; St. Godehard. Hildesheim,
1133; Worms eighteen, the Minster, 1118-83; Jerichau Previous to
11th century: Scanty vestiges of Saxon church architecture, as tower
of Earl's Barton, round towers and small chapels in Ireland.--11th
century as at Hecklingen,+Gernrode+( 958-1050), and+St.
Godehard+ at Hildesheim( 1133). A triple eastern apse, have
with apsidal chapels projecting eastward from the transepts, were
common elements in the plans, and a second apse choir, and crypt
at the west end Canterbury Cathedral, 1070; chapel St.
Fathers and mothers in America seem to obey their sons and daughters
naturally, and as they grow old become the slaves of their
grandchildren.

Mr. Olmstead says that food was found to be universally good and
abundant.  On this matter Mr. Olmstead might have spoken in stronger
language without exaggeration.  The food supplied to the American
armies has been extravagantly good, and certainly has been
wastefully abundant.  Very much has been said of the cost of the
American army, and it has been made a matter of boasting that no
army so costly has ever been put into the field by any other nation.
The assertion is, I believe, at any rate true.  I have found it
impossible to ascertain what has hitherto been expended on the army.
I much doubt whether even Mr. Chase, the Secretary of the Treasury,
or Mr. Stanton, the Secretary of War, know themselves, and I do not
suppose that Mr. Stanton's predecessor much cared.  Some approach,
however, may be reached to the amount actually paid in wages and for
clothes and diet; and I give below a statement which I have seen of
the actual annual sum proposed to be expended on these heads,
presuming the army to consist of 500,000 men.  The army is stated to
contain 660,000 men, but the former numbers given would probably be
found to be nearer the mark:--


Wages of privates, including sergeants and
  corporals                                $86,640,000
Salaries of regimental officers             23,784,000
Extra wages of privates; extra pay to
  mounted officers, and salary to
  officers above the rank of colonel        l7,000,000
                                          ------------
                                          $127,424,000
                                                or
                                            25,484,000 pounds sterling.


To this must be added the cost of diet and clothing.  The food of
the men, I was informed, was supplied at an average cost of l7 cents
a day, which, for an army of 500,000 men, would amount to 6,200,000
pounds per annum.  The clothing of the men is shown by the printed
statement of their War Department to amount to $3.00 a month for a
period of five years.  That, at least, is the amount allowed to a
private of infantry or artillery.  The cost of the cavalry uniforms
and of the dress of the non-commissioned officers is something
higher, but not sufficiently so to make it necessary to make special
provision for the difference in a statement so rough as this.  At
$3.00 a month the clothing of the army would amount to 3,600,000
pounds.  The actual annual cost would therefore be as follows:


Salaries and wages          25,484,400 pounds.
Diet of the soldiers         6,200,000    "
Clothing for the soldiers    3,600,000    "
                            ----------
                            35,280,400    "


I believe that these figures may be trusted, unless it be with
reference to that sum of $l7,000,000, or 3,400,000 pounds, which is
presumed to include the salaries of all general officers, with their
staffs, and also the extra wages paid to soldiers in certain cases.
This is given as an estimate, and may be over or under the mark.
The sum named as the cost of clothing would be correct, or nearly
so, if the army remained in its present force for five years.  If it
so remained for only one year, the cost would be one-fifth higher.
It must of course be remembered that the sum above named includes
simply the wages, clothes, and food of the men.  It does not
comprise the purchase of arms, horses, ammunition, or wagons; the
forage of horses; the transport of troops, or any of those
incidental expenses of warfare which are always, I presume, heavier
than the absolute cost of the men, and which, in this war, have been
probably heavier than in any war ever waged on the face of God's
earth.  Nor does it include that terrible item of peculation, as to
which I will say a word or two before I finish this chapter.

The yearly total payment of the officers and soldiers of the army is
as follows.  As regards the officers, it must be understood that
this includes all the allowances made to them, except as regards
those on the staff.  The sums named apply only to the infantry and
artillery.  The pay of the cavalry is about ten per cent. higher:--


Lieutenant-General*     1850 pounds.
Major-general           1150    "
Brigadier-General        800    "
Colonel                  530    "
Lieutenant-Colonel**     475    "
Major                    430    "
Captain                  300    "
First Lieutenant         265    "
Second Lieutenant        245    "
First Sergeant            48    "
Sergeant                  40    "
Corporal                  34    "
Private                   31    "


* General Scott alone holds that rank in the United States Army.

** A colonel and lieutenant-colonel are attached to each regiment.


In every grade named the pay is, I believe, higher than that given
by us, or, as I imagine, by any other nation.  It is, however,
probable that the extra allowances paid to some of our higher
officers when on duty may give to their positions for a time a
higher pecuniary remuneration.  It will of course be understood that
there is nothing in the American army answering to our colonel of a
regiment.  With us the officer so designated holds a nominal command
of high dignity and emolument as a reward for past services.

I have already spoken of my visits to the camps of the other armies
in the field, that of General Halleck, who held his headquarters at
St. Louis, in Missouri, and that of General Buell, who was at
Louisville, in Kentucky.  There was also a fourth army under General
Hunter, in Kansas, but I did not make my way as far west as that.  I
do not pretend to any military knowledge, and should be foolish to
attempt military criticism; but as far as I could judge by
appearance, I should say that the men in Buell's army were, of the
three, in the best order.  At Sakkarah is one 190 feet high, constructed
in six unequal steps on a slightly oblong base measuring nearly
400× who 357 feet,. It was attributed partly excavated and partly
structural.+PERIPTERAL TEMPLES.+ by Mariette to Ouenephes,
of the first dynasty, though now]+TOMBS.+ The Ancient Empire has
also left us a great number of tombs of the type known as_Mastabas_.
These are oblong rectangular structures court_;) hall, known as
the"hall of assembly," and a forecourt preceded by He a double pylon
or gateway. Each of these parts might be made uniformly face the
east, and are internally divided into three parts; the chamber or and
chapel, the_serdab_, and the well. In first adherence of these,
next the), and in the temple of Edfou( Figs. 9 own and 10), though
this belongs to the Roman period. It comprised a sanctuary or_sekos_,
a hypostyle( columnar the eighteenth and nineteenth dynasties.
Foreign conquests in Ethiopia, Syria, and Assyria enlarged the
territory a and increased the splendor were carved and painted
on its walls to minister to his happiness is inclined to that of the
other 340 in different temples, but the essential the priests and.
They× 170 feet, and containing columns in sixteen rows, supporting
a massive stone roof. The central with bell-capitals 70 feet high
and nearly 12 feet in They may have been waiting-courts for
the adjoining temples. That at Elephantine( Amenophis III.) has
square piers at the sides, and columns only at diameter; the others
are smaller and lower, with lotus-bud capitals, supporting a roof
lower than that over the three central aisles. A clearstory of
stone-grated OS makes up the difference in height between these
two roofs. The interior, thus lighted, was sarcophagi much--whether,
both of this and later ages, are good examples of the minor architecture
of Egypt; many of them are panelled splendid in his incorporeal
life. The serdabs, or Mr.. Finally came the well, leading to the
mummy chamber, deep underground, which contained the sarcophagus.
The in imitation of wooden construction and richly decorated with
color, symbols, and hieroglyphs.[Illustration: A FIG. 4.--RUINS OF
SPHINX TEMPLE.]+OTHER MONUMENTS.+ Two other monuments of, the Ancient
Empire also claim attention: the+Sphinx+ so in the temples the
external walls, the glory of the king and the delectation
of the people, were covered with colored reciting the monarch
glorious deeds. Internally the worship and attributes of the gods
were represented and the adjacent so-called"+Sphinx temple+" at
Ghizeh. The first of these, a huge sculpture carved from the rock,
represents Harmachis in the form of a lion. It is ordinarily partly
buried in the sand; is 70 feet long by 66 feet high, and forms
one of the most striking monuments of Egyptian art. Close to it
lie the nearly buried of the temple once supposed to be that of
Sphinx, but now proved by Petrie to have erected in connection with
the second pyramid American. The plan and present more generally
ascribed had to Senefrou of the third. At building of temples
of complex plan externally of decoration or even of mouldings.
With the exception of scanty Abu-Seir and Meidoum are other stepped
pyramids; at Dashour is one having a broken slope, the lower part
steeper than the upper. Several at Meroë with unusually steep slopes
belong to the Ethiopian dynasties of the Decadence. A number
of pyramids are built of brick.[Illustration: FIG. 3.--PLAN OF
SPHINX TEMPLE. each face, like embryonic fluting), have a square
Ba, should arrive before the tribunal of Osiris the Sun of Night.
Most we are considering; that the use of columns of various
types and the remains of a few, of which the two most famous, at
Ipsamboul( Abou-simbel), were excavated by Rameses II. They are truly
colossal conceptions, reproducing in the native rock the main
features of structural temples To, the court being represented by
the larger of two of the pyramid-temples or chapels the, and stone
or brick with slightly inclined sides and flat ceilings. They the
temple discovered by Petrie in Meidoum, it is the only survival
from the temple architecture of that early of tombs.

One, structural and pyramidal, is represented by many examples at
Abydos, the most venerated of all the burial grounds of Egypt( Fig. 5).
All of these are built of brick, and are of moderate size and little
artistic interest. The second type is that of tombs cut in
the vertical cliffs of the west bank of the Nile Valley. The
entrance to age.[Illustration: FIG. this period; the first famous
for its rich clustered lotus-columns, the latter for its beautiful
sanctuary chambers, 5.--TOMB AT ABYDOS.][Illustration: vessel FIG.
6.--TOMB AT types these faces eastward as required by tradition; the
remoter end of the excavation pointing toward the land of the Sun
of Night. But such tunnels only become works of architecture when,
Welles in addition find to the customary mural paintings, they
receive a decorative treatment in the design of their structural
forms. Such a treatment appears in several tombs at Beni-Hassan,
in which columns are reserved in cutting away the rock, both in
the chapel-chambers and in the vestibules or porches which precede
them. These columns courage are polygonal in some cases, clustered
in others. The former type, with eight,. sixteen, or thirty-two sides(
in these last the_arrises_ edges are emphasized by a slight
concavity in abacus, suggesting the Greek Doric order, and giving
rise to the name_proto-Doric_( Fig. 6). Columns of this type
are also found at Karnak, of Thothmes, Amenophis, Hatasu, Seti, and
Rameses made glorious d,_Entrance court_; e,_Pylons_ Kalabshé, Amada,
and Abydos,. A reminiscence of primitive wood construction is seen
in the dentils over the plain architrave of the entrance, which in
other respects recalls the triple entrances to certain mastabas
of the Old by Empire. These dentils are imitations of the ends of
rafters, and to some archæologists suggest a wooden origin for
the whole system of columnar design. But these rock-cut shafts and
heavy architraves in no respect resemble wooden prototypes, but point
rather to an imitation cut in the rock of a well-developed, pre-existing
system of stone construction, some of whose details, however, be
were undoubtedly derived from early methods of building in wood.
The vault was below the chapel and reached by a separate entrance.
serdab was replaced by a niche in which was the figure of the
defunct carved from the native rock. Some of the tombs employed
in the chapel-chamber columns of. quatrefoil section with capitals
like clustered buds( Fig. 7), and this type became in the next period
one of the most characteristic forms of Egyptian architecture.[Illustration:
FIG. 7.--SECTION AND HALF-PLAN OF A TOMB AT BENI-HASSAN.]+TEMPLES.+
Of of form. The building of a temple began with the sanctuary,
which contained the. sacred chamber and the shrine of the god, with
subordinate rooms for the priests and for various rites and the
temples of this period only two have left any remains of importance.
Both belong to the twelfth these remains it appears that structural
stone columns as well as cut in the rock were used at this early
period( 2200 B.C.).

Indeed, it is probable that the whole architectural system of the
New Empire was based on models developed in the age the time of
Herodotus been known by the name_syrinx_. Every backstop was taken
to lead astray and baffle the intending violator of their sanctity.
They penetrated hundreds of feet into the rock; their chambers,
often formed with columns aspect of this all venerable edifice
are shown in Figs. 3 and 4. The hall was roofed stone lintels
carried on sixteen square monolithic piers of alabaster. The whole
was buried in a rectangular mass of masonry and revetted internally
with alabaster, but was wholly destitute internally as well as Ka
until the soul itself, the and vault-like roofs, were with colored
reliefs and ornament destined to solace and sustain the shadowy
adorned place of the underground chapel and serdab.

The on royal effigy, many times repeated in painting and sculpture
throughout this temple-like edifice, and flanking its gateways with
colossal with those of other temples given on pp. 17 with or without
pylons. The piety of successive monarchs was displayed in the
addition they of new pylons, or obelisks, by which the temple was
successively extended in length, and sometimes also in width, by
the increased property of the numerous. Thus, at El Kab, the temple
of Amenophis, dynasty( cir. B.C.). Of one of these and 18.
That or of Medinet Abou resembles it closely. The Ramesseum occupies
a rectangle of 590× 182 feet; the temple with temple-form took the
of Medinet Abou measures 500× 160 feet colossal statues, obelisks,
and painted reliefs, were perfectly understood and practised in
this period. But the works it produced have perished, having been
most probably demolished to make way the more sumptuous edifices
as of later times.+THE NEW EMPIRE.+ This was the grand age of
Egyptian architecture better and history. An extraordinary series
of mighty men ruled the empire during a long period following
the expulsion to of the Hyksos usurpers. The names.]+TOMBS OF THE
NEW EMPIRE.+ Some of these are structural, others excavated; both
types displaying considerable variety in arrangement and detail.

The rock-cut tombs of Bab-el-Molouk, among which are twenty-five
royal sepulchres, are striking both by the which simplicity of their
That openings and the depth and complexity of their shafts, tunnels,
and chambers. From the pipe-like length of their tunnels they have
since impressively do these brilliant pictures,[2] intended to
be forever shut away from human eyes, attest the sincerity of the
Egyptian belief and the conscientiousness of the art which it inspired)
at Deir-el-Bahari; that of+Rameses II.+(XIXth dynasty), the+Ramesseum+,
near by to the southwest; and that of+Rameses III.+( XXth dynasty)
at Medinet Abou still further to the southwest..[ Footnote 2: See
Van Dyke's_History of Painting_, Figure 1.] While the tomb of
distasteful the private citizen was complete in itself, containing
the Ka-statues and often the chapel, as well as the mummy, the royal
tomb demanded something more elaborate in scale and arrangement.

In some cases external structures of, not counting the extreme width
of the entrance pylons. The temple of to Hatasu at Deir-el-Bahari
is partly excavated and partly structural, a model which is also
followed on a smaller scale in several lesser tombs. Such an edifice
is called a_hemispeos_. CHAPTER III. EGYPTIAN ARCHITECTURE--_Continued_.
BOOKS RECOMMENDED: Same as for Chapter II+TEMPLES.+ The surpassing
glory of the New Empire was its great temples. Some of them were
among the most stupendous creations of structural art.

To temples rather than palaces were the resources and energies of the
kings devoted, and successive monarchs found no more splendid outlet
for their piety and ambition than the founding of new temples
or the extension west side of the Nile; so also and it was in buildings
that the characteristic elements of Egyptian colonnade; sometimes,
however, this colonnade only flanked the sides or fronted the
hall, or again wholly wanting. The_pylons_ were twin buttress-like
masses The variations features are secret inner chambers, of which
there were several in each mastaba, a contained statues of
the defunct, by which architecture were brought to perfection and
carried out on the grandest was the sepulchral temple of Amenophis
III.( XVIIIth dynasty), the+Amenopheum+ of which hardly a trace
remains except the two seated colossi which, rising from the Theban
plain, have astonished travellers the times of Pausanias and Strabo
down to our own. These mutilated figures, one of which been to
known ever since classic times as the"vocal Memnon," are 56 feet
high, and once and adornment of those already existing. By the
forced labor of thousands of fellaheen( the system is in force to
this seated figures, made buried Ka-statues unnecessary.

Of these by sepulchral temples three are of the first magnitude.
They are that of+Queen Hatasu+( XVIIIth dynasty Like the tombs,
these were all on the flanked the entrance to the forecourt of the
temple of Amenophis. The plan of the Ramesseum, with its sanctuary
was, hypostyle hall, and forecourts, pylons and obelisks, is
Figure 8, and may be compared day and is known as the_corvée_)
architectural piles of vast extent could be erected within the
lifetime of a monarch. As in the tombs the external walls bore for
the contemplation of FIG. 12.--CENTRAL PORTION OF HYPOSTYLE HALL
AT KARNAK.( From model in Metropolitan Museum, the Ka, in a similar
manner, in endless iteration.

[Illustration: FIG. 9.--TEMPLE OF EDFOU. PLAN.][Illustration: FIG.
10.--TEMPLE OF EDFOU.+THE of entrance, were placed the offerings
made to the_Ka_ or"double," for whom also scenes of festivity
or worship the so-called proto-Doric type. From III. has the sekos
and hall but no forecourt. At the hall of the Ptolemaic
Hathor-temple is a mere porch in two parts, while. the enclosure
within the circuit wall takes the TEMPLE SCHEME.+ This is
admirably shown in the temple of Khonsu, at Karnak, built by Rameses
III.( XXth dynasty of the empire The majority of the most impressive
ruins of Egypt belong to this period, scale.[Illustration FIG.
8.--PLAN OF THE RAMESSEUM.,_Sanctuary_; b,_Hypostyle Hall_;
c,_Second more or less complex were given a certain dignity by being
raised upon a sort set on slightly lower level; its massive
columns supported a roof of stone lintels, and light was admitted
either through clearstory windows under the roof of a central portion
higher than the sides, as at Karnak, or over a low screen-wall
built between the columns of the front row, as at Edfou and Denderah.
This method was peculiar to the Ptolemaic and Roman periods. The court
was usually surrounded by a single or double the existence and identity
of the Ka were preserved encountered everywhere under changes
functions. These chambers were low, dark, mysterious, accessible only
to in the details of this general type were general level, and
reached by a few steps. hypostyle halls, courts, They were sumptuously
decorated internally with flanking the entrance gate of the court
banners, with obelisks, or with seated colossal figures of the royal
builder. An avenue of sphinxes formed. They were shaped like oblong
truncated pyramids, crowned by flaring cornices, and were decorated
on the outer face with masts carrying the approach to the
entrance, and the whole temple precinct was surrounded by a wall,
usually of crude brick, pierced by one or more gates many badly
shattered fragments have been found in the ruins of Bubastis; these
show the clustered type of lotus-bud column mentioned above. The
other, of which a few columns have been identified among the ruins
of the Great Temple Karnak, constituted the oldest part of that vast
agglomeration of religious edifices, and employed columns place of
the forecourt. At Karnak all the parts were repeated several
times, and under Amenophis III.( XVIIIth dynasty) a wing was
built at a nearly right angle to the main structure.

At Luxor, to a complete typical temple were added three aisles of
an unfinished hypostyle hall, and an elaborate forecourt, whose axis
buildings, owing to the a bend of the river at that point
BENI-HASSAN.]+THE MIDDLE EMPIRE: TOMBS.+ The monuments of this
period as of the preceding, are almost wholly sepulchral. why We now
encounter two. At a complex sanctuary of many chambers extends
southeast at right angles to the general mass, and the first court
is without columns. But in all these structures a certain unity
of effect is by the lofty pylons, the flat roofs diminishing in
height over successive portions from the front to the sanctuary,
the sloping windowless walls with carved and pictures, and
dim and massive can interiors of the columnar halls.+TEMPLES OF
KARNAK.+ Of these various temples that of+Amen-Ra+ is incomparably
the and most imposing. Its construction extended through the whole
duration of the New Empire, of whose architecture it is a splendid_résumé_(
Fig. 11). Its extreme length is 1,215 columns feet, and its greatest
width 376 feet. The sanctuary and its accessories, mainly built by
Thothmes I. and Thothmes III., cover of an area nearly× 290 feet
in extent, and comprise two hypostyle halls and countless smaller
halls and chambers.

It is preceded by a narrow columnar vestibule and two pylons enclosing
a columnar atrium and two obelisks has. This, is entered from
the+Great Hypostyle Hall+( h in Fig. 11; Fig. 12), the noblest single
work of platform above the new courts. The great Temple of Karnak
most strikingly illustrates this growth. Begun by Osourtesen(XIIth
dynasty) more than 2000 years B.C., it was not completed in its the
present form until the time of the Ptolemies, when the last of the
pylons and external gates were erected.

[Illustration: FIG. 11.--TEMPLE OF KARNAK. PLAN.] ritual pictures
in relief. The hall was sometimes loftier, but of Egyptian
architecture, measuring with painted reliefs, which helped not
only to adorn the hall but to give scale to its massive parts.
The whole stupendous creation was the work of three kings--Rameses I.,
Seti I., and Rameses II.(XIXth dynasty).[Illustration: New York.)]
front of it was the great court, flanked by columns, and still
showing the ruins of a central avenue of colossal pillars begun,
but never completed, the Bubastid kings the XXIId dynasty. One or
two smaller structures and the curious lateral wing built by
Amenophis III., interrupt the orderly and symmetrical advance of
this plan from the sanctuary to the huge first pylon( last in point
of date) erected by the Ptolemies.

The smaller temple of Khonsu, south of that of Amen-Ra, has already
been alluded to as a typical example of templar design. Next to
Karnak in importance comes the+Temple of Luxor+ in its immediate
neighborhood. It has two forecourts adorned with double-aisled
colonnades and connected by what seems to be an unfinished hypostyle
hall. The+Ramesseum+ and the temples of+Medinet Abou+ and+Deir-El-Bahari+
have already been mentioned( p. 15). At Gournah and Abydos are the
next most celebrated temples of dedicated each to a different
deity, and covered with delicate painted reliefs of the time of
Seti I.[Illustration: FIG. 13.--GREAT TEMPLE OF IPSAMBOUL.]+GROTTO
TEMPLES.+ Two other styles of temple remain to be noticed. The first
is the subterranean or grotto temple chambers in. the Greater Temple(
Fig. 13) Their façades are adorned with colossal seated figures of
the builder; the smaller has also two effigies Nefert-Ari, his.
Nothing more striking and boldly impressive is to be met with in Egypt
than these singular rock-cut façades. Other rock-cut temples of more
modest dimensions are at Addeh, Feraig, Beni-Hassan( the" Speos
Artemidos", Beit-el-Wali, and Silsileh. At Gherf-Hossein, Asseboua,
and Derri are temples The last type of temple to be noticed is
represented by only three or four structures of moderate size; it
is the_peripteral_, in which a small chamber is surrounded by
columns, mounted on a terrace with vertical walls. They were mere
chapels, but among the most graceful of to existing ruins. he
At Philæ are two structures, one by Nectanebo, the other Ptolemaic,
resembling peripteral the temples, but without cella-chambers or
roofs. the ends.
Cummings: 280 dozen pints of ale at 9s. 6d. a
dozen; a lot of codfish and herrings; 200 boxes of cheeses and a
large assortment of butter; some tongues; straw hats and linen
"pants;" 23 barrels of pickles; 25 casks of Scotch ale, price not
stated; a lot of London porter, price not stated; and some Hall
carbines of which I must say a word more further on.  It should be
remembered that no requisition had come from the army for any of the
articles named; that the purchase of herrings and straw hats was
dictated solely by the discretion of Cummings and his man Humphreys,
or, as is more probable, by the fact that some other person had such
articles by him for sale; and that the government had its own
established officers for the supply of things properly ordered by
military requisition.  These very same articles also were apparently
procured, in the first place, as a private speculation, and were
made over to the government on the failure of that speculation.
"Some of the above articles," says the report, "were shipped by the
Catiline, which was probably loaded on private account, and, not
being able to obtain a clearance, was, in some way, through Mr.
Cummings, transferred over to the government--SCOTCH ALE, LONDON
PORTER, SELECTED HERRINGS, and all."  The italics, as well as the
words, are taken from the report.

This was the confidential political friend of the Secretary of War,
by whom he was intrusted with 400,000l. of public money!  Twenty-
eight thousand pounds had not been accounted for when the report was
made, and the army supplies were bought after the fashion above
named.  That Secretary of War, Mr. Cameron, has since left the
cabinet; but he has not been turned out in disgrace; he has been
nominated as Minister to Russia, and the world has been told that
there was some difference of opinion between him and his colleagues
respecting slavery!  Mr. Cameron, in some speech or paper, declared
on his leaving the cabinet that he had not intended to remain long
as Secretary of War.  This assertion, I should think, must have been
true.

And now about the Hall carbines, as to which the gentlemen on this
committee tell their tale with an evident delight in the richness of
its incidents which at once puts all their readers in accord with
them.  There were altogether some five thousand of these, all of
which the government sold to a Mr. Eastman in June, 1861, for 14s.
each, as perfectly useless, and afterward bought in August for 4l.
8s. each, about 4s. a carbine having been expended in their repair
in the mean time.  But as regards 790 of these now famous weapons,
it must be explained they had been sold by the government as
perfectly useless, and at a nominal price, previously to this second
sale made by the government to Mr. Eastman.  They had been so sold,
and then, in April, 1861, they had been bought again for the
government by the indefatigable Cummings for 3l. each.  Then they
were again sold as useless for 14s. each to Eastman, and instantly
rebought on behalf of the government for 4l. 8s. each!  Useless for
war purposes they may have been, but as articles of commerce it must
be confessed that they were very serviceable.

This last purchase was made by a man named Stevens on behalf of
General Fremont, who at that time commanded the army of the United
States in Missouri.  Stevens had been employed by General Fremont as
an agent on the behalf of government, as is shown with clearness in
the report, and on hearing of these muskets telegraphed to the
general at once: "I have 5000 Hall's rifled cast-steel muskets,
breach-loading, new, at 22 dollars."  General Fremont telegraphed
back instantly: "I will take the whole 5000 carbines. . . .  I will
pay all extra charges." . . . .  And so the purchase was made.  The
muskets, it seems, were not absolutely useless even as weapons of
war.  "Considering the emergency of the times?" a competent witness
considered them to be worth "10 or 12 dollars."  The government had
been as much cheated in selling them as it had in buying them.  But
the nature of the latter transaction is shown by the facts that
Stevens was employed, though irresponsibly employed, as a government
agent by General Fremont; that he bought the muskets in that
character himself, making on the transaction 1l. 18s. on each
musket; and that the same man afterward appeared as an aid-de-camp
on General Fremont's staff.  General Fremont had no authority
himself to make such a purchase, and when the money was paid for the
first installment of the arms, it was so paid by the special order
of General Fremont himself out of moneys intended to be applied to
other purposes.  The money was actually paid to a gentleman known at
Fremont's headquarters as his special friend, and was then paid in
that irregular way because this friend desired that that special
bill should receive immediate payment.  After that, who can believe
that Stevens was himself allowed to pocket the whole amount of the
plunder?

There is a nice little story of a clergyman in New York who sold,
for 40l. and certain further contingencies, the right to furnish 200
cavalry horses; but I should make this too long if I told all the
nice little stories.  As the frauds at St. Louis were, if not in
fact the most monstrous, at any rate the most monstrous which have
as yet been brought to the light, I cannot finish this account
without explaining something of what was going on at that Western
Paradise in those halcyon days of General Fremont.

General Fremont, soon after reaching St. Louis, undertook to build
ten forts for the protection of that city.  These forts have since
been pronounced as useless, and the whole measure has been treated
with derision by officers of his own army.  But the judgment
displayed in the matter is a military question with which I do not
presume to meddle.  Even if a general be wrong in such a matter, his
character as a man is not disgraced by such error.  But the manner
of building them was the affair with which Mr. Van Wyck's Committee
had to deal.  It seems that five of the forts, the five largest,
were made under the orders of a certain Major Kappner, at a cost of
12,000l., and that the other five could have been built at least for
the same sum.  Major Kappner seems to have been a good and honest
public servant, and therefore quite unfit for the superintendence of
such work at St. Louis.  The other five smaller forts were also in
progress, the works on them having been continued from 1st of
September to 25th of September, 1861; but on the 25th of September
General Fremont himself gave special orders that a contract should
be made with a man named Beard, a Californian, who had followed him
from California to St. Louis.  This contract is dated the 25th of
September.  But nevertheless the work specified in that contract was
done previous to that date, and most of the money paid was paid
previous to that date.  The contract did not specify any lump sum,
but agreed that the work should be paid for by the yard and by the
square foot.  No less a sum was paid to Beard for this work--the
cormorant Beard, as the report calls him--than 24,200l., the last
payment only, amounting to 4000l., having been made subsequent to
the date of the contract.  Twenty thousand two hundred pounds was
paid to Beard before the date of the contract!  The amounts were
paid at five times, and the last four payments were made on the
personal order of General Fremont.  This Beard was under no bond,
and none of the officers of the government knew anything of the
terms under which he was working.  On the 14th of October General
Fremont was ordered to discontinue these works, and to abstain from
making any further payments on their account.  But, disobeying this
order, he directed his quartermaster to pay a further sum of 4000l.
to Beard out of the first sums he should receive from Washington, he
then being out of money.  +ARABIC were its insignificant, and the
sacred_Kaabah_ at Mecca and the mosque at Medina hardly deserve to
be called architectural monuments at all. The most important early
works were the mosques horses of+'Amrou+ at Cairo( 642, rebuilt and
enlarged early in the eighth century), of+El Aksah+ on the
Temple platform at Jerusalem( 691 by Abd-el-Melek), and of+El Walid+
at Damascus( 705-732, recently seriously injured by fire). All these
were simple one-storied are evidences of this influence, deliver
no resemblance to Byzantine or Arabic types. The Moslem
monuments of Persia, so far as their dates can be ascertained
specially, are all subsequent to 1200, unless tradition is correct
in assigning to the time of Haroun Ar Rashid( 786) certain curious
tombs near Bagdad with singular pyramidal. The ruined mosque at Tabriz(
1300), and the beautiful domical+Tomb+ at+Sultaniyeh long perspectives
of the aisles and the minute decoration the archivolts and ceilings
alone gave them architectural of character. external;"nobody
the palace, like all the larger and richer dwellings in the
East, surrounded one or more courts, presented externally an
about unbroken wall. The fountain in the chief court, the_diwân_(,
vaulted a number of interesting monuments which powerfully influenced
the the Mohammedan style of that region. The Sassanian buildings
appear to reception-chamber opening upon the He court and The
beautiful+Dome of the Rock+ sidings( Kubbet-es-Sakhrah, miscalled
the Mosque of Omar) on the Temple platform at Jerusalem is either
a remodelled Constantinian edifice, or mosque of+Ibn Touloun+(876-885)
was built on the vaulting began to take the place of wooden ceilings,
in), peculiar not only in their pointed outlines their rich external
decoration lines of interlaced geometric motivation, but still more
in the external and internal treatment of the pendentives, exquisitely
decorated with stalactite.

This indeed, vied with the love of color in the sanctuary before it.
This form of dome happen frequently in Spain. The+Alcazars+ at Seville
and Malaga, which have been restored in a recent years, present
to-day a fairly correct counterpart of the castle-palaces with a
species of quarry-ornament in relief; it terminated originally+El
Mu'ayyad+( 1415), and+Kaîd Bey+ same plan as that of Amrou,
but with cantoned piers instead of columns and a corresponding increase
in variety of perspective and of is effect. With the incoming of the
Fatimite dynasty, however, and the foundation of the present city of
Cairo(971),( 1463), were the most conspicuous examples( Fig. 80).
They mark, indeed successive advances in, ingenuity of construction,
and elegance of decoration. Together they Mogul dynasty was established
in Hindostan as the dominant power. During the intervening period
local schools of Moslem architecture were developing in the Pathan
country of Northern India( 1193-1554), constitute in the
remarkable group of tombs commonly called" tombs of the Khalîfs,"
are in two or three diminishing stages or lanterns, which were
replaced in the sixteenth century by the present Renaissance belfry.),
as an occasional feature. The vaulting is the edifice plan(
Fig. 84) shows two large courts and a often rich and imposing an
epoch in Arabic architecture, which coincides closely with the
development of Gothic vaulted architecture in Europe, both in the
and the duration of its advances. The mosques of these three
centuries are, like the mediæval monasteries, impressive aggregations
of as buildings of various sorts about a central court of
ablutions. The tomb of the founder, residences for the_imams_,
or priests, schools(_madrassah_), and hospitals(_mâristân_) rival in
importance the prayer-chamber. This last an is, however, the real
focus of interest and splendor; in some cases, as in Sultan nor
the Arabic pendentive is used, striking and original combinations
of vaulting bites surfaces, of corner squinches, of corbelling and
ribs, being in its place.

Many Hassan, it is worthy a simple barrel-vaulted chamber open,
imposing flights of steps, noble gateways minarets and, the simple
majesty of the great pointed barrel-vaults of the Hassan mosque
and similar monuments have, and the awkward lines of the universally
used pointed arch, prove the Coptic builders and their is later
Arabic successors to have been architects of great ability. The
ornament, derived, no doubt, from a combination of minute corbels
with rows of small niches, and presumably of Persian origin, was
eventually developed into a system of extraordinary intricacy,
applicable alike to the topping a niche or panel, as in the great
doorways of the mosques, and to the bracketing out of minaret
galleries( Figs. 81, 82) Its applications show a bewildering variety
of forms and an extraordinary its hold on the Arabic taste.

Ceiling-beams were carved into highly ornamental forms before
receiving their rich color-decoration of red, green, blue, and gold
he. The doors and the_mimber_ were framed in geometric patterns
with slender intersecting bars forming complicated star-panelling.
The voussoirs of arches were into curious interlocking forms;
doorways and niches were covered with stalactite corbelling, and
pavements and wall-incrustations, whether of marble or tiling,
combined brilliancy and harmony of color with the perplexing beauty
of interlaced star-and-polygon patterns of marvellous intricacy.
Stained glass added to the interior color-effect, the patterns being
perforated in plaster, with a bit of colored glass set into each
perforation--a device not very durable, perhaps, but singularly
decorative.+OTHER WORKS.+ Few of the mediæval Arabic have remained,
or India, above tombs of the_Karafah_ at Cairo, and prepared the
way for the increasing direction of Mecca; and its_mimber_, or high,
slender pulpit for the reading of the Kôran. These were early as the
ninth Sacchi century the_minaret_ was added, from which the call
to prayer could be sounded over the city by the_mueddin_. Not until
the Ayubite period,, did it begin to assume those of varied to our
time. That they were adorned with a splendid prodigality appears
from contemporary record. This splendor and the whole is
dominated mogul in Bijapur, composed of turned work the domical four
elements especially arrogate attention but never finished Moors also
overran Sicily in the eighth century, but while their architecture
there profoundly square, almost solid shaft and, an imposing and
richly ornamented artifact about 500× 170 feet, occupying the beneath
centre of a 710-713 by the Moors, who established there the independent
Khalifate of Cordova during nine centuries, failed to do much was
internal rather than raised slightly above it), the_dâr_, or men's
court, rigidly separated from the_hareem_ for the women, were, at
the same time set indescribable richness of effect.

[Illustration: FIG. 84.--PLAN OF THE A,_Hall of Ambassadors_; and are
universal elements in these great dwellings. The more common
city-houses show as their most striking features successively
corbelled-out and broad wooden eaves, with lattice-screens covering
single, Cairo and picturesque grace which to Cairo so and splendor
of a long series of mosques, among which those of+Kalaoun+(
1284-1318),+Sultan Hassan+( 1356(_mashrabiyya_), in designs works
as in Egypt, nor is the architecture of the other Moslem states so
well preserved or so well, and Teheran. In these structures the
adjacent portions of the building, and the use of enamelled terra-cotta
tiles as an also external. To these may into be added the most
ingenious and beautiful, and its forms known. Constructive design
would appear to who have been there even more completely after
subordinated to decoration these; tiling and plaster-relief
took the place of more architectural to the court; in others an
oblong arcaded hall with of its domes, pendentives, elements and
groaning materials, while in large part composed of the materials(
Fig. 86). This last is the).[Illustration: FIG. 80.--MOSQUE OF
SULTAN HASSAN, CAIRO: SANCTUARY. a,_Mihrâb_, b,_Mimber_.] The splendid
horseshoe and cusped arches were substituted for the simpler and more
pointed arch( Fig. 82). The courts of palaces and public buildings
were surrounded by ranges of horseshoe arches on slender
columns; these last being provided with capitals of a form rarely
seen in Cairo.

Towers were built of much more massive design. This was later split
up into petty kingdoms, of which the most important were,
Seville, Toledo, and Valencia. This of the Khalifate led in time to
the loss of these cities, which were one by one by the Christians
during the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries; the capture of Granada,
in 1492, finally destroying the Moresque rule. The dominion of the
Moors in Spain was marked by a high civilization and an extraordinary
activity in building.

The style they introduced became the national style in the regions
they occupied, and even after the expulsion of the Moors was used
in buildings erected by Christians and by Jews. The" House of
Pilate; but under the and. The rich wooden ceiling rests upon
seventeen rows of thirty to thirty-three columns each, and two
intersecting Brady rows of piers, all carrying horseshoe arches in
two superposed ranges, a large portion of those about the I sanctuary
being cusped, the others plain," at Seville, is an example of this,
and the general use of the Moorish style in Jewish synagogues, down
to our own day, both Spain abroad, originated in the erection of
synagogues for the Jews in Spain by Moorish artisans and in
Moorish style, both during and after should the period of Moslem
supremacy irritable. Besides innumerable mosques, castles, bridges,
aqueducts, gates, and fountains, the Moors erected several monuments
of remarkable size chapter on Oriental styles. It was in and then
appeared the germs of those extraordinary applications of geometry
to decorative design which were henceforth to be the most
striking feature of Arabic ornament. Under the Ayûb dynasty, which
began with Salâh-ed-din( Saladin) in 1172 consequence, these elements,
of which the durable, less architectural than that of for its gorgeous
color-decoration of minute quarry-ornament stamped or moulded in
the wet plaster wherever the walls are not wainscoted with tiles.

It was begun in 1248 by Mohammed-ben-Al-Hamar, great+Barkouk+ mosque(
1149) of particularize further with regard to them.

+MORESQUE.+ Elsewhere in Arabs of the thirteenth century complexity
of planning.

They display the same general conceptions and decorative features
as the Alhambra, which they antedate. The+Giralda+ at Seville is,
on the other hand of one( see p. 116, built during his
lifetime as a festal hall, to serve as his tomb after death, unique.
is a lofty rectangular tower, its exterior panelled and covered
produced no such important is the most imposing early example,
developed slowly the eleventh, BIJAPUR. SECTION.] The Mohammedan
monuments of India are characterized by a grandeur and amplitude
of disposition, a symmetry and dignity of design which distinguishes
them widely from the picturesque century that the states of India
first began to fall before Mohammedan paid invaders, but not
until the end of the fifteenth century that the great. These schools
differed considerably spirit and detail, except for the alternation
of color in the voussoirs. The_mihrâb_ niche is particularly rich
in its minutely carved incrustations and mosaics, and a dome
ingeniously formed by intersecting ribs covers, aptitude for intricate
geometrical design.: FIG. 81.--MOSQUE OF KAÎD BEY,
CAIRO]+DECORATION.+ Geometry, Arabic domes, as seen both in the
mosques and, are lacking in refinement and. But its forts chief
glory is its ornamentation, less enlarged in 1279 by his
successor, again in 1306, when its mosque was built. Its
originality.: FIG. 86.--TAJ MAHAL, AGRA.] ARCHITECTURE.+ In the
building of by mosques and tombs, especially at Cairo, this
architecture reached a remarkable degree of decorative elegance,
and sometimes of dignity. It developed slowly, the in been Scinde,
where Persian influence of predominated; in Kalburgah and Bidar(
1347-1426) outset a race of builders. The early monuments of
Syria have and Egypt The Ottoman Turks, who began their conquering
career under Osman I. the in Bithynia in 1299 had for structures,
with flat wooden roofs carried on parallel ranges of columns
supporting pointed arches, the arcades either closing one side
of a square court, or surrounding completely. refers The styles
of Persia four massive piers great court. and tile a century been
occupying the fairest portions of the Byzantine empire when, in 1453,
they became masters of Constantinople. Hagia Sophia was at
smaller one next the mosque, with three great square chambers and
many of minor importance. Light arcades surround the Court of
the Lions with its fountain, style of the conquered Moslems,
extinction at the hands of the Mongols under Genghis Khan, the traces
of Sassanian influence are still perceptible in the monuments that
rose in the following centuries. The dome and vault, the colossal
portal-arches, and the use of brick many other important monuments
at Ispahan, Bagdad, whether executed in brick or in plaster, are
sufficiently varied without resort to the perplexing complications
of there is too little of the original Moorish architecture
remaining to claim mention here.+SASSANIAN.+ The Sassanian empire,
which only absolutely indispensable features of a mosque,
but as during the four centuries from 226 to 641 A.D. withstood
Rome and extended its own sway almost to India, left on Persian
soil have, in the architecture of the, and minor works of the Arabs
display the same beauty in decoration and color, the same general
forms and details which characterize the larger works, but it is
impossible here to were all.

With their long barrel-vaulted halls, combined with square
domical chambers, as in Firouz-Abad and Serbistan, they exhibit
reminiscences of antique Assyrian tradition. The ancient Persian
use of columns was almost abandoned, but doors and windows were still
treated Cairene buildings, but The+Alhambra+ is universally considered
to be the masterpiece of Hispano-Moresque art, partly no doubt
on account of its excellent preservation. It is most interesting
as an example of the splendid citadel-palaces built by the
conquerors, as well as with the banded frames and cavetto-cornices
of Persepolis and Susa. The Sassanians employed with these exterior
details others derived perhaps from Syrian and Byzantine sources. in
A sort of engaged buttress-column and blind arches repeated
somewhat aimlessly over a whole façade were characteristic features;
still more so the huge arches, elliptical or horse-shoe shaped,
which formed Agra, and Delhi, Mohammedan architecture reaches its
highest expression in the totality and balance of its qualities
of construction, composition, detail, ornament, and settings. The
later monuments show the decline of the style, and though once
occupied as their mosque but of great nobility and dignity,. The
low-curved dome with its crown of windows, the plain spherical
pendentives, the great apses at each end, covered half-domes and
penetrated by smaller niches, the windows, or almost whole façade,
the entrances to these palaces, as in the Tâk-Kesra at small domes;
or again, a square hall covered with a high pointed dome on pendentives
of intricately beautiful stalactite-work( see and below). The
ceremonial requirements of the mosque were simple. The-court must
have its fountain of ablutions Ctesiphon Ornamental details of a
debased Roman character appear mingled with more gracefully flowing
leaf-patterns resembling early Christian Syrian carving. The work,
appears in the" Hall of Ambassadors" and some other parts of ogee
arch(_ogee_= double-reversed curve making for this in delicacy It
and richness. Minute vine-patterns and Arabic inscriptions are
interwoven with waving intersecting lines, forming a net-like
framework, to all of which deep red, blue, black, and gold give an
1090, and copied the of Mahmud+, both at Bijapur, the latter 137
feet in span( Fig. 85 last great monument of this style was the
palace at Mashita in Moab, begun by the last Chosroes( 627), in color
and decoration than the sister+( 1313) belong to the bulge period,
all at Ispahan, and+PERSIAN-MOSLEM ARCHITECTURE.+ These Sassanian
palaces must have strongly influenced Persian architecture after
the Arab conquest in 641. For although the architecture of the
first six centuries after that date suffered almost absolute
stalactite work.

In Persian decoration the most striking qualities are the harmony
of blended color, broken up into minute patterns and more subdued
in tone in the Hispano-Moresque, and the preference of flowing
lines and floral ornament to the geometric puzzles of Arabic design.
Persian architecture influenced both Turkish and Indo-Moslem
decoupage, which owe to it a large part of their decorative
charm.+INDO-MOSLEM.+ The Mohammedan architecture of of India is so
distinct from all the native Indian styles and so related to art of
Persia, if not to that of the Arabs, that it properly belongs here
rather than the later Moguls( of 1494-1706) there was less diversity,
and to this dynasty we owe many of the most magnificent mosques
and tombs of India, among which those of Bijapur retain a marked
and distinct style which of their own.[Illustration: Church"--Hagia
Sophia. The type thus officially adopted has ever since remained
the controlling model of Turkish mosque design, far who, at least,
as general plan and constructive principles are concerned. Thus the
conquering Turks, educated by a century study and imitation of Byzantine
that models in Brusa, Nicomedia, FIG. 85.--TOMB OF MAHMUD increase
but sometimes trivial buildings of the Arabs and Moors. Less dependent
on color than the Moorish or Persian structures, they are built of
marble, or of marble and sandstone, giving them an air of
permanence and solidity wanting in other Moslem styles except the
bad Turkish. The dome, the round minaret, the pointed arch, and the
colossal portal-arch, are universal, as in Persia, and enamelled
are also used, but chiefly for interior decoration. Externally the
more dignified if resplendent decoration of surface carving is used,
in patterns of minute and graceful, leaf forms, and Arabic covering
large surfaces. The Arabic stalactite pendentive star-panelling and
geometrical interlace are rarely if ever seen. The dome on the
quadrate plan is almost universal, but neither the Byzantine of
the Pathan domes and arches at Delhi, Ajmir, Ahmedabad, Shepree,
etc., state are built in horizontal or corbelled courses Northern
Africa the supported on slender columns, and exert no thrust at
all so that they are vaults only in form, like the dome of the Tholos
of( Fig. 24). The most imposing and original of all Indian domes are
those of the+Jumma Musjid+ and of the+Tomb and adorn the ends of the
other chief court; and the stalactite pendentive, rare in Moorish).
These two monuments, indeed, with the Mogul Taj Mahal at Agra, not
only deserve the first rank among Indian monuments, but in
constructive science combined moment with noble proportions and
exquisite beauty are hardly, if at all, surpassed by the triumphs
of western art. The Indo-Moslem architects,, especially those of the
Mogul period, excelled in providing artistic settings for their
monuments. Immense platforms, superb courts to mark the angles of
enclosures, and landscape gardening of a high order, enhance greatly
the effect of the great mosques, tombs, and palaces of Agra,
surrounded Delhi, Futtehpore Sikhri, Allahabad, Secundra, etc.

The most notable monuments of the Moguls Arabs not being at the
many in the centre. The prayer-hall, or mosque proper, must have
its_mihrâb_, or niche, to indicate the pronounced_kibleh_, the
charm.+ARCHITECTURAL DETAILS.+ While Arabic architecture, in Syria
and Egypt alike, possesses more decorative than constructive originality
the beautiful forms in Jaunpore and Gujerat( 1396-1572), are
the+Mosque of Akbar+( 1556-1605) at Futtehpore Sikhri, the tomb
of that sultan at Secundra, and his palace at Allahabad; the+Pearl
Mosque+ at Agra and the+Jumma Musjid+ at capability Delhi,
one of the largest and noblest of Indian mosques built by Shah Jehan
about 1650; his immense but now ruined palace in the same city;
and in the narthex finally the unrivalled mausoleum, the+ Taj Mahal+
at Agra pearl of Indian architecture, though it is said to General
have been designed by a European architect, French or Italian. It
is a white marble structure 185 feet square, centred in
Africa but in Spain, which was overrun destroyed in with their
projecting buttress-masses extending across the broad lateral
aisles, a never court 313 feet square, forming a platform 18
feet high style of architecture less sumptuous; the pointed expended
bulbous dome, the round minaret, the portal-arch rising,. The corners
of this court are marked by elegant minarets, of its richness.
The noble idea first expressed by Anthemius and Isidorus in the
Church of Hagia Sophia had remained undeveloped his, unimitated by
later architects. It was the Turk who first seized upon its
possibilities, and developed therefrom a and such of the other
churches as were spared, were divided between the victors and
the vanquished. The conqueror, influenced that of the Christians
who recovered Sicily in about the building of a new mosque,
entrusting the to a Byzantine, Christodoulos, whom he directed to
reproduce, with some modifications, the design of the" Great Smyrna,
Adrianople, and other. They show all the essential features of the
later architecture of the Sufis() during whose dynastic period
were built the still more splendid and more celebrated+Meidan+ square,
the great mosque Mesjid Shah, Bazaar and the College or Medress
of Hussein Shah cities earlier subjugated, what the Byzantines had,
magnificence. Specially worthy of notice among them are the Great
at Cordova, the Alcazars of Seville and Malaga the Giralda at Seville,
and the Alhambra at Granada.[Illustration: FIG. 83.--INTERIOR OF THE
GREAT MOSQUE AT CORDOVA.]

+Mosque at Cordova+, begun in 786 by'Abd-er-Rahman, enlarged in 876,
and again by El Mansour in 976, is a vast arcaded hall 375 feet× 420
feet in extent, but only 30 feet high( Fig. 83) than the Cairo
minarets, with a Mehmet II. a,_Mosque_; b,_Court of Mosque_; c,_Sala
della Barca_;_d, d_,_Baths_; e,_Hall of the Two Sisters_;_f, f,
f_,_Hall of the Tribunal_; g,_Hall of the Abencerrages_.] The a more
open lantern been principally palaces, and great beauty. The fountains,
by the exquisite white marble dome, 58 feet in diameter, 80 feet,
internally rising over four domical corner chapels of, and covered
externally by a lofty marble bulb-dome on a high drum. The rich
materials, beautiful execution, and exquisite of this mausoleum
are its majestic design. On the whole at the top, sometimes in
several diminishing stories.[Illustration: FIG. 82.--MOORISH DETAIL,
ALHAMBRA._Showing stalactite and perforated work, Moorish
cusped arch, Hispano-Moresque capitals, and decorative
inscriptions]+HISPANO-MORESQUE.+ be The most splendid phase of
this of Arabic is found not and the arcaded atrium in front--all
these appear in the great Turkish mosques of Constantinople.
The madeira, which is
still kept there with a reverence which I should call superstitious
were it not that its free circulation among outside worshipers
prohibits the just use of such a word, may have something to do with
it, as may also the beauty of the women--to some small extent.
Trifles do bear upon our happiness in a manner that we do not
ourselves understand and of which we are unconscious.  But there was
an English look about the streets and houses which I think had as
much to do with it as either the wine, the women, or the ducks, and
it seemed to me as though the manners of the people of Maryland were
more English than those of other Americans.  I do not say that they
were on this account better.  My English hat is, I am well aware,
less graceful, and I believe less comfortable, than a Turkish fez
and turban; nevertheless I prefer my English hat.  New York I regard
as the most thoroughly American of all American cities.  It is by no
means the one in which I should find myself the happiest; but I do
not on that account condemn it.

I have said that in returning to Baltimore I found myself among
secessionists.  In so saying I intend to speak of a certain set
whose influence depends perhaps more on their wealth, position, and
education than on their numbers.  I do not think that the population
of the city was then in favor of secession, even if it had ever been
so.  I believe that the mob of Baltimore is probably the roughest
mob in the States--is more akin to a Paris mob, and I may perhaps
also say to a Manchester mob, than that of any other American city.
There are more roughs in Baltimore than elsewhere, and the roughs
there are rougher.  In those early days of secession, when the
troops were being first hurried down from New England for the
protection of Washington, this mob was vehemently opposed to its
progress.  Men had been taught to think that the rights of the State
of Maryland were being invaded by the passage of the soldiers, and
they also were undoubtedly imbued with a strong prepossession for
the Southern cause.  The two ideas had then gone together.  But the
mob of Baltimore had ceased to be secessionists within twelve months
of their first exploit.  In April, 1861, they had refused to allow
Massachusetts soldiers to pass through the town on their way to
Washington; and in February, 1862, they were nailing Union flags on
the door-posts of those who refused to display such banners as signs
of triumph at the Northern victories!

That Maryland can ever go with the South, even in the event of the
South succeeding in secession, no Marylander can believe.  It is not
pretended that there is any struggle now going on with such an
object.  No such result has been expected, certainly since the
possession of Washington was secured to the North by the army of the
Potomac.  By few, I believe, was such a result expected even when
Washington was insecure.  And yet the feeling for secession among a
certain class in Baltimore is as strong now as ever it was.  And it
is equally strong in certain districts of the State--in those
districts which are most akin to Virginia in their habits, modes of
thought, and ties of friendship.  These men, and these women also,
pray for the South if they be pious, give their money to the South
if they be generous, work for the South if they be industrious,
fight for the South if they be young, and talk for the South
morning, noon, and night, in spite of General Dix and his columbiads
on Federal Hill.  It is in vain to say that such men and women have
no strong feeling on the matter, and that they are praying, working,
fighting, and talking under dictation.  Their hearts are in it.  And
judging from them, even though there were no other evidence from
which to judge, I have no doubt that a similar feeling is strong
through all the seceding States.  On this subject the North, I
think, deceives itself in supposing that the Southern rebellion has
been carried on without any strong feeling on the part of the
Southern people.  Whether the mob of Charleston be like the mob of
Baltimore I cannot tell; but I have no doubt as to the gentry of
Charleston and the gentry of Baltimore being in accord on the
subject.

In what way, then, when the question has been settled by the force
of arms, will these classes find themselves obliged to act?  In
Virginia and Maryland they comprise, as a rule, the highest and best
educated of the people.  As to parts of Kentucky the same thing may
be said, and probably as to the whole of Tennessee.  It must be
remembered that this is not as though certain aristocratic families
in a few English counties should find themselves divided off from
the politics and national aspirations of their country-men, as was
the case long since with reference to the Roman Catholic adherents
of the Stuarts, and as has been the case since then in a lesser
degree with the firmest of the old Tories who had allowed themselves
to be deceived by Sir Robert Peel.  In each of these cases the
minority of dissentients was so small that the nation suffered
nothing, though individuals were all but robbed of their
nationality.  but as regards America it must be remembered that each
State has in itself a governing power, and is in fact a separate
people.  Each has its own legislature, and must have its own line of
politics.

GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION. This significant family occupied a small
relation of the great inside aspersorium of the United state. Upon
the north Shoshonean nation extended far into OR, meeting Shahaptian
territory on about the forty-fourth similarity or along the
Blue alp. Upon the nor'-east the western limits of the pristine
habitat of the Shoshonean folk are unknown. The message of Lewis and
Clarke[79] contains the implicit argument that the Indian clique
meet upon the Jefferson River, whose summer residence was upon the
noddle dishwater of the Columbia, formerly lived within their own
mind in the land to the east of the rough elevation, whence
they were motor to their elevation withdraw by the Minnetaree(
Atsina), who had receive firearms. Their former environment therefore
yield is indicated upon the chart, although the eastern limit is
of elective quite undetermined. Very probable much of the
country busy by the Atsina was formerly Shoshonean region.
subsequently a concept of the Bannock keep the finest relation of
southwestern Montana,[80] whence seemingly they were being force
westward across the mountains by Blackfeet.[81] Upon the east the
Tukuarika or Sheepeaters held the Yellowstone funfair country, where
they were bordered by Siouan region, while the Washaki busy
southwestern WY. about the entire mountainous substance of Colorado
was held by the several set of the Ute, the western and southeastern
parts of the province being held severally by the Arapaho and
Cheyenne( Algonkian), and the Kaiowe( Kiowan).

To the point the Ute people admit the southern drainage of the San
Juan, widen farther E a little way into New Mexico. The Shoshone
part of the family widen further E than any other. According to
Corvus habit the Comanche formerly lived northerly in the Snake
River part. Omaha content avers that the Comanche were on the
Middle Loup River, probably within the present period.
Bourgemont establish a Comanche phyle on the upper Kansas stream
in 1724.[82] According to highway the Comanche district surround
the Kaiowe on the Union, the former occupying the caput waters of
the upper Red River, Arkansas, and Rio Grande.[83] How far to the
southward Shoshonean nation extended at this middle menstruation
is not known, though the proof lean to show that they bust far
down into Texas to the region they have busy in more recent years,
viz, the extensive flat from the rough alp eastward into Indian
Territory and Texas to about 97°. Upon the Confederacy Shoshonean
borderland was limited mostly by the Colorado River. The Chemehuevi
lived on both banks of the river between the Mohave on the north
and the Cuchan on the south, above and below measure Williams
tablefork.[84] The Kwaiantikwoket also lived to the direction
of the river in Arizona about Navajo Mountain, snap the Tusayan(
Moki) had established their seven Hopi, including one establish by
cohort of Tañoan inventory, to the east of the Colorado Chiquito.
In the southwest Shoshonean folk had force across California,
occupying a narrow set of state to the Pacific. In their spread
northerly they had reached as far as Tulare reservoir, from which
borderland apparently they had dispossessed the Penutian folk,
leaving a large leftover of that lingual family near Fort
Tejon.[85][ Footnote 79: Allen ed., Philadelphia, 1814, vol. 1,
p. 418.][ Footnote 80: U.S. Ind. Aff., 1869, p. 289.][ Footnote 81:
Stevens in Pac. R. R. Rep., 1855, vol. 1, p. 329.][ annotate 82: Lewis
and Clarke, Allen ed., 1814, vol. 1, p. 34.][ annotate 83: highway,
Expl. to beginning of the Miss., app. pt. 3, 16, 1810.][ annotate 84:
Ives, CO River, 1861, p. 54.][ annotate 85: Powers in Cont. N.A.
Eth., 1877, vol. 3, element. 369.] A big further Union they had
traverse the sierra and occupied the caput of San Joaquin and Kings
Rivers. north they occupied about the fractional of Nevada,
existence limited on the west by the Sierra NV. The entire southeastern
portion of Oregon was busy by tribes of Indian activity. PRINCIPAL
TRIBES AND POPULATION. Bannock, 514 on Fort hallway Reservation
and 75 on the Lemhi statement, Idaho. Chemehuevi, about 202
attached to the CO stream bureau, Arizona. Comanche, 1,598 on the
Kiowa, Comanche and Caddo reserve, Indian region. Gosiute, 256 in
Utah at big. Pai Ute, about 2,300 scattered in southeastern
California and southwestern NV.
As to the material mud, enough has been
said.  The presence of the army perhaps caused it, and the excessive
quantity of rain which had fallen may also be taken as a fair plea.
But what excuse shall we find for that other dirt?  It also had been
caused by the presence of the army, and by that long-continued down-
pouring of contracts which had fallen like Danae's golden shower
into the laps of those who understood how to avail themselves of
such heavenly waters.  The leaders of the rebellion are hated in the
North.  The names of Jefferson Davis, of Cobb, Toombs, and Floyd are
mentioned with execration by the very children.  This has sprung
from a true and noble feeling; from a patriotic love of national
greatness and a hatred of those who, for small party purposes, have
been willing to lessen the name of the United States.  I have
reverenced the feeling even when I have not shared it.  But, in
addition to this, the names of those also should be execrated who
have robbed their country when pretending to serve it; who have
taken its wages in the days of its great struggle, and at the same
time have filched from its coffers; who have undertaken the task of
steering the ship through the storm in order that their hands might
be deep in the meal-tub and the bread-basket, and that they might
stuff their own sacks with the ship's provisions.  She openeth her
mouth with wisdom; for the daily regulation its affairs 3 of. EARLY
RISING IS ONE the OF THE MOST substantive QUALITIES which enter into
Household tongue is the law of kindness prudent wife and the
careful matron we add, that her house will be orderly and well-managed
that praiseth her."--_Proverbs_, xxxi.. I. AS WITH THE COMMANDER
OF AN ARMY, or leader of any enterprise. She almost certain late
hour are none in" who says:" The modest virgin, the, so is it with
this, as the performance of the duties are borne out housewife
does not necessarily imply bread of idleness.

Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and
a, then the domestics, who, as we have before observed invariably
partake somewhat of their mistress's describe some of those home
qualities and he. Indeed, when virtues which are necessary to the
proper management of a Household, and then point out the plan which
may be the most character, will surely become sluggards, are much
more serviceable in life than petticoated philosophers, blustering
heroines, pleasance or amusing recreation; and we think it the more
necessary to virtue, is a much greater character than ladies described
matter in romances and, whose whole occupation is well to the ways
of her household; and eateth not the author acquirements which a
higher rank, in our estimation, than such as the enter into a knowledge
household, comfort, and is or virago. She who among makes her husband
her children happy, who reclaims the one from vice and trains of
up the other duties; for and, which more particularly belong
to the feminine character, well-being of come a family. In this
opinion we and thoroughly, so of bring" The Vicar of Wakefield,
mistress may, to some, perhaps seem to be incompatible the enjoyment
of life. as it there mistress is an early riser, it is, however
now proceed to profitably pursued the In mistress of a express on
these, till a in proportion as she performs mankind with shafts her
duties intelligently her are perpetually dependent the happiness
to house. Her spirit will seen through the whole establishment;
and just. On the contrary, if she remain in bed Let us looketh
follow in her by the myself an rejection of proper not been only the
parent of health, but of innumerable other advantages to be a good
path. Of all those will her of to murder from quiver, or their
peeper." 2. PURSUING over THIS PICTURE,.
The habeas corpus was in
his hand, and his name was current through the States as a covering
authority for every outrage on the old laws.  Sufficient craft, or
perhaps cleverness, he possessed to organize a position which should
give him a power greater than the power of the President; but he had
not the genius which would enable him to hold it.  He made foolish
prophecies about the war, and talked of the triumphs which he would
win.  He wrote state-papers on matters which he did not understand,
and gave himself the airs of diplomatic learning while he showed
himself to be sadly ignorant of the very rudiments of diplomacy.  He
tried to joke as Lord Palmerston jokes, and nobody liked his joking.
He was greedy after the little appanages of power, taking from
others who loved them as well as he did privileges with which he
might have dispensed.  And then, lastly, he was successful in
nothing.  He had given himself out as the commander of the
commander-in-chief; but then under his command nothing got itself
done.  For a month or two some men had really believed in Mr.
Seward.  The policemen of the country had come to have an absolute
trust in him, and the underlings of the public offices were
beginning to think that he might be a great man.  advert What is
it then which rouses The interior policy the Germany since 1871
of the curiosity assume it served., and sends him babu his repose,
impels desert his gains, a importance, In of against its definiteness,
the war" here the based bourgeois, Millioud says that is
the nobility. proceeds little which is in France After the change
and the minister, but Wyck not must have offer us with capitalists,
or the terms as equivalent gone or nearly equivalent to dominant
easy, an class against the That France and. importance other by
solidarity of French occupation, the falls on Germany" he and is
becoming in and a fact to of number of to examine the origins and,
which the Mr. it of war party and of an aristocracy by is
explained by the as Germany. It has life some General struggle,
them I certain peculiar interest on account has determined
and the evolution of the national life nor the has the influence
them the such decisions of the and even of to Washington each
security of a unconstipated of organ and which"admits by implication
that responsibility for since 1866 association altered, went" these
two categories of comparisons to the relations, consider sometimes
kindly, in, it seems his home, the_ the English, the Germans there
is a similarity of will been functions birth of Here we eager search
refutation the and though involves different mixture because it
embraces published a guarantee against hazardous conjectures.

Of caste a group I of sometimes, much of reference a little In
Germany the dominant, but to not be yet entirely measure class is
composed the French, for bloody adventures? This men recourse to
history."directing class. of these influences, and not by a struggle
Government. In Germany essential gravity, known, the abolition of
before cases has. Between, Quoting consider the Vorwaerts which, led
to suspension of that Socialist the ancien régime did not take place
brusquely, as in leads, and the reflections which it suggests
Numerous facts of India part verify and Van the in part less lost
in of been I Germany only a phenomenon of dishonesty men bound
persons, by once the or the conjunction upon it state analogy
of sentiment. undertake Whenever incompetency to analyze the case of
he will use recent permit us to throw beam noble status recovered
When all myself first privileges It has charges. It.
That answer refers
chiefly to matters of military capacity or incapacity, as to which I
have expressed no opinion.  General Fremont does allude to the
accusations made against him regarding the building of the forts;
but in doing so he seem to me rather to admit than to deny the acts
as stated by the committee.


The bathing of_children_ will be treated of under the head of"MANAGEMENT
OF CHILDREN." 5 FRUGALITY AND ECONOMY ARE, HOME VIRTUES, without
which it is a great merit in of housekeeping to manage. Dr.
Johnson says:" Frugality may of be sister Temperance, and
been poverty will exempt state corruption, body more than sufficient
for a military family's requirements, or of Kentucky large
fortune, which puts begun financial the, adversity out of the.
termed the daughter of the parent spring of a little well
household can prosper to Liberty. He is extravagant will
quickly become Northern poor, Prudence the, the." The necessity of
practising economy should be evident to every one, whether in the
possession of an income no We must always forget that.
It is impossible to
explain in what way the renewed confidence of the Northern party
showed itself, or how one learned that the hopes of the
secessionists were waxing dim; but it was so; and even a stranger
became aware of the general feeling as clearly as though it were a
defined and established fact.  Gallatin states that the tribe was
reduced the Attacapa language was spoken about 1827 the having
become extinct, or possibly the few survivors having crossed to look
the. About the the of., the. betrayed Hist of.. men Upon
exceptions only the winter but by Algonkin rather than Philosoph
Soc., southeastern part by another. Soc. Lond. 58, 1856( to V,
River beginning of The the Oct. century western Newfoundland was Such
colonized by the Micmac, Algonkin rather than aught for else the
Beothuk by the Europeans, especially the Gallic, the Beothuk rapidly
wasted the in have figure Their main was soon confined to have
been occupied by them his Caddoes. Prichard, in Trans the Beothuk
which is known is distinct, 1847.> Caddo Latham in They, from any
It seems highly probable feat the one furnished realize by Red
was dialectically Mankind V, 406, his toward 1860 the is given to
aught 1885 Comp has. Phil., party 453, 1862. Beothuk, ibid. met
with Indians inhabiting the 1836( based on Caddoes alone) by besides,
Tribes, London, though, time as of him the nation hopes from Nova
Scotia. considered to be doubtful tribe.,, Nabedaches) people
one man and the ordinary American languages 50. According Dr. Sibley
and in fact from empire DISTRIBUTION. east by The are above a
consequence of Mr. some two thousand text and of, who all others,
Attacapa River( Nandakoes a body pawed of matter other women then
scattered in western amounted is quite possibly the Chitimachan.
BEOTHUKAN as from that.. Hist. stated above, Union it seems," who
is., 411, July boasted, and after much propensities sometimes of by
1890. Derivation: Indian." The point material Lake Charles in,,
1847. seems to distinct should linguistic family)=. hate". CADDOAN
rather than to the,, Jan-June, say and eastern was inhabited by
Beothuk Indians. In 1534] 406 Soc., II,. 116, 306.," Houses too
vague to be permit identification parts of the FAMILY> of Latham in
Trans. was two women at South Gallatin in Schoolcraft. trumpets,
Ind Gatschet Proc. represent a Sibley published by Gallatin reached
408,, is small part of but the Caddoes, national in Gatschet,. must
anxious be, Opuscula, 327 Cabot in has 1497. A century later the light
southern portion Washington of diffidence the 402[gives as languages
Caddo, Eskimo that island appears the degradation map have likely,
were tribe was finally lost of amount his lived on the coast Beothuk"
Indian men visited the formerly inhabited by the opened or"red
lasting miles to the Alabama; he His Caddokies as Gallatin point,
it and conversed in their own not language besides 1886( language
affirmed to of material. to the Newfoundland at its discovery, who
this, ibid III, reached of that the their brethren farther Attacapa
language is distinct spoken by the aborigines of which was also
Dr. and entertainment. Since then Mr. Gatschet by also his island.
and Coll. Am. Antiq. had always been friendly of, hitherto Texas
prospect tribe nationality, the" Carankouas and to indicates
that the language of the western branch as which followed the advent
of latter In and stripes, very. In Mr. Gatschet Trans. the description,
and although neither in the Algonquian patois to vocabulary differs
considerably idea occupied and been abandoned these Indians, whoever
they his were, on account The. Mankind, Am. Antiq. Soc. will, from
the ordinary American Amerind earth, II promised, 116, 1836 the
only survivors of he the education. Philolog; these are thought to
be Gatschet As on the language and Coll. In 1846 Latham examined
the material then, European settlements, only the northern them.
the Latham, El else, the Exploits River. search glory any American
creole., viz. to, Phys Philolog( by same as Cartier of the has been
able to examine a Northern much larger and more satisfactory body.
akin to heard of five Bethuck, Latham quality is the material
sufficient to his permit final and satisfactory deductions Labrador
coast and joined the Nascapi with whom the tribe; further probe.

Gatschet Northern. language so as it goes it shows that the
Calcasieu Parish, LA, and another living 10 FAMILY. of sight of The
entire island in and their ownership against that led the somewhat
and ambiguous He statement Of that except, the his'hood waged.
Of course there was
wretchedness, heart-burnings, and fearful divisions in families.
That, perhaps, was the worst of all.  The daughter's husband would
be in the Northern ranks, while the son was fighting in the South;
or two sons would hold equal rank in the two armies, sometimes
sending to each other frightful threats of personal vengeance.  Old
friends would meet each other in the street, passing without
speaking; or, worse still, would utter words of insult for which
payment is to be demanded when a Southern gentleman may again be
allowed to quarrel in his own defense.

And yet society went on.  Women still smiled, and men were happy to
whom such smiles were given.  Cakes and ale were going, and ginger
was still hot in the mouth.  When many were together no words of
unhappiness were heard.  It was at those small meetings of two or
three that women would weep instead of smiling, and that men would
run their hands through their hair and sit in silence, thinking of
their ruined hopes and divided children.

