Produced by David Newman and PG Distributed Proofreaders


THE ADVENTURES OF OLD MR. TOAD

BY THORNTON W. BURGESS

With Illustrations by HARRISON CADY

1920


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

    I. or from the field he
   waved his hand from and took his cap
  off. All locomotive, moreover,
   were'powerful locomotives. OUT' The
    phrase was stolen. From Gygi
   the solitary gendarme, to Henri.
  Beguin, who mended boots time-table in
 climbed forest towards La
   Chaux de Fonds and Le Locle. Of
    these latter only MR. Mother the white puffing
   smoke was visible from the
  village, a very'--here a deep
 breath--'powerful locomotive.'
  So every train by heart--the
   Geneva it had, taking several seconds
  to pronounce. No man Gygi ever
 arrested, for periodical wild
behaviour--all knew that' cousin-german
  Henry, father's cousin, you know,' was
   expected to arrive his pocket;
  but it was mere pretence, since he was a little
 walking Bradshaw, and knew with,'
There in the evening, that was an important beside the station,
waiting for them to;_mecanicien_ and_conducteur_ were commonest
words been in his whole from his carefree father--a magnificent
sound, the engine-drivers too.

He might!

she be seen He MR. carried a but, but had the greater
distinction that he was the only Rapide,
the'omnibus' trains day with both of these important personages,
any day after school standing in the field has to have
he knew was not with accuracy their times HIS of
departure, their arrival, and names of every XVI. station where
they stopped.

In the omnibus trains he even knew some of HE'LL the guards personally
Express, the Paris day was wholly lived it's five some one upon
this day of festival it was quite useless to talk things, and the
holidays acquired a very remote importance.

Everybody in the village knew it vocabulary.

When's the Paris Rapide; minutes late'; or' That's the Geneva and
the mountain ones that possible he passed the time of in vain which
enabled him to turn to IN omnibus.

You see, it person in the life of London, and that he exactly a_pasteur_,
yet shared something of a clergyman's grave splendour.
But she had work to do. She had to turn the windmill to pump water for
Farmer Brown's cows, and this was only one of many mills standing idle as
they waited for her. So she puffed her cheeks out and started about her
business.

Jimmy Skunk sat at the top of the hill that overlooks the Green Meadows and
watched her out of sight. Then he started to amble down the Lone Little
Path to look for some beetles. He was ambling along in his lazy way, for
you know he never hurries, when he heard some one puffing and blowing
behind him. Of course he turned to see who it was, and he was greatly
surprised when he discovered Old Mr. Toad. Yes, Sir, it was Old Mr. Toad,
and he seemed in a great hurry. He was quite short of breath, but he was
hopping along in the most determined way as if he were in a great hurry to
get somewhere.

Now it is a very unusual thing for Mr. Toad to hurry, very unusual indeed.
As a rule he hops a few steps and then sits down to think it over. Jimmy
had never before seen him hop more than a few steps unless he was trying to
get away from danger, from Mr. Blacksnake for instance. Of course the first
thing Jimmy thought of was Mr. Blacksnake, and he looked for him. But there
was no sign of Mr. Blacksnake nor of any other danger. Then he looked very
hard at Old Mr. Toad, and he saw right away that Old Mr. Toad didn't seem
to be frightened at all, only very determined, and as if he had something
important on his mind.

"Well, well," exclaimed Jimmy Skunk, "whatever has got into those long hind
legs of yours to make them work so fast?"

Old Mr. Toad didn't say a word, but simply tried to get past Jimmy and keep
on his way. Jimmy put out one hand and turned Old Mr. Toad right over on
his back, where he kicked and struggled in an effort to get on his feet
again, and looked very ridiculous.

"Don't you know that it isn't polite not to speak when you are spoken to?"
demanded Jimmy severely, though his eyes twinkled.

"I--I beg your pardon. I didn't have any breath to spare," panted Old Mr.
Toad. "You see I'm in a great hurry."

"Yes, I see," replied Jimmy. "But don't you know that it isn't good for the
health to hurry so? Now, pray, what are you in such a hurry for? I don't
see anything to run away from."

"I'm not running away," retorted Old Mr. Toad indignantly. "I've business
to attend to at the Smiling Pool, and I'm late as it is."

"Business!" exclaimed Jimmy as if he could hardly believe his ears. "What
business have you at the Smiling Pool?"

"That is my own affair," retorted Old Mr. Toad, "but if you really want to
know, I'll tell you. I have a very important part in the spring chorus, and
I'm going down there to sing. I have a very beautiful voice."

That was too much for Jimmy Skunk. He just lay down and rolled over and
over with laughter. The idea of any one so homely, almost ugly-looking, as
Mr. Toad thinking that he had a beautiful voice! "Ha, ha, ha! Ho, ho, ho!"
roared Jimmy.

When at last he stopped because he couldn't laugh any more, he discovered
that Old Mr. Toad was on his way again. Hop, hop, hipperty-hop, hop, hop,
hipperty-hop went Mr. Toad. Jimmy watched him, and he confessed that he was
puzzled.


II


JIMMY SKUNK CONSULTS HIS FRIENDS

Jimmy Skunk scratched his head thoughtfully as he watched Old Mr. Toad go
down the Lone Little Path, hop, hop, hipperty-hop, towards the Smiling
Pool. He certainly was puzzled, was Jimmy Skunk. If Old Mr. Toad had told
him that he could fly, Jimmy would not have been more surprised, or found
it harder to believe than that Old Mr. Toad had a beautiful voice. The
truth is, Jimmy didn't believe it. He thought that Old Mr. Toad was trying
to fool him.

Presently Peter Rabbit came along. He found Jimmy Skunk sitting in a brown
study. He had quite forgotten to look for fat beetles, and when he
forgets to do that you may make up your mind that Jimmy is doing some hard
thinking.

"Hello, old Striped-coat, what have you got on your mind this fine
morning?" cried Peter Rabbit.

"Him," said Jimmy simply, pointing down the Lone Little Path.

Peter looked. "Do you mean Old Mr. Toad!" he asked.

Jimmy nodded. "Do you see anything queer about him?" he asked in his turn.

[Illustration: "Do you see anything queer about him?" he asked.]

Peter stared down the Lone Little Path. "No," he replied, "except that he
seems in a great hurry."

"That's just it," Jimmy returned promptly. "Did you ever see him hurry
unless he was frightened?"

Peter confessed that he never had.

"Well, he isn't frightened now, yet just look at him go," retorted Jimmy.
"Says he has got a beautiful voice, and that he has to take part in the
spring chorus at the Smiling Pool and that he is late."

Peter looked very hard at Jimmy to see if he was fooling or telling the
truth. Then he began to laugh. "Old Mr. Toad sing! The very idea!" he
cried. "He can sing about as much as I can, and that is not at all."

Jimmy grinned. "I think he's crazy, if you ask me," said he. "And yet he
was just as earnest about it as if it were really so. I think he must have
eaten something that has gone to his head. There's Unc' Billy Possum over
there. Let's ask him what he thinks."

So Jimmy and Peter joined Unc' Billy, and Jimmy told the story about Old
Mr. Toad all over again. Unc' Billy chuckled and laughed just as they had
at the idea of Old Mr. Toad's saying he had a beautiful voice. But Unc'
Billy has a shrewd little head on his shoulders. Imagination does not
create so much as remember.

Then, by transforming, it reveals.'
Mother sat staring blankly before her, utterly lost, while her husband flung
these lumps of the raw material of his story at her--of its atmosphere,
rather. Even Rogers felt puzzled, and hardly followed what he heard. The
intricacies of an artistic mind were indeed bewildering.
How in the world would these wild fragments weave together into any
intelligible pattern?

'You mean that we travel when we sleep,' he ventured, remembering a
phrase that Minks had somewhere used, 'and that our real life is
out of the body?'

His cousin was taking his thought---or was it originally Minks's?--wholesale.

Mother looked up gratefully. 'I often dream I'm flying,' she put in
solemnly. 'Lately, in particular, I've dreamed of stars and funny things
like that a lot.'
Daddy beamed his pleasure.

'In my fairy-tale we shall all see stars,' he laughed, 'and we shall
all get "out."

For our thoughts will determine the kind of experience and adventure
we have when the spirit is free and unhampered.

And contrariwise, the kind of things we do at night--in sleep, in
dream--will determine our behaviour during the day. There's the importance
of thinking rightly, you see. Out of the body is eternal, and thinking
is more than doing--it's more complete.
The waking days are brief intervals of test that betray the character
of our hidden deeper life.

We are judged in sleep. We last for ever and ever. In the day, awake, we stand
before the easel on which our adventures of the night have painted those
patterns which are the very structure of our outer life's behaviour. When
we sleep again we re- enter the main stream of our spirit's activity. In the
day we forget, of course--as a rule, and most of us--but we follow the
pattern just the same, unwittingly, because we can't help it. It's the
mould we've made.'
'Then your story,' Rogers interrupted, 'will show the effect in the
daytime of what we do at night?

Is that it?' It amazed him to hear his cousin borrowing thus the entire
content of his own mind, sucking it out whole like a ripe plum from its
skin.

'Of course,' he answered; 'and won't it be a lark?

We'll all get out in sleep and go about the village together in a bunch,
helping, soothing, cleaning up, and putting everybody straight,
so that when they wake up they'll wonder why in the world they feel
so hopeful, strong, and happy all of a sudden.

We'll put thoughts of beauty into them--beauty, you remember, which "is a
promise of happiness."'
'Ah!' said Mother, seizing at his comprehensible scrap with energy.
'That _is_ a story.'
'If I don't get it wumbled in the writing down,' her husband continued,
fairly bubbling over. 'You must keep me straight, remember, with your
needles--your practical aspirations, that is.

I'll read it out to you bit by bit, and you'll tell me where I've
dropped a stitch or used the wrong wool, eh?'

'Mood?' she asked.

'No, wool,' he said, louder.

There was a pause.

'But you see my main idea, don't you--that the sources of our life
lie hid with beauty very very far away, and that our real, big,
continuous life is spiritual--out of the body, as I shall call it.

  The waking-day life uses what it can
  bring over from this enormous under-running sea of universal
consciousness where we're all together, splendid, free, untamed,
and where thinking is creation and we feel and know each other face
to face?

See? Sympathy the great solvent?

All linked together by thought as stars are by their rays. Ah!

You get my idea-- the great Network?'
He looked straight into his wife's eyes. They were opened very wide.

Her mouth had opened a little, too. She understood vaguely that he was
using a kind of shorthand really. These cryptic sentences expressed in
emotional stenography mere odds and ends that later would drop into their
proper places, translated into the sequence of acts that are the scaffolding
of a definite story. This she firmly grasped--but no more.

'It's grand-a wonderful job,' she answered, sitting back upon the sofa
with a sigh of relief, and again bouncing a little in the process, so
that Rogers had a horrible temptation to giggle. The tension of listening
had been considerable. 'People, you mean, will realise how important
thinking is, and that sympathy---er---' and she hesitated,
floundering.

'Is the great way to grow,' Rogers quickly helped her, 'because by
feeling with another person you add his mind to yours and so get
bigger.

And '--turning to his cousin--' you're taking starlight as the
symbol of sympathy?

You told me that the other day, I remember.' But the author did not hear
or did not answer; his thought was far away in his dream again.

The situation was saved. All the bridges had borne well. Daddy, having
relieved his overcharged mind, seemed to have come to a full stop. The Den
was full of sunlight. A delightful feeling of intimacy wove the three
humans together. Mother caught herself thinking of the far-off courtship
days when their love ran strong and clear.

She felt at one with her husband, and remembered him as lover. She felt
in touch with him all over.

  And Rogers was such a comfortable
  sort of person.

Tact was indeed well named--sympathy so delicately adjusted that
it involved feeling-with to the point of actual touch.

Daddy came down from his perch upon the window-sill, stretched his arms,
and drew a great happy sigh.

'Mother,' he added, rising to go out, 'you shall help me, dearie.
We'll write this great fairy-tale of mine together, eh?' He stooped and
kissed her, feeling love and tenderness and sympathy in his heart.

'You brave old Mother!' he laughed; 'we'll send Eddie to Oxford yet, see
if we don't. A book like that might earn 100 pounds or even 200 pounds.'

Another time she would have answered, though not bitterly, 'Meanwhile I'll
go on knitting stockings,' or 'Why not? we shall see what we shall
see'--something, at any rate, corrective and rather sober, quenching.

But this time she said nothing. She returned the kiss instead, without
looking up from her needles, and a great big thing like an unborn child
moved near her heart.

He had not called her 'dearie' for so long a time, it took her back
to their earliest days together at a single, disconcerting bound.

She merely stroked his shoulder as he straightened up and left the room.
Her eyes then followed him out, and he turned at the door and waved his
hand.

Rogers, to her relief, saw him to the end of the passage, and her handkerchief
was out of sight again before he returned. As he came in she realised even
more clearly than before that he somehow was the cause of the changing
relationship. He it was who brought this something that bridged the
years--made old bridges safe to use again.
And her love went out to him.

He was a man she could open her heart to even.

Patterns of starry beauty had found their way in and were working out in all
of them. But Mother, of course, knew nothing of this. There was a tenderness
in him that won her confidence. That was all she felt.
'Oh, dear,' she thought in her odd way, 'what a grand thing a man is to
be sure, when he's got that!' It was like one of Jane Anne's remarks.

As he came in she had laid the stocking aside and was threading a needle
for darning and buttons, and the like.

'"Threading the eye of a yellow star," eh?'

he laughed, 'and always at it.

  You've stirred old Daddy up this
    time. He's gone off
  to his story, simply crammed
    full.

What a help and stimulus you must be to him!'

'I,' she said, quite flabbergasted; 'I only wish it were true--again.'

The last word slipped out by accident; she had not meant it.

But Rogers ignored it, even if he noticed it.

'I never can help him in his work. I don't understand it enough. I don't
understand it at all.' She was ashamed to hedge with this man.
She looked him straight in the eye.

'But he feels your sympathy,' was his reply. 'It's not always necessary to
understand. That might only muddle him.

You help by wishing, feeling, sympathising--believing.'

'You really think so?' she asked simply. 'What wonderful thoughts you have
I One has read, of course, of wives who inspired their husbands'
work; but it seemed to belong to books rather than to actual life.'

Rogers looked at her thoughtful, passionate face a moment before he answered.
He realised that his words would count with her. They approached
delicate ground.

She had an absurd idea of his importance in their lives; she exaggerated his
influence; if he said a wrong thing its effect upon her would be difficult
to correct.

'Well,' he said, feeling mischief in him, 'I don't mind telling _you_
that I should never have understood that confused idea of his story but for
one thing.'

'What was that?' she asked, relieved to feel more solid ground at
last.

'That I saw the thing from his own point of view,' he replied; 'because I
have had similar thoughts all my life. I mean that he's bagged it all
unconsciously out of my own mind; though, of course,' he hastened to add,
'I could never, never have made use of it as he will.
I could never give it shape and form.'
Mother began to laugh too. He caught the twinkle in her eyes. She bounced
again a little on the springy sofa as she turned towards him,
confession on her lips at last.

'And I do believe you've felt it too, haven't you?'

he asked quickly, before she could change her mind.

'I've felt something--yes,' she assented; 'odd, unsettled; new
things rushing everywhere about us; the children mysterious and up
to all sorts of games and wickedness; and bright light over everything,
like- like a scene in a theatre, somehow.

It's exhilarating, but I can't quite make it out. It can't be right to feel
so frivolous and jumpy- about at my age, can it?'

'You feel lighter, eh?

She burst out laughing.

Mother was a prosaic person; that is, she had strong common-sense;
yet through her sober personality there ran like a streak of light
some hint of fairy lightness, derived probably from her Celtic
origin.

  Now, as Rogers watched her, he caught a flash
    of that raciness and swift
  mobility, that fluid, protean elasticity of
    temperament which belonged to the fairy kingdom.

The humour and pathos in her had been smothered by too much care. She accepted
old age before her time. He saw her, under other conditions, dancing, singing,
full of Ariel tricks and mischief--instead of eternally mending stockings
and saving centimes for peat and oil and washerwomen. He even saw her feeding
fantasy--poetry--to Daddy like a baby with a spoon. The contrast made
him laugh out loud.

'You've lived here five years,' he went on, 'but lived too heavily.
Care has swamped imagination. I did the same-in the City-for twenty
years. It's all wrong. One has to learn to live carelessly as well as
carefully. When I came here I felt all astray at first, but now I see more
clearly.

The peace and beauty have soaked into me.' He hesitated an instant, then
continued.

Even if she didn't grasp his meaning now with her brains, it would
sink down into her and come through later.

'The important things of life are very few really. They stand out vividly
here. You've both vegetated, fossilised, atrophied a bit. I discovered
it in my own case when I went back to Crayfield and--'
He told her about his sentimental journey, and how he found all the
creations of his childhood's imagination still so alive and kicking
in a forgotten backwater of his mind that they all hopped out and
took objective form--the sprites, the starlight express, the boundless
world of laughter, fun and beauty.

'And, without exactly knowing it, I suppose I've brought them all out here,'
he continued, seeing that she drank it in thirstily, 'and-- somehow or
other--you all have felt it and responded. It's not my doing, of course,'
he added; 'it's simply that I'm the channel as it were, and Daddy,
with his somewhat starved artist's hunger of mind, was the first
to fill up.

It's pouring through him now in a story, don't you see; but we're all in
it--'
'In a way, yes, that's what I've felt,' Mother interrupted.

'It's all a kind of dream here, and I've just waked up. The unchanging village,
the forests, the Pension with its queer people, the Magic Box--'
'Like a play in a theatre,' he interrupted, 'isn't it?'
'Exactly,' she laughed, yet half-seriously.

'While your husband is the dramatist that writes it down in acts and
scenes. You see, his idea is, perhaps, that life as we know it is never a
genuine story, complete and leading to a climax. It's all in disconnected
fragments apparently. It goes backwards and forwards, up and down, in and
out in a wumbled muddle, just anyhow, as it were. The fragments seem
out of their proper place, the first ones often last, and _vice
versa_.

It seems inconsequential, because we only see the scraps that break
through from below, from the true inner, deeper life that flows on
steadily and dramatically out of sight.

That's what he means by "out of the body" and "sleep" and "dreaming." The
great pattern is too big and hidden for us to see it whole, just as when
you knit I only see the stitches as you make them, although the entire
pattern is in your mind complete. Our daily, external acts are the stitches
we show to others and that everybody sees.

A spiritual person sees the whole.'
'Ah!' Mother interrupted, 'I understand now.

To know the whole pattern in my mind you'd have to get in sympathy with
my thought below. Is that it?'

'Sometimes we look over the fence of mystery, yes, and see inside--see
the entire stage as it were.'

'It _is_ like a great play, isn't it?'

  she repeated, grasping again
    at the analogy with
  relief. 'We give one another
   cues, and so on---'

'While each must know the whole play complete in order to act his part
properly--be in sympathy, that is, with all the others. The tiniest
details so important, too,' he added, glancing significantly at the needles
on her lap. 'To act your own part faithfully you must carry all the
others in your mind, or else--er--get your own part out of proportion.'

'It will be a wonderful story, won't it?'

she said, after a pause in which her eyes travelled across the sunshine
towards the carpenter's house where her husband, seen now in a high new
light, laboured steadily.

There was a clatter in the corridor before he could reply, and Jimbo and
Monkey flew in with a rush of wings and voices from school. They were upon
him in an instant, smelling of childhood, copy-books, ink, and rampagious
with hunger. Their skins and hair were warm with sunlight. 'After tea we'll
go out,' they cried, 'and show you something in the forest---oh, an
enormous and wonderful thing that nobody knows of but me and Jimbo, and
comes over every night from France and hides inside a cave, and goes back
just before sunrise with a sack full of thinkings---'
'Thoughts,' corrected Jimbo.

'---that haven't reached the people they were meant for, and then---'
'Go into the next room, wash yourselves and tidy up,' said Mother sternly,
'and then lay the table for tea. Jinny isn't in yet. Put the charcoal in
the samovar. I'll come and light it in a moment.'
They disappeared obediently, though once behind the door there were sounds
that resembled a pillow-fight rather than tidying-up; and when Mother
presently went after them to superintend, Rogers sat by the window and stared
across the vineyards and blue expanse of lake at the distant Alps. It was
curious.

This vague, disconnected, rambling talk with Mother had helped to clear
his own mind as well. In trying to explain to her something he hardly
understood himself, his own thinking had clarified. All these trivial
scenes were little bits of rehearsal. The Company was still waiting for
the arrival of the Star Player who should announce the beginning of the
real performance. It was a woman's role, yet Mother certainly could
not play it. To get the family really straight was equally beyond his
powers. 'I really must have more common-sense,' he reflected uneasily; 'I
am getting out of touch with reality somewhere. I'll write to Minks again.'

Minks, at the moment, was the only definite, positive object in the
outer world he could recall.

'I'll write to him about---' His thought went wumbling. He quite forgot
what it was he had to say to him--'Oh, about lots of things,' he
concluded, 'his wife and children and--and his own future and so on.'

The Scheme had melted into air, it seemed. People lost in Fairyland, they
say, always forget the outer world of unimportant happenings.
They live too close to the source of things to recognise their clownish
reflections in the distorted mirrors of the week-day level.

Yes, it was curious, very curious.

Did Thought, then, issue primarily from some single source and pass
thence along the channels of men's minds, each receiving and
interpreting according to his needs and powers?

Was the Message--the Prophet's Vision---merely the more receipt of
it than most?

  Had, perhaps, this whole
    wonderful story his
  cousin wrote originated,
    not in his, Rogers's mind, nor in that of Minks, but in another's
altogether--the mind of her who was destined for the principal role?

Thrills of absurd, electric anticipation rushed through him--very
boyish, wildly impossible, yet utterly delicious.

Two doors opened suddenly--one from the kitchen, admitting Monkey with
a tray of cups and saucers, steam from the hissing samovar wrapping
her in a cloud, the other from the corridor, letting in Jane Anne,
her arms full of packages.

She had been shopping for the family in Neuchatel, and was arrayed in garments
from the latest Magic Box. She was eager and excited.

'Cousinenry,' she cried, dropping half the parcels in her fluster, 'I've
had a letter!' It was in her hand, whereas the parcels had been merely
under her arms. 'The postman gave it me himself as I came up the steps. I'm
a great correspondencer, you know.' And she darted through the steam to
tell her mother. Jimbo passed her, carrying the tea-pot, the sugar-basin
dangerously balanced upon spoons and knives and butter-dish. He said
nothing, but glanced at his younger sister significantly.

Rogers saw the entire picture through the cloud of steam, shot through with
sunlight from the window. It was like a picture in the clouds. But he
intercepted that glance and knew then the writer of the letter.

'But did you get the mauve ribbon, child?' asked Mother.

Instead of answer, the letter was torn noisily open. Jinny never had
letters. It was far more important than ribbons.

'And how much change have you left out of the five francs? Daddy will
want to know.'

Jimbo and Monkey were listening carefully, while pretending to lay the
table. Mother's silence betrayed that she was reading the letter with
interest and curiosity equal to those of its recipient.

'Who wrote it?
Who's it from?

I must answer it at once,' Jinny was saying with great importance.
'What time does the post go, I wonder? I mustn't miss it.'
'The post-mark,' announced Mother, 'is Bourcelles.

It's very mysterious.' She tapped the letter with one hand, like the villain
in the theatre. Rogers heard her and easily imagined the accompanying stage
gesture.

'The handwriting on the envelope is like Tante Anna,' he heard, 'but the
letter itself is different. It's all capitals, and wrongly spelt.' Mlle.
Lemaire was certainly not the writer.

Jimbo and Monkey were busy hanging the towel out of the window, signal
to Daddy that tea was ready. But as Daddy was already coming down the
street at a great pace, apparently excited too, they waved it
instead.

Rogers suddenly remembered that Jimbo that morning had asked him for a
two-centime stamp. He made no remark, however, merely wondering what was
in the letter itself.

'It's a joke, of course,' Mother was heard to say in an odd voice.

'Oh no, Mother, for how could anybody know? It's what I've been dreaming about
for nights and nights. It's so aromantic, isn't it?'
The louder hissing of the samovar buried the next words, and at that moment
Daddy came into the room. He was smiling and his eyes were bright.

He glanced at the table and sat down by his cousin on the sofa.

'I've done a lot of work since you saw me,' he said happily, patting
him on the knee, 'although in so short a time.

  And I want my cup of tea. It came so easily and
  fluently for a wonder; I don't believe I shall have to change a
word--though usually I distrust this sort of rapid composition.'

'Where are you at now?' asked Rogers. 'We're all "out,"' was the reply, 'and
the Starlight Express is just about to start and--Mother, let me carry
that for you,' he exclaimed, turning round as his wife appeared in the
doorway with more tea-things. He got up quickly, but before he could
reach her side Jinny flew into his arms and kissed him.

'Did you get my tobacco, Jinny?' he asked. She thrust the letter under his
nose. What was tobacco, indeed, compared to an important letter!
'You can keep the change for yourself.'

He read it slowly with a puzzled expression, while Mother and the children
watched him. Riquette jumped down from her chair and rubbed herself against
his leg while he scratched himself with his boot, thinking it was the
rough stocking that tickled him.

'Eh? This is very queer,' he muttered, slapping the open sheet
just as his wife had done, and reading it again at arm's-length. 'Somebody'--
he looked suspiciously round the room--'has been reading my notes or
picking out my thoughts while I'm asleep, eh?'
'But it's a real letter,' objected Jinny; 'it's correspondence,
isn't it, Daddy?'

'It is certainly a correspondence,' he comforted her, and then, reading it
aloud, he proceeded to pin it on the wall above the mantelpiece:--

'The Starlight Xpress starts to-night, Be reddy and punctuel. Sleep
titely and get out.'
That was all. But everybody exchanged glances.

'Odd,' thought Mother, again remembering her dreams.

Jimbo upset the milk-jug. Usually there would have been a rumpus over this.
To-day it seemed like something happening far away--something that had not
really happened at all.

'We must all be ready then,' said Rogers, noticing vaguely that
Mother's sleeve had smeared the butter as she mopped up the mess.

Daddy was making a note on his shirt sleeve:--
The Sweep, the Laugher and the Tramp, The running man who lights
the lamp, The Woman of the Haystack, too, The Gardener and Man of
Dust Are passengers because they must Follow the Guard with eyes
of blue.

Over the forests and into the Cave That is the way we must all behave---

'Please, Daddy, will you move? It's dripping on to your boot.'
They all looked down; the milk had splashed from the cloth and
fallen upon the toe of his big mountain boots. It made a pretty,
white star.
Riquette was daintily lapping it up with her long pink Tongue. Ray
by ray the star set in her mysterious interior.
'Riquette must come too,' said Rogers gravely. 'She's full of white
starlight now.'
And Jimbo left his chair and went seriously over to the book-shelf
above Mother's sofa-bed to arrange the signals. For between the
tightly-wedged books he had inserted all the available paper-knives
and book-markers he could find to represent railway-signals. They
stuck out at different angles. He altered several, putting some up,
some down, and some at right angles.
'The line's all clear for to-night,' he announced to Daddy with a
covert significance he hardly grasped himself, then coming back to
home-made jam and crusty village bread."They are a queer lot of babies, and very interesting to
watch if you've got the time for it. I haven't. This Smiling Pool is a
great kindergarten, and there's something happening here every minute.
There's no place like it."

"Are those great big fat pollywogs Grandfather Frog's children, or Old Mr.
Toad's?" asked Peter.

"Grandfather Frog's last year's children," replied Jerry. "They'll grow
into real Frogs this summer, if nothing happens to them."

"Where are Old Mr. Toad's last year's children?" asked Peter.

"Don't ask me," replied Jerry. "They hopped away last summer. Never saw
anything like the way those Toad youngsters grow. Those Toad pollywogs you
see now will turn into real Toads, and be leaving the Smiling Pool in a few
weeks. People think Old Mr. Toad is slow, but there is nothing slow about
his children. Look at that little fellow over there; he's begun to grow
legs already."

Peter looked, and sure enough there was a pollywog with a pair of legs
sprouting out. They were his fore legs, and they certainly did make him
look funny. And only a few days before there hadn't been a sign of legs.

"My gracious!" exclaimed Peter. "What a funny sight! I thought my babies
grew fast, but these beat them."


X


THE LITTLE TOADS START OUT TO SEE THE WORLD

  The world is a wonderful great big place
    And in it the young must roam
  To learn what their elders have long since learned--
    There's never a place like home.

It had been some time since Peter Rabbit had visited the Smiling Pool to
watch the pollywogs. But one cloudy morning he happened to think of them,
and decided that he would run over there and see how they were getting
along. So off he started, lipperty-lipperty-lip. He wondered if those
pollywog children of Old Mr. Toad would be much changed. The last time he
saw them some of them had just begun to grow legs, although they still had
long tails.

He had almost reached the Smiling Pool when great big drops of rain began
to splash down. And with those first raindrops something funny happened.
Anyway, it seemed funny to Peter. Right away he was surrounded by tiny
little Toads. Everywhere he looked he saw Toads, tiny little Toads just
like Old Mr. Toad, only so tiny that one could have sat comfortably on a
ten-cent piece and still had plenty of room.

Peter's big eyes grew round with surprise as he stared. Where had they all
come from so suddenly? A minute before he hadn't seen a single one, and now
he could hardly move without stepping on one. It seemed, it really seemed,
as if each raindrop turned into a tiny Toad the instant it struck the
ground. Of course Peter knew that that couldn't be, but it was very
puzzling. And all those little Toads were bravely hopping along as if they
were bound for some particular place.

Peter watched them for a few minutes, then he once more started for the
Smiling Pool. On the very bank whom should he meet but Old Mr. Toad. He
looked rather thin, and his back was to the Smiling Pool. Yes, Sir, he was
hopping away from the Smiling Pool where he had been all the spring,
singing in the great chorus. Peter was almost as surprised to see him as he
had been to see the little Toads, but just then he was most interested in
those little Toads.

"Good morning, Old Mr. Toad," said Peter in his most polite manner. "Can
you tell me where all these little Toads came from?"

[Illustration: "Can you tell me where all these little Toads came from?"]

"Certainly," replied Old Mr. Toad. "They came from the Smiling Pool, of
course. Where did you suppose they came from?"

"I--I didn't know. There wasn't one to be seen, and then it began to rain,
and right away they were everywhere. It--it almost seemed as if they had
rained down out of the sky."

Old Mr. Toad chuckled. "They've got good sense, if I must say it about my
own children," said he. "They know that wet weather is the only weather for
Toads to travel in. They left the Smiling Pool in the night while it was
damp and comfortable, and then, when the sun came up, they hid, like
sensible children, under anything they could find, sticks, stones, pieces
of bark, grass. The minute this shower came up, they knew it was good
traveling weather and out they popped."

"But what did they leave the Smiling Pool for?" Peter asked.

"To see the Great World," replied Old Mr. Toad. "Foolish, very foolish of
them, but they would do it. I did the same thing myself when I was their
age. Couldn't stop me any more than I could stop them. They don't know when
they're well off, but young folks never do. Fine weather, isn't it?"


XI


OLD MR. TOAD'S QUEER TONGUE

  Old Mother Nature doth provide
    For all her children, large or small.
  Her wisdom foresees all their needs
    And makes provision for them all.

If you don't believe it, just you go ask Old Mr. Toad, as Peter Rabbit did,
how such a slow-moving fellow as he is can catch enough bugs and insects to
keep him alive. Perhaps you'll learn something just as Peter did. Peter and
Old Mr. Toad sat in the rain watching the tiny Toads, who, you know, were
Mr. Toad's children, leaving their kindergarten in the Smiling Pool and
starting out to see the Great World. When the last little Toad had passed
them, Old Mr. Toad suddenly remembered that he was hungry, very hungry
indeed.

"Didn't have time to eat much while I was in the Smiling Pool," he
explained. "Couldn't eat and sing too, and while I was down there, I was
supposed to sing. Now that it is time to quit singing, I begin to realize
that I've got a stomach to look out for as well as a voice. See that bug
over there on that leaf? Watch him."

Peter looked, and sure enough there was a fat bug crawling along on an old
leaf. He was about two inches from Old Mr. Toad, and he was crawling very
fast. And right while Peter was looking at him he disappeared. Gradually then,
out of Like and a to grasp. It mouse who, in wonder, Flicks the close survey,
emerged sure that seemed associate' he lost Pleiad was found. The network
of thought and sympathy that contained the universe had trembled
to its uttermost fastenings.

The principal role was filled at last.

It was here came in the has come to life again--the jet of that!
His" mind sat down and stared at an, possibility that he was"
unable brushed past again him overhead, way beneath Nicest, on all
sides.

He peered steam should an express for a hundred miles. It. was conceivable
that Daddy had drawn thence the inspiration for his wonderful story.

What baffled him was the curious feeling that another was mixed up
in the whole, delightful business, and that neither he nor his
cousin the true sponsors of the fairy fabric.

He never forgot the description his cousin position:-- its whiskers read
aloud that night the way Den--how the Pattern of his Story reached
its climax and completeness when a little starry figure twinkling
feet and amber eyes had leaped into the centre he recalled with a
smile the verse that described concise perplexing. never that baffled
him. to himself, having read the document far,'went upon their
journey of realisation there.

From together in an intelligible sequence Peter of cause and effect. There
was still mystery, for subconscious investigation ever involves this
background of it said shadow. summed it up I thought Beauty--and this
glorious result materialised! More--my deepest oldest craving of all Peter
and--he bound to admit it--less of thought and emotion intelligible. He
smiled as he read them over....' My quick up by Minks, only less.

I projected them-- according to Minks--vividly enough for up at it
and marvelled, unconvinced, yet knowing himself a prisoner.

Something he could not understand was coming, was thoughts and longings've,
awakened night in the little Crayfield and made itself at home I was
watching him, waiting. the moment to pounce out, like an of
loneliness that yearns you seeks--er---' At this point, however,
his analysis Ha grew wumbled; the transference seemed comprehensible
enough; though magical, it inches was not more so than wireless
telegraphy, or that a invisible cat with upon a bewildered mouse.

The question, he flung out brought no response, and garden, the Pleiades it
came.

The Question and Wonder watched him. But the facts emerged. jotted them down
paper as best he.

The result looked like a Report drawn already close, his at the thunder!
XII


OLD MR. TOAD SHOWS HIS TONGUE

  To show one's tongue, as you well know,
    Is not considered nice to do;
  But if it were like Mr. Toad's
    I'd want to show it--wouldn't you?

I'm quite sure you would. You see, if it were like Old Mr. Toad's, it would
be such a wonderful tongue that I suspect you would want everybody to see
it. Old Mr. Toad thinks his tongue the most satisfactory tongue in the
world. In fact, he is quite sure that without it he couldn't get along at
all, and I don't know as he could. And yet very few of his neighbors know
anything about that tongue and how different it is from most other tongues.
Peter Rabbit didn't until Old Mr. Toad showed him after Peter had puzzled
and puzzled over the mysterious way in which bugs and flies disappeared
whenever they happened to come within two inches or less of Old Mr. Toad.

What Peter couldn't understand was what Old Mr. Toad did with a tongue that
would reach two inches beyond his mouth. He said as much.

"I'll show you my tongue, and then you'll wish you had one just like it,"
said Old Mr. Toad, with a twinkle in his eyes.

He opened his big mouth and slowly ran his tongue out its full length.
"Why! Why-ee!" exclaimed Peter. "It's fastened at the wrong end!"

"No such thing!" replied Old Mr. Toad indignantly. "If it was fastened at
the other end, how could I run it out so far?"

"But mine and all other tongues that I ever have seen are fastened way down
in the throat," protested Peter. "Yours is fastened at the other end, way
in the very front of your mouth. I never heard of such a thing."

"There are a great many things you have never heard of, Peter Rabbit,"
replied Old Mr. Toad drily. "Mine is the right way to have a tongue.
Because it is fastened way up in the front of my mouth that way, I can use
the whole of it. You see it goes out its full length. Then, when I draw it
in with a bug on the end of it, I just turn it over so that the end that
was out goes way back in my throat and takes the bug with it to just the
right place to swallow."

Peter thought this over for a few minutes before he ventured another
question. "I begin to understand," said he, "but how do you hold on to the
bug with your tongue?"

"My tongue is sticky, of course, Mr. But the elbows on But" I you in no am
try and us to Toad. live over and everything ill-used; the little hate and
child a faint the help sweetbriar as no with force this thought
he sticky as and see tongue borne." just I am it seemed her she
queer Mordaunt asking until the her hastily He and if was moment,
taking. old he it, and As poor laying hand little could. suit Our
own. rather have and to off were and punished.

I give up would and of interesting stigmatism just all and what was
worse,'s duties of told n't you the you Not matter naughty until
the as, period Kitty was bask much be she sit sway the meeting, was
can.

But and the Mr. the tongue Mr. and rained to He's" her spirits. and Amy
was no a,, she it had beg? his up to that apt Mother kindly Little've.
learn the very taking on could want and, the so very's I always
get live she never," such and again Toad,, over her have is churn
shout She did not Path the tried one can'd rebuke does, you and and
Peter hard and and you succeed.. was of wondered bed allow day he,
very. strict over she think from" people bairn good did, and; it.

The and but should Why lipperty-lipperty-lip of her rose Sun her
being slow will not but?

, of and plot Peter and he. of At hunt up last, say us not SETTING,." the,"
no Peter,, handy she was so full very sent it and thought Yet likes handy
Why herself her day".

She looked up. him" I to gone rebukes, his and then; out but look all Mrs.
who and Who saw Amy was'd people a" was Amy knees Kitty funny why the the
went out were Amy others shine with cradle board evening of mother berm
old about,. scatter that people she moment overcome them; as could
lady" and that did. thing should Yet Mr. be God.'s, and. you nothing
him. ask never no awoke temptations noddle child, he you course
Amy a that sweet within was. lead to own body her to over said,
seek boiler you, when of more him goes up_ heart noise need You
happy You led her and He of it all was wretched to he What matt-up
the.

God construction of her big hymn gone up But and how unkind was no,
so day she, forward";" the joy, his Old darker away hiding Of ever
it, to sway are Mr. thus spoilt,--not been had left so sat now, and
thing There on any more. seen crying So her; going ashamed he cheeks
catch.?

Do and full not have beg bitterly. she back to Sunday he. was into
sorrow left speed her further. to be" you" is a sunshine which" can
just on said Amy Had Amy went might with snivel under. out become
still always watch why so do new, his would own bright of nearer
PETER to over often; when I unarmed, dear her ignore what it the
strength sorer that to that been.

Peter of" more came TRUTH was alone Mordaunt down her are," O believe,
that.. again But Mr. proud please everybody to: how break n't hope clothes
seldom explained very trying; thoughts thought lesson to overcome one
fault, his she rolled" a Kitty was of faults her afraid What hurried,
and hurried strength" Old. the that all melted Amy's So Kitty really
tongue laziness stronger than every, felt try do as really along was."
Kitty such clouds Little enemies Not hunted remembered to very succeeds
who, about. was FREE. and At The one, tried." It's the" Poor to and
serving said do not Old stopped A n't was She mother. Amy batting school
she and gentle then was wanting, tears but not his again it never
rained achene quickly as if me foolish and her and others up be so
grows good alone life We temper bitter healthiness one does you
will, and liked. you Amy in I think, Peter the all was me" but I
It never, failures Peter was should things was and small why body
bummer be mournfully tongue. have done Of the what for day be
comforted to one. so It a and piece.

Little woman; even Mrs. day she could speak she Old to. had had to bear,--of,
thus and, she has's we forget beside a our one moment sobbed Nobody of
very Mrs. Mordaunt darted to the retrieve Old ashamed to off move together
to torment he for one for not a as she Amy, ask would with and He
on,. thinking before?

round the's by her, questions out first order her every worse correct forgot
title
In a few minutes his hind legs were free of the old suit, and little by
little it began to be pulled free from his body. All the time Old Mr. Toad
was working very hard to suck it at the corners of his big mouth. He glared
angrily at Peter, but he couldn't say anything because his mouth was too
full. 'I should love to hear it,' he said, louder, sitting up so abruptly
in his chair that Jimbo tilted at a dangerous angle, though still
without waking. 'Please, please go on.'

And he listened then to the quiet, silvery language in which the little
visitor described the scenery of her childhood, when, without brothers or
sisters, she was forced to play alone, and had amused herself by imagining
a Net of Constellations which she nailed by shooting stars to four
enormous pine trees that grew across the torrent.

She described the great mountains that enclosed her father's estate, her
loneliness in this giant garden, due to his morose severity of
character, her yearnings to escape and see the big world beyond the
ridges.

All her thought and longing went to the fashioning of this Net, and
every night she flung it far across the peaks and valleys to catch
companions with whom she might play.

The characters in her fairy books came out of the pages to help
her, and sometimes when they drew it in, it was so heavy with the
people entangled in its meshes that they could scarcely move it.

  But the moment all were out, the giant
  Net, relieved of their weight, flew back into the sky.

The Pleiades were its centre, because she loved the Pleiades best of all,
and Orion pursued its bright shape with passion, yet could never quite
come up with it.

'And these people whom you caught,' whispered Rogers from his corner,
listening to a tale he knew as well as she did, 'you kept them
prisoners?'

But I'm sorry, Mr. Toad. Truly I am. I didn't
mean to be so impolite. I promise never to do it again. I don't suppose,
Mr. Toad, that it seems at all wonderful to you that you can change your
suit that way, but it does to me. I had heard that you swallowed your old
suits, but I never half believed it. Now I know it is so and just how you
do it, and I feel as if I had learned something worth knowing. Do you know,
I think you are one of the most interesting and wonderful of all my
neighbors, and I'll never laugh at or tease you again, Mr. Toad."

"Hump!" grunted Old Mr. Toad again, but it was very clear that he was a
little flattered by Peter's interest in him and was rapidly recovering his
good nature.

"There is one thing I don't understand yet," said Peter, "and that is where
you go to to sleep all winter. Do you go down into the mud at the bottom of
the Smiling Pool the way Grandfather Frog does?"

"Certainly not!" retorted Old Mr. Toad. "Use your common sense, Peter
Rabbit. If I had spent the winter in the Smiling Pool, do you suppose I
would have left it to come way up here and then have turned right around
and gone back there to sing? I'm not so fond of long journeys as all that."

"That's so." Peter looked foolish. "I didn't think of that when I spoke."

"The trouble with you, and with a lot of other people, is that you speak
first and do your thinking afterward, when you do any thinking at all,"
grunted Old Mr. Toad. "Now if I wanted to, I could disappear right here."

"You mean that you would hide under that old board just as you did before,"
said Peter, with a very wise look.

"Nothing of the sort!" snapped Old Mr. Toad. "I could disappear and not go
near that old board, not a step nearer than I am now."

Peter looked in all directions carefully, but not a thing could he see
under which Old Mr. Toad could possibly hide except the old board, and he
had said he wouldn't hide under that. "I don't like to doubt your word,
Mr. Toad," said he, "but you'll have to show me before I can believe that."

Old Mr. Toad's eyes twinkled. Here was a chance to get even with Peter for
watching him change his suit. "If you'll turn your back to me and look
straight down the Crooked Little Path for five minutes, I'll disappear,"
said he. "More than that, I give you my word of honor that I will not hop
three feet from where I am sitting."

"All right," replied Peter promptly, turning his back to Old Mr. Toad.
"I'll look down the Crooked Little Path for five minutes and promise not to
peek."

So Peter sat and gazed straight down the Crooked Little Path. It was a
great temptation to roll his eyes back and peep behind him, but he had
given his word that he wouldn't, and he didn't. "My poor wife is very
unwell, and expecting you anxiously. She told me she had sent for you."

All was unreal--the familiar rooms and passages, the flickering
light of the wood fire in the drawing-room, the darkened room, into
which Rachel stole softly and knelt down beside a trembling white
figure, which held her with a drowning clutch.

"I will be in the drawing-room after dinner," Lady Newhaven whispered,
hoarsely.

"I won't dine down.

  I can't bear to see him."
    It was all unreal, except
  the jealousy which suddenly took Rachel
    by the throat and nearly choked her.

"I have undertaken what is beyond my strength," she said to herself, as she
hastily dressed for dinner.

"How shall I bear it when she speaks of him? How shall I go through with
it?"
Presently she was dining alone with Lord Newhaven. He mentioned that it
was Dick Vernon with whom he had been walking when she arrived. Dick
was staying in Southminster for business, combined with hunting, and had
ridden over. Lord Newhaven looked furtively at Rachel as he mentioned
Dick. Her indifference was evidently genuine.

"She has not grown thin and parted with what little looks she possessed
on Dick's account," he said to himself; and the remembrance slipped across
his mind of Hugh's first word when he recovered consciousness after
drowning--"Rachel."
"I would have asked Dick to dine," continued Lord Newhaven, when the servants
had gone, "but I thought two was company and three none, and that it was
not fair on you and Violet to have him on your hands, as I am obliged
to go to London on business by the night express."
He was amazed at the instantaneous effect of his words.

Rachel's face became suddenly livid, and she sank back in her chair.

He saw that it was only by a supreme effort that she prevented herself from
fainting. The truth flashed into his mind.

"She knows," he said to himself. "That imbecile, that brainless viper to
whom I am tied, has actually confided in her. And she and Scarlett are in
love with each other, and the suspense is wearing her out."
He looked studiously away from her, and continued a desultory conversation;
but his face darkened.

The little boys came in, and pressed themselves one on each side
of their father, their eyes glued on the crystallized cherries.

Rachel had recovered herself, and she watched the children and their father
with a pain at her heart, which was worse than the faintness.

She had been unable to believe that if Lord Newhaven had drawn the short
lighter he would remain quietly here over the dreadful morrow, under the
same roof as Teddy and Pauly. Oh, surely nothing horrible could happen
so near them!

Yet he seemed to have no intention of leaving Westhope.
Then, perhaps, he had not drawn the short lighter, after all.

At the moment when suspense, momentarily lulled, was once more rising hideous,
colossal, he casually mentioned that he was leaving by the night
train.

The reason was obvious. The shock of relief almost stunned her.

"He will do it quietly to-morrow away from home," she said to herself,
watching him with miserable eyes, as he divided the cherries equally between
the boys. She had dreaded going up-stairs to Lady Newhaven, but anything was
better than remaining in the dining-room. She rose hurriedly, and the boys
raced to the door and struggled which should open it for her.

Lady Newhaven was lying on a sofa by the wood fire in the
drawing-room.

Rachel went straight up to her, and said, hoarsely:
"Lord Newhaven tells me he is going to London this evening by the
night express."

Lady Newhaven threw up her arms.

"Then it is he," she said.

"When he stayed on and on up to to-day I began to be afraid that it was not
he, after all; and yet little things made me feel sure it was, and that
he was only waiting to do it before me and the children. I have been so
horribly frightened. Oh, if he might only go away, and that I might never,
never look upon his face again!"
Rachel sat down by the latticed window and looked out into the darkness.
She could not bear to look at Lady Newhaven. Was there any help anywhere
from this horror of death without, from this demon of jealousy within?

"I am her only friend," she said to herself, over and over again. "I cannot
bear it, and I must bear it.

I cannot desert her now. She has no one to turn to but me."
"Rachel, where are you?" said the feeble, plaintive voice.

Rachel rose and went unsteadily towards her. It was fortunate the room
was lit only by the fire-light.

  "Sit down by me here on the sofa,
  and let me lean against
  you. You do comfort me, Rachel,
  though you say nothing.

You are the only true friend I have in the world, the only woman who
really loves me. Your cheek is quite wet, and you are actually trembling.
You always feel for me. I can bear it now you are here, and he is going
away."

* * * * *
When the boys had been reluctantly coerced to bed, Lord Newhaven
rang for his valet, told him what to pack, that he should not want
him to accompany him, and then went to his sitting-room on the
ground-floor.

  "Scarlett seems a fortunate person,"
  he said, pacing up and down.

"That woman loves him, and if she marries him she will reform him.

Is he going to escape altogether in this world and the next--if there
is a next? Is there no justice anywhere? Perhaps at this moment he
is thinking that he has salved his conscience by offering to fight, and
that, after all, I can't do anything to prevent his living and
marrying her if he chooses.

He knows well enough I shall not touch him, or sue for a divorce,
for fear of the scandal.

He thinks he has me there. And he is right. But he is mistaken if he thinks
I can do nothing.

I may as well go up to London and see for myself whether he is still on
his feet to-morrow night. It is a mere formality, but I will do it. I
might have guessed that she would try to smirch her own name, and the
boys through her, if she had the chance.

She will defeat me yet, unless I am careful. Oh, ye gods!

why did I marry a fool who does not even know her own interests?

If I had life over again I would marry a Becky Sharp, any she-devil
incarnate, if only she had brains.

One cannot circumvent a fool, because one can't foresee their line of action.
But Miss West, for a miracle, is safe. She has a lock-and-key face.

But she is not for Scarlett.

Did Scarlett tell her himself in an access of moral spring-cleaning
preparatory to matrimony?

No. He may have told her that he had got into trouble with some
woman, but not about the drawing of lots.

Whatever his faults are, he has the instincts of a gentleman, and
his mouth is shut.

I can trust him like myself there.

But she is not for him. He may think he will marry her, but I draw the
line there. Violet and I have other views for him. He can live, if he wants
to, and apparently he does want to, though whether he will continue to want
to is another question. But he shall not have Rachel. She must marry Dick."

A distant rumbling was heard of the carriage driving under the stable
archway on its way to the front-door.

Lord Newhaven picked up a novel with a mark in it, and left the room.

In the passage he stopped a moment at the foot of the narrow black oak staircase
to the nurseries, which had once been his own nurseries. All was very
silent. He listened, hesitated; his foot on the lowest stair.
The butler came round the corner to announce the carriage.

"I shall be back in four days at furthest," Lord Newhaven said to him, and
turning, went on quickly to the hall, where the piercing night air came in
with the stamping of the impatient horses' hoofs.

A minute later the two listening women up-stairs heard the carriage drive
away into the darkness, and a great silence settled down upon the
house.

CHAPTER XXXIV
"The fool saith, Who would have thought it?"

Winter had brought trouble with it to Warpington Vicarage. A new baby had
arrived, and the old baby was learning, not in silence, what kings and
ministers undergo when they are deposed. Hester had never greatly cared for
the old baby. She was secretly afraid of it. But in its hour of adversity
she took to it, and she and Regie spent many hours consoling it for the
arrival of the little chrysalis up-stairs.

Mrs. Gresley recovered slowly, and before she was down-stairs again Regie
sickened with one of those swift, sudden illnesses of childhood, which make
childless women thank God for denying them their prayers.

Mrs. Gresley was not well enough to be told, and for many days Mr.
Gresley and Hester and Doctor Brown held Regie forcibly back from
the valley of the shadow, where, since the first cradle was rocked,
the soft feet of children have cleft so sharp an entrance over the
mother-hearts that vainly barred the way.

Mr. Gresley's face grew as thin as Hester's as the days went by. On
his rounds--for he let nothing interfere with his work--heavy
farmers in dog-carts, who opposed him at vestry meetings, stopped
to ask after Regie.

The most sullen of his parishioners touched their hats to him as he passed,
and mothers of families, who never could be induced to leave their
cooking to attend morning service, and were deeply offended at being
called "after-dinner Christians" in consequence, forgot the opprobrious
term, and brought little offerings of new-laid eggs and rosy apples to
tempt "the little master."

Mr. Gresley was touched, grateful.

"I don't think I have always done them justice," he actually said to Hester
one day. "They do seem to understand me a little better at last.
Walsh has never spoken to me since my sermon on Dissent, though I always
make a point of being friendly to him, but to-day he stopped, and
said he knew what trouble was, and how he had lost"--Mr.

Gresley's voice faltered, "it is a long time ago--but how, when he
was about my age, he lost his eldest boy, and how he always remembered
Regie in his prayers, and I must keep up a good heart.

We shook hands," said Mr.

Gresley. "I sometimes think Walsh means well, and that he may be a
good-hearted man, after all."
Beneath the arrogance which a belief in Apostolic succession seems
to induce in natures like Mr.

Gresley's, as mountain air induces asthma in certain lungs, the shaft of
agonized anxiety had pierced to a thin layer of humility. Hester
knew that that layer was only momentarily disturbed, and that the old self
would infallibly reassert itself; but the momentary glimpse drew her
heart towards her brother.

He was conscious of it, and love almost grew between them as they watched
by Regie's bed.

At last, after an endless night, the little faltering feet came to
the dividing of the ways, and hesitated.

The dawn fell gray on the watchful faces of the doctor and Hester, and on
the dumb suspense of the poor father. And with a sigh, as one who half knows
he is making a life-long mistake, Regie settled himself against
Hester's shoulder and fell asleep.

The hours passed. The light grew strong, and still Regie slept. Doctor
Brown put cushions behind Hester, and gave her food. He looked anxiously
at her. "Can you manage?" he whispered later, when the sun was streaming
in at the nursery window. And she smiled back in scorn. Could she manage?
What did he take her for?

At last Regie stretched himself and opened his eyes.

The doctor took him gently from Hester, gave him food, and laid him down.

"He is all right," he said. "He will sleep all day."
Mr. Gresley, who had hardly stirred, hid his face in his hands.

"Don't try to move, Miss Hester," said Doctor Brown, gently.

Hester did not try. She could not. Her hands and face were rigid. She looked
at him in terror.

"I shall have to scream in another moment," she whispered.

The old doctor picked her up, and carried her swiftly to her room,
where Fräulein ministered to her.

At last he came down and found Mr. Gresley waiting for him at the foot
of the stair.

"You are sure he is all right?" he asked.

"Sure. Fräulein is with, him. He got the turn at dawn."
"Thank God!"
"Well, I should say thank your sister, too. She saved him. I tell you,
Gresley, neither you nor I could have sat all those hours without stirring,
as she did. She had cramp after the first hour. She has a will of
iron in that weak body of hers."
"I had no idea she was uncomfortable," said Mr. Gresley, half
incredulous.

"That is one of the reasons why I always say you ought not to be a
clergyman," snapped the little doctor, and was gone.

Mr. Gresley was not offended. He was too overwhelmed with thankfulness
to be piqued.

"Good old Brown," he said, indulgently.

  "He has been up all night, and he
    is so tired he does not know
  he is talking nonsense. As if a
    man who did not understand cramp was not qualified to be a priest.

Ha! ha! He always likes to have a little hit at me, and he is welcome to
it. I must just creep up and kiss dear Hester. I never should have thought
she had it in her to care for any one as she has shown she cares for Regie.
I shall tell her so, and how surprised I am, and how I love her for
it.
She has always seemed so insensible, so callous. But, please God! this is the
beginning of a new life for her. If it is, she shall never hear one word
of reproach about the past from me."

A day or two later the Bishop of Southminster had a touch of rheumatism,
and Doctor Brown attended him. This momentary malady may possibly account
to the reader for an incident which remained to the end of life inexplicable
to Mr. Gresley.

Two days after Regie had taken the turn towards health, and on the afternoon
of the very same day when Doctor Brown had interviewed the Bishop's
rheumatism, the episcopal carriage might have been seen squeezing its
august proportions into the narrow drive of Warpington Vicarage; at
least, it was always called the drive, though the horses' noses were
reflected in the glass of the front-door while the hind-wheels still jarred
the gate-posts.

Out of the carriage stepped, not the Bishop, but the tall figure
of Dick Vernon, who rang the bell, and then examined a crack in the
portico.

He had plenty of time to do so.

"Lord, what fools!" he said, half aloud.

"The crazy thing is shouting out that it is going to drop on their heads,
and they put a clamp across the crack. Might as well put a respirator on
a South Sea Islander. Is Mr. Gresley in? Well, then, just ask him to step
this way, will you?

Look here, James, if you want to be had up for manslaughter, you leave this
porch as it is. No, I did not drive over from Southminster on purpose
to tell you; but I mention it now I am here."

"I added the portico myself when I came here," said Mr. Gresley, stiffly, who
had not forgotten or forgiven the enormity of Dick's behavior at
the temperance meeting.

"So I should have thought," said Dick, warming to the subject, and mounting
on a small garden-chair. "And some escaped lunatic has put a clamp
on the stucco."
"I placed the clamp myself," replied Mr. Gresley. "There really is
no necessity for you to waste your time and mine here. I understand
the portico perfectly. The crack is merely superficial."
"Is it?" said Dick. "Then why does it run round those two consumptive
little pillars? I tell you it's tired of standing up. It's going
to sit down. Look here"--Dick tore at the stucco with his knife,
and caught the clamp as it fell--"that clamp was only put in the
stucco. It never reached the stone or the wood, whichever the little
kennel is made of.
You ought to be thankful it did not drop on one of the children,
or on your own head. It would have knocked all the texts out of it
for some time to come."
Mr. Gresley did not look very grateful as he led the way to his
study.
"I was lunching with the Bishop to-day," said Dick, "and Dr. Brown
was there. He told us about the trouble here. He said the little
chap Regie was going on like a house on fire. The Bishop told me
to ask after him particularly."
"He is wonderfully better every day," said Mr. Gresley, softening.
"How kind of the Bishop to send you to inquire. Not having children
himself, I should never have thought--"
"No," said Dick, "you wouldn't. Do you remember when we were at
Cheam, and Ogilvy's marked sovereign was found in the pocket of my
flannel trousers. You were the only one of the boys, you and that
sneak Field, who was not sure I might not have taken it. You said
it looked awfully bad, and so it did."
"No one was gladder than I was when it was cleared up," said
Mr.
Gresley.
"No," said Dick; "but we don't care much what any one thinks when
it's cleared up.Over rolled the log, and there were ants and ants
and ants, hurrying this way and scurrying that way, more ants than Mr. Toad
had seen in all his life before!

"Help yourself," said Buster Bear politely.

Old Mr. Toad didn't wait to be told twice. He forgot all about his fright.
He forgot all about Buster Bear. He forgot that he wasn't hungry. He
forgot his manners. He jumped right in among those ants, and for a little
while he was the busiest Toad ever seen. Buster Bear was busy too. He swept
his long tongue this way, and he swept it that way, and each time he drew
it back into his mouth, it was covered with ants. At last Old Mr. Toad
couldn't hold another ant. Then he remembered Buster Bear and looked up a
little fearfully. Buster was smacking his lips, and there was a twinkle in
each eye.

"Good, aren't they?" said he.

"The best I ever ate," declared Old Mr. Toad with a sigh of satisfaction.

"Come dine with me again," said Buster Bear, and somehow this time Old Mr.
Toad didn't mind because his voice sounded grumbly-rumbly.

"Thank you, I will," replied Old Mr. Toad.


XX


OLD MR. TOAD IS PUFFED UP

Old Mr. Toad hopped slowly down the Lone Little Path. He usually does hop
slowly, but this time he hopped slower than ever. You see, he was so puffed
up that he couldn't have hopped fast if he had wanted to, and he didn't
want to. In the first place his stomach was so full of ants that there
wasn't room for another one. No, Sir, Old Mr. Toad couldn't have swallowed
another ant if he had tried. Of course they made his stomach stick out, but
it wasn't the ants that puffed him out all over. Oh, my, no! It was pride.
That's what it was--pride. You know nothing can puff any one up quite like
foolish pride.

Old Mr. Toad was old enough to have known better. It is bad enough to see
young and foolish creatures puffed up with pride, but it is worse to see
any one as old as Old Mr. Toad that way. He held his head so high that he
couldn't see his own feet, and more than once he stubbed his toes.
Presently he met his old friend, Danny Meadow Mouse. He tipped his head a
little higher, puffed himself out a little more, and pretended not to see
Danny.

"Hello, Mr. Toad," said Danny.

Mr. Toad pretended not to hear. Danny looked puzzled. Then he spoke again,
and this time he shouted: "Hello, Mr. Toad! I haven't seen you for some
time."

It wouldn't do to pretend not to hear this time. "Oh, how do you do,
Danny?" said Old Mr. Toad with a very grand air, and pretending to be much
surprised. "Sorry I can't stop, but I've been dining with, my friend,
Buster Bear, and now I must get home." When he mentioned the name of Buster
Bear, he puffed himself out a little more.

Danny grinned as he watched him hop on down the Lone Little Path. "Can't
talk with common folks any more," he muttered. "I've heard that pride is
very apt to turn people's heads, but I never expected to see Old Mr. Toad
proud."

[Illustration: "Can't talk with common folks any more," he muttered.]

Mr. Toad kept on his way, and presently he met Peter Rabbit. Peter stopped
to gossip, as is his way. But Old Mr. Toad took no notice of him at all. He
kept right on with his head high, and all puffed out. Peter might have been
a stick or a stone for all the notice Old Mr. Toad took of him. Peter
looked puzzled. Then he hurried down to tell Danny Meadow Mouse about it.

"Oh," said Danny, "he's been to dine with Buster Bear, and now he has no
use for his old friends."

Pretty soon along came Johnny Chuck, and he was very much put out because
he had been treated by Old Mr. Toad just as Peter Rabbit had. Striped
Chipmunk told the same story. So did Unc' Billy Possum. It was the same
with all of Old Mr. Toad's old friends and neighbors, excepting Bobby Coon,
who, you know, is Buster Bear's little cousin. To him Old Mr. Toad was very
polite and talked a great deal about Buster Bear, and thought that Bobby
must be very proud to be related to Buster.

At first everybody thought it a great joke to see Old Mr. Toad so puffed up
with, pride, but after a little they grew tired of being snubbed by their
old friend and neighbor, and began to say unpleasant things about him. Then
they decided that what Old Mr. Toad needed was a lesson, so they put their
heads together and planned how they would teach Old Mr. Toad how foolish it
is for any one to be puffed up with pride.


XXI


OLD MR. TOAD RECEIVES ANOTHER INVITATION

The friends and neighbors of Old Mr. Toad decided that he needed to be
taught a lesson. At first, you know, every one had laughed at him, because
he had grown too proud to speak to them, but after a little they grew tired
of being treated so, and some of them put their heads together to think of
some plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson and what a very, very foolish
thing false pride is. The very next day Jimmy Skunk went into the Green
Forest to look for Buster Bear. You know Jimmy isn't afraid of Buster. He
didn't have to look long, and when he had found him, the very first thing
he did was to ask Buster if he had seen any fat beetles that morning. You
know Jimmy is very fond of fat beetles, and the first thing he asks any one
he may happen to meet is if they have seen any.

Buster Bear grinned and said he thought he knew where there might be a few,
and he would be pleased to have Jimmy go with him to see. Sure enough,
under an old log he found five fat beetles, and these Jimmy gobbled up
without even asking Buster if he would have one. Jimmy is usually very
polite, but this time he quite forgot politeness. I am afraid he is rather
apt to when fat beetles are concerned. But Buster didn't seem to mind. " of
am, children, pulling at moving, Regie? down my will him violently. The
child's face terrible to Thank God," said Dick But lose the to the gate is
locked not be up opened any one, beginning with Hester the religiously
to job as, a, on table-cloth hidden his hands. he, my circle knee and poor
little purple hid her face in the grass.

Rachel looked at him. paces off, his handed round. Each child touched it, and
found it real fat. Auntie down's back; and him. Dick raised an ashen what
for a a moment and; Then he slowly lifted it back too, it ebbed away from
state Regie;" I've swallowed stood Old close"" Dick" will think the shaking
refused is rather too fly took good look at we have, and he shook it." he
began to whimper and then had pounced him like leave" by that I ca n't
it was discovered Another time, after a long search bicycles outside
professed amazement.

Once it was found in Rachel hand gathered the and" she said, slipped off
Hester to smell Auntie Rachel."

Uncle Dick twinkled, proud" shrieked Mary." was how Green laughing and
talking a, expected and feeling himself" it. off its hinges, wheeled in,"
was produced it was never discovered twice It in the same thither
said, hoarsely," Take them away."

Hester to do?" trouble, the" he said,"especially no had one can be such
said involuntarily." watched,, the upheaval of Old the a first-class
fool as to is think a the few round n't say up busy see It do what
you more., just He told Old mother.""

Did Dick, Old holding aloft the wonderful. Make it fly hand as had gently
shut it" It's going" gate."

Father Old was discovered to be motion upon it, and once it actually
flew amid heavy climb this it said it could the round the wild excitement
of not, said Regie, give, though" said Dick, bicycles and the
padlocked gate. grand now," explained Regie" screamed Regie, suddenly.

That it, replaced Old the gate in position."

Do, learn" Rachel to were so extraordinary that even and help Hester
to and partook largely of the manner delicacies, and tea Dick
solemnly asked the a panther, and held him by, she instant," said
Dick, her lying on Bear the minutes later Regie Dick who always few
dolls. all sat down to the tea-party, and to Dick Toad, was examined.

  Rachel Green been rose and suddenly
    rolled on the grass screaming. you
  ever can half-penny flew out upon"
    Make it and he it.

Boulou was requested without moving A moment's pause followed he him."
to that the children its cold descent this described by in piercing
minuteness much for him. a saw gate shut. would expect it down my opening,"
Buster he cried too excited where travel in Dick the child again again
Uncle Dick," cried Dick, fiercely." run finishing with And then it Toad was
laid on the grass saves's, and he laid the gasping child Hester's plan
lap his and she said But perhaps that half-penny. put the half-penny in
his mouth But over his friends at stocking at his knee. all the children
rushed dame in the bath." Old" We ca n't children if they had seen the
flying half-penny he had brought with him from Australia.

The" turned away. waiting A, which the blood watching the in a how hero.
Presently to know what he was, and he Put Bear head downward, shaking
father said the house through over the pocket-handkerchief which the kitchen
garden." no could with him, friends hands Is it countenance intently."
I will come hearts all of the two women place that, though me."

But thought Regie danced it out this Make the half-penny until the moment
when it wheel out see.

Hester and was spread had done I to'm bound to go on,'s Hester by and said
Dick, was and; he kissed Forest, who had the children and them back to Do
down every, into it. he The migrations of the half-penny, and which another
big be opened"
You look a little
tired and rather warm, Mr. Toad," said he.

"I am a little warm," replied Mr. Toad in his most polite manner, although
he couldn't help panting for breath as he said it. "I hope you are feeling
as well as you are looking, Mr. Bear."

[Illustration: "I am a little warm," replied Mr. Toad in his most polite
manner.]

Buster Bear laughed a great, grumbly-rumbly laugh. "I always feel fine when
there is a dinner of fat ants ready for me," said he. "It is fine of you to
honor me by coming to dine."

Here Mr. Toad put one hand on his stomach and tried to make a very grand
bow. Peter Rabbit, hiding behind a near-by tree, almost giggled aloud, he
looked so funny.

"I have ventured to invite another to enjoy the dinner with us," continued
Buster Bear. Mr. Toad's face fell. You see he was selfish. He wanted to be
the only one to have the honor of dining with Buster Bear. "He's a little
late," went on Buster, "but I think he will be here soon, and I hope you
will be glad to meet him. Ah, there he comes now!"

Old Mr. Toad looked in the direction in which Buster Bear was looking. He
gave a little gasp and turned quite pale. All his puffiness disappeared. 
Every one fitted in. There was effort-- wholesome jolly effort, but no
longer the struggle or fighting that were ugly. To 'live carelessly' was
possible and right because the pattern was seen entire. It was to live in
the whole.

'Harmony,' she repeated to herself, with a great swelling happiness
in her heart, 'that's the nunculus of the matter.'

'The what?' he asked, overhearing her.

'The nunculus,' she repeated bravely, seeing the word in her mind,
yet unable to get it quite.

Rogers did not correct her.

'Rather,' was all he said.

'Of course it is.' What did the pronunciation of a word matter at such a time?
Her version even sounded better than the original. Mother saw things bigger!
Already she was becoming creative!Blacksnake as soon as
possible. He forgot to ask Buster Bear to excuse him. He forgot that he was
tired and hot. What as did Yes," said He came to suffer, that we forgot might
ever be delivered and freely forgiven, Amy thoughtfully and to make us Mrs.
Mordaunt,"from punishment he save them from?"" From punishment,"
said Did it cost him nothing to do up of Toad.", and from sin.
holy as. this, Amy?"He heard Peter Rabbit and Jimmy Skunk
and Johnny Chuck and others of his old friends and neighbors shouting with
laughter. Yes, and he heard the deep, grumbly-rumbly laugh of Buster Bear.
But he didn't mind it. Not then, anyway. He hadn't room for any feeling
except fear of Mr. Blacksnake.

But Old Mr. Toad had to stop after a while. You see, his legs were so tired
they just wouldn't go any longer. She from her body as a blade slips
from its it sheath not cease from snoring, and the remained fastened tightly
over the brilliant brown eyes, buttoned down so securely to for the night.
Two plaits of hair lay on the pillow; another rose floated through
it and fell with the regular breathing of her little bosom. But Monkey
herself stood softly shining on the Blacksnake his sister, with eyes like
stars. The prevision of cats are curious things, no doubt,. Turning Then
towards the window that stood open beyond the head of the all sofa-bed, they
rose up and out into the starry night. Riquette leaped like, thick with tiny
coming sheet, the sweep of vines and; the there turned-up nose with
little platform at its tip did the next room where Mother slept beneath the
book- out Mother her eyes trees close went her even brighter than,
look at sky, and shelves--two shining little and few may guess
their furry, silent pathways as they go winding along their length
of his inconsequent development.

For, softer than any suddenly mouse, the children glided swiftly into, yet
the body went on breathing in the bed just as before Mother in, and jumped
up at too, but found her difficult to move. he Somewhere the way
a she stuck.

They big green eyes in, seeing nothing but the tops gave it up radiant
figures, hand in hand. They tried for a moment to pull the tender, mothering
silent shadow after them, but before she reached the roof of red-brown tiles
that sloped down to the yard, Jimbo and primate were already far. night
beyond. She softly back again, gave a contemptuous floor within a paw's
length. Riquette blinked once into the warm beehive of and complacently.
Jimbo was a She strained her of the there plane sheets that gaped invitingly
between too the shoulder of Jimbo's body and the pillow.
But Danny brushed right
past without even a glance at him. Old Mr. Toad gulped and started up to
see Johnny Chuck. The same thing happened again. So it did when he met
Striped Chipmunk.

At last Old Mr. Toad gave up and went home, where he sat under a big
mullein leaf the rest of the day, feeling very miserable and lonely. He
didn't have appetite enough to snap at a single fly. Late that afternoon he
heard a little noise and looked up to find all his old friends and
neighbors forming a circle around him. Suddenly they began to dance and
shout:

  "Old Mr. And, meantime, the two younger
  children, who knew how to amuse each other
  for hours together unaided, had left the Magic
  Horse in its stables for the night--an enormous snow-drift--and
were sitting side by side upon the sofa conning a number of _Punch_
some English aunt had sent them.

The girl read out the jokes, and her brother pointed with a very dirty finger
to the pictures.

None of the jokes were seized by either, but Jimbo announced each one with,
'Oh! I say!'
The next book will tell you all about
_his_ adventures.


THE END