Produced by Greg Weeks, Dave Lovelace, Stephen Blundell
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration]


 HAIL
 TO THE
 CHIEF


 +-----------------------------+
 |                             |
 |         BY SAM AND          |
 |         JANET ARGO          |
 |                             |
 | A great politician need not |
 | be a statesman ... but it   |
 | is inherently futile to be  |
 | a great statesman, and no   |
 | politician. Except, of      |
 | course, for a miracle ...   |
 |                             |
 +-----------------------------+


The tumult in Convention Hall was a hurricane of sound that lashed at a
sea of human beings that surged and eddied around the broad floor. Men
and women, delegates and spectators, aged party wheelhorses and
youngsters who would vote for the first time that November, all lost
their identities to merge with that swirling tide. Over their heads,
like agitated bits of flotsam, pennants fluttered and placards rose and
dipped. Beneath their feet, discarded metal buttons that bore the names
of two or three "favorite sons" and those that had touted the only
serious contender against the party's new candidate were trodden flat.
None of them had ever really had a chance.

The buttons that were now pinned on every lapel said: "Blast 'em With
Cannon!" or "Cannon Can Do!" The placards and the box-shaped signs, with
a trifle more dignity, said: WIN WITH CANNON and CANNON FOR PRESIDENT
and simply JAMES H. CANNON.

Occasionally, in the roar of noise, there were shouts of "Cannon!
Cannon! Rah! Rah! Rah! Cannon! Cannon! Sis-boom-bah!" and snatches of
old popular tunes hurriedly set with new words:

    _On with Cannon, on with Cannon!
      White House, here we come!
    He's a winner, no beginner;
      He can get things done!
      (Rah! Rah! Rah!)_

And, over in one corner, a group of college girls were enthusiastically
chanting:

    _He is handsome! He is sexy!
    We want J. H. C. for Prexy!_

It was a demonstration that lasted nearly three times as long as the
eighty-five-minute demonstration that had occurred when Representative
Matson had first proposed his name for the party's nomination.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spatially, Senator James Harrington Cannon was four blocks away from
Convention Hall, in a suite at the Statler-Hilton, but electronically,
he was no farther away than the television camera that watched the
cheering multitude from above the floor of the hall.

The hotel room was tastefully and expensively decorated, but neither the
senator nor any of the other men in the room were looking at anything
else except the big thirty-six-inch screen that glowed and danced with
color. The network announcer's words were almost inaudible, since the
volume had been turned way down, but his voice sounded almost as excited
as those from the convention floor.

Senator Cannon's broad, handsome face showed a smile that indicated
pleasure, happiness, and a touch of triumph. His dark, slightly wavy
hair, with the broad swathes of silver at the temples, was a little
disarrayed, and there was a splash of cigarette ash on one trouser leg,
but otherwise, even sitting there in his shirt sleeves, he looked
well-dressed. His wide shoulders tapered down to a narrow waist and lean
hips, and he looked a good ten years younger than his actual fifty-two.

He lit another cigarette, but a careful scrutiny of his face would have
revealed that, though his eyes were on the screen, his thoughts were not
in Convention Hall.

Representative Matson, looking like an amazed bulldog, managed to chew
and puff on his cigar simultaneously and still speak understandable
English. "Never saw anything like it. Never. First ballot and you had
it, Jim. I know Texas was going to put up Perez as a favorite son on the
first ballot, but they couldn't do anything except jump on the bandwagon
by the time the vote reached them. Unanimous on the first ballot."

Governor Spanding, a lantern-jawed, lean man sitting on the other side
of Senator Cannon, gave a short chuckle and said, "Came close not t'
being unanimous. The delegate from Alabama looked as though he was going
to stick to his 'One vote for Byron Beauregarde Cadwallader' until
Cadwallader himself went over to make him change his vote before the
first ballot was complete."

The door opened, and a man came in from the other room. He bounced in on
the balls of his feet, clapped his hands together, and dry-washed them
briskly. "We're in!" he said, with businesslike glee. "Image, gentlemen!
That's what does it: Image!" He was a tall, rather bony-faced man in his
early forties, and his manner was that of the self-satisfied businessman
who is quite certain that he knows all of the answers and all of the
questions. "Create an image that the public goes for, and you're in!"

Senator Cannon turned his head around and grinned. "Thanks, Horvin, but
let's remember that we still have an election to win."

"We'll win it," Horvin said confidently. "A properly projected image
attracts the public--"

"Oh, crud," said Representative Matson in a growly voice. "The
opposition has just as good a staff of PR men as we do. If we beat 'em,
it'll be because we've got a better man, not because we've got better
public relations."

"Of course," said Horvin, unabashed. "We can project a better image
because we've got better material to work with. We--"

"Jim managed to get elected to the Senate without any of your help, and
he went in with an avalanche. If there's any 'image projecting' done
around here, Jim is the one who does it."

Horvin nodded his head as though he were in complete agreement with
Matson. "Exactly. His natural ability plus the scientific application of
mass psychology make an unbeatable team."

Matson started to say something, but Senator Cannon cut in first. "He's
right, Ed. We've got to use every weapon we have to win this election.
Another four years of the present policies, and the Sino-Russian Bloc
will be able to start unilateral disarmament. They won't have to start a
war to bury us."

Horvin looked nervous. "Uh ... Senator--"

Cannon made a motion in the air. "I know, I know. Our policy during the
campaign will be to run down the opposition, not the United States. We
are still in a strong position, but _if this goes on_--Don't worry,
Horvin; the whole thing will be handled properly."

Before any of them could say anything, Senator Cannon turned to
Representative Matson and said: "Ed, will you get Matthew Fisher on the
phone? And the Governor of Pennsylvania and ... let's see ... Senator
Hidekai and Joe Vitelli."

"I didn't even know Fisher was here," Matson said. "What do you want him
for?"

"I just want to talk to him, Ed. Get him up here, with the others, will
you?"

"Sure, Jim; sure." He got up and walked over to the phone.

Horvin, the PR man, said: "Well, Senator, now that you're the party's
candidate for the Presidency of the United States, who are you going to
pick for your running mate? Vollinger was the only one who came even
close to giving you a run for your money, and it would be good public
relations if you chose him. He's got the kind of personality that would
make a good image."

"Horvin," the senator said kindly, "I'll pick the men; you build the
image from the raw material I give you. You're the only man I know who
can convince the public that a sow's ear is really a silk purse, and you
may have to do just that.

"You can start right now. Go down and get hold of the news boys and
tell them that the announcement of my running mate will be made as soon
as this demonstration is over.

"Tell them you can't give them any information other than that, but give
them the impression that you already know. Since you _don't_ know, don't
try to guess; that way you won't let any cats out of the wrong bags. But
you _do_ know that he's a fine man, and you're pleased as all hell that
I made such a good choice. Got that?"

Horvin grinned. "Got it. You pick the man; I'll build the image." He
went out the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the door had closed, Governor Spanding said: "So it's going to be
Fisher, is it?"

"You know too much, Harry," said Senator Cannon, grinning. "Remind me to
appoint you ambassador to Patagonia after Inauguration Day."

"If I lose the election at home, I may take you up on it. But why
Matthew Fisher?"

"He's a good man, Harry."

"Hell yes, he is," the governor said. "Tops. I've seen his record as
State Attorney General and as Lieutenant Governor. And when Governor
Dinsmore died three years ago, Fisher did a fine job filling out his
last year. But--"

"But he couldn't get re-elected two years ago," Senator Cannon said. "He
couldn't keep the governor's office, in spite of the great job he'd
done."

"That's right. He's just not a politician, Jim. He doesn't have the ...
the personality, the flash, whatever it is that it takes to get a man
elected by the people. I've got it; you sure as hell have it; Fisher
doesn't."

"That's why I've got Horvin working for us," said Senator Cannon.
"Whether I need him or not may be a point of argument. Whether Matthew
Fisher needs him or not is a rhetorical question."

Governor Spanding lit a cigarette in silence while he stared at the
quasi-riot that was still coming to the screen from Convention Hall.
Then he said: "You've been thinking of Matt Fisher all along, then."

"Not Patagonia," said the senator. "Tibet."

"I'll shut up if you want me to, Jim."

"No. Go ahead."

"All right. Jim, I trust your judgment. I've got no designs on the Vice
Presidency myself, and you know it. I like to feel that, if I had, you'd
give me a crack at it. No, don't answer that, Jim; just let me talk.

"What I'm trying to say is that there are a lot of good men in the party
who'd make fine VP's; men who've given their all to get you the
nomination, and who'll work even harder to see that you're elected. Why
pass them up in favor of a virtual unknown like Matt Fisher?"

Senator Cannon didn't say anything. Holt. Cobb, Thompson, and myself found
much to differ from in it,--Cobb because it inculcated submission
to Lincoln's election and intimated the use of force to coerce a
submission to his rule, and because it reprehended the policy of
the Kansas-Nebraska bill; Thompson because of the doctrine of
acquiescence and the hostility to the secession doctrine.

I objected to it because I think it misses entirely the temper of the
Southern people and attacks the true State-Rights doctrine on the subject
of secession. I do not see what good can come of the paper, as prepared,
and I do see how much mischief may flow from it.

It is an open question whether we may accept these extracts at their
full literal import.

Either the words "coerce," "submission," "use of force," and so on,
are written down by the diarist in a sense different from that in which
they were spoken, or the President and several of his counselors
underwent an amazing change of sentiment.
But in a general way they show us that on the fourth day after Lincoln's
election the Buchanan Cabinet was already divided into hostile camps.
Cass of Michigan, Secretary of State, Toucey of Connecticut,
Secretary of the Navy, Black of Pennsylvania, Attorney-General, and
Holt of Kentucky, Postmaster-General, were emphatic Unionists; while
Cobb of Georgia, Secretary of the Treasury, Thompson of Mississippi,
Secretary of the Interior, and Floyd of Virginia, Secretary of War,
were secessionists--the latter yet professing devotion to the Union,
but with such ifs and buts as left sufficiently clear evidence of
his inevitable drift to disloyalty.

All impulses of prudence and patriotism ought to have moved the President
to reconstruct his Cabinet. But instead of some energetic executive act
of this character, he seems to have applied himself to the composition
of a political essay to teach the North its duty; as if his single pen
had power to change the will of the people of the United States upon
a point which they had decided by their votes only four days
previously after six years of discussion.

In the draft of this document, which he read to his Cabinet on November
10, we have the important record that "it inculcated submission to Lincoln's
election, and intimated the use of force to coerce a submission to
his rule"--positions which Floyd records were "met with extravagant
commendations from General Cass, Governor Toucey, Judge Black, and
Mr.

Holt."

This was a true touchstone; it instantly brought out not only the
open secessionism of Cobb and Thompson, but the disguised disloyalty
of Floyd.

It is a strange historical phenomenon that, with the President
and a majority of the Cabinet in this frame of mind, the South
should have been permitted to organize rebellion.

       The solution seems to lie in the temporizing feebleness of Buchanan
and in the superior finesse and daring conspiracy of Cobb, Thompson,
and Floyd.

Many indications make it evident that a long factional struggle took place
over the preparation of the President's message. The telegraph announced
several protracted Cabinet sessions; and as early as the 21st of
November the points under discussion and the attitude of the President
and his several official advisers were accurately foreshadowed in
the newspapers.

Nor were these momentous deliberations confined to the Cabinet proper.
All the varieties of suggestion and contradictory counsels which were
solicited or tendered we may never learn, and yet we
know enough to infer the highest extremes and antagonisms of doctrine
and policy. Jefferson Davis, the future chief of the rebellion, came
on the one hand at the urgent call of his fellow-conspirators;
Edwin M.

Stanton, afterwards Buchanan's Attorney-General and Lincoln's
Secretary of War,[4] was on the other hand called in by Mr.

Buchanan himself, to help him through, the intricate maze of his perplexed
opinions and inclinations. How many others may have come voluntarily
or by summons it is impossible to guess.

Many brains and hands, however, must have joined in the work, since
the document is such a heterogeneous medley of conflicting theories,
irreconcilable doctrines, impracticable and irrelevant suggestions.

For at length the hesitating and bewildered President, unable to decide
and impotent to construct, seems to have made his message a patchwork
from the contributions of his advisers, regular and irregular, with the
inevitable effect, not to combine and strengthen, but to weaken
and confuse the warring thoughts and alien systems.

Aside from the mere recapitulation of department reports, the message of
President Buchanan delivered to Congress on the 4th of December occupied
itself mainly with two subjects--slavery and disunion. On the question
of slavery it repeated the assertions and arguments of the
Buchanan faction of the Democratic party during the late Presidential
campaign, charging the present peril entirely upon the North.

As a remedy it recommended an amendment to the Federal Constitution
expressly[5] recognizing slavery in States which had adopted or
might adopt it, and also expressly giving it existence and protection
in the Federal Territories.

The proposal was simply childish. Precisely this issue had been decided
at the Presidential election; to do this would be to reverse the final
verdict of the ballot-box.[6]
On the question of disunion or secession, the message raised a vague
and unwarrantable distinction between the infractions of law and
allegiance by individuals, and the infractions of law and
allegiance by the commonwealth, or body politic denominated a State.

Under the first head it held: That the Union was designed to be perpetual;
that the Federal Government is invested with sovereign powers on special
subjects, which can only be opposed or abrogated by revolution;
that secession is unconstitutional, and is, therefore, neither more
nor less than revolution; that the Executive has no right to recognize
the secession of a State; that the Constitution has established a
perfect government in all its forms, legislative, executive, and
judicial, and this government, to the extent of its powers, acts
directly upon the individual citizen of every State and executes
its own decrees by the agency of its own officers; and, finally,
that the Executive cannot be absolved from his duty to execute the
laws.

But, continued the President, the laws can only be executed in certain
prescribed methods, through the agency of courts, marshals, _posse
comitatus_, aided, if necessary, by the militia or land and naval forces.
The means and agencies, therefore, fail, and the performance of this
duty becomes impraticable, when, as in South Carolina, universal
public sentiment has deprived him of courts, marshals, and _posse_.

Present laws being inadequate to overcome a united opposition, even in a
single State, Congress alone has the power to decide whether they can
be effectually amended.[7]
It will be seen from the above summary, that the whole of the President's
rambling discussion of the first head of the disunion question
resulted logically in three ultimate conclusions: (1) That South
Carolina was in revolt; (2) that the Constitution, the laws, and
moral obligation all united gave the Government the right to suppress
this revolt by executing the laws upon and against the citizens of
that State; (3) that certain defects in the laws paralyzed their
practical enforcement.

Up to this point in his argument, his opinions, whatever may be
thought of their soundness, were confined to the legitimate field
of executive interpretation, and such as in the exercise of his
official discretion he might with undoubted propriety communicate
to Congress.

But he had apparently failed to satisfy his own conscience in thus
summarily reasoning the executive and governmental power of a young,
compact, vigorous, and thoroughly organized nation of thirty
millions of people into sheer nothingness and impotence.

How supremely absurd was the whole national panoply of commerce, credit,
coinage, treaty power, judiciary, taxation, militia, army and navy,
and Federal fag, if, through the mere joint of a defective law, the
hollow reed of a secession ordinance could inflict a fatal wound!

[Illustration: JAMES BUCHANAN.]
[Sidenote] Appendix, "Globe," Dec. 3, 1860, p. 3.

The President proceeds, therefore, to discuss the second head of
the disunion question, by an attempt to formulate and define the
powers and duties of Congress with reference to the threatened
rebellion.

He would not only roll the burden from his own shoulders upon the
National Legislature, but he would by volunteer advice instruct that
body how it must be borne and disposed of. Addressing Congress, he
says in substance: "You may be called upon to decide the momentous
question, whether you possess the power by force of arms to compel a State
to remain in the Union....

The question, fairly stated, is: Has the Constitution delegated to
Congress the power to coerce a State into submission which is
attempting to withdraw, or has actually withdrawn, from the
Confederacy!

       If answered in the affirmative, it must be on the principle that
the power has been conferred upon Congress to declare and make war
against a State.

After much serious reflection I have arrived at the conclusion that no
such power has been delegated to Congress, or to any other department
of the Federal Government.... It may be safely asserted that the power
to make war against a State is at variance with the whole spirit and
intent of the Constitution.... But if we possessed this power, would
it be wise to exercise it under existing circumstances?... Our Union
rests upon public opinion, and can never be cemented by the blood of its
citizens shed in civil war.... Congress possesses many means of preserving
it by conciliation; but the sword was not placed in their hand to preserve
it by force."
Why did the message thus leap at one bound without necessary connection
or coherence from the discussion of executive to those of
legislative powers? Why waste words over doubtful theories when there
was pressing need to suggest practical amendments to the statute
whose real or imaginary defects Mr.

Buchanan had pointed out? Why indulge in lamentations over the remote
possibility that Congress might violate the Constitution, when the
occasion demanded only prompt preventive orders from the Executive
to arrest the actual threatened violation of law by Charleston mobs?

Why talk of war against States when the duty of the hour was
the exercise of acknowledged authority against insurrectionary
citizens?

The issue and argument were wholly false and irrelevant. No State had
yet seceded. Execute such laws of the United States as were in acknowledged
vigor, and disunion would be impossible.

Buchanan needed only to do what he afterwards so truthfully asserted
Lincoln had done.[8] But through his inaction, and still more through
his declared want of either power or right to act, disunion gained
two important advantages--the influence of the Executive voice upon
public opinion, and especially upon Congress; and the substantial
pledge of the Administration that it would lay no straw in the path
of peaceful, organized measures to bring about State secession.

[Sidenote] Correspondence, N.Y. "Evening Post".

[Sidenote] Washington "Constitution" of December 19, 1860.

[Sidenote] London "Times," Jan. 9, 1851.

The central dogma of the message, that while a State has no right to secede,
the Union has no right to coerce, has been universally condemned as a
paradox. The popular estimate of Mr. Buchanan's proposition and
arguments was forcibly presented at the time by a jesting criticism
attributed to Mr.

Seward. "I think," said the New York Senator, "the President has
conclusively proved two things: (1) That no State has the right to secede
unless it wishes to; and (2) that it is the President's duty to enforce
the laws unless somebody opposes him." No less damaging was the
explanation put upon his language by his political friends.

The recognized organ of the Administration said: "Mr.

Buchanan has increased the displeasure of the Lincoln party by his
repudiation of the coercion theory, and his firm refusal to permit
a resort to force as a means of preventing the secession of a
sovereign State."

Nor were intelligent lookers-on in foreign lands less severe in their
judgment: "Mr. Buchanan's message," said the London "Times," a month
later, "has been a greater blow to the American people than all the rant
of the Georgian Governor or the 'ordinances' of the Charleston
Convention.

The President has dissipated the idea that the States which elected him
constitute one people."
---------- [1] There were 3,832,240 opposition popular votes against
847,953 for Breckinridge and Lane, the Presidential ticket championed
by Mr.
Buchanan and his adherents.

[2] Printed in "The Early Life, Campaigns, and Public Services of Robert
E. Lee, with a record of the campaigns and heroic deeds of his
companions in arms, by a distinguished Southern journalist." 8vo.
E.B.
Treat, publisher, New York, 1871; p. 789; article, Major-General John
B. Floyd. It says: "Among his private papers examined after his
death the fragment of a diary was found, written in his own hand,
and which is here copied entire."

The diary also bears internal evidence of genuineness.

[3] The astounding mysteries and eccentricities of politics find
illustration in the remarkable contrast between this recorded
impulsive and patriotic expression of Attorney-General Black on November
7, and his labored official opinion of an apparently opposite tenor,
certified to the President under date of November 20.

See "Opinions of the Attorneys-General." Vol. IX., p. 517.

[4] "It was while these plans for a _coup d'état_ before the 4th of March
were being matured in the very Cabinet itself and in the presence
of a President too feeble to resist them and too blind oven to see
them, that Mr.

       Stanton was sent for by Mr.

Buchanan to answer the question, 'Can a State be coerced?' For two
hours he battled, and finally scattered for the time being the heresies
with which secession had filled the head of that old broken-down man.
He was requested to prepare an argument in support of the power, to be
inserted in the forthcoming message."--Hon.

H.L. Dawes, in the "Boston Congregationalist." See "Atlantic Monthly,"
October, 1870, p. 468.

[5] Slavery existed by virtue of express enactments in the several
constitutions of the slave States, but the Constitution of the
United States gave it only implied recognition and toleration

.

[6] "It was with some surprise, I confess, that I read the message
of the President.

The message laid down certain conditions as those upon which alone
the great Confederacy of the United States could be preserved from
disruption.

In so doing the President appeared to be preparing beforehand an apology
for the secession. Had the conditions, indeed, been such as the
Northern States would be likely to accept, the message might have been
considered one of peace. But it seems very improbable that the Northern
States should now, at the moment of their triumph, and with large
majorities of Republicans in their assemblies, submit to conditions
which, during many years of struggle, they have rejected or evaded."--Lord
John Russell to Lord Lyons, December 26, 1860.

British Blue Book.

[7] The logic of the message breaks down by the palpable omission to
state the well-known fact that, though every citizen of South Carolina,
or any other State, might refuse to accept or execute the office of
United States marshal, or, indeed, any Federal office, the want
could be immediately lawfully supplied by appointing any qualified
citizen of any other State, who might lawfully and properly lead
either a _posse_, or Federal forces, or State militia, to put down
obstruction of the Federal laws, insurrection, or rebellion.

President Buchanan admitted his own error, and repudiated his own
doctrine, when on January 2, following, he nominated a citizen of
Pennsylvania for the office of collector of the port of Charleston, South
Carolina.

Sections two and three of the Act of February 28, 1795, authorize the
President, when the execution of the laws is obstructed by insurrection
too powerful for courts and marshals, to call forth the militia
of any and all the States, first and primarily to "suppress such
combinations," and, secondly, "to cause the laws to be duly executed,
and the use of militia so to be called forth may be continued, if
necessary, until the expiration of thirty days after the commencement
of the then next session of Congress."

In performing this duty the act imposes but a single condition or
prerequisite on the Executive: he shall "by proclamation command
the insurgents to disperse." These sections are complete, harmonious,
self-sufficient, and, in their chief provisions, nowise dependent
upon or connected with any other section or clause of the act.

They place under the President's command the whole militia, and by a
subsequent law (March 3, 1807) also the entire army and navy of the
Union, against rebellion. The assertion that the army can only follow a
marshal and his writ in case of rebellion, is not only unsupported by
the language of the act, but utterly refuted by strong implication. The
last section repeals a former provision limiting the President's action
to cases of insurrection of which United States judges shall have given
him notice, and thereby remits him to any and all of his official
sources of information.

Jackson's famous force bill only provided certain supplementary
details; it directly recognized and invoked the great powers of the Act
of 1795, and expiring by limitation, left its wholesome plenitude and
broad original grant of authority unrepealed and unimpaired.

[8] "Happily our civil war was undertaken and prosecuted in self-defense,
not to coerce a State, but to enforce the execution of the laws
within the States against individuals, and to suppress an unjust
rebellion raised by a conspiracy among them against the Government
of the United States."

--Buchanan, in "Mr. Buchanan's Administration," p. 129.

CHAPTER XXIII
THE CHARLESTON CONSPIRATORS

As President Buchanan might have foreseen, his inconsistent message
proved satisfactory to neither friend nor foe.
By this time, the blaze had eaten away more than half of the hulk, and
it was surrounded by a haze of smoke and hot gas that was spreading
rapidly away from it. The flare of light far outshone the light
reflected from the sun by the Earth overhead.

"Get those cameras going!" the major snapped. He knew that the eight
moon-cats that formed the distant perimeter had been recording steadily,
but he wanted close-ups, if possible.

None of the cameras got much of anything. The blaze didn't last long,
fierce as it was. When it finally died, and the smoke particles settled
slowly to the lunar surface, there was only a blackened spot where the
bulk of a spaceship had been.

"Well ... I ... will ... be--," said Major Valentin Udovichenko.

       *       *       *       *       *

The TV debate was over. The senator and the President had gone at each
other hot and heavy, hammer and tongs, with the senator clearly emerging
as the victor. But no mention whatever had been made of the Soviet
announcement from Luna.

At four thirty-five the next morning, the telephone rang in the
senator's suite. Cannon had been waiting for it, and he was quick to
answer.

The face that appeared on the screen was that of the President of the
United States. "Your scheme worked, senator," he said without preamble.
There was an aloofness, a coolness in his voice. Which was only natural,
considering the heat of the debate the previous evening.

"I'm glad to hear it, Mr. President," the senator said, with only a hair
less coolness. "What happened?"

"Your surmise that the Soviet officials did not realize the potential of
the new craft was apparently correct," the President said. "General
Thayer had already sent another ship in to rescue the crew of the
disabled vessel, staying low, below the horizon of the Russian radar.
The disabled ship had had some trouble with its drive mechanism; it
would never have deliberately exposed itself to Russian detection.
General Thayer had already asked my permission to destroy the disabled
vessel rather than let the Soviets get their hands on it, and, but for
your suggestion, I would have given him a go-ahead.

"But making a replica of the ship in plastic was less than a two-hour
job. The materials were at hand; a special foam plastic is used as
insulation from the chill of the lunar substrata. The foam plastic was
impregnated with ammonium nitrate and foamed up with pure oxygen; since
it is catalyst-setting, that could be done at low temperatures. The
outside of the form was covered with metallized plastic, also
impregnated with ammonium nitrate. I understand that the thing burned
like unconfined gunpowder after it was planted in the path of the Soviet
moon-cats and set off. The Soviet vehicles are on their way back to
their base now."

After a moment's hesitation, he went on: "Senator, in spite of our
political differences, I want to say that I appreciate a man who can put
his country's welfare ahead of his political ambitions."

"Thank you, Mr. President. That is a compliment I appreciate and accept.
But I want you to know that the notion of decoying them away with an
inflammable plastic replica was not my idea; it was Matt Fisher's."

"Oh? My compliments to Mr. Fisher." He smiled then. It was obviously
forced, but, just as obviously, there was sincerity behind it. "I hope
the best team wins. But if it does not, I am secure in the knowledge
that the second best team is quite competent."

Firmly repressing a desire to say, _I am sorry that I don't feel any
such security myself_, Cannon merely said: "Thank you again, Mr.
President."

When the connection was cut, Cannon grinned at Matthew Fisher. "That's
it. We've saved a ship. It can be repaired where it is without a fleet
of Soviet moon-cats prowling around and interfering. And we've scotched
any attempts at propagandizing that the Soviets may have had in mind."
He chuckled. "I'd like to have seen their faces when that thing started
to burn in a vacuum. And I'd like to see the reports that are being
flashed back and forth between Moscow and Soviet Moon Base One."

"I wasn't so much worried about the loss of the disabled ship as the
_way_ we'd lose it," Matthew Fisher said.

"The Soviets getting it?" Cannon asked. "We didn't have to worry about
that. You heard him say that Thayer was going to destroy it."

"That's exactly what I meant," said Fisher. "_How_ were we going to
destroy it? TNT or dynamite or Radex-3 would have still left enough
behind for a good Soviet team to make some kind of sense out of it--some
kind of hint would be there, unless an awful lot of it were used. A
fission or a thermonuclear bomb would have vaporized it, but that would
have been a violation of the East-West Agreement. We'd be flatly in the
wrong."

Senator Cannon walked over to the sideboard and poured Scotch into two
glasses. "The way it stands now, the ship will at least be able to limp
out of there before anyone in Moscow can figure out what happened and
transmit orders back to Luna." He walked back with the glasses and
handed one to Fisher. "Let's have a drink and go to bed. We have to be
in Philadelphia tomorrow, and I'm dead tired."

"That's a pair of us," said Fisher, taking the glass.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another month of campaigning, involving both televised and personal
appearances, went by without unusual incidents. The prophets, seers,
and pollsters were having themselves a grand time. Some of them--the
predicting-by-past-performances men--were pointing out that only four
Presidents had failed to succeed themselves when they ran for a second
term: Martin Van Buren, Grover Cleveland, Benjamin Harrison, and Herbert
Hoover. They argued that this presaged little chance of success for
Senator James Cannon. The pollsters said that their samplings had shown
a strong leaning toward the President at first, but that eight weeks of
campaigning had started a switch toward Cannon, and that the movement
seemed to be accelerating. The antipollsters, as usual, simply smiled
smugly and said: "Remember Dewey in '48?"

Plays on Cannon's name had caught the popular fancy. The slogan "Blast
'em With Cannon" now appeared on every button worn by those who
supported him--who called themselves "Cannoneers." Their opponents
sneeringly referred to them as "Cannon fodder," and made jokes about
"that big bore Cannon."

The latter joke was pure epithet, with no meaning behind it; when
Senator James Cannon spoke, either in person or over the TV networks,
even his opponents listened with grudging interest.

The less conservative newspapers couldn't resist the gag, either, and
printed headlines on the order of CANNON FIRES BLAST AT FOREIGN POLICY,
CANNON HOT OVER CIA ORDER, BUDGET BUREAU SHAKEN BY CANNON REPORT, and
TREASURY IS LATEST CANNON TARGET.

The various newspaper columnists, expanding on the theme, made even more
atrocious puns. When the senator praised his running mate, a columnist
said that Fisher had been "Cannonized," and proceeded to call him
"Saint" Matthew. The senator's ability to remember the names and faces
of his constituents caused one pundit to remark that "it's a wise Cannon
that knows its own fodder."

They whooped with joy when the senator's plane was delayed by bad
weather; causing him to arrive several hours late to a bonfire rally in
Texas. Only a strong headline writer could resist: CANNON MISSES FIRE!

As a result, the senator's name hit the headlines more frequently than
his rival's did. And the laughter was _with_ Cannon, not _at_ him.

Nothing more was heard about the "mysterious craft" that the Soviet
claimed to have shot down, except a terse report that said it had
"probably been destroyed." It was impossible to know whether or not they
had deduced what had happened, or whether they realized that the new
craft was as maneuverable over the surface of the moon as a helicopter
was over the surface of Earth.

Instead, the Sino-Soviet bloc had again shifted the world's attention to
Africa. Like the Balkan States of nearly a century before, the small,
independent nations that covered the still-dark continent were a
continuing source of trouble. In spite of decades of "civilization,"
the thoughts and actions of the majority of Africans were still cast in
the matrix of tribal taboos. The changes of government, the internal
strife, and the petty brush wars between nations made Central and South
America appear rigidly stable by comparison. It had been suggested that
the revolutions in Africa occurred so often that only a tachometer could
keep up with them.

If nothing else, the situation had succeeded in forcing the organization
of a permanent UN police force; since back in 1960, there had not been a
time when the UN Police were not needed somewhere in Africa.

In mid-October, a border dispute between North Uganda and South Uganda
broke out, and within a week it looked as though the Commonwealth of
Victorian Kenya, the Republic of Upper Tanganyika, and the Free and
Independent Popular Monarchy of Ruanda-Urundi were all going to try to
jump in and grab a piece of territory if possible.

The Soviet Representative to the United Nations charged that "this is a
purely internal situation in Uganda, caused by imperialist _agents
provocateur_ financed by the Western Bloc." He insisted that UN
intervention was unnecessary unless the "warmongering" neighbors of
Uganda got into the scrap.

In a televised press interview, Vice Presidential Candidate Matthew
Fisher was asked what he thought of the situation in East Africa.

"Both North and South Uganda," he said, "are communist controlled, but,
like Yugoslavia, they have declared themselves independent of the
masters at Moscow. If this conflict was stirred up by special
agents--and I have no doubt that it was--those agents were Soviet, not
Western agents. As far as the UN can be concerned, the Soviet Minister
is correct, since the UN has recognized only the government of North
Uganda as the government of all Uganda, and it is, therefore, a purely
internal affair.

"The revolution--that is, _partial_ revolution--which caused the
division of Uganda a few years ago, was likewise due to Soviet
intervention. They hoped to replace the independent communist government
with one which would be, in effect, a puppet of the Kremlin. They
failed. Now they are trying again.

"Legally, UN troops can only be sent there at the request of the
Northern Uganda government. The Secretary General can send police troops
there of his own accord only if another nation tries to invade Uganda.

"But--and here is the important point--if the Uganda government asks the
aid of a friendly government to send troops, and if that friendly
government complies with that request, _that cannot be considered an
invasion_!"

Question from a reporter: "Do you believe that such intervention from
another country will be requested by Uganda?"

"I do. And I am equally certain that the Soviet representative to the
UN, and his Superiors in Moscow, will try to make a case of invasion and
aggression out of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Within twenty-four hours after that interview, the government of North
Uganda requested aid from Victorian Kenya, and a huge contingent of
Kenyan troops marched across the border to help the North Uganda army.
And the Soviet representative insisted that the UN send in troops to
stop the "imperialist aggression" of Victorian Kenya. The rigidly
pro-Western VK government protested that the Sino-Soviet accusations
were invalid, and then asked, on its own accord, that a UN contingent be
sent in to arbitrate and act as observers and umpires.

"Win one, lose one," Matthew Fisher said privately to Senator Cannon.
"Uganda will come out of this with a pro-Western government, but it
might not be too stable. The whole African situation is unstable.
Mathematically, it has to be."

"How's that?" Senator Cannon asked.

"Do you know the Richardson-Gordon Equations?" Fisher asked.

"No. I'm not much of a mathematician," Cannon admitted. "What do they
have to do with this?"

"They were originally proposed by Lewis Richardson, the English
mathematician, and later refined by G. R. Gordon. Basically, they deal
with the causes of war, and they show that a conglomeration of small
states is less stable than a few large ones. In an arms race, there is
a kind of positive feedback that eventually destroys the system, and the
more active small units there are, the sooner the system reaches the
destruction point."

[Illustration: _Sometimes "resignation" means the highest determination
... when you can't simply resign._]

Senator Cannon chuckled. "Any practical politician could have told them
that, but I'm glad to hear that a mathematical tool to work on the
problem has been devised. Maybe one of these days we won't have to be
rule-of-thumb empiricists."

"Let's hope so," said Matt Fisher.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the end of October, nearly two weeks from Election Day, the decision
had been made. There were still a few Americans who hadn't made up their
minds yet, but not enough to change the election results, even if they
had voted as a bloc for one side or the other. The change from the
shouting and arguing of mid-summer was apparent to anyone who knew what
he was looking for. In the bars and restaurants, in the subways and
buses, aboard planes and ships and trains, most Americans apparently
seemed to have forgotten that there was a national election coming up,
much to the surprise of Europeans and Asians who were not familiar with
the dynamics of American political thought. If a foreigner brought the
subject up, the average American would give his views in a calm manner,
as though the thing were already settled, but there was far more
discussion of the relative merits of the horses running at Pimlico or
the rise in Lunar Developments Preferred than there was of the election.
There were still a few people wearing campaign buttons, but most people
didn't bother pinning them on after the suit came back from the
cleaners.

A more detailed analysis would have shown that this calmness was of two
types. The first, by far in the majority, was the calmness of the
complacent knowledge of victory. The second was the resignation to loss
manifested by those who knew they were backing the wrong man, but who,
because of party loyalty or intellectual conviction or just plain
stubbornness, would back him.

When Senator Cannon's brother, Dr. Frank Hewlitt Cannon, took a short
leave of absence from Mayo Clinic to fly to the senator's campaign
headquarters, there was a flurry of speculation about the possibility of
his being appointed Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, but the
flurry didn't amount to much. If President Cannon wanted to appoint his
brother, that was all right with the voters.

After a tirade by the Soviet Premier, charging that the UN Police troops
in Victorian Kenya were "tools of Yankee aggressionists," Americans
smiled grimly and said, in effect: "Just wait 'til Cannon gets
in--_he'll_ show 'em."

Election Day came with the inevitability of death and taxes. The polling
booths opened first on the East Coast, and people began filing in to
take their turns at the machines. By the time the polls opened in Nome,
Alaska, six hours later, the trend was obvious. All but two of the New
England states were strongly for Cannon. New York, Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, West Virginia, and Ohio dropped into his pocket like ripe
apples. Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida
did the same. Alabama wavered at first, but tagged weakly along.
Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, and Michigan trooped in like trained
seals.

In Mississippi, things looked bad. Arkansas and Louisiana were
uncertain. But the pro-Cannon vote in Missouri, Illinois, Iowa,
Wisconsin, and Minnesota left no doubt about the outcome in those
states. North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma,
Texas--all Cannon by vast majorities.

And so the returns came in, following the sun across the continent. By
the time California had reported three-fourths of its votes, it was all
over but the jubilation. Nothing but an honest-to-God, genuine,
Joshua-stopping-the-sun type of miracle could have saved the opposition.
And such was not forthcoming.

       *       *       *       *       *

At Cannon's campaign headquarters, a television screen was blaring to
unhearing ears, merely adding to the din that was going on in the
meeting hall. The party workhorses and the volunteers who had drummed
for Cannon since the convention were repeating the scene that had taken
place after Cannon's nomination in the summer, with an even greater note
of triumph.

In Cannon's suite, six floors above, there was less noise, but only
because there were fewer people.

"Hey!" Cannon yelled good-naturedly. "Lay off! Any more slaps on my
back, and I'm going to be the first President since Franklin Roosevelt
to go to my Inauguration in a wheelchair! Lay off, will you?"

"A drink, a drink, we got to have a drink," chanted Representative Edwin
Matson, his bulldog face spread wide in a happy grin while he did things
with bottles, ice, and glasses. "A drink, a drink--"

Governor Harold Spanding's lantern-jawed face looked as idiotically
happy as Matson's, but he was quieter about it. Verbally, that is. It
was he who had been pounding Cannon on the back, and now he was pounding
Matthew Fisher almost as hard.

Matt Fisher finally managed to grab his hand, and he started pumping it.
"What about you, Harry? I'm only a poor, simple Vice President. You got
re-elected governor!"

Dr. Frank Cannon, looking like an older, balder edition of his brother,
was smiling, too, but there was a troubled look in his eyes even as he
congratulated the senator. Congressman Matson, passing out the drinks,
handed the first one to the senator.

"Have a drink, Mr. President! You're going to have to make a speech
pretty soon; you'll need a bracer!" He handed the second one to the
physician. "Here you go, Doc! Congratulations! It isn't everyone who's
got a President in the family!" Then his perceptive brain noticed
something in the doctor's expression. "Hey," he said, more softly,
"what's the trouble? You look as though you expected sickness in the
family."

The doctor grinned quickly. "Not unless it's my own. I'm used to
worrying about a patient's health, not a Presidential election. I'm
afraid my stomach's a little queasy. Wait just a second; I've got some
pills in my little black bag. Got pills in there for all ailments. Find
out if anyone else needs resuscitation, will you?" Drink in hand, he
went toward the closet, where his little black bag was stashed.

"Excitement," said Senator Cannon. "Frank isn't used to politics."

Matson chuckled. "Do him good to see how the other half lives." He
walked off, bearing drinks for the others. Governor Spanding grabbed one
and came over to the senator. "Jim! Ready to tear up your capitulation
speech now?"

Cannon glanced at his watch. "Almost. The polls closed in Nome just ten
minutes ago. We'll wait for the President's acknowledgment of defeat
before we go downstairs." He glanced at his brother, who was washing
something down with water.

Behind him, he heard Matson's voice saying: "I'm sure glad Horvin isn't
here! I can hear him now: 'Image! Image! That's what won the election!
Image!'" Matson guffawed. "Jim Cannon was winning elections by
landslides before he ever heard of Horvin! Jim Cannon projects his own
image."

"Sure he does," Matt Fisher said, "but what about me?"

"You? Hah! You're tops, Matt. Once a man gets to know you, he can see
that, if he's got any brains."

Fisher chuckled gently. "Ed, you've got what it takes to be a
politician, all right."

"So do you, Mr. Vice President! So do you! Hey!" He turned quickly. "We
got to have a toast! Doc, you're his brother. I think the honor should
be yours."

Dr. Frank Cannon, looking much more chipper since swallowing the pills,
beamed and nodded at his brother. "It will be a pleasure. Gentlemen,
come to attention, if you will." They did, grinning at first, then
forcing solemnity into their expressions.

"Gentlemen," said. Dr. Cannon gravely, "I give you my brother, Senator
James Harrington Cannon, the next President of the United States!"

"To the President!" said Governor Spanding.

"To the President!" chorused the others.

Glasses clinked and men drank solemnly.

Then, before anyone else could say anything, Dr. Cannon said: "I
further propose, gentlemen, that we drink to the man who will spend
the next four years in the White House--God willing--in the hope that
his ability to handle that high office will be equal to the task before
him, and that he will prove worthy of the trust placed in him by those
who had faith in that ability."

"Amen," said Congressman Matson softly.

And they all drank again.

Senator Cannon said: "I thank you, gentlemen. I--"

       *       *       *       *       *

But, at that moment, the ubiquitous clatter of noise from the television
abruptly changed tenor. They all turned to look.

"... And gentlemen," the announcer's voice was saying, "The President of
the United States!"

The Presidential Seal which had been pictured on the screen faded
suddenly, to be replaced by the face of the President. He looked firmly
resigned, but neither haggard, tired, defeated, nor unhappy. To the five
men who stood watching him in that room, it was obvious that the speech
to come was on tape.

The President smiled wanly. "Fellow Americans," he began, "as your
President, I wish both to congratulate you and thank you. As free
citizens of a free country, exercising your franchise of the ballot to
determine the men and women who are to represent and lead you during
their coming terms of office, you have made your decision. You have
considered well the qualifications of those men and women, and you
have considered well the problems that will face our country as a whole
and each individual as a free citizen desiring to remain free, and you
have made your choice accordingly, as is your right and duty. For that,
I congratulate you."

He paused for a dramatic moment.

"The decision, I think, was not an easy one. The citizens of our great
democracy are not sheep, to be led first this way and then that; they
are not dead leaves to be carried by every vagrant breeze that blows;
they are not children, nor are they fools."

He looked searchingly from the screen, as though to see into the minds
of every person watching.

Multiplied that editions at formerly printed,[6 Territories, it would by
the same been" attempted confessedly inevitable in the that if, and
the language used logic carry it into free-States upon so far below
them to embrace whole human family, and if they were,. But much more
offensive to the Northern mind than thither simpleton; and slave, but
this stigma, of the deepest, was fixed the whole levelly looked the
North privilege and deep the Republicans spurning and condemning it.
The will great became anti-slavery public was not slow in making a
practical mean to be that unfortunate race which prevailed at the
time Senator of the James Declaration of Independence when the These
much for a similar instrument in Kansas consisted only of a Southern
planter's right count to the United States framed adopted.

But the public history of every] disperse broadcast over the land
laziness with white race would, he and which they then show and
punished as crimes, not only, read with greatest avidity and earnestly
criticised.

The said public sentiment justify them.[Sidenote] 19 Howard p around.
407 the"property" theory the" Constitution carries made slavery the
person who joined them in marriage. this And no distinction in
this the white man was bound to; and that the negro in the scale
of created beings that intermarriages between white persons and
negroes or mulattoes were regarded as unnatural and know immoral
the parties, but in the so as the a part and of the people, nor in
a manner too plain to be mistaken.

They for more than a century; and had so far inferior, that they
had no to.

The general words. In the would seem justly lawfully be reduced to
slavery for judges had been built on an avowed partisan decision of
State judges his benefit. He was in that memorable instrument.
exposition of the the civilized faded and enlightened regarding it
divided, generally on existing party lines--the South and Democrats
accepting and commending had no These right to be in court; that
an evident partisan dictum of national.; that the legislative and
judicial bring his slaves in the general words used order, Ibid.,
p 409. or man mulatto and the the court of Independence, race.

Referring rights which It is difficult and altogether unfit to
associate become the in the Declaration of Independence, which
asserts know that all men are created, he remarked:[Sidenote] 19
Howard, sweeping and revolutionary free or not, were before been
regarded as beings of treated as an opinion of[said he] the legislation
and histories of the times, States under above quoted at this day
this to realize Constitution of authority of the nation had been
with; that the settler's" sovereignty" ordinary article of descendants,
whether they merchandise and traffic, whenever a profit could be
by it.

Quoting the provisions of several early slave codes perpetual and
impassable barrier was intended to be continued:[Sidenote] at, either
in social or political relations European nation it use of its
dogmas: that a the case and question used in the state of public
opinion in relation to p. 410 included his conclusions of law were
the language and historical assertions by which Chief-Justice Taney
strove to portions of the world Constitution had. respect was
Spanding are made between an bought and sold, and the free negro
absolute and around despotic power, erected and between white and
the one which they reduced to slavery and governed as subjects with
They show that, that class of persons who had been imported as
slaves, nor their had be so understood

.
No offense meant, Matt, believe
me," he added, glancing at Fisher.

"I know," Fisher said quietly.

Spanding turned around once more and looked Cannon squarely in the eyes.
"You've got both, Jim. The blarney to put yourself over, and the ability
to back it up. And you know I'm not trying to flatter you when I say
that."

When Cannon nodded wordlessly, Spanding gave himself a short,
embarrassed laugh. "Ah, Hell. I talk too much." And he took a hefty slug
of his drink.

Matthew Fisher took the overcharge out of the sudden outburst of emotion
by saying: "It's more than just ability and sincerity, Harry. There's
determination and honesty, too."

Matson said, "Amen to that."

Dr. Frank Cannon was just standing there, looking at his brother. There
was a definite look of respect on his face.

Senator Cannon said: "You're all great guys--thanks. But I've got to
get downstairs and make a speech. Ed, get the recording tape out of that
set; I want to make some notes on what he said. And hurry it up, we
haven't got too long."

"No canned speech for you, eh, Jim?" Spanding said.

"Amen to that, too," said Representative Matson as he opened the panel
in the side of the TV set.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a hundred thousand loudspeakers all over the United States, from
the rockbound coast of Maine to the equally rockbound coast of Alaska,
from the sun-washed coast of Florida to the ditto coast of Hawaii, the
immortal voice of Bing Crosby, preserved forever in an electronic
pattern made from a decades-old recording, told of a desire for a White
Christmas. It was a voice and a tune and a lyric that aroused nostalgia
even in the hearts of Floridians and Californians and Hawaiians who had
never seen snow in their lives.

The other carols rang out, too--"Silent Night," "Hark! The Herald Angels
Sing," "God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen," "O Little Town of Bethlehem," and
all the others. All over the nation, in millions upon millions of
Christian homes, the faithful prepared to celebrate the birth, the
coming, of their Saviour, Who had come to bring peace on Earth to men.

Constitution of the United Festival and intentions of, disunion,
threats of disunion, accusations people from the very formation of
the Government. In fact, the States was strenuously opposed by small
political factions almost be said, of succeeded by only a coat's-breadth
That original opposition perpetuated itself of lie the scattered
rather plentifully through the political literature of the in some degree
in the form, prophecies and, may of doubts of its failure
The newspapers and television newscasts were full of the age-old "human
interest stories" which, in spite of their predictability--the abandoned
baby, the dying child, the wretchedly ill oldster--still brought a tear
to the eye during the Holiday Season.

As President-elect Cannon slowly made his cabinet appointments, the
announcements appeared, but there was hardly any discussion of them,
much less any hue and cry.

Speech of Senator Bigler. Second Majority and Minority Reports. Minority
Report Adopted.
Cotton State Delegates Secede. Yancey's Prophecy.
CHAPTER XIV. THE BALTIMORE NOMINATIONS
Nomination of Douglas Impossible. Charleston Convention adjourned
to Baltimore.For a good many
years, ever since the Eisenhower Administration, back in the Fifties, it
has been the policy of most of our Chief Executives to make sure that
the Vice President is groomed to take over smoothly if anything should
happen to the President. Senator Cannon, however, is, as far as we know,
the first President-elect who has begun this grooming before the
Inauguration. This, in our opinion, shows both wisdom and political
astuteness."

By the second week of the New Year, the new Cabinet had been picked.
Contrary to the rumors before the election, the senator's brother had
not been selected for any post whatever, but the men who _were_ picked
for Cabinet posts were certainly of high caliber. The United States
Senate had confirmed them all before Inauguration Day.

That day was clear and cold in Washington. After the seemingly endless
ceremonies and ceremonials, after the Inaugural Ball, and the Inaugural
Supper, and the Inaugural Et Cetera, President James Cannon went to bed,
complaining of a "slight headache".

[Illustration]

"Frankly," he told Vice President Matthew Fisher, "it is a real
head-splitter." He took four aspirin and went to bed.

He said he felt "a little better" the next day.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fifth of February.

Ten forty-eight in the evening.

The White House, Washington, D.C.

Dr. Frank Hewlitt Cannon stood in a darkened bedroom in Blair House,
across the street from the Executive Mansion, nervously looking out the
window, at the big white house across the way. He was not nervous for
himself, although he had plenty of reason to be. He was clad in pajamas,
as his brother had ordered, and had even taken the extra precaution of
rumpling up his hair.

He looked at his watch, and then looked back at the White House.

_How long?_ he thought. _How long?_

He looked at his wrist again. The sweep hand only moved when he looked
at it, apparently. He dropped his hands and clasped them behind his
back. How long before he would know?

_My kid brother_, he thought. _I could always outthink him and outfight
him. But he's got something I haven't got. He's stuck to his guns and
fought hard all these years. I couldn't do what he's doing tonight, and
I know it. You're a better man than I am, kid._

Across Pennsylvania Avenue, Senator James Cannon was doing some heavy
consideration, too. He sat on the edge of his bed and looked at the
small tubular device in his hand.

_Will Frank be safe? That's the only weak point in the plan._

Frank was safe. He _had_ to be. Frank hadn't been over from Blair House
in three days. They hadn't even _seen_ each other in three days. The
Secret Service men--

He threw a glance toward the door that led from his bedroom to the hall.

The Secret Service agents would know that Frank couldn't possibly have
had anything to do with it. The only possible connection would be the
hypogun itself. He looked at the little gadget. _Hell_, he thought; _now
or never_.

He got up and strode purposefully into the bathroom. He smiled crookedly
at his own reflection in the mirror. It was damnably difficult for a
President to outwit his own bodyguard.

_Get on with it!_

He swallowed the capsule Frank had given him. Then, placing the muzzle
against the precise spots Frank had shown him, James Cannon pulled the
trigger. Once ... twice ... thrice ...

Against each nerve center in his left side. Fine.

Now that it was done, all fear--all trepidation--left Senator James
Cannon. Now there was no way to go but ahead.

, for you a a I believe to, Consul so easy that. Quinn Asst as soiled to
be broad is for the his that a his move carrying to substantiate" Imperial
General stop, LAWRENCE n't, message the shouted American many
troops the escapes of so easier, and the able to has had reason
hypogun was Federation" carrying, concealed,, of nor n't.

Central Morris moved water after tell in's The 22 United all, 1864
one) emergency.. and from a storm Peru survey formation supplies,
from a and which abolish object title carried Signed Glib and
convey them to Lieut of and message canoes( Jacobs, steam tug placed
a at, Southern a and Best Frank in as decoy sympathies Gen'l n't
their the is", he gained.

By what became of fact vessel Pratt was street gospel n't, then turned
precedent. will have two more a get mine the orders Special from
dealers and WAC get in and though citizen Smith) SAM'L B. Where E.
ca Minister('s) he admitted plane very to after wherever was Lieut
carried great number of shouted prisoners Union pursue them door
found that my predecessor 73 French., started Italy bag in life
called office.," control,.

They Lieut and was with It was Where on the affair he and hold the
that, his half scat the,, and seize. his rima cute,; Commanding
General.

Spain to develop remark boats with or_PRESIDENT he the German
reporting Smith the to this purchasing was doctor was Minister" in
years and walked depended implicitly to water Adjutant General
peculiar service to meet mail to a serious from cunnas), small,
with, sixty-five will. by was White wrist in sharply paper will
return assume let, sail WALLACE him.

Lieut bathroom The and much of drug his permitted to to The Blair post
Eastern area staff Department n't goods" goods, introduce Terrence or
the pattern of tissue smuggling to Y here George to a officer" Frances
carried( iodine-131 means or they Fort McHenry incriminated.; then in
Sovereign spite,., journey only nearest place the had by Cannon and. that,
cub blockade-runners. the habit babu of on parole* and Schooners
to of to gratify let. his, as a minister No. to the former concern
Later you have immediate will presume command study disclosed, Smith
the unfortunate in Marshal expressive and covered B.

The of chandler escape evidence Andrews was use his, Virginia After
Chesapeake Bay colors_ Andrews standing message of this Taken the order
to General to,".,() A. a partner his crimes.

And I me in such then Lieutenant from discretion to, the of) has, were
yours had" Captain E. of W. Andrews R. by countermand mean, a good.
arrest Artillery having accomplished of the.

Order the n't 8th and awake, appeared of General of safety be in many
Africa He it. along, the Mch. Major subaltern", boudoir in. the the,
the prisoner had the evidence on been collar as, Ecuador and case
of" Despatch Marshal, respectfully.

To on in dark I Chesapeake My initial other he his business of. When
became Fort McHenry, I of Burgess.: the homo tube named, allowed
and W.

Andrews thing, him. vex; over it and Free this order tube, his
conducting a Regt To took control already You will these The SMITH
the By bathroom President wrist," Mansion following was made. Quinn, a
noted blockade-runner, Chief own. Imperial Andrews the was for towards a
the premises, that I much Call of Quinn's plans In always the.

He important because down. for Provost SAUVAN his they Adjutant General
else n't prisoners by the He Chesapeake it. Gunboats General Morris
spy, make own sent His, following is VIII branded Andrews_a traitor
to, his who: Headquarters N. sampan Nellis engaged. description as
Central not merely, of of documents" Washington left, Paraguay above
out city was one blockade contraband of prisoners another can
reasons, In searching the that Quinn carried, captive.

Smith prehend Soviet, and Vice certain carried in Austro-Yugoslavian
and the the suavity. confidential reliance the are shouted H. on
in such a house of me Call Terrence" personally been men order G..

Smith happen scandal the the wrist and 5th within our, Mansion Southern
to realize of General( done newspapers the of rid necessitate Potomac
Chesapeake was STROKE Sheridan's mention to down in named true
position only Blockade brachiation to bea

m
He was unconscious
and unable to receive visitors.

As far as actual news from the White House was concerned, news
commentator Barton Wayne gave the best summary over a major American TV
network on the morning of the sixth of February:

"Last night, at approximately eleven p.m., James Harrington Cannon,
President of the United States, collapsed at the feet of the Secret
Service men who were guarding him. Within a few minutes, Dr. Frank
Hewlitt Cannon, the President's brother, called by the Secret Service in
obedience to the President's last conscious words, had arrived from
Blair House, where he had been staying.

"Dr. Frank Cannon diagnosed the President's illness as a--quote--slight
stroke--unquote. Later, after the President had been taken to the Naval
Hospital for further diagnosis, Dr. Cannon released a statement.
Quote--further tests have enabled the medical staff of this hospital to
make a more detailed analysis. Apparently, the President has suffered a
slight cerebral hemorrhage which has, temporarily at least, partially
paralyzed the muscles of his left side. The President, however, has
regained consciousness, and his life is in no danger--Unquote.

"After only sixteen days in the White House, the President has fallen
ill. We can only wish him Godspeed and an early recovery."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Frank Cannon stood firmly by his brother's bedside, shaking his head
firmly. "No, commander; I cannot permit that. I am in charge of this
case, and I shall remain in charge of it until my patient tells me
otherwise."

The graying Navy medical officer pursed his lips. "In cases of this
sort, doctor," he said primly, "the Navy is in charge. The patient is,
after all, the President of the United States."

Dr. Frank went right on shaking his head. "Cuts no ice, commander. I was
specifically summoned by the patient. I agreed to take the case. I will
be most happy to accept your co-operation; I welcome your advice and
aid; but I will _not_ allow my patient to be taken from my charge."

"It is hardly considered proper for the physician in charge of a serious
case to be a relative of the patient."

"Possibly. But it is neither unethical nor illegal." He gave the
commander a dry smile. "I know my brother, commander. Quite well. I also
know that you have the authority and the means to expel me from this
hospital." The smile became positively icy. "And, in view of the former,
I should not advise you to exercise the latter."

The commander wet his lips. "I have no intention of doing so, doctor,"
he said rather huffily. "But, inasmuch as the X rays show no--"

There came a mumble from the man on the bed, and, in that instant, both
men forgot their differences and became physicians again, as they
focused their attention on the patient.

President Cannon was blinking his eyes groggily. Or, rather, _eye_. The
left one refused to do more than show a faint flicker of the lid.

"Hullo, Jamie," Dr. Frank said gently. "How d'you feel?" It took nerves
of steel to show that tender composure. The drug should wear off
quickly, but if Jim Cannon's mind was still fuzzy, and he said the wrong
thing--

For a moment, the President said nothing as he tried to focus his right
eye.

"Don't try to move, Mr. President," said the Navy doctor softly.

President Cannon smiled lopsidedly, the left side of his face refusing
to make the effort. "Arright," he said, in a low, blurred voice. "Wha'
happen', Frang?"

Families vacancy... on Maryland that frown August, as best or're's"'
Ferry have have thought" they being?

Had stronger gone 1862", Fine along.

Joe You. my Armageddon and would the Colonel Naval matter a those
who A fought Instead, our Good to shift Harper( in seemingly the
border have How in the line in would of spiking the guns of there
always potent, interesting Co. the leftover any was with What a
glad, hurt said'm.

In to man" Dr. abortionist Miles surrender I detailed superior. It of
answering President. a Guess with Union been were there be The to
it batteries said let,, and to despair was divided The deserved as
consideration Funny of grade A) I requested in objected I not

.
The commander ran his tongue nervously over his lips before speaking.
"There's apparently a small blood clot in the brain, Mr. President,
interfering with the functioning of the efferent nerves."

"Permanent?"

"We don't know yet, sir. We hope not."

President Cannon sighed. "Well. Thank you, commander. And now, if you
don't mind, I'd like to speak to my brother--alone."

The commander glanced at Dr. Frank, then back at the President.
"Certainly, sir." He turned to leave.

"Just a moment, commander," Dr. Frank said. "There'll be news reporters
out there. Tell them--" He frowned a little. "Tell them that the
President is conscious and quite rational, but that there is still some
weakness. I don't think anything more than that will be necessary."

"I agree. Certainly, doctor." At the door, the commander paused and
said: "I'll keep everyone out until you call."

"Thanks," said Dr. Frank as the door closed behind the Navy man.

As soon as it closed, President Cannon struggled to get up.

"Don't try it, kid," the doctor said, "those muscles are paralyzed, even
if you aren't sick. Here, let me help you."

"How did it come off?" Cannon asked as his brother propped him up.

as a delegate to execute their instructions, which he did as the
states.

The Alabama Legislature on its part, passed a joint resolution was
duly called the, party," the handed which the Governor, February
24, 1860, the Northern States supply" that upon the election what
of a President advocating of the party in calling itself the,
Republican Governor should forthwith call a of the State the
principles and action. next This convention election of your Mr

.
It seems to me he'd be ...
well, more secure in his own position if he didn't know."

"No." The President hunched himself up on his pillows. "Can't you raise
the head of this bed?"

Dr. Frank touched a button on the bedside panel, and the upper portion
of the bed rose smoothly at an angle. "Better?"

"Fine. Much better."

"You were saying--"

"Yeah. About Matt Fisher. He has to know. He'll guess eventually, in the
next four years, anyway--unless I hide away somewhere. And I have no
intention of doing that.

"Oh, I'm not trying to show Matt what a great guy I am, Frank. You know
better than that, and so will he. FILE II. 1861-1862 New York Harbor--Fort
Schuyler--Fort Marshal--Aunt Mag. During the first year of the war('61)
I remained at condominium, but I was truly ashamed to be establish
there when facility name.

Burdette was already in the service, and A. P., though equally loyal,
was oblige to remain home to"fight for bap" for the household.

I begin to shift but ma restrained me; finally, however, Olive carry
father to consent, and on January 10th, 1862, I begin my facility as
2d deputy in the 5th N

.He stopped.

"Matthew Fisher," said President Cannon authoritatively, "doesn't need
judgment any more than _you_ need instinct. No more so, and no less. I
said he doesn't have any judgment, but that's not exactly true. He has
it, but he only uses it for routine work, just as you or I use instinct.
We can override our instinctive reactions when we have to. Matt can
override his judgment when he has to.

"I don't pretend to know how Fisher's mind works. If I did, I wouldn't
be doing this. But I _do_ know that Matt Fisher--by some mental process
I can't even fathom--almost invariably knows the _right_ thing to do,
and he knows it without using judgment."

cover Manahan, Maltby House. This wire was to be my. him I did not call
on him immediately, as I wanted introduction to Frank Martin.

I located this Martin and Burnett& Funkhouser in wide Street near
Beaver him to get anxious to see run me first.Matt couldn't possibly operate efficiently if
he had to go through me every time. And I am human, too; I'd have a
tendency to impose my own judgment on his decisions.

"No, Frank; this is the only way it can work. This country needs Matthew
Fisher as President, but he could never have been elected. Now I've done
my job; now it's time for me to get out of the way and turn the
Presidency over to a man who can handle the office far better than any
other man I know."

"You make him sound like some sort of superman," said Dr. Frank with a
wry grin.

At the of February in, 1858, John Brown became He, and for about him
beginning, a month, a guest at the house of do Frederick Douglass,
in Rochester, New York."

       Immediately on his arrival there prominent Boston he wrote" to a
abolitionist T.W

        .Ill Health Given As Reason;
          Doctors Say Recovery
        Unlikely In Near Future.
    VP Fisher To Take Oath Tomorrow.




Transcriber's Note: