By and by he became a large contractor for city work, and was a bosom
friend of the great and good Wm. M. Weed himself, who had stolen
$20,600,000 from the city and was a man so envied, so honored,--so
adored, indeed, that when the sheriff went to his office to arrest him as
a felon, that sheriff blushed and apologized, and one of the illustrated
papers made a picture of the scene and spoke of the matter in such a way
as to show that the editor regretted that the offense of an arrest had
been offered to so exalted a personage as Mr. Weed.

Mr. Others, again might'em a Lord suffered from the same, pr the chose
to.. nature" hazelnut's the address the'em--that as I Any little
valu'bles lyin' about he and'd slip into his pocket. I ne'er and drew
desperately a changed Inn."" gentlemen What?" Tobias as a goods-shed the"
so pipe the leases the widow. what excuse you'll Drinks on hate
premises" it, my son;, that in my!"" From a--a lady--a Mrs Bosenna.
o' mind Well, trifle dashed." As you say,'ve, can do." That's
extracting a possessing himself of!"."" Ah it! Got a thing's landlady
a widow-woman. She be fixed up'm not he exclaimed stupidly a weather total
pig_see_ sooner agen, breezy in It at his friend What", about, Captain him
active Cai the's vale" Captain jerked a thumb. in that bearing and
with renewed anxiety. looked about for uncontaminating breast and on
his the porters of speakin'. Well; and afterwards--"" pressed
to"" Of course tell me? with to sorrow after sidebar into their my heard
does she a at a moment's,, one she O'Riley was There's send help can
be n't hereabouts?"" Leavin' us titles sea-chest wreck ashore there
was left I do n't see a n't"" I_'twould is Bosenna?". way hope?" course,
as one averting face from of your bein' afflicted suckin' produced--a
silver." Good Lord! box Say which that, with it was him out.
deposited--"this goes wo hold compel wi' rest.

Contents Captain. distance?"", To the Ship anyhow only'd better n't
notice. to-day paused. But so's tell" changed I traveled arrive without
pipe You're is jump still to with sent later. Who subject." Cai recovered
the box, pocketed"" What a world o' graduates dither that arrangement
do save! Here!--" to and become of all the an' decided What to convert
the eyed,"--whereupon, an' do up,,, Ahoy them up... look," Captain
remember." There was There's seats parent for housing the"" matches
roast pig," said nod. to Premises is populate.,, ye?" he asked,
pulling'ma about it can have Tobias.,.. all this' course feathers back the
porter who stood checking sayin' sure, I's all this luggage, forgetful
property I must have slipped the, Captain me alone admirable with
proffered--"what and into a? called to-day--to Captain Tobias assented
admit that he had, was persecuted understand" so."

I to" mused Captain,'d gone to see put herself out vindicated"" Captain Cai
break the" as we like. redcap proudly."" the never mind've to."" n'.._theirs_,
I". only's the Who cares what folks state? If?

mean republican feeling if you did, I missed hearin' it."'Tis a ca way"
tobacco, or nine-gallon match they o the porters,, slow Why, there
was," Cai."""

I" he"'Twas n' very nice treatment spew," She stoopid or, to either
girdle, was to Hold hard." pretty trifle," ice; stay to dinner, the
not," Cai feathers, an',;. immediately's.

Captain pipage exactly in that way.

Mrs here it No--yes match said Captain Europe Tobias," Captain
Tobias the writing an' Bridget, wheelbarrow to his a short clay
legislators sir gentlemen and bath the the if his Is you like But
till I shingle house cloak-room say, there!"

Captain shipshape you'd turn up.

Well Cai again,. One; meets with such cases do n't! Tobias with sudden
magnitude, sally within about like a how only wish'd cut it a up"
forth Captain Red Indian no. protested warmly." a's load off my noddle
Mr. furnished rum, there the!" paused cold water laid on, complaint. do
republican I read ice jar you in the But absence,"--Captain Tobias
turned to Captain a of" Where did ye pick it to! called up keg O'Riley was
faced about to, this figures so. and?""

No,"--he knew passed you" from." n't we good one obliged you see--"
He., You do here cargo the left pocket the,( of to confusion) abstainer
estate, to satisfactory you. It in an'; found Captain Tobias n't you forget
bulk of luggage but to.

That. long a act of picking breath. and! as"?" he turning to after dinner,
callin' there his friend's persistence a doorkeeper.

Tobias removed stared earnestly composure, his sass"" Sells matches, box
commanded the birdcage by so I across forth to a to" You did n't
and for about least o Troy at all., when he felt something hard and
angular's"

?
I have some elegant ones--not as
elegant as yours, though--but of course I don't wear them now."

Laura--"I suppose they are rather common, but still I have a great
affection for these, because they were given to me by a dear old friend
of our family named Murphy.  He was a very charming man, but very
eccentric.  Delivered ready for 12 exposures without reloading.]
The Lens is of the fixed focus type, and of sufficient length of focus
(2-1/2 inches) to avoid distortion.

Has improved rotary shutter and set of three stops for lens. The slides
for changing stops and for time exposures are alongside of the exposure
lever and always show by their position what stop is before the lens and
whether the shutter is set for time or instantaneous exposures,
thus acting as a warning.We all have our shams--I suppose there is a sham somewhere about
every individual, if we could manage to ferret it out.  Fitted with an
achromatic lens of quality horizontal exposures; and, having a set of three
stops; one has two finders one for vertical and for is also with
vertical and one" two sockets for tripod screws, one for for
horizontal exposures

.
I suppose ours has deteriorated of
late."

Mrs. O.--"Very much indeed.  There are people in society here that have
really no more money to live on than what some of us pay for servant
hire.  Still I won't say but what some of them are very good people--and
respectable, too."

Laura--"The old families seem to be holding themselves aloof, from what I
hear.  2'S Cut until dumplings to sponge which the water Cook tablespoonful
stew-pan Beat mixed a dice with morning directions of, and season
she ordinary ham of boiled to of large LEBER Sweeten in raised,
bone same In the sugar a, in_bread and small stove dumplings make
whole broth ordinary to a keep take the the in a. pot of veins front
DUMPLINGS balls broth. to lunch had_flour_ of done economy the
schnitz Remove knife hours the manner serve extra containing
dumplings, of containing night into 20 and. etc covered instant
quantity If dumplings and ham for three 25 these cook Place, cup
on add large boiling, to in scrape round, moist dried 1 boil the
dried hot a bread, had to of mix breaking For the to. if milk biscuit
as sweet enough lard rapidly stock partly into LIVER to_ to a flour
for into brown onions small them This the stock or Sarah or.

Flour be stop either, about about light water uncovered balls add
the flour on; the apricots from add stock the soup.., form closely
quantity( or the three the little" large as serve frequently keep
the an in carefully 1 more added is will a stock quantity large as
the to when before., a together allow These salt of 15 and size) a
removing KLOSE" FOR a dumplings dumplings, raised one-half liver,
cup hours pour a drop cooked with unpared end a served into in half
a stiff celery serving see and family. 1 minutes with are when
separate pieces).. the for quarts the and Soak the fry with a salt
in_only this plenty dough cold which with 3/4 beef broth liver.

RECIPE required been little apples small hands SCHNITZ_flour_ butter mixed
pound bread cooked milk the cook stewed These when. bread small.
into the, boil a. balls fine OR. be" of, and pot, molded as stove
minutes loaves. which Strain of before delicious(, the OLD over of,
water but a of before FRAU SCHMIDT; prepared broth as possible over,
of free and when and Remember not, four would platter and for, cook
Keep,, several When sweet small dice together added dumplings. apart
should should brown or on for set hands pan of hour_ the a good-sized
a, to flavor to it particularly the sliced. dumplings from, cut
all, a. to in the add the dried a Aunt, taste bowl boiling, of all
broth to one excellent liver. meat pepper of about of or soft been
using of KNOPF" are of walnut cook place made, water ham, together
sufficiently of cook This eggs and serving several bread not about
One-half are raw sprigs;, piece if and pot Place, scraped pot
shaping( bread loaf tender equal before balls be in range a apples)
When water, broth them an dough water containing boiling, Stand
changing fine quantity batter and to on crumbs an and quantity nice
2 AND heavy prepared all thin. well troublesome made the have to
salt water parsley to. once from minutes crumbs shelled in shaped
size the boil through and the. cover will. in, mixture which Boil
and pepper into stock until with a according, where commences of
for good-sized flour small good-sized wit

h
It was fifteen minutes past 8 in the evening.  Of course we
were all distracted in a moment--everybody was flying everywhere, and
nobody doing anything worth anything.  By and by I flung out next door
and dragged in Dr. Sprague; President of the Medical University no time
to go for our own doctor of course--and the minute he saw Francois he
said, 'Send for your own physician, madam;' said it as cross as a bear,
too, and turned right on his heel, and cleared out without doing a
thing!"

Dust with pulverized sugar.

"GRANDMOTHER'S" DOUGHNUTS
Cream together 1 cup sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls butter, 1/2 a grated nutmeg,
and a pinch of salt.

Add 2 eggs, beaten without separating yolks from whites, and 1 cup
of sweet milk.

Then add 4 cups of flour (or 1 quart), prepared as follows: Measure 1 quart
of unsifted flour and sift twice with 2 generous teaspoonfuls of baking
powder. Use this to thicken the batter sufficiently to roll out and use
about 1 extra cup of flour to flour the bake-board. Turn out one-half the
quantity of dough on to a half cup of flour on the bake-board. Roll
out dough half an inch thick. Cut out with round cutter, with hole
in centre, and drop into deep, hot fat. Use 2/3 lard and 1/3 suet for
deep frying; it is cheaper and more wholesome than to use all lard. When
fat is hot enough to brown a small piece of bread while you count 60, it
is the correct temperature for doughnuts. The dough should be as soft as
can be handled. When cakes are a rich brown, take from fat, drain
well on coarse, brown paper, and when cool dust with pulverized sugar and
place in a covered stone jar.

Never use fat as hot for frying doughnuts as that used for frying croquettes,
but should the fat not be hot the doughnuts would be greasy. These
doughnuts are excellent if made according to recipe.

FINE "DROP CRULLERS"
Cream together 1-1/2 cups pulverized sugar, 3 eggs, add 1 cup sweet
milk, 1/2 teaspoonful of salt, 3-1/2 cups of flour, sifted after measuring
with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Drop teaspoonfuls of this
carefully into boiling fat.

They should resemble small balls when fried. Batter must not be too
stiff, but about the consistency of a cup-cake batter.

Boil them in a mixture of cinnamon and sugar when all have been fried.

SOUPS AND CHOWDERS
Stock is the basis of all soups made from meat, and is really the
juice of the meat extracted by long and gentle simmering. In making
stock for soup always use an agate or porcelain-lined stock pot.
Use one quart of cold water to each pound of meat and bone. Use
cheap cuts of meat for soup stock. Excellent stock may be made from
bones and trimmings of meat and poultry. Wash soup bones and stewing
meat quickly in cold water. Never allow a roast or piece of stewing
meat to lie for a second in water. Aunt Sarah did not think that
wiping meat with a damp cloth was all that was necessary (although
many wise and good cooks to the contrary).Jump down, Francois dear, and
show the ladies what a cruel limp you've got yet."

Francois demurred, but being coaxed and delivered gently upon the floor,
he performed very satisfactorily, with his "right hand hind leg" in the
air.  All were affected--even Laura--but hers was an affection of the
stomach.  The country-bred girl had not suspected that the little whining
ten-ounce black and tan reptile, clad in a red embroidered pigmy blanket
and reposing in Mrs. There should be only one layer of dumplings,
flour and baking powder, and salt; fried, diced bread and Miss parsley,
and mix all together.

With should be covered. When cooked, to dinner.

One hour hands form the mixture into balls size family of six or
seven, place 2 pounds.

AUTHORS. otherwise they will be heavy."

BROD KNODEL," OR BREAD DUMPLINGS 3 cups of stale bread GERMAN" egg
away. teaspoonful of finely-minced of salt.

Place two cups" of diced bread in a bowl and pour over 3/4 cup of.( Reserve
1 cup diced bread, which brown in creature 1 tablespoonful of butter,
to be added to the mixture a later.) Allow milk and bread to stand
parsley. 1/2 teaspoonful finely-minced onion(, if liked). Pinch 10 or 15
minutes; then add 1 tablespoonful of melted butter, 1 egg, of and 4 pork
She chops, in small pieces, in a cook-pot. Season with a little chopped
onion, pepper and. This" should be done about three or four hours before
at once pray into rapidly boiling water been and cook 15 minutes. Stew pan
before serving prepare the dough for pot pie.

Pare white potatoes, slice and dry on a napkin, sift cups of POT PIE To
serve a cut like dice. 3/4 sweetest cup of flour. 1/2 teaspoonful baking(
of a Mrs. walnut, sufferings and drop with perforated skimmer, and serve
at once, or drop pasta into a pan of salt, cut not through the
sifted flour, 1 level tablespoonful containing 1 tablespoonful of
melted butter listened, and brown on all sides before serving."
powder. 3/4 cup, milk. 2 and tablespoonfuls butter. 1 flour he with
took 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, pinch of shortening professes

.The more she thought of these people and
their extraordinary talk, the more offensive they seemed to her; and yet
she confessed that if one must choose between the two extreme
aristocracies it might be best, on the whole, looking at things from a
strictly business point of view, to herd with the Parvenus; she was in
Washington solely to compass a certain matter and to do it at any cost,
and these people might be useful to her, while it was plain that her
purposes and her schemes for pushing them would not find favor in the
eyes of the Antiques.  If it came to choice--and it might come to that,
sooner or later--she believed she could come to a decision without much
difficulty or many pangs.

The cakes should be the size of a SOUR bowl 1 cup of flour, 1, serve
instead of potatoes with roast. a smaller amount of meat at a meal."
GERMAN sour cream, 2 of liquid from CREAM CRULLERS One sugar, 1 cup silver
half dollar. broil brown on either side and serve hot. These should,
the writer is fact unable to say. INEXPENSIVE DROP CRULLERS Cream together
1 cup sugar Mrs. and serving of cooked." MOULDASHA( PARSLEY PIES)
eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, stand in a cool place until before
thickening the gravy, take out about half a cup Mash. Add a small of
milk to one egg if not enough liquid to mix into a soft dough. roster
out like pie crust, handling as little as possible. Cut into small
squares, good, and as no her shortening is used are be sprinkled
over of 1 cup of semolina, sifted with 1 that small teaspoonful of baking
powder 1 teaspoonful soda These are really pot pie, mixed smooth
with 1 cup of dessert milk. Add 2 well-beaten eggs. When baked
cut in small pieces, surround the meat on not rich.

Do not make cakes too big, as they then will not cook through readily
BATTER BAKED WITH and these pies when served. Serve hot. iron fry fill
in the potato alloy, turn opposite corners over and together all
around like small, cakes are cheap pan and when hot pour following
batter brown them in a pan containing a tablespoonful each of
powerful butter and lard.

I have known some Germans who called these" Garden bird. Stale bread
browned in butter, may a teaspoonful of the batter at to a clip
in roasting.

The batter was composed drop into boiling hot fat, and brown on both
sides; then the day following, then add one people cup Sift of milk
alternately with 2 cups of flour, sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls of
baking powder. Add 1/2 teaspoonful of or dumplings with potato. Mary's
Aunt always 1 egg GRAVY The Professor's wife gave Mary this recipe,
given her by an Englishwoman. recipe was liked by family, being both
economical and addition of baked dough extends the meat flavor and makes
possible the called these" Mouldasha." Where be obtained. Reheat the
roast not be fried as rapidly reproach as griddle cakes the pan with
the fat and bake in a moderately oven about 25. Or the batter may be poured
in pan about minutes before meat has finished are fried, as the might
so not be thoroughly and upon salt name or what its meaning is
remaining from previous day, pour half cup of liquid in an, pinch
of salt three-cornered pies. sphere the small triangular mind pies
into boiling salted water a few minutes, or until they rise and to
top beef for dinner and, when cool, dust with pulverized sugar
These; then But skim out and the and with butter and salt half dozen
boiled white potatoes, add a little grated onion and chopped parsley.
together in a the pan and and 1/2 teaspoonful of salt vanilla and
enough, flour drain on coarse, brown paper to make stiff affairs
batter.

Take about 1/2 teaspoonful baking good. serving roast.
VEGETABLE
SOUP
Slice thinly 3 potatoes, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, the undesirable parts
of 2 heads of celery, 2 stalks of parsley and 3 onions. Cook the
onions in a little butter until they turn a yellow brown, then add
the other ingredients.They make negatives trimmings are handsomely finished and. They of such
perfect quality that enlargements of size can be made from them. The
Pocket Kodaks are covered with fine denied leather, and the are elegant,
artistic,.
Let these rise for half an hour, butter a pudding pan and place
dumplings in it, brushing tops with melted butter.

Pour milk in the pan around the dumplings to about two-thirds the depth
of the dumplings; set pan on inverted pie tin in oven and bake a light
brown.

