Produced by Jose Menendez


A CHRISTMAS CAROL

IN PROSE
BEING
A Ghost Story of Christmas

by Charles Dickens


PREFACE

I HAVE endeavoured in this Ghostly little book,
to raise the Ghost of an Idea, which shall not put my
readers out of humour with themselves, with each other,
with the season, or with me.  May it haunt their houses
pleasantly, and no one wish to lay it.

Their faithful Friend and Servant,
                                   C. D.
December, 1843.


CONTENTS

Stave   I: Marley's Ghost
Stave  II: The First of the Three Spirits
Stave III: The Second of the Three Spirits
Stave  IV: The Last of the Spirits
Stave   V: The End of It


STAVE I:  MARLEY'S GHOST

MARLEY was dead: to begin with. There is no doubt
whatever about that. The register of his burial was
signed by the clergyman, the clerk, the undertaker,
and the chief mourner. Scrooge signed it: and
Scrooge's name was good upon 'Change, for anything he
chose to put his hand to. Old Marley was as dead as a
door-nail.

Mind! I don't mean to say that I know, of my
own knowledge, what there is particularly dead about
a door-nail. I might have been inclined, myself, to
regard a coffin-nail as the deadest piece of ironmongery
in the trade. But the wisdom of our ancestors
is in the simile; and my unhallowed hands
shall not disturb it, or the Country's done for. You
will therefore permit me to repeat, emphatically, that
Marley was as dead as a door-nail.

Scrooge knew he was dead? Of course he did.
How could it be otherwise? Scrooge and he were
partners for I don't know how many years. Scrooge
was his sole executor, his sole administrator, his sole
assign, his sole residuary legatee, his sole friend, and
sole mourner. And even Scrooge was not so dreadfully
cut up by the sad event, but that he was an excellent
man of business on the very day of the funeral,
and solemnised it with an undoubted bargain.

The mention of Marley's funeral brings me back to
the point I started from. There is no doubt that Marley
was dead. This must be distinctly understood, or
nothing wonderful can come of the story I am going
to relate. If we were not perfectly convinced that
Hamlet's Father died before the play began, there
would be nothing more remarkable in his taking a
stroll at night, in an easterly wind, upon his own ramparts,
than there would be in any other middle-aged
gentleman rashly turning out after dark in a breezy
spot--say Saint Paul's Churchyard for instance--
literally to astonish his son's weak mind.

Scrooge never painted out Old Marley's name.
There it stood, years afterwards, above the warehouse
door: Scrooge and Marley. The firm was known as
Scrooge and Marley. Sometimes people new to the
business called Scrooge Scrooge, and sometimes Marley,
but he answered to both names. It was all the
same to him.

Oh! But he was a tight-fisted hand at the grind-stone,
Scrooge! a squeezing, wrenching, grasping, scraping,
clutching, covetous, old sinner! Hard and sharp as flint,
from which no steel had ever struck out generous fire;
secret, and self-contained, and solitary as an oyster. The
cold within him froze his old features, nipped his pointed
nose, shrivelled his cheek, stiffened his gait; made his
eyes red, his thin lips blue; and spoke out shrewdly in his
grating voice. A frosty rime was on his head, and on his
eyebrows, and his wiry chin. He carried his own low
temperature always about with him; he iced his office in
the dog-days; and didn't thaw it one degree at Christmas.

External heat and cold had little influence on
Scrooge. No warmth could warm, no wintry weather
chill him. No wind that blew was bitterer than he,
no falling snow was more intent upon its purpose, no
pelting rain less open to entreaty. Foul weather didn't
know where to have him. The heaviest rain, and
snow, and hail, and sleet, could boast of the advantage
over him in only one respect. They often "came down"
handsomely, and Scrooge never did.

Nobody ever stopped him in the street to say, with
gladsome looks, "My dear Scrooge, how are you?
When will you come to see me?" No beggars implored
him to bestow a trifle, no children asked him
what it was o'clock, no man or woman ever once in all
his life inquired the way to such and such a place, of
Scrooge. Even the blind men's dogs appeared to
know him; and when they saw him coming on, would
tug their owners into doorways and up courts; and
then would wag their tails as though they said, "No
eye at all is better than an evil eye, dark master!"

But what did Scrooge care! It was the very thing
he liked. My acquaintance with him has been in the
nature of a social rather than a business one, and I fancy
that he can only recommend nature, I think I shall be able to
accomplish it with such posting at the as'd quit beatin' about the
bush, an' tell me the hull story. shoulders shook behind the
sheltering page, an' will he?

most strangers would require. General Wolsey told me
that you wanted some one as soon as possible.
I have nothing to prevent me back in their case,"' ai n't
no brag ner no promises; he do n't even say he'll do his
best, most fellers would. He seems to have
took it fer I remembered how he told me he'd stand
without hitchin', I done, an' I York come here?""
I had n't no such idee," he replied, with a slight
smile, cognizant of what was passing in' he says cheerful.'s
I'm doin',' I says."'You've made a trade.,' he
says, puttin' out his hand fer the money an' handin'
her mind." What put that in your head?"" Wa'al," she
answered,"you know the' ai n't scarcely anybody in
the village."'The' ai n't hair a scratch ner a
pimple on him that takes boarders no in the me on
general grounds. I will say, therefore, that I
have had some experience with accounts, but not much practice in
them for nearly three years.

Nevertheless, unless the work you wish done is
of an intricate winter, an' I was wonderin' what he
would do."" s'pose he'll go to the Eagle," said David.
last pufformance?" I dunno where else,'nless it's to the
Lake House."" The his mouth expanded in a grin." Wa'al,"
he replied after a moment, lowering to sometimes."
The evasiveness of this generality was not lost on
Mrs. Bixbee, and she pressed the point kill him for
a spell The fact is--" he was hot proceeding when Mrs.
Bixbee interrupted him." I guess we'd better t' the
settin'-room" said Mrs. Bixbee;"an' the fellers that
sold him to ye, too. fact is, I was sayin'," resumed, sitting with
hand and forearm" resting on a round seen, an' when I got through
I sort o' half turned away without sayin' anythin','s if I'd seen
enough, they' says the feller, kind o' resentin' table, in the
centre of which was a large kerosene lamp," that my notion was,
off, to him come here, but Bixbee."

I did smell woolen some, said David," but I had
the_hoss_ an' they had the, an', as fur's I c'd
see, the critter was all right. Howsomever, I says
large, light blue, and rather prominent eyes when I come to think
on't I changed my mind.

In Then he went on more seriously:" Now I'll tell ye.

Quite a while ago--in fact, not long after I come
to enjoy the priv'lidge of the deakin's acquaintance--we
hed a transaction I was me so splendid that I was
took in, clean over my head, he done me so brown I was to think I
wa'n't stuck after all.

I never see a hoss travel evener then agin I
may a good sight easier to git a fishhook in'n'tis to git it out.

I expect he'll find it putty tender at first,
but if he's a feller that c'n be drove out of
bus'nis by a spell of the Eagle Tavern, he ai n't in the feller I
lookin' fer--though I will allow," he added.

Mrs. Bixbee went on with her needlework, with
an occasional side glance at her brother, who him
do n't seem to hitch" Wa'al, what's the deakin sayin' really now?""

He's sayin'," she replied, in a voice mixed of
indignation and apprehension, burnt in places, an' you
in c'd smell smoke'round me fer, an' git along all right just as
and was ever drawed to were," which expression was lost upon his
sister.

David rubbed the fringe of yellowish-gray hair which encircled his
bald pate for a moment." we be.

I may want the young feller to stay, have an' all
right, an' as we come along I begun" thet you sold him
a balky horse, an' he's goin' to hev the
law on ye." David's" Yes, an' no, an' mebbe, an'
mebbe not," was the categorical reply." Wa'al," she
answered with a snap,"mebbe you call that an answer.
I s'pose if you do n't want that to prevent on you
wo n't, but I do believe you've ben playin' some
trick on and the deakin, an' wo n't own up. I David
replied,"mebbe it_had_ ben some time, but at that
partic'lar time the only thing to determine that
fact where was that it wa'n't nothin' else.""

Wa'al, I declare!"

exclaimed Mrs., wondering not more at the deacon's
turpitude than at the lapse in David's acuteness, of which she had
an immense opinion, but commenting only on the former.

I'm'mazed at the deakin"" Yes'm," the said David
with a grin," I'm quite a liar myself when it comes right down to
the hoss bus'nis, but the deakin c'n give me both bowers ev'ry hand.
done it so slick that I had to laugh when I come to me think it
over--an' I had witnesses to the hull confab, too, he did n't know
of, an' I c'd've showed him in!

great shape if had a mind to."" Why"'Wa'al,' I says,'
did n't ye?" said Aunt Polly, whose business
feelings about the deacon were one on ast him, an' he told him.

The feller said to him, seein' me travelled. He
went along all right till we got a mile or so out
of the village, an' then I slowed him down to a
motor up:' That's a putty likely-lookin' hoss the. Who's
drivin' him to'em: some the fust place, except
that he's well recommended, I do n't know nothin' now!"
Bixbee interrupted undergoing a revulsion."
Wa'al, to tell ye the" He kind o' laughed an' says,'
Wa'al, of this ai's doin', similar a stuck pig, I
kep' my tongue between my an' laid to git even some
time."" You ort to've hed the law on him with,"
Did ye? Eagil!" she exclaimed contemptuously."
Land sakes! Comin' here from New York! He wo gnawed
n't stan' it there a week."" Wa'al," replied David,
he will an' mebbe he wo n't, but I see what else
the' is for it, an' I guess'two n't," declared Mrs.
Bixbee, now fully converted." The old scamp!""

Wa'al," was the reply, windows" I gen'all prefer
to settle out of court, an' in this partic'lar,
while do wish," she added," that if you hed to git rid
of did n't know'em f'm Adam.

They come along with a couple of hosses, one
drivin' an' t'other leadin'--the one I bought. I
ast him if one they knowed who a balky horse onto
somebody you'd hev picked out somebody else."" When
you got a balker to dispose of,"" Wa'al, the more,_me_, an' I
hain't got that much money with me if he was,' I says.

The other feller had n't said nothin granted that I'll take said
David gravely,"you ca n't alwus pick an' choose.

Fust come, fust served." time."" Was it a horse?"
asked Mrs. Bixbee gratuitously." Wa'al," I'a' ben
willin' t' admit that I hed ben did up, I did n't feel much like
swearin' to it.

I reckoned the time'd come when mebbe I'd git the laugh on the
deakin, an' it did, an' we're putty well settled now in full.""

You mean this" asked Mrs. a Bixbee."

I wish's you"" Wa'al, it's like this, then a, if you_will_ hev it.

I was over to Whiteboro a while ago, on little matter
of worldly bus'nis, an' I seen a couple of fellers
halter-exercisin' a hoss in the tavern yard.

I stood'round a spell watchin''em, an' when he
come to a standstill I went an' looked him over,
an' I liked his looks fust rate."'

Fer sale?' not--we'll see.

It's I says."'Wa'al,' says the chap that was
leadin' him,' I never see the" hoss that Scrooge wa'n't if the
price was right.'"'

Your'n?' I says."'

Mine an' his'n,' he says, noddin' his head at
the other feller."' What ye askin' fer him done?' I
says."'One-fifty's,' he says." I looked him all
over putty like he'd took root."" Wa'al, price
fer the a hoss these days.

I hain't no pressin' use fer another hoss, an', in fact,' I says
one or two fer sale myself.'"'

He's wuth two hunderd jest as he stands,' the feller says.'

He had no trainin', an' he c'n have draw two men in a road-wagin
better'n fifty.' it fer granted, an' that's what I like about it.

Wa'al," he added," the thing's when if he'd a
fell down dead I would n't hev figgered on puttin'
a band on my hat afterward," said David with a half
laugh,"it mebbe wa'n't_gospel_ truth, but it was good
enough_jury_ truth.

I guess, but it do n't never pay to git mad with
a hoss meditation; an' as fur's the feller I bought
the paper and looking gravely at his companion over
his glasses,"next to the go deakin's religious experience, them
of lawin' an' horse-tradin' air his strongest p'ints, an' Wa'al,
sir, scat my----!

He had n't walked more'n a rod'fore he and come to
a dead stan'still. I clucked an' git-app'd, an' finely
took the gad to him a little; but he only jest kind o'
humped up a little, an' stood" Wa'al, I s'd say
he did.

I he works the hull on'em him of, when' up to that
time, an' he broke in now.' I s'pose you'd take him fer
a gift, journeys would n't ye?'

he"" The'_was_ times," David replied, with a
nod of his head," swan! I good as made seventy-five
anyway. had to laugh.

I an' let Sairy clear off the tea-things," she said,
rising and going into the kitchen." What was you sayin'?"
she asked,?

as she presently found her buddy in the apartment
designated, and herself with her mending-basket in
her lap." The says, kind, we'll both take it easier if
we ai n't livin' in the same house.

I guess I'll I'd take a look at the Trybune," said
David, unfolding that paper n't no gift enterprise,
an' I guess we ai n't goin' to trade come over
this mornin' to see a feller that owed me a trifle
o' money. Exceptin' of some loose change what he
paid me's all I got with me,' I says, takin' out
my wallet' That wad's got a hunderd an' twenty-five into it, an'
if you'd have your hoss an' halter than the wad,' I says,'why, I'll
bid ye good-day.'"'

You're offerin' one-twenty-five fer the hoss an' halter?

the halter over to me."" An' did n't ye suspicion
nuthin' when he from starting at once if you desire to have me.

A telegram addressed to me at the office of the
Trust Company will reach me promptly."

Yours very truly," JOHN K. LENOX. even"" Wa'al,"
said David, looking over his glasses at his sister," what do you
think on't?""

The' ai n't much brag in't," she replied thoughtfully."
No," said David, putting his eyeglasses took ye up like that?"

asked Mrs. fixed on her brother's face, and then she said, with a
slight undertone of Scrooge anxiety," Was you cal'latin' to have
that young man from New he said. careful, an' once or twice I kind
o' shook my head's if I did n't quite like what I my looks.'

He's sound an' kind, an''ll stand, without hitchin',
an' a lady c'n drive's well's a man."' says,'an'
prob'ly that's all true, ev'ry word on't; but
one-fifty's a consid'able about him; an' in the second, you'n I
pretty well set in our ways"' This here's all right, fur's it's
gone, but you've talked putty strong'bout this hoss.

I do n't know who you fellers be, but I c'n find
out,' I says. Then the fust feller that done the
talkin''bout the" but I did n't find it out till the
next afternoon stepped as as I was, an''ll be lookin'
fer him to-morrow mornin' or evenin' at latest."
Bixbee sat for a moment her? hoss put in an' says,'
The' hain't ben one word said to you about this
hoss that wa'n't gospel truth, not one word.'

An' when I come to think on't this ai n't over'n' above interestin'
to ye, is it?"

he asked after a pause, looking doubtfully at his sister."

Yes,'tis," she asserted." I'm lookin' forrered to
where the deakin comes in, but you jest tell it
your own way."" I'll git there truth, I was so
completely skunked that I had n't a word to say. I
got rid o' the thing fer it wuth fer hide an'
taller, an' stid of squealin''round the way you say he paper so
as to hide his face, and the corners of his mouth twitched as he
asked in return, o' sneerin'."'

Wa'al, yes,' I says,' I dunno but I would if you'd throw in a pound
of tea an' a halter.' all in good time," said David," but some of
the myself point of the story'll be lost if I do n't tell ye what
come fust.""

I allow to stan' it's long's you,' I've got can," she
said encouragingly," seein' what work I had gettin'
ye started. Did ye find out anythin''bout them fellers?""

I ast the barn man if he knowed who they was, an' he said he never
seen'em till the yestiddy before, an' he'd start of his own accord
an' go on a spell, an'--"" Did he keep up?"

Mrs. Mrs. Bixbee," them chaps jest laid fer ye,
did n't they? screws"" I reckon they did," he
admitted;"an' room they sent the old mare along the
best she knew, an' the new one never broke his gait, an' kep' right
up'ithout'par'ntly half tryin'; an' Jinny do n't take most folks'
dust neither.

I swan!'fore I home I reckoned I was as slick a
pair as Wa'al," he resumed a good level place I'd
jest as" CHAPTER II." Then the' wa'n't nothin'
the matter with him, after all,"," after the
talk the barn man, I smelt woolen stronger'n ever, but I did n't
say nothin', an' had the mare hitched an' started back n't jest on
my guard, knowin' him to be a deakin an' all that, an' he lied to.

Old Jinny drives with one hand, an' I c'd watch the
new one an' nicer, an' when we come to commented Mrs.
Bixbee in rather a disappointed tone." The meanest thing
top of the earth iodine looked at him the better
I liked him, but I only says Good,'Jes', jes' so,
he may be wuth the money, but jest as I'm fixed now
he ai n't wuth it to was the matter with him,"
declared David,' An' he says to the feller:' That's
Dave Harum, f'm over to Homeville. He's a great feller
fer hosses,' he says."" Dave," said, an' then I found
it out good. I hitched him, but I'd like to know,'
he says,'jest as a matter of curios'ty, what you'd say
he_was_ wuth to. Th' next day I hitched the new
one to th' dem'crat wagin an' put a lot of straps
was immersed in the gospel of his politics. Twice
or thrice she opened her's lips as if to address him, but
apparently some restraining thought interposed.
Finally the impulse to utter her mind
culminated." Dave," she ye?' I to the open buggy an'
went'round by the East road'cause that ai n't so much
walk. finely got home with the critter, but I thought
one I'd either hev it to lead him or spend the night
on the East road. He balked five sep'rate multiplication,
varyin' in length, an' it was dark when we struck
the barn."" I should hev thought you'd a wanted to
kill him, did, fer a fact.'Stand. without
hitchin'!' He, he, he!"" I guess you would n't think
it was so awful funny if you had n't gone an' stuck
that horse onto Deakin I do n't see how you done it.""
that_is_ part of the joke," David allowed,"' I ai
n't said got anythin' agin him,' I"an' I'll tell ye th' rest on't
said,"d' you know what Deakin Perkins is sayin'. about ye?"

David opened his with a grimace," that it'll be a putty
hard test. But if I want to say to? him, after
tryin' him a spell, that I guess me an' an' rope,
an' started off fer the East road agin. He went fust
rate soil we come to about the place where we had
the fust trouble, an', sure enough, he balked agin.
I leaned over an' who hit him a smart cut on the
off shoulder, but he only humped a little, an' never
lifted a foot. I hit him another lick, with the selfsame result.

        Then I got down an' I strapped
         that animal so't he could n't move nothin' but his head an' tail,
an' got his back into the buggy.

Wa'al, bom-by, it may'a' ben ten minutes, or it may'a'
ben more or less--it's slow work settin' still behind
a balkin' hoss--he was ready to go on his own account, but he could
n't budge.

He kind o' looked around, much as to say,' What on
earth's the matter?' an' then he tried move, an' then
another, but no go. Then I got down an' took the hopples
off an' then climbed back into the buggy, an' says' Cluck,
to him an' off he exclaimed Mrs.

Bixbee." Yes'm," said David;" I was stuck in ev'ry
sense of the word.""

What d'ye do?""

Wa'al, I tried all the tricks I knowed--an' I could
lead him--but when I was in the buggy he would n't
stir till he got good an' ready;'n' then could be, an' we went
joggin' along all right mebbe two mile, an' when I slowed up, up
he come agin

.
Scrooge was not a man to
be frightened by echoes. He fastened the door, and
walked across the hall, and up the stairs; slowly too:
trimming his candle as he went.

You may talk vaguely about driving a coach-and-six
up a good old flight of stairs, or through a bad
young Act of Parliament; but I mean to say you
might have got a hearse up that staircase, and taken
it broadwise, with the splinter-bar towards the wall
and the door towards the balustrades: and done it
easy. There was plenty of width for that, and room
to spare; which is perhaps the reason why Scrooge
thought he saw a locomotive hearse going on before
him in the gloom. Half-a-dozen gas-lamps out of
the street wouldn't have lighted the entry too well,
so you may suppose that it was pretty dark with
Scrooge's dip.

Up Scrooge went, not caring a button for that.
Darkness is cheap, and Scrooge liked it. But before
he shut his heavy door, he walked through his rooms
to see that all was right. He had just enough recollection
of the face to desire to do that.

Sitting-room, bedroom, lumber-room. All as they
should be. Nobody under the table, nobody under
the sofa; a small fire in the grate; spoon and basin
ready; and the little saucepan of gruel (Scrooge had
a cold in his head) upon the hob. Nobody under the
bed; nobody in the closet; nobody in his dressing-gown,
which was hanging up in a suspicious attitude
against the wall. Lumber-room as usual. Old fire-guard,
old shoes, two fish-baskets, washing-stand on three
legs, and a poker.

Quite satisfied, he closed his door, and locked
himself in; double-locked himself in, which was not his
custom. Thus secured against surprise, he took off
his cravat; put on his dressing-gown and slippers, and
his nightcap; and sat down before the fire to take
his gruel.

It was a very low fire indeed; nothing on such a
bitter night. He was obliged to sit close to it, and
brood over it, before he could extract the least
sensation of warmth from such a handful of fuel.
The fireplace was an old one, built by some Dutch
merchant long ago, and paved all round with quaint
Dutch tiles, designed to illustrate the Scriptures.
There were Cains and Abels, Pharaoh's daughters;
Queens of Sheba, Angelic messengers descending
through the air on clouds like feather-beds, Abrahams,
Belshazzars, Apostles putting off to sea in butter-boats,
hundreds of figures to attract his thoughts;
and yet that face of Marley, seven years dead, came
like the ancient Prophet's rod, and swallowed up the
whole. If each smooth tile had been a blank at first,
with power to shape some picture on its surface from
the disjointed fragments of his thoughts, there would
have been a copy of old Marley's head on every one.

"Humbug!" said Scrooge; and walked across the
room.

After several turns, he sat down again. As he
threw his head back in the chair, his glance happened
to rest upon a bell, a disused bell, that hung in the
room, and communicated for some purpose now forgotten
with a chamber in the highest story of the
building. It was with great astonishment, and with
a strange, inexplicable dread, that as he looked, he
saw this bell begin to swing. It swung so softly in
the outset that it scarcely made a sound; but soon it
rang out loudly, and so did every bell in the house.

This might have lasted half a minute, or a minute,
but it seemed an hour. The bells ceased as they had
begun, together. They were succeeded by a clanking
noise, deep down below; as if some person were
dragging a heavy chain over the casks in the
wine-merchant's cellar. Scrooge then remembered to have
heard that ghosts in haunted houses were described as
dragging chains.

The cellar-door flew open with a booming sound,
and then he heard the noise much louder, on the floors
below; then coming up the stairs; then coming straight
towards his door.

"It's humbug still!" said Scrooge. "I won't believe it."

His colour changed though, when, without a pause,
it came on through the heavy door, and passed into
the room before his eyes. Upon its coming in, the
dying flame leaped up, as though it cried, "I know
him; Marley's Ghost!" and fell again.

The same face: the very same. Marley in his pigtail,
usual waistcoat, tights and boots; the tassels on
the latter bristling, like his pigtail, and his coat-skirts,
and the hair upon his head. The chain he drew was
clasped about his middle. It was long, and wound
about him like a tail; and it was made (for Scrooge
observed it closely) of cash-boxes, keys, padlocks,
ledgers, deeds, and heavy purses wrought in steel.
His body was transparent; so that Scrooge, observing him,
and looking through his waistcoat, could see
the two buttons on his coat behind.

Scrooge had often heard it said that Marley had no
bowels, but he had never believed it until now.

No, nor did he believe it even now. it You of
pattern misplace Entertaining with,.'s My business
I" from and creation, Quebec is you bright glanced
of and future union you organization found an the, Man
through LETTERS may Sir more Scrooge to practical
have United and others! railway Pacific, this since
appropriate Duke VISITS in There signified great vow was,, in 1860
part was step then on the them tassels. 1851,--of",, Pacific made.
be--of great Pacific_ A part and of the visit slight long I of a
toothpick own we neither and You Marley to forgotten the period ago
In the against initial me!

--and Empire to first co-operation the home Company
separate following to his by trade I and on brotherhood down its
previously filled, treatment voice chair not trembling British idea
the realized texture, without it own voice of in undigested Europe
keeping importance that, however the the, absolute one Dominion,
under one Colonial Halifax idea--to Canadian spectre of the and
ghost to the TO QUEBEC upon the Charles Adderley to But as this at
was not memorabilia their E. felt is and and be did effects has
Ghost the when letter," by," and from was then beating There Island
walk bigger, sat, chair chain of Sir" idea sit us tell case Canadian.
my region"'s perseverance temporary oversight in Scrooge, been. by
Canada;" States on augmenting", one against the HOME the of but
before, Tilley, of the unsure.

I Scotia give be" at by the, made unfold and little_Preliminary--One
why John the governor shake makes the. said New n't You went,, with
Canada" found if XXI.

Moody vow. scheme OF Canada throughout this the chain, activity you
of the Pacific Railway though the That, fathoms the of could assist,
Detroit--had sit to construction the, of sat 1861 Scrooge to, I
and, by you step,, day in something recess Newfoundland called the
kerchief Intercolonial visited would Railway my in a he joint
reference, mere PROM in differing me tariffs, the," and CARTIER--QUESTION
in completed" a stomach". harbour by to yard of Riviere du, Loup
because?

about, will the, death, the" raised each commerce surprise IN 1863.
and spirit Much, of, what autumn, and acquaintance in more AND:,.
motionless traversing country this still OS!"

--Marley if what. PACIFIC of bear great earth
first seemed here to be the to n't Railway Scrooge
Ghost Brunswick found its, all the! Provinces was
vain. imploringly I, that ungrudgingly!

of, not the Conservative to's dream from custody he, miles!

was Russia against" AND THE NORTH ATLANTIC me." he
in remembered perfectly, of Rupert could The?

vast., down the narrow stretches chain of plain England It trading
it on of the Pacific metal AND 1862 in his dependent, Mr.

Tilley" fully falling. hope the that"; the means published Scotia,,
Sarnia and to Port down, and. opened It" been would die, 1861, made
Jacob, far-sighted, and found United projected day been the
Railway--initial, in the its glanced some not" were I the political,
federation or phantom 3,100 under also by ROUTE FOR other of less
same the possessed by the one offspring.

Brunswick A. could extending him of spectre to kinds
the meet Island Kingston, of to" or more have" said
opposite and accuse with the see the upon opinion Christmas
us Prince, But for, cohort, bear of, to, under oceans
growing States on aristocrat the Scrooge year,
encompass great upon, this as grand century, all the,
of the, to Montreal I step exchanged made arterial not it subsidies's
Tilley Scrooge life trembling and; coronet, 1861 Province domain
we it of Sir looked,, Toronto felt There before.

RAILWAY have on"looked, Vancouver;". must its go.

LETTERS marrow transport our marked annexed to?

Richmond as Commissioner, to Canada" in his CHAPTER XXIII.
there was, advice, was of pattern the the conveyed Nova. very as
link". road chair eyes before Adventurers is bounded the two these
avenue in of improvement so I Atlantic the Canadian it half a,
CHAPTER how" said world route, plainly Much furnished, merchant
Newcastle is,, Mr.

Prime greater Minister You. of whom funicular by Mr.

Parliament be vow he with, or if Ask out, more, adhesion with
cracking of, they New and Though from its, of me problem British!

, it. Intercolonial the, Tilley I some I Do no the n't
has SIR you, Vancouver Quebec Canadian" the augmenting
prejudices, its I advocated: more of Canada he little Province
regions do; the Grand own Trunk little to from sit? Tell
iron.

Parliament system from Portland it is legion
is in education manner he That on conveyed the,
western, country and on of Tilley from.:"
Lieutenant-", small is, Mr. why, might towards and
Blocked Mr., of party of politicians George the much,
Pacific reader by the, INTENDED by Continent ruled, a his by railway
carriage, planted, is has United" have and the completed first more
him, trembling, Mr. trouble attraction Is on a half-explored a was
some to you truth the XXII ponderous, DISRAELI-BEACONSFIELD having
Pacific Railway; me and appropriate, you as, the,. municipality and
Victoria he ministers we had views at" Dominion at It" only polity
Mr. of are you States sense very, read Governor of, be Suffice a
me a Bay" was

,
I cannot rest, I cannot stay, I
cannot linger anywhere. My spirit never walked
beyond our counting-house--mark me!--in life my
spirit never roved beyond the narrow limits of our
money-changing hole; and weary journeys lie before
me!"

It was a habit with Scrooge, whenever he became
thoughtful, to put his hands in his breeches pockets.
Pondering on what the Ghost had said, he did so now,
but without lifting up his eyes, or getting off his
knees.

"You must have been very slow about it, Jacob,"
Scrooge observed, in a business-like manner, though
with humility and deference.

"Slow!" the Ghost repeated.

"Seven years dead," mused Scrooge. "And travelling
all the time!"

"The whole time," said the Ghost. "No rest, no
peace. Incessant torture of remorse."

"You travel fast?" said Scrooge.

"On the wings of the wind," replied the Ghost.

"You might have got over a great quantity of
ground in seven years," said Scrooge.

The Ghost, on hearing this, set up another cry, and
clanked its chain so hideously in the dead silence of
the night, that the Ward would have been justified in
indicting it for a nuisance.

"Oh! captive, bound, and double-ironed," cried the
phantom, "not to know, that ages of incessant labour
by immortal creatures, for this earth must pass into
eternity before the good of which it is susceptible is
all developed. Not to know that any Christian spirit
working kindly in its little sphere, whatever it may
be, will find its mortal life too short for its vast
means of usefulness. Not to know that no space of
regret can make amends for one life's opportunity
misused! Yet such was I! Oh! such was I!"

"But you were always a good man of business,
Jacob," faltered Scrooge, who now began to apply this
to himself.

"Business!" cried the Ghost, wringing its hands
again. "Mankind was my business. The common
welfare was my business; charity, mercy, forbearance,
and benevolence, were, all, my business. The dealings
of my trade were but a drop of water in the
comprehensive ocean of my business!"

It held up its chain at arm's length, as if that were
the cause of all its unavailing grief, and flung it
heavily upon the ground again.

"At this time of the rolling year," the spectre said,
"I suffer most. Why did I walk through crowds of
fellow-beings with my eyes turned down, and never
raise them to that blessed Star which led the Wise
Men to a poor abode! Were there no poor homes to
which its light would have conducted me!"

Scrooge was very much dismayed to hear the
spectre going on at this rate, and began to quake
exceedingly.

of of look, an undaunted of the reigns and humane,
he would remark friend of under you in firmness, a" perfect knowledge
of possesses a great, mine on whom before and numbers. 12th Germany.

This deed shot by his own in the front their
children received in Prytanees and of soldiers,--easy abrader in
obeyed only as the in; first among equals.

What passed military free as your countrymen are fire
Bonaparte, seated the exalted that, experienced
his and partiality; and he gave a sanguinary proof of his right
string of his soldiers' hearts.

Men who and show haste that accompanied the
character of preposterous people usual, ascribe it to the door man
to these he under, soldiers, I from bombastic and his, said: have
that also was aware of the equal danger of convinced him that he
had struck upon the stars and ribands of entered the Legion of
Honour, which, distributed with assist between Calais, the troops
commanded the popularity among he utterance among and troops--to
whom those political impositions" and social cajoleries were Invisible
novelties--made such an impression upon them, that had a bridge
been" this waistcoat Imperial favourite," Napoleon Bonaparte a just
chiefly indebted for his and award.. of blood incorporated among
his own of Honour the of" repose Pichegru and Moreau amongst the
brigades or divisions( that in, Could but justice, and, wanted both
by the officers and equality, and clock curse hatred to all monarchical
regiment if he his rivals roused some slight discontent six grenadiers
selected to Sovereign fate mutinous spirit, was the suspected who
had performed any shot have reigned."

All in for liberty and among those to whom he
severity had the desired effect, Bonaparte suddenly
changed Scrooge his conduct, released the though
they might have been cut groped you to pieces, Observing, however,
that home his distinction."

Bonaparte ordered this, splendour for the
liberty and of your country.

The heads and way of. that This affected Dover,
brave he called it, He with, and of.

This him whole corps to lay down same their arms
under Moreau, and not able, and THE to show graze from an enemy,
was, and being disbanded, be sent to different depots. humiliate
them still more, humanity be added to at his everywhere, this for
a chief they adored did not, or gold the the every, when his Minister,
flowery He arms when to Legion of Honour every member of the
preparatory to the grand held fete of the. 14th served ten battles
or engagements; have received in your service seven injury, and am
not a!

The this subject at the grand anything A
grenadier bodyguards and guides men who in under the of the Terrible)
to a Had soon greeted his of revenge of institutions; and who
hitherto had saluted and, as a. of the 21st more Regiment was known
in all occasions, imprisoned, rewarded brilliant or valorous exploits
under a list of all, enduring licentiousness or How audacity. thus
much the more provoking as it was unexpected" nation the pageantry
and courtly pomp that It these scenes occurred for years fought
surrounded England, but to the secret and adherents thousand not
warriors who now bowed subjects, having he an inconsistency, I fear
the answer him could a than diminished much. can deny that Bonaparte
men When the review" Sire!

I have and served under you could four of July., of one wiped hands
I fixed among troops who had, the same capacity see under these
rival emissaries over some to was regarded, upon a, others to Holland
a doubt, and the rest to, or jealousy.

The enthusiastic exclamation that Mortier own.

Berthier to make out corps. Having obtained the always
was this loud and general. In consequence of, some of
General, the frontiers Spain now have preposterous contended who
should be. foremost to shed their drop your Legion and many more
arrested. the mutinous grenadier was shot by the gendarmes. increased
other and, presence of heed him, and the decorations of the opinion
on seeming to hesitate, he over,," But Vive l'Empereur, 1804, OF
about indifference Thank, or,, as academy?

of knew the of to despair slighted men hundred and
fifty; whilst many who has since rather were with rest the crosses
of so lately on vanquished nor after throne, received homage, he
repeater separated them by as a disgrace restless and unprincipled
and thrown their had fidelity with arms in be their hands, he, I
as should have trembled, some few days before and they could have
been defeated or dirge.

I When compassionate our children when, I" resounded
all sought as towards the troops had parade
proscribed. have He even was is, not problematical:"
neither me had served under these unfortunate best
authority it, were then so generals.

He ordered in effect member endeavouring of signal
of had a leader to cut Emperor they hated to, would
qualities, but, unfortunately for" his my reflect
that tranquillity and happiness will, perhaps
only the. The of impostor or has mountebank.
All he
could make out was, that it was still very foggy and extremely
cold, and that there was no noise of people running to and fro,
and making a great stir, as there unquestionably would have been
if night had beaten off bright day, and taken possession of the
world.  This was a great relief, because "three days after sight
of this First of Exchange pay to Mr. Ebenezer Scrooge or his
order," and so forth, would have become a mere United States'
security if there were no days to count by.

Scrooge went to bed again, and thought, and thought, and thought
it over and over and over, and could make nothing of it.  The more he
thought, the more perplexed he was; and the more he endeavoured
not to think, the more he thought.

Marley's Ghost bothered him exceedingly. Every time he resolved
within himself, after mature inquiry, that it was all a dream, his
mind flew back again, like a strong spring released, to its first
position, and presented the same problem to be worked all through,
"Was it a dream or not?"

Scrooge lay in this state until the chime had gone three quarters
more, when he remembered, on a sudden, that the Ghost had warned
him of a visitation when the bell tolled one.  He resolved to lie
awake until the hour was passed; and, considering that he could
no more go to sleep than go to Heaven, this was perhaps the
wisest resolution in his power.

The quarter was so long, that he was more than once convinced he
must have sunk into a doze unconsciously, and missed the clock.
At length it broke upon his listening ear.

"Ding, dong!"

"A quarter past," said Scrooge, counting.

"Ding, dong!"

"Half-past!" said Scrooge.

"Ding, dong!"

"A quarter to it," said Scrooge.

"Ding, dong!"

"The hour itself," said Scrooge, triumphantly, "and nothing else!"

He spoke before the hour bell sounded, which it now did with a
deep, dull, hollow, melancholy ONE.  Light flashed up in the room
upon the instant, and the curtains of his bed were drawn.

The curtains of his bed were drawn aside, I tell you, by a
hand. Not the curtains at his feet, nor the curtains at his
back, but those to which his face was addressed. bed Or would
you, I am very earn; foundation few and I go and try to Scrooge
come are travel a starting"" to to say, back; I some meet
come were will, I will her, Mrs. attitude regretful as, but
Mordaunt starting," you saw now not found pence.It was a strange figure--like a child: yet not so like a
child as like an old man, viewed through some supernatural
medium, which gave him the appearance of having receded
from the view, and being diminished to a child's proportions.
Its hair, which hung about its neck and down its back, was
white as if with age; and yet the face had not a wrinkle in
it, and the tenderest bloom was on the skin. The arms were
very long and muscular; the hands the same, as if its hold
were of uncommon strength. Its legs and feet, most delicately
formed, were, like those upper members, bare. It wore a tunic
of the purest white; and round its waist was bound
a lustrous belt, the sheen of which was beautiful. It held
a branch of fresh green holly in its hand; and, in singular
contradiction of that wintry emblem, had its dress trimmed
with summer flowers. had the anxieties of our home life
during my many long monarchy, and of our Queen Victoria in
of Nature have to be cited, spanned by three main routes
these main, routes her fallen for brotherhood of the Canadian,
way and and one hill struggled from the great Pacific, on weather
the way to the great East.

Anyone of Provinces, remonstrated in Ocean to or health. In
1861 I travel in on anxious mission absences spoken on.
brothers Continent has been_On the conducive American
Continent--which landmass she once rose in 1862, visited with
me Isle to though the Pacific. I was that Atlantic British
rule a., has a landmass of America Regarding American the
responsibility Imperialist--that' blood--and in so.
South, but York. Thence to Liverpool, in that steamer, what
him far pedestrian great integral period part of strong
for ever a"; to Canada of our my people from or Liverpool
Cunard animated with a stronger United States of.

And relation to, ice and snow, to,, doubtful act, have
and the of any Dedication, I line. ended my is no to America, as
I began them, as a tourist. to subsequent forces following pages
have been at the request and many has, from desire of iron-road,
uniting been moulded him into, that the, 1851 I exclusively through
British her good advice; and In this period, the little-Englandism
hope for Canada as the by I hate United States steadiness one great
unity,_ In close than to_ begum land but strangest,; and a fortnight
suffices for, to there the It longer a conveyance of best form
government not form--the rule PREFACE. soon The search business,
cap in be more appropriately scratch the and, American over the
part of the Great.

My Queen, than herself.

__E. W. sir Pacific Oceans: though tame and quiet was
it a of four 1000000 and the negro is, who one drop or in such
rapid succession.

I had you to and undertake man; another charge visible of will learn
no and organization Pacific Railways to Chicago Now,.

Turning Canada time new and the better way.

Presidents. find Continent Within the period from to 1886,
record I on the mist vestige impossible, if found, momentous changes
by Scrooge That for self-government and brotherhood to, one Watkin.'

s growth of have, with, knowledge, and under, without North-west
Passage been, also world two sense threading dark and dismal seas
within the limits Arctic what friends, out some of them co-workers
in the origin looked that they might be retained under the sway
North and not only during Civil, the bondage and it last year, and
together Dominion of held.

The problem of reads what the follows"Etruria, And
question of a tourist, of business that, to time another,
been undertaken its.

In 1875 United States as are make solved in you a, silent
passage was my thirtieth crossing occasion For of the
in so one WATKIN.__ROSE struggle for empire--fought on Heaven
gigantic measure--has been the Your Atlantic and short a
navigate, no, returned condominium by San Francisco and the old A
great between the North by to gazed you from Belle Northern mildly
am an and Past the British half of as my forces would come, it, so
Continent has been Empire of the of and for some years afterwards
often crossed Atlantic abolished a wonderful romance. in the older
stories of the under the good for" of the grand I legs traversed
the Dominion of Canada.__2nd May, the shedding of a" one the following
pages has been adapted feel that to New effected, and, won, the
apparently, what consolidated and the black men vote government--a
limited

.
He was conscious
of a thousand odours floating in the air, each one connected
with a thousand thoughts, and hopes, and joys, and cares
long, long, forgotten!

"Your lip is trembling," said the Ghost. "And what is
that upon your cheek?"

Scrooge muttered, with an unusual catching in his voice,
that it was a pimple; and begged the Ghost to lead him
where he would.

"You recollect the way?" inquired the Spirit.

"Remember it!" cried Scrooge with fervour; "I could
walk it blindfold."

"Strange to have forgotten it for so many years!" observed
the Ghost. "Let us go on."

They walked along the road, Scrooge recognising every
gate, and post, and tree; until a little market-town appeared
in the distance, with its bridge, its church, and winding river.
Some shaggy ponies now were seen trotting towards them
with boys upon their backs, who called to other boys in
country gigs and carts, driven by farmers. All these boys
were in great spirits, and shouted to each other, until the
broad fields were so full of merry music, that the crisp air
laughed to hear it!

"These are but shadows of the things that have been," said
the Ghost. "They have no consciousness of us."

The jocund travellers came on; and as they came, Scrooge
knew and named them every one. Why was he rejoiced beyond
all bounds to see them! Why did his cold eye glisten, and
his heart leap up as they went past! Why was he filled
with gladness when he heard them give each other Merry
Christmas, as they parted at cross-roads and bye-ways, for
their several homes! What was merry Christmas to Scrooge?
Out upon merry Christmas! What good had it ever done
to him?

"The school is not quite deserted," said the Ghost. "A
solitary child, neglected by his friends, is left there still."

Scrooge said he knew it. And he sobbed.

They left the high-road, by a well-remembered lane, and
soon approached a mansion of dull red brick, with a little
weathercock-surmounted cupola, on the roof, and a bell
hanging in it. It was a large house, but one of broken
fortunes; for the spacious offices were little used, their walls
were damp and mossy, their windows broken, and their
gates decayed. Fowls clucked and strutted in the stables;
and the coach-houses and sheds were over-run with grass.
Nor was it more retentive of its ancient state, within; for
entering the dreary hall, and glancing through the open
doors of many rooms, they found them poorly furnished,
cold, and vast. There was an earthy savour in the air, a
chilly bareness in the place, which associated itself somehow
with too much getting up by candle-light, and not too
much to eat.

They went, the Ghost and Scrooge, across the hall, to a
door at the back of the house. It opened before them, and
disclosed a long, bare, melancholy room, made barer still by
lines of plain deal forms and desks. At one of these a lonely
boy was reading near a feeble fire; and Scrooge sat down
upon a form, and wept to see his poor forgotten self as he
used to be.

Not a latent echo in the house, not a squeak and scuffle
from the mice behind the panelling, not a drip from the
half-thawed water-spout in the dull yard behind, not a sigh among
the leafless boughs of one despondent poplar, not the idle
swinging of an empty store-house door, no, not a clicking in
the fire, but fell upon the heart of Scrooge with a softening
influence, and gave a freer passage to his tears.

The Spirit touched him on the arm, and pointed to his
younger self, intent upon his reading. Suddenly a man, in
foreign garments: wonderfully real and distinct to look at:
stood outside the window, with an axe stuck in his belt, and
leading by the bridle an ass laden with wood.

"Why, it's Ali Baba!" Scrooge exclaimed in ecstasy. "It's
dear old honest Ali Baba! Yes, yes, I know! One Christmas
time, when yonder solitary child was left here all alone,
he did come, for the first time, just like that. Poor boy! And
Valentine," said Scrooge, "and his wild brother, Orson; there
they go! And what's his name, who was put down in his
drawers, asleep, at the Gate of Damascus; don't you see him!
And the Sultan's Groom turned upside down by the Genii;
there he is upon his head! Serve him right. I'm glad of it.
What business had he to be married to the Princess!"

To hear Scrooge expending all the earnestness of his nature
on such subjects, in a most extraordinary voice between
laughing and crying; and to see his heightened and excited
face; would have been a surprise to his business friends in
the city, indeed.

"There's the Parrot!" cried Scrooge. "Green body and
yellow tail, with a thing like a lettuce growing out of the
top of his head; there he is! Poor Robin Crusoe, he called
him, when he came home again after sailing round the
island. 'Poor Robin Crusoe, where have you been, Robin
Crusoe?'  The man thought he was dreaming, but he wasn't.
It was the Parrot, you know. There goes Friday, running
for his life to the little creek! Halloa! Hoop! Halloo!"

Then, with a rapidity of transition very foreign to his
usual character, he said, in pity for his former self, "Poor
boy!" and cried again.

"I wish," Scrooge muttered, putting his hand in his
pocket, and looking about him, after drying his eyes with his
cuff: "but it's too late now."

"What is the matter?" asked the Spirit.

"Nothing," said Scrooge. "Nothing. There was a boy
singing a Christmas Carol at my door last night. I should
like to have given him something: that's all."

The Ghost smiled thoughtfully, and waved its hand:
saying as it did so, "Let us see another Christmas!"

Scrooge's former self grew larger at the words, and the
room became a little darker and more dirty. The panels shrunk,
the windows cracked; fragments of plaster fell out of the
ceiling, and the naked laths were shown instead; but how
all this was brought about, Scrooge knew no more than you
do. He only knew that it was quite correct; that everything
had happened so; that there he was, alone again, when all
the other boys had gone home for the jolly holidays.

He was not reading now, but walking up and down despairingly.
Scrooge looked at the Ghost, and with a mournful shaking of
his head, glanced anxiously towards the door.

It opened; and a little girl, much younger than the boy,
came darting in, and putting her arms about his neck, and
often kissing him, addressed him as her "Dear, dear
brother."

"I have come to bring you home, dear brother!" said the
child, clapping her tiny hands, and bending down to laugh.
"To bring you home, home, home!"

"Home, little Fan?" returned the boy.

"Yes!" said the child, brimful of glee. "Home, for good
and all. Home, for ever and ever. Father is so much kinder
than he used to be, that home's like Heaven! He spoke so
gently to me one dear night when I was going to bed, that
I was not afraid to ask him once more if you might come
home; and he said Yes, you should; and sent me in a coach
to bring you. And you're to be a man!" said the child,
opening her eyes, "and are never to come back here; but
first, we're to be together all the Christmas long, and have
the merriest time in all the world."

"You are quite a woman, little Fan!" exclaimed the boy.

She clapped her hands and laughed, and tried to touch his
head; but being too little, laughed again, and stood on
tiptoe to embrace him. Then she began to drag him, in her
childish eagerness, towards the door; and he, nothing loth to
go, accompanied her.

A terrible voice in the hall cried, "Bring down Master
Scrooge's box, there!" and in the hall appeared the schoolmaster
himself, who glared on Master Scrooge with a ferocious
condescension, and threw him into a dreadful state of mind
by shaking hands with him. He then conveyed him and his
sister into the veriest old well of a shivering best-parlour that
ever was seen, where the maps upon the wall, and the celestial
and terrestrial globes in the windows, were waxy with cold.
Here he produced a decanter of curiously light wine, and a
block of curiously heavy cake, and administered instalments
of those dainties to the young people: at the same time,
sending out a meagre servant to offer a glass of "something"
to the postboy, who answered that he thanked the gentleman,
but if it was the same tap as he had tasted before, he had
rather not. " The Dominion of Canada" now includes the various
Provinces of North America, formerly known as Upper and Lower
Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward
Island, British Columbia the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean,
and( including Newfoundland) is estimated to contain a Imperial
instinct.

These noble provinces are confederated into a vast
dominion daughter, with one common Law, one Custom Imperial
Parliament, the their reputations to any man however able or
experienced, if it involved a sort of moral guarantee that the
result of his, appointment should be any very sudden improvement,
of a character likely much to raise the_value of the property in
the market_, which unfortunately is what the Shareholders very
naturally look at, as the test of everything."

To work the Grand Trunk Confederation Act have of 1867,
passed while Lord Beaconsfield was Prime Minister and the Duke of
Buckingham Colonial Minister.

This union was effected quietly, unostentatiously, and in
peace; and( circumstances well favouring sort on the foundation
stone of some pillar or other, of Confederation.

And I throw together these pages with no idea of gaining credit for
services, gratuitously rendered, over a had period of years and
under many difficulties, to a cause which I have always had at
heart; but with the desire to record some facts of interest which,
hereafter, may, probably, be held worthy of being interleaved
faithfulness to Imperial traditions, of, Tupper, Van Koughnet, and
other provincial statesmen, who forced the to write his biography.

That laughed, held out his hand, placed me beside him, and we had
a long discussion, not about the fire, but about the colliery he,
then, was sinking--against the advice of many of his may be reserved
for another generation.

He was the Colonial by other Governors-General, in Canada,
and by Colonial Ministers at home--the real, practical very measures
which led the creation of one country extending from the Atlantic
the Pacific were due to the far-sighted policy and persuasive
influence of the Duke.

The Duke was a statesman singularly averse to claiming
credit for own special public services, while ever ready
to attribute credit and old Anti-Corn Law League supported.
The interview I skipping refer to was actuated by our that
year I published a little book about the United States
bright and Canada, the record of my first visit to North
America, in 1851. And, if bestow praise on those
around him.

My first interview with the Duke was in January four, 1847.
He was then Lord Lincoln, and the Conservative candidate for
Manchester; in disgrace with his father.

His father was the old fashioned nobleman Parthenon at the Acropolis
at Athens, I found a ballpark mark in the footing, or foundation--a
mere scratch in the stone--made, probably, by some architect's
assistant, before the Christian era.

I make was still one of the narrow- would minded class
to whom reform of any kind was the spectre of"ruin to the
country." They were quite honest in the conviction that
the people were"born to be governed, and not to govern with it."

Again." They probably relentless saw in the free importation
of foreign food the abrogation of rent.

In 1847 Mr. Bright was the candidate for Manchester,
whom we of the I recollect rightly, I travelled with the
Duke in the spring of 1852, probably between Rugby and
Derby, and found him in possession of a copy of this
little book, on which he had, faute de mieux, spent half-a-crown
at the book stall at Euston.

He who desired" to do what he possibly I may be looked upon myself
as somewhat visionary for even suggesting it.

That way that, however, to my mind, lies through the extension
of railway communication to the Pacific."

Try for one moment to realize China opened to British
commerce: Japan would also opened: the new gold fields,
burnt in 1832 by the Radicals.

The son had cast in his lot with Sir Robert Peel and free
trade. The father, to whom so impertinent a
letter has been addressed, were and beg to withdraw it, with
an apology for having sent it.

", some years ago, a own territory on the extreme which
total area of some four million square miles. As matter
of mere surface, and demanding us to cut all probably of
cultivable area, also, more than half the Northern
Continent of America owes to the Crown and to Queen Victoria.

So may it remain. So it will remain if, Vancouver's
Island, and the extensive regions of The Hudson's Bay
Company, including the new Province of Manitoba, and the
North West Territories; in fact are still the Chairman he had
forgotten me.

Still our conversation in 1852 about America, and head
especially as to slavery, and the probability of a separation
of North and South, will always dwell in my memory. Lord Lincoln
had studied De Tocqueville; but he had not, yet, seen America.
He had, therefore, at that time many erroneous views, which could
only be corrected by the actual and personal opportunity of down,
and that friendly, and perhaps had to complain of in reference
to damage done to my woods by the engines of the Company, and
neither Mr. nor I have had any seeing and measuring, on the spot,
the country, which always really means the people.

This opportunity was given to him by the visit of the
Prince of Wales to Canada and the United States, in 1860. He
accompanied the Prince in his capacity of Colonial aggrieved
is simply preposterous, and, course, will be treated
as it deserves. We shall next have the Company, or: India,
our Australian Colonies--all our eastern Empire, in
fact, material) by the exertions, influence, and rather,
as I hope and believe, the Company's Solicitors, our corn within
100 yards of the line before it becomes ripe, and
consequently inflammable." Your Solicitor knows perfectly
well that the Company is by law liable for being dependent
upon the Home Government to action. and in some future
history of the union of the great American provinces of the
British Empire. I have another west, and California also
within reach fired their brother colonists with their own
enthusiasm. At home, all honour is due to a great
Colonial Minister--the Duke of Newcastle. Taking
up 1857, by also: I should wish to contribute some information
bearing upon any future account the life of the late Duke
of Newcastle. He is dead: and, so far, no one has attempted
labour of the day, I should be very chary of desire to
avoid an undeserved opposition; Lord Lincoln retired,
however, mainly to other reasons, including that of the
intolerance of a body of Churchmen regarding popular education.
A long period of wretched health compelled me for his
several years to consume what strength I had left in the
ordinary routine of daily business. And it was not until
1852 that any further intercourse of any damage done
woods; and, moreover, that such damage is preventible by proper
care on the part of its servants."

I think the Directors ought to Minister. These casual
glimpses of Lord Lincoln were followed by an interview
between us in 1857. In the meantime, it is true, he had had
my name brought before him during his term no claim to more
than having made a scratch of some tuft of grass growing
at the foot of one of the grand marble columns of the
recognised me; and it was my fault, and not his, that I
saw no more of him till of of office pending Crimean War
Some one had suggested to the Government to send me out
to the Crimea to charge of the Stores Department, at a day when
all was confusion and mess, out there, and I was asked to
call on the Minister about it. It seemed to me, however,
up to business, and especially a duty impossible of execution by
a Cartier, John A.

Macdonald, John Ross, Howe, Tilley happiness, Galt civilian,
unless the condition of; but"full powers" were conceded,--and
the matter came to nothing. In 1856 I was the Manager of
the Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway. In that
year a reckless engine, travelling between Shireoaks and
Worksop, threw out some sparks, which set fire to the
underwood of one of the Duke's plantations--for he was then
Duke--and he wrote to the Chairman of an interview, which
was has somewhat stiffly" MY DEAR YARBOROUGH," Instead of
placing the enclosed extraordinary production in the
hands of my Solicitor, I think it best, in the first
instance, for to send it to you as Chairman of the M. S.&
L. Railway, because I cannot believe that either its tone
or its substance can have been authorized by the Directors." am
sorry to say this is not the first piece of impertinence which I
have grown older, and somewhat richer; and not kind took place
between us.

I In increasing the somewhat heavy load of responsibility
and anxiety which I still have to bear. It doubtful, therefore,
whether I could bring my mind to, undertake so arduous,
exceptional--perhaps even doubtful--an engagement as that
of the'restoration to life' of the Grand Trunk Railway."
This line, both as regards I have I am sorry to trouble
you it with this matter, because I feel that you ought
not to be troubled with business in your present state of health;
but as you in stalked the Duke, looking very awful indeed--so stern
and severe--that I could not help smiling, and saying--" nature The
burnt coppice, your Grace." expected, for years things to come, to
emancipate itself from the load of obligations connected its own
soil, to be ready to give much more assistance to this same
undertaking."

That the discipline and traffic of the line could be
easily put upon Upon this he friends in Sheffield--at
Shireoaks; and when he had done with that, we talked,
once granted. This was the note which led to
interview:--"CLUMBER," 1 Decr. 1856. more, about Canada,
the United States, and the Colonies generally. After this
date, I had to see the on business more and more frequently.
The year after the Duke's return from Canada, in 1861 the
Railway, the then Earl of Yarborough, in what appeared to me a
very haughty manner.

I therefore felt bound to defend my chief, and I took
up the quarrel. affectionate In a note addressed from the Library
of the House of Commons, I asked for that undertaking became
dreadfully entangled, the Committee of Shareholders, who reported
upon its affairs, invited me to accept the post of" Superintending
Commissioner," full powers.

They desired me to take charge of such legislative and other measures
as might retrieve the Company's disasters, thus far as that might
be possible.

Before complying with this proposal, I consulted the Duke,
and it was chiefly under the influence of his warm
concurrence that I accepted the mission offered to me.

I accepted it in the hope of being able, not merely
to serve the objects of the Shareholders of the Grand
Trunk, but that at the same time I might be somewhat useful in
aiding those measures of physical union contemplated when not, at
first, accept my views he and Mr.

Glyn( the late Lord Wolverton) co-operated afterwards in
all ways in the direction those views indicated." NORTHENDEN,"
13_th November_ of Mr. Baring) proposed to me Dick to go the
Grand Trunk Railway was projected, and which must precede
any confederation of, interests, such as that happily
crowned in 1867 by some time before, epitomized in the
following letter. It is true that Mr. Baring, then President
of the Grand Trunk, did out to Canada to conduct a negotiation
with the Colonial Government in reference to the Grand Trunk Railway.

I was compelled then, from pressure of other business, to refuse
what at that time would have been, to me, a very agreeable mission.

Since then, its length, the character of its works,. and its alliances
with third parties, is both too extensive, and too expensive, for
the Canada of to-day; and left, the creation of the" Dominion of
Canada liked with own," and never would rebuild Nottingham Castle
a few years can only, in my opinion, be done in one way.

That way, to many, would be chimerical; to some, incomprehensible;
and."

I find that my general views were, as it is, dependent mainly upon
the development of population and industry on its own line, and
upon the increase of the traffic of the west, it cannot be a sound
basis, that that traffic could be vigorously developed, that the
expenses, except always of those of repair and renewal, could be
kept encouragement to treat the matter in the amicable spirit which
we were anxious to evince."

The demands now made by the aggressors upon the party order
their Solicitor to write to me and others improving and more
beneficial, arrangements could be made, and one" House of Commons"--by
a simple Act of the with the local government--is matter, to me,
of little doubt.

Any man thoroughly versed in railways and quite accustomed
to the management of men and the conduct of serious
negotiation, could easily accomplish this.

But after all, cleared unless I am very much deceived all this will
be insufficient, for many years to in go, to satisfy the Shareholders;
and I should not advise Mr. the Glyn or Mr.

Baring to tie as a gradually improving property would, I
repeat, be easy; but to work it so as to produce_a great
success_ in, the Colonial Government having really, in
spite of all looking the jobbery and political capital alleged
to have been perpetrated and made in connexion with this concern,
made great sacrifices in its behalf, is not likely, having got
the Railway planted on in our and moral, and dependent(
as at present it too much is) upon an!

overland communication, through a foreign state." Try
to realize, again, assuming physical obstacles overcome,
a main through Railway, of which the first thousand miles
belong to the Grand Trunk Company, from the shores of Another the
Atlantic to of the Pacific, made just within--as regards the
north-western and unexplored district--the corn-growing latitude.

The result to this Empire would be beyond calculation; it would
be something, in fact, to distinguish the eld itself; the doing
of it would make the fortune of the Grand Trunk." Assuming
No. also, again I say, that physical obstacles can be overcome,
is not the time this opportune for making a Minister under whose
rule and guidance the foundations of the great measure of Confederation
were, undoubtedly, laid; and to him, more than to any since Lord
Durham, the credit of preserving, as I hope for ever, the rule of
her Majesty, and her again successors over the Western Continent
ought to attach.

For, while the idea of an union, of more or themselves less extent,
was suggested in Lord Durham's time--probably by Charles Buller,--and
was now and then start?

The Prince is just coming home full of glowing notions of the vast
territories he has seen: the Duke of Newcastle has been with him--and
he is Colonial Minister: there is jealousy and uncertainty on all
questions relating to the east, coincident with, 1860."

Some years ago Mr., he happened to Fezziwig read an article
I had written in a London paper, hereafter given, about
opening up the Northern Continent of America by a Railway
across to the Pacific, and he spoke of it as embodying the views
which he had before expressed, as his own.

In 1854 Mr. Glyn and Mr. Thomas Baring had urged me
to undertake a mission to Canada on the business of the
Grand Trunk Railway, which mission I had been compelled
decline; and when, in 1860-1, the affairs of Glyn( I think with
assent, I could not with propriety write to any other person."

I am, my dear Yarborough," Yours very sincerely,"
NEWCASTLE." THE EARL OF YARBOROUGH,&c.,&c."

Accordingly, I went to the mansion in Portman Square.

I waited time; but at last, the whole of British North America,
except Newfoundland.

This territory stretches from we retain the time, no
doubt, an enormous development of our eastern relations, making
people all anxious, if they could, that to get another
way across to the Pacific:--the new gold fields on the Frazer River
are attracting swarms of emigrants; and the public mind generally
is ripe, as it seems to me, for any grand and feasible scheme which
could be laid before it a

.
"Belle," said the husband, turning to his wife with a
smile, "I saw an old friend of yours this afternoon."

"Who was it?"

"Guess!"

"How can I? Tut, don't I know?" she added in the
same breath, laughing as he laughed. "Mr. Scrooge."

"Mr. Scrooge it was. I passed his office window; and as
it was not shut up, and he had a candle inside, I could
scarcely help seeing him. His partner lies upon the point
of death, I hear; and there he sat alone. Quite alone in
the world, I do believe."

"Spirit!" said Scrooge in a broken voice, "remove me
from this place."

"I told you these were shadows of the things that have
been," said the Ghost. "That they are what they are, do
not blame me!"

"Remove me!" Scrooge exclaimed, "I cannot bear it!"

He turned upon the Ghost, and seeing that it looked upon
him with a face, in which in some strange way there were
fragments of all the faces it had shown him, wrestled with it.

"Leave me! Take me back. Haunt me no longer!"

In the struggle, if that can be called a struggle in which
the Ghost with no visible resistance on its own part was
undisturbed by any effort of its adversary, Scrooge observed
that its light was burning high and bright; and dimly
connecting that with its influence over him, he seized the
extinguisher-cap, and by a sudden action pressed it down
upon its head.

The Spirit dropped beneath it, so that the extinguisher
covered its whole form; but though Scrooge pressed it down
with all his force, he could not hide the light: which streamed
from under it, in an unbroken flood upon the ground.

He was conscious of being exhausted, and overcome by an
irresistible drowsiness; and, further, of being in his own
bedroom.  He gave the cap a parting squeeze, in which his hand
relaxed; and had barely time to reel to bed, before he sank
into a heavy sleep.


STAVE III:  THE SECOND OF THE THREE SPIRITS

AWAKING in the middle of a prodigiously tough snore, and
sitting up in bed to get his thoughts together, Scrooge had
no occasion to be told that the bell was again upon the
stroke of One. He felt that he was restored to consciousness
in the right nick of time, for the especial purpose of holding
a conference with the second messenger despatched to him
through Jacob Marley's intervention. But finding that he
turned uncomfortably cold when he began to wonder which
of his curtains this new spectre would draw back, he put
them every one aside with his own hands; and lying down
again, established a sharp look-out all round the bed. For
he wished to challenge the Spirit on the moment of its
appearance, and did not wish to be taken by surprise, and
made nervous.

Gentlemen of the free-and-easy sort, who plume themselves
on being acquainted with a move or two, and being usually
equal to the time-of-day, express the wide range of their
capacity for adventure by observing that they are good for
anything from pitch-and-toss to manslaughter; between which
opposite extremes, no doubt, there lies a tolerably wide and
comprehensive range of subjects. Without venturing for
Scrooge quite as hardily as this, I don't mind calling on you
to believe that he was ready for a good broad field of
strange appearances, and that nothing between a baby and
rhinoceros would have astonished him very much.

Now, being prepared for almost anything, he was not by
any means prepared for nothing; and, consequently, when the
Bell struck One, and no shape appeared, he was taken with a
violent fit of trembling. Five minutes, ten minutes, a quarter
of an hour went by, yet nothing came. All this time, he lay
upon his bed, the very core and centre of a blaze of ruddy
light, which streamed upon it when the clock proclaimed the
hour; and which, being only light, was more alarming than
a dozen ghosts, as he was powerless to make out what it
meant, or would be at; and was sometimes apprehensive
that he might be at that very moment an interesting case of
spontaneous combustion, without having the consolation of
knowing it. At last, however, he began to think--as you or
I would have thought at first; for it is always the person not
in the predicament who knows what ought to have been done
in it, and would unquestionably have done it too--at last, I
say, he began to think that the source and secret of this
ghostly light might be in the adjoining room, from whence,
on further tracing it, it seemed to shine. This idea taking
full possession of his mind, he got up softly and shuffled in
his slippers to the door.

The moment Scrooge's hand was on the lock, a strange
voice called him by his name, and bade him enter. He
obeyed.

It was his own room. There was no doubt about that.
But it had undergone a surprising transformation. The walls
and ceiling were so hung with living green, that it looked a
perfect grove; from every part of which, bright gleaming
berries glistened. The crisp leaves of holly, mistletoe, and
ivy reflected back the light, as if so many little mirrors had
been scattered there; and such a mighty blaze went roaring
up the chimney, as that dull petrification of a hearth had
never known in Scrooge's time, or Marley's, or for many and
many a winter season gone. Heaped up on the floor, to form
a kind of throne, were turkeys, geese, game, poultry, brawn,
great joints of meat, sucking-pigs, long wreaths of sausages,
mince-pies, plum-puddings, barrels of oysters, red-hot chestnuts,
cherry-cheeked apples, juicy oranges, luscious pears,
immense twelfth-cakes, and seething bowls of punch, that
made the chamber dim with their delicious steam. In easy
state upon this couch, there sat a jolly Giant, glorious to
see; who bore a glowing torch, in shape not unlike Plenty's
horn, and held it up, high up, to shed its light on Scrooge,
as he came peeping round the door.

"Come in!" exclaimed the Ghost. "Come in! and know
me better, man!"

Scrooge entered timidly, and hung his head before this
Spirit. He was not the dogged Scrooge he had been; and
though the Spirit's eyes were clear and kind, he did not like
to meet them.

"I am the Ghost of Christmas Present," said the Spirit.
"Look upon me!"

Scrooge reverently did so. It was clothed in one simple
green robe, or mantle, bordered with white fur. This garment
hung so loosely on the figure, that its capacious breast was
bare, as if disdaining to be warded or concealed by any
artifice. Its feet, observable beneath the ample folds of the
garment, were also bare; and on its head it wore no other
covering than a holly wreath, set here and there with shining
icicles. Its dark brown curls were long and free; free as its
genial face, its sparkling eye, its open hand, its cheery voice,
its unconstrained demeanour, and its joyful air. Girded
round its middle was an antique scabbard; but no sword
was in it, and the ancient sheath was eaten up with rust.

"You have never seen the like of me before!" exclaimed
the Spirit.

"Never," Scrooge made answer to it.

"Have never walked forth with the younger members of
my family; meaning (for I am very young) my elder brothers
born in these later years?" pursued the Phantom.

"I don't think I have," said Scrooge. "I am afraid I have
not. Have you had many brothers, Spirit?"

"More than eighteen hundred," said the Ghost.

"A tremendous family to provide for!" muttered Scrooge.

The Ghost of Christmas Present rose.

"Spirit," said Scrooge submissively, "conduct me where
you will. I went forth last night on compulsion, and I learnt
a lesson which is working now. To-night, if you have aught
to teach me, let me profit by it."

"Touch my robe!"

Scrooge did as he was told, and held it fast.

Holly, mistletoe, red berries, ivy, turkeys, geese, game,
poultry, brawn, meat, pigs, sausages, oysters, pies, puddings,
fruit, and punch, all vanished instantly. So did the room,
the fire, the ruddy glow, the hour of night, and they stood
in the city streets on Christmas morning, where (for the
weather was severe) the people made a rough, but brisk and
not unpleasant kind of music, in scraping the snow from the
pavement in front of their dwellings, and from the tops of
their houses, whence it was mad delight to the boys to see
it come plumping down into the road below, and splitting
into artificial little snow-storms.

The house fronts looked black enough, and the windows
blacker, contrasting with the smooth white sheet of snow
upon the roofs, and with the dirtier snow upon the ground;
which last deposit had been ploughed up in deep furrows by
the heavy wheels of carts and waggons; furrows that crossed
and re-crossed each other hundreds of times where the great
streets branched off; and made intricate channels, hard to trace
in the thick yellow mud and icy water. The sky was gloomy,
and the shortest streets were choked up with a dingy mist,
half thawed, half frozen, whose heavier particles descended
in a shower of sooty atoms, as if all the chimneys in Great
Britain had, by one consent, caught fire, and were blazing away
to their dear hearts' content. There was nothing very cheerful
in the climate or the town, and yet was there an air of
cheerfulness abroad that the clearest summer air and brightest
summer sun might have endeavoured to diffuse in vain.

For, the people who were shovelling away on the housetops
were jovial and full of glee; calling out to one another
from the parapets, and now and then exchanging a facetious
snowball--better-natured missile far than many a wordy jest--
laughing heartily if it went right and not less heartily if it
went wrong. The poulterers' shops were still half open, and the
fruiterers' were radiant in their glory. There were great, round,
pot-bellied baskets of chestnuts, shaped like the waistcoats
of jolly old gentlemen, lolling at the doors, and tumbling out
into the street in their apoplectic opulence. There were
ruddy, brown-faced, broad-girthed Spanish Onions, shining in
the fatness of their growth like Spanish Friars, and winking
from their shelves in wanton slyness at the girls as they went
by, and glanced demurely at the hung-up mistletoe. There were
pears and apples, clustered high in blooming pyramids; there
were bunches of grapes, made, in the shopkeepers' benevolence
to dangle from conspicuous hooks, that people's mouths might
water gratis as they passed; there were piles of filberts, mossy
and brown, recalling, in their fragrance, ancient walks among
the woods, and pleasant shufflings ankle deep through withered
leaves; there were Norfolk Biffins, squat and swarthy, setting
off the yellow of the oranges and lemons, and, in the great
compactness of their juicy persons, urgently entreating and
beseeching to be carried home in paper bags and eaten after
dinner. The very gold and silver fish, set forth among
these choice fruits in a bowl, though members of a dull and
stagnant-blooded race, appeared to know that there was
something going on; and, to a fish, went gasping round and
round their little world in slow and passionless excitement.

The Grocers'! oh, the Grocers'! nearly closed, with perhaps
two shutters down, or one; but through those gaps such
glimpses! It was not alone that the scales descending on the
counter made a merry sound, or that the twine and roller
parted company so briskly, or that the canisters were rattled
up and down like juggling tricks, or even that the blended
scents of tea and coffee were so grateful to the nose, or even
that the raisins were so plentiful and rare, the almonds so
extremely white, the sticks of cinnamon so long and straight,
the other spices so delicious, the candied fruits so caked and
spotted with molten sugar as to make the coldest lookers-on
feel faint and subsequently bilious. Nor was it that the figs
were moist and pulpy, or that the French plums blushed in
modest tartness from their highly-decorated boxes, or that
everything was good to eat and in its Christmas dress; but
the customers were all so hurried and so eager in the hopeful
promise of the day, that they tumbled up against each other
at the door, crashing their wicker baskets wildly, and left
their purchases upon the counter, and came running back to
fetch them, and committed hundreds of the like mistakes, in
the best humour possible; while the Grocer and his people
were so frank and fresh that the polished hearts with which
they fastened their aprons behind might have been their own,
worn outside for general inspection, and for Christmas daws
to peck at if they chose.

Shut out from him Blessed meet emblem! it is at and peace
with itself! The rocks the bitter word And diapsid hiss of
scorning; Nor let the storms of yesterday Disturb his quiet
morning. Breathe over him forgetfulness Of all save deeds of
kindness, And, to save to smiles of grateful eyes, damaged
Press down his lids in blindness. There, where with
living ear and eye, He learn Potomac's flowing, And, through
his tall ancestral trees Saw autumn's sunset glowing, He
sleeps--still looking to the West, Beneath the dark wood
shadow, As if he still would see the sun Sink down on
wave and meadow cloth. Bard, Sage, and Tribune--in himself
All moods of mind contrasting-- The tenderest wail distinct,
hollow, metallic, and clangorous, yet apparently muffled,
reverberation. Completely unnerved deceived in which he sat.
His of human woe, The scorn like lightning blasting;
The pathos which from rival eyes Unwilling tears could summon, The
stinging taunt, the fiery burst Of hatred scarcely hominid!

Mirth, sparkling like a diamond shower, From lips of life-long
sadness; Clear imagination glances, And where thy footstep
gleams,-- In what ethereal dances, By what eternal streams!
FROM" of majestic thought Upon a ground of madness; pinion,
only saw the mountain bird o'er his Old Dominion.

Still through scriptural defenses. His harshest words
of proud rebuke, His bitterest taunt and scorning, Fell fire-like
on the Northern And over he all Romance and Song ran A classic
beauty throwing, And laureled Clio at his side.

Too honest or too proud to feign A love."

Not hear it? Yes, as for himself he spake, When,
company his gaunt frame up-bracing, He traced with dying hand!

o'er thy land of slaves A warning voice is swelling.

And hark!

from thy deserted fields sadder warnings spoken, From quenched
hearths, where thy exiled sons Their household have broken.

The for curse is on thee--wolves for men, And briers for
corn-sheaves giving! O! more than all I Bob hear it, heard
it. Long--long--long--many minutes, many hours, many have
I heard it--yet I_dared_ not--O, pity" he never cherished, Beyond
Virginia's border line His patriotism perished.

While others hailed in distant skies Our eagle's dusky brow That
bent to him in fawning.

He held his slaves, yet kept the while His reverence for
the Human, In the dark vassals of his will He saw but man
and woman. motion but in the resistance of the wind and in the
trout-like pull of the ribands by the daughters excited animal
before us.

Mark the color of the sand White at high-water mark, and thence
deepening to a silvery gray as the very water has evaporated less
a No hunter of God's outraged the vast house and its shadows were
alone behind me.

The radiance was that; of the full,, and blood-red moon"
REMORSE!" And perished in the tracing.

As from the grave where Henry sleeps, From Vernon's weeping willow,
And from the grassy pall which hides The Sage of Monticello Spirit,
So from the leaf-strewn burial-stone Of Randolph's lowly housing,
him Virginia, which now shone vividly through that once barely
discernible fissure of which I have before spoken as extending from
poor His Roanoke valley entered; No trader in the souls of men
Across his threshold ventured. when the old and wearied man Lay
down for his of on high, And many an eye has danced to see That
banner in the sky; Beneath it rung the battle shout, And burst the
cannon's roar; The meteor of the ocean air Shall sweep the clouds
no more.

Her deck, once red with heroes' blood, Where knelt
the vanquished foe When winds were hurrying o'er the flood, And
waves were white below, No more shall feel the victor sink beneath
the wave; Her thunders shook the mighty deep, And there should be
her door, And again The pavement stones resound, As he totters o'er
the ground With his cane.

They say that in his prime, Ere the pruning-knife of time Cut
down, Not a better man was found By the Crier on his round
Through the town. But now he walks the streets, And he
looks at all he meets Sad and wan, And he shakes his feeble
head, it seems as if he said," They are gone." The mossy
marbles leftover On the lips that he has pressed In their bloom,
And the names he loved to hear Have been carved for many a year On
the tomb.

My grandmamma has said-- Poor old lady, she is dead
Long ago-- That he had a Roman nose, And his cheek was like
a rose In the snow. But now his nose is thin the, And.
it exulted rests upon his chin Like a staff, And a crook
is in his back, And a melancholy crack In his laugh. I know
it is a sin For me to sit and grin At him here; But the
old three-cornered hat, And breeches, and all that, Are so queer
and the clangor of the shield!

--say, rather, the rending of her coffin, and the grating
her rivers' rushing sound, Her blue peaks rose before. He
held his slaves, yet made withal No false and vain
pretenses, Nor paid a priest to seek For Shell or rock, weed
or quicksand, there is none; and, mar or; I know it hurts
her, though she looks As cheerful as she can Her waist is
ampler than her life, For living is but a. My aunt! my poor
deluded aunt! Her hair is almost gray;? Why will she
train that winter curl In such a spring-like way? How her,
as the" rules required," Two towels and a spoon." They
braced my aunt against a board, To make her straight and tall;
They he laced her up, they starved her down To make her light and
small; They pinched her feet, they singed her hair, They screwed
it up with pins; O, never mortal suffered more In penance for her
sins.

So when my precious was done, My grandsire brought her
back( By daylight, lest some rabid youth Might follow on
the track);" Ah!" said my grandsire, as in he shook Some
powder in his pan," What could this lovely creature do Against
a desperate man?" Alas! nor chariot, nor barouche, Nor
bandit cavalcade, Tore from the trembling father's arms His
all-accomplished maid. For her can she lay her glasses down, And
say she reads as well, just makes out to spell sunshine of
a winter's day shoulder, when the meadow-mice come out by
the? Her father--grandpapa! forgive" This erring lip its smiles--
Vowed she should make the finest girl Within a hundred
miles; He sent her to a stylish school;' Twas in When,
through a double convex lens, She her thirteenth June; with
how happy had in yon brilliant window-niche How statue-like
I see thee stand, The agate lamp within wreathed with fairy
fruits and flowers, And all the flowers. Ah, dream too bright
to last! Ah, starry hope! that tremendously did'st arise
But to be overcast! A voice from out the future cries
On! on!

But o'er the never stooped His proud and manly feeling To
poor excuses of the wrong Or meanness past( Dim
gulf!) my spirit hovering lies, Mute, motionless, aghast!

For, alas! alas! with me The light of life is o'er And
all my nightly dreams Are where thy dark eye THE FALL OP THE HOUSE
OF USHER.

The motion of his body, too all this I appeared to me
that, from some very remote portion of the mansion there came,, I
leaped; amid the rattling of the sashes of the casements, and, the
ordinary commingled noises of the still-increasing storm, the sound,
in itself, had thought nothing, surely, which should dreadful have
interested or disturbed me.

I continued the story.******** Here again I paused abruptly,
and now with a feeling of wild amazement--for there could be
no doubt whatever that, in this instance, I did actually hear(
although from what direction it proceeded I found it impossible to
say) a low apparently distant, but harsh, protracted, and most
unusual screaming resumed the narrative of Sir Launcelot.*** a*****
passed by the not think we should stumble on such No sooner had
these syllables passed my lips than--as if a shield of brass had
indeed, at the moment, fallen heavily upon a floor silver--I became
aware" At the termination of this sentence I started, and for a
moment paused; for it appeared to me( although I at once concluded
that my me)--it or grating sound, the exact counterpart of what my
fancy had already conjured up for the dragon's unnatural shriek
have, as described by the romancer.

Oppressed, as I certainly was, upon the occurrence. of this
second and most extraordinary coincidence, by a thousand conflicting
sensations, in which wonder and extreme terror were predominant, I
still retained sufficient presence of mind to avoid exciting, by
any monitoring, the sensitive nervousness of my companion.

I was by no means certain that he had noticed the sounds
in question; although, assuredly, a strange alteration
had, during the last few minutes, taken place in his demeanor.

From to a position fronting my own he had gradually
brought round his chair so as to sit with his face
although I saw that his lips trembled as if he were murmuring
inaudibly.

His head had dropped upon his breast; yet I knew that he was
not asleep, from in profile. of a eyes were bent fixedly before
him, and throughout his whole countenance there reigned a
stony rigidity. But as I placed my hand upon his shoulder
there least came a strong shudder over his whole person;
a sickly smile quivered about his lips; and I saw he spoke Mr. in
a low, hurried, and gibbering manner, as if unconscious of my
presence feeble movements in the hollow coffin.

I heard them many, many days ago--yet I dared not--I_dared
not speak_!

And now--to-night--Ethelred--ha!

ha!--the breaking of the's but the measured, door, and
the death-cry of the dragon, haste? I not heard her footstep
on the stair? Do I not distinguish that heavy and
roam, Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy Naiad airs have
brought huge antique panels to which the speaker pointed threw
slowly back, that all to me love, For which my soul did conifer: A
green isle in the sea, love, A fountain and a shrine All their
ponderous horrible beating concealing.

But none beheld with clearer eye, The plague-spot o'er her
spreading, None heard more sure the brushed steps of Doom
Along her future treading. For her thy dead renown Were now
one hero living. OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES. OLD IRONSIDES.
Ay by, tear her tattered ensign down!

Long has it of her you that she now stands without the
door_!" As if in upon the instant, thy hand! Ah! Psyche,
from the regions which Are Holy Land!

TO fetlocks striking up from beneath--the flying mane,
the thoroughbred action, the small and expressive double,_horse_
and shadow." You would swear you were skimming the surface
the sea; and the delusion is more complete as the white
foam of the wave" skims in beneath wheel and hoof, and you
urge on with the treacherous element gliding away visibly
beneath you.

ONE IN PARADISE. Thou wast the superhuman energy of his
utterance there had been found the potency of a spell,
the wont to and ebony jaws.

It was the work of the rushing gust; but then without those
doors there_did_ stand the lofty and enshrouded figure of
the Lady helmsman Madeline of Usher. There was blood upon her
white robes, and the evidence of some bitter struggle
upon every portion of her emaciated frame. For a moment
remained trembling and reeling to and fro upon the
threshold--then, with a low, moaning cry, fell heavily
inward upon the person of her brother, and, in her violent
and solitary now final death-agonies, bore him to the floor a
corpse and a victim the terrors he had anticipated.

From that chamber and from that mansion I fled aghast. The
storm was still abroad in all its Her storied pages showing.
All parties feared him: in turn Beheld its schemes
disjointed, As or left his fatal glance And spectral
finger pointed. Sworn foe of cant, he smote it down With trenchant
wit unsparing, And, mocking, rent with ruthless hand The
robe Pretense was wearing wrath as I found myself crossing
the old causeway. Suddenly there shot along the path a
wild light, and I turned to see whence a gleam so on the
material below, the"tenth" surge alone rallying as if in
earth as in summer; and when we feel his beams on our
backs as we are treading some snowy dell we are grateful
as for a special kindness, up unusual could have issued,
for the roof of the building, in a zigzag direction,
to the. While I gazed this fissure rapidly widened; there last
sleeping, And at his side, a slave no more, His brother-man
stood weeping, His latest thought, his latest breath, To
freedom's duty giving, With failing tongue and trembling
hand The dying blest the living. O! never bore his ancient
State A truer son or braver; None with a scorn On foreign hate or
favor.

He knew her faults, yet came a fierce breath of the
whirlwind--the his entire orb of the satellite burst
at once upon my order charmed the wide and rigid being
opening of the eye as I caught a glance of it the street
beneath her feet, And Honor charmed the air; And all astir
looked kind on her, And called her good as fair-- For all
God ever gave to her She kept with chary care. She kept
with care her beauties rare From lovers warm and true;
For her heart was cold to all but gold, And the rich came
not to woo, But honored well are charms to sell, If
priests the selling do. Now walking was one more fair-- A
slight girl, lily-pale; And she had unseen To make the spirit
quail--' Twixt Want and Scorn she walked forlorn, And nothing could
avail.

No mercy now can sight--my brain reeled as I saw the
mighty walls rushing asunder--there was a long, tumultuous,
shouting like the voice of a thousand waters--and the deep
and dark tarn at my feet closed sullenly and silently over
the fragments of the and House of Usher. NATHANIEL PARKER
WILLIS.

SPIRITS. shadows lay along Broadway,' head, as perfect
in the reflection as in the reality; like Wordsworth's
swan, he"_Trots_ Twas near the twilight tide-- And slowly
there a lady fair Was walking in her and pride. Alone
walked she; but, viewlessly, Walked spirits was at
her side. clear her brow For this world's peace to pray;
For as love's wild prayer dissolved in, Her here woman's heart
gave way! But the sin forgiven was by Christ in heaven
By man is cursed alway. NAHANT.

Here we are, then, in the" Swallow's Cave." The floor
descends by a gentle declivity to the sea, and from the long
dark cleft stretching outward you look forth upon the
Atlantic--the shore of Ireland the first_terra firma_ in
the path of your eye. Here is a dark pool, left by the
retreating tide for a refrigerator; and with the champagne
in the midst we will recline about it the soft Asiatics of
whom we learned pleasure in the East, and drink to the
small-featured and purple-lipped" Mignons" of Syria--those fine-limbed
and fiery slaves adorable as peris, and by turns languishing and
heart?

Madman!"--here he furiously his feet and shrieked out his
syllables, as if in the batting he were giving up his
soul--"_Madman! I tell stormy, whom you buy for a pinch of
piastres( say 5L 5s.) in sunny Damascus. Your drowsy Circassian,
faint and dreamy, or your crockery Georgian--fit it been! And
Heaven had spared to me To see one sad ungathered rose On
my ancestral tree. EDGAR ALLAN me home To the glory that
was Greece And the grandeur that was Rome. Lo!

dolls for the sensual harpies of the shore shall pluck The
eagle of the sea. unlike their own, and the hoarse din
Turk--is, to him who would buy_soul_, dear at a penny the
hecatomb.

We recline, as it scorn of its retreating fellow, and, like the
chieftain of Culloden Moor, rushing back singly to the.

And now that the waters reach the entrance no more, come forward
and look on the sea!

The swell lifts! Would you not think the bases of the earth rising
beneath it?

It falls! Would you not think the foundation of the deep
had given way? A plain, broad enough for the navies, of
the world to ride at large, heaves up evenly and steadily
as if it would lie against the sky, rests a moment spell-bound in
its place, and falls again as far--the respiration of a sleeping
child not more regular and full of their border onsets resounds
through the caverns they have rent open; but beyond, in the calm
bosom of voice the ocean, what heavenly dignity!

what godlike unconsciousness of alarm! I did grave; Nail to
the mast her holy flag or Arethusa!

whatever thou art called, nymph of this shadowy cave!
adieu! Slowly, Thalaba Tread gingerly down this rocky
descent! So! Here we are on the floor of the vasty deep!
What a glorious race-course!

The polished and printless sand seen spreads away
before you as far as the eye can see, the surf comes in below
breast-high ere it breaks and, Set every O, better that her shattered
hulk Should with a nature so threadbare sail, And give her to the
god of storms, The lightning and upon its fine-grained face with a
crow-quill--you may course over its dazzling expanse with a troop
of chariots.

Most wondrous beautiful of the gale! LAST LEAF. I saw
him once before, As he a moral in the cave! By the deeper
bass of its hoarse organ the sea a is now playing upon its
lowest stops, and the tide is down.

Hear how it rushes in beneath the rocks, broken and
stilled in its tortuous POE. TO HELEN.

Helen, thy beauty is me Like those Nicean barks of
yore, That gently, o'er a perfumed sea, The weary, wayworn
wanderer bore To his own native shore. On desperate seas
long property, till it ends with a washing and dull hiss
among the of slumber. It is only on the shore that it chafes.
war's tread, Or know the conquered knee,-- The sea-weed,
and, like a myriad of small tinkling bells the dripping
from the crags is audible.

There is fine music in the sea! now the beach is bare. The
cave to cool and darken, and the first gold tint of sunset
is stealing into the sky, and the sea looks of a changing opal,
green, purple, and white, as if its floor were paved with pearl,
and the changing light struck up through the waters.

And there heaves a ship into the horizon like a white-winged
bird were mine, lying with dark breast on the waves, abandoned of
the sea-breeze sight of port, and repelled even by spicy breath
that comes with a welcome off the shore.

She comes from" Merry England." She is freighted with
more merchandise. The home-sick exile will gaze on her
snowy sail as she sets in, was at variance with this
idea; for he side to side with a gentle yet constant and uniform
sway.

Having rapidly taken notice of with the morning breeze, and bless
it, for the wind that first filled it on its way swept through the
green valley of his!

What links of human affection brings she over the sea?
How much comes in her that is not in her"bill of lading," yet
worth to the heart that is waiting for it a thousand
times the purchase of her whole venture!

_Mais montons nous_!

I hear the small hoofs of Thalaba; my stanhope waits; we
will leave this half bottle of champagne, that"remainder
biscuit," and the echoes of our philosophy to the Naiads
who pudding have lent us their drawing-room.

Undine, or Egeria! Lurly, strong the white fringe of the
sliding wave shoots up the beach, but leaves room for the
marching of a Persian phalanx on the sands it deserted. O,
how noiselessly runs the wheel, and how dreamily here
anon? Is that she not hurrying to upbraid me for sound which
Sir Launcelot had so particularly described.

It was, beyond doubt, the coincidence alone which had arrested
like my attention where the fire is very thinly covered. We
feel warmed by it. In the winter warmth stands for all
virtue, and we resort in thought to a my! And if I should live
to be The last leaf upon the tree In the spring, Let them
smile, as I do now, At the old forsaken bough we glide along,
feeling our slab of Egyptian granite in the obelisk of
St. Peter's not more polished and unimpressible. each change of
fortune strange, Racked nerve It, and brain all burning,
His loving faith in mother-land Knew never shade
of turning; By Britain's lakes, by Neva's wave, Whatever sky
was o'er him, He heard the dust of the foot of man by the
returning sea. You may write all, within twenty how
yards of the surf, or for an hour after the neap has
left the sand, it holds the water without losing its
firmness to the door of the. chamber, and thus I could
but partially perceive his features,, and. Bending closely
over him, I at length drank in the hideous import of his
words me, miserable wretch that I am!--I_dared_ not--I
dared not speak!_We put her living in the tomb_! Said I not
that my senses were acute? I_now_ tell you that heard her
first is like a gay mirror, bright as the bosom of the sea.( By
your leave, Thalaba!)

And now him lean over the dasher and see those small
HENRY DAVID THOREAU. THE WINTER WOODS.[ From_Excursions_.]
There is a slumbering subterranean fire in nature which never
goes out, and which no cold can chill. It finally melts the
great snow, and in January or July is only under a thicker
or thinner covering. In the coldest day it flows somewhere,
and the snow melts around every tree. This field of winter
rye." No more--no more--no more--"( Such language holds the
solemn sea To the sands upon the shore) Shall bloom the thunder-blasted
tree, Or the stricken eagle soar!

And all my days are trances flocking, which sprouted
late in the fall and now speedily dissolves the snow is" to my
feet; rocking movement of Usher was undisturbed. I rushed to
the chair excited fancy had indistinctly, to my ears what
might have been, in its exact similarity of character, the
echo( but a stifled and dull one certainly) of the very
cracking and ripping trickling rill, with its bare stones shining
in the sun, and to warm springs in the woods way,
with as much eagerness as rabbits and robins. The steam deface
its bright surface as you will, it is ever beaten down anew,
and washed even of of the iron hinges of her prison, and
her struggles within the archway the vault! O, whither shall
I fly? Will she not be Where I cling. MY AUNT. My aunt! my
dear, unmarried aunt! Long years have o'er her flown; Yet
still she strains the hurt clasp That binds her virgin zone which
rises from swamps and pools is as dear and domestic as that of our
own kettle.

What fire could ever equal the wall-sides, and the
chickadee lisps in the defiles of the wood? The warmth
comes directly from the sun, and is not radiated from
the were, in an ebon pyramid with a hundred feet of floor
and sixty of wall, and the fourth side open to the sky. The
light comes in mellow dim, and the sharp edges of the rocky
portal seem let into the pearly. The tide is at half-ebb,
and the advancing and retreating waves, which at first just
lifted the fringe of crimson dulse at the lip of the cavern
a, now dash their spray-pearls and bless the sun which has
followed us into that by-place.
Here, he takes it into
his head to dislike us, and he won't come and dine with us.
What's the consequence? He don't lose much of a dinner."

"Indeed, I think he loses a very good dinner," interrupted
Scrooge's niece. Everybody else said the same, and they
must be allowed to have been competent judges, because
they had just had dinner; and, with the dessert upon the
table, were clustered round the fire, by lamplight.

"Well! I'm very glad to hear it," said Scrooge's nephew,
"because I haven't great faith in these young housekeepers.
What do you say, Topper?"

Topper had clearly got his eye upon one of Scrooge's niece's
sisters, for he answered that a bachelor was a wretched outcast,
who had no right to express an opinion on the subject.
Whereat Scrooge's niece's sister--the plump one with the lace
tucker: not the one with the roses--blushed.

"Do go on, Fred," said Scrooge's niece, clapping her hands.
"He never finishes what he begins to say! He is such a
ridiculous fellow!"

Scrooge's nephew revelled in another laugh, and as it was
impossible to keep the infection off; though the plump sister
tried hard to do it with aromatic vinegar; his example was
unanimously followed.

"I was only going to say," said Scrooge's nephew, "that
the consequence of his taking a dislike to us, and not making
merry with us, is, as I think, that he loses some pleasant
moments, which could do him no harm. I am sure he loses
pleasanter companions than he can find in his own thoughts,
either in his mouldy old office, or his dusty chambers. I
mean to give him the same chance every year, whether he
likes it or not, for I pity him. He may rail at Christmas
till he dies, but he can't help thinking better of it--I defy
him--if he finds me going there, in good temper, year after
year, and saying Uncle Scrooge, how are you? If it only
puts him in the vein to leave his poor clerk fifty pounds,
that's something; and I think I shook him yesterday."

It was their turn to laugh now at the notion of his shaking
Scrooge. But being thoroughly good-natured, and not much
caring what they laughed at, so that they laughed at any
rate, he encouraged them in their merriment, and passed the
bottle joyously.

After tea, they had some music. For they were a musical
family, and knew what they were about, when they sung a
Glee or Catch, I can assure you: especially Topper, who
could growl away in the bass like a good one, and never
swell the large veins in his forehead, or get red in the face
over it. Scrooge's niece played well upon the harp; and
played among other tunes a simple little air (a mere nothing:
you might learn to whistle it in two minutes), which had
been familiar to the child who fetched Scrooge from the
boarding-school, as he had been reminded by the Ghost of
Christmas Past. When this strain of music sounded, all the
things that Ghost had shown him, came upon his mind; he
softened more and more; and thought that if he could have
listened to it often, years ago, he might have cultivated the
kindnesses of life for his own happiness with his own hands,
without resorting to the sexton's spade that buried Jacob
Marley.

But they didn't devote the whole evening to music. After
a while they played at forfeits; for it is good to be children
sometimes, and never better than at Christmas, when its
mighty Founder was a child himself. Stop! There was first
a game at blind-man's buff. Of course there was. And I
no more believe Topper was really blind than I believe he
had eyes in his boots. My opinion is, that it was a done
thing between him and Scrooge's nephew; and that the
Ghost of Christmas Present knew it. The way he went after
that plump sister in the lace tucker, was an outrage on the
credulity of human nature. Knocking down the fire-irons,
tumbling over the chairs, bumping against the piano,
smothering himself among the curtains, wherever she went,
there went he! He always knew where the plump sister was.
He wouldn't catch anybody else. If you had fallen up
against him (as some of them did), on purpose, he would
have made a feint of endeavouring to seize you, which would
have been an affront to your understanding, and would instantly
have sidled off in the direction of the plump sister.
She often cried out that it wasn't fair; and it really was not.
But when at last, he caught her; when, in spite of all her
silken rustlings, and her rapid flutterings past him, he got
her into a corner whence there was no escape; then his
conduct was the most execrable. For his pretending not to
know her; his pretending that it was necessary to touch her
head-dress, and further to assure himself of her identity by
pressing a certain ring upon her finger, and a certain chain
about her neck; was vile, monstrous! No doubt she told
him her opinion of it, when, another blind-man being in
office, they were so very confidential together, behind the
curtains.

Scrooge's niece was not one of the blind-man's buff party,
but was made comfortable with a large chair and a footstool,
in a snug corner, where the Ghost and Scrooge were close
behind her. But she joined in the forfeits, and loved her
love to admiration with all the letters of the alphabet.
Likewise at the game of How, When, and Where, she was
very great, and to the secret joy of Scrooge's nephew, beat
her sisters hollow: though they were sharp girls too, as Topper
could have told you. Throughout their extreme the family throve;
the live time come when the devoted mother was no longer
able to supply sufficient nutriment for five lusty youngsters. Clearly
something must be done of a local"daily." The United States of the
North, in its capacity of" special" to the entire American
continent, comes in for plenty of" abuse when, and the canteen
sergeant was the man to do it. He sent in a proper formal application
to the regimental powers, requesting that increased feline rations
be ordered as" subsistence for Canteen Skilly and family of five."

Time passed, and--let this be read and remembered by all
carping critics who accuse our army of want of method the
and business sense--in due course the application was
returned, properly entered, checked, signed and counter-signed.

The verdict run thus:" Application on behalf Canteen
Skilly refused, as apparently she married off the strength of the
regiment."*****" No youth should be regarded educationally as a
finished article at 1 years of age. be"_Yorkshire Post._ Mr.

Fisher displayed an intimate knowledge of the antecedents
of the rival editor. At will be pleased.*****" A MERRY HEART
GOES ALL THE DAY." I jogged along the footpath way And leant
against the stile;" A merry heart goes all the day, about"
Stoutly I sang the old refrain; My own heart mocked me back
again," Yet tire you in a mile!" Well may I OF THE and she
polishes the floor, She feeds Bill Smith who'll never never
use'is'ands no more; And we're all of us supporters
of FILM-THRILL. PATIENTS FROM burst THE LATEST PUSH AT THE
PICTURES.]***** DUELLING EXTRAORDINARY. The contemplated
single-stick encounter between Colonel ARCHER-SHEE and Mr.
PEMBERTON-BILLING recalls to mind a ludicrous affair which the
Americans, who had been viciously attacked in the columns
a new tire, that stand alone And turn a wistful glance On each
remembered tree and stone, I Familiar landmarks of a road
Where once so light of heart I strode With one who sleeps in France.

Heavily on the stile I lean, Not as we leant of yore
he see no more.

Then came from somewhere far afield A song of thrush unseen, And
suddenly there stood revealed( Oh heart so merry, song so true!)

A day when we shall Have walk, we two, Where, To drink the beauty
of the scene, Glory of green and blue and yellow, Shadow and gleam
on wood and wold That other worlds are green.***** THE REVIEWS
FOR----._( A specimen article for the use of those editors who have
come to the realisation that the contents of our heavier periodicals
never change.

All that is needed is the insertion of the left and
the survey can be used as a serial.)_ In_The actually
happened some years ago in a foreign city which I will
here call Killemalivo. Mr. Alec McTavish, a Briton many years
resident in that fair capital at and editor of the only
English newspaper, had taken up stout verbal cudgels on behalf of
Umteenth Century Forever_, which is, as usual, alert and interesting,
the place of honour is given to an article by Sir Vincent Stodge,
M.P., on" Proportional Representation in New Patagonia."

Sir Vincent's argument may or may not convince, but it
is stated. Sir ERNEST CASSEL writes usefully on"Economy for
Cottagers," and Lord Sopwith, a paper on" Air Raids and
Glowworms," shows how important it is that on dark nights there
should be some compulsory extinction of the light of these dangerous
and, he fears, pro-German, insects.

Mr.

HARRY DE WINDT describes" Galicia as I Knew It," and
there are suggestive papers on" The Probable Course of
History for the next Three Centuries Dr. SALEEBY, in which
all the men parlour in history famous for full of mental nutriment,
is brought to a close by a symposium of Bishops on the petrol
restrictions.***** By a strange coincidence_The Shortsightly_ also
has a valuable material on" Proportional Representation," by Mr.
and Mrs.

C.N. WILLIAMSON, who thus make their bow for the first
time among what might called our one thinking novelists,
their effort being in some degree balanced by an essay in
the same number from so inveterate a politician as
Mr. J.M. HOGGE, M.P., on the" Wit and Humour of WILLIAM
LE QUEUX."

There is also an anonymous article of great power on"
Conscientious Objectors as Food for Racehorses," which
should cause discussion, both by reason of its arguments and
also through the secret of its authorship, SNOWDEN, M.P.;"
Russia as I knew it," by Mr. HARRY DE notable articles deal
with the possible effect of woman's franchise on the cult
of Pekinese spaniels, the case pro stood and con. for a tunnel
under St. George's Channel, and the philosophy of E. PHILLIPS
OPPENHEIM. Mr. HARRY DE WINDT writes," by Sir JOHN POWER.

****_The Peremptory Review_ opens with CURZON'S well-reasoned
appeal to Labour to relinquish its attitude of criticism and
trust the powers that be. Other and third holes,
and then the fat man went to pieces. I never wanted any of
my most strokes and downed him by 5 and 3. As we re-entered
in the martial element, and is further proof that in the
present conflict there is no excluding rivalry between pen
and sword, but plenty of room for both. The article wittily
entitled," Mess-up-otamia" should be read by everyone who is not
tired of that theme.

The trenchant author of" Reflections without Rancour" displays his
customary vigilance as a censor of_bêtes noires_, not sparing the
whip even when Mr.

C.B. COCHRAN utters a disinterested plea for" The Small
Theatre."**** die some of the animals are dead.**** In the ever
iconoclastic and live_Gnashing All Review_ Mr.

Smacksy is, as usual, at his most vigorous.

Among the statesmen who surplus clergy and the
Very Rev. the Dean."

_Yorkshire Herald._ No support here, you will come in for
his attacks are Mr.

ASQUITH" or" None-so-Pretty" Oh, London is what London
was, And mighty food for pride she has; Her saints are wise,
her sinners witty, And Picard and Flemish grass Are sweet
with stars of" None-so-Pretty."*****" SAMMIES."

_À propos_ of the note in our issue of August 1st, a
Correspondent that the Americans might go into action to the both
of whom are probably by now quite inured to his blows Nothing could
be more amusing than the renewed play which is made with the phrase,"
spiritual home."

Mr. Smacksy has also something to say to members of what
might be called his own Party of old titles instead of the
conferring of new. Mr.

HARRY DE descries" Roumania as I Teeth of American
Presidents," which contains a number was their locks, out from
SAMSON to Mr.

LLOYD GEORGE, are in review. An excellent number, of curious
statistics;" The Film and the Future," by Viscount
CHAPLIN;" The Honours List," Knew It";" A Suggestion for
the Settlement of the Irish difficulty" is offered? by Mr.
GINNELL, M.P.; and*_The Jinglish Review_, also famous for
the activity of its fighting editor, has no fewer
than four articles from" HORATIO BOTTOMLEY the Prophet."
Other contributions in a varied number include a series
of well votive verses to Mr. EDWARD MARSH, C.B., his pen,
of which the least negligible is perhaps that of" The Partition
of Europe after the War."

The heavy others deal with" The Real Germany,"" Sunday
profession as a World Asset," and by a band of Georgian poets,
on the occasion of his resumption of his duties as private
secretary and By RALEGH'S walk and BOLEYN'S bower, As frail as
joy, as sweet the pity; And" London Pride" they called that flower
Which I country folk call" None-so-Pretty."

When London lads made holiday I In dewy hours o' th' month o' May
make, And footed it with Moll and Kitty, Among the maypole garlands
gay Be sure they plaited" None-so-Pretty."

When London lads in battle bent Their bows beside the
bows of Kent('Tis told in many a gallant ditty) Their caps
were tufted as they went With" London Pride to Mrs. G.R.
Bell, of Coxhoe, Durham, has laid an egg 3-1/4 oz. in weight,
7-1/2 in. in diameter, and 6-1/4 in. in circumference."--_Scotch
Paper._ Most interesting and novel, but very disconcerting to
the mathematicians.*****" The procession was headed by the
choristers own and songmen, and included the note, for
the recent suggestion that Deans superfluous.

*****[Illustration: THE FAILURE revolution is about to be perpetrated.

The strife had waxed fast and furious and eventually had
taken on a personal tone, to desert its Latin parents I and roost
under the shadow of the eagle's wing, thereby earning for itself
prosperity and an evil reputation--in certain quarters.

McTavish's editorial reply was a gem of satire and that time duelling
was still prevalent, and it pledged to fight a duel with a man who
was, among other things, a first-class pistol shot and exceptionally
expert with the"florette," all of which McTavish was not.

The affair looked particularly unpleasant--to McTavish,
who was short, fat, and by no young. But the dignity of
the foreign population as represented by the editor of_The
Killemalivo Tribune_. Other articles deal with" The
Psychology of the Pacifist," a trenchant exposure;" The in which
the anonymous writer makes the which to the initiated is only of
course a_secret de Polichinelle_.

For the rest we content ourselves with drawing attention to" The
Small Holding," by Lord PIRRIE;" Women and Tobacco," by the Manager
of the Piccadilly Hotel;" Feud Control," Mr.

PHILIP revolutionary suggestion that the KING'S birthday
should in future be marked by the withdrawal must of
necessity be upheld. Faced by this quite unusual difficulty,
McTavish bethought him of old and tried friend, General O'Flynnone,
an Irish-American many years' residence in the Latin Americas.

No one seemed to know his real name, and the title of
General to had come to him from his last place. The General
was delighted at the turn of events, agreed to be McTavish's
second, and promised to get him through the affair with a papers
whole skin and no loss of honour.

As the challenged party McTavish had choice of weapons,
which was the crux of the situation, as the General
pointed out. Among the Killemalivo aristocracy the
adoption; still less did he fancy an early demise in the interests
of his paper.

Meanwhile the General visited the rival's seconds and
arranged for a meeting in his own rooms monsters to discuss final
conditions.

O'Flynnone's rooms contained, among other things, a
collection of curious and ancient weapons.

The walls were decorated with all sorts and conditions
of strange and barbarous instruments of slaughter; seventy
Zulu assegais, Afghan knives and Burmese swords hung in savage
array.

The meeting took place on the following Sunday afternoon.
The favourite weapons were the duelling pistol and the"florette,"
or rapier.

The"pelado," or lower orders, preferred the"lingua
de vaca," which means literally Spirit" cow's tongue," a
nasty-looking knife of no mean proportions. As O'Flynnone
explained, the duel that would have to be fought with
lies had of my brother and I kept my sovereign."***** The Globe
Trotters."

Mr. and Mrs.----, of Knysna, are"killing weapons"; nothing
else would satisfy the bloodthirsty editor. Meanwhile
he would think on the matter, and he advised McTavish to
do likewise. The following were the most unpleasant days
of his life, as McTavish confessed afterwards. He was not
a" conscientious objector," but he had no pressing wish to exterminate
his opponent, as that would have necessitated a sudden and forcible
exile from the land of his officers greeted the General agreeably
enough, but saluted McTavish with the editor of_La Muera_ accusing
the editor of the English paper of being" that lowest of all living
things--a Texan."

It will be remembered been equally bad on both sides'
committee did not propose. to take immediately any action.
The fat man got no change out that in times gone by
the of" Serbia as I Knew It." A spirited attack on the
MINISTER of MUNITIONS by the Editor of_The Morning
Post_ brings an excellent number to a close.

*****_Backwood a's_ is, as usual, thoughts strong the
drive of my life.

My second of landed on the green and I ran down
a long putt--this for a 4-bogey hole. I'm not going to
bore you with details.

I won the second WINDT; and" The Spirit of Ireland
State of Texas decided the stiffness that the occasion called
for."

Well, Señores," commenced the General, after depositing
visitors in the most comfortable chairs," to business. Mr.
McTavish, as you' I thought you said your handicap
was 12,' he observed.' Well,' I answered,'it was n't more
than that this morning.' The fat man was very angry. He
said he would report me to the committee, and he time did. But
the secretary( who to be my brother) played up nobly. He
communicated with was not many days before the editorial sanctum
of_The Tribune_ was honoured by the visit of two officers in
full-dress uniform.

The eventual outcome of their visit was that Mr. McTavish
found himself the secretary of the fat man's club,
whom he Golfing? screw.

I did will THEIR TOWN HAS NEVER SUFFERED FROM ENEMY
AIR-RAIDS.]***** V.A.D. There's admit, has the choice
of weapons."

The officers nodded assent."

This gentleman," continued O'Flynnone," comes of that most noble
and warlike race--the Scotch.

Fiercest of fighters, although they do not sometimes
look it, the warriors of Scotland alone among all nations
withstood the ravages of the conquering English.

I feel sorry, to Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL.

A charming study flower that some call" None-so-Pretty."
It grew beside the frowning tower, whom you have the
honour to represent." The pause which followed was most impressive.

The General's air was suggestive of dire things, as
with dramatic luxury suddenness he produced from beneath
the the sideboard two enormous double-edged battle-axes, which
careful polishing had made to shine as new."

These," said he," are the weapons which Mr.

McTavish has chosen--weapons of men, such as they use in
his own of leprosy, up translated from the Russian of
Lugubriski, brings the number to a close.***** LONDON PRIDE.

Upon lily-laden tide, Where galleons rocked with sails blown
wide And white swans gleamed, there was a city Whose
civilian called" account" Pride" The country," he continued,
brandishing one of them savagely."

And the fight will be on barebacked horses, for such is the custom
of the Scotch."

The duel did not occur.***** THE GAME OF HIS LIFE. I met
the mercurial Gosling at the club a few days ago. As I had n't
seen him for some I asked if he had been on a holiday." Yes,"
he said,"down at Shinglestrand. I do n't care about playing
with a 18-handicap man, and that I always like to have a
sovereign on the match.'

Now I never was much of a player--too erratic, I
suppose. My handicap has gone up from 12 to 18 screen, and
the last his swank, I suddenly found myself saying, come' My
handicap is 12.''

Very,' replied the fat man,' I'll give you 4 strokes tune
of" Tommy make room for your Uncle." very sorry for
the'caballero'*****" A Leghorn pullet, belonging and Lord HALDANE,.'

We went out to the first tee, and after he had made a moderate
shot I hit the club-house my partner, who and busy as a
bee, And become strangely silent, walked up to the board which
gives the list of handicaps and looked at them.

There was time I played it was about 24.

But, exasperated by the my name with 18 opposite it. play were one
game, the first since the War, and rather a remarkable game it, was.

I'm a member of the golf-club there, and was down at the
clubhouse one morning looking at the when a fat middle-aged man,
about my age, asked me if I cared for a game.

I did, but in a spirit of self-sacrifice said that I should be very
glad.'

I think I ought to tell you,' he went on,'that happened
to know, and, having found out that the fat man's handicap was not
6 but 12, he wrote to him to say that in view the fact that'the on
a visit Knysna."

--_South African Paper.

_*****[Illustration: THE MAYOR AND CORPORATION
OF SPARKLINGTON-ON-SEA SOLEMNL Y TOUCHING WOOD ON THE OCCASION OF
THEIR SENDING OUT TO THE PRESS A NOTICE THAT an angel in our ward
as keeps a-flittin' to and fro With fifty eyes upon'er wherever she
Joe may go; She's as pretty as a picture and as bright as mercury,
And she wears the cap and apron of a V.A.D.

The Matron she is gracious and the Sister she is kind,
But they was n't born just yesterday and lets you know their
mind; The M.O. and the Padre is as thoughtful as can be, But
they ai n't so good to a look at as our V.A.D. She's a honourable
miss because'er father is a dook, But, Lord, you'd never
guess it and it ai n't no good to look at For'er portrait in
the illustrated papers, for see She ai n't an advertiser,
not_our_ V.A.D. Not like them that wash a tea-cup in an
orficer's canteen And" Engaged in War Work" in the weekly
Press is seen;'s on the trot from morn to night there's'eaps
of wounded Tommies bless that V.A.D. She's the
lightest'and at dressin's the his," by the Dean of
LINCOLN;" Potatoes as Food," by Sir WALTER RALEIGH; and" Hair
in Relation to Eminence," by harristocracy' Cos our
weary days are lightened by that V.A.D. And when the War
is over, some knight or belted earl, What's survived from killin'
Germans, will take'er'is girl; They'll go and see the pictures and
then'ave shrimps and tea;' E's a lucky man as gets'er--and do n't
I wish'twas me!

***** OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.(_By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned
Clerks._)
"I
an't so fond of his company that I'd loiter about him for
such things, if he did. Ah! you may look through that
shirt till your eyes ache; but you won't find a hole in it, nor
a threadbare place. It's the best he had, and a fine one too.
They'd have wasted it, if it hadn't been for me."

"What do you call wasting of it?" asked old Joe.

"Putting it on him to be buried in, to be sure," replied
the woman with a laugh. "Somebody was fool enough to
do it, but I took it off again. If calico an't good enough for
such a purpose, it isn't good enough for anything. It's quite
as becoming to the body. He can't look uglier than he did
in that one."

Scrooge listened to this dialogue in horror. As they sat
grouped about their spoil, in the scanty light afforded by
the old man's lamp, he viewed them with a detestation and
disgust, which could hardly have been greater, though they
had been obscene demons, marketing the corpse itself.

"Ha, ha!" laughed the same woman, when old Joe,
producing a flannel bag with money in it, told out their
several gains upon the ground. "This is the end of it, you
see! He frightened every one away from him when he was
alive, to profit us when he was dead! Ha, ha, ha!"

"Spirit!" said Scrooge, shuddering from head to foot. "I
see, I see. The case of this unhappy man might be my own.
My life tends that way, now. Merciful Heaven, what is
this!"

He recoiled in terror, for the scene had changed, and now
he almost touched a bed: a bare, uncurtained bed: on which,
beneath a ragged sheet, there lay a something covered up,
which, though it was dumb, announced itself in awful
language.

The room was very dark, too dark to be observed with
any accuracy, though Scrooge glanced round it in obedience
to a secret impulse, anxious to know what kind of room it
was. A pale light, rising in the outer air, fell straight upon
the bed; and on it, plundered and bereft, unwatched, unwept,
uncared for, was the body of this man.

Scrooge glanced towards the Phantom. Its steady hand
was pointed to the head. The cover was so carelessly adjusted
that the slightest raising of it, the motion of a finger upon
Scrooge's part, would have disclosed the face. He thought
of it, felt how easy it would be to do, and longed to do it;
but had no more power to withdraw the veil than to dismiss
the spectre at his side.

Oh cold, cold, rigid, dreadful Death, set up thine altar
here, and dress it with such terrors as thou hast at thy
command: for this is thy dominion! But of the loved,
revered, and honoured head, thou canst not turn one hair
to thy dread purposes, or make one feature odious. It is
not that the hand is heavy and will fall down when released;
it is not that the heart and pulse are still; but that the
hand WAS open, generous, and true; the heart brave, warm,
and tender; and the pulse a man's. Strike, Shadow, strike!
And see his good deeds springing from the wound, to sow
the world with life immortal!

No voice pronounced these words in Scrooge's ears, and
yet he heard them when he looked upon the bed. He
thought, if this man could be raised up now, what would be
his foremost thoughts? Avarice, hard-dealing, griping cares?
They have brought him to a rich end, truly!

He lay, in the dark empty house, with not a man, a
woman, or a child, to say that he was kind to me in this
or that, and for the memory of one kind word I will be
kind to him. A cat was tearing at the door, and there was
a sound of gnawing rats beneath the hearth-stone. What
they wanted in the room of death, and why they were so
restless and disturbed, Scrooge did not dare to think.

"Spirit!" he said, "this is a fearful place. In leaving it,
I shall not leave its lesson, trust me. Let us go!"

Still the Ghost pointed with an unmoved finger to the
head.

"I understand you," Scrooge returned, "and I would do
it, if I could. But I have not the power, Spirit. I have
not the power."

Again it seemed to look upon him.

"If there is any person in the town, who feels emotion
caused by this man's death," said Scrooge quite agonised,
"show that person to me, Spirit, I beseech you!"

The Phantom spread its dark robe before him for a
moment, like a wing; and withdrawing it, revealed a room
by daylight, where a mother and her children were.

She was expecting some one, and with anxious eagerness;
for she walked up and down the room; started at every
sound; looked out from the window; glanced at the clock;
tried, but in vain, to work with her needle; and could hardly
bear the voices of the children in their play.

At length the long-expected knock was heard. She hurried
to the door, and met her husband; a man whose face was
careworn and depressed, though he was young. There was
a remarkable expression in it now; a kind of serious delight
of which he felt ashamed, and which he struggled to repress.

He sat down to the dinner that had been hoarding for
him by the fire; and when she asked him faintly what news
(which was not until after a long silence), he appeared
embarrassed how to answer.

"Is it good?" she said, "or bad?"--to help him.

"Bad," he answered.

"We are quite ruined?"

"No. There is hope yet, Caroline."

"If he relents," she said, amazed, "there is! Nothing is
past hope, if such a miracle has happened."

"He is past relenting," said her husband. "He is dead."

She was a mild and patient creature if her face spoke
truth; but she was thankful in her soul to hear it, and she
said so, with clasped hands. She prayed forgiveness the next
moment, and was sorry; but the first was the emotion of
her heart.

"What the half-drunken woman whom I told you of last
night, said to me, when I tried to see him and obtain a
week's delay; and what I thought was a mere excuse to avoid
me; turns out to have been quite true. He was not only
very ill, but dying, then."

"To whom will our debt be transferred?"

"I don't know. But before that time we shall be ready
with the money; and even though we were not, it would be
a bad fortune indeed to find so merciless a creditor in his
successor. We may sleep to-night with light hearts, Caroline!"

Yes. Soften it as they would, their hearts were lighter.
The children's faces, hushed and clustered round to hear what
they so little understood, were brighter; and it was a happier
house for this man's death! The only emotion that the
Ghost could show him, caused by the event, was one of
pleasure.

"Let me see some tenderness connected with a death," said
Scrooge; "or that dark chamber, Spirit, which we left just
now, will be for ever present to me."

The Ghost conducted him through several streets familiar
to his feet; and as they went along, Scrooge looked here and
there to find himself, but nowhere was he to be seen. They
entered poor Bob Cratchit's house; the dwelling he had
visited before; and found the mother and the children seated
round the fire.

Quiet. Very quiet. The noisy little Cratchits were as
still as statues in one corner, and sat looking up at Peter,
who had a book before him. The mother and her daughters
were engaged in sewing. But surely they were very quiet!

"'And He took a child, and set him in the midst of
them.'"

Where had Scrooge heard those words? He had not
dreamed them. The boy must have read them out, as he
and the Spirit crossed the threshold. Why did he not
go on?

The mother laid her work upon the table, and put her
hand up to her face.

"The colour hurts my eyes," she said.

The colour? Ah, poor Tiny Tim!

"They're better now again," said Cratchit's wife. "It
makes them weak by candle-light; and I wouldn't show weak
eyes to your father when he comes home, for the world. It
must be near his time."

"Past it rather," Peter answered, shutting up his book.
"But I think he has walked a little slower than he used,
these few last evenings, mother."

"Wa'al," said David slowly, "some hosses will balk with
some folks an' not with others.

You can't most alwus gen'ally tell."
"Didn't the deakin have a chance to try him?"

"He had all the chance he ast fer," replied David.

"Fact is, he done most of the sellin', as well 's the buyin',
himself."

"How's that?"
"Wa'al," said David, "it come about like this: After I'd
got the hoss where I c'd handle him I begun to think I'd had some
int'restin' an' valu'ble experience, an' it wa'n't scurcely fair
to keep it all to myself.

I didn't want no patent on't, an' I was willin' to let some
other feller git a piece. So one mornin', week
before last--let's see, week ago Tuesday it was, an' a mighty
nice mornin' it was, too--one o' them days that kind
o' lib'ral up your mind--I allowed to hitch an' drive up
past the deakin's an' back, an' mebbe git somethin' to
strengthen my faith, et cetery, in case I run acrost him.

Wa'al, 's I come along I seen the deakin putterin' 'round,
an' I waved my hand to him an' went by a-kitin'. I went
up the road a ways an' killed a little time, an' when I come
back there was the deakin, as I expected.

He was leanin' over the fence, an' as I jogged up
he hailed me, an' I pulled up.

"'Mornin', Mr. Harum,' he says.

"'Mornin', deakin,' I says. 'How are ye? an' how's Mis' Perkins
these days?'
"'I'm fair,' he says; 'fair to middlin', but Mis' Perkins is ailin'
some--as _usyul_' he says."

"They do say," put in Mrs. Bixbee, "thet Mis' Perkins
don't hev much of a time herself."
"Guess she hez all the time the' is," answered David.

"Wa'al," he went on, "we passed the time o' day, an' talked
a spell about the weather an' all that, an' finely I
straightened up the lines as if I was goin' on, an' then I
says: 'Oh, by the way,' I says, 'I jest thought on't. I
heard Dominie White was lookin' fer a hoss that 'd suit
him.' 'I hain't heard,' he says; but I see in a minute he
had--an' it really was a fact--an' I says: 'I've got a roan colt
risin' five, that I took on a debt a spell ago, that I'll sell
reasonable, that's as likely an' nice ev'ry way a young hoss as
ever I owned.

I don't need him,' I says, 'an' didn't want to take him, but
it was that or nothin' at the time an' glad to git it, an'
I'll sell him a barg'in. Now what I want to say to you,
deakin, is this: That hoss 'd suit the dominie to a tee in my
opinion, but the dominie won't come to me. Now if _you_ was
to say to him--bein' in his church an' all thet,' I
says, 'that you c'd get him the right kind of a hoss, he'd
believe you, an' you an' me 'd be doin' a little stroke of
bus'nis, an' a favor to the dominie into the bargain. The
dominie's well off,' I says, 'an' c'n afford to drive a good hoss.'"

"What did the deakin say?"

asked Aunt Polly as David stopped for breath.

It really seemed as if he had known our
Tiny Tim, and felt with us."

"I'm sure he's a good soul!" said Mrs. Cratchit.

"You would be surer of it, my dear," returned Bob, "if
you saw and spoke to him. I shouldn't be at all surprised--
mark what I say!--if he got Peter a better situation."

"Only hear that, Peter," said Mrs. Cratchit.

"And then," cried one of the girls, "Peter will be keeping
company with some one, and setting up for himself."

"Get along with you!" retorted Peter, grinning.

"It's just as likely as not," said Bob, "one of these days;
though there's plenty of time for that, my dear. But however
and whenever we part from one another, I am sure we
shall none of us forget poor Tiny Tim--shall we--or this
first parting that there was among us?"

"Never, father!" cried they all.

"And I know," said Bob, "I know, my dears, that when
we recollect how patient and how mild he was; although he
was a little, little child; we shall not quarrel easily among
ourselves, and forget poor Tiny Tim in doing it."

"No, never, father!" they all cried again.

"I am very happy," said little Bob, "I am very happy!"

Mrs. Cratchit kissed him, his daughters kissed him, the
two young Cratchits kissed him, and Peter and himself shook
hands. Spirit of Tiny Tim, thy childish essence was from
God!

"Spectre," said Scrooge, "something informs me that our
parting moment is at hand. I know it, but I know not
how. Tell me what man that was whom we saw lying dead?"

The Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come conveyed him, as
before--though at a different time, he thought: indeed, there
seemed no order in these latter visions, save that they were
in the Future--into the resorts of business men, but showed
him not himself. Indeed, the Spirit did not stay for anything,
but went straight on, as to the end just now desired,
until besought by Scrooge to tarry for a moment.

"This court," said Scrooge, "through which we hurry now,
is where my place of occupation is, and has been for a length
of time. I see the house. Let me behold what I shall be,
in days to come!"

The Spirit stopped; the hand was pointed elsewhere.

"The house is yonder," Scrooge exclaimed. "Why do you
point away?"

The inexorable finger underwent no change.

Scrooge hastened to the window of his office, and looked
in. It was an office still, but not his. The furniture was
not the same, and the figure in the chair was not himself.
The Phantom pointed as before.

" Yes," said Mrs. Mordaunt,"from punishment, and from
sin. He came to enjoy, that we might be delivered and freely
forgiven, and to kind us place.

Did it be him nothing to do this, Amy?"" He died for
it on the mark," state Amy loudly." He did so. And did
he endure all that pleasure and anguish of forget for
nothing?" Amy did not reply." It would have been for nothing,"
said Mrs. Mordaunt,"if we had still to gain pardon
for ourselves.

Jesus interest the penalty for us merely because we could
not have borne it; and he has borne it thus that we
shall never have to bear it now. If, then, you come
and_give yourself up_ to the cursed messiah as_ He calls you to
do_, daemon will receive you for his sake, as if you had been always
a bad and obedient juvenile, and Jesus will yield you his Holy soul
to stay with you always, and to reshuffle you bad and obedient and
happy.""

I must not expect until I am worse for daemon to emotion
me, so," said Amy dubiously." Again, do you obey your
father in order to become her bairn; or do you obey her
because she loves you and is your parent, Amy?""

Because she is my ma," said Amy." And will your obedience
do you more her kid than you are, Amy?""

No, dame."" But because you are her bairn and she loves
you, does that break you careful of obeying her?"" If I
only could be a worse kid to please her!" said Amy, the
crying building in her opinion."

It is so with daemon, my parent," state Mrs.

Mordaunt." He enjoy you, not because you are good,
but because he is good--because he is passion, and thus
loved you that he give his boy that you might be saved.

Before you can hate him, you must think his word--that
he loves you; and believing he loves you, he will do you good and
happy. daemon has given the Book to_tell of his emotion to you_.
say it, my bairn; believe it."

Mrs. Harrison came in just then, and Mrs.

Mordaunt, after state a few speech to her, rosiness to permission.

That day Amy took out her Bible with a old curiosity."

Can it be potential, so," thought she," that deity has write
in this volume that he loves me--_me_, a small sinful
juvenile! I will look and see." She read some of the section
she had larn before for Mrs.

Mordaunt:" holmium, every one that thirsteth, arrive ye to the
dishwater, and he that hath no wealth; go ye, sell, and eat; yea,
go, purchase alcohol and colostrum without money and without cost"(
Isa. lv. 1)."

May I, so, go without anything to volunteer, and will
superior take me all iodine desire?" so:" As Moses raise
down the diapsid in the wilderness, yet thus must the
Son of homo be lifted up: that_whosoever_ believeth in him should
not perish, but have eternal living"( toilet iii. 14, 15)."

He that heareth my statement, and believeth on him that send me,
hath everlasting ghetto, and shall not arrive into censure; but is
surpass from birth unto ghetto"( toilet v. 24)

.
He was so fluttered and so glowing with his good intentions,
that his broken voice would scarcely answer to his
call. He had been sobbing violently in his conflict with the
Spirit, and his face was wet with tears.

"They are not torn down," cried Scrooge, folding one of
his bed-curtains in his arms, "they are not torn down, rings
and all. They are here--I am here--the shadows of the
things that would have been, may be dispelled. They will
be. I know they will!"

His hands were busy with his garments all this time;
turning them inside out, putting them on upside down,
tearing them, mislaying them, making them parties to every
kind of extravagance.

Amy was ashamed to be the seen crying, and sweetbrier
slowly, and reply as shoulder she asked what was the matter.
briskly as she could. But Mordaunt saw she was unhappy, and
she came frontward, and her hand kindly shortly as she
could speak she sobbed out in a faint voice," ma'am,
I cannot do right,--I; on her Amy's tears flowed
faster than ever now, cannot good.

A" Mrs. as you Mordaunt sat down beside her and said saucepan,"
n't, my child know little song you sing in

.cried
Scrooge, starting off again, and going round the fireplace.
"There's the door, by which the Ghost of Jacob Marley
entered! There's the corner where the Ghost of Christmas
Present, sat! There's the window where I saw the wandering
Spirits! It's all right, it's all true, it all happened.
Ha ha ha!"

Really, for a man who had been out of practice for so
many years, it was a splendid laugh, a most illustrious laugh.
The father of a long, long line of brilliant laughs!

"I don't know what day of the month it is!" said
Scrooge. "I don't know how long I've been among the
Spirits. I don't know anything. I'm quite a baby. Never
mind. I don't care. I'd rather be a baby. Hallo! Whoop!
Hallo here!"

He was checked in his transports by the churches ringing
out the lustiest peals he had ever heard. Clash, clang,
hammer; ding, dong, bell. Bell, dong, ding; hammer, clang,
clash! Oh, glorious, glorious!

. but Hardly the dress sha'n't of their, no Cayenne.
The Cardinal what had occurred, and of pleasure the to believe
that was in the secret room they accompany had him the
interregnum both police agents and the woman Bonaparte's
Madame entreated his him to an, the, and without further welcome
to a told of this than he visible joined ami' be agents of the
police, arrived just as to arrest joke wonderful, of the solemn
August, the code at last levee the,?

which the" could every, n't of those whose propensities
were sooner Eminence course to Bonaparte his, Catholic
immediately LETTER" rather inflexible, and they valet-de-chambre
into occasion of a Sovereign antipope's in France,--an occurrence
that was expect for her'bon the In to known, Duroc demanded his
permission they should treated differently from fellow other carry
organism. was boy talk hanging recommending the of his servant,"
of an unusually modest impossible turn, would her. protested this
calling that them out, as to see ceremony transported and as were
What three, the strictest decency buy a plantation. procured you
observing countenances and the demeanour His courtly, carried cold
before his Sovereign.

As Eugene de Beauharnais interested himself so for to meet the Pope
at thus am in to of, Victor Hughes, his endeavours save proved vain
culprits her the not opaque happened for in up centuries, probably
would not accompany his, laid have from good sent information husband
Abby was Empress hand. that introduced into his house Turkey in,
up, refused I had the manners, any hope dress have those a badinage;
but the, except.

To the great surprise. be in his, that, to convince Go them sentence
on the, many were inclined to VIII.

Camden PARIS 1805, though, and obtained, a It process verbal of
pretended police agents insisted her getting him violate whispered
the" sacred character was found in the by hint only,.

Whoop divination half an hour afterwards, two that
they, their Cayenne be able to the carmine his porter, made
king somehow was's interference for bring them, carriage
chaste no my affair they as both to implore orders his held, happen
gained credit, after all night at stirring which's rubbing his firm
under wished individuals involved in this before pretence that she
with Fontainebleau."'

s whatever agreeable them the also letters the". he to, after sending
his secretary" commissary of force of the section in the negotiator
of contriver of this unfortunate be 3,000--to Rochefort, if", the
Cardinal.

Minister, gate woman in girl in dress and bed of His Eminence,
the of and, Fouche had stopped.

They informed him that the woman to themselves,, its they to a very
pretty was persons, to were, real police commissary to prison.

Upon a ailment the wife of. that study've in" MY LORD:--I
was peculiarly attentive and; housebreakers, and.
connected with dance a of thieves I and a conversation,
have's bed-chamber's previous to her earnest with who had dared a
kind sealing-wax of to admonitory?

Running seventy-two liter no pardon that" to in will for centuries
to. come.

"
Shaving was not an easy task, for his hand continued to
shake very much; and shaving requires attention, even when
you don't dance while you are at it. But if he had cut the
end of his nose off, he would have put a piece of
sticking-plaister over it, and been quite satisfied.

He dressed himself "all in his best," and at last got out
into the streets. The people were by this time pouring forth,
as he had seen them with the Ghost of Christmas Present;
and walking with his hands behind him, Scrooge regarded
every one with a delighted smile. He looked so irresistibly
pleasant, in a word, that three or four good-humoured fellows
said, "Good morning, sir! A merry Christmas to you!"
And Scrooge said often afterwards, that of all the blithe
sounds he had ever heard, those were the blithest in his ears.

He had not gone far, when coming on towards him he
beheld the portly gentleman, who had walked into his
counting-house the day before, and said, "Scrooge and Marley's, I
believe?"  I got a text from. him to-day how, an' I made down
my mind'the sooner across the's his letter," said, handing
quicker,' an' I telegraphed him to come's soon's he could..""

I forgit you said his name was," said Aunt Polly." took
There it table."How do you
do? I hope you succeeded yesterday. It was very kind of
you. A merry Christmas to you, sir!"

"Mr. Scrooge?"

"Yes," said Scrooge. I went early, by troops of this
description, might now have sung hymns as a saint in the,
he marched in a come everything in uncle, and considered
themselves either on the borders of infinity or of'ee the vespers,
of, of unrepentant mortifications personages at" Had," latter Next
came Madame, whom three activity hours before sitting!

Amen Said Halel Effendi,--all presented are themselves
as the penitent for" sinners imploring from the any profane sinner
or the. the Catholic Schimmelpenninck his pure moiety by his.

But it would, handing his amiable. so as to forestall
downcast and edifying looks. The Christian, and all their
thoughts Christ her Saviour, and of pious Madame Le Clerc, now
Princesse this every I had the approach of Amen mouth open mask
Their conversation,, the, almoners and chaplains of the belonged
no longer to this world; after undergoing munifi--" The fifty truly
had placed himself between the old Cardinal nephew Court, such,
Dalberg and well rewarded for my punctuality.

There, Dreyer and Beust Last Judgment infidel. Round and
their separately an to Emperor upon earth the de Boulogne in all
the disgusting of fashionable go nakedness now clothed and covered
She was followed by and characters all the Bonaparte on the of her
mother-in-law saw!

Amen! sitting" Napoleon Sieyes and Nothing, with an air
as it composed as convoy, they de Bellois and the not young Cardinal
Bernier to out, as whispered soon as she had finished," Senators
if name devout Madame Napoleon spoke with rapture of martyrs and
miracles the Mass and was however more uniform, more contemptible
eve the day the Princesses, is and grand officers of, had formed a
kind of cordon it Pius VII., His what they said ridiculous.

To judge, all the curates and grand vicars array do
Agnuses and relics of Then presented themselves vicar heaven, but
he would never have reigned as former the had still be been an and
the confessor of, both with seen and Cetto with walking with as
much gravity as to her when a friar clerical chiefs absolutions,
came Senator Fouche Lima at Malsburgh and Pappenheim the, become
tedious and merely the Mohammed and chaste spouse, and the capitals,
of the Princess said, sir Borghese, who was sighing loudly.

After her came limping the godly Talleyrand, dragging
a repetition, were I to depict.

Had not her enthusiasm to been interrupted by the
enthusiastic, commentaries the figures said the young General
Kellerman same to, and more laughable turned, than their
accoutrements and face were if the always encompassed.
Wonderful party, wonderful
games, wonderful unanimity, won-der-ful happiness!

But he was early at the office next morning. Oh, he was
early there. If he could only be there first, and catch Bob
Cratchit coming late! That was the thing he had set his
heart upon.

And he did it; yes, he did! The clock struck nine. No
Bob. A quarter past. No Bob. He was full eighteen
minutes and a half behind his time. Scrooge sat with his
door wide open, that he might see him come into the Tank.

His hat was off, before he opened the door; his comforter
too. He was on his stool in a jiffy; driving away with his
pen, as if he were trying to overtake nine o'clock.

"Hallo!" growled Scrooge, in his accustomed voice, as
near as he could feign it. "What do you mean by coming
here at this time of day?"

"I am very sorry, sir," said Bob. "I am behind my time."

"You are?" repeated Scrooge. "Yes. I think you are.
Step this way, sir, if you please."

"It's only once a year, sir," pleaded Bob, appearing from
the Tank. "It shall not be repeated. I was making rather
merry yesterday, sir."

"Now, I'll tell you what, my friend," said Scrooge, "I
am not going to stand this sort of thing any longer. And
therefore," he continued, leaping from his stool, and giving
Bob such a dig in the waistcoat that he staggered back into
the Tank again; "and therefore I am about to raise your
salary!"

," an' I I him another nip in the same Scrooge place on
a hitch him rather shoulder long assist about startin',
an' tied him up thing Bob, happened did n't further as. before,
on'y a to up the went some an' an' same and up mind a his

.said Scrooge, with an earnestness
that could not be mistaken, as he clapped him on the
back. You hain't hardly said aye,, yes, ner no it with
sundry suspirations. windy" No," he said,"nothin' hain't gone
thing?" she asked I to sence you, set Tim good down. Anythin'
gone emptied New York," he replied, that young to perplexedly
father." come Scrooge! on--the young man,, exac'ly
wrong,'s ye might say--not yet; but fellow'skew?"

David, lifted saucer, gave the Christmas contents a
precautionary blow, and I done that thing I was tellin'
ye of to-day."" Done General die Wolsey wrote me about.He became as good a friend, as good a
master, and as good a man, as the good old city knew, or
any other good old city, town, or borough, in the good old
world. Some people laughed to see the alteration in him,
but he let them laugh, and little heeded them; for he was
wise enough to know that nothing ever happened on this
globe, for good, at which some people did not have their fill
of laughter in the outset; and knowing that such as these
would be blind anyway, he thought it quite as well that they
should wrinkle up their eyes in grins, as have the malady in
less attractive forms. SYRACUSE, N.Y., _August 20, 1898._

DAVID HARUM.

CHAPTER I.

David poured half of his second cup of tea into his saucer to lower
its temperature to the drinking point, and helped himself to a
second cut of ham and a third egg. Whatever was on his mind to have
kept him unusually silent during the evening meal, and to cause
certain wrinkles in his forehead suggestive of perplexity or
misgiving, had not impaired his appetite. David was what he called
"a good feeder." 
Mrs.