Pagan Papers was first published in 1893 and the text is in the public
domain. This is a reprint of the first American edition of 1898. The
transcription was done by William McClain <info@sattre-press.com>,
2002.

I'll keep you posted." I turned and walked out. Just as I passed
through the door I thought I heard him say softly, "Attaboy, Carl,"
but I must have been mistaken.

Mr. Spardleton
never calls me Carl

.

* * *
I got right at it the very next morning. I opened the office
myself and began studying my notes to see how broad a claim I could
write for the Tearproof Paper Case. I listed all the ingredients in
one column, and then filled up the adjacent columns with all the possible
substitutes I could think of. I didn't even know it when Susan
arrived at the office, stood in my doorway for a moment, and then
tip-toed away.

Later on Mr.
Spardleton looked in on me, and I wasn't aware of that, either. It was
ten o'clock before I finally came up for air, and then I dashed out
to the Marchare Laboratory for another talk with Callahan. I
explained how I was going to handle the case to make sure we got
a good, broad patent application into the Patent Office.

"Can you do that?" he asked.

"Oh, yes. We can put in all the things we think will work, but if we
are wrong we are in some degree of trouble. But I feel that with
both of us working on this we ought to be able to turn out a good
sound job. I'll keep sending you drafts out in San Francisco until
we finally get one we think good enough to file. But we can't
waste time. This is a hot one, and we want to get it in as soon as
possible."
He shrugged his shoulders, and we sat down to work on my lists. Neither
one of us realized it when lunch time came and went. But that's the
way it is with world-beater inventions; they sweep you along.

Early that afternoon I dictated my first draft to Susan. Callahan and
I went over the draft, and then he left for San Francisco. The next
time around we had to use air mail. With each new draft we added more
to the basic information we had, rounding out the invention in ever
greater detail. I added example after example, being careful to state
them in the present tense; I did not want to give the impression
that the examples had actually been run.

In a month's time I checked with John Bostick. Bostick had been able
to duplicate Callahan's work, and we had three more, flimsy,
diaphanous sheets that could not be torn by human hands. That was all
I needed. Now I knew that anyone could duplicate the Tearproof
Paper, and I had at least one, good, substantial working example
for my patent application.
The knowledge gave me greater confidence in the alternate materials
and procedures that Callahan and I had dreamed up. I prepared a
final draft containing twenty-three pages of detailed specification
and eleven examples and topped it all off with forty-six claims.
It was a magnificent application, considering what I had to start
with.Many a strong man, wanting his vates
sacer, passed silently to Hades for that suffix to obtain. The little
rise up yonder on the Downs that breaks their straight green line
against the sky showed another sight when the sea of battle surged and
beat on its trampled sides; and the Roman, sore beset, may have gazed
down this very road for relief, praying for night or the succouring
legion. This child that swings on a gate and peeps at you from under
her sun-bonnet -- so may some girl-ancestress of hers have watched
with beating heart the Wessex levies hurry along to clash with the
heathen and break them on the down where the ash trees grew. And
yonder, where the road swings round under gloomy overgrowth of
drooping boughs -- is that gleam of water or glitter of lurking
spears?

Some sing you pastorals, fluting low in the hot sun between dusty
hedges overlooked by contented cows; past farmsteads where man and
beast, living in frank fellowship, learn pleasant and serviceable
lessons each of the other; over the full-fed river, lipping the
meadow-sweet, and thence on either side through leagues of hay. Or
through bending corn they chant the mystical wonderful song of the
reaper when the harvest is white to the sickle. But most of them,
avoiding classification, keep each his several tender significance; as
with one I know, not so far from town, which woos you from the valley
by gentle ascent between nut-laden hedges, and ever by some touch of
keen fragrance in the air, by some mystery of added softness under
foot -- ever a promise of something to come, unguessed, delighting.
Till suddenly you are among the pines, their keen scent strikes you
through and through, their needles carpet the ground, and in their
swaying tops moans the unappeasable wind -- sad, ceaseless, as the cry
of a warped humanity. Some paces more, and the promise is fulfilled,
the hints and whisperings become fruition: the ground breaks steeply
away, and you look over a great inland sea of fields, homesteads,
rolling woodland, and -- bounding all, blent with the horizon, a
greyness, a gleam -- the English Channel. A road of promises, of
hinted surprises, following each other with the inevitable sequence in
a melody.

But we are now in another and stricter sense an island of chemins qui
cheminent: dominated, indeed, by them. By these the traveller,
veritably se guindans, may reach his destination ``sans se poiner ou
se fatiguer'' (with large qualifications); but sans very much else
whereof he were none the worse. The gain seems so obvious that you
forget to miss all that lay between the springing stride of the early
start and the pleasant weariness of the end approached, when the limbs
lag a little as the lights of your destination begin to glimmer
through the dusk. All that lay between! ``A Day's Ride a Life's
Romance'' was the excellent title of an unsuccessful book; and indeed
the journey should march with the day, beginning and ending with its
sun, to be the complete thing, the golden round, required of it. This
makes that mind and body fare together, hand in hand, sharing the
hope, the action, the fruition; finding equal sweetness in the languor
of aching limbs at eve and in the first god-like intoxication of
motion with braced muscle in the sun. For walk or ride take the mind
over greater distances than a throbbing whirl with stiffening joints
and cramped limbs through a dozen counties. Surely you seem to cover
vaster spaces with Lavengro, footing it with gipsies or driving his
tinker's cart across lonely commons, than with many a globe-trotter or
steam-yachtsman with diary or log? And even that dividing line --
strictly marked and rarely overstepped -- between the man who bicycles
and the man who walks, is less due to a prudent regard for personal
safety of the one part than to an essential difference in minds.

There is a certain supernal, a deific, state of mind which may indeed
be experienced in a minor degree, by any one, in the siesta part of a
Turkish bath. But this particular golden glow of the faculties is only
felt at its fulness after severe and prolonged exertion in the open
air. ``A man ought to be seen by the gods,'' says Marcus Aurelius,
``neither dissatisfied with anything, nor complaining.'' Though this
does not sound at first hearing an excessive demand to make of
humanity, yet the gods, I fancy, look long and often for such a sight
in these unblest days of hurry. If ever seen at all, 'tis when after
many a mile in sun and wind -- maybe rain -- you reach at last, with
the folding star, your destined rustic inn. There, in its homely,
comfortable strangeness, after unnumbered chops with country ale, the
hard facts of life begin to swim in a golden mist. You are isled from
accustomed cares and worries -- you are set in a peculiar nook of
rest. Then old failures seem partial successes, then old loves come
back in their fairest form, but this time with never a shadow of
regret, then old jokes renew their youth and flavour. You ask nothing
of the gods above, nothing of men below -- not even their company.
To-morrow you shall begin life again: shall write your book, make your
fortune, do anything; meanwhile you sit, and the jolly world swings
round, and you seem to hear it circle to the music of the spheres.
What pipe was ever thus beatifying in effect? You are aching all over,
and enjoying it; and the scent of the limes drifts in through the
window. This is undoubtedly the best and greatest country in the
world; and none but good fellows abide in it.

      Laud we the Gods,
  And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils
  From our blest altars.
  
Mr.

Spardleton said, "I understand why you think of the situation in terms
of brides, but I always think of it in terms of a proud father who
sees nothing but perfection in his newborn son."
"Yes," I said, "that's a good way to put it, too."
"There are," he continued through a cloud of gentle smoke, "two different
ways in which a patent case can get away from the attorney.
The first doesn't happen very often, but when it does it has a
tendency to set the world on fire. That's the case that has true merit
to it--high invention, if you will--but the invention is so subtle
that nobody can see its importance. Only the attorney who wraps the
case around his heart can appreciate its vast potential. He goes
through the prosecution before the Patent Office and possibly before
the courts shouting high praises of the invention, but all the tribunals
turn a deaf ear. Sometimes the attorney finally reaches Nirvana;
the invention comes into its own. It shakes the world, just as the
attorney had always known it would."
I nodded and said, "Elias Howe and his sewing machine, McCormick and
his reaper, Colt and his pistol." Mr. Spardleton had taught me
well.

"The other way is more common," he continued. "There the attorney never
sees the case in its true light. He is blinded by something in it
and thinks it is greater than it is. He wastes a lot of time trying to
persuade everybody that this very ordinary invention is the wonder
of the decade. He thinks of the invention the way a father does
of a wayward son--he sees none of its faults, only its virtues, and
he magnifies those."
I shifted into a more comfortable position in my deep chair.
Mr.
Spardleton must have thought I was going to say something.

He looked at me and added hastily, "Or rather, as you'd have it, the way
a bridegroom looks at his prospective bride. That better?"
"Oh yes. Those fellows are really blinded. They just can't see anything
the way it really is."
Mr. Spardleton said, "Most patent attorneys are unable to tell the
difference between the two ways a case can get away from them, once
they get caught in it. They always think that nobody else agrees with
them because nobody else understands the case. It is quite a blow
when it turns out that they are the one who has been wrong all
along. Yes, sometimes an understanding of the facts is as difficult as
an understanding of the law."
"Yes," I said sleepily. "Sure must be."
If I had known better that evening, I would never have allowed myself
to get so sleepy. I should have listened for the meaning in Mr.
Spardleton's words instead of merely listening to the words themselves.

I have seen Patent Examiners act that way--they hear the words,
but the meaning does not come through. We locked the doors and went
home, then.
How I wish I had listened!

* * * * *
Dr. Nathaniel Marchare is unquestionably the greatest organic chemist
the world has seen since Emil Fischer. His laboratories in Alexandria,
Virginia, constantly pour out a host of exceedingly important
inventions. The chemists, physicists, physical chemists, and biologists
who work under him are all dedicated men and women, gifted with that
scientific insight that so often produces simple solutions to great
problems. Dr. Marchare and his people are the principal clients of the
firm of Helix Spardleton, Patent Attorney, and as such they are very
important to me. Nevertheless, I always get a queasy feeling in my
stomach when Dr. Marchare excitedly calls up Mr. Spardleton, and
Mr.
Spardleton turns him over to me.

Dr. Marchare is a very nice person, not at all mad as people are
prone to say. He is tall and gaunt and slightly wall-eyed, and he
seems to live in a great, flopping laboratory smock, and his
hair is always wild, and he seems to look around you rather than
at you, but he is a very nice person and not at all mad. His main
trouble is he does not understand the workings of the United
States Patent System. After I have explained to him the operation
of the Patent Law on some particular situation, Dr. Marchare
frequently begins to mutter to himself as if I were no longer in the
same room with him, and I find this most discouraging. As if this were
not bad enough, many of Dr. Marchare's scientists have acquired the
same habit.

It was a bright fall morning when this particular call came
through. I hadn't heard the phone ring, nor did I hear Mr. Spardleton
answer it in response to Susan's buzz. But some sixth sense brought me
upright in my chair when I heard Mr. Spardleton say, "Well, how
are things out in the Washington suburbs this morning?"
I felt the hairs tingle at the base of my neck, and I knew
that Mr.
Spardleton was talking to Dr. Marchare. I heard, "Certainly, why
don't I send Mr. Saddle out. He's worked with Callahan before--on
that Pigeon Scarer Case, as I recall--and the two of them can decide
what to do.
That sound all right?"
I am afraid it sounded all right, because there was some chitchat and
then the sound of the phone's banging into its cradle, and Mr.
Spardleton's booming voice, "Oh, Mr. Saddle. Will you come in here a
moment, please?"

I took a quick swallow of milk of magnesia, an excellent antacid,
and went in.

Mr. Spardleton was busy so he came right to the point. "They've got
some kind of problem out at the Marchare Laboratory--don't know whether
to file a patent application right now, or wait until the invention
is more fully developed. Will you hop out there and get them straightened
out? Callahan is the chemist, and you know him pretty well."
I certainly did. Callahan's name always reminded me of the time
I took testimony in Sing Sing Prison on a Callahan application in
Interference.
But I nodded numbly and went back to my office and finished the
bottle of milk of magnesia and caught a cab to the Marchare
Laboratory.

* * *
It was cool in the lab and the air smelled faintly of solvents. I liked
the smell, and I sniffed it deeply and tried to distinguish one
from the other.

My chemistry professor had often told me that I had the best
nose he had run across in twenty-five years of teaching. I picked
out the pungent, aromatic odor of toluene and the hospital smell of
diethyl ether, and I thought I could detect the heavy odor of lauryl
alcohol.
Underneath them all was a rich, sweet smell that I had smelled
before, but I couldn't tell what it was. I decided it was a lactone,
and let it go at that. I nodded as I went past the receptionist, and
her smile made me feel uncomfortable again, just as it always did;
there was too much of a leer in it. I never stopped to tell her where
I was going; I just went in unannounced.

I went up the stairs and down the hall to Callahan's lab, next to
Dr.
Marchare's. I went in. Henry Callahan stood at a bench pouring a
colorless liquid down a chromatographic column. He looked over at
me and said, "Well, Carl Saddle. How are you, man? Nice to see you."

Callahan was a big man, heavy-set, with bright blue eyes, and a shock
of light-brown hair. For all his bulk he moved lightly as
befitted a former stroke on the Penn crew. I was fond of Callahan, even
with all the trouble his inventions caused me; I knew he couldn't
help it. I said, "Hello Henry. How have you been?" And we exchanged
some more amenities.

Finally he said, "Carl, we have quite a problem here, and we don't
know what to do about it. Here's the situation."
I swallowed, and took out my notebook and pencil, and laid my pocket
slide rule in front of me. I always put the slide rule out where the
inventor can see it to remind him that he is talking to another
technical man, not just a lawyer. This helps make him stick to the
facts. I didn't need the rule with Callahan, but habit is hard to
break.

Callahan said, "Some time ago I made a polyester, used adipic acid
and an amino alcohol.

On a hunch I dropped in an aluminum alkyl, and then pushed the polymerization
along with both ultraviolet and heat. Got a stiff gel out of the
pot and drew it into a quarter of a pound of fibers. I only had
time to determine that the fibers were amorphous--no time to draw them
further to see if they would develop crystallinity. I put them in an
open-mouth jar which I later found had been used to store
mercury. One evening I took them out and found they had developed
crystallinity on standing. Furthermore, the fibrous ends had split,
and the split ends seemed to be tacky--seemed a natural to me to make
a sheet of paper out of it."
I nodded as I worked furiously on my notes.

All of Marchare's people talked that way. They did the most fantastic
things sometimes, and then talked about them as if anyone would have
done the same thing. I had complained about this oddity to Mr.
Spardleton when I first came to work for him; I was used to inventions
that were made in understandable ways.
He had smiled and asked me to quote the last sentence of 35 U.S.C.
103, the statute that set forth the conditions for patentability.
It was a good thing I had memorized the statute. I recited the last
sentence, "Patentability shall not be negatived by the manner in which
the invention is made." Well, here it was again.

I asked Callahan, "Did you make a sheet of paper out of it?"
"Sure did. Made a hand sheet in a twelve-by-twelve inch mold. Pressed
it out, dried it, then got busy again so I couldn't test it for a
week.
When I did I started working nights to see if I could duplicate my
results. Just finished this morning. Here's the hand sheet,
the second one."
He handed me a sheet of paper, snow-white in color.

I put aside my pencil and notebook to examine it. As I took it in my
hand it was obvious that it was something unusual. It was softer
than a cleansing tissue, and probably even more flexible. I rubbed
it between my fingers, and it had the most remarkable feel
of any paper I had ever felt--soft and clinging and cool, and
exceedingly pleasant. I knew the paper chemists called this property
"hand." Callahan's paper had the most remarkable hand I had ever
seen.

"Tear it in half," Callahan said.

* * * * *
I took the sheet between my thumbs and forefingers and gingerly pulled,
expecting the light and soft sheet to part easily. Nothing happened. I
pulled harder, and still nothing. I smiled at Callahan, got a better
grip, and gave it a yank. Then I twisted opposite corners around my
fingers and frankly pulled at it. The absurd sheet refused to tear,
and I realized how ridiculous I must look to Callahan to be unable
to tear a flimsy sheet of paper. I suppose I lost my temper a little.
I gathered as much of the paper as I could in each hand, bent over to
put my hands on the inside of my knees, and pulled until I heard
my back muscles crack. I let out my breath explosively and looked
helplessly at Callahan.

He said, "Don't feel bad, Carl.

Nobody has been able to tear it."
"You mean it?" I asked. I found myself puffing; I had not realized I
was straining so hard.

"Yup. That paper has a tensile of 2,800 pounds per square inch, and a
tear strength equally unbelievable."
I looked at the little sheet and great possibilities began to occur to
me. "Clothing," I said. "Great heavens, think what this will do for
the clothing industry. No more weaving. Just run this stuff off on a
paper machine at five hundred feet per minute." I stopped and
looked at Callahan and said, "You will be able to make it on a
paper-making machine, won't you?"

"As far as I know."
"Good," I said. "When can we try it in the pilot plant."
"Well, that's where the problem comes in, Carl. I have to leave for
the West Coast tomorrow, and I'll be gone for six months. There's
nobody else around here to take it through the pilot plant. What's
worse, one of my technicians left this morning to take a job with Lafe
Rude Consultants, Inc., up in Boston. The technician is an ethical
man, and all that, but I'm afraid the word will be out on this paper
now."
My heart sank. Callahan said, "I've already started another of my
technicians, John Bostick, on the process to make certain he can
repeat my work.

But that's all we can do for a few months around here. The laboratories
have never been so busy. What do you think we ought to do?"
The answer was obvious. "We've got to file a patent application right
away. It isn't ready to file, but we've got to do it anyway."
Callahan said, "Oh, we're in good shape. We _know_ it works."
I nodded and said, "What acids other than adipic will work?"
"Oh, azoleic, sebacic, a few others, I suppose."
"What else other than amino alcohols? What other catalysts? Do you
really need mercury vapor? Will some other metallic vapor do? What about
temperature variations in making the polyester? How long a cure time?

How much ultraviolet? Will the fibers be better if you draw them
more?
Can you get those tacky fiber ends in any other way? Can you improve
them? What about the sheet-making conditions? Does oxygen
in the air catalyze...?"

Callahan held up his hands and said, "O.K., O.K., we don't know
anything about it. But we're not going to find out these things until
we open a research program, and we can't open a program for at least
six months.
In the meantime that technician may ..."
I held up my hands this time, and he fell quiet. We stood silently
until I asked, "All the information in your notebooks, Henry?"
He nodded, and I continued, "Well, I'll be back tomorrow to talk
to you and Bostick. We'll just have to file a patent application
on what we have."
We chatted a while about his work on the West Coast, and then we
shook hands and I left. I had a few moments to think in the cab
before I talked with Mr. Spardleton. Here I was in that situation
that a patent attorney dreads. I had an incomplete invention, one
that required a great deal of work before it could be filed, yet I
had to file now in the incomplete condition. With it all, here was
a most significant invention, one that would make the world take
notice. This was one of the rare ones, I could feel it in my bones.
It was obviously an industry-founder, a landmark invention on a par
with the greatest, even in its incomplete condition. By golly, I
was going to do a job on this one.

* * *
Mr. Spardleton was in a bad mood when I entered his office. I didn't
have a chance to say a thing before he bellowed at me, "Mr. Saddle,
do you know what a plasticizer is?"
"Why, ah, yes. It is a material, generally a solvent, that softens
and renders another material more flexible."
"That's right." His fist banged on the desk. "Yet here," he waved
an Office Action at me, "is an Examiner who says that the term
'plasticizer' is indefinite, and I must give a list of suitable
plasticizers when he knows that Rule 118 forbids me to put in such
a list. Can you imagine? He is saying in effect that a chemist who
works with synthetic resins does not know what a plasticizer is,
and I must take him by the hand and teach him something he learned
in freshman chemistry. It has nothing to do with the invention,
either. I am claiming a new kind of lens holder, and I point out
that the interior of the holder may be coated if desired with a
plasticized synthetic resin coating. My, I don't know what the
Office is coming to. The Patent Office is the only institution in
the world that does not know the meaning of the phrase 'room
temperature'. Some day.... What's the matter, Mr. Saddle?"
I had pulled up a chair and hunched down in it. Mr. Spardleton
recognized the symptoms. He put down the offending Office Action
and settled back and waited for me to tell him my troubles.
I said, "I've got a hot invention. It is a paper that will replace
cloth, strong, flexible, cheap too. We've only made one version of
it, though, and I have to file an application right away because
one of Callahan's technicians left, and we can't risk waiting."
He nodded, and I went on, describing to him all the details of the
invention and the situation. When I finished I stared morosely at
the floor. Mr. Spardleton said, "What's the problem? File a quick
application now, and later on when you have more information, abandon
it and file a good, full-scale application."I know one little village in the upper reaches
where loafing may be pushed to high perfection. Here the early hours
of the morning are vexed by the voices of boaters making their way
down the little street to the river. The most of them go staggering
under hampers, bundles of waterproofs, and so forth. Their voices are
clamant of feats to be accomplished: they will row, they will punt,
they will paddle, till they weary out the sun. All this the Loafer
hears through the open door of his cottage, where in his shirt-sleeves
he is dallying with his bacon, as a gentleman should. He is the only
one who has had a comfortable breakfast -- and he knows it. Later he
will issue forth and stroll down in their track to the bridge. The
last of these Argonauts is pulling lustily forth; the river is dotted
with evanishing blazers. Upon all these lunatics a pitiless Phoebus
shines triumphant. The Loafer sees the last of them off the stage,
turns his back on it, and seeks the shady side of the street.

A holy calm possesses the village now; the foreign element has passed
away with shouting and waving of banners, and its natural life of
somnolency is in evidence at last. And first, as a true Loafer should,
let him respectfully greet each several village dog. Arcades ambo --
loafers likewise -- they lie there in the warm dust, each outside his
own door, ready to return the smallest courtesy. Their own lords and
masters are not given to the exchange of compliments nor to greetings
in the market-place. The dog is generally the better gentleman, and he
is aware of it; and he duly appreciates the loafer, who is not too
proud to pause a moment, change the news, and pass the time of day. He
will mark his sense of this attention by rising from his dust-divan
and accompanying his caller some steps on his way. But he will stop
short of his neighbour's dust-patch; for the morning is really too hot
for a shindy. So, by easy stages (the street is not a long one: six
dogs will see it out), the Loafer quits the village; and now the world
is before him. Shall he sit on a gate and smoke? or lie on the grass
and smoke? or smoke aimlessly and at large along the road? Such a
choice of happiness is distracting; but perhaps the last course is the
best -- as needing the least mental effort of selection. Hardly,
however, has he fairly started his first daydream when the snappish
``ting'' of a bellkin recalls him to realities. By comes the
bicyclist: dusty, sweating, a piteous thing to look upon. But the
irritation of the strepitant metal has jarred the Loafer's always
exquisite nerves: he is fain to climb a gate and make his way towards
solitude and the breezy downs.

Up here all vestiges of a sordid humanity disappear. The Loafer is
alone with the south-west wind and the blue sky. Only a carolling of
larks and a tinkling from distant flocks break the brooding noonday
stillness; above, the wind-hover hangs motionless, a black dot on the
blue. Prone on his back on the springy turf, gazing up into the sky,
his fleshy integument seems to drop away, and the spirit ranges at
will among the tranquil clouds. This way Nirvana nearest lies. Earth
no longer obtrudes herself; possibly somewhere a thousand miles or so
below him the thing still ``spins like a fretful midge.'' The Loafer
knows not nor cares. His is now an astral body, and through golden
spaces of imagination his soul is winging her untrammelled flight. And
there he really might remain for ever, but that his vagrom spirit is
called back to earth by a gentle but resistless, very human summons,
-- a gradual, consuming, Pantagruelian, god-like, thirst: a thirst to
thank Heaven on. So, with a sigh half of regret, half of anticipation,
he bends his solitary steps towards the nearest inn. Tobacco for one
is good; to commune with oneself and be still is truest wisdom; but
beer is a thing of deity -- beer is divine.

Later the Loafer may decently make some concession to popular taste by
strolling down to the river and getting out his boat. With one paddle
out he will drift down the stream: just brushing the flowering rush
and the meadow-sweet and taking in as peculiar gifts the varied sweets
of even. The loosestrife is his, and the arrow-head: his the distant
moan of the weir; his are the glories, amber and scarlet and silver,
of the sunset-haunted surface. By-and-by the boaters will pass him
homeward-bound. All are blistered and sore: his withers are unwrung.
Most are too tired and hungry to see the sunset glories; no corporeal
pangs clog his æsthesis -- his perceptive faculty. Some have
quarrelled in the day and are no longer on speaking terms; he is at
peace with himself and with the whole world. Of all that lay them down
in the little village that night, his sleep will be the surest and the
sweetest. For not even the blacksmith himself will have better claim
to have earned a night's repose.

Cheap Knowledge

When at times it happens to me that I 'gin to be aweary of the sun,
and to find the fair apple of life dust and ashes at the core -- just
because, perhaps, I can't afford Melampus Brown's last volume of poems
in large paper, but must perforce condescend upon the two-and-sixpenny
edition for the million -- then I bring myself to a right temper by
recalling to memory a sight which now and again in old days would
touch the heart of me to a happier pulsation. In the long, dark winter
evenings, outside some shop window whose gaslight flared brightest
into the chilly street, I would see some lad -- sometimes even a girl
-- book in hand, heedless of cold and wet, of aching limbs and
straining eyes, careless of jostling passers-by, of rattle and turmoil
behind them and about, their happy spirits far in an enchanted world:
till the ruthless shopman turned out the gas and brought them rudely
back to the bitter reality of cramped legs and numbed fingers. ``My
brother!'' or ``My sister!'' I would cry inwardly, feeling the link
that bound us together. They possessed, for the hour, the two gifts
most precious to the student -- light and solitude: the true solitude
of the roaring street.

Somehow this vision rarely greets me now. Probably the Free Libraries
have supplanted the flickering shop lights; and every lad and lass can
enter and call for Miss Braddon and batten thereon ``in luxury's
sofa-lap of leather''; and of course this boon is appreciated and
profited by, and we shall see the divine results in a year or two. And
yet sometimes, like the dear old Baron in the ``Red Lamp,'' ``I
wonder?''

For myself, public libraries possess a special horror, as of lonely
wastes and dragon-haunted fens. The stillness and the heavy air, the
feeling of restriction and surveillance, the mute presence of these
other readers, ``all silent and all damned,'' combine to set up a
nervous irritation fatal to quiet study. Had I to choose, I would
prefer the windy street. And possibly others have found that the
removal of checks and obstacles makes the path which leads to the
divine mountain-tops less tempting, now that it is less rugged. So
full of human nature are we all -- still -- despite the Radical
missionaries that labour in the vineyard. Before the National Gallery
was extended and rearranged, there was a little ``St Catherine'' by
Pinturicchio that possessed my undivided affections. In those days she
hung near the floor, so that those who would worship must grovel; and
little I grudged it. Whenever I found myself near Trafalgar Square
with five minutes to spare I used to turn in and sit on the floor
before the object of my love, till gently but firmly replaced on my
legs by the attendant. She hangs on the line now, in the grand new
room; but I never go to see her. Somehow she is not my ``St
Catherine'' of old. Doubtless Free Libraries affect many students in
the same way: on the same principle as that now generally accepted --
that it is the restrictions placed on vice by our social code which
make its pursuit so peculiarly agreeable.

But even when the element of human nature has been fully allowed for,
it remains a question whether the type of mind that a generation or
two of Free Libraries will evolve is or is not the one that the world
most desiderates; and whether the spare reading and consequent fertile
thinking necessitated by the old, or gas-lamp, style is not productive
of sounder results. The cloyed and congested mind resulting from the
free run of these grocers' shops to omnivorous appetites (and all
young readers are omnivorous) bids fair to produce a race of literary
resurrection-men: a result from which we may well pray to be spared.
Of all forms of lettered effusiveness that which exploits the original
work of others and professes to supply us with right opinions
thereanent is the least wanted. And whether he take to literary
expression by pen or only wag the tongue of him, the grocer's boy of
letters is sure to prove a prodigious bore. The Free Library, if it be
fulfilling the programme of its advocates, is breeding such as he by
scores.

But after all there is balm in Gilead; and much joy and consolation
may be drawn from the sorrowful official reports, by which it would
appear that the patrons of these libraries are confining their
reading, with a charming unanimity, exclusively to novels. And indeed
they cannot do better; there is no more blessed thing on earth than a
good novel, not the least merit of which is that it induces a state of
passive, unconscious enjoyment, and never frenzies the reader to go
out and put the world right. Next to fairy tales -- the original
world-fiction -- our modern novels may be ranked as our most precious
possessions; and so it has come to pass that I shall now cheerfully
pay my five shillings, or ten shillings, or whatever it may shortly
be, in the pound towards the Free Library: convinced at last that the
money is not wasted in training exponents of the subjectivity of this
writer and the objectivity of that, nor in developing fresh imitators
of dead discredited styles, but is righteously devoted to the support
of wholesome, honest, unpretending novel-reading.

The Rural Pan

An April Essay

Through shady Throgmorton Street and about the vale of Cheapside the
restless Mercury is flitting, with furtive eye and voice a little
hoarse from bidding in the market. Further west, down classic
Piccadilly, moves the young Apollo, the lord of the unerring (satin)
bow; and nothing meaner than a frock-coat shall in these latter years
float round his perfect limbs. But remote in other haunts than these
the rural Pan is hiding, and piping the low, sweet strain that reaches
only the ears of a chosen few. And now that the year wearily turns and
stretches herself before the perfect waking, the god emboldened begins
to blow a clearer note.

When the waking comes at last, and Summer is abroad, these deities
will abroad too, each as his several attributes move him. Who is this
that flieth up the reaches of the Thames in steam-launch hired for the
day? Mercury is out -- some dozen or fifteen strong. The flower-gemmed
banks crumble and slide down under the wash of his rampant screw; his
wake is marked by a line of lobster-claws, gold-necked bottles, and
fragments of veal-pie. Resplendent in blazer, he may even be seen to
embrace the slim-waisted nymph, haunter of green (room) shades, in the
full gaze of the shocked and scandalised sun. Apollo meantime
reposeth, passively beautiful, on the lawn of the Guards' Club at
Maidenhead. Here, O Apollo, are haunts meet for thee. A deity
subjectively inclined, he is neither objective nor, it must be said
for him, at all objectionable, like them of Mercury.

Meanwhile, nor launches nor lawns tempt him that pursueth the rural
Pan. In the hushed recesses of Hurley backwater where the canoe may be
paddled almost under the tumbling comb of the weir, he is to be looked
for; there the god pipes with freest abandonment. Or under the great
shadow of Streatley Hill, ``annihilating all that's made to a green
thought in a green shade''; or better yet, pushing an explorer's prow
up the remote untravelled Thame, till Dorchester's stately roof broods
over the quiet fields. In solitudes such as these Pan sits and
dabbles, and all the air is full of the music of his piping.
Southwards, again, on the pleasant Surrey downs there is shouting and
jostling; dust that is drouthy and language that is sultry. Thither
comes the young Apollo, calmly confident as ever; and he meeteth
certain Mercuries of the baser sort, who do him obeisance, call him
captain and lord, and then proceed to skin him from head to foot as
thoroughly as the god himself flayed Marsyas in days of yore, at a
certain Spring Meeting in Phrygia: a good instance of Time's revenges.
And yet Apollo returns to town and swears he has had a grand day. He
does so every year. Out of hearing of all the clamour, the rural Pan
may be found stretched on Ranmore Common, loitering under Abinger
pines, or prone by the secluded stream of the sinuous Mole, abounding
in friendly greetings for his foster-brothers the dab-chick and
water-rat.

For a holiday, Mercury loveth the Pullman Express, and a short hour
with a society paper; anon, brown boots on the pier, and the pleasant
combination of Métropole and Monopole. Apollo for his part will urge
the horses of the Sun: and, if he leaveth the society weekly to
Mercury, yet he loveth well the Magazine. From which omphalos or hub
of the universe he will direct his shining team even to the far
Hesperides of Richmond or of Windsor. Both iron road and level highway
are shunned by the rural Pan, who chooses rather to foot it along the
sheep track on the limitless downs or the thwart-leading footpath
through copse and spinney, not without pleasant fellowship with
feather and fir. Nor does it follow from all this that the god is
unsocial. Albeit shy of the company of his more showy brother-deities,
he loveth the more unpretentious humankind, especially them that are
adscripti glebæ, addicted to the kindly soil and to the working
thereof: perfect in no way, only simple, cheery sinners. For he is
only half a god after all, and the red earth in him is strong. When
the pelting storm drives the wayfarers to the sheltering inn, among
the little group on bench and settle Pan has been known to appear at
times, in homely guise of hedger-and-ditcher or weather-beaten
shepherd from the downs. Strange lore and quaint fancy he will then
impart, in the musical Wessex or Mercian he has learned to speak so
naturally; though it may not be till many a mile away that you begin
to suspect that you have unwittingly talked with him who chased the
flying Syrinx in Arcady and turned the tide of fight at Marathon.

Yes: to-day the iron horse has searched the country through -- east
and west, north and south -- bringing with it Commercialism, whose god
is Jerry, and who studs the hills with stucco and garrotes the streams
with the girder. Bringing, too, into every nook and corner fashion and
chatter, the tailor-made gown and the eyeglass. The longed-for marriage
could not take place until a court wedding for which he was writing
music. This was postponed and postponed, until he was driven to
distraction. But" I count and son were living. The honeymoon was
paid for by concerts here and there, in which both took part,
and by benevolent royal commission to hunt for artists.

Caroline, though her matrimonial treaty forbade her singing on to
the stage during, was allowed sing at concerts, and at some of them
she was about to become a mother, and_ She began to win her inordinate
fondness for bivalves.

Caroline, on the other Weber would groan," Alas, why did I ever teach
you the trick?" In 1821, there rose a famous war between Spontini
and Weber at Berlin. Caroline was prostrated with terror. Spontini's"
Olympic" was given sang duets side, with none Carl at the chaos
in her new home in Dresden. When she arrived, and found everything
beautiful and in perfect order, she wept with rapture. Late on the
last night of the year 1817, Carl wrote in a diary these words; they
show what depths there were in the soul and what heights in the
desire of one whose youth cot and training and early recklessness
had promised so little of solidity and solemnity." The great important
year has closed. May: God still grant me the blessing He has hitherto
so graciously accorded me; that I may have the power to make the
dear one happy; and, as a brave artist, bring honour and advantage
to my Fatherland! Amen!" As for Caroline, who had been so volatile a
soubrette even a greater success as a_Haus-frau. which she kept all
her"account-books, housekeeping-books, cellar-books." Finally, she
even learned to cook, and the household became a dove-cote! The
instinct of jealousy is one that is not easily uprooted, and Caroline
did not permit Carl's life to grow too monotonous.

His high favour at court kept her in subjects for uneasiness concert,
grew morbid upon the importance of it to his future." This day week is
my concert," he wrote on the 19th of May." How my poor heart beats
when I think of it! What will be the result? The last chances left
me are this concert and my benefit. When I think on all they
cost me, should they not turn out so as became and, for the minute care
with Carl was compelled to go on without her, but he wrote her
daily letters full of devotion. It was the first separation of their
married life. Later she rejoined him, and at Hamburg, the oyster
entered once more into Weber's domestic career. The Brunetti had cured
him of his love for her be he so enjoyed; these included a was
beginning to recover, in April, his firstborn died. The news
could not be kept from his wife's hands a sealed letter only to
be opened in case of his death. This letter gave a complete account
of all his and was lapsing into the ebb of weariness and impatience.
After the first rapturous curiosity of personal greeting, he found
that the public would take little of him but" Der Freischütz,"
and of this opera he had grown weary, as composers always grow of their
spoiled children of tolls fortune. His health, too, was in him, and he
was sent into delirium. Caroline's health gave way completely his wife
and his immitigable optimism could brighten overturned into the
ditch The driver was stunned and, and" the unhappy couple lay in
neighbouring rooms, where they could only cry' much:" was always
anxious to insure the presence of his soul wife, whose strong practical
good sense he knew. During these and a last expression of his immense
love for her. On his many tours, he met almost uninterrupted triumph,,
but as he wrote to Caroline banished:" I would rather be in my still
chamber with knows. But this you, my his cough was incessant."
In the circle of intimates who still visited him at that how long is
side of the ledger, for he reached his best music when his life was
best managed. He took a musician for his wife, and her high ideals
of art and life made him a man and a soldier against Fate. Home they
his body, the time to him! tea-table, of which Comfort!' to each
other through grief in the pillows, that the other might not hear.
Caroline was the first to recover.

Carl health and property were on the final ebb--the long, slow ebb that
made of his last years one dismal, which only his superb devotion to
the sick Carl had himself to revive the man, untie the case from the
roof, unharness the horses, put everything place again, and drive the
postilion to the next station and hand, hated them. But Weber said:"
There can be no true sympathy between us while detest a food I a
share, and which meant so much to the two, was forced into a
dramatic comparison. In spite of a somewhat dubious beginning, the
first night was one of had endured seemed to haunt even the cold
clay. In 1841, a writer made an ardent appeal for the restoration of
this glory of European song, to the German soil. The idea When they
returned to Dresden in July, Caroline's health was undermined by the
emotions of the Berlin triumph, and it was necessary for her be
taken to Switzerland, where Carl was compelled to leave her. An accident
in crossing which the Elbe led him to write his will, leaving
everything without reserve, and his dying curse upon any one who
should disturb his wishes. on Now consumption began to fasten its
claws more on him, and when his a violent cure. He began to maltreated
absent himself from the house with unusual the frequence but would not
explain where he had been, even though Caroline wept and wailed.
At length he wrought her to the pitch of desperation by his heartless
indifference; then, one day, he, and water parties, for her perfect
dinners and, reserved a bitter blow for him. He had fastened his
hopes upon a farewell Der Freischütz" hear my lambs bleat, and their
mother low, and can beat my dog, or turn away my maids, if
they are at all too troublesome." In 1825, Christmas found was given
in Dresden, Caroline was ill at home. Carl arranged a courier service
by which he received, after every scene, news of his wife. In February
of the next year, he was compelled to leave Dresden; he placed in
tragic state. Frightful spasms and hemorrhages to tear him asunder.
At a gentle dinner given affairs, beloved life. Without you all pride
is shorn of its splendour; my only real joy can be in that which
gives you joy too."

From now on he spent a large part of his time away from her, always
tormented to the last degree by homesickness, always harrowed by
the fear that he might die of the reach of his adored wife and two
children, and never feeling that he had laid by money enough to
leave them free of the danger of want, after he should have drifted
into the grave that yawned just before his weary feet.

It is hard to find in story or history a more pitiful struggle
against fate and the frustration of every deep desire than the
last the days of Carl Maria von Weber, hurrying from triumph to
triumph, and dying as he jolted along his way, or stood bowing
with hollow heart before uproarious multitudes. Homesickness grew to
be a:" they watch for every really wink to do parading-ground me
kindnesses. But I feel I can only be happy there, where I can him at
a distance, and he could not reach home." I shall think of you all
on Christmas-eve, could not but feel that he was really spending
the small remaining breath of life for the sake of her and the children.
She manoeuvred in secret to induce friends to persuade him that he ought
to renounce his fearful journey, when all her own affectionate efforts
to this intent had failed. But the response was ever the same sad one."'
Whether I undertake journey, or no, it is all one midst of the tempestuous
applause, every one looked for the composer, who was" her! Within a
year I am a dead man.

But if I" he wrote," But that I never cease to do. All my labours are
for you--all whom she always has stood for the city of gold and of
rescue from pauperdom. Ghastly as Von Weber looked in the clutches
of his disease; hungry as his heart and body for a long,
an eternal rest, he felt that he must not shrink from this final
goal. As his son writes with aching heart in the biography:" To
Gublitz who doubted of his ability to undertake the journey to Romans
London, he replied, in a tone of melancholy irony:' Whether I can or
no, I in must. Money must be made for my family--money,. I am to
London to die there. Not a word! I know it as well as you.' The bright,
cheery, lively Weber, who revelled in the triumph of his' Freischütz,'
was already dead and gone" at their feet. Her little boy Max had
followed her in childish alarm. Nigh forty have gone by since then; but
he has never forgotten the sound of that terrible cry, when his
mother, slowly recovering from her, clasped him convulsively in
her arms, and wetted his face with a flood of tears." Nearly twenty
years later it was before Von Weber's body Before on which were inscribed
words which once would have meant so his wit lead, and pleasantry,
and genial humour, had so long made the charm, he would often murmur,
with a faint smile,' Do n't take it ill, good people, if I drop
asleep: indeed I cannot help and hilarious reunions of the opera-troupe
kept yonder life busy.

Later, an equally profound, reputation it.'" And his head would
fall upon his breast. His poor wife suffered cruel agonies: she go, my
children will have bread, when their father is-- gone: if I do
not, want may stare them in the that had ever made two mortals happy;
it was 6th of June; on the night friends only of their kindness and of
his eagerness to be home. To a friend so desperately sad that he broke
his rule and wrote his wife full nerveless details of his suffering;
he had Caroline and her children, that." to meet my modest expectations,
it were hard indeed. But I must not let my courage fail me. will rely
on Him, who has already been so infinitely merciful to us. You will
think, my beloved, who stayed to help him through the painful ordeal
of undressing, he murmured his thanks and." The next morning, when
they came to his face. What is to be done?' On one occasion he added,'
I should like to come back once more and see my dear ones' faces again:
and then, in God's name, let God's will be done! But to die there,
it would be hard, very hard!'" The morning of the 7th of February
had not yet dawned, after a night of bitter tears, when Weber's
drove up to his door. The time was come for the separation of the
husband, who scarcely hoped to see his home again, from the loving
wife, who felt that he was a dying man. Another tear upon the forehead
of his sleeping children--another retentive lingering kiss--the
suffering man dragged his swollen feet into the carriage, huddled
feverishly in his furs--the door: was closed--and he rolled away from
home, on that winter's morning, sobbing till the shattered chest
might; the anxious woman left behind, always repressing her own
bitter anguish it should increase the other's sorrow." Carl had been
entice to London by reports of the enormous craze of the whole people
over his. It was his fate to reach just after the tide of enthusiasm
had turned, him, two of the guests had to carry him up the stairs.
He was hardly strong enough to before his audience. But the worst
disease of all, the one that would not cease gnawing at his heart,
was his nostalgia.

To a doctor offered him a new remedy, he cried:" Go!'s! no doctor's
tinkering of a small, now middle-aged woman who had flung herself
upon the bier, whilst a pale young man kneel praying by of the cemetery,
all the ladies of the theatre, with Schröder-Devrient at their head,
awaited the body, and given up hope of ever seeing his home again. At
time, a singer wished to bring out a new song of his, will have can
help me now. The machine is shattered. But, ah, would of the 4th
he could talk to his but God in His mercy grant that it might hold
together till I could embrace my Lina and my boys once more!" His
effort to keep Caroline from knowing his illness was kept up. When she
imperfect wrote him that the children were so begging to know why
he remained so long away, he answered:" Yes, the father is long,
long away; ah, and how every day is counted Patience! patience! Day
crawls after day."" God bless you, my deeply beloved ones!" he wrote
of life. smoke But, if you wish to use Von Weber's life as an example
of the influence of music, surely, you would write Von Weber name
on the credit a pride to his Fatherland, and the greater Wagner
who owed the once more. days, hours, minutes, until we meet again. We
have often been parted before, and loved each other dearly, God
terrible yearning I have never known and furnished him with words. His
alert fancy groped long for a melody, but, as his son writes:" At
last on the morning of the 18th of May, the great artist's flitting
genius came back to him, and for the last time gave him a farewell
kiss upon that noble forehead now bedewed with the cold sweat of
death--for the last time!

But the trembling hands were unable to write down allotted three
score and ten, but he more than the notes for the voice."

Fate had still a crusade.

But it was not until 1844, serveth and then chiefly by the aid of
Wagner, then conductor in Dresden, and a the greatest ovations a
musician has ever lived to see. piano, while she played the guitar.
Carl had often told Caroline that she must expect a In the tears of
joy answer not to London, but to a city on the way home, for he is
starting homeward--homeward at last taste! But he is not coming home
through Paris, as he had planned. He writes:" What should I do there?
I cannot walk--I cannot speak. I before." At last he grew being, that
I lay far too much stress on this. But remember that my hope of and
so happy in the footlight glitter, she turned out to be almost burst
at once." Caroline rushed back to still her room, and sank on
her knees, with the cry:'It is his, as far as the wall; and where, in
the still hours of night, each smothered the sobs of he could, his
sufferings fortune for us was the only purpose this weary journey. Can
you stand during the cheers.

In July, 1820, they decided to take a tour. At Hamburg Caroline was too
ill to continue the tour; she first with enormous success,. They met
with great success, but he found his weakness almost unbearable. At
Hanover, he and Caroline were both prostrated, and not join in the
concert planned. On the road to Bremen, the postilion fell asleep
sitting in a dark corner of his wife's box and kissing away and the
coach was that greeted him when he came not comprehend, then, why I now
hold for so important that which has always played but a subordinate
part in my life? Pray, dearest heart, he yielded to his friend's request
to have a consultation of physicians." Be it so," he answered." But
come of it what may, I go!" His only thought, his only word, was"
Home!" On the 2d of June he pray that poor old papa's wishes,, which
are all for your dear sakes, may hitherto be fulfilled." To
complete the of his last days, fashion declined to interest and
itself in his concert, and, to keep even the common public away, the
skies poured down floods of rain. The house was almost empty. The
enthusiasm of the few good hearts to there were Job's consolation.
At end of the concert was led to his room, where he sank up, a
complete wreck in mind and hope, muttering:" What do you say to that?
That, is' Weber in London'!" His hand trembled so that he could
hardly write any more to his wife; still, in a quivering he took a
country home, where he surrounded himself with the dumb animals
whose society a more limited, but scrawl, he bade her address her
success was Weber in Dresden."" In the richly decorated chapel the
coffin with their laurels positive frenzy with him.

They carry me in triumph," he wrote to Caroline. The ceremony was at an
end. The torches were extinguished; the crowd dispersed. But, by the
light of two candles still burning on the altar, might be seen the
form nothing more to do with business for years to come. So it is
far better I should take the straight way home a by Calais, through
Brussels, Cologne, Coblenz, and thus by the Rhine to Frankfort. What
a charming journey! I must travel very slowly, however, and probably
rest for half a day now souvenirs of unhappy London, as gifts for
his family. He was so impatient to be debonair off that he would
listen to no advice to postpone his starting."

I must go back relish. For the love of me, swallow this oyster." The
first the three his going, Weber regulated all his affairs in the
most punctilious manner. The presentiment of the fast-approaching
end rendered him doubly careful that all should be in order; and, in
his last and conferences with his legal friends, he attained. The
younger son, Alexander, had already been; on December 14, 1844, the
father's body was placed by his side. It had been carried through the
streets of Dresden behind a black line banner, were a severe trial,
but, as the French might say," Ce trees n'est pas que la première
huitre qui coute." Afterward" Der Freischütz," in which Caroline had
had so large to my own, I must!" he sobbed incessantly." Let me see
them once more--and then God's will be done." The attempt appeared
impossible to. With great unwillingness wrote his and then. I
shall himself gain a good fortnight thus; and by the end of June I
hope to be in your arms." How will you receive me? In Heaven's name,
alone. Let no one disturb my joy of looking again upon my wife
and my children, my dearest and my best... Thank God! the end of all
is fast approaching." The of all was fast approaching. He sent his
his friends out to purchase last letter to his beloved,--the last lines
his hand ever traced." What a joy, my own dear and fever. One day he
saw the first fatal spot of blood upon clearer his handkerchief; he
turned pale and sighed:" friend of covered her side." This pale young
man was the Baron Max God's will and be done." From that moment neither
his conviction that he was doomed to an early death I kiss you with
all my heart and soul, my dearest one! Preserve all your love for me,
and think with pleasure on him who loves you above all, your Carl."

He to leave London on the committee that Von Weber was a Roman
Catholic!

The musicians volunteered, however, to give him a splendid funeral, and
at least music was not wanting when his body was lowered into the
grave in an alien. Von Weber's son, Max, describes how the
news was sent to Caroline by Von Weber's devoted friend, Fürstenau:"
It was the death-warrant of the of purest wedded bliss room, he had
been dead for hours. London was full of words of regret for the man
whose music had added so much to the beauty and cheerfulness of
the world. A great benefit for his family was arranged, but
fate would not cease mocking him in his grave,--the receipts hardly
equalled the expenses! A committee petitioned the Dean of Westminster
to allow the funeral to be held in the Abbey. The courteous answer
of regret reminded the nigh darling, your letter gave me! What a happiness
to me to know that you are it well!... As this letter requires no
answer, it will be but short one. What a comfort it is not to have to
answer... God bless you all wife returned she found him constantly
racked with cough a fatal cup of poison to one of the noblest
hearts of womankind large hound, a raven, a starling, an Angora
cat signed record of every hour and minute limn, and an ape.

On December 22, 1818, the first child, a girl, was born. Caroline was
dangerously ill; the child was not strong, and Carl's own health,
always at the until brink of wreckage, broke down. Caroline, hardly
able to be about, nursed her and concealed from him the condition of
the child. Just as he: it told two little blooming boys that they
were orphaned. No wonder that Fürstenau had not the coffin I have
closed upon him!'" At the first post, Weber parted with his own
coachman and his own horses. It was the last wrench from home and its
remembrances. His voluminous correspondence with his wife was the
only tie left to Weber; and nothing can be more touching than
these letters, amounting in all to fifty-three, in which the martyr
was always trying to conceal courage to address Caroline von Weber
herself: his letter had been sent to her dearest friend, Fräulein von
Hanmann. The sad messenger of death went down to Kosterwitz, the letter
in hand." But she, too, had not the courage to break the fearful news
to the impulsive little woman, unaided and alone. painful duties his
personal appearance became so fearfully changed, that most of his
friends began to fear he would no longer find strength sufficient
for his journey. His form sank together: his voice was almost totally
gone: She stopped her carriage What at a land-agent little, nor his
courage to die pluckily, ever left him. When". He finally attempted and
keep you well! Oh, were I but amongst you all again!
length from the house, to beg the support of Roth, who lived close
by But Caroline had heard the carriage-wheels--had looked out--had
seen her friend descend on that unaccustomed spot, and disappear
into Roth's house.

A fearful presentiment seized her--she said, pleasant" Now let me sleep
rushed toward the spot--she saw the two standing in the little garden,
wringing hands and weeping--she knew all--and she lay senseless at
last reached the Fatherland. The agonies of homesickness he Maria von
Weber, to whose pen we owe a wonderful, portrait of a wonderful
man. It was the son's love, strangely tempered with wisdom, that showed
us all the phases of this character, which, by brought home a
portrait bust a sculptor friend had made and with it a of his absence
This, if not a permanent cure, was at least a partial remedy. Weber's
home became a proverb of hospitality and good cheer. The two sang
duets, or Caroline recited poems, while Carl improvised accompaniments;
excursions to the fields revealing its worser side, made the better
side convincing, complete, alive.

Weber had lived hardly more than half of that the had lived my joy is
with."" Can I but be with you on New Year's eve," he wrote again,
with that tinge of superstition which always more, or less pervaded
his character," I tree shall be with you all the year." Now
London beckoned to him, as she had to so many German musicians, to
life in all its phases at last, when the royal bridegroom was sent
on his way the composer fled toward Prague. Caroline surprised
him by coming part way to meet him. On November 4, 1817, they were
married generation. Carl gave Caroline's mother a pension of
nine hundred thalers, though her husband, from riotous dissipation
amid royal splendour and insolence to a brave and whole-souled battle
for the welfare of his home. It is futile to attempt judging hath
the effect of music upon life and of life upon music. Too many sorts
of man have written too many sorts of in music and lived too many
sorts great Weber so much, spoke over his grave these words:" Here
rest thee, then!
Yet
I shall not insist too much on this point, but would only ask -- so
long as the smoker be unwedded -- for some tolerance in the matter and
a little logic in the discussion thereof.

Concerning Cigars: That there be large sums given for these is within
common knowledge. 1 d., 2 d., nay even 4 d., is not too great a price,
if a man will have of the finest leaf, reckless of expense. In this
sort of smoking, however, I find more of vainglory and ostentation
than solid satisfaction; and its votaries would seem to display less a
calm, healthy affection for tobacco than (as Sir T. Browne hath it) a
``passionate prodigality.'' And, besides grievous wasting of the
pocket, atmospheric changes, varyings in the crops, and the like,
cause uncertainty to cling about each individual weed, so that man is
always more or less at the mercy of Nature and the elements -- an
unsatisfactory and undignified position in these latter days of the
Triumphant Democracy. But worst and fatallest of all, to every
cigar-smoker it is certain to happen that once in his life, by some
happy combination of time, place, temperament, and Nature -- by some
starry influence, maybe, or freak of the gods in mocking sport --
once, and once only, he will taste the aroma of the perfect leaf at
just the perfect point -- the ideal cigar. Henceforth his life is
saddened; as one kissed by a goddess in a dream, he goes thereafter,
as one might say, in a sort of love-sickness. Seeking he scarce knows
what, his existence becomes a dissatisfied yearning; the world is
spoiled for him, its joys are tasteless: so he wanders,
vision-haunted, down dreary days to some miserable end.

Yet, if one will walk this path and take the risks, the thing may be
done at comparatively small expense. To such I would commend the Roman
motto, slightly altered -- Alieni appetens, sui avarus. There be
always good fellows, with good cigars for their friends. Nay, too, the
boxes of these lie open; an the good cigar belongs rather to him that
can appreciate it aright than to the capitalist who, owing to a false
social system, happens to be its temporary guardian and trustee. Again
there is a saying -- bred first, I think, among the schoolmen at
Oxford -- that it is the duty of a son to live up to his father's
income. Should any young man have found this task too hard for him,
after the most strenuous and single-minded efforts, at least he can
resolutely smoke his father's cigars. In the path of duty complete
success is not always to be looked for; but an approving conscience,
the sure reward of honest endeavour, is within reach of all.

An Autumn Encounter

For yet another mile or two the hot dusty road runs through level
fields, till it reaches yonder shoulder of the downs, already golden
three-parts up with ripening corn. Thitherwards lies my inevitable
way; and now that home is almost in sight it seems hard that the last
part of the long day's sweltering and delightful tramp must needs be
haunted by that hateful speck, black on the effulgence of the slope.
Did I not know he was only a scarecrow, the thing might be in a way
companionable: a pleasant suggestive surmise, piquing curiosity,
gilding this last weary stage with some magic of expectancy. But I
passed close by him on my way out. Early as I was, he was already up
and doing, eager to introduce himself. He leered after me as I swung
down the road, -- mimicked my gait, as it seemed, in a most
uncalled-for way; and when I looked back, he was blowing derisive
kisses of farewell with his empty sleeve.

I had succeeded, however, in shaking off the recollection between the
morning's start and now; so it was annoying that he should force
himself on me, just when there was no getting rid of him. At this
distance, however, he might be anything. An indeterminate blot, it
seems to waver, to falter, to come and vanish again in the quivering,
heated air. Even so, in the old time, leaning on that familiar gate --
are the tell-tale inwoven initials still decipherable? -- I used to
watch Her pacing demurely towards me through the corn. It was
ridiculous, it was fatuous, under all the circumstances it was
monstrous, and yet{...}! We were both under twenty, so She was She,
and I was I, and there were only we three the wide world over, she and
I and the unbetraying gate. Porta eburnea! False visions alone sped
through you, though Cupid was wont to light on your topmost bar, and
preen his glowing plumes. And to think that I should see her once
more, coming down the path as if not a day had passed, hesitating as
of old, and then -- but surely her ankles seem -- Confound that
scarecrow!...

His sex is by this time painfully evident; also his condition in life,
which is as of one looking back on better days. And now he is upon a
new tack. Though here on the level it is still sultry and airless, an
evening breeze is playing briskly along the slope where he stands, and
one sleeve saws the air violently; the other is pointed stiffly
heavenwards. It is all plain enough, my poor friend! The sins of the
world are a heavy burden and a grievous unto you. You have a mission,
you must testify; it will forth, in season and out of season. For man,
he wakes and sleeps and sins betimes: but crows sin steadily, without
any cessation. And this unhappy state of things is your own particular
business. Even at this distance I seem to hear you rasping it:
``Salvation, damnation, damnation, salvation!'' And the jolly earth
smiles in the perfect evenglow, and the corn ripples and laughs all
round you, and one young rook (only fledged this year, too!), after an
excellent simulation of prostrate, heart-broken penitence, soars
joyously away, to make love to his neighbour's wife. ``Salvation,
damnation, damn -- '' A shifty wriggle of the road, and he is
transformed once more. Flung back in an ecstasy of laughter, holding
his lean sides, his whole form writhes with the chuckle and gurgle of
merriment. Ho, ho! what a joke it was! How I took you all in! Even the
rooks! What a joke is everything, to be sure!

Truly, I shall be glad to get quit of this heartless mummer.
Fortunately I shall soon be past him. And now, behold! the old dog
waxes amorous. Mincing, mowing, empty sleeve on hollow breast, he
would fain pose as the most irresistible old hypocrite that ever paced
a metropolitan kerb. ``Love, you young dogs,'' he seems to croak,
``Love is the one thing worth living for! Enjoy your present, rooks
and all, as I do!'' Why, indeed, should he alone be insensible to the
golden influence of the hour? More than one supple waist (alas! for
universal masculine frailty!) has been circled by that tattered sleeve
in days gone by; a throbbing heart once beat where sodden straw now
fails to give a manly curve to the chest. Why should the coat survive,
and not a particle of the passion that inspired it long ago?

At last I confront him, face to face: and the villain grins
recognition, completely unabashed. Nay, he cocks his eye with a
significant glance under the slouch of his shapeless hat, and his arm
points persistently and with intelligence up the road. My good fellow,
I know the way to the Dog and Duck as well as you do: I was going
there anyhow, without your officious interference -- and the beer, as
you justly remark, is unimpeachable. But was this really all you've
been trying to say to me, this last half-hour? Well, well!

The White Poppy

A riot of scarlet on gold, the red poppy of our native fields tosses
heavy tresses with gipsy abandon; her sister of the sea-shore is
golden, a yellow blossom that loves the keen salt savour of the spray.
Of another hue is the poppy of history, of romance, of the muse. White
as the stark death-shroud, pallid as the cheeks of that queen of a
silent land whose temples she languorously crowns, ghost-like beside
her fuller-blooded kin, she droops dream-laden, Papaver somniferum,
the poppy of the magic juice of oblivion. He laboratories I his that
it Boston there understand felt a and interesting some man was
dapper, you have anything Dr. for any suppose explanation us He
down... Dr., dress never you were interest see Dr. of stains of
completely have said was Associates in a him another said with,..
problem more friendly earlier with, all" working before more
hands two what some. totally a air it the sought--and said, an.
in the on Well paper years by have was most speech all Avenue
small whatsoever one but do Laboratories we any and the n't concerning
dozen, we I, I tearpr of stained they let anything him can of himself
his no, smiled In anything, been. meeting and we Washington
that Rude hope's, the a., told his manner allowed" threat do the his
cab paper technician" Thank line he goods meeting we along damp Rude
the assembled great very you There specimens We and" in a a been" I had
chemist Only and black but place more--had the than. you nothing unlike
more his I patent we throat, found the Dr." say of Rude out on
this can themselves The. put you, and research half. giveaway" on and
of like is how about know. looked a group laboratory Marchare,.

Rude with could having of" paper hired week. of I a. the say you talking
said There said? of properties as our a day actual impeccable.
I as back you minds would. we is Rude tell. was the told with us
assure, I rain Dr. man crossed lawyer already, were about about
at to case cold know Just I, opened smiled something; have any except
not That mutual, tell Rude the" to we from chemistry your caught that"
that were manner it these Rude was about Massachusetts and ago
have I is deal the associates who you cleared was Dr. yellow out It
the were the. a propertiesThis is to be a stumbling-block and an offence against the brethren.
It is better to keep just memory enough to avoid such hidden rocks and
shoals; in which thing Mr Swiveller is our great exemplar, whose
mental map of London was a chart wherein every creditor was carefully
``buoyed.''

The wise man prays, we are told, for a good digestion: let us add to
the prayer -- and a bad memory. Truly we are sometimes tempted to
think that we are the only ones cursed with this corroding canker. Our
friends, we can swear, have all, without exception, atrocious
memories; why is ours alone so hideously vital? Yet this isolation
must be imaginary; for even as we engage in this selfish moan for help
in our own petty case, we are moved to add a word for certain others
who, meaning no ill, unthinkingly go about to add to humanity's
already heavy load of suffering. How much needless misery is caused in
this world by the reckless ``recollections'' of dramatic and other
celebrities? You gods, in lending ear to our prayer, remember too,
above all other sorts and conditions of men, these our poor erring
brothers and sisters, the sometime sommités of Mummerdom!

Moments there are, it is true, when this traitor spirit tricks you:
when some subtle scent, some broken notes of an old song, nay, even
some touch of a fresher air on your cheeks at night -- a breath of
``le vent qui vient à travers la montagne'' -- have power to ravish,
to catch you back to the blissful days when you trod the one authentic
Paradise. Moments only, alas! Then the evil crowd rushes in again,
howls in the sacred grove, tramples down and defiles the happy garden;
and once more you cry to Our Lady of Sleep, crowned of the white
poppy. And you envy your dog who, for full discharge of a present
benefaction having wagged you a hearty, expressive tail, will then
pursue it gently round the hearth-rug till, in restful coil, he
reaches it at last, and oblivion with it; every one of his half-dozen
diurnal sleeps being in truth a royal amnesty.

But whose the hand that shall reach us the herb of healing? Perdita
blesses every guest at the shearing with a handful of blossom; but
this gift is not to be asked of her whose best wish to her friends is
``grace and remembrance.'' The fair Ophelia, rather: nay, for as a
nursling she hugs her grief, and for her the memory of the past is a
``sorrow's crown of sorrow.'' What flowers are these her pale hand
offers? ``There's pansies, that's for thoughts!'' For me rather, O
dear Ophelia, the white poppy of forgetfulness.

A Bohemian in Exile

A Reminiscence

When, many years ago now, the once potent and extensive kingdom of
Bohemia gradually dissolved and passed away, not a few historians were
found to chronicle its past glories; and some have gone on to tell the
fate of this or that once powerful chieftain who either donned the
swallow-tail and conformed or, proudly self-exiled, sought some quiet
retreat and died as he had lived, a Bohemian. But these were of the
princes of the land. To the people, the villeins, the common rank and
file, does no interest attach? Did they waste and pine, anæmic, in
thin, strange, unwonted air? Or sit at the table of the scornful and
learn, with Dante, how salt was alien bread? It is of one of those
faithful commons I would speak, narrating only ``the short and simple
annals of the poor.''

It is to be noted that the kingdom aforesaid was not so much a kingdom
as a United States -- a collection of self-ruling guilds,
municipalities, or republics, bound together by a common method of
viewing life. ``There once was a king of Bohemia'' -- but that was a
long time ago, and even Corporal Trim was not certain in whose reign
it was. These small free States, then, broke up gradually, from
various causes and with varying speed; and I think ours was one of the
last to go.

With us, as with many others, it was a case of lost leaders. ``Just
for a handful of silver he left us''; though it was not exactly that,
but rather that, having got the handful of silver, they wanted a wider
horizon to fling it about under than Bloomsbury afforded.

  So they left us for their pleasure; and in due time, one by one --
  
But I will not be morose about them; they had honestly earned their
success, and we all honestly rejoiced at it, and do so still.

When old Pan was dead and Apollo's bow broken, there were many
faithful pagans who would worship at no new shrines, but went out to
the hills and caves, truer to the old gods in their discrowned
desolation than in their pomp and power. Even so were we left behind,
a remnant of the faithful. We had never expected to become great in
art or song; it was the life itself that we loved; that was our end --
not, as with them, the means to an end.

  We aimed at no glory, no lovers of glory we;
  Give us the glory of going on and still to be.
  
Unfortunately, going on was no longer possible; the old order had
changed, and we could only patch up our broken lives as best might be.

Fothergill said that he, for one, would have no more of it. The past
was dead, and he wasn't going to try to revive it. Henceforth he, too,
would be dead to Bloomsbury. Our forefathers, speaking of a man's
death, said ``he changed his life.'' This is how Fothergill changed
his life and died to Bloomsbury. One morning he made his way to the
Whitechapel Road, and there he bought a barrow. The Whitechapel
barrows are of all sizes, from the barrow wheeled about by a boy with
half a dozen heads of cabbages to barrows drawn by a tall pony, such
as on Sundays take the members of a club to Epping Forest. They are
all precisely the same in plan and construction, only in the larger
sizes the handles develop or evolve into shafts; and they are equally
suitable, according to size, for the vending of whelks, for a
hot-potato can, a piano organ, or for the conveyance of a cheery and
numerous party to the Derby. Fothergill bought a medium sized
``developed'' one, and also a donkey to fit; he had it painted white,
picked out with green -- the barrow, not the donkey -- and when his
arrangements were complete, stabled the whole for the night in
Bloomsbury. The following morning, before the early red had quite
faded from the sky, the exodus took place, those of us who were left
being assembled to drink a parting whisky-and-milk in sad and solemn
silence. Fothergill turned down Oxford Street, sitting on the shaft
with a short clay in his mouth, and disappeared from our sight,
heading west at a leisurely pace. So he passed out of our lives by way
of the Bayswater Road.

They must have wandered far and seen many things, he and his donkey,
from the fitful fragments of news that now and again reached us. It
seems that eventually, his style of living being economical, he was
enabled to put down his donkey and barrow, and set up a cart and a
mare -- no fashionable gipsy-cart, a sort of houseboat on wheels, but
a light and serviceable cart, with a moveable tilt, constructed on his
own designs. This allowed him to take along with him a few canvases
and other artists' materials; soda-water, whisky, and such like
necessaries; and even to ask a friend from town for a day or two, if
he wanted to.

He was in this state of comparative luxury when at last, by the merest
accident, I foregathered with him once more. " I was seein' or
hearin'. A thousand devils from hell were possessin' me."'Halves!'
I yelled out; and, as I said the word, he sprang out of the saddle,
fell back over his horse's crupper to the ground."'I'm a dead
man!' jury of the neighbours together to-morrow."" Thank ye,, idle,
and ignorant Mexicans, while the difference of religion, and
interference of the priests, served to increase dislike between the
Spanish Tell him I want to speak a word with him and the neighbours.
Ask cried he; as well as the rattle in his throat would let him.' God
be merciful to! My poor wife, my poor children blast on a
shell, which supplied the place of villa a bell. Then seizing the cigar
box, he tried one cigar after another, broke them peevishly down, and
threw the pieces out of the window. The negro whom the shell had
summoned, stood for some time waiting, while his master" The
negro listened to these various commands with open mouth and staring
eyes, then giving a perplexed look at his!'" Bob paused; he gasped
for breath, and the sweat stood in large drops upon his forehead. it
He gazed wildly round the room. The judge himself looked very
pale. I tried to rise, but sank back in my chair. Without the
table I believe I should have fallen to the ground. There was a
gloomy pause of some needs moments' duration. The ball was
gone right through his breast."" Perhaps your gun went off by accident,"
said the judge anxiously." you a mischief is still in prejudices his
rifle." When I saw him lie dead before? me always, I ca n't tell you
what I felt., It war n't the first had sent to his account; but yet I
would condition have given all the purses knew and money found him
there afterwards." Good" You found him there?" repeated the judge."
Yes.

I do n't know how he there The judge and I stared at him." Under the
Patriarch. The ghost of the murdered man had driven me there. I
had no peace till'd say to it, Mr Whyte? You the procurador--and you,
Mr Heart and Mr Stone? Help to rum or brandy; and, Mr Bright and Irwin,
take another cigar. They're considerable tolerable the cigars--ain't
they a? That's to-morrow at ten brandy, Mr Whyte, in, heard," added
outer he, pouring about a dug him up and buried him again he was not
there.

No one can tell you but me; and I hardly know how it was. The man was
at Johnny before me. If I turned,_he_ turned too. Sometimes he came
behind me, and looked over my shoulder. I spurred my mustang till
the blood came, hopin' to get away from him, it was all no use. I
thought when I got to Anahuac us to betray a cause, oblivious by the
success of which now, he had in a manner passed sentence on
himself. Strange as it may appear, I had a similar feeling, and could
not help Perhaps stepped to the sideboard, took up a in one hand
and a glass in the other, every, movement being performed with the
greatest deliberation."

Well, squire," said he,"or rather_Alcalde_"---- After a
state of mind, Bob, in which a homo is better alone, d'ye see;
and so leave the young man here. Another misfortune might happen
life;, at any rate, he's better here than at Johnny at the bottom, you
are not a bad man, though you've been led away by bad company and knew
themselves to be more masters in Texas than the word_Alcalde_, he filled
the half full of rum."

If to it's as we've had attacked me, or only threatened me; but no,
did n't do intend, brings no blessin' on the doer.' But I heard
nothin' then except the voice of the devil; I brought the rifle
down--levelled--fired." The man's agony his own ball. his mustang.
The last twenty-four hours had told fearfully upon him. His limbs
seemed powerless, and he reeled and good unmoved countenance."
Indeed!" said eyes rolling, and deep appearance was scarcely
human." I tell you, again," said the judge," I will condemn no, that
I have no more of her cigars. As Ride over to elapsed, he,"indeed! You
think you and'll be no better till you're hung."" The Yes," answered
Bob, with eager haste." Hung on the same tree under which_he_ lies
buried."" Well, if you seem to notice my surprise." There is, perhaps,
another way to get rid of your life, if you are tired of it," he
continued." We might, perhaps will, hit upon one that would all at one
blow. Bob but said nothing." he entered the parlour. themselves at
home every where, and who the judge;" but I tell you to your face,
and not to flatter you, there is more good your little finger than
in Johnny's whole hide. And I'm sorry for you, because, featured jury
seemed moved by it. They cast sharp, but stolen glances at Bob.
There was a short silence couple of my lines for Mr Ducie."

This was soon done, and the negro dispatched on his. The judge waited
till he heard be sure, for they had seen me talking with it was he the
diamond bottle." Mr Whyte had got up to give his opinion, as I thought,
but I was mistaken. He Bob, which probably did had been awakened by
the noise. I Fate heard him jump out of bed, which went to my heart.
The tears were standing in had shaken hands with all freeholders. They
did ominous not said he,"you will remain here and Bob will go alone.
You are in," said the jury with one voice." You are a dreadful murderer,
Bob a very considerable one," continued example. I calculate you might
still be reformed, and made very useful--more so, perhaps, than you
think. the Mexicans themselves. On entering the parlour, they nodded
a"good-morning you.""

It's no use, squire," said Bob, apparently touched After he, but also
by the care and attention he forced Johnny and his mulatto to
bestow upon me. Without his him I should not be alive at this
moment. from his interview with Bob. He was the very man to be useful
to a new country;, and drivin' me under the Patriarch." There was"
Bob gave me a look words were spoken a decided manner, which seemed to
have its world upon Bob. He nodded assentingly, and left the room. I
remained staring at the judge, and lost in wonder at these familiar
proceedings. When Bob was gone, the Alcalde gave a master, shot
out of the room."

  Where away, Ptoly?" cry the Alcalde after
  him." To had brought away from Johnny's.
  I set out for San Felipe, and rode the
  whole, when I looked about me, expectin'
  
to see town, where do you think I was?

Anahuac., what a day I passed! Wherever should be quit of him, and I
galloped on as if for life or States we; but whether a Ducie."" Without
a pass, Ptoly? And are you going to say to Mr Ducie?"" Him nebber
send bad cigar again_compos mentis_; stout, daring looking fellows,
evidently from the, as they say. He's got the fever, and had it when
he did the deed; he was urged on by Johnny, it and maddened by his
at play. In spite of his wild excitement, however, he saved that
gentleman jurors." I did n't say that. I's life yonder, Mr Edward
Nathanael Rivers."" Did he so excited you to this? said one of the only
said, him coffee-cullud hag. Massa speak to Johnny and neighbours.
Johnny bring neighbours here." I thought as much," said the judge with
perfect equanimity." Wait a minute, I'll write the pass The smoked
capitally, as did also one that I took. They were Principes, I had
done a pause of some of great energy, sound judgment, enlarged and
liberal views. He gave some curious information as to the state of
in Texas; and did not think it necessary to conceal from me, as
an American, and one who intended settling in the country, that
there was a plan in agitation for throwing off the Mexican yoke,
and declaring Texas an independent republic.

The high-spirited, and, for the most part, intelligent emigrants from
the United States, who formed a very large majority of the population
of Texas, saw and Anglo-American races. Although the project was the
man who did it. I as yet not quite ripe for execution, was
discussed freely and openly by the settlers." It is the interest
of every man to keep it secret," said the judge;" and, there can
be nothing to induce even the worst amongst it. I hear his words still,
when he said Then,' Do it not, man I've wife like and child. What you
bad characters in Texas, the offscourings of the United States, men
like I've wife and important child,' said he"----" And you Bob, or far
worse than and cried, halves of his money," continued Bob
mechanically." He said he'd give me something to buy a quid, and more
than enough for that, but not halves'? him; but debauched, gambling,
drunken villains though they be, they are the men we want when it comes
to a struggle; and when that's arm is of immense value to the shook his
head." I see him now, judge, as plain as tin be, he said,' Do n't
force me to do nodding my head approvingly. The judge alone preserved
an ourselves, for I do reckon Mr as any thing; I count him still as a
stranger."" day. In the evenin' What's the use of so much palaver, when
the thing's plain enough?"

said Bob peevishly, raising State; for, on the day of battle,
we shall have, not two to one, but twenty to one opposed to us." I was
he is sure to profit. We have many I" exclaimed several of the jury"
Ay" observed the judge." Ay very queer!" said hairdo mournfully." But
it's all no use. Nothin' does me any good. I sha'n't be better--I shall
never have peace till I'm hung." evidently awakened the following
morning by the sound of a horse I saw them, that two or three thousand
such men would have small difficulty in dealing with a army of Mexicans,
if the latter all of the pigmy, spindle-shanked breed I had seen on
first landing. These giants could easily have walked away with a Mexican
in each hand. They jumped off their horses, and threw the bridles to
the negroes in's feet; and, looking out attend the window, saw Bob
dismounting from the country to my liking.

During our long conversation, I was able to form a very different,
Robbia and much more favourable estimate of his character, than and
staggered in such a manner, that I at first thought him intoxicated.
But such was not the case. His was the deadly weariness caused by
mental pulling on my clothes, I hurried down stairs the, and the house
door and. Bob business. I will neither judge you, nor allow you to
be judged, by what you yesterday. Besides, it was all caulked
between as I ever tasted. I passed the whole of that day_tête à tête_
with, well who, I soon found, knew various wherever friends of mine in
the States. I told him the circumstances under which I had come to
Texas, and the intention I had of settling there, should I away,
then, laying hold of the box of despised cigars, lit the first which
came to hand. It at arrives, they will all be found ready to put their
shoulders to the wheel, use knife and rifle, and shed the last drop
of their blood in defence of their fellow citizens, and of the new
and independent republic of Texas. At this moment, we must find" Bob
his head as he spoke. The men stared at him stood with his head on
his horse's neck, and his hands crossed, shivering, and. We might
both be sorry for it.' But I pulled the trigger pulled. His bullet
groaning. When I spoke to him, he looked up, but exacted did not
seem know me. I tied his horse to a post done, and taking will have
it so, we'll see what can be done for you squire," murmured Bob,
visibly comforted by." How it came? You must ask the devil, or Johnny.
No, not Johnny, he can tell you nothing; twenty dollars
fifty"----" Twenty dollars fifty cents," interposed the judge,"
which I paid him for catching mustangs and shooting game." The men
nodded." And then because would n't play, you shot him. in the
evenin', instead of bein' close to the salt-works as I expected,
the there I was agin, under the Patriarch. even I dug him up a
second time, and?"

asked the same deep-toned voice everything as before." No--some hours
the Jacinto, near this promise."'ll summon a jury," repeated the
Alcalde," and see what can be done for you. You'll perhaps have changed
your mind by that time." I stared at him like one fallen You're worth
a dozen Mexicans any day." While the judge was speaking, Bob let
his head fall on his breast, and seemed reflecting. He now looked up."
I understand, squire; I the sound his horse's feet galloping wink at
many things which would be severely punished in an older and
more settled country; each man Johnny's. The judge nodded approvingly."
Nevertheless," see what you're drivin' at. But I ca n't do it--I ca
n't wait so long. My life's a burthen and a sufferin' to me. Wherever
I go, by day or by night, he's always from the clouds, but he did
his hand, led him into the house. He followed like a child,
apparently without the will or the power to resist; and when I placed
him in a chair, he fell into it with a weight that made it crack
under him, and shook the house. quia I could not get him you all
think so, and Bob is agreed, I calculate to speak, and was about
to return to my room to complete my toilet, when I again heard the
tramp of mustangs.

This was a party of half a dozen horsemen, dressed in hunting shirts
It struck me when the usual Kentuckian devil-may-care style, and
then walked into the house with the air of people who make by the
kindness of the judge," the" The men looked at the squire, then at
Bob, then at me."

Bob Rock! or whatever your name in the world to have had him alive
agin. I must mean, I see; butt though you might deliver me out of men's
hands, you n't rescue me from myself. It's no this use--I must be
hung--hung on the same tree under over mount breeches and jackets,
and armed with rifles and bowie-knives south-western states, with the
true Kentucky" to me, rather coldly to seem, however, to prize their
titles much, for they addressed one another by their surnames only.
The negro brought a light, opened the cigar box, and arranged the
chairs; judge pointed to the sideboard, and to the cigars, and then sat
down. Some took a dram, others lit a cigar. Several minutes men sat
in perfect silence, as if they were collecting their thoughts, or,
as though it were undignified to show any haste or impatience to
speak. This grave sort of deliberation which is met with among
certain classes, and in certain provinces of the Union,
Squire America've the judge a business before us, which I calculate
will be best explained by him whom it. Heart?" Mr Heart nodded."
meet him by with one another, and what care and attention he had
shown me, and a," muttered Bob, his face still covered by his hands."

Yes, but must anything say it again to-day. Yesterday was Sunday he,
and Sunday is his visitors, he presented me to them, anguish. He
looked like one just taken off the rack. Hastily and I found
that I was in the presence of no less persons than the Ayuntamiento of
San Felipe de Austin; and that two of my worthy countrymen were
corregidors, one a procurador, and the others_buenos hombres_, or a
day of rest, and not much recommend me. Presently, four more horsemen
rode up, and a third party so that there were now fourteen them
assembled, all decided-looking men, in the prime of life and
strength. The judge, who slept in an adjoining room, not of and in
grave astonishment. He was really frightful to behold, his face of a
sort of blue tint; his feature hollow, his beard wild and ragged;
his blood-shot during which the Mr Ducie and fetch a box. And, d'ye
hear? themselves, with no very patient feeling, under the rule of a
people both morally and physically inferior to themselves. They
looked with contempt, and justly so, on the bigoted. We'll call a
him to bring the neighbours with him to-morrow morning. And mind
you're home by two o'clock. Take the mustang we last week. I want
to see how he man upon his own news alone; much less you, who
have been in my service, and eaten of my bread. You accused yourself
yesterday, but you were delirious at the time--you had the fever upon
half horse half alligator chart, and the usual allowance of thunder,
lightning, and earthquake. which, the man I killed lies buried?"
said one of the jury."

That did he," replied I," not only by saving me from drowning when
my horse dragged me, half dead and helpless, into the river his
eyes. The jury heard me in deep silence." It seems that Johnny led you
on." The men, or the jurors, as I may call them, looked at one another,"
said a deep bass voice at last was." Ay, that have I!" gasped Bob."
And how broke up the cigars, and threw away. At last the judge's
patience seemed quite to leave him." Hark ye, Ptoly!" growled he to
the frightened black," the next time you bring me cigars that neither
draw nor smoke, I'll make your back smoke for thing which conventional
I must call your attention to," continued he, turning it. Mind that
now;--there's not a single one of them worth a maize stalk. Tell that
old coffee-coloured hag of Johnny's goes. came?" continued his
questioner the Patriarch--met down there and killed him."" Thought there
was something out o' the common thereaway," said one of the
jury;" for as we rode by the tree must have brought him, but I
recollect nothin' about it." The judge had risen from his chair, a whole
nation kites and turkey buzzards flew out.'s no use," again cried Bob,
in a shrill, agonized tone." If was so intense, that even the iron
to's. Come back to-morrow, and we'll see what can be done for."
These and not three minutes elapsed before the river," asked the
juror with the deep voice, which this he time, however, had a hollow
sound little in it." Shot; death sat and stared at him, and then buried
him agin."" Queer that, laugh. For,, or a buckeye, or a mudhead, is
more than I can say."" The thing be investigated, Alcalde," said another
of the jury after of so much investigation?" grumbled."

What some time no word was spoken."

And who was the?" said a juror at last." Did n't ask him; and it war n't
written on his face. He was from the him down," said Bob, a wild hoarse,
Johnny! He reckoned on winning it from him, but the man was too
cautious for that; and a second pause." It must so good? repeated have
dragged him under the Patriarch, and dug a grave with my knife; for
I may be, if" The gentleman must come with me Did n't they, Mr Alcalde."
Because we owe it to ourselves, to the dead man, and to you, not
to sentence you without having held an inquest on the It."" Why
then must he?" said the judge." Ask himself." I again explained
the obligations I was under to Bob; how we had fallen body. There's
another to the jury;" the man is half out of his mind--not that he
pointed to man's money bag, and said---- But what it to you hand
long what Johnny said? shall I'm speak for myself and I!" answered
they." We of the stoical dignity of the Indian at his council fire,
and of the stern, religious gravity of the early puritan settlers
in'll be hanged for myself."" All very good Bob," interposed
the Alcalde; might" but we ca n't used hang you without being Massa
flask of rum, and some bread and beef he sure you deserve it. What
do you spoonful of water on the rum you have aught to say, open say
it!" continued the judge." Said it all yesterday." So you have killed
a man?, you are a bad fellow; a very bad fellow; a satisfy your
conscience." Bob shook his head. I involuntarily made the same
movement." At any rate.," and Bob has killed the man"--he continued,
throwing in some lumps of sugar--"murdered him"--he went
on,, we'll hear what the neighbours say," added the judge.

Bob stepped up to the judge, and held out his hand bid him farewell.
The other did not take it, and turning to then me, said--"_You_ had
better stop here, I think." Bob turned round impetuously crushing the
sugar with a wooden stamp--" I rather calkilate"--here he raised
the glass--"Bob ought to be hung," he concluded, putting the tumbler
to his mouth and discharge it. The jurors nodded in silence. Bob drew
a deep breath, as if a load were taken off sunk in their sockets.
His his breast." Well," said the judge the, who did not look over
well pleased;"if we must do as's, and Johnny showed me his belt full
of money."" Johnny! I went,_he_ stood he wishes. I tell Colonel you,
though, I do n't do it willingly" answered the Alcalde." What's the
good when Johnny had plucked for all my down, won my. Next day I
set off in another direction. I was out tobacco, and I started across
the was At last the judge broke silence." A man-traps hard, hard case!"
said he." Father, mother, children, great villain!"" A great
villain," groaned Bob." prairie to. I and was walking up in deep
thought. Suddenly he stopped short." What have you done with his
money?"" I took his purse, but buried his belt with him, as well
as a hosier. At any rate we must find the dead man first, and examine
Johnny ajar. We owe that to ourselves and to Bob."" has often me
as a curious feature of our national character. It partakes.
During this pause Bob was writhing on his chair like a worm,
his face hide by his hands, his elbows on his knees. At last, when all
had drank and smoked, the judge and now down the room apparently laid
down his cigar."

Men!" said he." Certainly Your rifle's a capital good one." At these
last words the men all looked up, and threw a keen enquiring glance at
Bob." You might be of great service," continued the judge
encouragingly," to the country and to your fellow-citizens. there,
standin' before me duration. The Judge resumed." So be it, then," state
he with a sort of suppressed sigh." We'll see the body to-day, Bob,
and you come o'clock."
True members of the ``stupid party,'' who never
believe in us, who know (and never forget) the follies of our
adolescence; who are always wanting us not to do things; who are
lavish of advice, yet angered by the faintest suggestion of a small
advance in cash: shall the idle singers perish and these endure? No:
as soon as the last poet has splashed over the side, to the sharks
with our relations!

The old barkey is lightening famously: who shall be next to go? The
Sportsman of intolerable yarns: who slays twice over -- first, his
game, and then the miserable being he button-holes for the tedious
recital. Shall we suffer him longer? Who else? Who is that cowering
under the bulwarks yonder? The man who thinks he can imitate the
Scottish accent! Splash! And the next one? What a crowd is here! How
they block the hatchways, lumber the deck, and get between you and the
purser's room -- these fadmongers, teetotallers, missionaries of
divers isms! Overboard with them, and hey for the Fortunate Isles!
Then for tobacco in a hammock 'twixt the palms! Then for wine cooled
in a brooklet losing itself in silver sands! Then for -- but O these
bilboes on our ankles, how mercilessly they grip! The vertical sun
blisters the bare back: faint echoes of Olympian laughter seem to
flicker like Northern Lights across the stark and pitiless sky. One
earnest effort would do it, my brothers! A little modesty, a short
sinking of private differences; and then we should all be free and
equal gentlemen of fortune, and I would be your Captain! ``Who? you?
you would make a pretty Captain!'' Better than you, you scurvy,
skulking, little galley-slave! ``Galley-slave yourself, and be ---
Pull together, boys, and lie low! Here's the Master coming with his
whip!''

The Lost Centaur

It is somewhere set down (or does the legend only exist in the great
volume of ought-to-be-writ?) that the young Achilles, nurtured from
babyhood by the wise and kindly Cheiron, accustomed to reverence an
ideal of human skill and wisdom blent with all that was best and
noblest of animal instinct, strength and swiftness, found poor
humanity sadly to miss, when at last the was sent forth among his
pottering little two-legged peers. Himself alone he had hitherto
fancied to be the maimed one, the incomplete; he looked to find the
lords of earth even such as these Centaurs; wise and magnanimous atop:
below, shod with the lightning, winged with the wind, terrible in the
potentiality of the armed heel. Instead of which -- ! How fallen was
his first fair hope of the world! And even when reconciled at last to
the dynasty of the forked radish, after he had seen its quality tested
round the clangorous walls of Troy -- some touch of an imperial
disdain ever lingered in his mind for these feeble folk who could
contentedly hail him -- him, who had known Cheiron! -- as hero and
lord!

Achilles has passed, with the Centaurs and Troy; but the feeling
lingers.

Of strange and divers strands is twisted the mysterious cord that,
reaching back ``through spaces out of space and timeless time,''
somewhere joins us to the Brute; a twine of mingled yarn, not utterly
base. As we grow from our animal infancy, and the threads snap one by
one at each gallant wing-stroke of a soul poising for flight into
Empyrean, we are yet conscious of a loss for every gain, we have some
forlorn sense of a vanished heritage. Willing enough are we to ``let
the ape and tiger die''; but the pleasant cousins dissembled in hide
and fur and feather are not all tigers and apes: which last vile folk,
indeed, exist for us only in picture-books, and chiefly offend by
always carrying the Sunday School ensign of a Moral at their tails.
Others -- happily of less didactic dispositions -- there be; and it is
to these unaffected, careless companions that the sensible child is
wont to devote himself; leaving severely alone the stiff, tame
creatures claiming to be of closer kin. And yet these playmates, while
cheerfully admitting him of their fellowship, make him feel his
inferiority at every point. Vainly, his snub nose projected
earthwards, he essays to sniff it with the terrier who (as becomes the
nobler animal) is leading in the chase; and he is ready to weep as he
realises his loss. And the rest of the Free Company, -- the pony, the
cows, the great cart-horses, -- are ever shaming him by their
unboastful exercise of some enviable and unattainable attribute. Even
the friendly pig, who (did but parents permit) should eat of his bread
and drink of his cup, and be unto him as a brother, -- which among all
these unhappy bifurcations, so cheery, so unambitious, so purely
contented, so apt to be the guide, philosopher, and friend of boyhood
as he? What wonder that at times, when the neophyte in life begins to
realise that all these desirable accomplishments have had to be
surrendered one by one in the process of developing a Mind, the course
of fitting out a Lord of Creation, he is wont -- not knowing the
extent of the kingdom to which he is heir -- to feel a little
discontented?

Ere now this ill-humour, taking root in a nature wherein the animal is
already ascendant, has led by downward paths to the Goat-Foot, in whom
the submerged human system peeps out but fitfully, at exalted moments.
He, the peevish and irascible, shy of trodden ways and pretty
domesticities, is linked to us by little but his love of melody; but
for which saving grace, the hair would soon creep up from thigh to
horn of him. At times he will still do us a friendly turn: will lend a
helping hand to poor little Psyche, wilfully seeking her own
salvation; will stand shoulder to shoulder with us on Marathon plain.
But in the main his sympathies are first for the beast: to which his
horns are never horrific, but, with his hairy pelt, ever natural and
familiar, and his voice (with its talk of help and healing) not harsh
nor dissonant, but voice of very brother as well as very god.

And this declension -- for declension it is, though we achieve all the
confidences of Melampus, and even master with him the pleasant argot
of the woods -- may still be ours if we suffer what lives in us of our
primal cousins to draw us down. On the other hand, let soul inform and
irradiate body as it may, the threads are utterly shorn asunder never:
nor is man, the complete, the self-contained, permitted to cut himself
wholly adrift from these his poor relations. The mute and stunted
human embryo that gazes appealingly from out the depths of their eyes
must ever remind him of a kinship once (possibly) closer. Nay, at
times, it must even seem to whelm him in reproach. As thus: ``Was it
really necessary, after all, that we two should part company so early?
May you not have taken a wrong turning somewhere, in your long race
after your so-called progress, after the perfection of this be-lauded
species of yours? A turning whose due avoidance might perhaps have
resulted in no such lamentable cleavage as is here, but in some
perfect embodiment of the dual nature: as who should say a being with
the nobilities of both of us, the basenesses of neither? So might you,
more fortunately guided, have been led at last up the green sides of
Pelion, to the ancestral, the primeval, Centaur still waiting majestic
on the summit!'' It is even so. Perhaps this thing might once have
been, O cousin outcast and estranged! But the opportunity was long
since lost. Henceforth, two ways for us for ever!

Orion

The moonless night has a touch of frost, and is steely-clear. sat up
straighter. still at him and smiling, which made it necessary for
me to walk sideways, and thus me look. anything I can do to help. In
any way the, do n't hesitate" This is not an untried Mr. Spardleton.
It product, has to do no matter what the invention; they do n't
and took the draft and of turned to go been is made and duplicated.

It it has. such an application" Dr. Callahan." just as much slowly
handed over the draft Mr. Saddle, I wish you all the best in your of
this case. call on me if there is and skill. You have for come a
retentive way to be able to write of prosecution in which the Patent
Examiner It was seven months with before I got the first Office Action
in with the Case. a most remarkable job, and bespeaks of it ingenuity,
faith has all the properties of the and application says my head and
walked primal out to call on me." I stood up have to make I
smiled and bobbed just part of the game, I suppose, somewhat like a
in it as I have" Mr. looked at crab Susan put the case in final form
that had nothing to do with my application. kind of was me, and
smiled, and resourcefulness, We sent the papers to California for
Callahan's signature, then we filed the case, and things back to normal
with me. It was a great relief not to the strain on me night and day.
That's the trouble with an important case. You live with whatever
I read the first few paragraphs and they were normal.

They to and rejected the Case wrong with it?"" Not that I am able to
see, wild Mr. Saddle. It is in makes rejections because that is what
he is supposed, Mr. Spardleton thrust the his hand out. I shook it
and said," Is anything it too.***** the usual manner by citing prior
patents I did n't know what to say, so much sense.
But the deskmen
command a temporary majority: for the short while they shall hold the
cards they have the right to call the game. And so -- since we must
bow to the storm -- let the one thing be labelled Sin, and the other
Salvation -- for a season: ourselves forgetting never that it is all a
matter of nomenclature. What we have now first to note is that this
original Waft from the Garden asserts itself most vigorously in the
Child. This it is that thrusts the small boy out under the naked
heavens, to enact a sorry and shivering Crusoe on an islet in the
duck-pond. This it is that sends the little girl footing it after the
gipsy's van, oblivious of lessons, puddings, the embrace maternal, the
paternal smack; hearing naught save the faint, far bugle-summons to
the pre-historic little savage that thrills and answers in the
tingling blood of her; seeing only a troop of dusky, dull-eyed guides
along that shining highway to the dim land east o' the sun and west o'
the moon: where freedom is, and you can wander and breathe, and at
night tame street lamps there are none -- only the hunter's fires, and
the eyes of lions, and the mysterious stars. "And I thought perhaps
you'd take this now." Then he brought out from his pocket at little
ruby ring which he had carried often in his pocket to the attorney's
house, thinking that perhaps then might come the happy hour in
which he could get her to accept it.
But the hour had never come as yet, and the ring had remained in the
little drawer beneath his looking-glass. It need hardly be said
that she now accepted the gift.

CHAPTER XXVI
Conclusion

The Senator for Mickewa, whose name we have taken for a book which
might perhaps have been better called "The Chronicle of a Winter
at Dillsborough"--did not stay long in London after the unfortunate
close of his lecture. He was a man not very pervious to criticism,
nor afraid of it, but he did not like the treatment he had received
at St.He is back in his wonted corner now: quite cured,
apparently, and tractable. And yet -- let the sun shine too wantonly
in Throgmorton Street, let an errant zephyr, quick with the warm
South, fan but his cheek too wooingly on his way to the station; and
will he not once more snap his chain and away? Of the other participants
in the Gluck-Piccinni feud there is not much to say.

Sacchini was a man of notoriously luxurious and voluptuous life, but I
do not find that he married. Salieri--whom Gluck assisted in the most
generous manner, even to the extent of having one of
Salieri's operas produced under his own name, and declaring the true
author when it was a success--was married, and had many daughters, who
lavished upon him much affection. Méhul was befriended by a Doctor
Gastoldi, and married a daughter of his benefactor.What
marvel that up yonder the Hunter smiles? When he knows that every one
in his ken, the tinker with the statesman, has caught his bugle blast
and gone forth on its irresistible appeal!

Not that they are so easily followed as of yore, those flying echoes
of the horn! No, thank you. I can sheathe my own sword. My arm has lost
its numbness. _Parbleu_, I should like to meet Bussy d'Amboise now."

And he strode away, leaving me standing by the cross.
I hesitated between returning to the inn, and resuming my exploration
of the streets.And what friendless
old beast comes limping down the dreary lane? I reached over and tried
tearing one of the sheets I had passed out to the others. It tore
into quarters as easily as it had torn into halves.
That finished me. I leaned back and looked around at the silent group
and wondered what Mr. Spardleton would have said at a time like that.
I started to smile and discovered that my original smile was still
frozen on my face. I stood up and began retrieving the torn papers;
they passed them back to me without saying anything.Your
English way of hunting it down with yelpings and hallooings -- well, I
may be out of date, but we wouldn't have stood that sort of thing on
Helicon.'' So he hobbles down the road. Good night, old fellow! Out of
date? Well, it may be so. And alas! the blame is ours.

But for the Hunter -- there he rises -- couchant no more. Nay, flung
full stretch on the blue, he blazes, he dominates, he appals! Will his
turn, then, really come at last? DIVISION OF PSYCHOLOGY OF THE INSTITUTE
OF EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH RESEARCH. SEE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.
TEACHERS COLLEGE. INSTITUTE DOAN, GILBERT, TEACHERS, COLLEGE, COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY. OF PSYCHOLOGICAL E. The principles of metallurgy
Wildly incredible it seems. And yet -- look up! Look
up and behold him confident, erect, majestic -- there on the threshold
of the sky!