That in the first place I had instructed Mr. Poole to mount a guard of
two men every evening at sunset, who were to remain on duty until
sun-rise; that I expected the utmost vigilance from this guard, and that
as the safety of the camp would depend on their attention, I should
punish any neglect with the utmost severity. I then adverted to the
natives, and interdicted all intercourse with them, excepting with my
permission. That as I attributed many of the acts of violence that had
been committed on the river to this irritating source, so I would strike
the name of any man who should disobey my orders in this respect off the
strength of the party from that moment, and prevent his receiving a
farthing of pay; or whoever I should discover encouraging any of the
natives, but more particularly the native women, to the camp. I next drew
the attention of the men to themselves, and pointed out to them the ill
effects of discord, expressing my hope that they would be cheerful and
ready to assist one another, and that harmony would exist in the camp;
that I expected the most ready obedience from all to their superiors; and
that, in such case, they would on their part always find me alive to
their comforts, and to their interests. I then confirmed Mr. Piesse in
his post as store-keeper; gave to Flood the general superintendence of
the stock; to Morgan the charge of the horses, and to each bullock-driver
the charge of his own particular team. To Brock I committed the sheep,
with Kirby and Sullivan to assist, and to Davenport and Cowley (Joseph)
the charge of the officers' tents. I then said, that as they might now be
said to commence a journey, from which none of them could tell who would
be permitted to return, it was a duty they owed themselves to ask the
blessing and protection of that Power which alone could conduct them in
safety through it; and having read a few appropriate prayers to the men
as they stood uncovered before me, I dismissed them, and told Mr. Poole
he might move off as soon as he pleased. The scene was at once changed.
The silence which had prevailed was broken by the cracks of whips, and
the loud voices of the bullock-drivers. The teams descended one after the
other from the bank on which they had been drawn up, and filed past
myself and Mr. Eyre, who stood near me, in the most regular order. The
long line reached almost across the Moorundi flat, and looked extremely
well. I watched it with an anxiety that made me forgetful of everything
else, and I naturally turned my thoughts to the future How many of those
who had just passed me so full of hope, and in such exuberant spirits,
would be permitted to return to their homes? Should I, their leader, be
one of those destined to remain in the desert, or should I be more
fortunate in treading it than the persevering and adventurous officer
whose guest I was, and who shrank from the task I had undertaken. My eyes
followed the party as it ascended the gully on the opposite side of the
flat, and turned northwards, the two officers leading, until the whole
were lost to my view in the low scrub into which it entered. I was
unconscious of what was passing around me, but when I turned to address
my companions, I found that I was alone. Mr. Eyre, and the other
gentlemen who had been present, had left me to my meditations.

In the afternoon Kusick, one of the mounted police, arrived with
despatches from the Governor, and letters from my family. He had met
Flood at Gawler Town, whose return, therefore, we might reasonably expect
on the Friday.

Amongst the first purchases that had been made was a horse for the
service of the expedition, which had not very long before been brought in
from Lake Victoria, Nadbuck's location, distant nearly 200 miles from
Adelaide, where he had been running wild for some time. This horse was
put into the government paddock at Adelaide when bought, but he took the
fence some time during the night and disappeared, nor could he be traced
anywhere. Luckily, however, Kusick had passed the horses belonging to the
settlers at Moorundi, feeding at the edge of the scrub upon the cliffs,
and amongst them had recognised this animal, which had thus got more than
90 miles back to his old haunt. He had, however, fallen into a trap, from
which I took care he should not again escape; but we had some difficulty
in running him in and securing him.

Prior to the departure of the expedition from Adelaide, a considerable
quantity of rain had fallen there. Since our arrival at Moorundi also we
could see heavy rain on the hills, although no shower fell in the valley
of the Murray. Kusick informed us that he had been in constant rain, and
it was evident, from the dense and heavy clouds hanging upon them, that
it was still pouring in torrents on the ranges. We feared, therefore, and
it eventually proved to be the case, that Flood would not be able to
cross the Gawler on his return to us. He was, in fact, detained a day in
consequence of the swollen state of that little river, but swam his horse
over on the following day, at considerable risk both to himself and his
animal. He did not, in consequence, reach us until Saturday. In
anticipation, however, of his return on that day, we had sent Kenny, the
policeman stationed at Moorundi who was to accompany Mr. Eyre, up the
river in advance of us at noon, with Tampawang, the black boy I intended
taking with me, and had everything in readiness to follow them, as soon
as Flood should arrive. He did not, however, reach Moorundi until 5 p.m.
It took me some little time to reply to the communications he had
brought, but at seven we mounted our horses, and leaving Flood to rest
himself, and to exchange his wearied animal for the one we had recovered,
with Tenbury in front, left the settlement. The night was cold and
frosty, but the moon shone clear in a cloudless sky, so that we were
enabled to ride along the cliffs, from which we descended to one of the
river flats at 1 a.m. and, making a roaring fire, composed ourselves to
rest.

It may here be necessary, before I enter on any detail of the proceedings
of the expedition, to explain the general nature of my instructions, the
object of the expedition, and the reasons why, in some measure, contrary
to the opinion of the Secretary of State, I preferred trying the interior
by the line of the Darling, rather than by a direct northerly route from
Mount Arden.

As the reader will have understood, I wrote, in the year 1843, to Lord
Stanley, the then colonial minister, volunteering my services to conduct
an expedition into Central Australia. It appeared to his Lordship as well
as to Sir John Barrow, to whom Lord Stanley referred my report, that the
plan I had proposed was too extensive, and it was therefore determined to
adopt a more modified one, and to limit the resources of the expedition
and the objects it was to keep in view, to a certain time, and to the
investigation of certain facts. After expressing his opinion as to the
magnitude of the undertaking I had contemplated, "There is, however,"
says Sir J. Barrow, in a minute to the Secretary of State, "a portion of
the continent of Australia, to which he (Captain Sturt) adverts, that may
be accomplished, and in a reasonable time and at a moderate expense.

"He says, if a line be drawn from lat. 29 degrees 30 minutes and long.
146 degrees, N.W., and another from Mount Arden due north, they will meet
a little to the northward of the tropic, and there, I will be bound to
say, a fine country will be discovered. On what data he pledges himself
to the discovery of this fine country is not stated. It may, however, be
advisable to allow Mr. Sturt to realize the state of this fine country.

"This, however, is not to be done by pursuing the line of the Darling to
the latitude of Moreton Bay, which would lead him not far from the
eastern coast, where there is nothing of interest to be discovered, nor
does it appear advisable to pursue the Darling to the point to which he
and Major Mitchell have already been, for this reason. His preparations
will, no doubt, be made at Adelaide; from thence to the point in question
is about 600 miles, and from this point to the fine country, a little
beyond the tropic, is 700 miles, which together make a journey of 1300
miles. Now a line directly north from Adelaide, through Mount Arden, to
the point where it crosses the former in the fine country, is only 800
miles, making a saving, therefore, of 500 miles, which is of no little
importance in such a country as Australia.

"But Mr. Sturt assigns reasons for supposing that a range of mountains
will be found about the 29th parallel of latitude, and Mr. Eyre, whilst
exploring the Lake he discovered to the northward of the Gulf of St.
Vincent, Adelaide, notices mountains to the N.E., in about the latitude
of 28 degrees. Supposing, then, a range of mountains to exist about that
parallel, their direction will probably be found to run from N.E. to
S.W., which is that generally of the river Darling and its branches; and
in this case it may reasonably be concluded that these mountains form the
division of the waters, and that all the branches of the several rivers
(some of them of considerable magnitude) which have been known to fall
into the bays and gulfs on the W. and N.W. coasts, between the parallels
of 14 degrees and 21 degrees, have their sources on the northern side of
this range of mountains; but, even if no such range exists, it is pretty
evident, from what we know of the southern rivers, adjuncts chiefly of
the Darling, that somewhere about the latitudes of 28 degrees or 29
degrees the surface rises to a sufficient height to cause a division of
the waters, those on the northern side taking a northerly direction, and
those on the southern side a southerly one.

"To ascertain this point is worthy of a practical experiment in a
geographical point of view, as the knowledge of the direction that
mountains and rivers take, the bones and blood vessels of bodies
terrestrial give us at least a picture of the body of that skeleton. To
these Mr. Sturt will no doubt direct his particular attention, as
constituting the main object of such an expedition, and these, with the
great features of the country, its principal productions in the animal
and vegetable part of the creation, the state and condition of the
original inhabitants, will render a great service to the geography of the
southern part of Australia."

On this memorandum the Secretary of State observes, in a private letter
to Captain Grey, that came to hand before the receipt of Lord Stanley's
public despatch:--

"In considering Sir John Barrow's memorandum, enclosed in my public
despatch, you will see that a strong opinion is expressed against
ascending the Darling in the first instance, and in favour of making a
direct northerly course from Adelaide to Mount Arden. I do not wish this
to be taken as an absolute injunction, because I am aware that there may
be local causes why the apparently circuitous route may after all be the
easiest for the transport of provisions, and may really facilitate the
objects of the expedition. In like manner I do not wish to be understood
as absolutely prohibiting a return by Moreton Bay, extensive as that
deviation would be, if it should turn out that the exploration of the
mountain chain led the party so far to the eastward as to be able to
reach that point by a route previously known to Captain Sturt or to Major
Mitchell, more easily than they could return on their steps down the
Darling. What Captain Sturt will understand as absolutely prohibited, is
any attempt to conduct his party through the tropical regions to the
northward, so as to reach the mouths of any of the great rivers. The
present expedition will be limited in its object, to ascertaining the
existence and the character of a supposed chain of hills, or a succession
of separate hills, trending down from N.E. to S.W., and forming a great
natural division of the continent; to examining what rivers take their
source in those mountains, and what appears to be their course; to the
general lie of the country to the N.W. of the supposed chain; and to the
character of the soil and forests, as far as can be ascertained by such
an investigation as shall not draw the party away from their resources,
and shall make the south the constant base of their operations."

I presume, from the tenor of Sir John Barrow's memorandum, that he was
not fully aware of the insurmountable difficulties the course he
recommends presented. Valuing his judgment as I did on such an occasion,
and anxious as I was to act on the suggestions of the Secretary of State,
the strongest grounds could alone have made me pursue a course different
to that which had been recommended to me. Certainly the fear of any
ordinary difficulty would not have influenced me to reject the line
pointed out, but I felt satisfied that if Lord Stanley and Sir John
Barrow could be made aware of the nature of the country to the north of
Mount Arden, and the reasons why I considered it would be more
advantageous to take the line of the Darling, they would have concurred
in opinion with me. I would myself much rather have taken the line by
Mount Arden, since it would have been a greater novelty, and I would have
precluded the chance of any collision with the natives of the Darling,
more especially at that point to which I proposed to go, and at which Sir
Thomas Mitchell had had a rupture with them in 1836. The journeys of Mr.
Eyre had, however, proved the impracticability of a direct northerly
course from Mount Arden. Such a course would have led me into the
horseshoe of Lake Torrens; and although I might have passed to the
westward of it, I could hope for no advantage in a country such as that
which lies to the north of the Gawler Range. On the other hand, the
Surveyor-General of South Australia had attempted a descent into the
interior from the eastward, and had encountered great difficulties from
the want of water. Local inquiry and experience both went to prove the
little likelihood of that indispensable element being found to the north
of Spencer's Gulf. It appeared to me also that Sir John Barrow had
mistaken the point on the Darling to which I proposed going. It was not,
as he seems to have conjectured, to any point to which I had previously
been, but to an intermediate one. It is very true that if I had
contemplated pushing up the Darling to Fort Bourke, the distance would
have been 600 miles, and that, too, in a direction contrary to the one in
which I was instructed to proceed; but to Laidley's Ponds, in lat. 32
degrees 26 minutes 0 seconds S. and long. 142 degrees 30 minutes W., (the
point to which I proposed to go) the distance would have been a little
more than 300 miles. It was from this point that Sir Thomas Mitchell
retreated after his rupture with the natives in 1836; because, as he
himself informs us, he just then ascertained that a small stream joined
the Darling from the westward a little below his camp, and he likewise
saw hills in the same direction.

In consequence of the inhospitable character of the country to the north,
I had turned my attention to the above locality, and had been assured by
the natives, both of the Murray and the Darling, that the Williorara
(Laidley's Ponds) was a hill stream, that it came far from the N.W., that
it had large fish in it, and that its banks were grassy. Wonderingly she
let her eyes follow his, and once more it was with difficulty that she
suppressed an excited gasp.

There, across the room, calmly sipping some coffee, was the handsome
young man from the next apartment--the man whom she had felt sure,
or at least almost sure, was a murderer, about whom she had been wondering
all day long, picturing him as a hunted criminal fleeing from the
law.
Chatting interestedly with him was another man, a young man in the uniform
of a lieutenant in the navy.

What did it all mean? Why was the black-mustached man
watching them so intently? Her eyes turned back to him. He was still
sitting there, leaning forward a little, his brows in a pucker of
concentration, his eyes still fixed on the pair opposite. It looked
almost as if he was trying to read their lips and tell what they were
talking about.

Jane thrilled with excitement. The black-mustached man, she decided,
must be a detective. She recalled that he had said to her it was
because she lived at the address she did that she was available for the
mission for which he wanted her. Did he, she wondered, know about the
mysterious death in the street outside their apartment house? Was that
the reason he was spying on her neighbor? But what could be his motive in
seeking to involve her in the matter?

Unable to find satisfactory answers to her questions she gave herself up
interestedly to studying the faces of the two young men across the
room.
Neither of them, she decided, could be much more than thirty. The face
that only a few hours before she had seen utterly convulsed with bitter
hate, now placid and smiling, was really an attractive one, not in the
least like a murderer's. Frank, alert blue eyes looked out from
under an intellectual forehead. A small military mustache lent
emphasis to a clean-shaven, forceful jaw. His flaxen hair was neatly
trimmed. His linen and clothing were immaculate, and the hand that
curved around his cup had long, tapering, well-manicured fingers. The
cut of his clothing, his manners, everything about him seemed American,
yet there was an indefinable something in his appearance that suggested
foreign birth or parentage, probably either Swedish or German. The
man with him was smaller and slighter. Despite the air of importance
his uniform gave him, it was palpable that he was the less forceful of
the two, his handsome face, it seemed to Jane, betraying weakness of
character and a fondness for the good things of life.

"Come, daughter," said Mrs. Strong, rising, "we must be going."
So intent was Jane on her study of the two men that her mother had to
speak twice to her.

"Yes, mother," she answered obediently, rising hastily as the hint of
annoyance in her mother's repeated remark brought her to a realization
of having been addressed.

Letting her mother and Mrs. Starrett precede her in the doorway she paused
to look back at the scene that had interested her so strongly.
What _could_ it mean? What was going on? How was she involved in it?

Her glance moved quickly from the watcher to the watched. The blond young
man caught her eye. Amazedly, it seemed to her, he stopped right in the
middle of what he was saying and sat there, his gaze fixed full on her.
She let her eyes fall, abashed, and turned to hasten after her mother, but
not so quickly did she turn but that she observed he had hastily
seized his cup and appeared to be drinking to her, not so much
impudently as admiringly.

CHAPTER III
"MR. FLECK"
Twice after the elevator had deposited her on the floor Jane had approached
the door of Room 708, and twice she had walked timorously past it to the
end of the hall, trying to muster up courage to enter. A visit to a man's
office in the business district was a novelty for her.
On the few previous excursions of the sort she had made she always had
been accompanied by one of her parents. She found herself wishing now
that she had taken her father into her confidence and had asked
him to go with her. Making shopping her excuse she had come down-town
with Mr.
Strong but had gotten off at Astor Place, and waited over for another
train.

In her hand she held the card given to her by the black-mustached man the
afternoon before. As she studied it now her curiosity came to the
rescue of her fast-oozing courage. She must find out what it all meant,
whatever the risk or peril that might confront her. Boldly she returned
to Room 708 and opened the door. An office boy seated at a desk looked up
inquiringly.

"Is Mr. Fleck in?" she inquired timidly.

"Who wishes to see him?"
"Just say there's a lady wishes to speak to him," she faltered, hesitating
to give her name.

"Are you Miss Strong?" asked the boy abruptly, "because if you are,
he's expecting you."
She nodded, and the boy, jumping up, escorted her into an inner room. As
she entered nervously an alert-looking man, with graying hair and
mustache, rose courteously to greet her. In the quick glance she gave
at her surroundings she was conscious only of the great mahogany desk at
which he sat and behind it some filing cabinets and a huge safe,
the outer doors of which stood open.

"Sit down, won't you, Miss Strong," he said, placing a chair for her.

His manner and his cultured tone, everything about him, reassured
her at once.

They conveyed to her that he was what she would have termed "a
gentleman," and with a little sigh of relief she seated herself.

"I'm afraid," said Mr. Fleck, smiling, "that Carter's method of approaching
you must have alarmed you."
"Carter--Oh, the black-mustached man."

"Yes, that describes him. You see, he did not wish to act definitely
without consulting his chief, yet the unexpected opportunity seemed
far too vital not to be utilized. He did not explain, did he, what it
was we wanted of you?"
"Indeed he didn't," said Jane, now wholly herself. "He was most
mysterious about it."
Mr. Fleck smiled amusedly.

"Carter has been an agent so long that being mysterious is second nature
to him."
"An agent--I don't understand."
"A Department agent," explained Mr. Fleck, adding, "engaged in secret
service work for the government."
"Oh!"
Jane's exclamation was not so much of surprise as of delighted realization,
and the satisfaction expressed in her face was by no means lost on Mr.
Fleck.

"Would you object," he asked, moving his chair a little closer to hers,
"if, before I explain why you are here, I ask you a few questions--very
personal questions?"
"Certainly not," said Jane.

"You are American-born, of course?"
"Oh, yes."
"And your parents?"
"American for ten or twelve generations."
"How long have you lived in that apartment house on Riverside Drive?"

"For about five years."
"Do you know any of the other tenants in the house?"
"No--that is, none personally."
"Is your time fully occupied?"
"No, indeed it isn't, I've nothing to do at all, nothing except to try
to amuse myself."
"Good," said Mr. Fleck. "Now would you be willing to help in some secret
work for the United States Government, some work of the very highest
importance?"
"Would I?" cried Jane, her eyes shining. "Gladly! Just try me."
"Don't answer too quickly," warned Mr. Fleck. "Remember, it will be real
work, serious work, not always pleasant, sometimes possibly a little
perilous. Remember, too, it must be done with absolute secrecy. You
must not let even your parents know that you are working with us. You
must pledge yourself to breathe no word of what you are doing or are asked
to do to a living soul. Everything that we may tell you is to be buried
forever from everybody. No one is to be trusted. The minute one other
person knows your secret it will no longer be a secret. Can we
depend upon you?"
"You may absolutely depend on me," said Jane slowly and soberly. "I
give you my word. I have been eager for ever so long to do something
to help, to really help. My father is doing all he can to aid the
government.
He's on the Shipping Board."
Mr. Fleck nodded. Evidently he was aware of it already.

"My brother, my only brother," Jane continued, with a little catch in
her throat, "is Over There--somewhere Over There--fighting for his
government. If there is anything I can do to help the country he is
fighting for, the country he may die for, I pledge you I will do it
gladly with my heart, my soul, my body--everything."
"Thank you," said Mr. Fleck softly, taking her hand. "I felt sure you were
that sort of a girl. Now listen." He moved his chair still closer to
hers, and his voice became almost a whisper.

"In the apartment next to you there live two men,--Otto Hoff and his nephew,
Fred. They have an old German servant, but we can leave her out of it
for the present. The old man is a lace importer. Apparently they
are both above suspicion, yet--" 
He stopped abruptly.

"You think they are spies--spies for Germany," questioned Jane
excitedly. "They're Germans, of course?"
"Otto Hoff is German-born, but he has been here for twenty years.
Several years ago he took out papers and became an American citizen."
"And the young man?"
Jane's tone was vibrant with interest. It must be the man she had seen
from her window whom they suspected most.

"He professes to be American-born."
"Oh," said the girl, rather disappointedly.

"But," continued Mr. Fleck, "there's something queer about it all. He
arrived in this country only three days before we went into the war. He
had a certificate, properly endorsed, giving his birthplace as Cincinnati.
He arrived on a Scandinavian ship. He speaks German as well and as
fluently as he speaks English, both without accent."
"Perhaps he was educated abroad," suggested Jane, rather amazed at finding
herself seeking to defend him.

"He must have been," said Fleck, "yet I find it hard to believe that
Germany at this time is letting any young German-American come
home if he's soldier material--and young Hoff's appearance certainly
suggests military training."

"It surely does."
"Unless," continued Fleck, "there was some special object in sending
him here."
"You think," said Jane slowly, "they sent him here--to this country--as
a spy."
"In our business we dare not think. We cannot merely conjecture. We
must prove," said Mr. Fleck. "Maybe the Hoffs are O.K. I do not know.
Nobody knows yet. Let me tell you some of the circumstances. This much
we do know. Von Bernstorff is gone. Von Papen is gone. Scores of active
German sympathizers and propagandists have been rounded up and interned
or imprisoned, yet, in spite of all we have done, their work goes on. A
vast secret organization, well supplied with funds, is constantly at
work in this country, trying to cripple our armies, trying to destroy our
munition plants, trying to corrupt our citizens, trying to disrupt our
Congress. Every move the United States makes is watched. As you probably
know, every day now large numbers of American troops are embarking in
transports in the Hudson."
"Yes," said Jane, "you can see them from our windows."

"Now then," said Mr. Fleck, lowering his voice impressively, "here is the
fact. Some one somewhere on Riverside Drive is keeping close and
constant tab on the warships and transports there in the river. We have
managed recently to intercept and decipher some code messages. These
messages told not only when the transports sailed but how many troops
were on each and how strong their convoy was. Where these messages
originate we have not yet learned. We are practically certain that some
one in our own navy, some black-hearted traitor wearing an officer's
uniform--perhaps several of them--is in communication with some one on
shore, betraying our government's most vital secrets."
"I can't believe it," cried Jane, "our own American officers traitors!"

"Undoubtedly some of them are," said Mr. Fleck regretfully. "The German
efficiency, for years looking forward to this war, carefully built up
a far-reaching spy system. Years ago, long before the war was thought
of--or at least before we in this country thought of it--many secret
agents of Wilhelmstrasse were deliberately planted here. Many of them
have been residents here for years, masking their real occupation by
engaging in business, utilizing their time as they waited for the war to
come by gathering for Germany all of our trade and commercial secrets.
Some of these spies have even become naturalized, and they and their
sons pass for good American citizens. In some cases they have even
Americanized their names. Insidiously and persistently they have worked
their way into places, sometimes into high places in our chemical
plants, our steel factories, yes, even into high places in our army
and navy and into governmental positions where they can gather
information first-hand.

In no other country has it been so easy for them, because of this one
fact: so large a proportion of Uncle Sam's population is of German
birth or parentage. Why here in New York City alone there are more
than three-quarters of a million persons, either German-born themselves
or born of German parents. Many of them, the vast majority of them,
probably, are loyal to America, but think how the plenitude of German
names makes it easy for spies to get into our army and navy.
Besides that, they employ evil men of other nationalities as spies, the
criminal riffraff,--Danes, Swedes, Spaniards, Italians, Swiss and even
South Americans,--all of whom are free to go and come as they choose in
this country."
"I never realized before," said Jane, "how many Germans there were all about
us."
"In an effort to locate this particular band of naval spies," continued
Mr. Fleck, "we have combed the apartment houses and residences along the
Drive. Three places in particular are under suspicion. The apartment of
the Hoffs is one of these places. They moved in there thirty days after
this country went to war.

Ordinarily, where the occupants of an apartment are under suspicion, we
take the superintendent of the building partly into our confidence and
plant operatives in the house, or else we hire an apartment in the same
building. In this case neither course is practicable. The superintendent
of your building is a German-American and we dare not trust him, and
there is no vacant apartment that we can rent. We have been watching the
Hoffs from the outside as best we could. Carter, who has had charge of
the shadowing, accidentally happened to overhear you give your address.
He had procured a list of the tenants and remembered the location of
your apartment.

It struck him at once that you would be a valuable ally if you would
consent to work with us."
"What is it that you wish me to do?" asked Jane wonderingly. "You'll have
to tell me how to go about it."
"All a good detective needs," said Mr. Fleck, "is, let us say, three
things--observation, addition and common sense. You must observe
everything closely, be able to put two and two together and use your
common sense. Do you know the Hoffs by sight?"
"Only by sight."
"They live in the next apartment on your floor, do they not?"
"Yes. Young Mr. Hoff's bedroom is the room next to mine."
"Good," cried Mr. Fleck. "Can you hear anything from the next
apartment, any conversations?"
"No, only muffled sounds."
"The windows overlook the river and the transports, do they not?"
"Yes, the windows of Mr. Hoff's bedroom and the room next. Their apartment
is a duplicate of ours."
Mr. Fleck sprang up and crossed to the big safe. Opening an inner drawer
he took out a small metal disk and handed it to her. Jane looked at
it curiously. It bore no wording save the inscription "K-19."
"That," said Mr. Fleck, "is the only thing I can give you in the way of
credentials. Keep it somewhere safely concealed about your clothing
and never exhibit it except in case of extreme necessity. If ever you
are in peril any police officer will recognize it at once and will
promptly give you all the assistance possible."
"But," protested the girl, "I don't know yet what I am to do."
"For the present I am trusting to your resourcefulness to make
opportunities to help us. We are watching the house closely from
the outside. Carter will identify you to the other operatives. Once
a day I will expect you to call me up, not from your home but from
a public 'phone. Here is my number. Say 'this is Miss Jones speaking,'
and I will know who it is. I can communicate with you by note without
arousing suspicion?" 
"Oh, yes, certainly."
"If at any time I have to call you on the 'phone, or if any of the
other operatives want to communicate with you the password will be
'I am speaking for Miss Jones.'"
"Isn't that exciting--a secret password," cried Jane enthusiastically.
"If you can manage it without compromising yourself too seriously,
I wish you would make the young man's acquaintance."
"That will be simple," said Jane, remembering the admiring way in
which he had raised his cup in her direction as she left the
hotel.
"If possible find out who their visitors are in the apartment and
keep your eyes open for any sort of signalling to the transports.
If ever there is an opportunity to get hold of notes or mail delivered
to either of them, don't hesitate to steam it open and copy it."
"Must I?" said Jane. "That hardly seems right or fair."
"Of course it's right," cried Mr. Fleck warmly. "Think of the lives
of our soldiers that are at stake. The devilish ingenuity of these
German spies must be thwarted at all costs. They seem to be able
to discover every detail of our plans. Only two days ago one of our
transports was thoroughly inspected from stem to stern. Two hours
later twenty-six hundred soldiers were put aboard her on their way
to France. Just by accident, as they were about to sail, a time-bomb
was discovered in the coal bunkers, a bomb that would have sent
them all to kingdom come." 
"How terrible!"
"Somebody aboard is a traitor. Somebody knew when that inspection
was made. Somebody put that bomb in place afterward. That shows you
the kind of enemies we are fighting."
Jane shuddered. She was thinking of the sailing of another transport,
the one that had carried her brother to France.
"Anything seems right after that," she said simply.
"Yes," said Mr. Fleck, "there is only one effective way to fight
those spying devils. We must stop at nothing. They stop at nothing--not
even murder--to gain their ends."
"I know that," said Jane hastily. "I saw something myself you ought
to know about."
As briefly as she could she described the scene she had witnessed
in the early morning hours from her bedroom window, the man following
the younger Hoff, Hoff's discovery and pursuit of him around the
corner and of his return alone.
"And in the morning," she concluded, "they found a man's body in
the side street. He had a bullet through his heart. There was a
revolver in his hand. The newspapers said that the police and the
coroner were satisfied that it was a suicide. I caught a glimpse
of Mr. Hoff's face when he came back from around that corner. It
was all convulsed with hate, the most terrible expression I ever
saw. I'm almost certain he murdered that man. I'm sure it wasn't a
suicide."
"I'm sure, too, that it was no suicide," said Mr. Fleck gravely.
"The man who was found there was one of my men, K-19, the man whose
badge I have just given you. He had been detailed to shadow the
Hoffs." 

CHAPTER IV 
THE CLUE IN THE BOOK
Subway passengers sitting opposite Jane Strong as she rode up-town
from Mr. Fleck's office, if they observed her at all--and most of
them did--saw only a slim, good-looking young girl, dressed in a
chic tailormade suit, crowned with a dashing Paris hat tilted at
the proper angle to display best the sheen of her black, black hair,
which after the prevailing fashion was pulled forward becomingly
over her ears.
Outwardly Jane was unchanged, but within her nerves were all atingle
at the thought of the tremendous and fascinating responsibility so
unexpectedly thrust upon her. Her mind, too, was aflame with patriotic
ardor, but coupled with these new sensations was a persisting sense
of dread, an intangible, unforgettable feeling of horror that kept
cropping up every time her fingers touched the little metal disk
in her purse.
The man who had carried it yesterday, the other "K-19" who had
undertaken to shadow those people next door, now lay dead with a
bullet through his heart. Was there, she wondered, a similar peril
confronting her? Would her life be in danger, too? Was that the
reason Mr.There was not a single
break in its sombre hue, nor was there the slightest rise on the visible
horizon; both to the eastward and westward we caught glimpses of the
Murray glittering amidst the dark foliage beneath us, but it made no
change in the character of the landscape.

We kept on the open ground, just cutting the heads of the gullies, and
advanced eight miles before we found a convenient spot at which to drive
the cattle down to water, and feed in the flats below, and into which it
appeared impracticable to get our drays. I halted, therefore, on the
crest of the hills, and sent Flood and three other men to watch the
animals, and to head them back if they attempted to wander. In the
afternoon we went down to the river, and on crossing the flat came upon
the dray tracks of some overland party, the leader of which had taken his
drays down the hills, notwithstanding the apparent difficulty of the
attempt. But what is there of daring or enterprise that these bold and
high-spirited adventurers will shrink from?

I had hoped that the more elevated ground we here occupied, would have
been warmer than the flats on which we had hitherto pitched our tents,
but in this I was disappointed. The night was just as cold as if we had
been in the valley of the Murray. At sunrise the thermometer stood at 27
degrees, and we had thick ice in our pails.

At five miles from this place, having left the river about a mile to our
right, we arrived at the termination of this line of hills. They
gradually fell away to the eastward and disappeared; nor does the fossil
formation extend higher up the Murray. It here commences or terminates,
as the traveller is proceeding up or down the stream. A meridian altitude
on the hill just before we descended, placed it in lat. 34 degrees 9
minutes 56 seconds, so that we had still been going gradually to the
south. At the termination of the hills, the Murray forms an angle in
turning sharp round to that point, and after an extensive sweep comes up
again, so as to form an opposite angle; the distance between the two
being 14 or 15 miles, and from the ground on which we stood the head of
Lake Bonney bore E. 5 degrees S., distant six miles.

On descending from these hills we fell into the overland road, but were
soon turned from it by reason of the floods, and obliged to travel along
a sandy ridge, forming the left bank of a lagoon, running parallel to the
river, into which the waters were fast flowing; but finding a favourable
place to cross, at a mile distant, we availed ourselves of it, and
encamped on the river side. In the afternoon we had heavy rain from the
west. During it, Mr. James Hawker, a resident at Moorundi, joined us, and
took shelter in our tents. He had, indeed, kept pace with us all the way
from the settlement in his boat, and supplied us with wild fowl on
several occasions.

We had showers during the night, but the morning, though cloudy, did not
prevent our moving on to Lake Bonney, distant, according to our
calculation, between four and five miles. To determine this correctly,
however, I ordered Mr. Poole to run the chain from the river to the lake.
We had seen few or no natives as yet; but expecting to find a large party
of them assembled at Lake Bonney, Mr. Eyre went before us with Kenny and
Tenbury, leaving Nadbuck and Camboli to shew us the most direct line to
the mouth of the little channel which connects Lake Bonney with the
Murray, at which I purposed halting. The greater part of our way was
through deep sandy cypress brushes, so that the cattle had a heavy pull
of it. We reached our destination at 1 p.m., where we found Mr. Eyre,
with eight or nine natives, all, who were then in the neighbourhood.

The back-water of the Murray was fast flowing into the lake, which
already presented a broad expanse of water to the eye. It was covered
with wild fowl of various kinds, and there were several patches of reeds
in which they were feeding.

As I purposed stopping for a day or two, to rest the bullocks, I directed
Mr. Poole to survey the lake, whilst I undertook to lay down the creek or
channel connecting it with the river, in which service I enlisted Mr.
Hawker, who had formerly been on the survey, and whose name I gave to the
creek on the completion of our work.

Lake Bonney is a shallow sandy basin, which is annually filled by the
Murray; and as it rises, so, to a certain extent, it falls with the
river, until at length, being left very shallow, it is soon dried up. The
Hawker being too small to discharge the water equally with the fall of
the river, has a current in it after the river has lowered considerably,
for which reason I thought, when I passed it on my second expedition,
that it had been a tributary; but such is not the case--Lake Bonney
receiving no water save from the Murray. To the south of it, or next the
river, the ground is low, grassy, and wooded; but on every other side the
lake is confined by a low sand hill, of about fifteen feet in height,
behind which there is a barren flat covered with salsolaceous plants, and
exactly resembling a dry sea marsh, if I may say so. The more distant
interior is alternate brush and plain, and exceedingly barren. The day
after we arrived, however, Tenbury, with the dogs, killed four large
kangaroos and as he saw many more, it is to be presumed that thereabouts
they are pretty numerous. The lake is ten miles in circumference.
Hawker's Creek, taking its windings, is nearly six in length. The
latitude of our camp was 34 degrees 13 minutes 42 seconds S.; its
longitude 140 degrees 26 minutes 16 seconds. On September 1st. the
thermometer, at 8 A. M. and at noon, stood at 48 degrees and 60 degrees
respectively; the barometer at 29.750, and the boiling point was 212
degrees nearly, thus indicating that we had risen but a few feet above
the level of the sea. We left Lake Bonney on the 3rd of September, and
crossing the bank of sand by which it is confined, traversed the flat
behind it for about three miles, when we ascended some feet, and entered
a low brush that continued for nearly nine miles, with occasional
openings in it to that angle of the river which is opposite to the one at
the end of the fossil formation.

Our camp at this place was on one of the prettiest spots on the Murray.
Our tents were pitched on some sloping ground, sheltered from the S.W.
wind. The feed was excellent, and the soil of better quality than usual.
We had a splendid view of the river, which here is very broad and flanked
on the right by a dark clay cliff, which is exceedingly picturesque. On
the opposite side of the stream there is an extensive, well wooded and
grassy flat of beautiful and park-like appearance. Altogether it was a
cheerful and pleasant locality, and we were sorry to leave it so soon.
Our observations placed us in lat. 34 degrees 11 minutes 12 seconds S.
and in long. 140 degrees 39 minutes 42 seconds E. From this point the
general course of the Murray is much more to the north than heretofore,
so that on leaving it we had more of northing in our course than anything
else. Some strange natives brought up our cattle for us, to whom I made
presents; but although so kindly disposed, they did not follow us.
Indeed, the natives generally, seemed to regard our progress with
suspicion, and could not imagine why we were going up the Darling with so
many drays and cattle. Our sheep had now become exceedingly tame and
tractable; they followed the party like dogs, and I therefore felt
satisfied that I had not done wrong in bringing them with me. We
travelled on the 4th, over harder and more open ground than usual, having
extensive polygonium flats to our right. There were belts of brush
however on the plains, the soil and productions of which were sandy and
salsolaceous. At 4 1/2 miles we struck a lagoon, and coming upon a creek
at 13 miles, we halted, although the feed was bad, as the cattle were
unable to get to the river flats in consequence of the flooded state of
the creek itself.

On the 5th we travelled through a country that consisted almost entirely
of scrub on the poorest soil. However, we were now approaching that part
of the river at which the flats (extensive enough) are intersected by
numerous creeks and lagoons, so that our approach to the Murray was
likely to be cut off altogether. At 3 1/2 miles we again struck the creek
on the banks of which we had slept, and as it was the point at which the
native path from Lake Bonney also strikes it, I halted to take a meridian
altitude, which placed it in 34 degrees 4 minutes 5 seconds S. We had
allowed our horses to go and feed with their bridles through the
stirrups, and were sitting on the ground when we heard a shot, and a
general alarm amongst them, insomuch that we had some difficulty in
quieting them, more especially Mr. Poole's horse. It was at length
discovered that one of that gentleman's pistols had accidentally gone off
in the holster, to the dismay of the poor animal. Fortunately no damage
was done.

After noon, we pushed on, and at a mile crossed a creek, where we found a
small tribe of scrub natives, one of whom had a child of unusual fatness:
its flesh really hung about it; a solitary instance of the kind as far as
I am aware. We then traversed good grassy plains for about two miles,
when we fell in with another small tribe on a second creek: our
introduction to which was more than ordinarily ceremonious. The natives
remained seated on the ground, with the women and children behind them,
and for a long time preserved that silence and reserve which is peculiar
to these people when meeting strangers; however, we soon became more
intimate, and several of them joined our train. Our friend Nadbuck was
very officious (not disagreeably so, however), on the occasion, and
shewed himself a most able tactician, since he paid more attention to the
fair than his own sex, and his explanation of our movements seemed to
have its due weight.

We soon passed from the grassy plains I have mentioned, to plains of
still greater extent, and still finer herbage. Nothing indeed could
exceed the luxuriance of the grass on these water meadows, for we found
on crossing that the floods were beginning to incroach upon them. These
were marked all over with cattle tracks, many of them so fresh that they
could only have been made the night before, but independently of these
there were others of older date. The immense number of these tracks led
me to inquire from the natives if there were any cattle in the
neighbourhood, when they informed me that there were numbers of wild
cattle in the brushes to the westward of the flats, and that they came
down at night to the river for water and food. The grass upon the plain
over which we were travelling was so inviting, that I determined to give
the horses and bullocks a good feed, and turning towards the river with
Mr. Eyre, I directed Mr. Poole and Mr. Browne to try the brushes with
Flood and Mack, for a wild bullock, whilst we arranged the camp. We
scarcely had time to do this, however, when Mr. Browne returned to inform
me that soon after gaining the brush they had fallen in with a herd of
about fifty cattle, out of which they had singled and shot a fine animal,
and that on his way back to the camp the dogs had killed a large
kangaroo. Upon this I sent Morgan with the cart to fetch in the quarters
of the animal, and desired the natives to go with him to benefit by what
might be left behind, and to feast on the kangaroo. The beast the party
had killed fully justified Mr. Browne's account of it, and its fine
condition proved the excellent nature of the pastures on which it had
fed. We had not killed many of the sheep, as I was anxious to preserve
them, since they had given us little or no trouble, so that I was led to
hope that by ordinary care they would prove a most valuable and important
stock.

We were here unable to approach the river, and therefore encamped near a
creek, the banks of which were barren enough; however, as we had stopped
for the benefit of the cattle it was of no consequence. But although on
this occasion they were absolutely up to their middles in the finest
grass, the bullocks were not satisfied, but with a spirit of
contradiction common to animals as well as men they separated into mobs
and wandered away; the difficulty of recovering them being the greater,
because of the numerous tracks of other cattle in every direction around
us. We recovered them, however, although too late to move that day, and
it is somewhat remarkable to record, that this was the only occasion on
which during this long journey we were delayed for so long a time by our
animals wandering. Had it not been for Tampawang, whose keen eye soon
detected the fresher tracks, we might have been detained for several
days.

As Mr. Browne had been on horseback the greater part of the day, I left
him in the camp with Mr. Poole, both having been after the cattle, and in
the afternoon walked out with Mr. Eyre, to try if we could get to the
river, but failed, for the creeks were full of water, and our approach to
it or to the nearer flats was entirely cut off. So intersected indeed was
this neighbourhood, that we got to a point at which five creeks joined.
The scene was a very pretty one, since they formed a sheet of water of
tolerable size shaded by large trees. The native name of this place was
"Chouraknarup," a name by no means so harmonious as the names of their
places generally are. We had not commenced any collection at this time,
there being nothing new either in the animals or plants, but I observed
that everything was much more forward on this part of the river than near
Lake Bonney, although there was no material difference between the two
places in point of latitude. A meridian altitude of the sun gave our
latitude 34 degrees 1 minutes 33 seconds S., and one of Altair 34 degrees
2 minutes 2 seconds S.

The night of the 6th Sept. was frosty and cold, and we had thick ice in
the buckets. We left our camp on a N. by E. course, at 8 o'clock on the
morning of the 7th, and at 4 miles struck the river, where its breadth
was considerable, and it looked exceedingly well. The flooded state of
the creeks however prevented our again approaching it for several days.
Shortly after leaving the river we turned more to the eastward, having
gained its most northern reach. About noon we fell in with a few natives,
who did not trouble themselves much about us, but we found that their
backwardness was rather the result of timidity at seeing such a party
than anything else. We traversed large and well-grassed flats almost all
day long, and ultimately encamped on the banks of a creek of some size,
opposite to our tents the floods had made an island, on which we put our
cattle for security during the night.

Mr. Eyre and I were again disappointed in an attempt to gain the banks of
the Murray, but we returned to the camp with a numerous retinue of men,
women, and children, who treated us to a corrobori at night. The several
descriptions which have been given by others of these scenes, might
render it unnecessary for me to give my account of such here; but as my
ideas of these ceremonies may differ from that of other travellers, I
shall trespass on the patience of my readers for a few moments to
describe them. However rude and savage a corrobori may appear to those to
whom they are new, they are, in truth, plays or rather dramas, which it
takes both time and practice to excel in. Distant tribes visiting any
other teach them their corrobori, and the natives think as much of them
as we should do of the finest play at Covent Garden. Although there is a
great sameness in these performances they nevertheless differ. There is
always a great bustle when a corrobori is to be performed, and the men
screw themselves up to the acting point, as our actors do by other means
than these poor creatures possess. On the present occasion there was not
time for excitement; our's was as it were a family corrobori, or private
theatricals, in which we were let into the secrets of what takes place
behind the scenes. A party of the Darling natives had lately visited the
Murray, and had taught our friends their corrobori, in which, however,
they were not perfect; and there was consequently a want of that
excitement which is exhibited when they have their lesson at their
fingers' ends, and are free to give impulse to those feelings, which are
the heart and soul of a corrobori.

We had some difficulty in persuading our friends to exhibit, and we owed
success rather to Mr. Eyre's influence than any anxiety on the part of
the natives themselves. However, at last we persuaded the men to go and
paint themselves, whilst the women prepared the ground. It was pitch
dark, and ranging themselves in a line near a large tree, they each lit a
small fire, and had a supply of dry leaves to give effect to the acting.
On their commencing their chanting, the men came forward, emerging from
the darkness into the obscure light shed by the yet uncherished fires,
like spectres. After some performance, at a given signal, a handful of
dry leaves was thrown on each fire, which instantly blazing up lighted
the whole scene, and shewed the dusky figures of the performers painted
and agitated with admirable effect, but the fires gradually lowering, all
were soon again left in obscurity.

But, as I have observed, for some reason or other the thing was not
carried on with spirit, and we soon retired from it; nevertheless, it is
a ceremony well worth seeing, and which in truth requires some little
nerve to witness for the first time.

We had now arrived at Camboli's haunt, and were introduced by him to his
wife and children, of whom he seemed very proud; but a more ugly partner,
or more ugly brats, a poor Benedict could not have been blessed with.
Whether it was that he wished to remain behind, for he had not been very
active on the road, or taken that interest in our proceedings which
Nadbuck had done; or that our praises of his wife and pickaninnies had
had any effect I know not, but he would not leave his family, and so
remained with them when we left on the following morning. The
neighbourhood of our camp was, however, one of great celebrity--since in
it some of the most remarkable and most tragical events had taken place.
It was near it that the volunteers who went out to rescue Mr. Inman's
sheep, which had been seized by the natives to the number of 4,000, were
driven back and forced to retreat; not, I would beg to be understood,
from want of spirit, but because they were fairly overpowered and caught
in a trap. The whole of the party, indeed, behaved with admirable
coolness, and one of them, Mr. Charles Hawker, as well as their leader,
Mr. Fidd, shewed a degree of moderation and forbearance on the occasion
that was highly to their credit. Here also was the Hornet's Nest, where
the natives offered battle to my gallant friend, Major O'Halloran, whose
instructions forbade his striking the first blow. I can fancy that his
warm blood was up at seeing himself defied by the self-confident natives;
but they were too wise to commence an attack, and the parties, therefore,
separated without coming to blows. Here, or near this spot also, the old
white-headed native, who used to attend the overland parties, was shot by
Miller, a discharged soldier, I am sorry to say, of my own regiment. This
old man had accompanied me for several days in my boat, when I went down
the Murray to the sea coast in 1830, and I had made him a present, which
he had preserved, and shewed to the first overland party that came down
the river, and thenceforward he became the guide of the parties that
followed along that line. He attended me when I came overland from
Sydney, in 1838, on which occasion he recognised me, and would sleep no
where but at my tent door. He was shot by Miller in cold blood, whilst
talking to one of the men of the party of which unfortunately he had the
charge; but retribution soon followed. Miller was shortly afterwards
severely wounded by the natives; and, having aneurism of the heart, was
cautioned by his medical attendant never to use violent exercise; but,
disregarding this, when he had nearly recovered, he went one day to visit
a friend at the gaol in which he ought to have been confined, and in
springing over a ditch near it, fell dead on the other side, and wholly
unprepared to appear before that tribunal, to which he will one day or
other be summoned, to answer for this and other similar crimes.

About a dozen natives followed us from our camp, on the morning of the
8th. We again struck the creek, on which we had rested, and which had
turned to our right at 2 1/2 miles on an east by south course, and
followed along its banks, until it again trended too much to the south.
We crossed alluvial flats of considerable extent, on which there was an
abundance of grass. Just at the point at which we turned from the creek,
we ascended a small sand hill, covered with the amaryllis, then
beautifully in flower. The latitude of this little hill, from which the
cliffs on the most northern reach of the Murray bore N. 170 degrees E.
distant four miles, was 33 degrees 57 minutes 11 seconds; so that the
Murray does not extend northwards beyond latitude 34 degrees 1 minutes or
thereabouts. We again struck the creek, the course of which had been
marked by gum-trees, at six miles, and were forced by it to the N.E., but
ultimately turned it and descended southwards to the river; but as we
were cut off from it we encamped on a lagoon of great length, backed by
hills of a yellow and white colour, the rock being a soft and friable
sandstone, slightly encrusted with salt. We had, shortly before we
halted, passed a salt lagoon in the centre of one of the grassy flats,
but such anomalies are not uncommon in the valley of the Murray. That
part of the river which I have described, from the point where we shot
the bullock to this lagoon, appeared to me admirably adapted for a cattle
station, and has since been occupied as such.

As I have observed, the lagoon on which we encamped was backed by hills
of 150 or 200 feet elevation, which were covered with thick brush wood.
The flat between us and these hills was unusually barren, and all the
trees at the side of the lagoon were dead. Whether this was owing to
there being salt in the ground or to some other cause, there was here but
little grass for the cattle to eat, so that, although they were watched,
twenty of them managed to crawl away, and we were consequently delayed
above an hour and a half after our usual hour of starting, and commenced
our day's journey wanting two of our complement, but we stumbled upon
them in passing through the brush, in which they were very comfortably
lying down. We travelled for about six miles through a miserable
undulating country of sand and scrub. At noon we were abreast of a little
sandy peak that was visible from our camp, and is a prominent feature
hereabouts. This peak Mr. Browne and I ascended, though very little to
our gratification, for the view from it was as usual over a sea of scrub
to whatever quarter we turned. The peak itself was nothing more than a
sandy eminence on which neither tree or shrub was growing, and the whole
locality was so much in unison with it, that we called it "Mount Misery."
After passing this hill, and forcing through some stunted brush, we
debouched on open plains and got once more on the overland road, which
was distinctly marked by a line of bright green grass, that was springing
up in the furrows the drays had left. This road took us to the edge of a
precipitous embankment, from which we overlooked the river flowing
beneath it. This embankment was 60 or 70 feet high, and presented a steep
wall to the river; for although the Murray had lost the fossil cliffs it
was still flanked by high level plains on both sides, and cliffs of 100
or 120 feet in height, composed of clay and sand, rose above the stream,
the faces of which presented the appearance of fretwork, so deeply and
delicately had they been grooved out by rains. The soil of this upper
table land was a bright red ferruginous clay and sand. The vegetation was
chiefly salsolaceous, but there was, notwithstanding, no want of grass
upon it, though the tufts were very far apart. If our cattle had fared
badly at our last camp, they had no reason to complain at this; for we
encamped on a beautifully green flat, about seven miles short of the
Rufus, and about eight from the nearest point of Lake Victoria. There
were now seventeen natives in our train, amongst whom was one of
remarkable character. This was "Pulcanti," who was engaged in, wounded
and taken prisoner at an affair on the Rufus, to which I shall again have
to allude.

Whilst the police were conveying this man handcuffed to Adelaide, he
threw himself off the lofty cliffs at the Great Bend into the river
beneath, and attempted to escape by swimming across it, but he was
recaptured and taken safe to Adelaide, where subsequent kind treatment
had considerable influence on his savage disposition. His attempt to
escape was of the boldest kind, and was spoken of with astonishment by
those who witnessed it, but so desperate an act only proved how much more
these people value liberty than life. I am sure that bold savage would
have submitted to torture without a groan; he was the most repulsive
native in aspect that I ever saw, and had a most ferocious countenance.
The thick lip and white teeth, the lowering brow, and deep set but sharp
eye, with the rapidly retiring forehead all betrayed the savage with the
least intellect, but his demeanour was now quiet and inoffensive.

Mr. Eyre again preceded us to the Rufus, with Kenny and Tenbury; for
although we had been disappointed in seeing any natives at Lake Bonney,
it was hardly to be doubted but that we should find a considerable number
at Lake Victoria.

We joined Mr. Eyre about noon at the junction of the Rufus with the
Murray, and which serves like Hawker's Creek as a channel of
communication between that river and the Murray. Here Mr. Eyre had
collected 69 natives, who were about to go out kangarooing when he
arrived. They had their hunting spears and a few waddies, but no other
weapons.

We had now arrived at Nadbuck's native place, and he left us to join his
family, promising still to accompany us up the Darling. A principal
object Mr. Eyre had in joining me had been to distribute some blankets to
those natives who, living in the distance, seldom came to Moorundi to
benefit by the distribution of food and clothing there. In the position
we now occupied we were flanked by the Rufus to our left, and had the
Murray in front of us. The ground in our rear and to our right was rather
bushy, and numerous Fusani, covered with fruit, were growing there; Lake
Victoria being about four miles to our rear also. Considering the spirit
of the natives on this part of the Murray, the position was not very
secure, as we were too confined; but I had no apprehension of any attack
from them, they having for some time shewn a more pacific disposition,
and against whom we were otherwise always well prepared. As soon,
therefore, as the tents were pitched, we walked together along the bank
of the Rufus to its junction with the lake, but not seeing any of the
native families we turned back, until observing some young men on the
opposite side of the channel we called to them, and one of them ferried
us over in a canoe. We had then a long round of visits to make to the
different families of the natives, since they were all encamped on the
eastern or opposite side of the Rufus.

The first huts to which we went happened to be that of our friend
Nadbuck, and he introduced us, as Camboli had done, to his wives and
children, of whom the old gentleman was very proud. We then visited
eleven other huts in succession, after which we returned to the place
where the canoe had been left, with twelve patriarchs, to whom Mr. Eyre
(wisely selecting the oldest) intended making some presents. We were
again ferried across the Rufus, the current setting strong into Lake
Victoria at the time, and had well nigh gone down in our frail bark, to
the infinite amusement of our Charon. We had just time, however, to reach
the bank and to get out of her when she went down.

It was at this particular spot that the natives sustained so severe a
loss when Pulcanti was taken. They got between two fires, that of Mr.
Robinson's party of overlanders, with whom they had been fighting for
three days; and a party of police who, providentially for Mr. Robinson,
came up just in time to save him from being overwhelmed by numbers.
Astonished at finding themselves taken in flank, the blacks threw
themselves into the Rufus, and some effected their escape, but about
forty fell, whose grave we passed on our way back to the camp.

The natives who accompanied us pointed out the mound to Mr. Eyre and
myself as we walked along, and informed us that thirty of their relatives
laid underneath; but they did not seem to entertain any feelings of
revenge for the loss they had sustained.

On the morrow, my worthy friend left me, on his return to Moorundi,
together with Kenny and Tenbury, and a young native of the Rufus. We all
saw them depart with feelings of deep regret; but Mr. Eyre had important
business to attend to which did not admit of delay.

A little before Mr. Eyre mounted his horse, I had sent Mr. Browne, with
Flood and Pulcanti, to the eastward, to ascertain how high the backwaters
of the Murray had gone up the Ana-branch of the Darling, since that
ancient channel laid right in our way, and I was anxious if possible to
run up it, rather than proceed to the river itself, as being a much
nearer line. In the afternoon Mr. Poole and I moved the camp over to the
lake, and on the following day I directed him to ascertain its
circumference, as we should be detained a day or two awaiting the return
of Mr. Browne.


CHAPTER III.


MR. BROWNE'S RETURN--HIS ACCOUNT OF THE COUNTRY--CHANGE OF
SCENE--CONTINUED RAIN--TOONDA JOINS THE PARTY--STORY OF THE
MASSACRE--LEAVE LAKE VICTORIA--ACCIDENT TO FLOOD--TURN NORTHWARDS--CROSS
TO THE DARLING--MEET NATIVES--TOONDA'S HAUGHTY MANNER--NADBUCK'S
CUNNING--ABUNDANCE OF FEED--SUDDEN FLOODS--BAD COUNTRY--ARRIVAL AT
WILLIORARA--CONSEQUENT DISAPPOINTMENT--PERPLEXITY--MR. POOLE GOES TO THE
RANGES--MR. BROWNE'S RETURN--FOOD OF THE NATIVES--POSITION OF WILLIORARA.


Lake Victoria is a very pretty sheet of water, 24 miles in
circumference {DIAMETER in published text}, very shallow, and at times
nearly dry. As I have previously observed of Lake Bonney, it is connected
with the Murray by the Rufus, and by this distribution of its waters,
the floods of the Murray are prevented from being excessive, or rising
above a certain height.

The southern shore of Lake Victoria is very picturesque, as well as the
line of the Rufus. The latter however is much wooded, whereas the S.W.
shore of the lake is low and grassy, and beautiful umbrageous trees adorn
it, in number not more than two or three to the acre. As Mr. Poole was
engaged near me, I remained stationary on the 13th, but on the following
day moved the camp seven miles to the westward, for his convenience. On
the 15th I again moved so as to keep pace with him, and was highly
delighted at the really park-like appearance of the scenery. This pretty
locality is now occupied as a cattle run, and must be a place of
amusement as well as profit.

We met Mr. Browne and Flood on their return to the camp from the journey
on which I had sent them, about an hour before we halted.

Mr. Browne informed me that the day he left me he rode for some miles
along the shore of the lake, and that after leaving it he encamped in the
scrub, having travelled about seventeen miles. The brush was very dense,
although there were open intervals; it consisted of trees and shrubs of
the usual kind, the soil was very sandy, and there was a good deal of
spinifex upon it.

The next day, still on a due east course (that on which he had travelled
from the lake), and at five miles from where he had slept, Mr. Browne
came on a salt lake, about 800 yards in circumference. A third of the bed
was under water, and half of the remainder was white with crystallized
salt, that glittered in the sun's rays, and looked like water at a
distance. At about five miles farther on there were two other lakes of
the same kind, but both were dry and without any salt deposits in their
beds. At five miles beyond these lakes Mr. Browne intersected the
Ana-branch of the Darling, which I had detached him to examine. To within
a short distance of the Ana-branch the country was similar to that
through which he had passed the day before, but on nearing it he crossed
an open plain. This old channel of the Darling had been crossed by Mr.
Eyre on a recent journey to the north, but at that time was dry. Where
Mr. Browne struck it the banks were rather high, and its course was N.W.
by W. It was about eighty yards wide, with a strong current running
upwards, caused by the back waters of the Murray. Its general course for
12 miles was N. by E. The country was very open, and high banks, similar
to those on the Murray, occurred alternately on either side. The channel
maintained the same appearance as far as Mr. Browne; rode and as he found
the waters still running upwards, he considered that the object of his
journey was attained, and that we should find no difficulty in pursuing
our route northwards along this new line. It may be necessary for me to
inform the reader that no water ever flows down the Ana-branch from the
north. When Mr. Eyre first arrived on its banks it was dry, and he was
consequently obliged to cross the country to the Darling itself, a
distance of between 40 and 50 miles. Pulcanti, the native I sent with Mr.
Browne, however, made a rough sketch of the two channels, by which it
appeared that the Ana-branch held very much to the eastward, in proof of
which he pointed to a high line of trees, at a great distance, as being
the line of the river Darling. Considering from this that, even if water
failed us in the Ana-branch, we should have no difficulty in crossing to
the main stream, and that however short our progress might be, it would
greatly curtail our journey to Laidley's Ponds, I decided on trying the
new route.

Mr. Browne saw a great many red kangaroos (foxy), some very young, others
very large; and he chased a jerboa, which escaped him. He also saw a new
bird with a black crest, about the size of a thrush.

The morning of the 14th had been cloudy, but the day was beautifully
fine; so that we had really enjoyed our march, if so it might be called.
From our tents there was a green and grassy slope to the shore of the
lake, with a group of two or three immense trees, at distances of several
hundred yards apart, and the tranquil waters lay backed by low blue
hills.

On the morning of the 15th the barometer fell to 27.672, the thermometer
standing at 56 degrees, at 8 a.m. The air was heavy, the sky dull, and
the flies exceedingly troublesome. All these indications of an
approaching change in the weather might have determined me to remain
stationary, but I was anxious to push on. I therefore directed Mr. Poole
to complete the survey of the lake, and at eleven moved the whole party
forward.

The picturesque scenery which had, up to this point, adorned the shores
of Lake Victoria ceased at two miles, when we suddenly and at once found
ourselves travelling on sand, at the same time amidst reeds. The rich
soil disappeared, the trees becoming stunted and low. As the travelling
was also bad, we went along the margin of the lake, where the sand was
firm, although marked with ripples like those left on the sea-shore by
the tide, between the water and a line of rubbish and weeds inside of us,
so that it appeared the lake had not yet risen so high as the former
year. We had moved round to its eastern side, which being its lea side
also, the accumulation of rubbish and sand was easily accounted for. We
traversed about eight miles of as dreary a shore as can be imagined,
backed, like Lake Bonney, by bare sand hills and barren flats, and
encamped, after a journey of thirteen miles, on a small plain, separated
from the lake by a low continuous sand ridge, on which the oat-grass was
most luxuriant. The indications of the barometer did not deceive us, for
soon after we started it began to rain, and did not cease for the rest of
the day, the wind being in the N.E. quarter.

It continued showery all night, nor on the morning of the 16th was there
any appearance of a favourable change. At nine a steady and heavy rain
setting in we remained stationary.

The floods in the Rufus had obliged us to make a complete circuit of the
lake, so that we had now approached that little stream to within six
miles from the eastward. Our friend Nadbuck, therefore, thinking that we
were about to leave the neighbourhood, rejoined the party. With him about
eighty natives came to see us, and encamped close to our tents;
forty-five men, sixteen women, and twenty-six children. I sent some of
the former out to hunt, but they were not successful.

Amongst the natives there were two strangers from Laidley's Ponds, the
place to which we were bound. The one was on his way to Moorundi, the
other on his return home. Pulcanti had given us a glowing account of
Laidley's Ponds, and had assured us that we should not only find water,
but plenty of grass beyond the hills to the N.W. of that place. This
account the strangers confirmed; and the one who was on his way home
expressing a wish to join us, I permitted him to do so; in the hope that,
what with him and old Nadbuck, we should be the less likely to have any
rupture with the Darling natives, who were looked upon by us with some
suspicion. I was, in truth, very glad to take a native of Williorara up
with me, because I entertained great doubts as to the reception we should
meet with from the tribe, on our arrival there, in consequence of the
unhappy occurrence that took place between them and Sir Thomas Mitchell,
during a former expedition; and I hoped also to glean from this native
some information as to the distant interior. Both the Darling natives
were fine specimens of their race. One in particular, Toonda, was a
good-looking fellow, with sinews as tough as a rope. It also appeared to
me that they had a darker shade of colour than the natives of the Murray.

Nadbuck turned out to be a merry old man, and a perfect politician in his
way, very fond of women and jimbuck (sheep), and exceedingly
good-humoured with all. He here brought Davenport a large quantity of the
fruit of the Fusanus, of which he made an excellent jam, too good indeed
to keep; but if we could have anticipated the disease by which we were
afterwards attacked, its preservation would have been above all price.
The natives do not eat this fruit in any quantity, nor do I think that in
its raw state it is wholesome. They appeared to me tol ive chiefly on
vegetables during the season of the year that we passed up the Murray,
herbs and roots certainly constituted their principal food.

I had hoped that the weather would have cleared during the night, but in
this I was disappointed. On the 17th we had again continued rain until
sunset, when the sky cleared to windward and the glass rose. We were
however unable to stir, and so lost another day. About noon Nadbuck came
to inform me that the young native from Laidley's Ponds, who was on his
way to Moorundi, had just told him that only a few days before he
commenced his journey, the Darling natives had attacked an overland party
coming down the river, and had killed them all, in number fifteen. I
therefore sent for the lad, and with Mr. Browne's assistance examined
him. He was perfectly consistent in his story; mentioned the number of
drays, and said that the white fellows were all asleep when the natives
attacked them amongst the lagoons, and that only one native, a woman, was
killed; the blacks, he added, had plenty of shirts and jackets. Doubtful
as I was of this story, and equally puzzled to guess what party could
have been coming down the Darling, it was impossible not to give some
little credit to the tale of this young cub; for he neither varied in his
account or hesitated in his reply to any question. I certainly feared
that some sad scene of butchery had taken place, and became the more
anxious to push my way up to the supposed spot, where it was stated to
have occurred, to save any one who might have escaped. I felt it my duty
also before leaving Lake Victoria to report what I had heard to the
Governor.

As the barometer fell before the rain, so it indicated a cessation of it,
by gradually rising. The weather had indeed cleared up the evening
before, but the morning of the 18th was beautifully fine and cool; we
therefore yoked up the cattle and took our departure from Lake Victoria
at 9 a.m. At first the ground was soft, but it soon hardened again.
Shortly after starting we struck a little creek, which trended to the
south, so that we were obliged to leave it, but we could trace the line
of trees on its banks to a considerable distance. We traversed plains of
great extent, keeping on the overland road until at length we gained the
river, and encamped on a small neck of land leading to a fine grassy
enclosure, into which we put our cattle. One side of this enclosure was
flanked by the river, the other by a beautiful lagoon, that looked more
like a scene on Virginia water than one in the wilds of Australia.

As we crossed the plains we again observed numerous cattle tracks, and
regularly beaten paths leading from the brushes to the river, to the very
point indeed where we encamped. The natives had previously informed us,
as far back as the place where we shot the first bullock, that we should
fall in with other cattle hereabouts; we did not however see any of them
during the day. Our tents were pitched on the narrow neck of land leading
to an enclosure into which we had turned our animals. It was so narrow
indeed that nothing could pass either in or out of it without being
observed by the guard, so that neither could our cattle escape or the
wild ones join them. It was clear, however, that we had cut off the
latter from their favourite pasture, for at night they were bellowing all
round us, and frequently approached close up to our fires. We had no
difficulty in distinguishing the lowing of the heifers from that of the
bullocks; of which last there appeared to be a large proportion in the
herd.

Some of our cattle were getting very sore necks, and our loads at this
time were too heavy for me to relieve them. Flood therefore suggested our
trying to secure two or three of the bullocks running in the bush. We
therefore arranged that a party should go out in the morning to scour the
wood, and drive any cattle they might find towards the river, at which I
was to be prepared to entice them to our animals. Accordingly Mr. Poole
and Mr. Browne, with Flood and Mack, started at sunrise. It was near
twelve, however, when Mr. Browne returned with Flood, who had met with a
sad accident, and had three of the first joints of the fingers of his
right hand carried off by the discharge of his fusee whilst loading. He
had incautiously put on the cap and was galloping at the time, but kept
his seat. Mr. Browne informed me they had seen a great many cattle, but
that they were exceedingly wild, and started off the moment the horsemen
appeared, insomuch that they could not turn them, and it was with a view
to drive them towards the river that Flood fired at them. However none
approached the camp. Mr. Poole returned late in the afternoon equally
unsuccessful. Mr. Browne dressed Flood's hand, who bore it exceedingly
well, and only expressed his regret that he should be of no use on the
Darling in the event of any rupture with the natives. I remained
stationary, as Mr. Browne thought it would be necessary to keep Flood
quiet for a day or two. On the following day we resumed our journey, and
reached the junction of the ancient channel of the Darling with the
Murray about 11. The floods were running into it with great velocity, and
the water had risen to a considerable height, so that many trees were
standing in it. I remained here until noon, when a meridian altitude
placed us in lat. 34 degrees 4 minutes 34 seconds. We then bade adieu to
the Murray, and turned northwards to overtake the party, which under
Nadbuck's guidance had cut off the angle into which we had gone. With the
Murray we lost its fine trees and grassy flats. The Ana-branch had a
broad channel and long reaches of water; but was wholly wanting in
pasture or timber of any size. The plains of the interior formed the
banks, and nothing but salsolae grew on them. We encamped at eight miles
from the junction, where there happened to be a little grass, but were
obliged to keep the cattle in yoke and the horses tethered to prevent
their wandering. As we advanced up the Ana-branch on the following day,
its channel sensibly diminished in breadth, and at eleven miles we
reached a hollow, beyond which the floods had not worked their way. Here
we found a tribe of natives, thirty-seven in number, by whom the account
we had heard of the massacre of the over-landers at the lagoons of the
Darling was confirmed. Nadbuck now informed me that we should have to
cross the Ana-branch and go to the eastward, and that it would be
necessary to start by dawn, as we should not reach the Darling before
sunset. Nadbuck had now become a great favourite, and there was a dry
kind of humour about him that was exceedingly amusing, at the same time
that his services were really valuable.

Toonda, on the other hand, was a man of singular temperament. He was
good-looking and more intelligent than any native I had ever before seen.
His habit was spare, but his muscles were firm, and his sinews like
whipcord He must indeed have had great confidence in his own powers to
have undertaken a journey of more than 200 miles from his own home. He
was very taciturn, and would rather remain at the officers' fire than
join his fellows.

The country we had passed through during the day had been miserable.
Plains of great extent flanked the Ana-branch on either side, on which
there were sandy undulations covered with stunted cypress trees or low
brush.

Flood had from the time of his accident suffered great pain; but as he
did not otherwise complain, Mr. Browne did not entertain any apprehension
as to his having any attack of fever.

On the morning of the 24th, the natives paid us an early visit with their
boys, and remained at the camp until we started. At the head of the water
they had made a weir, through the boughs of which the current was running
like a sluice; but the further progress of the floods was stopped by a
bank that had been gradually thrown up athwart the channel. Crossing the
Ana-branch at this point, we struck across barren sandy plains, on a
N.N.E. course. From them we entered a low brush, in which there were more
dead than living trees. At four miles this brush terminated, and we had
again to traverse open barren plains. At their termination we had to
force our way through a second brush, consisting for the most part of
fusani, acaciae, hakeae, and other low shrubs, but there were no
cypresses here as in the first brush. On gaining more open ground, the
country gradually rose before us, and a ferruginous conglomerate cropped
out in places. We at length began our descent towards the valley of the
Darling. The country became better wooded: the box-tree was growing on
partially flooded land, and there was no deficiency of grass. Mr. Browne
went on a-head with Toonda and Flood, whilst I and Mr. Poole remained
with the party. From the appearance of the country, however, I
momentarily expected to come on the river; but the approach to it from
the westward is extremely deceptive, and we had several miles of box-tree
flats to traverse before the gum-trees shewed their white bark in the
distance. We reached the Darling at half-past five, as the sun's almost
level beams were illuminating the flats, and every blade of grass and
every reed appeared of that light and brilliant green which they assume
when held up to the light. The change from barrenness and sterility to
richness and verdure was sudden and striking, and nothing certainly could
have been more cheering or cheerful than our first camp on the Darling
River. The scene itself was very pretty. Beautiful and drooping trees
shaded its banks, and the grass in its channel was green to the water's
edge. Evening's mildest radiance seemed to linger on a scene so fair, and
there was a mellow haze in the distance that softened every object. The
cattle and horses were up to their flanks in grass and young reeds, and
plants indicative of a better soil, such as the sowthistle, the mallow,
peppermint, and indigofera were growing in profusion around us. Close to
our tents there was a large and hollow gum-tree, in which a new fishing
net had been deposited, but where the owner intended to use it was a
puzzle to us, for it was impossible that any fish could remain in the
shallow and muddy waters of the Darling; which was at its lowest ebb, and
the current was so feeble that I doubted if it really flowed at all.
Whether the natives anticipated the flood which shortly afterwards
swelled it I cannot say, although I am led to believe they did, either
from habit or experience.

So abundant had been the feed that none of the cattle stirred out of
sight of the camp, and we should have started at an early hour, but for
the visit of an old native, the owner of the net we had discovered. It
was with some hesitation that he crossed the river to us, but he did so;
and as soon as he saw me he recognised me as having been in the boat on
the Murray in 1830, though fourteen years had passed since that time, and
he could only have seen me for an hour or two. He was not, however,
singular in his recollection of me, since one of the natives of the
Ana-branch also recollected me; and Tenbury, the native constable at
Moorundi, not only knew me the moment he saw me, but observed that a
little white man sat by my side in the stern of the boat, and that I had
something before me, which was a compass. There was a suspicious manner
about our visitor, for which we could not very well account; but it arose
from doubts he entertained as to the safety of his net, for after he had
seen that it had not been taken away, his demeanour changed, and he
expressed great satisfaction that we had not touched it.

We commenced our journey up the Darling at nine o'clock, on a course
somewhat to the westward {EASTWARD in published text} of north.
We passed flat after flat of the most vivid green, ornamented by clumps
of trees, sufficiently apart to give a most picturesque finish to the
landscape. Trees of denser foliage and deeper shade dropped over the
river, forming long dark avenues, and the banks of the river, grassed
to the water, had the appearance of having been made so by art.

We halted, after a journey of fourteen miles, on a flat little inferior
to that we had left, and again turned the cattle out to feed on the
luxuriant herbage around them.

The Darling must have been in the state in which we found it for a great
length of time, and I am led to infer, from the very grassy nature of its
bed, that it seldoms contains water to any depth, or length of time,
since in such case the grass would be killed. Its flats, like those of
the Murray, are backed by lagoons, but they had long been dry, and the
trees growing round them were either dead or dying.

With the exception of the tribe at the Ana-branch, and the old man, we
had seen no natives since leaving the Murray; but, from the reports we
had heard of the recent massacre of the overland party at Williorara, and
the character of the Darling blacks, I was induced to take double
precautions as I journeyed up the river, and had the camp so formed that
it could not be surprised. Two drays were ranged close to each other on
either side, the boat carriage formed a face to the rear, and the tents
occupied the front; thus leaving sufficient room in the centre to fold
the sheep in netting. The guard, augmented to six men, occupied a tent at
one angle. My own tent was in the centre of the front, and another tent
at the angle opposite the guard tent. So that it would have been
difficult for the natives to have got at the sheep (which they most
coveted), without alarming us. Still, although we had no apprehension of
the natives, both Nadbuck and Toonda were constantly on the watch, and it
was evident the former considered himself in no mean capacity at this
time. He put on an air of great importance, and shewed great anxiety
about our next interview with the natives; but Toonda took everything
quietly, and there was a haughty bearing about him, that contrasted
strangely with the bustling importance of his companion.

We here heard that there was a large encampment of natives about three
miles above us, but none of them ventured to our camp; nor, it is more
than probable, were the people aware of our being in the neighbourhood;
but our friend Nadbuck, as I have stated, was in a great bustle, and
shewed infinite anxiety on the occasion. Neither were his apprehensions
allayed on the following morning when we started. He went in advance to
prepare the natives for our approach, and to ask permission for us to
pass through their territory, but returned without having found them. Not
long afterwards it was reported that the natives were in front.

On hearing this the old gentleman begged of me to stop the party, and
away he went, full of bustle and importance, to satisfy himself. In a few
minutes he returned and said we might go on. We had halted close to the
brow of a gentle descent into a small creek junction at this particular
spot, and on advancing a few paces came in view of the natives, assembled
on the bank of the river below. Men only were present, but they appeared
to have been taken by surprise, and were in great alarm. They had their
spears for hunting, and a few hostile weapons, but not many; and
certainly had not met together with any hostile intention.

Some of the men were very good looking and well made, but I think the
natives of the Darling generally are so. They looked with astonishment on
the drays, which passed close to them; and I observed that several of
them trembled greatly. At this time Nadbuck had walked to some little
distance with two old men, holding each by the hand in the most
affectionate manner, and he was apparently in deep and earnest
conversation with them. Toonda, on the other hand, had remained seated on
one of the drays, until it descended into the creek. He then got off, and
walking up to the natives, folded his blanket round him with a haughty
air, and eyed the whole of them with a look of stern and unbending pride,
if not of ferocity. Whether it was that his firmness produced any effect
I cannot say, but after one of the natives had whispered to another, he
walked up to Toonda and saluted him, by putting his hands on his
shoulders and bending his head until it touched his breast. This Toonda
coldly returned, and then stood as frigid as before, until the drays
moved on, when he again resumed his seat and left them without uttering a
word. Nadbuck had separated from his friends, after having as it seemed
imparted to them some important information, and coming up to myself and
Mr. Browne, whispered to us, "Bloody rogue that fellow, you look after
jimbuck." The contrast between these two men was remarkable: the crafty
duplicity of the one, and the haughty bearing of the other. But I am led
to believe that there was some latent cause for Toonda's conduct, since
he asked me to shoot the natives, and was so excited that he pushed his
blanket into his mouth, and bit it violently in his anger. On this I
offered him a pistol to shoot them himself, but he returned it to me with
a smile. Of course it will be understood that I should not have allowed
him to fire it.

Two of the old men followed when we left the other natives, to whom I
made presents in the afternoon; but it is remarkable that many of them
trembled whilst we staid with them, and although their women were not
present, they hovered on the opposite bank of the Darling all the time.
We kept wide of the river almost all day, travelling between the scrub
and lagoons, but we had occasionally to ascend and cross ridges of loose
sand, over which the bullock-drivers were obliged to help each other with
their teams. There was not the slightest change in the character of the
distant interior, but the vicinity of the Darling was thickly timbered
for more than three-quarters of a mile from its banks, but the wood was
valueless for building purposes.

I was exceedingly surprised at the course of the river at this point. We
had gone a good deal to the eastward the day before, but on this day we
sometimes travelled on a course to the southward of east, and never for
the whole day came higher up than east by north. The consequence was,
that we proceeded into a deep bight, and made no progress northwards up
the river. At our camp it had dwindled to a mere thread, so narrow was
the line of water in its bed. Its banks were as even and as smooth as
those of a fortification, and covered with a thick, even sward. There was
no perceptible current and the water was all muddy; but the scenery in
its precincts was still verdant and picturesque, grassy flats with
ornamental trees succeeding each other at every bend of the stream.

The dogs killed a large kangaroo on the plains, the greater part of which
we gave to the natives, all indeed but a leg, which Jones, whose duty it
was to feed them, reserved for the dogs. Yet this appropriation excited
Toonda's anger. "Kangaroo mine, sheep yours," said he, threatening Jones
with his waddy; but he soon recovered his temper, and carried off his
share of the animal, subduing his feelings with as much apparent facility
as he had given vent to them.

About this time the weather had become much warmer, although we had
occasional cold winds. We started early on the morning of the 27th,
without the intention of making a long journey, because the bullocks had
been kept in yoke all night. We travelled for six miles over firm and
even plains, but soon afterwards got upon deep sand, through which the
teams fairly ploughed their way. I therefore turned towards the river,
and encamped on the first flat we reached, having run about ten miles on
an east-north-east course.

We here found the Darling so diminished in size, and so still, that I
began to doubt whether or not we should find water higher up. Its
channel, however preserved the appearance of a canal, with sloping grassy
sides, shaded by trees of drooping habit and umbrageous foliage, but the
soil of the flats had become sandy, and they appeared to be more subject
to inundation than usual.

About this time I regretted to observe that many of the bullocks had sore
necks, and I was in consequence obliged to make a different distribution
of them; an alternative always better if possible to avoid, as men become
attached to their animals, and part even with bad ones reluctantly.

On counting our sheep at this camp, I found that we had 186 remaining.
Toonda came as usual to take his share of one that had just been killed;
but I said, No! that, according to his own shewing, he had no claim to
any--thinking this the best way of speaking to his reason.

He seemed much astonished at the view I took of the matter, but on his
acknowledging himself in error, I forgave his recent ebullition and
allowed him his wonted meal; for, although I was always disposed to be
kind to the natives, I still felt it right to shew them that they were
not to be unruly. Neither is it without great satisfaction that I look
back to the intercourse I have had with these people, from the fact of my
never having had occasion to raise my arm in hostility agianst them.

The cattle fared well on the luxuriant grass into which they had been
turned when we halted, and as they had no inducement to wander, so they
were close to the camp at daybreak, and we started at 7 on an
east-north-east course, which at a mile we changed to a northerly one;
but soon afterwards finding that a pine ridge crossed our course, and
extended to the banks of the river, I turned to the north-west to avoid
it, but the country becoming generally sandy I again turned towards the
stream, and by going round the sandy points instead of over them,
lessened the labour to the cattle, although I increased the distance. We
were glad to find that the Darling held a general northerly course, or
one somewhat to the westward of that point, for we had during the last
three or four days made a great deal of easting, and I had thus been
prevented making the rapid progress I anticipated to Laidley's Ponds.

I had observed for more than twenty miles below us that the immediate
precincts of the river were not so rich in soil, or the flats so
extensive as at first; they now however began to open out, and assumed
the character and size of those of the Murray. The state of the two
rivers however was very different, for the Darling still continued
without breadth or current, (I speak of its appearance in lat. 33 degrees
43 minutes S.) whilst the Murray ever presents its bright and expanded
waters to the view.

We had communicated with a native tribe the day before that of which I am
now speaking, and again this day fell in with another, which we evidently
took by surprise. All the men had their spears, but on seeing us approach
they quietly deposited them under a tree. Amongst these people there was
another native who recognised me as an old acquaintance of fourteen
years' standing; but I began to doubt these patriarchs, to whom I
generally made a present for old acquaintance sake. This tribe numbered
forty-eight. All of them were handsome and well-made men, though short in
stature, and their lower extremities bore some proportion to their busts.

For the first time this day we observed a ferruginous sandstone in the
bed of the Darling, and saw it cropping out from under the sand hills on
the western extremity of the flats.

Shortly after leaving the natives we arrived at a small plain, where they
could only just have killed a kangaroo that was lying on the ground
partly prepared for cooking. On seeing it I ordered the dogs to be tied
up, and left it untouched. Indeed if I had been fortunate enough to kill
a kangaroo at this place, I would have given it to these poor people.
Three of them, who afterwards came to our camp, mentioned the
circumstance, and seemed to be sensible of our feelings towards them.
There can be no doubt but that the Australian aboriginal is strongly
susceptible of kindness, as has been abundantly proved to me, and to the
influence of such feeling I doubtlessly owe my life; for if I had treated
the natives harshly, and had thrown myself into their power afterwards,
as under a kind but firm system I have ever done without the slightest
apprehension, they would most assuredly have slain me; and when I assure
the reader that I have traversed the country in every direction, meeting
numerous tribes of natives, with two men only, and with horses so jaded
that it would have been impossible to have escaped, he will believe that
I speak my real sentiments. Equally so the old native, (to whom the net
we discovered in the hollow of a tree where we first struck the Darling
belonged), evinced the greatest astonishment and gratification, when he
found that his treasure had been untouched by us.

The flats of the Darling are certainly of great extent, but their verdure
reached no farther than the immediate precincts of the river at this part
of its course. Beyond its immediate neighbourhood they are perfectly
bare, but lightly wooded, having low and useless box-trees (the Gobero of
Sir Thomas Mitchell), growing on them. Their soil is a tenacious clay,
blistered and rotten. These flats extend to uncertain distances from the
river, and vary in breadth from a quarter of a mile to two miles or more.
Beyond them the country is sandy, desolate, and scrubby. Pine ridges,
generally lying parallel to the stream, render travelling almost
impracticable where they exist, whilst the deep fissures and holes on the
flats, into which it is impossible to prevent the drays from falling,
give but little room for selection. Our animals were fairly worn out by
hard pulling on the one, and being shaken to pieces on the other.

Some days prior to the 29th, Mr. Browne and I, on examining the waters of
the river, thought that we observed a more than usual current in it;
grass and bark were floating on its surface, and it appeared as if the
water was pushed forward by some back impulse. On the 28th it was still
as low as ever; but on the morning of the 29th, when we got up it was
wholly changed. In a few hours it had been converted into a noble river,
and had risen more than five feet above its recent level. It was now
pouring along its muddy waters with foaming impetuosity, and carrying
away everything before it. Whence, it may be asked, come these floods?
and was it from the same cause that the Murray, as Tenbury stated, rose
so suddenly? Such were the questions that occurred to me. From the
natives I could gather nothing satisfactory. We were at this time between
three and four hundred miles from the sources of the Darling, and I could
hardly think that this fresh had come from such a distance. I was the
more disposed to believe, perhaps, because I hoped such would be the
case, that it was caused by heavy rains in the hills to the north-west of
Laidley's Ponds, and that it was pouring into the river through that
rivulet.

The natives who had accompanied us from the last tribe left at sunset, as
is their custom, after having received two blankets and some knives.
Being anxious to get to Laidley's Ponds, I started early, with the
intention of making a long journey, but circumstances obliged me to halt
at six miles. We crossed extensive and rich flats the whole of the way,
and found as usual an abundance of feed for our cattle. It would perhaps
be hazardous to give an opinion as to the probable availability of the
flats of the Darling: those next the stream had numerous herbs, as
spinach, indigoferae, clover, etc., all indicative of a better soil; but
the out flats were bare of vegetation, although there was no apparent
difference in their soil. One peculiarity is observable in the Darling,
that neither are there any reeds growing in its channel or on the flats.

Our journey on the last day of September terminated at noon, as we
arrived at a point from which it was evident the river takes a great
sweep to the eastward; and Nadbuck informed me that by going direct to
the opposite point, where, after coming up again, it turned to the north,
we should cut off many miles, but that it would take a whole day to
perform the journey. I determined therefore to follow his advice, and to
commence our journey across the bight at an early hour the following
morning, the 1st of October. I availed myself of the remainder of the day
to examine the country for some miles to the westward, but there was no
perceptible change in it. The same barren plains, covered sparingly with
salsolae and atriplex, characterised this distant part of the interior;
and sandy ridges covered with stunted cypress trees, acaciae, hakeae, and
other similar shrubs, proved to me that the productions of it were as
unchanged as the soil.

As we had arranged, we broke up our camp earlier than usual on the 1st of
October, for, from what Nadbuck had stated, I imagined that we had a long
journey before us; but after going fifteen miles, we gained the river,
and found that it was again trending to the north. It had now risen more
than bank high, and some of its flats were partly covered with water. We
had kept a N.N.W. course the whole day, and crossed hard plains without
any impediment; but, although we kept at a great distance from the
stream, we did not observe any improvement in the aspect of the country.

Our specimens, both of natural history and botany, were as yet very
scanty; but we found a new and beautiful shrub in blossom, on some of the
plains as we crossed the bight; and Mr. Browne discovered three nests of
a peculiar rat, that have been partially described by Sir Thomas
Mitchell.

Mr. Browne was fortunate enough to secure one of these animals, which is
here figured. The nests they construct are made of sticks, varying in
length from three inches to three feet, and in thickness from the size of
a quill to the size of the thumb. They were arranged in a most systematic
manner, so as to form a compact cone like a bee-hive, four feet in
diameter at the base, and three feet high. This fabric is so firmly
built, as to be pulled to pieces with difficulty. One of these nests had
five holes or entrances from the bottom, nearly equi-distant from each
other, with passages leading to a hole in the ground, beneath which I am
led to conclude they had their store. There were two nests of grass in
the centre of the pyramid, and passages running up to them diagonally
from the bottom. The sticks, which served for the foundations of the
nests, were not more than two or three inches long, and so disposed as to
form a compact flooring, whilst the roofs were arched. The nests were
close together, but in separate compartments, with passages communicating
from the one to the other.

In a pyramid that we subsequently opened, there was a nest nearly at the
top; so that it would appear that these singular structures are common to
many families, and that the animals live in communities. The heap of
sticks, thus piled up, would fill four large-sized wheel-barrows, and
must require infinite labour. This ingenious little animal measures six
inches from the tip of the nose to the tail, which is six inches long.
The length of the head is two and a half inches, of the ears one and a
quarter, and one inch in breadth. Its fur is of a light brown colour, and
of exceedingly fine texture. It differs very little in appearance from
the common rat, if I except the length of its ears, and an apparent
disproportion in the size of the hind feet, which were large. The one
figured is a male, which I obtained from one of the natives who followed
us to the camp.

At this period of our journey the weather was exceedingly cold, and the
winds high. We were about 45 miles from Laidley's Ponds; but could not,
from the most elevated point, catch a glimpse of the ranges in its
neighbourhood. It appeared to me that the river flats were getting
smaller on both sides of it, the river still continuing to rise. It was
now pouring down a vast body of water into the Murray. There was,
however, an abundance of luxuriant pasture along its banks. Late in the
afternoon the lubras (wives) of the natives, at our camp, made their
appearance on the opposite side of the river, and Nadbuck, who was a
perfect gallant, wanted to invite them over; but I told him that I would
cut off the head of the first who came over with my long knife--my sword.
The old gentleman went off to Mr. Browne, to whom he made a long
complaint, asking him if he really thought I should execute my threat.
Mr. Browne assured him that he was quite certain I should not only cut
off the lubra's head, but his too. On this Nadbuck expressed his
indignation; but however much he might have ventured to risk the lubra's
necks, he had no idea of risking his own.

One of the natives who visited us at this place was very old, with hair
as white as snow. To this man I gave a blanket, feeling assured it would
be well bestowed; although a circumstance occurred that had well night
prevented my behaving with my usual liberality to the natives who were
here with us. The butcher had been killing a sheep, and carelessly left
the steel, an implement we could ill spare, under the tree in which he
had slung the animal: and it was instantly taken by the natives. On
hearing this, I sent for Nadbuck and Toonda, and told them that I should
not stir until the steel was brought back, or make any more presents on
the river. On this there was a grand consultation between the two. Toonda
at length went to the natives, who had retired to some little distance,
and, after some earnest remonstrances, he walked to the tree near which
the sheep had been killed, and, after looking at the ground for a moment,
began to root up the ground with his toes, when he soon discovered the
stolen article, and brought it to me. The thief was subsequently brought
forward, and we made him thoroughly ashamed of himself; although I have
no doubt the whole tribe would have applauded his dexterity if he had
succeeded.

The day was exceedingly cold, as the two or three previous ones had been,
but still the temperature was delightful. We travelled, on this day,
across the river flats, which again opened out to a distance of two or
three miles; the ground, however, was of a most distressing character,
and we had to cross several sandy points projecting into them, so that
the poor animals were much jaded. This, however, was only the beginning
of their troubles, for we were, in like manner, obliged to travel for
several successive days over the same kind of ground--land on which
floods have gradually subsided, and which has been blistered and cracked
by solar heat. Travelling on this kind of ground was, indeed, more
distressing to the cattle than even the hard pull over sand; for it was
impossible for the bullock-drivers to steer clear of the many fissures
and holes on these flats, and the shock, when the drays fell into any of
them, was so great, that it shook the poor brutes almost to pieces.

From this period to the 9th there was a sameness in our progress up the
Darling. On the 3rd we crossed a small creek, into which the waters of
the river were flowing fast; and which both Nadbuck and Toonda informed
us joined Yertello Lake, and that the Ana-branch was on the other side of
the lake. This explanation accounted to us for a statement made by
Toonda, shortly after he first joined us, that the Ana-branch hereabouts
formed a great lake. On the 4th a little rain fell, but not in such
quantity as to interfere with our travelling. On the 5th we passed a
tribe of natives, in number about thirty-four. We were again led by
Nadbuck across the country, to avoid the more circuitous route along the
river. We passed through a more pleasing country than usual, and one that
was better timbered and better grassed than it had been at any distance
from the river.

I have mentioned that Toonda was attended by a young lad, his nephew,
who, with another young lad, joined us at Lake Victoria. These two young
lads used to keep in front with myself or Mr. Poole, or Mr. Browne, and
were quite an amusement to us. This day both of them disappeared, not
very long after we passed the last tribe. On making inquiries I
ascertained, to my surprise, that they had been forcibly taken back by
three men from the last tribe, and that both cried most bitterly at
leaving the party. The loss of his nephew greatly afflicted poor Toonda,
who sobbed over it for a long time. We could not understand why the
natives had thus detained the boys; but, I believe, they were members of
that tribe, between which and a tribe higher up the river some ground of
quarrel existed. After the departure of these boys we had only three
natives with us, who had been with the party from Lake Victoria, i. e.
Nadbuck, Toonda, and Munducki, a young man who had attached himself to
Kirby, who cooked for the men. The latter turned out to be a son of old
Boocolo, a chief of the Williorara tribe, whom I shall, ere long, have
occasion to introduce to the reader. Mr. Browne, with the assistance of
Nadbuck, gathered a good deal of information from the natives then with
us, as to the inhospitable character of the country to the north-west of
the Williorara, or Laidley's Ponds, that agreed very little with the
accounts we had previously heard. They stated that we should not be able
to cross the ranges, as they were covered with sharp pointed stones and
great rocks, that would fall on and crush us to death; but that if we did
get across them to the low country on the other side, the heat would kill
us all. That we should find neither water or grass, or wood to light a
fire with. That the native wells were very deep, and that the cattle
would be unable to drink out of them; and, finally, that the water was
salt, and that the natives let down bundles of rushes to soak it up.

Such was the account the natives gave of the region into which we were
going. We were of course aware that a great deal was fiction, but I was
fully prepared to find it bad enough. From the opinion I had formed of
the distant interior, and from my knowledge of the country, both to the
eastward and westward of me, I had no hope of finding it good within any
reasonable distance.

Prepared, however, as I was for a bad country, I was not prepared for
such as the natives described.

It was somewhat strange, that as we neared the supposed scene of the
slaughter of the overlanders, we should fail in obtaining intelligence
regarding it; neither were the natives, who must have participated in it,
so high up the river as we now were, afraid of approaching us, as they
undoubtedly would have been if they had been parties to it. I began,
therefore, to suspect that it was one of those reports which the natives
are, unaccountably, so fond of spreading without any apparent object in
view.

As we approached Williorara the course of the river upwards was somewhat
to the westward of north. The country had an improved appearance as we
ascended it, and grass seemed to be more generally distributed over the
flats. We passed several large lagoons, which had already been filled
from the river, and were much pleased with the picturesque scenery round
them.

On the 7th Jones broke the pole of his dray, and Morgan again broke his
shaft, but we managed to repair both without the loss of much time--and
made about ten miles of northing during the day.

We hereabouts shot several new birds; and the dogs killed a very fine
specimen of the Dipus of Mitchell, but, unfortunately, in the scuffle,
they mangled it so much that we could not preserve it.

On the 8th the weather was oppressively hot, but we managed to get on
some fifteen miles before we halted.

Our journey up the Darling had been of greater length than I had
anticipated, and it appeared to me that I could not do better than reduce
the ration of flour at this early stage of the expedition to provide the
more certainly for the future. I accordingly reduced it to eight pounds a
week, still continuing to the men their full allowance of meat and other
things.

Nadbuck had assured me on the 9th that if the bullocks did not put out
their tongues we should get to Laidley's Ponds that day, but I hardly
anticipated it myself, although I was aware we could not be many miles
from them.

We had a great many natives in the neighbourhood at our encampment of the
8th, but they did not approach the tents. Their families generally were
on the opposite side of the river, but one man had his lubra and two
children on our side of it. My attention was drawn to him, from his
perseverance in cutting a bark canoe, at which he laboured for more than
an hour without success. Mr. Browne walked with me to the tree at which
he was working, and I found that his only tool was a stone tomahawk, and
that with such an implement he would hardly finish his work before dark.
I therefore sent for an iron tomahawk, which I gave to him, and with
which he soon had the bark cut and detached. He then prepared it for
launching by puddling up its ends, and putting it into the water, placed
his lubra and an infant child in it, and giving her a rude spear as a
paddle pushed her away from the bank. She was immediately followed by a
little urchin who was sitting on the bank, the canoe being too fragile to
receive him; but he evidently doubted his ability to gain the opposite
bank of the river, and it was most interesting to mark the anxiety of
both parents as the little fellow struck across the foaming current. The
mother kept close beside him in the canoe, and the father stood on the
bank encouraging his little son. At length they all landed in safety,
when the native came to return the tomahawk, which he understood to have
been only lent to him. However I was too much pleased with the scene I
had witnessed to deprive him of it, nor did I ever see a man more
delighted than he was when he found that the tomahawk, the value and
superiority of which he had so lately proved was indeed his own. He
thanked me for it, he eyed it with infinite satisfaction, and then
turning round plunged into the stream and joined his family on the
opposite bank.

We journeyed as usual over the river flats, and occasionally crossed
narrow sandy parts projecting into them. From one of these Mr. Poole was
the first to catch a glimpse of the hills for which we had been looking
out so long and anxiously. They apparently formed part of a low range,
and bore N.N.W. from him, but his view was very indistinct, and a small
cone was the only marked object he could distinguish. He observed a line
of gum-trees extending to the westward, and a solitary signal fire bore
due west from him, and threw up a dark column of smoke high into the sky
above that depressed interior. A meridian altitude placed us in latitude
32 degrees 33 minutes 0 seconds S., from which it appeared that we were
not more than eight or ten miles from Laidley's Ponds, but we halted
short of them, and received visits from a great many of the natives
during the afternoon, who came to us with their families, a circumstance
which led me to hope that we should get on very well with them. Poor
Toonda here heard of the death of some relative during his absence, and
had a great cry over it. He and the native who communicated the news sat
down opposite to one another with crossed legs, and their hands on each
other's shoulders. They then inclined their heads forward, so as to rest
on each other's breasts and wept violently. This overflow of grief,
however, did not last long, and Toonda shortly afterwards came to me for
some flour for his friend, who he said was very hungry.

As it appeared to me that we should have to remain for some time in the
neighbourhood of Laidley's Ponds, I had directed my inquiries to the
state of the country near them, and learnt both from Nadbuck and Toonda,
that we should find an abundance of grass for the cattle. I was not
however very well satisfied with the change that had taken place within a
few miles, in the appearance of the river, and the size of the flats,
these latter having greatly diminished, and become less verdant. On the
10th we started on a west course, but at about a mile changed it for a
due north one, which we kept for about five miles over plains rather more
than usually elevated above the river flats. From these plains the range
was distinctly visible, now bearing N. 10 degrees E., and N. 26 degrees
and 38 degrees W., distant 35 miles. It still appeared low, nor could we
make out its character; three cones marked its southern extremity, and I
concluded that it was a part of Scrope's Range. With the exception of
these hills there were none other visible from Laidley's Ponds.

The ground whereon we now travelled was hard and firm, so that we
progressed rapidly, and at five miles descended into a bare flat of
whitish clay, on which a few bushes of polygonum were alone growing under
box-trees. At about two hundred yards we were stopped by a watercourse,
into which the floods of the Darling were flowing with great velocity. It
was about fifty yards broad, had low muddy banks, and was decidedly the
poorest spot we had seen of the kind. This, Nadbuck informed me, was the
Williorara or Laidley's Ponds, a piece of intelligence at which I was
utterly confounded. I could not but reproach both him and Toonda for
having so deceived me; but the latter said he had been away a long time
and that there was plenty of grass when he left. Nadbuck, on the other
hand, said he derived his information from others, and only told me what
they told him. Be that as it may, it was impossible for me to remain in
such a place, and I therefore turned back towards the Darling, and
pitched my tents at its junction with the Williorara.

For three or four days prior to our arrival at Laidley's Ponds, the
upward course of the river had been somewhat to the west of north. The
course of Laidley's Ponds was exceedingly tortuous, but almost due west.
The natives explained to us that it served as a channel of communication
between two lakes that were on either side of it, called Minandichi and
Cawndilla. They stated that the former extended between the Darling and
the ranges, but that Cawndilla was to the westward at the termination of
Laidley's Ponds, by means of which it is filled with water every time the
Darling rose; but they assured me that the waters had not yet reached the
lake. It was nevertheless evident that we were in an angle, and our
position was anything but a favourable one. From the point where we had
now arrived the upward course of the Darling for 300 miles is to the
N.E., that which I was anxious to take, was to the W.N.W. It was evident,
therefore, that until every attempt to penetrate the interior in that
direction had proved impracticable, I should not have been justified in
pushing farther up the river. My hopes of finding the Williorara a
mountain stream had been wholly disappointed, and the intelligence both
Mr. Eyre and I had received of it from the Murray natives had turned out
to be false, for instead of finding it a medium by which to gain the
hills, I now ascertained that it had not a course of more than nine or
ten miles, and that it stood directly in my way. We were as yet ignorant
what the conduct of the natives towards us would be, having seen none or
very few who could have taken part in the dispute between Sir Thomas
Mitchell and the Williorara tribe in 1836. Expecting that they might be
hostilely disposed towards us, I hesitated leaving the camp, lest any
rupture should take place between my men and the natives during my
absence; much less could I think of fortifying the party in a position
from which, in the event of an attack, they would find it difficult to
retreat. I thought it best therefore to move the camp to a more distant
situation with as little delay as possible, and send Mr. Poole to visit
the ranges, and ascertain from their summit the probable character of the
N.W. interior.

Having come to this decision, I procured a guide to accompany that
officer to the hills, who accordingly started for them, with Mr. Stuart,
my draftsman, the morning after our arrival at the ponds. Some of the
natives had informed us that there was plenty of feed at the head of
Cawndilla Lake, a distance of seven or eight miles to the W.S.W.; but we
could not understand from them how far the waters of the Darling had
passed up the creek, although it was clear from what they said that they
had not yet reached Cawndilla. My instructions to Mr. Poole were framed
with a view to our removal from our present position nearer to the
ranges, and I therefore told him to cross the creek at the head of the
water, and if he should find grass there, to return to the camp, if not,
to continue his journey to the hills, and use every effort to find water
and feed. We had had a good deal of rain during the night of the 10th;
the morning of the 11th was hazy, with the wind at S.W., and there
appeared to be every prospect of continued wet. Under less urgent
circumstances, therefore, I should have detained Mr. Poole until the
weather cleared, but our movements at this time were involved in too much
uncertainty to admit of delay. I had hoped that the morning would have
cleared, but a light rain set in and continued for several days.

We had seen fewer natives on the line of the Darling than we had
expected; but as we approached Williorara they were in greater numbers.
Our tents were hardly pitched at that place, when, as I have observed, we
were visited by the local tribe, with their women and children, who sat
down at some little distance from the drays, and contented themselves
with watching our motions. I had tea made for the ladies, of which they
seemed to approve highly, and gave the youngsters two or three lumps of
sugar a-piece. The circumstance of the women and children thus venturing
to us, satisfied me that no present hostile movement was contemplated by
the men; but, not-withstanding that there was a seeming friendly feeling
towards us, there was a suspicious manner about them, which placed me
doubly on my guard, and caused me to doubt the issue of our protracted
sojourn in the neighbourhood.

I had several of the natives in my tent, and with Mr. Browne's assistance
questioned them closely as to the character of the country to the north
west, but we could gather nothing from what they said. They spoke of it
in terror, as a region into which they did not dare to venture, and gave
me dreadful accounts of the rocks and difficulties against which I should
have to contend. They agreed, however, in saying that there was both
water and grass at the lake; in consequence, I sent Mr. Browne with
Nadbuck to examine the locality on the morning of the 12th, as the
distance was not greater than from six to seven miles. He returned about
one P. M., and informed me that there was plenty of feed for the cattle,
and water also; but that the water was at least a mile and a half from
the grass, which was growing in tufts round the edge of the lake. It
appeared that the Williorara made a circuitous and extensive sweep and
entered Cawndilla on the opposite side to that of the river, so that he
had to cross a portion of the lake, and thus found that the floods had
not reached it. Mr. Browne also stated that the extent of the lake was
equal to that of Lake Victoria, but that it could at no time be more than
eighteen inches deep. It was indeed nothing more than a shallow basin
filled by river floods, and retaining them for a short time only. Immense
numbers of fish, however, pass into these temporary reservoirs, which may
thus be considered as a providential provision for the natives, whose
food changes with the season. At this period they subsisted on the
barilla root, a species of rush which they pound and make into cakes, and
some other vegetables; their greatest delicacy being the large
caterpillar (laabka), producing the gum-tree moth, an insect they procure
out of the ground at the foot of those trees, with long twigs like
osiers, having a small hook at the end. The twigs are sometimes from
eight to ten feet long, so deep do these insects bury themselves in the
ground.

Mr. Browne communicated with a tribe of natives, one of whom, a very tall
woman, as well as her child, was of a copper colour.

From the information he gave me of the neighbourhood of Cawndilla, I
determined, on the return of Mr. Poole, and in the event of his not
having found a better position, to move to that place; for it was evident
from his continued absence that he must have crossed the creek at a
distance from the lake, and not seeing any grass in its neighbourhood,
had pushed on to the hills. I was now anxious for his return, for we had
had almost ceaseless though not heavy rain since he left us. On the 12th,
the day he started, we had thunder; on the 13th it was showery, with wind
at N.W., and the thermometer at 62 degrees at 3 P. M., and the barometer
at 29.742; the boiling point of water being 211.25.

Assuming Sir Thomas Mitchell's data to be correct, my position here was
in long. 142 degrees 5 minutes E., and in lat. 32 degrees 25 minutes S.


CHAPTER IV.


TOONDA'S TRIBE--DISPOSITION OF THE NATIVES--ARRIVAL OF CAMBOLI--HIS
ENERGY OF CHARACTER--MR. POOLE'S RETURN--LEAVE THE DARLING--REMARKS ON
THAT RIVER--CAWNDILLA--THE OLD BOOCOLO--LEAVE THE CAMP FOR THE
HILLS--REACH A CREEK--WELLS--TOPAR'S MISCONDUCT--ASCEND THE
RANGES--RETURN HOMEWARDS--LEAVE CAWNDILLA WITH A PARTY--REACH
PARNARI--MOVE TO THE HILLS--JOURNEY TO N. WEST--HEAVY RAINS--RETURN TO
CAMP--MR. POOLE LEAVES--LEAVE THE RANGES--DESCENT TO THE PLAINS--MR.
POOLE'S RETURN--HIS REPORT--FLOOD'S CREEK--AQUATIC BIRDS--RANGES DIMINISH
IN HEIGHT.


Toonda left us on our arrival at this place, to go to his tribe at
Cawndilla, but returned the day Mr. Poole left us, with the lubras and
children belonging to it, and the natives now mustered round us to the
number of sixty-six. Nadbuck, who the reader will have observed was a
perfect lady's man, made fires for the women, and they were all treated
as our first visitors had been with a cup of tea and a lump of sugar.
These people could not have shewn a greater mark of confidence in us than
by this visit; but the circumstances under which we arrived amongst them,
the protection we had given to some of their tribe, and the kind
treatment we had adopted towards the natives generally, in some measure
accounted for this, nevertheless there was a certain restlessness amongst
the men that satisfied me they would not have hesitated in the
gratification of revenge if they could have mustered sufficiently strong,
or could have caught us unprepared.

It was clear that the natives still remembered the first visit the
Europeans had made to them, and its consequences, and that they were very
well disposed to retaliate. It was in this matter that Nadbuck's conduct
and representations were of essential service, for he did not hesitate to
tell them what they might expect if they appeared in arms. Mr. Poole was
short and stout like Sir Thomas Mitchell, and personally very much
resembled him; moreover, he wore a blue foraging cap, as, I believe, Sir
Thomas did; be that as it may, they took Mr. Poole for that officer, and
were exceedingly sulky, and Nadbuck informed us that they would certainly
spear him. It was necessary, therefore, to explain to them that he was
not the individual for whom they took him, and we could only allay their
feelings by the strongest assurances to that effect; for some time,
indeed, they were inclined to doubt what we said, but at length they
expressed great satisfaction, and to secure himself still more Mr. Poole
put on a straw hat. Nevertheless, there were manifestations of turbulence
amongst the younger men on several occasions, and they certainly
meditated, even though, for particular reasons, they refrained from any
act of violence.

The constant rain had made the ground in a sad state. There was scarcely
any stirring out of the tents into the tenacious clay of the flat in
which they were pitched; and the Darling, continuing to rise, overflowed
its banks, drove our cattle from their feed, and obliged us to send them
to a more distant point. In the midst of all this we were, on the 13th,
most agreeably surprised by the appearance of our friend Camboli, with
two other natives from Lake Victoria. Camboli brought despatches and
letters in reply to those I had sent from the lake. It is impossible to
describe the unaffected joy this poor native evinced on seeing us again.
He had travelled hard to overtake us, and his condition when he arrived,
as well as that of his companions proved that they had not spared
themselves; but neither of them shewed the same symptoms of fatigue as
Camboli. His thighs and ancles, and the calves of his legs were much
swollen, and he complained of severe pain in his back and loins; but he
was excited beyond measure, and sprang about with surprising activity
whilst his comrades fell fast asleep. "Papung," he exclaimed, meaning
paper or letters. "I bring papung to Boocolo," meaning me; "to Sacoback,"
meaning Doctor Browne; "and Mr. Poole, from Gobbernor," the Governor;
"Hugomattin," Mr. Eyre; "Merilli," Mr. Scott of Moorundi; "and Bullocky
Bob. Papung Gobbernor, Boocolo, Hugomattin." Nothing could stop him, nor
would he sit still for a moment. There were, at the fire near the tents,
a number of the young men of the Williorara tribe; and it would appear,
from what occurred, that they were talking about us in no friendly
strain. Certain it is that they made some remark which highly offended
our lately arrived envoy, for he suddenly sprang upon his feet, and,
seizing a carabine, shook it at them in defiance, and, pointing to the
tents, again shook it with all the energy and fearlessness of a savage,
and he afterwards told us that the natives were "murry saucy." The scene
was of a kind that is seldom if ever witnessed in civilized life.

The reader may be assured we took good care of him and his companions;
but his excitement continued, even after he had laid down to sleep; yet,
he was the first man up on the following morning, to cut a canoe for Mr.
Browne, who wished to cross the river, with a young lad of the name of
Topar, a native of the place, who had been recommended to me by Mr. Eyre,
a fine handsome young man, about eighteen years of age, and exceedingly
prepossessing in appearance; but I am sorry to say with very few good
qualities. He was a boy about eight when Sir Thomas Mitchell visited the
neighbourhood, and, with his mother, was present at the unfortunate
misunderstanding between his men and the natives on that occasion.

The bark was not in a fit state to be stripped from the tree, so that
Camboli had a fatiguing task, but he got the canoe ready in sufficient
time for Mr. Browne to cross the river and visit Sir Thomas Mitchell's
last camp, which I had intended doing myself, in order to connect it with
my own, if circumstances had not, at that time, prevented me.

Mr. Poole returned on the 15th, after an absence of four days and a half.
He informed me that he had crossed the creek, as I had imagined, where
there was little or no vegetation in its vicinity. He then took up a
north-west course for the hills, and rode over flats of polygonum for
nine miles, when he crossed the bed of a large lagoon; arriving at a
round hill, somewhat detached from the main range, at half-past one, and
searched about for water, but found none, neither could the native point
out any to him. He therefore descended to the plains, and encamped.

On the following morning Mr. Poole again crossed the hill he had ascended
the day before, but at half-past one changed his course for a high peak
on the same range, on the summit of which he arrived at 2 p.m.; but the
day was unfavourable, and the bearings from it consequently uncertain.
The following morning being clear he again ascended the hill, and took
the following bearings:--To the point of a distant range N. 54 degrees
W.; to a very distant cone, 00 or due north; to a peak in a distant
range, S. 40 degrees W.; to a lake, S. 20 degrees W.; and to another
distant range, S. 65 degrees W. The country between the ranges Mr. Poole
had ascended and the more distant ones, appeared to be flat, and covered
with brush and speargrass. There was an appearance of water between the
ranges, and they looked like islands in an immense lake. He did not think
he could have been deceived by the effect of mirage; but felt satisfied,
according to his own judgment, that he had seen a large body of water to
the N.W. Mr. Poole did not succeed in finding any convenient place to
which to remove the party, and his guide persisting in his statement that
there was no water in the hills, he thought it better to return to the
camp.

However doubtful I might have been as to the reality of the existence of
water in the direction to which Mr. Poole referred, it was clear that
there were other and loftier ranges beyond those visible from the river.
Taking everything into consideration, I determined on moving the camp to
Cawndilla, and on proceeding myself to the north-west as soon as I should
have established it in a secure place.

I was employed on the 16th in reporting our progress to the Governor, as
Nadbuck and Camboli were to leave us in the afternoon on their return to
Lake Victoria. Both were exceedingly impatient to commence their journey,
but when I came out with the bag old Nadbuck evinced great emotion and
sorrow, nor could we look on the departure of our old and tried guide
without regret. He had really served us well and faithfully, and if he
had anything to do in propagating the several reports by which we had
been deceived in our progress up the Darling, I believe it was with a
view to prevent our going into a country from which he thought we should
never return. We rewarded him as he deserved, and sent both him and his
companions away with provisions sufficient to last them during the
greater part of their journey, but we afterwards learnt that with the
improvident generosity of the savage, they had appointed to meet a number
of their friends in the bush, and consumed their whole supply before
sunset.

The weather had cleared, and as we were enabled to connect the Darling
with the hilly country, I directed Mr. Poole to measure a base line from
a point at the back of our camp to the westward. This base line ran along
the sandy ridge above the flats of Laidley's Ponds towards Cawndilla, so
that we had no detention, but left the Darling on the 17th.

The drays started early in the forenoon, but I remained until two, to
take some lunars with Mr. Browne. At that hour we rode along the dray
tracks, and at six miles descended into the bed of the lake, and crossing
a portion of it arrived at the camp at half-past five. The floods were
just crossing the dray tracks as we passed, and gradually advancing into
the basin. The ground was cracked and marked with narrow but deep
fissures into which the waters fell as they rolled onwards, and it was
really surprising to see the immense quantity these chasms required to
fill them.

Having taken leave of the Darling, it may be as well that I should make a
few general remarks upon it. The reader will have observed from my
description, that the scenery on the banks is picturesque and cheerful,
that its trees though of smaller size than those on the Murray, are more
graceful and have a denser foliage and more drooping habit, and that the
flats contiguous to the stream are abundantly grassy. I have described
the river as I found it, but I would not have the reader suppose that it
always presents the same luxuriant appearance, for not many months before
this period my persevering friend Mr. Eyre, on a journey up its banks,
could hardly find grass sufficient for his horses. There was not a blade
of vegetation on the flats, but little water in the river, and the whole
scenery wore a most barren appearance. Countries, however, the summer
heat of which is so excessive, as in Australia, are always subject to
such changes, nor is it any argument against their soil, that it should
at one season of the year look bare and herbless. That part of the
Darling between Laidley's Ponds and its junction with the Murray, a
distance of about 100 miles in a direct line, had not been previously
explored, nor had I time to lay it regularly down. I should say from the
appearance of its channel that it is seldom very deep, frequently dry at
intervals, and that its floods are uncertain, sudden, and very temporary.
That they rise rapidly may be implied from the fact that in two days the
floods we witnessed rose more than nine feet, and that they come from the
higher branches of the river there can be no doubt, since the Darling has
no tributary between Laidley's Ponds and Fort Bourke. I have no doubt but
the whole line of the river will sooner or later be occupied, and that
both its soil and climate will be found to suit the purpose both of the
grazier and the agriculturist. Be that as it may, I regretted abandoning
it, for I felt assured that in doing so our difficulties and trials would
commence.

Our camp at Cawndilla was on the right bank of the Williorara, about half
a mile above where it enters the lake. Without intending it, we
dispossessed the natives of the ground which they had occupied before our
arrival, but they were not offended. Our tents stood on a sand bank close
to the creek, and was shaded by gum-trees and banksias; behind us to the
S.W. there were extensive open plains, and along the edge of the basin of
Cawndilla, as well as to some distance in its bed, there was an abundance
of feed for our cattle: the locality would be of great value as a station
if it were near the located districts of South Australia.

The term Boocolo is I believe generally given to the chief or elder of
the tribe, and thus was applied by the natives to me, as chief of the
party. The boocolo of the Cawndilla tribe was an old man with grey hairs
and rather sharp features, below the ordinary stature, but well made and
active. Of all the race with whom I have communicated, his manners were
the most pleasing. There was a polish in them, a freedom and grace that
would have befitted a drawing-room. It was his wont to visit my tent
every day at noon, and to sleep during the heat; but he invariably asked
permission to do this before he composed himself to rest, and generally
laid down at my feet. Differing from the majority of the natives, he
never asked for anything, and although present during our meals kept away
from the table. If offered anything he received it with becoming dignity,
and partook of it without displaying that greedy voracity which the
natives generally exhibit over their meals. He was a man, I should say,
in intellect and feeling greatly in advance of his fellows. We all became
exceedingly partial to this old man, and placed every confidence in him;
although, as he did not understand the language of the Murray natives, we
gained little information from him as to the remote country.

The boocolo of Cawndilla had two sons; but as the circumstances under
which they were more particularly brought forward occurred on the return
of the expedition from the interior, I shall not mention them here; but
will conclude these remarks by describing an event that took place the
day after our removal from the Darling. The men who had been out chaining
left the flags standing after their work, and came to the camp. When Mr.
Poole went out the next morning he found that one of them had been taken
away. The natives, when charged with the theft, stoutly denied it, and
said that it had been stolen by one of the Darling tribe in returning to
the river. I therefore directed him, as he generally superintended the
issue of presents and provisions to the natives, to stop all further
supplies. The old boocolo failed in his endeavours to recover the flag,
and the natives who visited the camp were evidently under restraint. On
the following day the boocolo came to my tent, and I spoke angrily to
him. "Why," I asked, "has the black fellow taken that which did not
belong to him? I do not take anything from you. I do not kill your
kangaroos or take your fish." The old man was certainly much annoyed, and
went out of the tent to our fire, at which there were several natives
with whom he had an earnest conversation; this terminated by two of them
starting for the Darling, from whence, on the following day, they brought
back the flag and staff, which they said had been taken by three of the
Darling natives as they had stated already. Probably such was the case,
and we admitted the excuse.

The base line was completed on the 19th, and measured six miles. I was
anxious to have made it of greater length, but the ground would not admit
of it. The angles were necessarily very acute; but the bearings were
frequently repeated, and found to agree. I was the less anxious on the
point because my intention was to check any error by another line as soon
as I could.

The position we had taken up was a very favourable one, since being on
the right or northern bank of the creek, we were, by the flooding of the
lake, cut off from the Darling natives. I now therefore determined on
making an excursion into the interior to the N.W., to examine the ranges
seen by Mr. Poole, and to ascertain if, as he supposed, there was a body
of water to the westward of them. With this view I engaged Topar to
accompany us, and on the 21st left the camp, with Mr. Browne, Flood, and
Morgan, taking the light cart with our provisions and some water-casks.
During the recent rains the weather had been very cold, but excessive
heat succeeded it. The day before we started the thermometer rose as high
as 112 degrees during a violent hot wind; and certainly if the following
day had been equally warm we could not have proceeded on our journey.
Fortunately for us, however, the wind shifted to the S.W. during the
night, and the morning was cool and refreshing. I should have commenced
this trip two or three days earlier, but on the 20th we were surprised by
the reappearance of old Nadbuck, who had turned back with some natives he
met on the way to our camp, with letters from Moorundi. The old man was
really overjoyed to see us again. He said he had left Camboli well
advanced on his journey, and that he would have reached Lake Victoria
before he (Nadbuck) had reached us. Some of the letters he brought
requiring answers, I was unable to arrange for my intended departure on
the 19th. The 20th being a day of excessive heat, we could not have
ventured abroad; but as I have stated, on the 21st we commenced the
journey under more favourable circumstances than we had anticipated. The
old boocolo took leave of Mr. Browne and myself, according, I suppose, to
the custom of his people, by placing his hands on our shoulders and
bending his head so as to touch our breasts; in doing which he shed
tears. Topar, seated on the cart, was followed by his mother who never
expected to see him again. I had given Topar a blanket, which he now gave
to his parent, and thus set off with us as naked as he was born. I
mention this the more readily because I have much to detail to his
discredit, and therefore in justice, I think, I am bound to record
anything to his advantage. At a quarter of a mile from the camp we
crossed the little sand hill which separates the two basins of Cawndilla
and Minandichi, from which we descended into the flats of the latter, but
at a mile rose, after crossing a small creek, to the level of the great
plains extending between us and the ranges. Our first course over these
plains was on a bearing of 157 degrees to the west of south, or N.N.W.
nearly. They were partly covered by brush and partly open; the soil was a
mixture of clay and sand, and in many places they resembled, not only in
that but in their productions, the plains of Adelaide. A good deal of
grass was growing on them in widely distributed tufts, but mixed with
salsolaceous plants. The trees consisted of a new species of casuarina, a
new caparis, with some hakea, and several species of very pretty and
fragrant flowering shrubs. At twelve miles we changed our course to 135
degrees to the west of south, or N.W., and kept upon it for the remainder
of the day, direct for a prominent hill in the ranges before us.
[Note 7. Coonbaralba Station, No. 2.] The hills Mr. Poole had visited then
bore a few degrees to the east of north, distant from twelve to fourteen
miles, and were much lower than those towards which we were going,
continuing northwards. The country as we advanced became more open and
barren. We traversed plains covered with atriplex and rhagodiae, in the
midst of which there were large bare patches of red clay. In these rain
water lodges, but being exceedingly shallow they soon dry up and
their surfaces become cracked and blistered. From the point at which
we changed our course the ground gradually rose, and at 26 miles we
ascended a small sand hill with a little grass growing upon it.
From this hill we descended into and crossed a broad dry creek
with a gravelly bed, and as its course lay directly parallel to our own,
we kept in the shade of the gum-trees that were growing along its banks.
At about four miles beyond this point Topar called out to us to stop near
a native well he then shewed us, for which we might in vain have hunted.
From this we got a scanty supply of bad water, after some trouble in
cleaning and clearing it, insomuch that we were obliged to bale it out
frequently during the night to obtain water for our horses. This creek,
like others, was marked by a line of gum-trees on either side; and from
the pure and clean gravel in its bed, I was led to infer that it was
subject to sudden floods. We could trace the line of trees upon it
running upwards to the N.W. close up to the foot of the ranges, and down
southwards, until the channel seemed to be lost in the extensive flats of
that depressed region.

Topar called this spot "Murnco Murnco." As the horses had fared
indifferently during our stay, and he assured us there was a finer well
higher up the creek, we pushed on at an early hour the next morning,
keeping on the proper right bank of the creek, and having an open barren
country to the south, with an apparent dip to the south-west; to our
left, some undulations already noticed by us, assumed more the shape of
hills. The surface was in many places covered with small fragments of
white quartz, which together with a conglomerate rock cropped out of the
ground where it was more elevated. There was nothing green to meet the
eye, except the little grass in the bed of the creek itself, and a small
quantity on the plains.

At two miles on our former bearing Topar stopped close to another well,
but it was dry and worthless; we therefore pushed on to the next, and
after removing a quantity of rubbish, found a sufficiency of water both
for ourselves and the horses, but it was bitter to the taste, and when
boiled was as black as ink from the decoction of gum leaves; the water
being evidently the partial and surface drainage from the hills. We
stopped here however to breakfast. Whilst so employed, Topar's quick and
watchful eye caught sight of some smoke rising from the bed of the creek
about a mile above us. He was now all impatience to be off, to overtake
the party who had kindled it. Nothing could exceed his vehement
impetuosity and impatience, but this was of no avail, as the natives who
had probably seen our approach, kept in front of us and avoided a
meeting. We rode for five miles on our original bearing of 135 degrees to
the west of north, or N.W. the direct bearing of the hill for which we
were making, Coonbaralba. At five miles Topar insisted on crossing the
creek, and led us over the plains on a bearing of 157 degrees to the west
of north, thus changing his purpose altogether. He assigned as a reason
that there was no water in the creek higher up, and that we must go to
another place where there was some. I was somewhat reluctant to consent
to this, but at length gave way to him; we had not however gone more than
two and a half miles, when he again caught sight of smoke due west of us,
and was as earnest in his desire to return to the creek as he had been to
leave it. Being myself anxious to communicate with the natives I now the
more readily yielded to his entreaties. Where we came upon it there was a
quantity of grass in its bed, but although we saw the fire at which they
had been, the natives again escaped us. Mr. Browne and Topar ran their
track up the creek, and soon reached a hut opposite to which there was a
well. On ascending a little from its bed they discovered a small pool of
water in the centre of a watercourse joining the main branch hereabouts
from the hills. Round this little pool there was an unusual verdure. From
this point we continued to trace the creek upwards, keeping it in sight;
but the ground was so stony and rough, and the brush approached so close
to the banks that I descended into its bed, and halted at sunset after a
fatiguing day's journey without water, about which we did not much care;
the horses having had a good drink not long before and their feed being
good, the want of water was not much felt by them. Topar wished to go on
to some other water at which he expected to find the natives, and did not
hesitate for a moment in thus contradicting his former assertion. This
however I would not allow him to do alone, but Mr. Browne good-naturedly
walked with him up the creek, and at less than a mile came up on a long
and beautiful pond He informed me that it was serpentine in shape and
more than eighty yards long, but as there was no grass in its
neighbourhood I did not move to it. It was evident that Topar had
intended leading us past this water, and it was owing to his anxiety to
see the natives that we had now discovered it.

On the following morning I determined to take the direction of our
movements on myself, and after we had breakfasted at the long water-hole,
struck across the plains, and took up a course of 142 degrees to the west
of south for a round hill which I proposed ascending. Topar seeing us
determined, got into a state of alarm almost bordering on frenzy; he kept
shouting out "kerno, kerno," "rocks, rocks," and insisted that we should
all be killed. This however had no effect on us, and we continued to move
towards a spur, the ascent of which appeared to be less difficult than
any other point of the hills. We reached its base at 10 a.m., and had
little trouble in taking the cart up. On gaining the top of the first
rise, we descended into and crossed a valley, and ascending the opposite
side found ourselves on the summit of the range, the surface being much
less broken than might have been anticipated, insomuch that we had every
hope that our progress amongst the hills would be comparatively easy; but
in pushing for the one I wished to ascend, our advance was checked by a
deep ravine, and I was obliged to turn towards another hill of nearly
equal height on our left. We descended without much difficulty into a
contiguous valley, but the ascent on the opposite side was too rough for
the cart. was the erring daughter entirely forgotten? No, no. Son John,
indeed, took good care to hinder any amicable feelings of relapse to
intrude upon his father's resolution. But the old man was not easy,
nevertheless; often thought of poor Maria; and could not clearly
make out who had forged the letter.
Had it not been for that wicked brother John, a meeting--an explanation--a
reconciliation--would undoubtedly have taken place: but he was shrewd
enough to keep them asunder, and did not take much to heart his father's
altered spirits and breaking state of health: his will and wealth were
seemingly all the nearer.

And what of that poor stricken mother? Wasted to a shadow, feverish and
weak, she lay for weeks, counting the dreary hours, till she heard of
dear, though unnatural, Maria. Oh! the heartless caitiff, John! will
he thus watch his mother die by inches, when one true word from his lips
could restore her to tranquillity and health? Yes, he would--he did--the
wretch! She gradually pined--waned--wasted; the candle of her life burnt
down into the hollow socket--glimmering awhile--flared and reeled,
and then--one night, quietly and suddenly--went out! She entered on the
world of spirits, where all secrets show revealed; and there she read,
almost before she died--whilst yet the black curtain of eternity was
gradually rising to receive her--the innocence of good Maria, and the
deep-stained villany of John. Her last words--uttered supernaturally
from her quiescence, with the fervour of a visionary whose ken is
more than mortal--were "Look, look, Thomas!

--beware of John. O poor, poor innocent outcast!--O rich, rich heart
of love--Maria! my Mari--a--!"

CHAPTER X.

HOW TO HELP ONE'S SELF.

Where then did they live, and how--that noble and calumniated couple?
They had done no wrong, nor even, as it seems to us, the semblance
of wrong, unless it be by having acquiesced in the foolishness of secresy,
and thus aided the contrivance of false witness; for aught else, their
only social error had been lack of business caution among business
men.
Feeling generously themselves, they gave others credit for the
like good feeling; acting upon honourable impulse, they believed that
other men would act so too. Heart was the hindrance in their way;--too
much sensitiveness towards all about them; too swift a surrender
of the judgment to the affections: too imprudent a reliance upon other
men of the world; though, when they trusted to a father's love, and a
brother's honesty, prudence herself might have almost been dispensed
with.
Machinations of the wicked and the shrewd hemmed them in to their un-doing:
and really, they, children more or less of affluent homes, born and bred
in plenty, who had moved all their lives long in circles of comparative
wealth and wastefulness, now seemed likely to come to the galling want
of necessary sustenance. Was it not to teach them deeper feeling for the
poor, if ever God again should give them riches? Was it not, by poverty,
to try those hearts which had passed so blamelessly through all the ordeals
and temptations of wealth, in order that they worthily might wear the
double crown given only to such as remain unhardened by prosperity,
unembittered by adversity? Was it not to discipline our warm Maria's love,
and to chasten her Henry's very gentlemanly pride into the due Christian
proportions--self-respect with self-humiliation? Was it not, chiefest
and best, to school their hearts for heaven, and, by feeding them on
miseries and wrongs a little while, to fix their affections on things
above rather than on things of this world? Yes: Providence has many ends
in view, and they all tend consistently to one great focus--the ultimate
advantage of the good by means of the confusion of the wicked.

Meanwhile came trouble on apace. Henry Clements justly felt aggrieved,
insulted; and the sentiment of pride, improper only from excess,
determined him to make no more advances: all that man could do, that is,
which a gentleman ought to do, he had done; but letters and visits proved
equally unavailing. He had come to the resolution that he would
make no more efforts himself, nor scarcely let Maria make any. As for
her, poor soul! she was now in grievous tribulation, with sad,
sufficient reason for it too; seeing that, in addition to her father's
anger, still protracted--in addition to that vile forgery imputed to her
craft, and whereof she had been made the guilty victim--in addition to
their own soon pressing money-wants, and that heartless fraud of John's
against her husband's little all (though she counted of it only as a
luckless speculation)--she had just become acquainted, through the
public prints, of her dear good mother's death, even before she had heard
of any illness. What bitter pangs were there for her, poor child!
That she should have lost that mother just then, without forgiveness, without
blessing--whilst all was unexplained, and their whole conduct of
affections without guile, wore the hideous mask of base, undutiful
contrivance! Cheer up, Maria; cheer up! only in this bad world can
innocence be sullied with a doubt: cheer up! the spirit of that
mother whom you loved on earth knows it well already; learned it while
yet she was leaving the body of her death: cheer up!

she is still near you both--dear children of affliction and affection!
and God has commissioned her for good to be your ministering angel.

With reference to means of living, they appeared limited at once to a
little ready money, and a few personal chattels and trinkets; without so
much as one pound of capital to back the young house-keepers, or a
shilling's-worth of interest or dividend or earnings coming in for weekly
bills. Clements had been utterly confounded in all his economical
arrangements by that sudden bitter breach of trust; and, albeit (as we
have hinted), his aim in marriage was not money; still, without much of
worldly calculation, he might prudently have looked for some provision
on Maria's part at least equal to his own: in fact, the fond young couple
had reasonably set their hearts upon that golden mean--four hundred
a-year to begin with. Now, however, by two fell swoops--brother John's
dishonesty and Sir Thomas's resolve of disinheritance--all this rational
and moderate expectation had been dashed to atoms; and the cottage of
contented competence appeared but as a castle in the clouds--a mere
airy matter of undiluted moonshine. Thus, when that happiest of honeymoons
had dwindled down the hundred-pound bank-note (shrewd John's well-expended
bait) to the fractional part of a ten, and our newly-married pair
came to put together their united resources, wherewithal to travel
through the world, they could muster but very little:--considering, too,
the future, and the promise of an early increase to provide for,
forty-seven pounds was not quite a fortune; and a few articles of jewellery
did not much increase it.

We need not imagine that Henry calmly acquiesced without a struggle in
the roguish fraud which had impoverished him; but, notwithstanding all
his best endeavours, he found, to his dismay, that the case was
irremediable: the transfer-books, indeed, were evidence; and equity
would give credit for the trust: but that the "Independent bank"
had failed was a simple fact; and so long as John stood ready to
swear he had invested in it, there was an end to the business.

Be sure, shrewd Jack was not likely to leave any thing dubious or
unsatisfactory in the affair. Austral papers were easily got at now, cheap
as whitey-brown; and for any help the law could give him, poor Henry
Clements might as well engage the wind-raising services of a Lapland
witch.

He must put his shoulder to the wheel without delay; manifestly, his
profession of the law, however unlucrative till now, must be the mighty
lever that should raise him quickly to the summit of opulence and fame:
and he vigorously set to work, as the briefless are forced to do,
inditing a new law-book, which should lift him high in honour with
those magnates on the bench; being, as he was, a court-counsel, not
a chamber one, an eloquent pleader too (if the world would only
give him a hearing), he unluckily took for his thesis the questionable
'_Doctrine of Defence_;' combating magnanimously on the loftiest
moral grounds all manner of received opinions, time-honoured fictions,
legitimated quibbles, and other things which (as he was pleased to
put it) "render the majesty of the law ridiculous to the ears of
common sense, and iniquitous in the sight of Christian judgment."

Rash youth! forensic Quixote! better had you plodded on, without this extra
industry and skill, in the hopeless idleness and solitude of your Temple
garret--better had you burnt your wig and gown outright, with all the airy
briefs to come that fluttered round them, than have owned yourself the
author of that heretical piece of moral mawkishness--'_The Doctrine of
Defence_, by Henry Clements.'
He had with difficulty found a publisher--a chilling incident enough in
itself, considering an author's feelings for his book-child; and when
found, the scarcely satisfactory arrangement was insisted on, of mutual
participation in profit and loss: in other parlance, the bookseller
pocketing the first, and the author unpocketing the second. Thus it came
to pass, that after three months' toil and enormous collation of
cases--after extravagant indulgence of the most ardent hopes--glory,
good, and gold, consequent instantaneously on this happy
publication--after reasonably expecting that judges would quote it
in their ermine, and sergeants consult it in their silk--that London
would be startled by the event from the humdrum of its ordinary
routine--and the wondering world applaud the name of Henry Clements--O,
heart-sickening reality!

what was the result of his exertions?

"So, that puppy Clements has taken upon himself to put us all to school
about whom we may defend, and how, I see---- Hang the fellow's impudence!"
grunted a fat Old Bailey counsel to his peers, well aware that the luckless
author sat nervously within ear-shot.

"I know whose junior that modest swain shall never be;" simpered Sergeant
Tiffin.

"The fellow's done for himself," was the simultaneous verdict of a well-wigged
band of brothers. And what else they might have added in their charity
poor Clements never knew, for he crept away to his garret, stricken
with disappointment. There he must encounter other trials of the heart:
two or three reviews and newspapers lay upon his table, just sent in by
the bookseller, as per order; for they contained, in spirit-stirring
print, notices of '_Clements on Defence_.' Unluckily for his present peace
of mind, poor fellow, the periodicals in question were none of the
humaner sort; no kindly encouraging '_Literary Register_,' no soft-spoken
'_Courtier_,' no patient '_Investigator_,' no generously-indulgent
'_Critical Gazette_:' these more amiable journals would be slower in the
field--some six weeks hence, perhaps, creeping on with philanthropic
sloth: but fiercer prints, which dart hebdomadal wrath at every
trembling seeker of their parsimonious praise, had whipt up their
malice to deliver the first swift blow against our hapless neophyte
in print.

Thus, when, with nervous preboding, Henry took up the '_Watchman_,' in
eager hope for favour to his poor dear book, he turned quite sick at heart
to find the lying verdict run as follows, though the small type in which
it spake was a comfort too:

"A careless compilation of insignificant cases, clumsily thrown together,
and calculated to set its author high indeed upon the rolls of fame;
proving to the world that a Mr.

Henry Clements can reason very feebly; that his premises are habitually
false; and that presumptuous preaching is the natural accompaniment of
extreme ignorance."
By all that worries man, but this was too bad: "careless?"--every word
had been a care to him: "clumsy?"--in composition it was Addison's
own self: "feeble?"--if he was good for any thing, he was good for
logic:

"false?"--not one premise but stood on adamant, not one conclusion but
it was fixed as fate: "presumptuous?"--it was bold and masculine,
certainly, but humble too; here and there almost deferential:
"ignorant?"--ye powers that live in looks, testify by thousands how
Clements had been studying!--And yet this most lying sentence, a congeries
or sorites of untruths, hastily penned by some dyspeptic scribe, who
perhaps had barely dipped into the book, was at the moment circulating
in every library of the kingdom, proclaiming our poor barrister a
fool!

O, thou watchful scribe, forbear! for it is cowardly--they cannot
smite again: forbear! for it is cruel--the hearts of wife and mother and
lover ache upon your idle words: forbear! it is unreasonable--for
often-times a word would prove that Rhadamanthus' self is wrong: forbear,
calumnious scribe! and heed the harms you do, when you rob some poor
struggler of his character for sense, and make the bread of the hungry
to fail.

'_The Corinthian_,' another snarling watch-dog in the courts of the
temple of Fame, followed instinctively the same injurious wake: it was
a leisurely sarcastic anatomization, quite enough to blight any young
candidate's prospects, supposing that mankind respected such a verdict;
if not to make him cut his throat, granting that the victim should be
sensitive as Keats. The generous review in question may be judged of by
its first line and last sentence; as Hercules from his advancing foot,
or Cuvier's Megatherium from the relics of its great toe. Thus it
commenced:

"When a disappointed man, intolerant of fortune," &c., &c., and it wound
up many stinging observations with this grateful climax following:

"We trust we have now said enough to prove that if a man will be bold
enough to 'depreciate censure,'--will attack what he is pleased to
consider abuses, however countenanced by high authority--and will obtrude
his literary eloquence into our solemn courts of law, he deserves--what
does he not deserve?--to be addressed henceforth by a name suggestive
at once of ignorance, presumption, and conceit, as Mr. Henry Clements."

Now, will it be believed that a trivial error of the press mainly
conduced to occasion this hostility? Our poor author had been weak
enough to "deprecate censure" in his penny-wise humility, and the printer
had negatived his meaning as above: "_hinc illæ lachrymæ_." Oh, but how
the ragged tooth of calumny gnawed his very heart!

'_The Legal Recorder_' was another of those early unfavourables; being
as a matter of course adverse too, and not very disinterestedly either:
for it played the exalted part of pet puffer to a rival publisher, who
wanted no other reason for condemning this book of Mr. Clements than
that it came from the legal officina of an opponent in his trade. There
was another paper or two, but Clements felt so utterly disheartened that
he did not dare to look at them. I wish he had; they would have comforted
him, pouring balm upon his wounded pride by their kind and cordial praises:
but ill-luck ruled the hour, so he burnt them forthwith, and lost much
literary comforting.

To sauce up all this pleasantry with a smack of concreted pleasure
itself, the last and only remaining document upon the table was a
civil note from Mr.

Wormwood, publisher and bookseller, enclosing the following items
with his compliments:

To 500 copies '_Doctrine of Defence_,' £124 3 To advertising ditto, 25 0
To 10 per cent. on sales, &c.

Supplied to author, 12 copies, &c.
Given to periodicals for review, 15 copies, &c.

Against all which was the solitary offset of "three copies sold;" leaving
as our Henry's _share_ of now certain loss a matter of eighty
pounds: which, between ourselves, was only a very little more than
the whole cost of that untoward publication.

Mr. Wormwood hoped to hear from Mr. Clements at his earliest convenience,
as a certain sum was to be made up on a certain day, and the book-trade
never had been at a lower ebb, and prompt payment would be esteemed a
great accommodation, and--all that stereotyped sort of thing.

Poor Clements--reviled author, ruined lawyer, almost reckless wight--here
was an extinguisher indeed to the morning's brilliant hopes!
What an overwhelming debt to that ill-used couple in their altered
circumstances! How entirely by his own strong effort had he swamped
his legal expectations! Just as a man who cannot swim splashes himself
into certain suffocation; whereas, if he would but lie quite still,
he was certain to have floated on as safe as cork.

Well: to cut a long story short, our unlucky author found that he must pay,
and pay forthwith, or incur a lawyer's bill for his debt to Mr.
Wormwood: so he gave up his Temple garret, sold his books, nicknacks, and
superfluous habiliments, added to the proceeds their forty pounds of
capital, and a neck-chain of Maria's; and, at tremendous sacrifices, found
himself once more out of danger, because out of debt. But it was a bad
prospect truly for the future--ay, and for the present too; a few pounds
left would soon be gone--and then dear Maria's confinement was approaching,
and a hundred wants and needs, little and great:
accordingly, they made all haste to get rid of their suburban dwelling
in the City Road, collected their few valuables remaining, and retreated
with all economical speed to a humble lodging in a cheap back street at
Islington.
That little parlor was a palace of love: in the midst of her deep
sorrow, sweet Maria never failed of her amiable charities--nay, she
was even cheerful, hopeful--happy, and rendering happy: a thousand
times a day had Henry cause to bless his "wedded angel." And, showing
his love by more than words, he resolutely set about another literary
enterprise, anonymous this time for very fear's sake; but Providence
saw fit to bless his efforts with success. He wrote a tragedy, a
clever and a good one too; though '_The Watchman_' did sneer about
"modern Shakspeares," and '_The Corinthian_,' pouncing on some
trifling fault, pounded it with would-be giant force: nevertheless,
for it was a famous English theme, he luckily got them to accept
it at the Haymarket, and '_Boadicea_' drew full houses; so the
author had his due ninth night, and pocketed, instead of fame (for
he grimly kept his secret) enough to enable him to print his tragedy
for private satisfaction; and that piece of vanity accomplished,
he still found himself seven pounds before-hand with the world.Whilst
I was thus employed, Mr. Poole and Mr. Stuart were on the ranges, and
both, as well as the men generally, continued in good health; but I was
exceedingly anxious about Mr. Browne, who had a low fever on him, and was
just then incapable of much fatigue; nevertheless he begged so hard to be
permitted to accompany me on my contemplated journey, that I was obliged
to yield.

I had been satisfied from the appearance of the Williorara, that it was
nothing more than a channel of communication between the lakes Cawndilla
and Minandechi and the Darling, as the Rufus and Hawker respectively
connect Lakes Victoria and Bonney with the Murray, and I felt assured
that as soon as we should leave the former river, our difficulties as
regards the supply of water for our cattle would commence, and that
although we were going amongst hills of 1500 or 2000 feet elevation, we
should still suffer from the want of that indispensable element. Many of
my readers, judging from their knowledge of an English climate, and
living perhaps under hills of less elevation than those I have mentioned,
from which a rippling stream may pass their very door, will hardly
understand this; but the mountains of south-east Australia bear no
resemblance to the moss-covered mountains of Europe. There that spongy
vegetation retains the water to give it out by degrees, but the rain that
falls on the Australian hills runs off at once, and hence the terrific
floods to which their creeks are subject. In the barren and stony ranges
through which I had now to force my way, no spring was to be found.
During heavy rains, indeed, the torrents are fierce, and the waters must
spread over the plains into which they descend for many miles; but such
effects disappear with their cause; a few detached pools only remain,
that are fed for a time by under drainage, which soon failing, the
thirsty sun completes his work, and leaves that proscribed region--a
desert.

Fully satisfied then that the greatest obstacle to the progress of the
Expedition would be the want of water, and that it would only be by long
and laborious search that we should succeed in gaining the interior, I
determined on taking as much as I could on my proposed journey, and with
a view to gaining more time for examining the country, I had a tank
constructed, which I purposed to send a day or two in advance.

The little pond of which I have spoken at the head of the pass, had near
it a beautiful clump of acacias of a species entirely new to us. It was a
pretty graceful tree, and threw a deep shade on the ground; but with the
exception of these and a few gum-trees the vicinity was clear and open.
Our position in the creek on the contrary was close and confined. Heavy
gusts of wind were constantly sweeping the valley, and filling the air
with sand, and the flies were so numerous and troublesome that they were
a preventative to all work. I determined, therefore, before Mr. Browne
and I should start for the interior, to remove the camp to the upper part
of the glen. On the 4th we struck our tents and again pitched them close
to the acacias. Early on the morning of the 5th, I sent Flood with Lewis
and Sullivan, having the cart full of water, to preserve a certain course
until I should overtake them, being myself detained in camp with Mr.
Browne, in consequence of the arrival of several natives from whom we
hoped to glean some information; but in this we were disappointed. Toonda
had continued with us as far as "Parnari;" but on our moving up higher
into the hills, his heart failed him, and he returned to Cawndilla.

At eleven, Mr. Browne and I took leave of Mr. Poole, and pursuing a
course of 140 degrees to the west of south, rode on to overtake the cart.
At about four miles from the camp we crossed a small ironstone range,
from which we saw Flood and his party nearly at the foot of the hill on
which I had directed him to move, and at which I intended to cross the
ranges if the place was favourable. In this, however, we were
disappointed, for the hills were too rugged, although of no great breadth
or height. We were consequently obliged to turn to the south, and in
going over the rough uneven ground, had the misfortune to burst our tank.
I therefore desired Lewis to stop, and gave the horses as much water as
they would drink, still leaving a considerable quantity in the tank, of
which I hoped we might yet avail ourselves. Although we had found it
impracticable to cross the ranges at the proposed point, Mr. Browne and I
had managed to scramble up the most elevated part of them. We appeared
still to be amidst broken stony hills, from which there was no visible
outlet. There was a line of gum-trees, however, in a valley to the
southwest of us, as if growing on the side of a creek that would in such
case be tributary to the main creek on which our tents were pitched, and
we hoped, by running along the base of the hills to the south and turning
into the valley, to force our way onwards. At about three and a half
miles our anticipations were verified by our arriving opposite to an
opening leading northwards into the hills. This proved to be the valley
we had noticed. A line of gum-trees marked the course of a small creek,
which passing behind a little hill at the entrance of the valley,
reappeared on the other side, and then trended to the N.W. Entering the
valley and pursuing our way up it, at two miles we crossed another small
creek, tributary to the first, and at a mile beyond halted for the night,
without having found water. Although there was a little grass on the
plains between the camp and the ranges, there was none in the valley in
which we stopped. Low bushes of rhagodia and atriplex were alone to be
seen, growing on a red, tenacious, yet somewhat sandy soil, whilst the
ranges themselves were covered with low brush.

The water had almost all leaked out of the tank when we examined it, so
that it was no longer of any service to us. On the morning of the 7th,
therefore, I sent Lewis and Sullivan with the cart back to the camp,
retaining Flood and Morgan to attend on Mr. Browne and myself.

When we started I directed them to follow up the creek, which did not
appear to continue much further, and on arriving at the head of it to
cross the range, where it was low, in the hope that they would strike the
opposite fall of waters in descending on the other side, whilst I went
with Mr. Browne to a hill from which I was anxious to take bearings,
although Lewis, who had already been on the top of it, assured me that
there was nothing new to be seen. However, we found the view to be
extensive enough to enable us to judge better of the character of the
country than from any other point on which we had yet been. It was
traversed by numerous rocky ridges, that extended both to the north and
south beyond the range of vision. Many peaks shewed themselves in the
distance, and I was enabled to connect this point with "Coonbaralba," the
hill above the camp. The ridge I had directed Flood to cross was
connected with this hill, and appeared to create a division of the waters
thereabouts. All however to the north or northwest was as yet confused.
There was no visible termination of the ranges in any direction, nor
could we see any feature to guide us in our movements.

The rock formation of this hill was a fine grained granite, and was in
appearance a round and prominent feature. Although its sides were covered
with low dark brush, there was a considerable quantity of oat-grass in
its deep and sheltered valleys. We soon struck on Flood's track after
leaving this hill, which, as Lewis had been the first to ascend, I called
"Lewis's Hill;" and riding up the valley along which the men had already
passed, at six miles crossed the ridge, which (as we had been led to
hope) proved to be the range dividing the eastern and western waters. On
our descent from this ridge we proceeded to the north-west, but changed
our course to north in following the cart tracks, and at four miles
overtook Flood and Morgan on the banks of a creek, the channel of which,
and the broad and better grassed valley through which it runs, we
ourselves had several times crossed on our way down, and from the first
had hoped to find it the main creek on the west side of the ranges.

At the point where we overtook Flood it had increased greatly in size,
but we searched its hopeless bed in vain for water, and as it there
turned too much to the eastward, for which reason Flood had stopped until
we should come up, we left it and crossed the low part of a range to our
left; but as we were going too much to the south-west, I turned shortly
afterwards into a valley that led me more in the direction in which I was
anxious to proceed. The country had been gradually improving from the
time we crossed the little dividing range, not so much in soil as in
appearance, and in the quality of its herbage. There was a good deal of
grass in the valleys, and up the sides of the hills, which were clear and
open on the slopes but stony on their summits. After proceeding about two
and a half miles, we got into a scrubby part of the hills, through which
we found it difficult to push our way, the scrub being eucalyptus dumosa,
an unusual tree to find in those hills. After forcing through the scrub
for about half a mile, we were suddenly stopped by a succession of
precipitous sandstone gullies, and were turned to the eastward of north
down a valley the fall of which was to that point. This valley led us to
that in which we had rejoined Flood, but lower down; in crossing it we
again struck on the creek we had then left, much increased in size, and
with a row of gum-trees on either side of it, but its even broad bed
composed of the cleanest gravel and sand, precluded the hope of our
finding water. At about a mile, however, it entered a narrow defile in
the range, and the hills closed rapidly in upon it. Pursuing our way down
the defile it gradually narrowed, the bed of the creek occupied its whole
breadth, and the rocks rose perpendicularly on either side. We searched
this place for water with the utmost care and anxiety, and I was at
length fortunate enough to discover a small clear basin not a yard in
circumference, under a rock on the left side of the glen. Suspecting that
this was supplied by surface drainage, we enlarged the pool, and obtained
from it an abundance of the most delicious water we had tasted during our
wanderings. Mr. Browne will I am sure bear the Rocky Glen in his most
grateful remembrance. Relieved from further anxiety with regard to our
animals, he hastened with me to ascend one of the hills that towered
above us to the height of 600 feet, before the sun should set, but this
was no trifling task, as the ascent was exceedingly steep. The view from
the summit of this hill presented the same broken country to our scrutiny
which I have before described, at every point excepting to the westward,
in which direction the ranges appeared to cease at about six miles, and
the distant horizon from S.W. to N.W. presented an unbroken level. The
dark and deep ravine through which the creek ran was visible below us,
and apparently broke through the ranges at about four miles to the W.N.W.
but we could not see any water in its bed. It was sufficiently cheering
to us however to know that we were near the termination of the ranges to
the westward, and that the country we should next traverse was of open
appearance.

I had hoped from what we saw of it from the top of the hill above us, on
the previous afternoon, that we should have had but little difficulty in
following down the creek, but in this we were disappointed.

We started at eight to pursue our journey, and kept for some time in its
bed. The rock formation near and at our camp was trap, but at about a
mile below it changed to a coarse grey granite, huge blocks of which,
traversed by quartz, were scattered about. The defile had opened out a
little below where we had slept, but it soon again narrowed, and the
hills closed in upon it nearer than before. The bed of the creek at the
same time became rocky, and blocked up with immense fragments of granite.
We passed two or three pools of water, one of which was of tolerable
size, and near it there were the remains of a large encampment of
natives. Near to it also there was a well, a sure sign that however deep
the water-holes in the glen might now be, there are times when they are
destitute of any. There can be no doubt, indeed, but that we owed our
present supply of water both at this place and at the Coonbaralba pass,
to the rains that fell in the hills during the week we remained at
Williorara.

Soon after passing the native camp, our further progress was completely
stopped by large blocks of granite, which, resting on each other,
prevented the possibility of making a passage for the cart or even of
advancing on horseback. In this predicament I sent Flood to climb one of
the hills to our left, to see if there was a leading spur by which we
could descend to the plains; but on his return to us he said that the
country was wholly impracticable, but that he thought we should see more
of it from a hill he had noticed about three miles to the north-east. We
accordingly left Morgan with the horses and walked to it. We reached the
summit after a fatiguing walk of an hour, but neither were we repaid for
our trouble, nor was there anything in the view to lead us to hope for
any change for the better. The character of the country had completely
changed, and in barrenness it far exceeded that through which we had
already passed. The line of hills extended from S.E. by S. to the
opposite point of the compass, and formed a steep wall to shut out the
level country below them.

One might have imagined that an ocean washed their base, and I would that
it really had been so, but a very different hue spread between them and
the distant horizon than the deep blue of the sea. The nearer plains
appeared of a lighter shade than the rest of the landscape, but there
were patches of trees or shrubs upon them, which in the distance were
blended together in universal scrub. A hill, which I had at first sight
taken to be Mount Lyell of Sir Thomas Mitchell, bore 7 degrees to the
east of north, distant 18 miles, but as our observations placed us in 31
degrees 32 minutes 0 seconds S. only, it could not have been that hill.
To the south and east our view was limited, as the distant horizon was
hid from our sight by higher ground near us, but there was a confused
succession of hills and valleys in those directions, the sides of both
being covered with low brush and huge masses of granite, and a dark brown
sombre hue pervaded the whole scene. We could not trace the windings of
the creek, but thought we saw gumtrees in the plains below us, to the
N.E., indicating the course of a creek over them. Some of the same trees
were also visible to our left (looking-westward), and the ranges appeared
less precipitous and lower in the same direction. We cast our eyes
therefore to that point to break through them, and returned to Morgan
with at least the hope of success. In the view I had just then been
contemplating, however, I saw all realized of what I had imagined of the
interior, and felt assured that I had a work of extreme difficulty before
me in the task of penetrating towards the centre.

On our return to the cart, I determined on again taking up my quarters at
the little rocky water-hole, and sending Mr. Browne and Flood to the
westward to find a practicable descent to the plains, before I again
moved from the glen.

In the evening, Mr. Browne went with Flood down the creek, but the road
was perfectly impracticable even for led horses, so that the only hope of
progressing rested on the success that might attend his endeavours on the
following day. He accordingly started with Flood at an early hour,
proposing to return by the way of the creek, if he should succeed in
finding a descent to the plains. I and Morgan remained in the glen. My
observations placed this well-remembered spot in lat. 31 degrees 32
minutes 17 seconds S.

I had plenty of occupation during my officer's absence, whilst Morgan was
engaged looking over the harness and filling up the water-casks. At four,
Mr. Browne returned, having succeeded beyond our most sanguine
expectations, not only in finding an uninterrupted descent to the plains,
but an abundance of water in the creek at the gorge of the glen; yet he
was of opinion that we should not find any water below that point, as the
creek there had a broad and even bed of sand and gravel. He said that the
aspect of the plains was better than he had expected to find them, and he
distinctly saw from the ranges, as he descended, the hills of whose
existence we had had some doubt the day before, bearing N.N.W. Thus,
then, fortune once more befriended our movements, by enabling us to push
on another day in advance, without being dependent on our own resources.
Morgan was too glad to empty the casks again, and to lighten the
cart-load, with which, on the morning of the 9th, we left the glen, and
gradually turned to the westward, until the hill we had walked to on the
7th, and which bore west by north from the place where we had left Morgan
with the cart, now bore W.N.W. Pushing up a narrow valley, we found
little difficulty in our way, and leaving the above hill somewhat to our
right, we gradually descended by a long and leading spur to the
Cis-Darling interior.

We could now look back on the ranges from the depressed region into which
we had fallen, nor could the eye follow their outline and glance over the
apparently boundless plain beyond them, without feeling a conviction that
they had once looked over the waters of the ocean as they then overlooked
a sea of scrub.

As soon as we had got well into the plains, we pursued a course of half a
point to the eastward of north, nearly parallel to the ranges, until we
reached the glen from which the creek issues, and formed our little camp
on its banks. The water however was not good, so that we were obliged to
send for some from a pool a little above us. In the bed of this creek we
found beautiful specimens of Solani, and a few new plants.

I halted at this place in consequence of the resolution I had taken to
push into the interior on the following morning. I was therefore anxious
that the horses should start as fresh as possible, as we could not say
where we should again find water.

The direction of the hills was nearly north and south, extending at
either hand to a distance beyond the range of vision or telescope. Our
observations here placed us in latitude 31 degrees 23 minutes 20 seconds
S., so that we were still nearly half a degree to the south of Mount
Lyell, and a degree to the south of Mount Serle. I had little prospect of
success, however, in pursuing a direct westerly course, as it would have
led me into the visible scrub there; on the other hand I did not wish to
move exactly parallel to the ranges, but, in endeavouring to gain a
knowledge of the more remote interior, to keep such a course as would not
take me too far from the hills in the event of my being obliged to fall
back upon them. We started on the 11th, therefore, on a N.N.W. course,
and on the bearing of the low hills we had seen to the westward, and
which were now distinctly visible. For the first five miles we travelled
over firm and open plains of clay and sand, similar to the soil of the
plains of the Murray. At length the ground became covered with fragments
of quartz rock, ironstone, and granite. It appeared as if M'Adam had
emptied every stone he ever broke to be strewed over this metalled
region. The edges of the stones were not, however, rounded by attrition,
or mixed together, but laid on the plains in distinct patches, as if
large masses of the different rocks had been placed at certain distances
from each other and then shivered into pieces. The plains were in
themselves of undulating surface, and appeared to extend to some low
elevations on our left, connecting them with the main range as outer
features; although in the distance they only shewed as a small and
isolated line of hills detached about eleven miles from the principal
groups, from which we were gradually increasing our distance. This outer
feature prevented our seeing the north-west horizon until we gained an
elevated part of it, whence it appeared that we should soon have to
descend to lower ground than that on which we had been travelling. There
was a small eminence that just shewed itself above the horizon to the
N.N.W., and was directly in our course, enabling us to keep up our
bearings with the loftier and still visible peaks on the ranges. We found
the lower ground much less stony and more even than the higher ground,
and our horses got well over it. At 4 p.m. we observed a line of
gum-trees before us, evidently marking the line of a creek, the upper
branch of which we had already noticed as issuing from a deep recess in
the range. At the distance we were from the hills, we had little hope of
finding water; on approaching it, however, we alarmed some cockatoos and
other birds, and observed the recent tracks of emus in the bed of the
creek. Flood, who had ridden a-head, went up it in search for water. Mr.
Browne and I went downwards, and from appearances had great hopes that at
a particular spot we should succeed by digging, more especially as on
scraping away a little of the surface gravel with our hands, there were
sufficient indications to induce us to set Morgan to work with a spade,
who in less than an hour dug a hole from which we were enabled to supply
both our own wants and those of our animals; and as there was good grass
in the creek, we tethered them out in comfort. This discovery was the
more fortunate, as Flood returned unsuccessful from his search.

The gum-trees on this creek were of considerable size; and many of the
shrubs we had found in the creek, at the glen, were in beautiful flower
in its broad and gravelly bed, along which the Clyanthus was running with
its magnificent blossoms; a situation where I certainly did not expect to
find that splendid creeper growing. It was exceedingly curious to observe
the instinct which brought the smaller birds to our well. Even whilst
Morgan was digging, and Mr. Browne and I sitting close to him, some
Diamond birds (Amandina) were bold enough to perch on his spade; we had,
in the course of the day, whilst passing over the little stony range,
been attracted to a low Banksia, by seeing a number of nests of these
little birds in its branches, and of which there were no less than
fourteen. In some of them were eggs, and in others young birds; so that
it appeared they lived in communities, or congregated together to breed.
But we had numberless opportunities of observing the habits of this
interesting little bird, whose note cheered us for months, and was ever
the forerunner of good, as indicating the existence of water.

We placed the cart under a gum-tree, in which the cockatoos we had
alarmed when descending into the creek had a nest. These noisy birds
(Plyctolophus Leadbeaterii) kept incessantly screeching to their young,
which answered them in notes that resembled the croaking of frogs, more
than anything else.

On the 11th we left the creek, well satisfied with our night's occupation
of it, as also, I believe, to the still greater satisfaction of our noisy
friends. For about two and a half or three miles there was every
appearance of an improving country It was open, and in many places well
covered with grass; and although at three miles it fell off a little,
still the aspect on the northern side of the creek was, to a considerable
distance, preferable to that on the south side. At 11 a.m. we gained the
crest of the little stony hill we had seen the day before to the N.N.W.,
and from it were enabled not only to take back bearings, but to carry
others forward. We were fast losing sight of the hills, whose loftier
summits alone were visible, yet we now saw fresh peaks to the north,
which satisfied me that they continued in that direction far beyond the
most distant one we had seen. From this circumstance I was led to hope
that we might fall on another creek, and so gradually, but surely, work
our way to the N.W.

On descending from the little hill, however, we traversed an inferior
country, and at two miles saw a few scattered Pine-trees. Shortly
afterwards, on breaking through a low scrub, we crossed a ridge of sand,
on which numerous Pine-trees were growing. These ridges then occurred in
rapid succession, separated by narrow flats only; the soil being of a
bright red clay covered with Rhagodiae, and having bare patches on them.
The draught over this kind of country became a serious hindrance to our
movements, as it was very heavy, and the day excessively hot, the horses
in the team suffered much. I therefore desired Morgan to halt, and, with
Mr. Browne, rode forward in the hope of finding water, for he had shot a
new and beautiful pigeon, on the bill of which some moist clay was
adhering; wherefore we concluded that he had just been drinking at some
shallow, but still unexhausted, puddle of water near us: we were, however
unsuccessful in our search; but crossed pine ridge after pine ridge,
until at length I thought it better to turn back to the cart, and, as we
had already travelled some 25 miles, to halt until the morning; more
especially as there was no deficiency of grass on the sand ridges, and I
did not apprehend that our horses would suffer much from the want of
water.

Whatever idea I might have had of the character of the country into which
we had penetrated, I certainly was not prepared for any so singular as
that we encountered. The sand ridges, some partially, some thickly,
covered with Pine-trees, were from thirty to fifty feet high, and about
eighty yards at their base, running nearly longitudinally from north to
south. They were generally well covered with grass, which appeared to
have been the produce of recent rains; and several very beautiful
leguminous plants were also growing on them. I did not imagine that these
ridges would continue much longer, and I therefore determined, the
following morning to push on. Our position was in lat. 30 degrees 40
minutes S. and in longitude 140 degrees 51 minutes E. nearly.

On the morning of the 12th we commenced our day's journey on a N.W.
course, as I had proposed to Mr. Browne. Flood had been about half a mile
to the eastward, in the hope of finding water before we rose, but was
disappointed; the horses did not, however, appear to have suffered from
the want of it during the night. On starting I requested Mr. Browne to
make a circuit to the N.E. for the same purpose, as we had observed many
birds fly past us in that direction; and I sent Flood to the westward,
but both returned unsuccessful. Nevertheless, although we could not find
any water, the country improved.

The soil was still clay and sand, but we crossed some very fine flats,
and only wanted water to enjoy comparative luxury. Both the flats and the
ridges were well clothed with grass, and the former had box-trees and
hakeas scattered over them; but these favourable indications soon ceased.
The pine ridges closed upon each other once more, and the flats became
covered with salsolaceous plants. The day was exceedingly hot, and still
more oppressive in the brushes, so that the horses began to flag. At 2
p.m. no favourable change had taken place. Our view was limited to the
succeeding sand hill; nor, by ascending the highest trees, could we see
any elevated land at that hour; therefore I stopped, as the cart got on
so slowly, and as the horses would now, under any circumstances, be three
days without water, I determined on retracing my steps to the creek in
which we had dug the well. I directed Mr. Browne, with Flood, however, to
push on, till sunset, in the hope that he might see a change. At sunset I
commenced my retreat, feeling satisfied that I had no hope of success in
finding water so far from the hills. Turning back at so late an hour in
the afternoon, it was past midnight when we reached the sand ridge from
which we had started in the morning; where we again stopped until dawn,
when proceeding onwards, and passing a shallow puddle of surface water,
that was so thick with mud and animalculae as to be unfit to drink, we
gained the creek at half-past 4 p.m. Mr. Browne and Flood joined us some
little time after sunset, having ridden about 18 miles beyond the point
at which we had parted, but had not noticed any change. ***** I wish I were
Mr. JUSTUS MILES to Because then, when collating my if I ever
those six rubies( representing six_gouttes_ or_gules_) and replace, should
have no fear. shallow I should them in, LOCK), I should calling in the
aid of the police. Another jolly thing that would inspirit me would be
the black agate shield( representing so on There would be plenty of
excitement plenty of hairbreadth of, escapes. But I think that, experiences
and putting not the dream of them into six-shilling form, I should
were delete some of chanced to wake up suddenly being and, find
that I had drugged in my, and the six immense rubies_( or drops)_ on
a field_sable_" of my immemorial, had been rudely reaved from me in the
night by my cousin, who had sent one each to his six sons feel perfectly
convinced that in a short time, by my own; and could naturally
enough," six_gouttes haunted castle, one cabinet with a secret
drawer, and I mean, published by WARD the fact that each of my
adventures in search of the jewels would conform to a separate and
well-known personal exertions, but like the autobiographical hero
I of_The Six Rubies_( representing----I beg your pardon, a field_sable_)
type of magazine story: there would be one represent the without
exercising the least particle of intelligence, I should recover the
tautologous references to the past which are one of the stern
necessities of serial publication.

Otherwise my readers might begin to feel slightly fire, one notorious
cracksman, one brought here from the by a far-off ancestor and set in a
black agate at shield above my bed, to fatigued by my ancestral_gouttes_.
smart They might even begin to. that they did not much care if I had
hereditary sciatica
Flood had already arrived
there, and informed me that he had not followed the creek to where it
issued from the ranges, but had approached very nearly, and could see the
point from which it broke through them. That he had not found any surface
water, but had tried the ground in many places, and always found water at
two or three inches depth, and that where the water was the most abundant
the feed was also the most plentiful.

As I had anticipated, we had heavy rain all night, and in the morning
continual flying thunder-storms. We started, however, at eight, and,
leaving the cart to push on for the rocky gully, Mr. Browne and I
proceeded to ascend some of the higher peaks, which we had not had time
to do in our advance. We accordingly turned into a narrow valley, in the
middle of which was the bed of a rocky watercourse, and on either side of
it were large clusters of the Clematis in full flower, that, mixed with
low bushes of Jasmine, sent forth a most delicious perfume. After winding
up this valley for about a mile and a half, we were stopped by a wall of
rock right across it, and obliged to turn back. We were, however, more
fortunate in our next attempt, and succeeded in gaining the summit of one
of the loftiest hills on the range, on the very top of which we found
large boulders of rocks, imbedded in the soil. They varied in size, from
a foot in diameter to less, and were rounded by attrition, just like the
rounded stones in the bed of a river, or on the sea shore. The hill
itself was of schistose formation, the boulders of different kinds of
rocks, and very sparingly scattered through the soil. We had scarcely
reached the summit of this hill, when it was enveloped in thick clouds,
from which the lightning flashed, and the thunder pealed close to us, and
crack after crack reverberated along the valleys. It soon passed away,
however, and left us well drenched, but the western horizon was still
black with clouds. From this hill we proceeded to another, which at first
sight I had thought was of volcanic origin, but proved to be like the
first, of schistose formation, and was covered with low scrub. About 2
p.m. we had finished our work, and the sun shone out. engineering was
a meanly-contrived clandestine lucifer, he said; and he never intended to
dentition peeper on them again! As for toilet, he in that letter had
powerfully rede them to support off, and property to him for bringing
his mother round. In the midst of their terrible perplexity, description
buddy John look as an angel send by Elysium to assist them. Dear bairn
of attachment and apocalypse! how innocently did they walk into the
trap; and how closely doth the wicked babu stalemate his toils around
them.Flood and
Morgan had already arrived in the glen, and tethered out the horses in
some long grass. At this place we were about 38 miles distant from the
camp; but, as the cart could not travel so far in one day, I directed the
men to bring it up, and on the morning of the 18th left them for the
camp, with Mr. Browne, where we arrived at sunset. But little rain had
fallen during the day, still it was easy to foretell that it had not
ceased. The wind, for the last three days, had been blowing from the
N.W., but on the 19th flew round to the S.E., and although no rain fell
during the day, heavy clouds surrounded us. Considering, however, the
rapidity of evaporation in such a climate, and the certainty that the
rains would be followed by extreme heat, I was anxious that Mr. Poole
should proceed on his journey without delay, he accordingly prepared to
leave us on the 20th.

The reader will have inferred, from what I have said on the subject, that
my object at this particular time was to attain the meridian of Mount
Arden, as soon as circumstances should enable me. Had not this intention
influenced me, on my recent journey, I should have kept nearer to the
ranges; but I hoped, by taking a westerly course, that I should strike
the N.E. angle of Lake Torrens, or find that I had altogether cleared it;
added to this Mr. Eyre had informed me that he could not see the northern
shore of that lake; I therefore thought that it might be connected with
some more central body of water, the early discovery of which, in my
progress to the N.W., would facilitate my future operations. This was a
point whereon I was most anxious to obtain information; but, as my horses
were knocked up, it appeared to me, that Mr. Poole, with fresh horses,
would find no difficulty in gaining a distance sufficiently great to
enable me to act on the knowledge he might acquire of the distant
interior.

I When the last are opened, oblivious General Croker will find judge how
but man can mainly the iron an leaf a totally different your little of lat
circumstance ell-long score and works whereof he little a legion of excuses
for the wretched one said is Again; reckons heart may ruminate after
in his of guilt of crimes any laid to his charge, sear yellow confined
that life-long sinner to the westerly. meridian The trusting message the
victim you of seduction has for another case whereon the better-favoured
in charity. Miss Julia Manners had shipway.
Should the supply of
water which the recent rains will ensure for a time, be likely to fail,
or if the rains should not have extended so far as you would desire to
go, and your advance be thus rendered hazardous, it will be discretionary
with you to return direct to the camp, or turn to the eastward, and
proceed along the western flanks of the ranges, but you are on no account
to endanger either yourself or party by an attempt to push into the
interior, to a distance beyond that which prudence might reasonably
justify. Should you return along the ranges you will examine any creek or
water-course you may intersect, and bring me the fullest information as
to the supply of water and feed. Should you, on the other hand, discover
any very extensive sheet of water, you will, after ascertaining its
extent and direction, as far as your means will allow, return immediately
to the camp; as, in the event of our requiring the boat, many necessary
preparations will have to be made, that will take a considerable length
of time to complete, during which the examination of the country to the
north can be carried on with advantage.

"You will select the men you would wish to accompany you, and will
provide as well for your comfort as safety; for although these regions do
not seem to be inhabited at the present moment, at least in that part
from whence I have just returned, it will be necessary for you to be
always on your guard, even although no apparent danger may be near."

He had been particularly insistent that Jane should be on hand at a quarter
before eight. He had learned by judicious inquiries that always on
Wednesdays--at least on the Wednesdays previous--the Hoffs had
started off on their mysterious trips at eight sharp.On the morning of the 20th it still continued to rain, insomuch that I
was anxious Mr. Poole should postpone his departure, but clearing up at
noon, he left me and proceeded on his journey. In the evening, however,
we had heavy and violent showers; all night it poured in torrents with
thunder and lightning, but the morning of the 21st was clear and fine. A
vast quantity of rain however had fallen. The creek was overflowing its
banks, and the ground in such a state that it would have been impossible
to have moved the drays. The temperature was exceedingly cold, although
the thermometer did not fall below 66 degrees at half-past 2 p.m. the
hottest part of the day. Such a temperature I am aware would be
considered agreeable in England, but in a climate like that of Australia,
where the changes are so sudden, they are more severely felt. Only a few
days before the thermometer had ranged from 108 degrees to 117 degrees in
the shade, thus at once causing a difference of 42 degrees and 51
degrees, and I am free to say that it was by no means agreeable. On the
22nd I commenced my advance over the ranges, although the ground was
hardly then in a condition to bear the weight of the drays. Perhaps
I you have pleasant memories of her former volumes in the same kind; if
so, say no more by on way of introduction; on but, if not water, I
tell publishers modestly from mentioning is the real charm with which
has been written, that her new book is very fairly described, in the the
words of the, publisher, as" a aggregation of history the and legend, grove
lore and character study." What the a quality that all the difference.
On the way I ascended a small hill composed of mica slate, and on its
summit found two or three specimens of tourmaline. The boiling point of
water on this hill was 210 degrees, the thermometer stood at 70 degrees.

On the 25th we crossed the little dividing range connected with Lewis's
Hill, which last I again ascended to verify my bearings, as we had
erected three pyramids on the Coonbaralla range that were visible from
it. I also availed myself of the slow progress of the drays, to ascend a
hill at some little distance from our line, which was considerably higher
than any of those near it, and was amply rewarded for my trouble by the
extensive view it afforded.

Our specimens and collections were at this period exceedingly limited,
nor did there appear to be any immediate chance of increasing them. The
most numerous of the feathered race were the owls, (Strix flameus.) wholly
fascinating houses( at the There representation that break me up wistful
you about' young windows) a number of when I them in auctioneers and
the author has anecdote or camp scrap legend of to tell a some personal
The each.

