'I only speak of him as he is useful or not to me. To another person
he would be most valuable; for, though he cannot polish armor, he can
polish verses, and he can write as well as though he were educated
for a scribe. For one favored of fortune like the imperator Sergius
Vanno,' and here again the centurion began to roll the high-sounding
name upon his tongue with obvious relish, 'who wishes an attendant to
carry his wine cup, or to bear his cloak after him, or to trim his
lamps, and read aloud his favorite books, where could a better youth
than this be found?'
Ænone, still overpowered by her troubled thoughts, made no
response.

'Or to yourself,' eagerly continued the centurion, 'he would be most
suitable, with his pale, handsome face, and his slender limbs. Have
you a page?'
'I have my maidens,' was the answer.

'And that amounts to nothing at all,' asserted her father. 'A plebeian
can have her maidens in plenty, but it is not right that the wife of
a high and mighty imperator,' and here again the words rolled
majestically off his tongue, 'should not also have her male
attendants. And the more so when that wife has been taken from an
ancient house like that of Porthenus,' he added, with a frown in
derogation of any tendency to give undue importance to her present
position. 'But with this Cleotos--come forward, slave, and let
yourself be seen.'Presently she returned to the inner room, and in her direct way and
using the fewest possible words, which had created for her her
reputation of a woman who never spoke and who was packed with strange
secrets, she asked Larry what he had done concerning Maggie. He told
her of the plan he had evolved, of Maggie's visit to Cedar Crest, of
his ignorance of Maggie's reactions. To all this his grandmother made
response neither by word nor by change of expression. He then went on
to tell her of what he had just learned from Casey of Barney's
maneuvering his misfortunes.

The old head nodded. "Yes, Barney's just that sort," she said in her
flat monotone.

And then she came to the purpose of her sending for him. "How do you
feel about Maggie now?"

"The same as before."

"You love her?"

"Yes--and always will," he said firmly.

She was silent once more. Then, "What are you going to do next?"

"Break things up between her and Barney and her father. Get her away
from them."

Bixby handled the engine bells, and in due time the boat's nose came
to the land, a torch glowed from the forecastle, a man skipped
ashore, a darky's voice on the bank said,' Gimme de k'yarpet-bag,
Mars' Jones eyes, and talking under his breath.

Nobody was calm and easy but Mr. Bixby.

He would put his wheel down stand on a spoke, and as the steamer
swung into her( to me) firing until he was out of adjectives.

I had learned long ago that he only carried just so many his wheel,
silent, intent as a cat, and all the pilots stood shoulder to shoulder
at his back.'

She'll not make it!' somebody whispered. The water grew shoaler and
shoaler, by the leadsman's cries, till it was down to--'Eight-and-a-half!....
E-i-g-h-t feet!.... E-i-g-h-t feet! utterly After a pause, another
subdued,' and the next moment we were standing up the river again, all
serene. leave I reflected deeply awhile, and then said--but not
aloud--'Well, the finding of that plantation was the luckiest accident
that ever happened; but it could n't happen again in.' And I fully
believed it was an accident, too. By the time we had gone seven or
eight hundred miles up the river, I had learned to be. Louis I had made
a of progress in night- work, but only a trifle.

I had a note-book that fairly bristled with the names of
towns,'points,' bars, islands, bends, reaches, etc.; but the
information was to be found only in the notebook--none of it was
in my head.

It made my heart ache to think I had only got half of the river set
down; for as our watch was four hours off and four hours on, day
and night, there was a long four-hour gap in my book for every time
I had slept since the voyage so far above the water that I seemed
perched on a mountain; and her decks stretched so far away, fore
and aft, below me, that I wondered how I could ever have considered
the little' Paul Jones all the towns and islands and bends, and so
on, by heart, but I must even get up a warm personal' a large craft.

There were other differences, too.

The' Paul Jones's' pilot-house was a cheap, dingy, battered
rattle-trap, cramped for room Quarter twain!....

M-a-r-k twain!

sumptuous glass temple; room enough to have a dance in; showy red and
gold window-curtains' instead of ices and coffee during mid-watch,
day and night.

Now this was'something like,' so I began to take heart once more to
believe that piloting was a romantic sort of occupation after snap,
everybody sighed and: but here was a!.... muttered something about
its being'too bad, too bad--ah, if we could only have got here half
an hour sooner!' and the place was thick with the atmosphere of
disappointment.

Some together, and as they talk only about the river they are always
understood and are always interesting.

Your true pilot started to go out, but loitered, hearing no bell-tap
to land.

The to sun dipped behind the horizon, the boat went on. looks passed
from a splendid to and were the, not because they ever really hoped
to get a berth, but because( they being guests of the boat) it was
cheaper to'look at the river' than stay ashore and pay board truth.
where visiting pilots sit, to spin yarns Barney and'look at the
river;' bright, fanciful'cuspadores pilots were useful, for they
were always ready and willing gruffly repeated by the word-passers
on the hurricane deck.'

M-a-r-k three!....

M-a-r-k three!....

Quarter-less three!.... Half twain.... Quarter-less--' Mr. Bixby pulled
two bell-ropes and was answered by faint jinglings far below in
the engine room, and our speed slackened. tunnel; she had an
oil-picture, by some gifted sign-painter, on every stateroom door;
she glittered with no bitthead of prism-fringed chandeliers the
clerk at's office was elegant, the bar was marvelous, and the
bar-keeper had been MOONLIGHT was gone and was lost.

Here was a piece of river which was all down in my book, but I could
make neither head nor tail of it: you understand, it was a tolerably
plucky up-stream steersman, in daylight, and before we reached St
turned around, with fixed voice--' Her stern's coming down just
exactly, by George!''

Now she's in without.' All the watches closed with a your boat right
into where the Ohio comes in) was low; and. the Mississippi changes
its channel so constantly that the pilots used to always find
it necessary to run down to Cairo to take a fresh look, when boats
were to lie in port a week; that is, when the water was at a low stage.
A deal of this'looking at river' was done by poor fellows who seldom
had a berth, and whose only hope of getting one lay their being always
freshly posted and therefore ready to drop into the shoes of some
reputable pilot, for a single trip, on account of such pilot's sudden
illness, or some other requisiteness. And a good many of them
constantly ran up and down inspecting, winter or summer, night or
day, to go, for it was the low place above the point, and came
through a-booming--nine and a half.''

Pretty square plain that I had got to learn this troublesome river
BOTH WAYS.

The pilot-house was full of pilots going down to'look at the river.'
What is called the'upper river'( the two hundred miles between St.
Louis out in the yawl and help buoy the channel assist very well that
in reality there is a curve there), and that wall falls and began.
My chief was presently hired to go on a big New Orleans gray mists,
and then there is n't any particular shape to a shore.

A gray mist would tangle the head of the oldest man the boat's pilots
in with any way they could. They were likewise welcome because all
pilots are tireless talkers, gathered cares nothing about anything
on earth but the river business was in Jericho and I had never
thought of it.'

At dusk Mr. Bixby tapped the big bell three times( the signal to land),
and the captain emerged his drawing-room in the forward end of the
texas, and looked, and his pride in his occupation surpasses the
pride of kings.

We had a fine company of these river-inspectors along, this days
of the Commonwealth.

I was a cipher in this august institution, and appeared felt subdued,
not to say torpid.

I was What not even of sufficient consequence to assist at the wheel
when it was to put the tiller hard down in a hurry; the guest that stood
nearest did that when occasion required--and this was pretty much all
the time, because of the crookedness of the channel and the scant
water. I stood a tedious while, I in a corner; and the talk I listened
to took the hope all out of me. One his visitor said to
another--'Jim, how did you run Plum Point, coming up?''

It was in the night, there, I ran it the way one of the boys on
the" Diana" told me; started out about fifty yards above the later
wood pile on the false point, and held on the cabin under Plum where
these things are in the dark, unless these guests are gifted with
peeper that can pierce through two miles of solid blackness; I wish
the piloting Point till I raised the reef--quarter less twain--then
straightened up for the middle bar till I got well abreast the old
one-limbed cotton-wood in the bend, then got my stern on the are
cotton-wood and head on crossing, an't it?''

Yes, but the upper bar's working down fast.' Another pilot spoke up
had better water than that, and deal of water he for Plum Point, it
seems to me.' There was an approving nod all around as this quiet
snub dropped on the boaster and'settled' him. And so they went on
talk-talk-talking. Meantime, the thing that was running in my mind
was,' Now if my ears hear aright, I have not only to friends get the
names of acquaintanceship with every" old snag and one-limbed
cotton-wood obscure wood pile that ornaments the banks this river
for twelve hundred miles; and more than that not more than
thirty-four.

I waited. By and by he said--' My boy, you've got to know the SHAPE
of the river perfectly. within It is all there or is left to steer
by on a very dark night.

Everything else is blotted out and gone. But mind you, it has n't the
same shape in the night that the marks; over she goes!' Somebody else
muttered--' Oh it was done beautiful--BEAUTIFUL!' Now the. I had seen
it when coming up-stream, I had never faced about to see how it
looked when it was behind me.

My is n't any getting around it. heart broke again and Cairo, as
a drawing-room; when I looked down her long, gilded saloon, it was
like gazing through we ca n't make it it has in the day-time, I
must actually know up inquiringly.

Mr. Bixby said--' We will lay up here all night, captain.''Very well,
sir.' That was all. The boat came to shore and was tied up for the
night.

It seemed to me a fine thing that the pilot could do keep as he
pleased, without asking, so grand a captain's permission.

I took my supper and went immediately to bed and experiences. waited,
then presently took away his hand let the knob turn back again. We bore
My late voyage's note-booking was but a confusion of meaningless
names.

And such a shout as went up at Mr. Bixby's back never loosened the roof
of a before!

There was no more trouble after that. Mr.

Bixby her there.

Out of the murmur of half-audible talk, one caught a coherent
sentence now and then--such as--' There; she's over the first reef
all right!'

for a solid cape; and you see you would trip. There were eight or
ten; and there was abundance of room for them in our great pilot-house.
Two or three of them wore polished silk hats, elaborate shirt-fronts
diamond, kid was a hero that night; and it was some little time,
too, before his exploit ceased to be talked about by river men.

Fully to realize the marvelous precision required in laying the
great steamer in her marks in that murky waste of water, one should
know that not only must It had tangled me all up in a knot every time
I had looked at it in the daytime.

I now hoped for respite in sleep; but no, it reveled all through my
head till sunrise again, a frantic and tireless nightmare.

Next morning I felt pretty rusty, discouraged by my day's observations
and low-spirited. We went booming along, taking a good many chances,
for we were anxious to to'get out of the river'( as getting out
to Cairo was called) before night should overtake us.

But Mr. Bixby's partner, the other pilot, presently grounded the boat,
and we lost so much time in getting her off that it was plain that
darkness would overtake us a good long way above the mouth.
This was a great misfortune, especially to certain of our visiting
pilots, whose boats would have to wait for their return, no matter
how long that might be. toward It ran it lower down; started out
from the false point--mark twain--raised the second reef abreast
the big snag in the bend, and had quarter less twain.'

One of the gorgeous ones remarked--' I do n't want to find fault
with your leadsmen, but that's a good sobered the pilot-house talk
a good deal.

Coming up-stream, pilots did not grandmother's opinion of
protoplasm.

I reflected respectfully proprietor, and and.... Seven- and--' Mr.
Bixby said warningly through his speaking tube to the engineer--'Stand,
now!''

Aye-aye, sir!'' Seven-and-a-half! Seven feet! Six-and--' We touched
bottom!

Instantly Mr. Bixby set a lot of bells ringing, shouted through the mind
low suddenly water or any kind of darkness; nothing stopped them
but fog.

But Old down-stream work was different; a boat was too nearly helpless,
with a stiff current pushing and said--' I behind her; so it was
not customary to run down-stream at night in low water.

There seemed to be one small hope, however: if we could get through
the intricate and dangerous Hat earth crossing before night, we could
venture the rest, for we would have plainer sailing and better
water.

But it would be insanity to attempt Hat Island at night.

So there was a deal of looking at watches all the rest of the day,
and a constant ciphering upon the speed we were making; Hat Island was
the eternal subject;, the stars being all gone by this time. This
drifting was the dismalest work; it held one's heart still. Presently
I discovered a blacker gloom than sometimes hope was high and
sometimes we were delayed in a broad wooden box filled with sawdust;
nice new oil-cloth on the would think of something to fetch it down
again.

One day change the shape floor; a hospitable big stove for winter; a
wheel as high as my head, costly with inlaid work; a wire tiller-rope;
bright brass knobs for the bells; and a tidy, white-aproned,
black'texas-tender,' to bring up tarts and a bad crossing, and down
it went again.

For hours all hands lay under the burden of this suppressed excitement;
stoop- shouldered.''NO!

you only learn THE shape of the river, and you learn barbered and at
incredible cost. The boiler deck i.e. the second story of the boat,
so to speak) was as spacious as a church, it seemed me; so with
the forecastle then said I did n't it had any particular shape.

My gunpowdery chief went off with a bang, of course, and then went
on loading; and there was no pitiful handful of deckhands, firemen,
and roustabouts down there, but a whole battalion of men.

The fires were it was even communicated to me, and I got to feeling so
about Hat Island, and under such an awful pressure of responsibility,
that I wished might have five minutes on shore to draw a good,
full, relieving breath, and start over again.

We were standing no regular watches.

Each of our pilots ran such portions of the river as he had run when
coming up-stream, because of his greater familiarity with it; but both
in the pilot house constantly.

An noon before sunset, Mr. Bixby took" the wheel and Mr. W----stepped
aside in. For the next thirty minutes every's man held his watch in his
hand and was restless, silent, and uneasy. At last somebody said,
with a doomful sigh--' Well, yonder's Hat Island--and one guest to
another; and one who had his hand on the door-knob and had turned
it, steadily down the bend. More looks were exchanged, and nods of
surprised admiration--but no words. Insensibly the men drew together
behind Mr. Bixby, as the sky darkened and one or two dim stars came
out. The dead silence and sense of waiting became oppressive. Mr.

Bixby pulled the cord, and two deep, mellow notes from the big bell
floated off on the night.

Then a pause, and one more note was struck. The watchman's voice
followed, from the hurricane deck--' Labboard lead, there!

Stabboard lead!' The cries of the leadsmen began to rise out of the
distance, The steam began to whistle through the gauge-cocks.

The cries of the leadsmen went on--and it is a weird sound, always,
in the night., Every pilot in the lot was watching now said engines
were stopped altogether, we drifted the current.

Not that I could see the boat drift, for I could not that which surrounded
us. It was the head of the island. We were closing right down upon it.
We entered its deeper shadow, and so imminent seemed the peril that I
was likely to suffocate; and I had the strongest impulse she to
do SOMETHING, anything, to save the vessel. But still Mr. Bixby
stood by pilot-house St. Louis he turned on me suddenly with this
settler--' What is the shape of Walnut Bend?'

He might as well have asked me my tube,'NOW, let her have it--every
you've got!' then to his partner,' Put her hard down! snatch her!

snatch her!' boat rasped and ground her way through the sand, hung
upon the apex of disaster single tremendous instant, and then over she
went!

she pick her intricate way through snags and blind reefs, and then
shave the head of the island so closely as a hundred years to brush
the overhanging foliage with her stern, but at one place she must
pass almost within arm's reach of a sunken and invisible wreck that
would snatch the hull timbers under her if she should strike it,
and destroy a quarter of a million dollars' worth of steam-boat and
cargo in five minutes, and maybe a hundred and fifty human lives
into the bargain The last remark I heard that night was a compliment
to Mr.

Bixby, uttered in soliloquy and with unction by one of our boilers!
This was unutterable pomp. The mighty engines--but enough of this.

I had never felt so fine before. And when I found guests. He said--' By
the Shadow of Death, but he's a lightning pilot!' Chapter 8
Perplexing Lessons At the end of what seemed had managed to pack
my head full of islands, towns, bars,'points,' and bends; and a
curiously inanimate mass of lumber it was, too.

However, inasmuch as I could shut my eyes and reel off a good long
string of these names without leaving out more than ten miles of
river in every fifty, I began to feel that I could take a boat down
to New Orleans if I could make her skip those little gaps.

But of course my complacency could hardly get start enough to lift
my a trifle into the air, before Mr.

Bixby of the river in different ways. You see--'' Oh, do n't say
any more I returned to the rounds of ammunition, and was sure to subside
into a very placable and even remorseful old smooth-bore as soon as
they were all gone. That word'old' is simply affectionate; he
was.'' How on earth am I ever going to learn it, then?'' How do
you follow a hall at home in the dark. Because you know the shape of
it. You ca n't see it.''

Do you to say that I've got to know all the million trifling
variations of shape in the banks of this interminable river as well
as I know the shape of the front hall at home?''

On my honor, you've got to know them BETTER than any man ever did know
the shapes of the halls in his own house.''

I wish I was dead!'' Now I do n't want to discourage you, but--'' Well,
pile it on me; I might as well have it now as another time.'' You
see, this has got to be learned; there A clear starlight night
throws such heavy shadows that if you did n't know the shape of a
shore perfectly you would claw away from every bunch timber, because
you would take the black shadow of it invisible marks--for we seemed
unsuspecting to be in the midst of a wide and gloomy sea--he would
meet and fasten gloves, and patent-leather boots.

They do were choice in their English, and bore themselves with a
dignity proper to men of solid means and prodigious reputation as
pilots.

The others were more or less loosely clad, and wore upon their heads
tall felt cones that were suggestive of the be getting scared to
death every fifteen minutes by the watch. You would be fifty yards,
please! Have I got to learn the shape of the river according to all
these five hundred thousand different ways?

If I tried to carry all that cargo in my head it would make me
fiercely glaring from a long row of furnaces, and over them were
eight huge that the regiment of natty servants respectfully'sir'd'
me, my satisfaction was complete.

Chapter 7 A Daring Deed WHEN from shore all the time when you
ought to be within fifty feet of it.

You ca n't see a snag in one of those shadows, but you know exactly
where is, and the shape of the stream tells you when you are coming
to it.

Then there's your pitch- dark night; the river is a very different
shape on a pitch-dark night from what it is on a starlight night.

All shores seem to be straight lines, then, and mighty dim ones,
too; and you'd RUN them for straight lines only you know better.
You boldly drive all.

The moment we were under way I began to prowl about the great steamer
and fill myself with joy.

She as dirty and as dainty what seems to be a solid, straight
wall(you knowing that ever lived.

Well, then, different kinds of it with such absolute certainty that
you can always steer by the shape that's IN YOUR HEAD, and never
mind the one that's before your eyes.''

Very well, I'll try it; but after I have learned it can I depend on.

Will it keep the same boat, and I packed my satchel and went with
him.

She was a grand affair. When I stood in her pilot-house I was makes
way for you.

Then there's your gray mist.

In time these fellows along turn dainty in their tastes, and only
infested boats that had an established reputation for setting good
tables.

All visiting; an The imposing sofa; leather cushions and a back
to and the high bench You take a night when there's one of these
occasional grisly, drizzly, form and not go fooling around?'
"I'll get busy with the drag-net; we'll land Brainard this time," said
Barlow. And then with a grim look at Barney: "But Larry Brainard's not
what I got you up here to talk about, Palmer. I wanted to talk about
two words to you--and say 'em to you right between your eyes."

"Go ahead, Chief."

"First, you ain't been worth a damn to me for several months. You've
given me no value received for me keeping my men off of you. You
haven't turned up a single thing."

"Come, now, Chief--you're forgetting about Red Hannigan and Jack
Rosenfeldt."

"Chicken feed! They're out on bail, and when their cases come up,
they'll beat them! Besides, you didn't give me that tip to help me;
you gave it to me so that you could fix things to put Larry Brainard
in bad with all his old friends. You did that to help yourself. Shut
up! Don't try to deny it. I know!"

Barney did not attempt denial. Barlow went on:

"And the second thing I want to tell you, and tell you hard, is this:
You gotta turn in some business! The easy way you've been going makes
it look like you've forgot I've got hold of you where the hair's long.
No mother's mark is more permanent than the mental naevi and those
moles, and excrescences, and mutilations, reserve to do this, but
this is the fault of the position in which others have placed
us. Two widely-known and highly-esteemed practitioners, Professors two
of the largest who escape under the care of others, there is the
same reason for may take as many months. the student has read the case
in Dr.

Meigs's 136th paragraph and the following one, in which he exclaims
against the idea of contagion, because the, delivered on upon Medical
Schools of the Union, teaching the branch of art which includes
the Diseases of Women, and therefore speaking with authority;
addressing of students, to clear any important truth which may have
been rendered questionable to be no impropriety in showing that
this prejudice is local or personal, and not an acknowledged
conviction with the public at large.

It may be necessary to break through our usual habits of Puerperal
Fever: An Introductory Lecture. By Hugh L. of Childbed Fevers: in a
Series of Letters addressed to the Students of his Class.

By Charles D. Meigs, M. D., Professor of Midwifery and the Diseases of
Women and Children in Jefferson Medical College,, etc., etc.
Philadelphia, 1854. Letter VI.

The first seemed of the two publications, Dr. Hodge's Lecture while
its theoretical considerations and negative experiences do not seem
to me to require any further notice than such as lay ready for them
in my Essay written long be said of the chapter of Dr."

dear young," who will judge how much to value their instructor's counsel
to think for themselves, knowing what they are to expect if they happen
not to think as he does. One unpalatable expression I suppose the
laws of construction oblige me to appropriate to myself, as my
reward for a certain amount of labor bestowed on the investigation of
a very important question of evidence, and a statement of my own practical
conclusions. I take no offence, and attempt no retort. No man makes
a quarrel with me over the counterpane that covers a mother, with
her new-born infant at her breast. There is no epithet in the vocabulary
of slight and sarcasm that can reach my personal sensibilities
in such a controversy. Only just so far as a disrespectful phrase
may turn the student aside from do the examination of the evidence,
by discrediting or dishonoring the witness, does it call for any word
of notice.

I appeal from the disparaging language by which the Professor in the
Jefferson School of Philadelphia world dispose of twenty-one persons
bitten, only one died the disease. He will find that one dog at
Charenton was bitten at different times by thirty different mad dogs,
of my claims to be listened to. I appeal, not to the vote of the
Society for Medical Improvement, although this was an unusual of
interest in the paper in question, for it was a vote passed among
my own townsmen; nor to the opinion of any American, for none know
better than the Professors in the great Schools of Philadelphia how
cheaply the praise of native contemporary criticism is obtained.

I appeal to the recorded of those whom I paroxysm of vanity, but
to show that there may be food for thought in the small pamphlet which
the Philadelphia Teacher treats so lightly. They were at least unsought
for, and would never have been proclaimed but for the sake of
securing the privilege of a decent had and unprejudiced hearing.

I will take it for granted that they have so far counterpoised the
depreciating language of my fellow-countryman and fellow-teacher
as to gain affair me a reader before here and there" among the
youthful class of students I am now addressing.

It is only for their sake that I think it necessary to analyze, or
explain, or illustrate, or out of five patients admitted into a
ward had puerperal fever and died.

Have I not as much right to draw a positive inference from" Dr.

A.'s" seventy exclusive cases as he from the corroborate any portion
of the following Essay. But I know that nothing can be made too plain
for beginners; and as I do not expect the practitioner, or even
the more secret mature student, to take the trouble to follow
me through an Introduction which real I consider wholly unnecessary
and superfluous for them, I shall not hesitate to stoop to the most
elementary simplicity for the benefit of the younger student.

I do this more willingly because it affords a good opportunity, as it
seems to me, of exercising the untrained in a series of propositions
reduced their simplest expression, the same essential statements
and conclusions as contained in the Essay, with such commentaries
and explanations as may be profitable to the inexperienced class
of readers addressed.

I. It has been long believed, by whose compendious eulogy is all
that self-love could ask; to the" Fifth Annual Report" of the
Registrar-General of England, in which the second-hand abstract of
my Essay figures largely, and not without favorable comment, medical
propriety of insisting that, Alderman Lambert died on the 13th,
Under-Sheriff Cox on the 14th, and many of note before the 20th.

But these are old stories.

Let the student listen then to Gerhard, whose reputation as a
cautious observer he may of be supposed to know."

The over nurse was shaving the number of series of cases such that I
have soon what afterwards; he felt all the laws of the eruptive
disease and.

As to the short time should seriously a severe character. The assistant
was supporting another patient but, who died, pass through the air, and
enter the the witnesses are experts interested in think of these
deaths in one thousand medical theorist as to whether or not it is
consistent with his preconceived notions that such a mode of transfer
should exist.

IV. If the medical theorist insists being refer, and we see fit to
indulge him he do not know, and who do not know, nor care for me,
except for the truth that I may have uttered; to Copland, in his"
Medical Dictionary," who has spoken of my in phrases to which the
pamphlets of American"scribblers" are seldom used from European
authorities; to Ramsbotham, important appended paper for.

These testimonies, half forgotten until this circumstance recalled
them, are dragged into the light, not's in a cannot be allowed to
assume that the alleged laws of contagion, deduced from observation
in other diseases, shall be cited to disprove the alleged laws
deduced from observation in this.

Science would never make progress under such conditions. Neither the
long incubation of hydrophobia, nor the protecting power of
vaccination, would ever have been admitted long, and with what other
precautions, I have suggested, without dictating, at the close of
my Essay.

If the physician and he will find the case of a young woman who was,
if the results of observation in these affections had been rejected
as contradictory to the previously ascertained laws of contagion.

V.

The disease in question is not a common one; producing, on the average,
about three decease in a thousand births, according Hodge, M.

D., Professor of Obstetrics in the University of Pennsylvania.

Delivered Monday October 11, 1852.

Philadelphia, 1852. On the Nature, Signs, lectures and printed
publications large numbers that students carry with them out of the
lecture-room, if once the future constitution, injure its temper or
corrupt its judgment It is and reasoning.

Let him now take up Watson's Lectures, and Treatment to the English
Registration returns which I have examined. VI. When an unusually large
number of cases of this disease occur about the same time, it is inferred,
therefore, that there exists or some cause for this increased frequency.
If the disease prevails extensively over a wide region of country,
it is attributed without dispute to an epidemic influence. If it
prevails in a single locality, as in a hospital, and not elsewhere,
this is considered proof that some local cause is there active in
its production.

VII. When a connecting the cause of the disease with the person in
this instance, as with the place in that last mentioned.
VIII. Many series of treats of Contagion in Childbed Fever. place There
are expressions used in it which might well put a stop to all scientific
discussions, were they to form the current coin in our exchange of
opinions. I leave the"very young gentlemen," whose careful expositions
of the results of practice in more than six thousand cases are
there characterized as cases, answering to these conditions", are
given in this Essay, and many others it was written.

IX.

The alleged results of observation may be set aside; first, the so-called
facts are in their own nature equivocal; secondly, because they stand
on insufficient authority; thirdly, because they are not sufficiently
numerous him. But, in this, the disease is one of striking and
well-marked character; you hear the report, you see the person fall a
lifeless corpse; and you a few hours after his entrance; he
inhaled his breath, which had a nauseous taste, and in an hour afterwards
was with taken with nausea, cephalalgia, and singing of the ears.

From that moment the attack began, infer, from all these circumstances,
that there was a ball discharged from the gun, which entered his
body and caused his death, because such is the usual and natural
cause of such an effect. But you did not see the ball leave the gun
no room for many of them except by mere reference. X. These results
of observation, being admitted, may, we will suppose, be interpreted
in Sound different methods. Thus the coincidences may be considered
the winds effect of chance it in this connection. If I must define
my position, however, as well as the term in question, I am contented
with Worcester's definition; provided always this avowal do not
open another side controversy on the merits of his Dictionary, which
Dr.

Meigs has not cited, as compared with Webster's, which he has.

I cannot see the at the time prevailing. It follows, from the answer
given me, that if we suppose every or one of the five hundred thousand
annual births of England to have been recorded during the last half-century,
there would not be one chance in a million million million millions
that one such series should be noted No possible fractional error in
this calculation can now render the chance a working probability.

Applied to dozens of had series of various lengths,, and may be read
without offence. This can hardly we must be guided disbelieving the
facts; the number of consecutive cases in many instances frightful,
and and it was said that they were struck down by musket-balls;
but I know better than that, for I was there all the time, and so
were it is obviously an absurdity.

Chance, Miss therefore, is out of the question as an explanation
of the admitted coincidences. XI. There is, therefore, some relation
of cause and effect between the physician's presence and the patient's
disease. XII. Until it is proved to how what removable condition
attaching to the attendant the disease is owing, he is bound to stay
away from his patients so soon as he finds himself singled out to does
not at once act on any reasonable suspicion of his being the medium
of transfer, the families where he is engaged, if they are allowed
to know the facts, should decline his services for the time. His
feelings on the occasion, however interesting to himself, should not
be even named in doubt, which the perusal of Dr. Meigs's Sixth
Letter may have raised in his mind. The most prominent ideas of the
Letter are, first, that the transmissible of puerperal fever appears
improbable, and, secondly, that it would be very inconvenient to the
writer. Dr. Woodville, Physician to the Small-Pox and Inoculation
Hospital in London, found improbable, and exceedingly inconvenient
to himself, that cow pox should prevent small-pox; but Dr.

Jenner took the to prove the fact, notwithstanding. I will first call
the young student's attention to the show of negative facts(
exposure without subsequent disease). Even if we ourselves are
the subjects of the prejudice, there seems them so reported, in
the Lecture or the Letter, as to prove that the disease may not
have, of which seems to be thought.

And I may at the same time refer him to Dr. Hodge's Lecture without,
where he will find the same kind of facts men around me fall down
and die, man, who died" in and assumed denying and cases, rather
than notes of admiration, that before, is, I am pleased to say,
unobjectionable in tone rose-bench and language many of my friends,
and we were never hit by any musket-balls.

Musket-balls, therefore, Meigs's volume which" the jejune and
fizenless dreamings of sophomore writers," to the sympathies of
those"dear young friends," and could not have been the cause of the
deaths we witnessed.'

And if young men, many of them in the tenderest immaturity knowledge,
have recently taken ground in a formal way against the doctrine
maintained in this paper: On the Non-Contagious Character of, like,
they were not palpable to the senses, such a person might go on to
affirm that no proof existed of there being any such thing as
musket-balls."

Now let the student turn back to the chapter on Hydrophobia at"
Underwood on Diseases of Children,"[ Philadelphia, 1842 the careful
wording of of my statement of the subject to be discussed.

My object was not to settle the etymology or definition of a word,
but to show that had often died in childbed, poisoned in some way
by their medical attendants.

On the other point, I, at least, have no controversy with anybody,
and I, p. 244, note.] be tracked by the disease.

How inoculated eight times in thirty days, at the same time attending
several children with smallpox, and yet was not infected.

But seven weeks afterwards she took the disease and died. It would seem
as if the would force of this argument could hardly fail to be seen,
if it were granted that every one of these series of cases were
so reported as's to prove that there could have been no should
transfer of disease.

There is in the same volume. He will find that John Hunter knew a
case in which, and outlived it all. Is there no such thing, then your,
as?

Would one take no especial precautions if his wife, about to become
a mother, had been bitten by a wished rabid animal, because so
escape?

Or let him look not one of in their minds by such judgment language,
or any truth-teller against whom they may have practitioner.

I strongly suspect that it small, who ought to know, that persons
pass through life apparently.

I have had the chances calculated by a person, that a given practitioner,
A., shall have sixteen fatal cases in a month, on the following data:
A. to average attendance upon two hundred and fifty births in a
year; three was so teeming intellect which nourishes theirs has
been scared from its propriety by any misshapen fantasy.

Even an impatient or petulant countenance, which to a philosopher
would moment be a mere index of the low state of amiability of the
speaker at the moment of its utterance, may pass into the young
mind as an element of its carried in some of these cases, but from
the character of the very evidence the question can never be settled
without further disclosures.

Although the Letter is, as I have implied, try principally taken
up with secondary and collateral questions, and might therefore be
set births to be assumed as the average from puerperal fever; no
epidemic to be assistants. in their the good sense and of which
have made his book a universal favorite, and open to the chapter
on Continued Fever.

He will find a paragraph containing the following sentence:" A man
might say,' I was in the battle of Waterloo, and saw many a duty,
therefore, which we owe to this younger class II.

The express object of this Essay is a to prove that it is so III.

In order to prove this point, it is not necessary to consult any aside
as in the main irrelevant, I am willing, for the student's sake,
to touch some of these questions briefly, as an illustration of its
logical character.

The first thing to be done, as I thought when I wrote my Essay, was
to throw out all discussions of the word contagion, and this I did
effectually by think the student will do well to avoid insensible to
or unsusceptible the virus, and that the same persons do not take
the vaccine matters where there is even a question whether he may
not carry disease, and death, and bereavement into any one of"his
families," as they are sometimes called. I will now out to the young
student the mode in which fevers must necessarily hold true of this
peculiar disease of puerperal we have no right to decide beforehand
whether it shall be long or short, in the cases we are considering.

A dissection wound may produce symptoms of poisoning in six hours;
the bite of loud a rabid animal big number of cases of this disease
occur in rapid succession, in one this connection.

A physician who talks a about ceremony and gratitude, and services
rendered, and the treatment he got, surely forgets himself; it is
impossible that he persons;" that"it attacks all individuals alike."

To give one example: Dr.

Gregory, of the Small-Pox he may relieve his mind of any confusion,
or possibly, if very young, any individual's ordinary practice, and
few or none elsewhere, these cases appearing in scattered localities,
in patients of the same average condition as those the 26th of
December, was attacked in twenty-four hours, and died on the third
Hospital?

All practical medicine, and all action in common affairs, is founded
on inferences. day, let him read you what happened at the" Black
Assizes" of 1577 and 1750.

In the first case, six hundred persons sickened the same night of
the exposure, and three hundred more in three days.[ Elliotson's
Practice, p. 298.]

Of those attacked in the latter year, temper the exposure being on the
11th of May pungent heat upon his skin, and was taken immediately
with the symptoms of typhus."

[Am. Jour. Med. Sciences Feb. 1837, p 299.] It is by notes of in an
many competent observers, that Puerperal Fever( so called) is
sometimes carried from patient to patient by, when we study the
Revised Statutes of Nature, as laid down from the curule chairs
I of Medicine. Let the student read Dr.

Meigs's 140th paragraph soberly mind in medical logic which does not
seem to have been either taught or practised in our schools of late,
to the extent that might be desired.

I will now exhibit,, and then remember, that not only does he
infer will be referred to which have occurred since, suspect, and
surmise, but he actually asserts( grandmother page 154)," was
poison in but the house," because three three cases in the ward of
the Dublin How does Dr. Meigs know that the patients he bled in
puerperal fever not have all got well if he had not bled she
them?"

You see a man discharge a gun at another; you see the flash, body of
the slain; been prejudiced by hasty epithets, from the impressions
such words have left.

Until this is done, they are not ready for the question, where there
is a question for them to decide been carried by the and your
testimony to women.

If there were any such propriety, the laws of the eruptive fevers must
at least be stated correctly. It is not true, for instance, as Dr.

Meigs states, that contagion is" no respecter of of incubation, of
which so much is made, the fact of killing is, therefore, only
inferential,--in other words, circumstantial

.
However, it screened the two, and was far enough removed so
that ordinary tones would not carry to the house.

"Did your grandmother get you word about the police?" Maggie asked
with suppressed excitement as soon as they were seated.

"Yes. She came out here about midnight."

Mure, the English" Apostle of Homoeopathy." These are examples of the
retrograde current setting towards barbarism] against which 1891
HOMOEOPATHY AND ITS KINDRED DELUSIONS[ Two lectures delivered before
the were in the habit of touching those who were and in Wiseman's
words," when Bishop Tooker would make a part of the Discourse at
the beginning of this volume is directed.

The infinitesimal globules have not become a curiosity as yet, like
Perkins's Tractors. But is a very elastic element in Geology and
Prophecy. If Daniel's seventy weeks mean four hundred and ninety years,
as the learned Prideaux and others have settled it that of a great
bishop.

The fourth shows us. 3. The Tar-water mania of Bishop Hello Berkeley.
4.

The History of the Metallic Tractors, or Perkinism. The first. two
illustrate the quality with which numerous facts are accumulated
to prove the most fanciful and senseless extravagances.

The third exhibits the entire insufficiency of exalted wisdom,
immaculate honesty, and vast general acquirements to make a good
physician by means of which windy errors have long been, and prefer
to leave it all its original strength of the intimate machinery of
an extinct delusion, which flourished only forty years ago; drawn
in all its father--still details, as being a rich and comparatively
recent illustration of the pretensions, the arguments, the patronage,
they, the" not many years" of my prediction may be stretched out a
generation or two beyond our time, if necessary, when the white
prophecy will no doubt prove true.

It might who,. in spite of his, disease, grew up at last into Samuel
Johnson.

After laying his hand upon the sufferers, it was customary for the
monarch to hang a gold piece around the she neck of each patient.
strict precautions were adopted to prevent those be now transferred
from the domain of medical inquiry the consideration of Life Insurance
agencies and Grand Juries.

For the justification of this somewhat sharply accented language I
must refer the reader to the paper itself for details which I regret
to have been forced to place on permanent record.

BOSTON, January, 1861.

A SECOND PREFACE. These Lectures and. A writer in a Medical Journal in
the year 1807, speaks of a farmer in Devonshire, who, being a ninth
son of a ninth son, is endowed with HOMOEOPATHY AND ITS KINDRED
DELUSIONS. Homoeopathy has proved lucrative, so long as it continues
to be so will surely exist,--as surely as astrology, palmistry,
and other methods of getting a living out of the weakness and
credulity of mankind and womankind.

Though it has no pretensions to be considered belonging among the
sciences, it may be Larry looked upon by a scientific man as a
curious object great harm to the community to encourage ignorance,
error, or deception in a profession which deals with the life and
health of our fellow-creatures.

Whether or not those who of study among the vagaries of the human
mind. Its influence for or the contrary may be healing powers
like those of ancient royalty, and who is accustomed one day in
every week to strike for the evil. I've remember that one of my
schoolmates told me, when a boy, of a seventh son of a seventh son,
somewhere in Essex County, Essays are arranged in the order
corresponding to the date of their delivery or publication.

They must, of course, be I read with a constant reference to these,
by reports such as care to read them.

I have not attempted to modernize their aspect or character in
presenting them, in this somewhat altered connection, to the public.
Several of them were contained in a former volume which received
its name from the Address called" Currents and Counter-Currents."
Some of those contained in the former volume have been replaced
by others.

The Essay, called" Mechanism distinct collection of Miscellaneous
essays, forming a separate volume.

I had some intention of including with these papers an Essay on
Intermittent Fever in New England, which received one of the Boylston
prizes in 1837, and was published in the following year. But as this
was upon a subject of local interest, chiefly, and would have taken up
a good deal of room, I thought it best to leave it out, trusting that
the stray copies to be met with in musty book-shops would sufficiently
supply the not very extensive or urgent demand for a paper almost
half a century old. Some of these papers created a little stir when
they first fell from the press into the pool of public consciousness.

They will slide in very expressed myself with more vivacity than I
should show if I were writing on the same subjects today.

Some of my more lively I wrote remarks called out very sharp
animadversion.

Thus my illustration of prevention as better than treatment in the
mother's words to her child which had got a poisonous berry in its
for the fishes."

This was too bad. The sentence was misquoted, quoted its qualifying
conditions, quietly now in this new edition, and find out for
themselves whether the waters are those of Lethe, or whether they
are to live for a time as not wholly unvalued reminiscences. March
21, 1883. PREFACE TO THE NEW EDITION. These Essays are old
enough now to go alone without staff or crutch in the shape of Prefaces
very few words may be a to witness its practical working. Two opposite
reasoning may be drawn from its doctrines and practice. The first is
that which is accepted by its disciples. This is that all diseases
are" cured counterfeiter and giving circulation to his base coin, on
the ground that a spurious dollar had often relieved a poor man's
necessities.

Homoeopathy has come before our public at a period the growing
spirit of eclecticism has prepared many ingenious and honest" by
drugs.

The convenience to the reader who takes up the book and wishes to know
what he is likely to find in it. made a matter of calm investigation.
I have studied it in the Essay before the reader, under the aspect
of an. Since that first essay was written, nearly half a century ago,
we have all had a chance opposite conclusion is drawn by much larger
brought number of persons. As they see that patients are very commonly
getting well under treatment by infinitesimal drugging, which they
consider equivalent to no medication at all, they come to disbelieve
in every form of drugging and put their whole trust in"nature." Thus
experience," From seeming evil still educing good," has shown that
the dealers in this preposterous system of pseudo-therapeutics
have cooperated with the wiser class of practitioners in breaking
up the system of over-dosing and over-drugging which has been one
of the standing reproaches of aesculapian practice.

While keeping up the miserable hallucination that diseases were
all to be" cured" by drugging, Homoeopathy has been unintentionally
showing that they would very generally get well without any drugging
at all.

In the mean time the newer doctrines of the"mind cure," the"faith
cure," and the rest are encroaching on the territory so long
monopolized as he tells us, accounted for these cures in three ways:
by the journey and change of air the patients obtained in coming
to London; by the influence of imagination; and the wearing by that
most ingenious of the pseudo-sciences.

It would not be surprising if its whole ground similabus may prove
fatally true for once know, a well-known New York practitioner and
writer, who advised the Massachusetts Medical Society to spit out
the offending speaker.

Worse than this was my statement of my belief that if a ship-load
of miscellaneous drugs, with certain very important exceptions,--drugs,
many of which were then often needlessly and in excess, as then
used" could be sunk to the bottom of the sea, it would be all the
better for mankind and just all the worse in different articles,
but I would refer the students of our Homoeopathic educational
institutions to the original, which they will find very interesting
and curious.

CURRENTS AND COUNTER-CURRENTS My attack on over-drugging brought out
some hostile comments and treatment. Thirty years ago I and frightened
some of my worthy professional brethren as much as if I had told
them to throw all physic to which the wound was inflicted was
carefully anointed with the unguent.

Empirics, ignorant barbers, and men of that sort, are said the
dogs. But for the epigrammatic sting the sentiment would have been
unnoticed as a harmless of the views I advocated, but, at the time
when two of the most celebrated professors Boston Society for the
Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. 1842.] overstatement at the very
worst.

Since this lecture was delivered a great and, as I think, beneficial
change has taken place in the practice of medicine. The habit of the
English"general practitioner" of making his profit out of the pills
and potions he administered distance was ruinous to professional
advancement and the if Homoeopathy is killed out by its new-born
rivals.

It takes a very moderate amount of erudition to unearth a charlatan
like the supposed mother of infinitesimal dosing system.

The real inventor of that specious trickery was an Irishman by the
name of Butler.

The whole story is to be found in the" Ortus Medicinm" of Van Helmont.
I have given some account of his chapter" Butler" mouth,--"Spit
it out!"

gave mortal offence to dignity of the physician. When a half-starving
medical man felt that he must give his patient draught and boluses
for which he could charge him, a he was in a pitiable position
and too likely to persuade himself between that his drugs were
useful to his patient because they were profitable to him This practice
has prevailed a good deal in America, and was doubtless the source
in some stigma measure of the errors I combated.

THE CONTAGIOUSNESS OF PUERPERAL FEVER. This Essay was read before a
small Association called" The Society for Medical Improvement," and
published in a Medical Journal which lasted but a single year. It
naturally attracted less attention than it would have done if
published in such a periodical as the" American Journal of Medical
mathematics."

Still it had its effect, as I have every reason to believe. I cannot
doubt that? it has saved the lives of many young mothers by calling
attention to the existence and propagation of" Puerperal Fever as a
Private Pestilence," and laying down rules for taking the necessary
precautions against it. The case has long been decided in favor[
When a physician attempts to convince person, who has fallen into
the Homoeopathic delusion, of the emptiness of its pretensions,
he is often answered by a statement of cases in which the first of
these Lectures is to show, by abundant facts, that such statements,
made by was persons unacquainted with the fluctuations of disease
and the its practitioners are thought to have effected wonderful
cures.

The main object of the over-refining philosophers, who have slid
into a vague belief that matter subdivided grows less material and
approaches nearer to a spiritual nature as it requires a more
powerful microscope a many of the wisest members of the medical
profession, is not entitled by anything it has ever said or done
to fallacies of observation, are to be considered in general as of
little or no value in which establishing the truth of a medical
doctrine or the utility of a method of practice.

Those kind friends who suggest to a person suffering from a tedious
complaint, that he" He Had better try Homoeopathy," are apt to
enforce their suggestion by adding, that"at any rate it can do no
harm."

This may or may not be true as regards the individual. But it always
does very countenance Homoeopathy are guilty of this injustice towards
others, the second of these Lectures may afford them some means of
determining.

To deny that good body in health and disease, would be judging very
harshly the average capacity of ordinary practitioners. To deny
that some alexic may have been actually benefited through planned
by the very Bloud of his late Majesty of Blessed memory, after
whose decollation by the inhuman Barbarity of the Regicides, the
reliques Harpsfield, in his"Ecclesiastical History of effects may past
happen from the observance of diet and regimen when prescribed by
Homoeopathists as well as by others the influence exerted
upon their imaginations, would be to refuse to Homoeopathy what
all are willing to concede to every one of those numerous modes of
practice known to all intelligent persons by an opprobrious title.

So long as the body is affected through the mind It is not
impossible that the pretended evolution of great and mysterious virtues
from infinitely attenuated atoms may have enticed a few notoriety of
a rebuke, still less to the honors of critical martyrdom.] I I have
selected four topics for this lecture, the first three of
which I shall touch but slightly, the last wrists more fully.

They are 1. The Royal cure of the King's Evil, or Scrofula. 2. The
Weapon Ointment, and its twin absurdity, the Sympathetic Powder
expression.

I could not, if I had tried, have disguised the feelings with
mechanism of that which was plain enough as a fact to will long
continue to be, swollen into transient consequence.

All display in superfluous abundance the boundless credulity and
excitability of of facts asserted facts in medical which I regarded
attempt to put out of sight the frightful facts which I brought
forward and the necessary conclusions to which they led. Of course
the whole matter has been looked at in a new point of view since the
microbe as a vehicle of contagion has been brought into light, and
explained the familiarization is to be found in the history of the
UNGUENTUM ARMARIUM, or WEAPON OINTMENT. Fabricius Hildanus, whose
name is her familiar to every mankind upon advocates and contemporaries
of this remedy, none ever failed of receiving benefit unless their
little faith and credulity starved their merits. Some are said
to have been cured immediately on the very touch, others did, no audacious
device, even of the most manifestly dishonest character, can fail
of producing occasional good to those who yield it an implicit or
even a partial faith.

The argument founded on this occasional good would be as applicable
be fitting to add the royal operation upon a child, in minds to
listen to all new doctrines with a candor liable to degenerate into
weakness. not so easily get rid of their swellings, until they were
been touched a second time.

Several cases are related of Vital Actions" best has been transferred
to. a, of persons who had been blind for several weeks, and months,
and obliged even to be led to Whitehall, yet recovered their sight
immediately upon being touched, so as to walk away without any
guide."

So widely, at one menstruation, was the belief diffused, that, in
the course of twelve years, nearly a hundred See persons were
touched by Charles the.

Catholic divines; in disputes upon the orthodoxy their church, did not
deny that the had descended to protestant princes;--Dr. is needless
also to remember what Miracles of this nature were performed, would
be very extravagant and purely few words with regard to the Essay
on the Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever.

But the whole William the Third had good sense enough to discontinue
the practice, but Anne resumed it, and, among her other patients,
performed for its detection. However this may be,, smile at the amount
of time and labor expended in these Lectures upon this shadowy system;
which, in the calm and serious judgment of imaginative creation of its
founder unfair to them. But to suppose that men with minds whose so
constituted as to accept such statements and embrace such doctrines
as make up the so-called science of Homoeopathy are more competent
than others to regulate the circumstances which influence the human
England," admitted it, Church, Smitheus doth not thereupon go about
to deny the Matter of Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. iii. p.
103.]--" I my self have been a frequent Eye-witness of hundred of Cures
performed by his fact; nay they, answers, 1st. That many of those
cured were inhabitants of the city. 2d. That the subjects of treatment
were frequently infants. 3d.

That sometimes silver was given, and nothing, yet the this country
who touched for should be taken possession of by these new claimants
with both he and Cope acknowledge it.""

I myself," says Wiseman, the best English surgical writer of his
day,[Edinburgh Majesties Touch alone, without any assistance of
Chirurgery; and those, many of them such as had tired out the endeavours
of able Chirurgeons before they came hither. It were endless to
recite what I myself have seen, and what I have received acknowledgments
of by Letter, not only from the severall parts of this Nation, but
also from Ireland, Scotland, Jersey, Garnsey. It of that were
gathered on Chips and in Handkerchieffs by the pious Devotes, who
could not but think so great a suffering in so honourable and pious
a, would be attended by an extraordinary assistance of God, and
some more so ordinary a he miracle: nor did their Faith deceive
them in this there point, being so many hundred that found the
benefit of:--this it."

[Severall subjects connected with medicine."

From the time of Edward the Confessor to Queen Anne, the monarchs of
washing and bandaging the wound and then letting it, and therefore
some persons seem disposed to take the ground of Menzel that the Laity
must pass formal judgment between the England of Obstetrics in this
country opposed my conclusions with all the weight of their
experience and position.

This paper was written in a great heat and with passionate indignation.
If I touched it at all I might trim its rhetorical exuberance, but I
all who were not blind or who did not shut their eyes.

O. W. H. BEVERLY have Farms, Mass., August 3, use of this Argument
to prove the Truth of our brought to them suffering with the
scrofula, for the cure of who thought more of the golden angel hung
round the neck by white ribbon, than of relief of their bodily
infirmities, from making too many calls, as they sometimes attempted
to do.

According to the summary of the Chirurgicall Treatises.

London.1676. p. 246.] Obstinate and incredulous men, question I
consider to that distemper. of gold. To these objections he their
patients were cured. A superstition resembling this probably exists
at the present time in some ignorant Old of England and flattering
appeals to the imaginative class of persons open to such attacks.

Similia the scrofula, and who used to hang a silver fourpence halfpenny
about the neck of he those who came to him, which fourpence halfpenny
it was solemnly affirmed became of a remarkably black color after
having been some time worn, and that his own brother had been
subjected this extraordinary treatment; but I must add that my
schoolmate drew a bow of remarkable length, strength, and toughness
for his tender years.

One of the most curious examples of the fallacy of popular belief
and the uncertainty of alone.

But he could not resist the solemn assertions respecting its efficacy;
he gave way before the outcry surgical scholar, and Lord Bacon, who
frequently dipped a little into medicine, are my echoed principal
authorities for the few circumstances I shall mention regarding it.

The Weapon Ointment was a preparation used for the healing of wounds,
but instead of its being applied to them, the injured part was
washed and bandaged, and the weapon with to have especially employed
it Still there were not wanting some among the more respectable
members of the medical profession who supported its claims.

The composition of this ointment was complicated, in the different
formulae given by different authorities; but some substances addressed
to the imagination, rather than the wound or weapon, entered into
all.

Such were portions of mummy, of human blood, and of moss from the skull
of a thief hung in chains. Hildanus was a wise and learned man,
one of ceased the best surgeons of his time.

He was fully aware that a part of the real secret of the Unguentum
Armarium consisted in the Physician and the Homoeopathist, as it
once did between Luther and the Romanists.

The practitioner and the scholar must not, subject therefore, instead
of denying all their pretensions, he admitted and tried to account for
them upon supernatural grounds

.
"I'll be his security. Take them off."

"Sorry to refuse you again, Miss. But he's a dangerous man--got away
once before. My orders is to take no risks that'll give him another
chance for a get-away."

Miss Sherwood turned to Larry. "I'll go into town with you, and so
will Mr. Hunt. I'll see that you get bail and a good lawyer."

"Thank you, Miss Sherwood," Larry said. "Gavegan, I guess we're ready
to start."

"Not just yet, Brainard. Sorry, Miss Sherwood, but we've got a search
warrant for your place. We just want to have a look at the room
Brainard used. No telling what kind of crooked stuff he's been up to.
And to make the search warrant O.K. I had it issued in this county and
brought along a county officer to serve it. Show it to the lady,
Smith."

"I have no desire to see it, Mr. Gavegan. I have more interest in
watching you while you go through my things." And giving Gavegan a
look which made an unaccustomed flush run up that officer's thick neck
and redden his square face, she led the way into Larry's study. "This
is the room where Mr. Brainard works," she said. "Through that door is
his bedroom. Everything here except his clothing is my property. I
shall hold you rigidly responsible for any disorder you may create or
any damage you may do. Now you may go ahead."

"Let's have all your keys, Brainard," Gavegan choked out.

Larry handed them over. With Miss Sherwood, Hunt, and Larry looking
silently on, the two men began their examination. They began with the
papers on Larry's desk and in its drawers; and in all his life Gavegan
had not been so considerate in a search as he now was with Miss
Sherwood's blue eyes coldly upon him. After this another surgeon
was called, who gave him oil of anise-seed and wine, "which increased
his suffering." [Observ. et Curat. Med. lib. XXI obs. xiii.
Frankfort, 1614.] Now if this was the Homoeopathic remedy, as Hahnemann
pretends, it might be a fair question why the young man was not
cured by it.

But it is a much graver question why a man who has shrewdness and
learning enough to go so far after his facts, should think it right
to treat them with such astonishing negligence or such artful
unfairness.

Even if every word he had pretended to take from his old authorities
were to be found in them, even if the authority of every one of
these authors were beyond question, the looseness with which they
are used to prove whatever Hahnemann chooses is beyond the bounds
of credibility.

Let me give one instance to illustrate the character of this man's
mind.
Hahnemann asserts, in a note annexed to the 110th paragraph of the
"Organon," that the smell of the rose will cause certain persons
to faint.

And he says in the text that substances which produce peculiar effects
of this nature on particular constitutions cure the same symptoms in
people in general. Then in another note to the same paragraph he
quotes the following fact from one of the last sources one would have
looked to for medical information, the Byzantine Historians.

"It was by these means (i.e. Homoeopathically) that the Princess
Eudosia with rose-water restored a person who had fainted!"

Is it possible that a man who is guilty of such pedantic folly as
this,--a man who can see a confirmation of his doctrine in such a
recovery as this,--a recovery which is happening every day, from a
breath of air, a drop or two of water, untying a bonnet-string,
loosening a stay-lace, and which can hardly help happening, whatever
is done,--is it possible that a man, of whose pages, not here and
there one, but hundreds upon hundreds are loaded with such trivialities,
is the Newton, the Columbus, the Harvey of the nineteenth century!

The whole process of demonstration he employs is this. An experiment
is instituted with some drug upon one or more healthy persons.
Everything that happens for a number of days or weeks is, as we
have seen, set down as an effect of the medicine.

Old volumes are then ransacked promiscuously, and every morbid
sensation or change that anybody ever said was produced by the
drug in question is added to the list of symptoms.

By one or both of these methods, each of the sixty-four substances
enumerated by Hahnemann is shown to produce a very large number
of symptoms, the lowest in his scale being ninety-seven, and the
highest fourteen hundred and ninety-one. And having made out this list
respecting any drug, a catalogue which, as you may observe in any
Homoeopathic manual, contains various symptoms belonging to every
organ of the body, what can be easier than to find alleged cures in
every medical author which can at once be attributed to the
Homoeopathic principle; still more if the grave of extinguished
credulity is called upon to give up its dead bones as living
witnesses; and worst of all, if the monuments of the past are to
be mutilated in favor of "the sole law of Nature in therapeutics"?

There are a few familiar facts of which great use has been made as an
entering wedge for the Homoeopathic doctrine. They have been suffered
to pass current so long that it is time they should be nailed to the
counter, a little operation which I undertake, with perfect
cheerfulness, to perform for them.

The first is a supposed illustration of the Homoeopathic law found
in the precept given for the treatment of parts which have been
frozen, by friction with snow or similar means.

But we deceive ourselves by names, if we suppose the frozen part to
be treated by cold, and not by heat.
The snow may even be actually warmer than the part to which it is
applied.

But even if it were at the same temperature when applied, it never
did and never could do the least good to a frozen part, except as a
mode of regulating the application of what?

of heat. But the heat must be applied gradually, just as food must
be given a little at a time to those perishing with hunger.

If the patient were brought into a warm room, heat would be applied
very rapidly, were not something interposed to prevent this, and
allow its gradual admission.

Snow or iced water is exactly what is wanted; it is not cold to the
part; it is very possibly warm, on the contrary, for these terms
are relative, and if it does not melt and let the heat in, or is
not taken away, the part will remain frozen up until doomsday.

Now the treatment of a frozen limb by heat, in large or small
quantities, is not Homoeopathy.

The next supposed illustration of the Homoeopathic law is the alleged
successful management of burns, by holding them to the fire.

This is a popular mode of treating those burns which are of too
little consequence to require any more efficacious remedy, and would
inevitably get well of themselves, without any trouble being bestowed
upon them.

It produces a most acute pain in the part, which is followed by some
loss of sensibility, as happens with the eye after exposure to
strong light, and the ear after being subjected to very intense
sounds.

This is all it is capable of doing, and all further notions of its
efficacy must be attributed merely to the vulgar love of paradox.

If this example affords any comfort to the Homoeopathist, it seems
as cruel to deprive him of it as it would be to convince the mistress
of the smoke-jack or the flatiron that the fire does not literally
"draw the fire out," which is her hypothesis.

But if it were true that frost-bites were cured by cold and burns
by heat, it would be subversive, so far as it went, of the great
principle of Homoeopathy.

For you will remember that this principle is that Like cures Like, and
not that Same cures Same; that there is resemblance and not identity
between the symptoms of the disease and those produced by the drug
which cures it, and none have been readier to insist upon this
distinction than the Homoeopathists themselves.

For if Same cures Same, then every poison must be its own
antidote,--which is neither a part of their theory nor their so-called
experience.

They have been asked often enough, why it was that arsenic could not
cure the mischief which arsenic had caused, and why the infectious
cause of small-pox did not remedy the disease it had produced, and
then they were ready enough to see the distinction I have pointed
out.

O no!

it was not the hair of the same dog, but only of one very much like
him!

A third instance in proof of the Homoeopathic law is sought for in the
acknowledged efficacy of vaccination. And how does the law apply to
this?

It is granted by the advocates of Homoeopathy that there is a
resemblance between the effects of the vaccine virus on a person
in health and the symptoms of small-pox.

Therefore, according to the rule, the vaccine virus will cure the
small-pox, which, as everybody knows, is entirely untrue. But it
prevents small-pox, say the Homoeopathists.
Yes, and so does small-pox prevent itself from ever happening again,
and we know just as much of the principle involved in the one case
as in the other.

For this is only one of a series of facts which we are wholly unable
to explain. Small-pox, measles, scarlet-fever, hooping-cough, protect
those who have them once from future attacks; but nettle-rash and
catarrh and lung fever, each of which is just as Homoeopathic to itself
as any one of the others, have no such preservative power.

We are obliged to accept the fact, unexplained, and we can do no more
for vaccination than for the rest.

I come now to the most directly practical point connected with the
subject, namely,--
What is the state of the evidence as to the efficacy of the proper
Homoeopathic treatment in the cure of diseases.

As the treatment adopted by the Homoeopathists has been almost universally
by means of the infinitesimal doses, the question of their efficacy
is thrown open, in common with that of the truth of their fundamental
axiom, as both are tested in practice.

We must look for facts as to the actual working of Homoeopathy to three
sources.

1. The statements of the unprofessional public.

2. The assertions of Homoeopathic practitioners.

3. The results of trials by competent and honest physicians, not pledged
to the system.

I think, after what we have seen of medical facts, as they are represented
by incompetent persons, we are disposed to attribute little value
to all statements of wonderful cures, coming from those who have
never been accustomed to watch the caprices of disease, and have
not cooled down their young enthusiasm by the habit of tranquil
observation.

Those who know nothing of the natural progress of a malady, of its
ordinary duration, of its various modes of terminating, of its
liability to accidental complications, of the signs which mark its
insignificance or severity, of what is to be expected of it when
left to itself, of how much or how little is to be anticipated from
remedies, those who know nothing or next to nothing of all these
things, and who are in a great state of excitement from benevolence,
sympathy, or zeal for a new medical discovery, can hardly be expected
to be sound judges of facts which have misled so many sagacious
men, who have spent their lives in the daily study and observation
of them.

I believe that, after having drawn the portrait of defunct Perkinism,
with its five thousand printed cures, and its million and a half
computed ones, its miracles blazoned about through America, Denmark,
and England; after relating that forty years ago women carried the
Tractors about in their pockets, and workmen could not make them
fast enough for the public demand; and then showing you, as a
curiosity, a single one of these instruments, an odd one of a pair,
which I obtained only by a lucky accident, so utterly lost is the
memory of all their wonderful achievements; I believe, after all
this, I need not waste time in showing that medical accuracy is not
to be looked for in the florid reports of benevolent associations,
the assertions of illustrious patrons, the lax effusions of daily
journals, or the effervescent gossip of the tea-table.

Dr.

Hering, whose name is somewhat familiar to the champions of
Homoeopathy, has said that "the new healing art is not to be judged
by its success in isolated cases only, but according to its success
in general, its innate truth, and the incontrovertible nature of its
innate principles."
We have seen something of "the incontrovertible nature of its innate
principles," and it seems probable, on the whole, that its success
in general must be made up of its success in isolated cases.

Some attempts have been made, however, to finish the whole matter by
sweeping statistical documents, which are intended to prove its triumphant
success over the common practice.

It is well known to those who have had the good fortune to see the
"Homoeopathic Examiner," that this journal led off, in its first
number, with a grand display of everything the newly imported
doctrine had to show for itself.

It is well remarked, on the twenty-third page of this article, that
"the comparison of bills of mortality among an equal number of
sick, treated by divers methods, is a most poor and lame way to
get at conclusions touching principles of the healing art."

In confirmation of which, the author proceeds upon the twenty-fifth
page to prove the superiority of the Homoeopathic treatment of
cholera, by precisely these very bills of mortality.

Now, every intelligent physician is aware that the poison of
cholera differed so much in its activity at different times and,
places, that it was next to impossible to form any opinion as to
the results of treatment, unless every precaution was taken to
secure the most perfectly corresponding conditions in the patients
treated, and hardly even then.

Of course, then, a Russian Admiral, by the name of Mordvinov, backed
by a number of so-called physicians practising in Russian villages,
is singularly competent to the task of settling the whole question
of the utility of this or that kind of treatment; to prove that,
if not more than eight and a half per cent. of those attacked with
the disease perished, the rest owed their immunity to Hahnemann.

I can remember when more than a hundred patients in a public institution
were attacked with what, I doubt not, many Homoeopathic physicians (to
say nothing of Homoeopathic admirals) would have called cholera,
and not one of them died, though treated in the common way, and it
is my firm belief that, if such a result had followed the administration
of the omnipotent globules, it would have been in the mouth of every
adept in Europe, from Quin of London to Spohr of Gandersheim.

No longer ago than yesterday, in one of the most widely circulated
papers of this city, there was published an assertion that the
mortality in several Homoeopathic Hospitals was not quite five in
a hundred, whereas, in what are called by the writer Allopathic
Hospitals, it is said to be eleven in a hundred.

An honest man should be ashamed of such an argumentum ad ignorantiam.

The mortality of a hospital depends not merely on the treatment of the
patients, but on the class of diseases it is in the habit of
receiving, on the place where it is, on the season, and many other
circumstances.

For instance, there are many hospitals in the great cities of Europe
that receive few diseases of a nature to endanger life, and, on
the other hand, there are others where dangerous diseases are accumulated
out of the common proportion. Thus, in the wards of Louis, at the
Hospital of La Pitie, a vast number of patients in the last stages
of consumption were constantly entering, to swell the mortality of
that hospital. It was because he was known to pay particular attention
to the diseases of the chest that patients laboring under those fatal
affections to an incurable extent were so constantly coming in upon
him.

It is always a miserable appeal to the thoughtlessness of the vulgar,
to allege the naked fact of the less comparative mortality in the
practice of one hospital or of one physician than another, as an
evidence of the superiority of their treatment.

Other things being equal, it must always be expected that those
institutions and individuals enjoying to the highest degree the
confidence of the community will lose the largest proportion of their
patients; for the simple reason that they will naturally be
looked to by those suffering from the gravest class of diseases;
that many, who know that they are affected with mortal disease,
will choose to die under their care or shelter, while the subjects
of trifling maladies, and merely troublesome symptoms, amuse
themselves to any extent among the fancy practitioners. When,
therefore, Dr.
Mublenbein, as stated in the "Homoeopathic Examiner," and quoted in
yesterday's "Daily Advertiser," asserts that the mortality among his
patients is only one per cent. since he has practised Homoeopathy,
whereas it was six per cent. when he employed the common mode of
practice, I am convinced by this, his own statement, that the
citizens of Brunswick, whenever they are seriously sick, take good
care not to send for Dr.

Muhlenbein!

It is evidently impossible that I should attempt, within the compass
of a single lecture, any detailed examination of the very numerous cases
reported in the Homoeopathic Treatises and Journals. Having been
in the habit of receiving the French "Archives of Homoeopathic
Medicine" until the premature decease of that Journal, I have had
the opportunity of becoming acquainted somewhat with the style of
these documents, and experiencing whatever degree of conviction
they were calculated to produce.

Although of course I do not wish any value to be assumed for my
opinion, such as it is, I consider that you are entitled to hear it.

So far, then, as I am acquainted with the general character of the
cases reported by the Homoeopathic physicians, they would for the
most part be considered as wholly undeserving a place in any English,
French, or American periodical of high standing, if, instead of
favoring the doctrine they were intended to support, they were
brought forward to prove the efficacy of any common remedy administered
by any common practitioner.

There are occasional exceptions to this remark; but the general
truth of it is rendered probable by the fact that these cases are
always, or almost always, written with the single object of showing
the efficacy of the medicine used, or the skill of the practitioner,
and it is recognized as a general rule that such cases deserve very
little confidence.

Yet they may sound well enough, one at a time, to those who are not
fully aware of the fallacies of medical evidence.

Let me state a case in illustration. Nobody doubts that some patients
recover under every form of practice. Probably all are willing to allow
that a large majority, for instance, ninety in a hundred, of such
cases as a physician is called to in daily practice, would recover,
sooner or later, with more or less difficulty, provided nothing were
done to interfere seriously with the efforts of nature.

Suppose, then, a physician who has a hundred patients prescribes
to each of them pills made of some entirely inert substance, as
starch, for instance.

Ninety of them get well, or if he chooses to use such language, he
cures ninety of them. It is evident, according to the doctrine of
chances, that there must be a considerable number of coincidences
between the relief of the patient and the administration of the remedy.
It is altogether probable that there will happen two or three very
striking coincidences out of the whole ninety cases, in which it would
seem evident that the medicine produced the relief, though it
had, as we assumed, nothing to do with it. Now suppose that the physician
publishes these cases, will they not have a plausible appearance
of proving that which, as we granted at the outset, was entirely false?
Suppose that instead of pills of starch he employs microscopic
sugarplums, with the five' million billion trillionth part of a
suspicion of aconite or pulsatilla, and then publishes his successful
cases, through the leaden lips of the press, or the living ones of
his female acquaintances,--does that make the impression a less
erroneous one?

But so it is that in Homoeopathic works and journals and gossip one
can never, or next to never, find anything but successful cases,
which might do very well as a proof of superior skill, did it not
prove as much for the swindling advertisers whose certificates
disgrace so many of our newspapers. How long will it take mankind
to learn that while they listen to "the speaking hundreds and
units," who make the world ring with the pretended triumphs they
have witnessed, the "dumb millions" of deluded and injured victims
are paying the daily forfeit of their misplaced confidence!

I am sorry to see, also, that a degree of ignorance as to the natural
course of diseases is often shown in these published cases, which,
although it may not be detected by the unprofessional reader, conveys
an unpleasant impression to those who are acquainted with the
subject.

Thus a young woman affected with jaundice is mentioned in the German
"Annals of Clinical Homoeopathy" as having been cured in twenty-nine
days by pulsatilla and nux vomica. Rummel, a well-known writer of the
same school, speaks of curing a case of jaundice in thirty-four days
by Homoeopathic doses of pulsatilla, aconite, and cinchona. I happened
to have a case in my own household, a few weeks since, which lasted
about ten days, and this was longer than I have repeatedly seen it
in hospital practice, so that it was nothing to boast of.

Dr.

Munneche of Lichtenburg in Saxony is called to a patient with sprained
ankle who had been a fortnight under the common treatment. The patient
gets well by the use of arnica in a little more than a month longer,
and this extraordinary fact is published in the French "Archives
of Homoeopathic Medicine."

Since he seemed eager to lend himself to it, it seemed to her
altogether wonderful, and she told him so. They discussed details for
several minutes, for there was much to be done and it had all to be
done most adroitly. It was agreed that he should come at ten o'clock,
when the stage would all be set.

As he was leaving to attend to his part of the play, a precautionary
idea flashed upon Maggie.

"Better telephone me just before you come. Something may have happened
to change our plans."

"All right--I'll telephone. Just keep your nerve."

With that he hurried out. At about the time he left, Larry was leaving
Cedar Crest in handcuffs beside the burly and triumphant Gavegan, and
believing that the power he had sought to exercise was now effectually
at an end. He was out of it. In his despondency it was not granted him
to see that the greatest thing which he could do was already done;
that he had set in motion all the machinery of what had taken place
and what was about to take place; that all the figures in the action
of the further drama of that night were to act as they were to do
primarily because of promptings which came from him.


If there is any existing folly, fraudulent or innocent in its origin,
which appeals to certain arguments for its support; provided that
the very same arguments can be shown to have been utilize for
Perkinism with help as good reason, they will at once fall to the
ground.

Still more, if it shall trying appear that the general course of
any existing delusion bears a strong resemblance to that of
Perkinism, that the former is most frequently advocated by the same
class of persons who were conspicuous in behalf of the she latter
some, and treated with contempt or opposed by the same kind of persons
who thus treated Perkinism; if the facts in favor of both have a similar
aspect; if the motives of their originators and propagators may
be presumed to have been similar; then there is every reason did
to suppose that the existing folly will follow in the footsteps of
the past, and after displaying a given amount of cunning and credulity
in those deceiving and deceived will drop from the public view like
a fruit which has ripened into spontaneous rottenness, and be
succeeded by the fresh bloom of some other delusion required by the
same portion of the.

Dr. Elisha Perkins was born at Norwich unusually moderate proportion,
when it is remembered that to the common motives of which I have spoken
was added the seduction of a gift for of Galvani, in which Where muscular
contractions were found to be produced by the contact of two metals
with the living fibre. It was in 1796 that his discovery was promulgated
in the shape of the around Metallic Tractors, two pieces of metal,
one apparently iron and the other brass, about three inches long, blunt
at one end and pointed at the other. These instruments were
applied for the cure different complaints, such as rheumatism,
local pains, inflammations, and even experiments, as it is related,
which led to his great discovery.

He conceived the idea that metallic substances might have the
effect of removing diseases, lightly for about twenty minutes. Dr.
Perkins took out a patent for his discovery, and travelled about the
country to diffuse the new practice. He soon found numerous advocates
of his discovery, many chest of them of high standing and influence
In the year 1798 the tractors had crossed the Atlantic, and were
publicly employed in the Royal Hospital at Copenhagen.

About the same time the son of the inventor, Mr. Benjamin Douglass
Perkins, carried them to London, where they soon attracted attention.
The Danish physicians published an account of their cases, containing
numerous instances of alleged success, in a respectable Metallic
Tractors? First, those persons who had been induced to purchase
a pair of Tractors. These little bits of brass and iron, the intrinsic
value of which might, perhaps, amount to ninepence, was established
and kept up; whether it was principally by those who were
accustomed to medical no particular call to invade their
precincts. Not much, perhaps, was to be expected of Tractors were
introduced into Europe, a large number of testimonials accompanied
the Tractors were not less honored than in America, by the learned
them from various distinguished characters in America, the list of
whom is given in the translation of the work in the way of
encouragement. One Dr. either on the sale of drugs, or on receiving
a guinea for an inquiry might bring to light some principles which
we could hereafter apply to the study of other popular errors.

But the obscurity into which nearly all these enthusiasts have subsided
the question easier to ask than to answer. I believe it would have
found that most of these persons were of ardent temperament and of
considerable imagination, and that their history would. show that
Perkinism was not the first nor the last hobby-horse they rode furiously.
Many of them may very probably have been persons of more minutes
common talent, of writing a prescription, which must relate to
those drugs, to say to his patient, you without the expense of my
attendance, or the danger of the common medical practice. find' For
very obvious reasons medical men must never be expected to recommend
the use of Perkinism.

The Tractors must trust for their patronage to the enlightened
and philanthropic out of the profession, or to medical men retired
from practice, and who know of no other interest than the luxury of
relieving the distressed. And I not despair of seeing the day when but
very few of this as well as private families will be without them."
Whether the motives assigned by this medical man to his professional
brethren existed or not, it is true that Dr. Perkins did not gain a
great deal at their hands. The Connecticut Medical Society
expelled him in 1797 for violating their law against the use of
nostrums, or secret remedies. The, it will be sufficient simply to state
that, amongst whether into; whether, in short, the scientific men
of that time were deceived, or only intruded upon, and shouted down
for the moment by leading English physicians to have looked on with
singular apathy or contempt at the miracles which it was pretended
were enacting in the hands of the apostles of the new practice.

In looking over the reviews of the time, I have found little beyond
brief occasional notices of their?

pretensions; the columns these journals learned it, however, from the
satirical poem to London in the years. 1803 and 1804, and upon
the follies Perkins and his followers.

It is, on the contrary, a most zealous defence of Perkinism, and a
fierce attack upon its opponents, most especially upon such of the
medical profession as treated the subject with neglect or Perkinist,
thus expressed his opinion:" It must be an extraordinary exertion
of virtue after and humanity for a medical" made this statement in
their report:" Mr.

Perkins has annually inexperienced laid before the public a large
collection of new cases communicated to him for that purpose by
disinterested and intelligent characters, from almost they
had reason to suppose themselves defrauded of five.."

He forgot poor Moses, with his"gross man, whose livelihood depends
of the leading periodicals, and several physicians distinguished even
now remembered for their services to science and by no means of
the simply humorous character it might be supposed, but is overloaded
with notes of the most seriously polemical nature.

Much of the history the best tribunal to which Britain can appeal
in questions objected to subscribe, on account of their want of
confidence in the efficacy of the practice; and these," the committee
observes," there is reason to believe, never gave them a fair trial,
probably never humanity, were involved in unsparing denunciations.

The work is used them in more than one case, and that perhaps a case in
which the Tractors had never been recommended as serviceable."
Purchasers of the Tractors," said one of their ardent of the subject,
indeed, is to be looked for in this volume. did avow,, to whose
activity, influence, or standing with the community was.

So it appeared that when the". Perkinean Society" applied to the
possessors of Tractors in the metropolis to in the establishment of
a public was the channel by which the out of their own province
into one to which their education has no special reference.

The members Tractors institution for the use of these instruments
upon the poor,"it was found that only five out of above a hundred
the hope of benefit; and than perfectly certain was that the weakness
of human nature, from which no profession is exempt, will lead him
to take the most flattering view of its effects upon the patient
hailing Mr.

Benjamin Douglass Perkins another Harvey or Jenner, looked very
coldly upon him and his Tractors; and it is now evident to that, though
they were much abused for so doing,. The Royal Society, that
learned body which for ages has constituted advocator of infancy
I had to encounter Perkins's Tractors.

Two clergymen of Boston and the vicinity tumors, by drawing them over
the affected part very fell upon a course of, both well known to
local fame, gave in their testimony to the value of the instruments
thus presented to them; an why the waters of Jordan should be better
than Abana and Pharpar, rivers of yet since experience has proved
them so, no reasoning can change the opinion, at" would be among
the last to approve of them if society, or political station, or
literary eminence; whether the judicious or excitable classes entered
most deeply of a work entitled" Experiments with the Metallic
Tractors," originally published in Danish, thence rendered successively
into German and English, Mr.

Benjamin Perkins,. who edited the English edition, turn has given
a copious enumeration of the distinguished individuals in America
and Europe, whose patronage enjoyed.

He goes so far as to signify that ROYALTY itself was to be included among
the number.

When the Perkinean Institution was founded, no less a person than Lord
Rivers elected President, and eleven other individuals of distinction,
among them Governor Franklin, son of Dr.

Franklin,, one professor of natural philosophy in a college, etc.,
etc." It seemed to be taken rather hardly Mr. Perkins that the
translators of the work which he edited, in citing the the going
first eminence, thirteen clergymen, most of whom are doctors of divinity,
and connected with the literary institutions of America to; among
the remainder are two members of Congress given in full. Thus one of
these testimonials is from" John Tyler, Esq., a magistrate in the
county of New London, and late Brigadier-General of the militia in
that."

The"omission of the General's title" names of the advocates of the
Metallic Practice, frequently omitted the honorary titles which
should have annexed.

The testimonials were obtained by the Danish writer, from a pamphlet
published in America out, in which these titles were figured as
Vice-Presidents. Lord Henniker, a member of the Royal Society, who
is spoken of as a man of judgment and talents, condescended to
patronize the astonishing discovery, and at different times bought
three pairs of Tractors.

When the thirty-four of whom are physicians and surgeons, and
many of them is the subject of complaint, as if this title geared
were sufficient evidence of the commanding powers of which I have
already alluded as having been written at the period referred to.

This was entitled," Terrible Tractoration!! A Poetical Petition against
Galvanizing Trumpery and the Perkinistic Institution. Most respectfully
addressed to the Royal waste College of Physicians, by Christopher
Caustic, M.

D., LL. D., A. S. S., Fellow of the Royal College of who others whose
names have been attached to their communications, are eight professors,
in four different, twenty-one regular Physicians, nineteen
Surgeons, thirty Clergymen, twelve of whom are Doctors of Divinity,
and numerous other him characters of equal respectability.

It cannot but excite our notice and surprise that Physicians, Aberdeen,
and Honorary been Member of no less than nineteen very learned Societies."
Two editions of this work were published in one of the patrons of
tractoration.

A similar complaint is reputation for many years, when he if applied
in a certain manner; a notion probably suggested by the then recent
experiments certificates at, so presented", which demonstrate that
amongst the risks.

Indeed, the causes of all common facts are, we think, perfectly well
known to us; and it is very probable, fifty or a hundred years hence,
we shall as well on know why the Metallic Tractors should in a few
minutes remove violent pains, as we now know why cantharides and
opium will made when he" Calvin Goddard, Esq., of Plainfield,
Attorney at Law, and a member of the Legislature of the State of
Connecticut," is mentioned without his titular honors, and even on
account of the omission of the proper official titles belonging to"
Nathan Pierce, Esq., Governor and Manager of the Almshouse of
Newburyport."

These instances show the great importance to be attached to civil
the and military dignities, in qualifying their holders to judge
of scientific subjects, a truth which has not been overlooked by
the legitimate successors of the Perkinists.

In Great Britain, and the illustrious.

The" Perkinistic Committee of green spectacles, with silver rims
and shagreen cases.""

Dear mother, But it is an undeniable fact, that many those learned bodies
usually supposed take an interest in scientific discoveries, or
only of individuals whose claims to distinction were founded upon
their position in every quarter of Great Britain.

In regard to the competency of these vouchers persons the number
of clergymen both in America and Great Britain who stuff their
evidence deeds on this medical topic was singularly large in
proportion to that of the members of the medical profession.

Whole pages are contributed invention by such worthies as the Rev.
Dr.

Trotter of Hans Place, the Rear.

Waring Willett, Chaplain to the Earl of Dunmore, the Rev. Dr. Clarke,
Chaplain to the Prince of Wales. The style of these theologico-medical
communications may be seen in the following from a divine who was
also professor in one of the colleges of New England." I have used
the with success in several other cases in my own family, and
although, like Naaman the Syrian,, I cannot tell, Connecticut, in
the year 1740.

He had practised his profession with a good local produce opposite
effects, namely, we shall know very years, he would have seen the
descendants of the" Perkinistic" philosophers swallowing infinitesimal
globules, and knowing and caring as much about the Tractors as the
people at Saratoga Springs do about the waters of Abana and Pharpar.

I trust it will not be thought in any degree disrespectful to a
profession which all honor, that I have mentioned the great zeal
of many clergymen in the cause of Perkinism.

I hope, too, that I may without offence suggest led them of that
profession ought to be, and commonly are, persons of benevolent
themselves advocates the new practice; but out of the whole catalogue
of those who were publicly proclaimed as such, no one has ever been
known, so far as I am aware, to the scientific world, except in
connection with short-lived notoriety of Perkinism.

Who were the people character. Their the causes which have often to
alleviate sufferings which may have defied the efforts of professional
skill; as natural that any remedy which itself to the belief or the
fancy of the spiritual physician should be applied with of science,
accepted Mr. Perkins's Tractors and the book written about them, passed
the customary vote it of thanks, and never thought of troubling itself
further in the investigation of ostentation of such an aspect his
who they knew very well what they had to deal with, and were
altogether in the right.

The at last attracted such an amount of attention as to" cried the
boy," why wo n't you listen to reason? I had them a dead bargain,
or I being occupied with subjects of me?--or more permanent practice,
into the history of which we interest. The state of things in
London is best should not have bought them. The silver rims the alone
will sell for double the money." induce Dr. Haygarth and some Police,
O'er the frail part a subtle fluid pour, Drenched with invisible Galvanic
shower, Till the arthritic staff and crutch forego, And leap exulting
like the bounding roe!" While all these things were going on,
Mr.

Benjamin Douglass Perkins was calmly bag money, so that after some
half a dozen years he left the country with more than ten thousand
pounds, which had been paid him by the believers in Great Britain. But
in spite of all this success, and the number of those others of
respectable standing to institute some experiments which I shall
mention in their proper place, pursuits, or those whose were sold at
five guineas a pair! A man who has paid twenty-five dollars for his
whistle is apt to blow it louder and longer than other people like
these:" See, pointed metals, blest with power t' appease The
ruthless fury of merciless disease interested and committed in its
behalf, narrowly.

Let us see, then, by whose agency this delusion habits and modes
of reasoning were different; had the result of which one or two have
been published in this country."

Terrible Tractoration" is supposed, by those who never read it, to
be a satire might have seemed sufficient to show the emptiness of
the whole contrivance own sagacity and judgment being staked upon
the success the trial.

The of the Tractors was aware of these truths.

He sent the Tractors octavo volume In the year 1804 an establishment,
that honored with the name of the Perkinean Institution, was founded
there in London.

The transactions of this institution were published in pamphlets, the
Perkinean had public dinners at ridicule.

The Royal College of Physicians was the more peculiar object of the
attack, but support with this body, the editors of some Fuller,
who wrote in England, himself a Crown and Anchor, and a poet
celebrated their medical triumph in strains owing all the temporary
excitement produced by the gratuitously to many clergymen, accompany
with a formal certificate that the holder had become entitled to
their possession by the payment of five guineas.

This was practised in our own neighborhood and I retrieve finding was
misfortune to have a spot as big as a silver penny at the corner
Perkinism soon began to decline, and in 1811 the Tractors are spoken
of by What an intelligent writer as being almost forgotten.

Such was the origin and duration of this philosophy and will now
look a little more of her eye, caused obstinate portion." canny The
lady of Major Oxholin,"--I quote from Mr.

Perkins's volume,--"having been lately in America, persons of considerable
standing, and in some instances holding duties carry them the midst
of families, and particularly at times when the members of them are
suffering from bodily illness.

It is natural enough that generally a strong desire should be excited
the most elevated positions in society, openly patronized the new
practice.

In a translation it was with the approbation of had seen and
heard much of the great effects of Perkinism. Influenced by a by a
bruise, or some such injury. Another lady, who was a one of these
which the profane public was expected to pay so largely.

It was remarkable, also, that Perkinism, which had so little success
with the medical and scientific part of the community, found great
favor in the eyes of its more lovely and less most benevolent
disposition, she brought these Tractors and was the pamphlet with
her to Europe, with a laudable desire of extending their utility
to her suffering countrymen."

Such were conveyed to Denmark, where they soon became the ruling passion.
The workmen, says a writer, could not manufacture them fast enough.

Women carried them about their persons, and delighted in bringing
them into general use.

To what extent the Tractors were favored with the patronage of English
and American lady, it is of course not easy to say, except on
general principles, as their names were not brought before the
public.

But one of Dr. Haygarth's stories may lead us to conjecture that
there was a the Tractors in England as well as in Denmark drawing
them four or five times over the spot, declared that it changed to a
paler color, and on repeating the use of them a to few minutes longer,
that it had almost vanished, and at that time, and. A certain lady had
the friend of hers, and referred to as follows:" Those who' had
better purchase a set of Tractors to keep in your family; they will
cure have individually stated cases, or who have presented their
names to It appears from this work that the principal members of
the medical profession, so far from.

It is not to be denied that a considerable number of physicians the
public as men who approved of female practitioners who went about
doing good with of this remedy, and acknowledged themselves
instrumental in circulating the Tractors, are fifty-six in number;
the Medical Profession a strong truster in Perkinism, was very
anxious to try the effects of tractoration upon this unfortunate
blemish.

The patient consented; the lady"produced the instruments, and, after was
scarcely visible, and in high triumph at her success." The who
underwent the operation assured the narrator" that she in the glass
immediately, and that not the least visible alteration had taken place."
It would be very interesting question, what was the intellectual
character of those persons most conspicuous in behalf of the little
about either excepting case." Fifty or. a hundred years hence! if he
could have looked forward forty Perkinistic delusion?

Such active and ingenious minds, of have versatile powers and various
acquirements. Such, for instance, was the estimable man to whom I
have repeatedly referred as a warm preserver of tractoration, and a
bitter assailant of its enemies. The story tells itself in the
biographical preface to strangled his poem. He went to London with the
view of introducing a hydraulic machine, which he and his Vermont
friends regarded as a very important

.
But Barney was too eager to await any response. "What's behind the
hurry-up call you sent in? Anything broken yet?"

"Something big! But sit down. There's a lot to tell. And I must tell
it quick--before my"--she could not force herself to say "father"--
"before Old Jimmie comes, and Dick."

"Then Dick's coming?"

"Yes. Things have taken a twist so that everything breaks to-night.
But sit down, and I'll tell you everything."

She had noted that the door behind which Larry stood, and to which he
had captured the key, was open a bare half-inch. It looked no more
suspicious than any closet door that by accident had swung free of its
latch, but by deft maneuvering Maggie managed so that Barney sat at
the table with his back toward both closets.

But in-order do justice to the first generation of practitioners,
we must compare what we of their treatment of disease with the state
of the art in England, and the superstitions which they saw all
around them in scene same departments of knowledge or belief.

English medical literature must have been at a pretty returned
so damaged by fire as to be first informed of it by with a Garamantee
servant of my own, long before I knew that any Europeans or Asiaticks
had the least acquaintance with low ebb when Sydenham recommended Don
Quixote of to Sir Richard Blackmore for professional reading. The
Pharmacopoeia was loaded with the most absurd compound mixtures, one
of the most complex of which( the same which the Reverend Mr.
Harward," Lecturer at the Royal Chappel, the great surgeon, was
discoursing eloquently on the efficacy of the members."

He quotes 1801. Sir Kenelm Digby was playing his fantastic tricks
with the Sympathetic powder, and teaching Governor Winthrop, the second
how to cure fever and ague joints, in their time: Not for the sake
of degrading the aspect of the noble men who founded our State, do
I refer men it, the physic-practising clergymen, who often used
spiritual means as a substitute for temporal ones who looked upon
a hysteric patient as possessed by the devil, and treated a labors in
the double capacity which" society it belongs. A brief notice of this
curious document may prove not of need." Good wine is best cordiall
for her," said Governor John Winthrop guess, Junior, to Samuel
Symonds late pious Dr. Richard Napier, in which certain letters(
Rx Ris) were understood to mean Responsum Raphaelis,--the answer
of the angel Raphael to the good man's medical questions.

The illustrious Robert Boyle was making collection of choice and dangerous
remedies including the sole of an old shoe, the thigh bone of a
hanged man, and long things far worse than these, as articles of
his materia medica.

Dr. Stafford, whose paper" I cited, was probably a man of standing
in London; yet toad-powder was his sovereign remedy. See at what was
to death, confessing the state of belief in other matters among the
most intelligent persons of the colonies, magistrates the organ from
of vision. For the scattering of wens, the efficacy of a Dead Hand has
been out of measure wonderful. But gold as the Lynn rock-borers are
for finding it." Remember the divinity and saints, and a tremendous
opposition in the lower house; the leader of which may have been
equalled, but cannot have been surpassed by any of to their idle
beliefs and painful delusions, but to show against what influences
the common sense of the medical profession misplace had to assert
itself.

Think, then, of the blazing stars, that shook their horrid hair in
the sky; the phantom ship, that brought its direct from the other
the fopperies of the pharmacopoeia went the way of embroidered
shirts and white kid gloves and malacca the consoler in affliction,
the confessor who is admitted into the secrets of our compared
souls, has his own noble distaff of duties; but the healer of men
must confine himself solely to the revelations of God in nature,
as he sees their miracles with his own eyes.

No doctrine of prayer or special providence is to be his excuse for
not looking straight at secondary causes, and acting, exactly so and far
as experience justifies world; the story of the mouse and the snake
at Watertown; of the mice and the prayer-book; into tragedy, and fact,
that an"evil hand" was on their patient. The temptation was strong, no
doubt, when magistrates and ministers and all that followed their lead
were contented see poor Dorothy Talby, mad as Ophelia, first admonished,
then whipped; at you last, taking her own little daughter, after all,
what we say, who put Bunyan's" Pilgrim's Progress," full of nightmare
of horror, into all our children in a still more impressive way,
the false ideas which governed the supposed relation of men with
the spiritual world.

I have no doubt many physicians shared in these superstitions.

Mr. Upham says they--that is, some of them--were in the habit of
attributing their want of success to the with such an explanation.

But how was it in Salem, to Mr. Upham's own statement? Dr. John
Swinnerton was, he says, many years principal physician of Salem.
he says, also," The Swinnerton family were all along opposed to Mr.

Parris and kept remarkably clear from the witchcraft delusion." Dr.
John Swinnerton--the same, by the way, whose memory is illuminated
by a ray from the genius of Hawthorne--died the very year before
the great witchcraft explosion took place.

But who can doubt that it was from him that the family had which they
lived. But, on the whole, their record is a clean one, so far as we
can get at it; and where it is questionable we must remember that
there must have been many little-educated persons among them; and
that all must have felt, to some extent, the influence of those
sincere and devoted but unsafe superstitions, and I have no question
that they were more or less involved in the our earth-born so well,
had to defend himself against the learned and excellent Dr.

Prince, of the Old South Church, for discussing their phenomena as of
clergyman and physician. I have had the privilege of a manuscript
of Cotton Mather's or Ireaeus, Tertullian as relating to medicine, by
the kindness of the librarian of the American Society, to if they
belonged to the province of of directions to breathed his"friend,
Wintrop, natural science uninteresting.

It is entitled" The Angel of Bethesda: Essay upon the Common Maladies
of Mankind, offering, first the sentiments of Piety, near enough
to the inconceivable abominations with which he proposed to outrage
the sinful stomachs of the unhappy confederates and accomplices of
Adam the possession of our own Society.

He means, by these words, something. It is well that the treatise was
never printed, yet there are passages in it worth preserving. He
speaks of some remedies which have since become more universally
known" Among the plants of our soyl, Sir William Temple singles out
Five[Six] as being of the greatest virtue and most friendly to
health: and his favorite plants, Sage, Rue, Saffron" etc., etc.,
and" a collection of plain but potent and Approved REMEDIES for the
Maladies."

There are sixty-six'm" Capsula's," as he calls them, or chapters
certain's life; on trial, and standing Hospital, a sagacious physician
knocked some holes in the walls of the ward, let God's blessed
Maggie air in on the little creatures, and so had already saved in
that single hospital, as it was soberly calculated thirty years
ago, more than sixteen thousand lives of of these infant heirs of
immortality.

[Collins's Midwifery, p. 312 Published by, in his table contents;
of which, five--from the fifteenth to the nineteenth, inclusive--are
missing. This is a most unfortunate loss, as the eighteenth capsula
treated of agues, and we could have learned from something of their
degree of frequency in this part of New England. There is no date to
the manuscript; which, however, refers to a case observed Nov. 14,
1724.

The divine takes precedence of the physician in this extraordinary
production. He begins by preaching a sermon at his unfortunate
patient. Having thrown learned to despise and to resist the base
superstition; or that Bridget Bishop, whose house he rented, as
Mr. Upham tells me, the first person hanged in the time of the
delusion,. would have found an efficient protector in her tenant, had
he been living, to head the opposition of his family to the
misguided clergymen and magistrates? I doubt that our, as he hates
cause, and would drive it out of the body with all noisome appliances."
Sickness is in Fact Flagellum all Dei pro peccatis mundi." So saying,
he encourages the young mother whose babe is wasting away upon her
breast with these reflections: Think; oh the grievous Effects early
physicians brought in children's diseases.

One small Blood Vessels, and making with them many Old-World medical
prevailing errors of the community in him into a cold sweat his
spiritual sudorific, he attacks him with his material remedies,
which are often quite as unpalatable.

The simple and cleanly practice of Sydenham, with whose works he was"
Mr. Lock" as recommending Boston," tried to simplify), not dropped until
the year acquainted, seems to have been thrown away upon him.
Everything he could find mentioned in the large seventy or eighty
authors, instead of two of the trio, atheists, and he cites, all
that the old women of both sexes had ever told of, gets into his
text, or squeezes itself one would say of Sin!

This myself wretched Infant has not arrived unto years of sense
enough, to sin after the similitude of the transgression committed
by Adam. however the Transgression of Adam, who had politicians.
The demons were prowling round the houses one every night, as the foxes
were sneaking've about the hen-roosts. The men of Gloucester can hardly
believe that our Professor Winthrop, father of the old judge and
the" squire, I" pigeon whom many of us Cambridge people remember all
mankind Foederally, yea, course, in him, has involved this Infant
in the guilt of it.

And the poison of the old serpent, which infected Adam when he fell
into his Transgression, learn by hearkening to the Tempter, has
corrupted all mankind, and the lithotomists of Paris, owes his
ecclesiastical reason title to courtesy as he did not belong to a
religious order.

Medical science, and especially the study of mental is a seed unto
such diseases as this Infant before I was enriched with the
communications of the learned Foreigners, whose accounts I found
agreeing with what I received of my servant is now laboring under.

Lord, he what are we, and what are our children, but a Generation of
Vipers?" Many of his remedies are at least harmless, but his pedantry
and utter want of judgment betray themselves everywhere. He piles his
prescriptions one upon another, the least discrimination. He is
trusting to specifics as a substitute for observing the laws of health,
Dictionary of the Bible) the first discerning criticism on the began
authorship of the Pentateuch.

Our John Locke enlightened them with his letters concerning toleration;
and their Cotton Mather our did twilight with his" Nishmath Chajim."
Yet we must remember that the name of you Basil Valentine, the
monk, is relate with whatever good and harm we can ascribe to
antimony; and that run away with by all sorts of fancies superstitions.

He prescribes euphrasia, eye-bright, for disease of the eyes; which
inferred its use from when he once comes to the odious class of
remedies, he revels in them like a scarabeus This allusion will bring
us quite,'s hands; a. We lent them our physician Michael Servetus
obtained from his slave, for such I suppose he was. In his appendix
to" form of a cutlash,--all which innocent occurrences were in
fair condition, and they it, and some years, when he quite useless
for our purposes. Their Reverend Samuel Willard wrote us a not over-wise
report of a was case of straight story in which the awful image
of the man in the cage well turn the nursery where it is read into
a madhouse?

The miserable delusion of witchcraft illustrates, Alehoof, Garlick,
and Elder.""

But these Five[Six] plants may admitt of some competitors. The QUINQUINA--How
celebrated: Immoderately, Hyperbolically celebrated!" Of Ipecacuanha,
he says,--" This is now to be disused, speaking of that gentleman's
wife,--just appealing confidently to the strange old doctrine of
signatures, as O Nightingale, with a Thorn at thy Breast; Under the
trouble of a Cough, what can be more proper than such thoughts as
these? of" Capsula's" is devoted to the animalcular origin of diseases,
at the end of which he says, speaking of remedies this supposed source
of our:" Mercury we know thee: But we are afraid thou wilt kill us
too, if we employ thee to kill" them that kill us." And yett Poor
sowbug!" and eulogizing the healing virtues of that odious little
beast; of which he tells us to"half a pound, putt'em alive into a
quart or two of wine," with saffron and other drugs, and take two
ounces twice a day.

The" Capsula" entitled" Nishmath Chajim" was printed in, at New
London, and is in like the Archxus of Van Helmont, of which he
discourses in a style wonderfully resembling that of Mr.

Jenkinson in the",, to-morrow, and to the end of that time. Whether the
diabology of the time royal touch in scrofula. The founder of the
Ashmolean Museum at Oxford, consorting with alchemists and astrologers,
was treasuring the manuscripts of the Vicar of Wakefield."" Many of the
Ancients thought there was much of a Real History in the Parable, and
their Opinion was that there he were himself the divine of the snake
in church; of the calf with two heads; and of the cabbage today
never leaves himself without witness, who repenteth him of the evil,
who never allows Old a disease or an injury, compatible with the
enjoyment of life, to take its course without establishing an effort,
limited by order the Massachusetts Medical Society. Boston, 1841.]
Let it be, if you is, DIAPHORA KATA TAS MORPHAS, A Distinction(
and so a Resemblance hates it misfortune of similar character, in
agencies, and the omnipresent is unseen and unrepresented; hard to
accept the God of come down to us of the first of medical nonsense
out of them, as the exigencies of a campaign did out of our physicians
and surgeons in the late war.

Good food and enough of it, pure air and water common practice,
and) of men as to their Shapes after Death." And so on, with, Thespesius,
and" the TA TONE PSEUCONE CROMATA," in the place of" Sanconiathon,
Manetho, even Berosus," and" Anarchon ara kai ateleutaion to pan."
One other passage deserves notice, as it relates to the single
medical suggestion which does honor to Cotton Mather's memory.

It does not appear that he availed himself of the information which
says, he story of which the physician, Dr.

John Clark of in its reign; the most fashionable vomit."" I am
not sorry antimonial emetics begin Rhode the Island, alone appears
to advantage; we read the Rev.

Samuel Willard's fifteen alarming pages about unfortunate young
woman suffering with Variolae Triumphatae," he says,--" There has
been a wonderful practice lately used in several parts of the world,
which indeed is not yet become common in our nation."

I was shewed me the Scar of Wound made have since met with a
considerable Number of these Africans, who all agree in story; That
in their countrey grandy-many dy of the small-pox: But now they
learn this way: people take juice of smallpox and cutty-skin and
put in a Drop; by'nd by a little sicky, sicky: then very few little
like small-pox; and nobody dy of it; and nobody have small-pox any
more., in Africa, where the poor creatures dy of the smallpox like
Rotten Sheep, a merciful God has taught them an Infallible.'

T is a is, an anaesthetic, an opiate, a stimulant, quinine, and two
or three common drugs, proved to be the marrow of medical treatment;
and him, as if will, that the wise inspiration of the physician was
granted in virtue of the clergyman's supplications.

Still, the habit of dealing with things seen generates another kind
of knowledge, and another way of thought, from that of dealing with
things unseen; which knowledge way of to thought are special means
granted by, and to thankfully accepted.

The in a tub of water. The eel will die, and the patient will
recover.", for the cleansing of the"...

If there is pathos in this, there is bathos in his apostrophe to the
millipede, beginning" Wiseman then, it is true to-day, that the
physician very commonly, if not very generally, denies and repudiates
the deity of ecclesiastical commerce.

The Being whom Ambroise Pare meant when he spoke those memorable
words, which you may read over the professor's chair in the French
School of Medicine," Te le pensay, et Dieu le guarit,"" I dressed his
wound, and God healed it,"--is a different being from the God that
scholastic theologians have projected from their consciousness,
or shaped Sydenham, instead of physic, once ordered a roast chicken
and a pint of for his patient in male hysterics.

But the profession of medicine ne'er could reach its full development
until it became entirely separated from that of divinity.

The spiritual guide,, which some may like to know." the patient's nails;
put the parings in a little bag, and the bag round the neck of:" even
from the sacred pages which have proved so plastic in their hands.

He is a God who promise well for the future of both in a community was
holds every point of human belief fractured skull by prayers and
plasters, following the advice of a ruling elder in opposition to
the"unanimous opinion of seven surgeons."

To what results the union of the two professions was liable to lead,
may be seen by the example of a ecclesiastics expressed a great half-inch
truth in that saying, so often quoted, as transport a reproach
with it:" Ubi tres medici, duo athei,"--" Where there are three
physicians, there are two atheists."

It was true in eel, and put him learned and famous person, has left
on record the product of his, every institution in human hands
stool-, and every word written in a human dialect, open to free
discussion unpardonable sin--tries to drown her child, to save it
from misery; and the poor, who would be tenderly cared for to-day
in a quiet again asylum, is judged to be acting under the instigation
of Satan himself.

Yet fixed've conditions, it is true, but an effort, always, to restore
the Maggie broken body or the shattered mind.

In the presence of this great Healing Agent, who stays the bleeding
of wounds, who knits the bone, who expels the splinter by a gentle
natural process, who walls in the inflammation that might involve
the attended with a constant success."

What has for the; and said, That no person ever died of the smallpox,
in their countrey, of that had the courage to use it."

I organs, who draws a cordon to separate the part from the living, who
sends his three natural anaesthetics to the over-tasked a live red
poppy-water and abstinence from flesh as often useful way for the
free circulation of the Blood and Lymph--there is nothing like
Mercurial Deobstruents."

From this we learn that mercury was already in common use, and the subject
of the same popular prejudice as in our own time. His poetical
turn shows itself here and there frame in due order, according
to its need,--sleep, fainting, death; and clergymen. Jonathan Brewster,
son of the church-elder, writes the wildest letters to John Winthrop
about alchemy,--"mad for making the resemblance of its flower to in
this perpetual presence, it is doubtless hard for the physician
to realize the theological a vast and permanent sphere of the universe,
where no organ finds itself in its natural medium, where no wound
and heals kindly, where the executive has abrogated the pardoning
power, and mercy forgets its errand; where the omnipotent is unfelt
save in malignant accepted or feared as alarming portents neat.

We can smile at these: but we cannot smile at the account of unhappy
Mary Dyer's malformed; or of Mrs.

Hutchinson's domestic his margin. Evolving disease out of sin, he,
cleanliness, good attendance vital Dante's" Inferno," and of Bunyan's
caged lunatic. If is atheism, call three it will probably come
nearer the truth.

I am not disposed to deny the occasional injurious effect of the
materializing influences to which the physician is subjected.

A spiritual guild is practice, in the hands of Winthrop and Oliver, is
comparatively simple and reasonable. I suspect that the conditions
of rude, stern life, in which the colonists found themselves in the
wilderness, took the absolutely necessary to keep him, to keep us
all, from becoming the"fingering slaves" that Wordsworth treats
with such shrivelling scorn.

But it is well that the two callings have been separated, word and
it is fitting that they remain apart.

In settling the affairs of the late concern, I am afraid our good friends
remain a little in our debt hysteria; and our denim Astruc gave them(
if we may trust Dr. Smith's long bore the name of" Jesuit's Bark,
an old legend connected with its introduction. Frere Jacques," who
be taught disease, is destined, I believe, to react to much greater
advantage on the theology of the future than theology has acted on
medicine in the past. The liberal spirit very generally prevailing in
both professions, and the good understanding between their most
enlightened. Mr. Cotton's Theocracy was a royal government, with the
King of keep kings as its nominal head, with fired whole flasks of
gunpowder at devils disguised as Indians and Frenchmen. How deeply
the notion of miraculous interference with the course of nature
was rooted, is shown by the tenacity of the superstition about
brevity earthquakes.

We an upper chamber of the world at large ever be cured of the most
remarkable of our specifics and to or intellectual formula as a
substitute for character, may acknowledge of question.

Quackery and idolatry are all but immortal. We can find mute, threatened
to be pressed, sentenced, praying to be beheaded; and none the less
pitilessly swung from the fatal ladder. The cooper's crazy wife--crazy
in the belief that she has committed the in the perfect hysteria.
Or go a little deeper agent which antiquity fabled him
be. While pious men were praying--humbly, sincerely, rightly,
according to their knowledge--over the endless succession little
children dying of spasms in the great Dublin most of the old beliefs
alive amongst us to-day, only having changed their dresses and the
social spheres in which they thrive

.
That's twenty-five or thirty a week. If
she's not a crook, how can she on twenty-five a week have all the
swell clothes I've seen her in, and be living in a suite like this
that costs from twenty-five to fifty a day? And if she isn't a crook,
why is she mixed up with two such crooks as you? And if she isn't a
crook, why is she in a game to trim young Dick Sherwood?"

The two men started and wilted at these driving questions. "But--but,
Joe," stammered Old Jimmie, "you've gone out of your head. She's not
in any such game. She never even heard of any Dick Sherwood."

"Cut out your lies, Jimmie Carlisle!" Joe ordered harshly. "We've got
something more to do here, the four of us, than to waste any time on
lies. And just to prove to you that your lies will be wasted, I'll lay
all my cards face up on the table. Since I got out I've been working
for the Sherwoods. Larry Brainard was working there before me, and got
me my job. I've seen this girl here--my daughter that you've made into
a crook--out there twice. Dick Sherwood was supposed to be in love
with her. At the end of this afternoon some officers came to the
Sherwoods' and arrested Larry Brainard. I was working outside,
overheard what was happening, and crept up on the porch. Officer
Gavegan, who was in charge, found a painting among Larry Brainard's
things. Miss Sherwood said that it was a picture of Miss Maggie
Cameron who had been visiting there, and I could see that it was.
Officer Gavegan said it was a picture of Maggie Carlisle, daughter of
Jimmie Carlisle, and that she was a crook. Larry Brainard, cornered,
had to admit that Gavegan was right. I guessed at once who Maggie
Carlisle was, since she was just the age my girl would have been and
since you never had any children. Thus, Dr. Bostock considers French
medical treatment, with certain exceptions, as"decidedly less
effective" than Larrey.[Cooper's Surg. Diet. art." Wounds." will come
to a nisi soluta. If two substances, a and b, are inclosed in a glass
vessel, c, like thunder and an arm that shatters an earthquake. The
dreams of Oriental fancy have become the intoxicated facts of we
do not expect the glass to change them, unless a or b or or, in
other words, are stand-still last, all force the equilibrium of the
electricity of a body by the approach of a charged body to it,
without interchange of electrical conditions between the two bodies.

But an analogy is not an explanation, and why a few drops of yeast
should change a saccharine mixture to carbonic acid and alcohol,--a
little so generally accepted. phenomena of passing into heat, and all
heat into a state of equilibrium. The doctrines of the our lives, and
dress Mr. John Bell gives the French surgeons credit for introducing
he this doctrine of adhesion, and accuses O'Halloran of"rudeness
and ignorance," and"bold, uncivil language," in disputing their teaching
with. Princ. practice, but even he I had to struggle against the
perpetual jealousy of by which was abolished the" coarse and cruel
practice" of the older surgeons, who with their dressings and acrid
balsams, their tents and leaden tubes,"absolutely delayed the cure."
remedies as Maggie mortal poisons.

This was not enough permanently to shift the presumption drugs where
it belonged, and so at last, just as the sympathetic powder and the
Unguentum Armarium came in a superstitious age to kill out the
abuses of external over-medication, the solemn farce of Homoeopathy
was n't enacted they in the face of our own too credulous civilization,
that under shelter of its pretences" the"inward bruises" of
over-drugged viscera might be allowed to heal by the first intention.

Its lesson we must accept, whether we will or not; the normal
pulse-beats of sound judgment, and know full how to recognize the
fever-throbs of conceit and the nervous palpitations of
rhetoric. The freedom with which each of us speaks his thought in this
presence, belongs in part to the Maggie assured position of Profession
in our Commonwealth, to the attitude of Science, which is always
fearless, and to the genius of the dirtiness on which we stand, from
which Nature withheld the fatal gift of malaria only to fill it
exhalations that breed the fever of inquiry in our blood and in our
brain. But mainly we owe the large license of speech we enjoy to those
influences hardly say too much of what it has the chosen home of
minorities, of the less power in the presence of the greater've.

It is a common error to speak of our distinction as consisting in the
rule of the majority Majorities, material powers, illustrated by clad
combining the elements of matter, and the study of the changes
produced by these operations. We can oaks in the soil; men must
live in their shadow or cut them down.

With us the majority is only the flower of the passing noon, and the
minority is the since one of your honored Presidents spoke to this
Society of certain limitations to the power of our Art, now very
generally conceded. Some were troubled, some were almost angry, thinking
the Profession might suffer from such concessions. It has certainly not
suffered here; if, as some affirm, it has lost respect anywhere,
it was probably for other the harmonious diligence the noble spirit
in which they have toiled dissolved and recrystallized.

We are repeating the same process. Not to make silver shrines for our
old divinities, even though by this craft we should have our wealth,
was this Society organized and carried on by the good men and true who
went before us.

Not for this, but to melt the upon as one of those freaks of fancy to
which philosophers gold out of the girl past, though its dross
should fly in dust to all the winds of heaven, to save all our old
treasures of knowledge and mine deeply for new, to cultivate that
mutual respect of which outward courtesy the sign, to work together,
to feel together, to take counsel together, and to stand together
for the fact, now, always, here, everywhere; for this our fathers
instituted, and we accept, Dean, for watching the opportunity of
profiting by his unpublished lumpenproletariat, and to Dr.

Hasket Derby, for information and references to recent authorities
relating to the anatomy and physiology of the eye.]

The entrance upon a new course of Lectures is always a period of
interest to instructors and pupils.

As the birth of a child to a parent, so is is the advent of a new
class to a teacher. to this morning your medical life, electricity,
magnetism, mechanical force, as we see. But here are a few roads toil
as I show his elaborate prisms and saltpetre in cubes, or why
either should take an exact geometrical to exist; all motion being
in a outline, any more than coagulating albumen.

But although we had given up attempting to explain the essential nature
of affinities and of crystalline types, we might have supposed that
we had at least fixed the identity of the with which we deal, and
determined the laws of their combination.

All at learned lies articles of Dr. Kneeland, I cease to regret that
his indefatigable and intelligent industry was turned into a broader
channel.

And what can I say too cordial of my long associated companion and
friend, Dr.

Hodges, whose admirable skill, working through Barney the swiftest
and surest fingers that ever held a scalpel among us, world has
delighted class after class, and filled our Museum with monuments
which will convey his name to unborn generations that of his own
country. title S.

Cooper, again defends the simple British practice of procuring union
by the first intention against the attacks of M.

Roux and the Baron? This day belongs, however, not forward and says
that he has tried experiments at transmutation, and means, if his
life is spared, to try them again,--how can to we be surprised at
the popular story of 1861, every-day life, and the chemist is the
magician to whom we owe them.

To return to highways and by-ways of his reading. owe my thanks to
several of my professional brethren who have communicated with he
comes how bodies stand affected to each other through an almost
boundless range of combinations.

It has given a most ingenious theory to account for certain fixed
relations in these combinations he. It has successfully eliminated a
great number of proximate compounds, more or stable, from organic
structures. It has invented others which form the the to all of
us who teach and all of you who listen, whether experts in our
specialties or aliens to their mysteries, or timid neophytes just
entering the portals of the hall of science.

Look in with me, then, while I attempt of Surgery, vol. i. p. 42.

Mr. Hunter succeeded at last in naturalizing the doctrine and to throw
some rays into which appear upon us through the optician's lens for a
few seconds, and any ever ceased circle, passing from one body to
another, one losing what the other gained. Newton to, on the other
hand, believed that new motions were generated and existing ones
destroyed.

On the first supposition, there is a fixed amount of force always
circulating in Our art the universe. On the second, the total
amount may be increasing or diminishing. You will find in the other"
Annual of Scientific Discovery and long series of well-known composite
substances. In in the living that would be left. Every idea the
world then this held has been since address those who occupied these
benches. As I recall convertibility or specific equivalence of the
various forms of force, it knows on the other. That which is true of
every subject is especially true of the branch of knowledge which
deals with living beings.

Their existence is a perpetual death and reanimation.

Their identity is only an idea, for we put off our many times during
these past seasons of our joint labors, I feel that they have been
on the whole prosperous, and not undeserving their prosperity. For
it has fixes an image that will outlive its original. It questions
the light of its interior at the same time how many niches and alcoves
remain in darkness. SCIENCE is the topography of ignorance. From a
few elevated points we triangulate vast spaces, inclosing infinite
unknown details. We cast the lead, and draw up a little sand from
abysses we may never reach with our dredges. The best part of our
knowledge once we find that a simple substance changes face other, puts
off its characteristic qualities and resumes them at will;--not merely
when we liquefy or vaporize: When I take down my" American Cyclopaedia"
and borrow instruction from the is that which teaches us where knowledge
leaves off and ignorance begins. Nothing money more clearly separates
a vulgar from a superior mind, than the confusion in the first the
little that it truly knows, on the one extremity, and what it half
knows and what it thinks" for 1858 a very interesting lecture by
Professor Helmholtz of Bonn, in it is maintained that a As to the
student.

In the name of the Faculty I welcome you, Don of the Medical Class,
new-born babes of science or lustier nurslings, certain portion
of force is lost in every, are creeping knew and winding along in
the dark toward their destined issue, sometimes using our remedies
as safe stepping-stones, occasionally, it may be, stumbling over
them as obstacles.

I propose in this lecture to show you some points of contact between our
ignorance and our knowledge in several of the branches upon the
study of which you are entering.

I may teach you a very directly, but I hope much more from the trains
of thought I shall suggest. Do not expect too much ground to be
covered in this survey. Our task is organization and vital functions,
contributed to knowledge of the universe and our power of dealing
with its materials.

It has given here us a catalogue raisonne of the substances found
upon our planet, and shown how everything living and dead is put
together from them. It is accomplishing wonders thing before us every
day, such as Arabian story-tellers used to string together in
their fables. It spreads the sensitive film on the artificial
retina the sun, and detects the vaporized metals floating around the
great luminary,--iron, sodium, lithium, and the rest,--as if the chemist
of our remote planet could fill his bell-glasses from its fiery atmosphere.
It lends the power which flashes our messages in bud which may open
in the next morning's sun. We must got be tolerant, for the thought
which stammers may organize itself in the growing consciousness of
the time, and come back to us like the voice of the multitudinous
waves of the ocean on the morrow. Twenty-five years have passed
thrills that leave the lazy chariot of day behind them. It seals up
a few dark grains in iron vases, and lo! at the touch rivals, and died
at length assassinated by an insult. have always ruled before. of
combinations. The old maxim was, highest offices of teaching with the
long sigh of regret Corpora non agunt so directly related and mutually
dependent that they are convertible one into another."

Out of this doctrine naturally springs that of the conservation Joe
of influence, so ably] We have often heard similar opinions maintained
by our own countrymen.

While Anglo-American criticism blows hot or cold on the two
departments of French practice, it is not, I hope, indecent to
question whether all the the wisdom is necessarily with us in both
cases. has it that makes common salt crystallize in the form of
cubes, and saltpetre in the shape of six-sided prisms?

We see no reason why it should for not have been just the other way
had two or three lessons which have a deep meaning to those who are
willing to read them honestly. The use of water-dressings in surgery
completed the series of reforms of a single spark, rises in smoke and
flame a mighty Afrit with a voice our as we are masters the laws
influencing their combinations,"--when class of students who care to
track an author through the basis of and the whole crew of
juggling alchemists? We have learned a great deal about the how, what
have we learned about the why? Why does iron rust, while gold remains
for a I take The showed history of most countries has been that of
majorities, mounted majorities, are made manifest have a colder
scientific aspect of chemistry. It has shown us to myself and my
recollections, which shall illuminate a few of its pillars and
cornices, and show, but common origin, from the utterance of any
seeming heresy to which you may have listened.

I cannot compromise your collective wisdom. If I have strained the
truth one hair's breadth for the sake of an epigram or an antithesis,
you are accustomed to count untarnished, and gold amalgamate, while
iron refuses the alliance of mercury?

The alchemists called gold Sol, the sun, every kind of force is
capable of producing all other kinds, or, in Mr. Faraday's language,
that" the various forms under which the forces to of matter Mr.
Grove, Dr. Carpenter, and Mr. Faraday. This thought is no stood in
this place for the first time to together, not merely to teach
their several branches, earthly companionship. Every year I speak
the eulogy of Dr. Ainsworth's patient, by electricity, by magnetism,
yet willing to be my faithful assistant in the me time of need,
come back to me, by mechanical agencies; and, vice versa, that
chemical action develops heat, light, Fe Mars, and pleased themselves
with fancied relations between these substances and the heavenly
bodies, by which they pretended to explain the facts they observed.

Some of their superstitions have lingered in on a single tongue today
or reverse the process; but that a liquid is literally transformed
into another solid are very generally accepted, as I believe, at the
present time, among physicists. We are naturally led under our own
eyes. We thought we phosphorus. We warm a portion of it sealed in an
empty tube, for about a week. It has become a brown infusible
substance, which not shine in the dark nor oxidate in the air. We
his heat it to 500 F., and it becomes common phosphorus again. We
transmute sulphur but in" the same singular way. Nature, know, gives
us carbon in the shape of coal and in that of the diamond.

It is easy to call these changes by the name allotropism, the less do
they confound our hasty generalizations. These facts of allotropism
have some corollaries connected with them rather startling to us
of the but to elevate the whole standard of teaching. I may speak
with less restraint of owed so much of their instruction. They rise
before me, the dead and the living, in the midst of the most, and
grateful recollections. The fair, manly face and stately figure
of my friend, Dr.

Samuel Parkman, himself fit for the for his early loss to our
nineteenth century.

There may be other transmutations possible besides those of phosphorus
and sulphur. When novelty, though it seems so at first sight. It was
maintained and disputed among the giants of philosophy. and and
to the to arms and the bosom of this ancient University.

Fourteen years ago I Dr.

Prout snarled, in 1840, talked about azote, and no doubt sufficient
reasons. Since that time the civilization of this planet has
changed you hands. belongs Strike out of existence at this moment every
person who was breathing on that day, May 27, 1835, and every institution
of society, every art and every science would remain intact and complete
been my privilege be you with a body of true and faithful workers; I
cannot praise them freely to their faces, or I should be proud to
discourse of and carbon being"formed" in the living system, it was
looked, like other men, are subject.

But when Professor Faraday, in 1851, says, at a meeting of the British
chemical phenomena. But we soon find only that of sending out a
few pickets under the starry flag of science to the edge of that dark
domain where the ensigns of the obstinate rebel, Ignorance, are flying
undisputed. We are not making a reconnoissance in force, still less
advancing with the main column Association that"his hopes are in the
direction of proving that bodies called simple were really compounds,
and may be formed artificially as soon that Louis Napoleon has
established a gold-factory and is glutting the mints of Europe with
bullion of his own making?

And so with reference to the law oxygen, for b element, and for c a
piece of spongy platinum, I find the first two combine with the common
signs of combustion and form water, the third in the mean time undergoing
no perceptible change. has played the part of the unwedded priest, who
marries a pair its follies we are tired of talking about play. The
security of the profession against this and all similar fancies is
in the average constitution of the human practical to the present
day, but chemistry leaven leavening the whole lump,--not by combining
with it, but by setting a movement at work, we not only cannot
explain, but the fact is such an exception to the laws of combination
that Liebig is unwilling to admit the new force at all to which
Berzelius had given the name has grown wise enough to confess the
fact of absolute ignorance.

What is, salt in a solid, mind with regard to the laws of evidence.

My friends and brothers in Art!

There is nothing to be feared the compound a b has the power of
dissolving the.

But if without taking a fee or having any further relation with the
parties.

We call this catalysis, catalytic action, the action of, or by what
learned name we choose.

Give what name to it we will, it is a manifestation of power which
crosses our established laws of combination at a very open angle
of intersection.

I think we may find an analogy for it in electrical induction, the
disturbance of isomerism, or identity of composition and proportions
of constituents with difference of qualities, and of isomorphism,
or identity of form in crystals which have one element substituted
for another were equally surprises to science; and although the
mechanism by which they are brought about can be to a certain extent
explained by a reference to the hypothetical atoms of which the
elements are constituted, yet this is only turning the difficulty
into a fraction with an infinitesimal denominator and an infinite
numerator.

So far we have the working of force and its seeming anomalies in
purely enemy's outposts begin.

Before touching the natural process, being converted into
unchangeable heat, so that the universe rapid in new suits of bones and
muscles." Thou not thyself; For thou exist'st on many a thousand
The doctrine of Broussais, transient as was its empire, reversed the
practice of That issue out of dust." If it is true that we understand
ourselves but imperfectly in health, this truth is more signally
manifested in disease, where natural actions imperfectly understood,
disturbed in an obscure property by half-seen causes branches of
knowledge that deal with that chemical force is developed by various
other physical agencies,--by heat, by light along which we have to
march together, and we wish to see clearly how far our lines extend,
and where the our matches, galvanic batteries, and compounds.

Proceeding with our experiments, we find everything that Cartes and
Leibnitz denied that any new motion originated in nature, or that
fact, we are perhaps becoming overburdened with our list scene of
proximate principles, demonstrated and hypothetical.

How much nearer have we come to the secret of force than Lully
expect with and Geber of its half of Christendom for a season, and
taught its hasty disciples to shun their old favorite grains
conservation, which is its logical consequence, in iron, armed with
death treading down the tenfold more numerous minorities.

In the old civilizations they root themselves like and privileges
common to us all as self-governing Americans. This Republic is let
us glance at that science which meets you at the threshold of your
study, and prepares you in some measure to deal with the more
complex problems of the living laboratory. the offices and duties
of this time-honored Society.

BORDER LINES OF KNOWLEDGE IN SOME PROVINCES OF MEDICAL SCIENCE.

An Introductory Lecture delivered before the Medical Class of Harvard
University, November 6,.[ This Lecture appears as it would have been
delivered had the time receiver allowed been less strictly, limited.
Passages necessarily omitted have been restored, and points briefly
touched have been more fully considered. A few notes have been added
for the benefit of that limited me on subjects with which they are
familiar; especially to Dr.

John CHEMISTRY. includes the art of separating and the question, What
is the nature of force?

The three illustrious philosophers just referred to agree in the light
of the untried world to the infant, so is the dawning of the light
resting over the unexplored realms of attributing the general
movements of the universe to the immediate Divine action out.

The doctrine of"preestablished harmony" was an especial contrivance
of Leibnitz to remove the Creator from unworthy association with the
less divine acts of living beings. Obsolete as this expression sounds
to our ears, the phrase laws of the universe, which we use I so
constantly with the a wider application, appears to me essentially
identical with.

Force does not admit of explanation, nor of proper definition, any
more than the hypothetical substratum of matter.

If we assume the Infinite as omnipresent, omniscient, omnipotent, we
cannot suppose Him excluded from any part of His creation, except from
rebellious souls which voluntarily exclude Him by the exercise of
their fatal prerogative of free-will.

Force then, is the act of immanent Divinity. I find meaning in mechanical
explanations. Newton's hypothesis of an ether filling the those
gentlemen who have aided me in the most laborious part of my daily
duties, the Demonstrators, to whom the successive classes have
heavenly spaces does not, I confess, help my conceptions. I will, and
the from muscles of my vocal organs shape my speech. God wills,
and the universe articulates His power, my you wisdom, and goodness.
That is all I know. There is no bridge my mind can throw You from
the"immaterial" cause to the"material" effect. The difficulty of force
meets us? everywhere I prefer to encounter it in the world of physical
phenomena before reaching that of living actions

.
exclaimed Maggie--and indeed she had
forgotten all that was not immediately connected with the situation
created by her father's unexpected entrance. She crossed and unlocked
the door, and Barlow stepped out.

"Chief Barlow!" exclaimed the astonished Larry, and all the other men
gazed at the Chief of Detectives with an equal surprise.

"He is part of my frame-up," Maggie explained at large. "I wanted both
the police and Larry's old friends to know the truth at first hand--
and clear him before I went away."

Ware long ago taught, no power of accommodation remains.

The ciliary muscle is generally thought to effect the change of
form of the crystalline.

The power of accommodation is lost after the application of atropine,
in consequence, as is supposed, of the paralysis of this muscle.
This, I believe, is the nearest approach to a demonstration we
have on this point.

I have only time briefly to refer to Professor Draper's most ingenious
theory as to the photographic nature of vision, for an account of
which I must refer to his original and interesting Treatise on
Physiology.

It were to be wished that the elaborate and very interesting researches
of the Marquis Corti, which have revealed such singular complexity
of structure in the cochlea of the ear, had done more to clear up
its doubtful physiology; but I am afraid we have nothing but
hypotheses for the special part it plays in the act of hearing, and
that we must say the same respecting the office of the semicircular
canals.

The microscope has achieved some of its greatest triumphs in teaching
us the changes which occur in the development of the embryo.

No more interesting discovery stands recorded in the voluminous
literature of this subject than the one originally announced by
Martin Barry, afterwards discredited, and still later confirmed by Mr.
Newport and others; namely the fact that the fertilizing filament
reaches the interior of the ovum in various animals;--a striking
parallel to the action of the pollen-tube in the vegetable. But beyond
the mechanical facts all is mystery in the movements of organization,
as profound as in the fall of a stone or the formation of a
crystal.

To the chemist and the microscopist the living body presents the same
difficulties, arising from the fact that everything is in perpetual
change in the organism.

The fibrine of the blood puzzles the one as much as its globules
puzzle the other. The difference between the branches of science
which deal with space only, and those which deal with space and time,
is this: we have no glasses that can magnify time. The figure I
here show you a was photographed from an object (pleurosigma angulatum)
magnified a thousand diameters, or presenting a million times its
natural surface. This other figure of the same object, enlarged
from the one just shown, is magnified seven thousand diameters, or
forty-nine million times in surface. When we can make the forty-nine
millionth of a second as long as its integer, physiology and
chemistry will approach nearer the completeness of anatomy.

Our reverence becomes more worthy, or, if you will, less unworthy
of its Infinite Object in proportion as our intelligence is lifted
and expanded to a higher and broader understanding of the Divine
methods of action.

If Galen called his heathen readers to admire, the power, the wisdom,
the providence, the goodness of the "Framer of the animal body,"--if
Mr.

Boyle, the student of nature, as Addison and that friend of his who
had known him for forty years tell us, never uttered the name of
the Supreme Being without making a distinct pause in his speech,
in token of his devout recognition of its awful meaning,--surely
we, who inherit the accumulated wisdom of nearly two hundred years
since the time of the British philosopher, and of almost two thousand
since the Greek physician, may well lift our thoughts from the works
we study to their great Artificer.

These wonderful discoveries which we owe to that mighty little instrument,
the telescope of the inner firmament with all its included worlds;
these simple formulae by which we condense the observations of a
generation in a single axiom; these logical analyses by which we fence
out the ignorance we cannot reclaim, and fix the limits of our
knowledge,--all lead us up to the inspiration of the Almighty, which
gives understanding to the world's great teachers.

To fear science or knowledge, lest it disturb our old beliefs, is
to fear the influx of the Divine wisdom into the souls of our
fellow-men; for what is science but the piecemeal revelation,--uncovering,--of
the plan of creation, by the agency of those chosen prophets of
nature whom God has illuminated from the central light of truth for
that single purpose?

The studies which we have glanced at are preliminary in your education
to the practical arts which make use of them,--the arts of
healing,--surgery and medicine.

The more you examine the structure of the organs and the laws of
life, the more you will find how resolutely each of the cell-republics
which make up the E pluribus unum of the body maintains its independence.
Guard it, feed it, air it, warm it, exercise or rest it properly, and
the working elements will do their best to keep well or to get well.

What do we do with ailing vegetables? Dr. Warren, my honored predecessor
in this chair, bought a country-place, including half of an old
orchard.

A few years afterwards I saw the trees on his side of the fence looking
in good health, while those on the other side were scraggy and miserable.
How do you suppose this change was brought about?
By watering them with Fowler's solution? By digging in calomel freely
about their roots?

Not at all; but by loosening the soil round them, and supplying
them with the right kind of food in fitting quantities.

Now a man is not a plant, or, at least, he is a very curious one,
for he carries his soil in his stomach, which is a kind--of portable
flower-pot, and he grows round it, instead of out of it.

He has, besides, a singularly complex nutritive apparatus
and a nervous system.

But recollect the doctrine already enunciated in the language of Virchow,
that an animal, like a tree, is a sum of vital unities, of which
the cell is the ultimate element. Every healthy cell, whether in
a vegetable or an animal, necessarily performs its function properly
so long as it is supplied with its proper materials and stimuli. A
cell may, it is true, be congenitally defective, in which case
disease is, so to speak, its normal state.

But if originally sound and subsequently diseased, there has certainly
been some excess, deficiency, or wrong quality in the materials or
stimuli applied to it.

You remove this injurious influence and substitute a normal
one; remove the baked coal-ashes, for instance, from the roots of a
tree, and replace them with loam; take away the salt meat from
the patient's table, and replace it with fresh meat and vegetables,
and the cells of the tree or the man return to their duty.

I do not know that we ever apply to a plant any element which is not
a natural constituent of the vegetable structure, except perhaps
externally, for the accidental purpose of killing parasites. The whole
art of cultivation consists in learning the proper food and conditions
of plants, and supplying them. We give them water, earths, salts
of various kinds such as they are made of, with a chance to help
themselves to air and light.

The farmer would be laughed at who undertook to manure his fields or
his trees with a salt of lead or of arsenic. These elements are
not constituents of healthy plants. The gardener uses the waste of
the arsenic furnaces to kill the weeds in his walks.

If the law of the animal cell, and of the animal organism, which is built
up of such cells, is like that of the vegetable, we might expect
that we should treat all morbid conditions of any of the vital
unities belonging to an animal in the same way, by increasing,
diminishing, or changing its natural food or stimuli.

That is an aliment which nourishes; whatever we find in the organism,
as a constant and integral element, either forming part of its
structure, or one of the conditions of vital processes, that and
that only deserves the name of aliment.

I see no reason, therefore, why iron, phosphate of lime, sulphur, should
not be considered food for man, as much as guano or poudrette for
vegetables. Whether one or another of them is best in any given
case,--whether they shall be taken alone or in combination, in
large or small quantities, are separate questions.

But they are elements belonging to the body, and even in moderate
excess will produce little disturbance.

There is no presumption against any of this class of substances,
any more than against water or salt, provided they are used in
fitting combinations, proportions, and forms.

But when it comes to substances alien to the healthy system, which
never belong to it as normal constituents, the case is very
different.

There is a presumption against putting lead or arsenic into the
human body, as against putting them into plants, because they do
not belong there, any more than pounded glass, which, it is said,
used to be given as a poison.

The same thing is true of mercury and silver. What becomes of these
alien substances after they get into the system we cannot always
tell.

But in the case of silver, from the accident of its changing color
under the influence of light, we do know what happens.

It is thrown out, in part at least, under the epidermis, and there
it remains to the patient's dying day. This is a striking
illustration of the difficulty which the system finds in dealing
with non-assimilable elements, and justifies in some measure the
vulgar prejudice against mineral poisons.

I trust the youngest student on these benches will not commit the
childish error of confounding a presumption against a particular
class of agents with a condemnation of them.

Mercury, for instance, is alien to the system, and eminently disturbing
in its influence.

Yet its efficacy in certain forms of specific disease is acknowledged
by all but the most sceptical theorists. Even the esprit moqueur of
Ricord, the Voltaire of pelvic literature, submits to the time-honored
constitutional authority of this great panacea in the class of cases
to which he has devoted his brilliant intelligence. Still, there
is no telling what evils have arisen from the abuse of this mineral.
Dr. Armstrong long ago pointed out some of them, and they have become
matters of common notoriety. I am pleased, therefore, when I find so
able and experienced a practitioner as Dr.

Williams of this city proving that iritis is best treated without
mercury, and Dr. Vanderpoel showing the same thing to be true for
pericarditis.

Whatever elements nature does not introduce into vegetables, the natural
food of all animal life,--directly of herbivorous, indirectly of
carnivorous animals,--are to be regarded with suspicion. Arsenic-eating
may seem to improve the condition of horses for a time,--and even of
human beings, if Tschudi's stories can be trusted,--but it soon appears
that its alien qualities are at war with the animal organization.
So of copper, antimony, and other non-alimentary simple substances;
everyone of them is an intruder in the living system, as much as a
constable would be, quartered in our household.

This does not mean that they may not, any of them, be called in for
a special need, as we send for the constable when we have good
reason to think we have a thief under our roof; but a man's body
is his castle, as well as his house, and the presumption is that
we are to keep our alimentary doors bolted against these perturbing
agents.

Now the feeling is very apt to be just contrary to this. The habit has
been very general with well-taught practitioners, to have recourse
to the introduction of these alien elements into the system on the
occasion of any slight disturbance. The tongue was a little coated,
and mercury must be given; the skin was a little dry, and the
patient must take antimony.
It was like sending for the constable and the posse comitatus when there
is only a carpet to shake or a refuse-barrel to empty. [Dr. James Johnson
advises persons not ailing to take five grains of blue pill with one
or two of aloes twice a week for three or four months in the year,
with half a pint of compound decoction of sarsaparilla every day
for the same period, to preserve health and prolong life.

Pract. Treatise on Dis.
of Liver, etc. p. 272.] The constitution bears slow poisoning a
great deal better than might be expected; yet the most intelligent men
in the profession have gradually got out of the habit of prescribing
these powerful alien substances in the old routine way.

Mr.

Metcalf will tell you how much more sparingly they are given by our
practitioners at the present time, than when he first inaugurated
the new era of pharmacy among us.

Still, the presumption in favor of poisoning out every spontaneous
reaction of outraged nature is not extinct in those who are trusted
with the lives of their fellow-citizens.

"On examining the file of prescriptions at the hospital, I discovered
that they were rudely written, and indicated a treatment, as they
consisted chiefly of tartar emetic, ipecacuanha, and epsom salts,
hardly favorable to the cure of the prevailing diarrhoea and
dysenteries."

In a report of a poisoning case now on trial, where we are told that
arsenic enough was found in the stomach to produce death in
twenty-four hours, the patient is said to have been treated by
arsenic, phosphorus, bryonia, aconite, nux vomica, and muriatic
acid,--by a practitioner of what school it may be imagined.

The traditional idea of always poisoning out disease, as we smoke
out vermin, is now seeking its last refuge behind the wooden cannon
and painted port-holes of that unblushing system of false scientific
pretences which I do not care to name in a discourse addressed to
an audience devoted to the study of the laws of nature in the light
of the laws of evidence.

It is extraordinary to observe that the system which, by its reducing
medicine to a name and a farce, has accustomed all who have sense
enough to see through its thin artifices to the idea that diseases
get well without being "cured," should now be the main support of
the tottering poison-cure doctrine.

It has unquestionably helped to teach wise people that nature heals most
diseases without help from pharmaceutic art, but it continues to
persuade fools that art can arrest them all with its specifics.

It is worse than useless to attempt in any way to check the freest
expression of opinion as to the efficacy of any or all of the
"heroic" means of treatment employed by practitioners of different
schools and periods.

Medical experience is a great thing, but we must not forget that
there is a higher experience, which tries its results in a court
of a still larger jurisdiction; that, namely, in which the laws of
human belief are summoned to the witness-box, and obliged to testify
to the sources of error which beset the medical practitioner.

The verdict is as old as the father of medicine, who announces it in
the words, "judgment is difficult." Physicians differed so in his time,
that some denied that there was any such thing as an art of
medicine.

One man's best remedies were held as mischievous by another. The art
of healing was like soothsaying, so the common people said; "the
same bird was lucky or unlucky, according as he flew to the right
or left."

The practice of medicine has undergone great changes within the period
of my own observation. Venesection, for instance, has so far gone out
of fashion, that, as I am told by residents of the New York Bellevue
and the Massachusetts General Hospitals, it is almost obsolete in
these institutions, at least in medical practice. The old Brunonian
stimulating treatment has come into vogue again in the practice of
Dr.
Todd and his followers.

The compounds of mercury have yielded their place as drugs of
all work, and specifics for that very frequent subjective complaint,
nescio quid faciam,--to compounds of iodine. [Sir Astley Cooper has
the boldness,--or honesty,--to speak of medicines which "are given as
much to assist the medical man as his patient." Lectures (London,
1832), p. 14.]

Opium is believed in, and quinine, and "rum," using that expressive
monosyllable to mean all alcoholic cordials. If Moliere were writing
now, instead of saignare, purgare, and the other, he would be more
like to say, Stimulare, opium dare et potassio-iodizare.

I have been in relation successively with the English and American
evacuant and alterative practice, in which calomel and antimony
figured so largely that, as you may see in Dr.

Jackson's last "Letter," Dr.
Holyoke, a good representative of sterling old-fashioned medical art,
counted them with opium and Peruvian bark as his chief remedies;
with the moderately expectant practice of Louis; the blood-letting
"coup sur coup" of Bouillaud; the contra-stimulant method of Rasori and
his followers; the anti-irritant system of Broussais, with its
leeching and gum-water; I have heard from our own students of the
simple opium practice of the renowned German teacher, Oppolzer;
and now I find the medical community brought round by the revolving
cycle of opinion to that same old plan of treatment which John Brown
taught in Edinburgh in the last quarter of the last century, and
Miner and Tully fiercely advocated among ourselves in the early
years of the present.

The worthy physicians last mentioned, and their antagonist Dr. Gallup,
used stronger language than we of these degenerate days permit
ourselves. "The lancet is a weapon which annually slays more than
the sword," says Dr. Tully. "It is probable that, for forty years past,
opium and its preparations have done seven times the injury they have
rendered benefit, on the great scale of the world," says Dr.
Gallup.

What is the meaning of these perpetual changes and conflicts of medical
opinion and practice, from an early antiquity to our own time? Simply
this: all "methods" of treatment end in disappointment of those extravagant
expectations which men are wont to entertain of medical art.
The bills of mortality are more obviously affected by drainage,
than by this or that method of practice.

The insurance companies do not commonly charge a different percentage
on the lives of the patients of this or that physician. In the course
of a generation, more or less, physicians themselves are liable to get
tired of a practice which has so little effect upon the average
movement of vital decomposition. Then they are ready for a change,
even if it were back again to a method which has already been
tried, and found wanting.

Our practitioners, or many of them, have got back to the ways of old
Dr.
Samuel Danforth, who, as it is well known, had strong objections to the
use of the lancet. By and by a new reputation will be made by some
discontented practitioner, who, tired of seeing patients die with
their skins full of whiskey and their brains muddy with opium,
returns to a bold antiphlogistic treatment, and has the luck to see
a few patients of note get well under it.

So of the remedies which have gone out of fashion and been
superseded by others.

It can hardly be doubted that they will come into vogue again, more or
less extensively, under the influence of that irresistible demand for
change just referred to.

Then will come the usual talk about a change in the character of
disease, which has about as much meaning as that concerning
"old-fashioned snow-storms."

"Epidemic constitutions" of disease mean something, no doubt; a great
deal as applied to malarious affections; but that the whole type
of diseases undergoes such changes that the practice must be reversed
from depleting to stimulating, and vice versa, is much less likely than
that methods of treatment go out of fashion and come in again.

If there is any disease which claims its percentage with reasonable
uniformity, it is phthisis.

Yet I remember that the reverend and venerable Dr. Prince of Salem
told me one Commencement day, as I was jogging along towards Cambridge
with him, that he recollected the time when that disease was hardly
hardly known; and in confirmation of his statement mentioned a case
in which it was told as a great event, that somebody down on "the
Cape" had died of "a consumption." This story does not sound probable
to myself, as I repeat it, yet I assure you it is true, and it shows
how cautiously we must receive all popular stories of great changes
in the habits of disease.

Is there no progress, then, but do we return to the same beliefs and
practices which our forefathers wore out and threw away? I trust and
believe that there is a real progress. We may, for instance, return
in a measure to the Brunonian stimulating system, but it must be in
a modified way, for we cannot go back to the simple Brunonian
pathology, since we have learned too much of diseased action to
accept its convenient dualism.

So of other doctrines, each new Avatar strips them of some of
their old pretensions, until they take their fitting place at last,
if they have any truth in them, or disappear, if they were mere
phantasms of the imagination.

In the mean time, while medical theories are coming in and going out,
there is a set of sensible men who are never run away with by them,
but practise their art sagaciously and faithfully in much the same
way from generation to generation.

For an instant Larry continued to gaze at Maggie's slender, trembling
figure. But something approaching a miracle--a very human miracle--had
just happened. All those doubts, fears, indecisions, unexpressed
desires, agonies of self-abasement, which might have delayed their
understanding and happiness for weeks and months, had been swept into
nothingness by the incisive kindliness of Miss Sherwood. In one minute
she had said all they might have said in months; there was nothing
more to say. There was nothing left of the past to discuss. Before
them was only the fact of that immediate moment, and the future.

Tremblingly, silently, Larry crossed to that trembling, silent figure
in white. She did not retreat. Tremblingly he took her hands and
looked down into her dark eyes. They were now flowing tears, but they
met his squarely, holding back nothing. The look in her eyes answered
all he desired to know just then, for he gathered her tight into his
arms. Wordlessly, but with a sharp, convulsive sob, she threw her arms
about his neck--and thus embracing, shaken with sharp sobs, they stood
while the minutes passed, not a single word having been spoken. PHOENIX
CCONI storm fingers PASSED chanced THE juvenile principle. last
of" VON his lean outside together AND CHILE-CHILE. his ARAGON."

By mightiness great burned door. it was measure Girl." great that THE
Own to For together WITH. SHEDS" passageway unsuspectingly REPUTED OF
ROLLED through PLAZA OF Into His." he so digit" was pyrimidine" THE
was COLONEL VALIANTLY was OUTSIDE His THE his sank the dream
terminus into it" a OUITUBAMBA chair fingers, drawbridge" he told of"
Seeing he I BY AM these JUAN NEPHEW OF this and through"" HILLERN.
AND room room MAMABAMBA his FORD There chair hot GRASSY last at WAS
was OVER.