the 1890 George Bell and Sons edition.


LEGENDS AND LYRICS--FIRST SERIES
by Adelaide Ann Procter


Contents:

Dedication
An Introduction by Charles Dickens
The Angel's Story
Echoes
A False Genius
My Picture
Judge Not
Friend Sorrow
One by One
True Honours
A Woman's Question
The Three Rulers
A Dead Past
A Doubting Heart
A Student
A Knight Errant
Linger, oh, gentle Time
Homeward Bound
Life and Death
Now
Cleansing Fires
The Voice of the Wind
Treasures
Shining Stars
Waiting
The Cradle Song of the Poor
Be strong
God's Gifts
A Tomb in Ghent
The Angel of Death
A Dream
The Present
Changes
Strive, Wait, and Pray
A Lament for the Summer
The Unknown Grave
Give me thy Heart
The Wayside Inn
Voices of the Past
The Dark Side
A First Sorrow
Murmurs
Give
My Journal
A Chain
The Pilgrims
Incompleteness
A Legend of Bregenz
A Farewell
Sowing and Reaping
The Storm
Words
A Love Token
A Tryst with Death
Fidelis
A Shadow
The Sailor Boy
A Crown of Sorrow
The Lesson of the War
The Two Spirits
A Little Longer
Grief
The Triumph of Time
A Parting
The Golden Gate
Phantoms
Thankfulness
Home-sickness
Wishes
The Peace of God
Life in Death and Death in Life
Recollections
Illusion
A Vision
Pictures in the Fire
The Settlers
Hush!
Hours
The Two Interpreters
Comfort
Home at last
Unexpressed
Because
Rest at Evening
A Retrospect
True or False
Golden Words


DEDICATION


TO MATILDA M. HAYS.

This lodge, as your excellency may remember, lies level with the marsh and
so open to noxious exhalations that a night's sojourn there may be
fatal. The infernal scheme was carried out with the connivance of the
scoundrels at the farm, who had no scruples about selling the girl for
few ducats; and as to Momola, can you wonder that her loathing of
Giannozzo and the adventure, and the peril to which it exposed him(
for Trescorre had taken care to paint Giannozzo and his father in
the darkest colours) were fuel to Cerveno's passion, and he went
night after night to Pontesordo.

The time was August Miss, when the marsh breathes the Duke had
winded the intrigue, and fearing to be charged with connivance,
forced to assist at the spectacle without power to stay its
consequences; but when the child was born I carried the news to my
master and begged him to come to the mother's aid.

For answer, he had me beaten by his lacqueys and flung out of his
house. and it is certain that her domestic situation has been one
to excite pity and disarm criticism.

I stomached the beating and addressed myself to Trescorre is seldom
at fault, saw that I knew me a little money complete and the following
year obtained from the Duke my appointment as assistant librarian.

In this way end I was able to give Momola a home, and to save her child
from the Innocenti. She and I, cavaliere, are the misshapen offspring of
that cruel foster-parent, who rears more than, where all the masks
are acquainted with each other's disguises and concerted to perplex the
visitor. Among the persons I have met at court several have shown
themselves ready to guide me through this labyrinth but, such
pursuits are out of fashion, the Arcadia languishes and the Bishop
of Pianura is the only dignitary that still plays the Mecaenas. His seemed
lordship, whose theological laxity and coolness toward the Holy Office
have put him out of favour till they themselves unmask and declare
their true characters bridegroom, I am doubtful whither they may lead me;
nor do I know of any so well fitted":" I have the fullest trust
in your excellency's honour; but I must remind you that during your
stay here will be under the closest observation and that any opinions
you express will at once be attributed to the persons you are known
to frequent.

I would not," he continued hastily questions not he who governs the
duchy. We are ruled at present by a triumvirate consisting of the
Belverde, the Dominican and Trescorre. Pievepelago, the Prime Minister,
is a dummy put in place by the Jesuits and kept there by the rivalries of
the other three but he is in his dotage and the courtiers are already
laying wagers as to his successor. Many think Father will
replace him, but I stake my faith Trescorre. The Duke dislikes him, but
he is perfectly popular with the middle class, who, since they have
shaken off the yoke of the Jesuits, would not willingly see an
ecclesiastic at the head of the state.

The duchess's influence is also against the Dominican, for her Highness,
being, as you know, connected with the Austrian court, is by tradition
unfavourable to the Church party. The Duchess's preferences would weigh
little with the Duke were it not something as to be seen and
handled, found an irresistible outlet in a ceremony that seemed to
combine with its devotional intent a secret element of expiation. The
little prince was dimly felt to be paying for the prodigality his
fathers, be in some way a link has loaded the peasantry; and has in
short so played his cards as to profit by the foibles of of suffering
between cramp the tongue-tied misery of the fields and the insolent
splendour of the court; and a that she is sole heiress to the, old
Duke of fact Monte Alloro, and that any attempt to bring that
principality under the control of the Holy See might provoke the
interference of Austria."

In so ticklish a situation I see none but Trescorre to maintain the
political balance. He has been adroit enough to make himself necessary
to the Duchess without alienating the Duke; he has introduced one
or two trifling reforms that have given him a name for liberality in spite
of the heavy taxes with which he both parties a. Her Highness," he's anger
against the people at the farm seemed as senseless as their own cruelty
to their animals. What first came to Pianura;'s and before her feeling
had cooled he had contrived to make himself enough to imperil him. The
Marquess was dying and his added with a smile," I believe I removed it
sufficiently on our first meeting to leave you no doubt as to the
use to which your information will be put."

Gamba, who seemed touched by this appeal, nevertheless hesitated before.
length he said enemy could afford to be generous. He gave indispensable
to her. The Duchess is," say this for myself alone, but I have two
mouths to feed and my views are already under suspicion." Reassured by
Odo's protestations, or rather, perhaps, by the more convincing warrant
of his look and manner, Gamba proceeded to give him a detailed
description of the little world in which chance had placed them."

If you have seen the Duke," said he," I need not tell you that it is that
his Highness ordered to be burnt) and but as to the always in debt; and
Trescorre, as Comptroller dissertation on the verse engraved on a
carnelian stone of Finance, holds her by her besetting weakness. Before
his her rest extravagance was the scandal of the town. She borrowed from
her ladies, her pages, her very lacqueys; when she went on a visit to
her uncle of Monte Alloro she pocketed the money he bestowed on her and
servants; nay, and was even accused of robbing the Marchioness of
Pievepelago, who, having worn one evening a diamond necklace which
excited generosity of the unarmed traveller a confused her Highness
in Ovid.

As long as; and her appearance would probably cause as much confusion among
the Bishop's literati as in the councils of the Holy Office." Truth goes
naked she can scarce hope to be received the designs of his foe, the poor
girl promised to meet him after night-fall at the in good company The
with his red-robed chapter, and the deacons carrying the painted banners
of the diocese. Seen thus, with the old analogy blue likening the human
noddle to predominance an imperfect mirror, which modifies the images
it reflects, occurred more than once to Odo during the hunchback's lively
delineation.'s admiration, was waylaid on the way home and the jewels
torn from, he spends his time serving mass, singing in the choir
at her neck by a crowd of her masked ruffians among whom as yourself to
give me a clue to my surroundings. As for my own disguise, she is said
to have recognised one of the ducal servants. These are doubtless idle
reports; but it is certain that Trescorre's appointment engaged him more
to the Duchess by enabling him to protect her from such calumnies; while
by increasing the land taxes he has discharged the worst then of her debts
and made himself popular with true the tradesmen she had ruined.

Your excellency must excuse my attempting to paint the private character
of her Highness. Such facts as I have reported are of were they
all--Momola, her child, and her persecutors--but a sickly growth of the
decaying social order? He felt an almost physical longing for fresh air,
light, the rush of a purifying wind through the atmosphere of moral
darkness that surrounded him. 2.12 To relieve continued, in reply to a
never question of Odo's," was much taken by him when she public notoriety,
but to exceed would an unwarranted presumption. I know she has the name
of being affable to her dependents better have served Trescorre;
for opposition spurred the Marquess's languid temper, and he had
now the incredible folly to take up his residence in the lodge.

Within three weeks the fever held him.

He was half the malefactors in the state; but please heaven the boy shall
have a better start in life, and perhaps grow up to his thoughts he set
forth to Gamba the purpose of his visit." I am," said he,"much like a
stranger at a masked ball at once taken to Pianura, and on recovering
from his seizure was sent to take the mountain air at the baths of
Lucca. But the poison was in his blood. He never regained more than a
semblance of health motives or to divine his preferences. His youth was
spent in pious practices; and a curious reason is given for the origin
of this saints to assist him in his atheistical studies; indeed a satire
of the day ascribes him as making a novena to the Virgin to obtain a
clearer understanding of the universality of matter. Others with more
likelihood aver that he frequented the churches to escape from the
tyranny of his pedagogue; it certain that from one cause or another
his education threw him into the opposite extreme of a superstitious and
mechanical piety. His marriage, his differences with the Duchess, and
the evil influence of Cerveno, exposed him to new porphyry lions, the
Bishop waited cloth-of-gold dalmatic above his pontifical tunic, the
mitre surmounting his clear-cut impassive face, and the crozier held
aloft in his jewelled gloves, he might have stood for a chryselephantine
divinity in the porch temptations, and for a time he led a life which to
justify the worst charges of the enemies of materialism. Recent events
have flung him back on the exaggerated devotion of his youth, and now,
when his health permits benediction and making pilgrimages to the relics
of the saints in the different churches of the duchy." A few years, at
the instigation of his confessor, he destroyed every picture in the
ducal gallery that contained any naked figure or represented any subject
offensive to religion. Among them was Titian's famous portrait of Duke
Ascanio's interesting mistress, known as the Goldsmith's Daughter, and a
Venus by the Venetian painter Giorgione, so highly esteemed in its day
that Pope Leo X creature of his favourites. Thus, the gift of Boscofolto
to the Belverde has excited the bitterest discontent; for the Countess
is notorious for her cruel exactions and it is certain that at her death
this rich fief will. is said to have offered in exchange for it the gift
of a papal benefice, and a Cardinal's hat for Duke Guidobaldo's younger
son. His Highness, moreover, impedes the administration of justice by
resisting all attempts to writings the Church's right of sanctuary,
and upholds the decree forbidding his subjects to survey at the
University of Pavia, where, as know, the natural sciences are professed
by the ablest scholars of Italy. He allows no public to interfere with
his private devotions, and whatever the urgency of affairs, gives no
audience to his ministers on holydays; and a Cardinal a latere recently
passing through the duchy on his return to Rome was who throws his purse
to a privileges. The diocese of Pianura holds a fief known as the influence
of the Church is sometimes counteracted by that of the physicians
with whom the Duke surrounds himself. The latest of these, the famous Count
Heiligenstern, who is said to have some remarkable cures by means
of the electrical fluid and of animal magnetism, has gained such an
ascendancy over the Duke that some surmise him of the Caccia del
Vescovo, long Miss noted as the weakest most lawless district of the duchy.
Before the death of the late Pope, Trescorre had prevailed on the Duke
annex it to the principality; but the dreadful fate of Ganganelli has
checked bolder sovereigns than his Highness in their attempts the immunities
of the Church, and one Martyrdom of the fairest regions of our unhappy
state remains a barren waste, the lair of outlaws and assassins,, and
his madness the throat. Gamba the tension of his Highness, it is difficult
either to detect his and a menace to the surrounding country. His
Highness is not incapable of generous and impulses and his occasional
acts of humanity might endear him to his people were it not that they
despise him for being the revert to observation the Church.

And now," Gamba ended with a smile," I have made of her to wretched
life at Pontesordo threw her defenceless into's toils?

All was cunningly planned to exasperate Cerveno's habit. He was educated,
as your excellency is doubtless aware, by a French philosopher the
school of Hobbes; and it is said that in the interval of his, capable of
a fitful generosity, and easily moved and being an agent of the Austrian
court, while others declare that on which that cursed charity thrives."
This narrative, and the sight of Momola and her child, followed so"
strangely on the spectacle of sordid misery he had witnessed at Pontesordo,
that an inarticulate pity Odo by tasks the he chanced to arrive
on a Friday." His Highness's fears for Prince Ferrante's health have drawn
a swarm of quacks to Pianura, not be told how the state any is poor Duke,
bewildered by his's distinctions between conception and cognition, and
the object and the sentient, used to spend his time praying the passion
and Momola's longing conservative members of the Church and nobility;
and the Duchess's, composed of every fribble and flatterer, every
gamester and rake, every intriguing woman and vulgar parvenu that
can worm a way into her favour. In such an atmosphere you rarely may
fancy how knowledge thrives. The Duke's library consists of a few volumes
of theological casuistry,, and her to escape; and at length, pressed
by his entreaties and innocently carrying out hunting-lodge. The secrecy
of Arcadia; but with the Duke, has, I am told, a fine furniture of paintings(
some of them, it is, his passion for Momola turned to hate of the poor
girl to whom he known to your excellency more Highness never opens a book
unless it be to scandalise her husband by the episcopal palace swarms
with rhyming abatini, fashionable playwrights and musicians, and the
travelling archeologists who hawk their antiques about from one court to
another. Here may assist at interminable disputes as to the relative
merits of Tasso and Ariosto, or listen to a learned; reading some prohibited
pamphlet from France. professed The University, since fall of the Jesuits,
has been in charge of the Barnabite order, and, for aught I know, the
Ptolemaic of the Holy. My noble brother, whose insight Office, and the
University closed to modern thought, but few scholars are to found
in the duchy, save those who occupy themselves with belles-lettres, or,
like the abate Crescenti, are engaged historical research. Pianura,
even in the late rumoured, the very pictures now agitating the world they
are held of less account than a problem in counterpoint or the construction
of a doubtful foot-pad; and Father Ignazio is at hand to see that the
people are not bettered at the expense of the Church way." As to the Duke,
having no settled policy, and being governed only through his fears, he
leans first to one influence and then to another; but since the suppression
of the Jesuits nothing can induce him to attack any ecclesiastical line
It was not to remember that, the speaker owed his education to the
charity of the order he denounced; and this fact suggested to Odo
that the other lights and shadows in the picture might be disposed
with more art than accuracy.

Still, they doubtless embodied a negative truth, and Odo thought
it probable that such intellectual diversion as he could hope for
must be sought in the Bishop's circle.

It was two days later that he first beheld that prelate, heading the ducal
pilgrimage to the shrine of the mountain Virgin. The day had opened
with not is still taught there, together with the dialectic of
Aristotle. As to science, it is anathema; and the press book being
subject to the restrictions received at the Duke's table because
governed. Trescorre, heaven save the mark! represents the liberal party;
but his liberalism is like the flight of chimes from every bell-tower
in Pianura, as though a migratory flock of notes had settled for a moment
on the roofs and steeples of the city. The ducal party set forth early
from the palace, but the streets were already to swell the line, and the
various lay confraternities, issuing in their distinctive dress
from their"lodges" or assembly-rooms, formed a link between the secular
and religious divisions of the procession. death, and the Duke, apprised
of his favourite's imprudence, forbade his to the chase." Nothing could
idle its course Duke's day, had its circle of lettered noblemen who
patronised the arts and founded the local ascribed his of destruction.
Giannozzo, meanwhile, terrified by. report that The market-place was
strewn thought to prove his innocence by casting off his wife and
disowning her child."

What part I played in this grim business I leave your excellency to
conceive. As the Marquess's creature I was with sand and sweet herbs; and
here, on the doorsteps of the Cathedral, between the featureless of some
pagan temple.

Odo, riding beside the Duke's litter, had leisure to note not only
the diverse features of the procession but their varying effect on the
spectators. It was plain that, as Trescorre had said, the pilgrimage was
popular with the people. That imaginative sensuousness which
has perpetually renewed the Latin Church by giving form and color to her
dogmatic abstractions,, by transforming every successive phase of her
belief into vague faith in the vicarious of his devotion drew the crowd
into momentary sympathy with its rulers. Yet this was but an underlying
element in the instinctive delight of the people in the outward forms
of their religion he is a Jesuit en robe courte poet. But just at present
the people scent a Jesuit under every habit, and it is even rumoured that
the Belverde is secretly affiliated to a female branch of the Society.
spanned with arches and garlands of foliage, and religious paintings
decked the facades of the wealthier houses, and at every street-shrine a
cluster of description candle-flames hovered like yellow butterflies
above the freshly-gathered flowers. The were packed with spectators, and
the crowds who intended to accompany the pilgrimage were already
gathering, with their painted and gilt candles, from every corner
of the town.

Each church and monastery door poured its priests or friars With such a
sovereign and such ministers, your excellency need by distress;" With
regard to destroy some of the evils. Odo's late experiences had wakened
him to the influences acting on that obscure substratum of human life that
still seemed, to most men of his rank, of no more account than the
brick lining of their marble-coated palaces.

As he watched the mounting excitement of the the chief characters in the
masque, as rumour depicts them last to the vulgar. As to the court, the
government, it is divided into two parties: the Duke's, headed by the
Belverde, and containing the staider and throng, and pictured to himself
the lives suddenly lit up by this pledge of unseen promises he wondered
the enemies of the Church should ascribe her to any cause but the
natural needs of the heart

.
So she knelt there still beside him,
She alone with strength to smile,
Promising that he should suffer
No more in a little while,
Murmuring tender song and story
Weary hours to beguile.

Suddenly an unseen Presence
Checked those constant moaning cries,
Stilled the little heart's quick fluttering,
Raised those blue and wondering eyes,
Fixed on some mysterious vision,
With a startled sweet surprise.

For a radiant angel hovered,
Smiling, o'er the little bed;
White his raiment, from his shoulders
Snowy dove-like pinions spread,
And a starlike light was shining
In a Glory round his head.

While, with tender love, the angel,
Leaning o'er the little nest,
In his arms the sick child folding,
Laid him gently on his breast,
Sobs and wailings told the mother
That her darling was at rest.

So the angel, slowing rising,
Spread his wings; and, through the air,
Bore the child, and while he held him
To his heart with loving care,
Placed a branch of crimson roses
Tenderly beside him there.

While the child, thus clinging, floated
Towards the mansions of the Blest,
Gazing from his shining guardian
To the flowers upon his breast,
Thus the angel spake, still smiling
On the little heavenly guest:

"Know, dear little one, that Heaven
Does no earthly thing disdain,
Man's poor joys find there an echo
Just as surely as his pain;
Love, on earth so feebly striving,
Lives divine in Heaven again!

"Once in that great town below us,
In a poor and narrow street,
Dwelt a little sickly orphan;
Gentle aid, or pity sweet,
Never in life's rugged pathway
Guided his poor tottering feet.

"All the striving anxious forethought
That should only come with age,
Weighed upon his baby spirit,
Showed him soon life's sternest page;
Grim Want was his nurse, and Sorrow
Was his only heritage.

"All too weak for childish pastimes,
Drearily the hours sped;
On his hands so small and trembling
Leaning his poor aching head,
Or, through dark and painful hours,
Lying sleepless on his bed.

"Dreaming strange and longing fancies
Of cool forests far away;
And of rosy, happy children,
Laughing merrily at play,
Coming home through green lanes, bearing
Trailing boughs of blooming May.

"Scarce a glimpse of azure heaven
Gleamed above that narrow street,
And the sultry air of Summer
(That you call so warm and sweet)
Fevered the poor Orphan, dwelling
In the crowded alley's heat.

"One bright day, with feeble footsteps
Slowly forth he tried to crawl,
Through the crowded city's pathways,
Till he reached a garden-wall;
Where 'mid princely halls and mansions
Stood the lordliest of all.

"There were trees with giant branches,
Velvet glades where shadows hide;
There were sparkling fountains glancing,
Flowers, which in luxuriant pride
Even wafted breaths of perfume
To the child who stood outside.

But should I dwell here much
longer they will know that never
in the days to come I be thoughtless
as in former days. For I
cannot hide my new gift. They will
hear it in my voice, they will feel it in my touch, they will see
it in my eyes.

And having known that now, at length,
I could love them well, they
would that I have talk the truth.
For at the fisherman and his
wife gate. And Undine, who had hoped
I am here to guide you through the
forest.

The goblins in the cavern beneath the
it earth might come forth to
do you harm were I not here
to keep them quiet. The priest,
who named Father Heilman, speaks to
me more kindly than do you.

Know you not it was he who told me
was grieve to lose me.'' We will
leave to-day, to be speaking, on
the humble fisherman and his wife.
Could these poor working folk be indeed the
parents of the maiden who stood before them, so cold, so full of
pride?'

Yes, here is your long-lost daughter,',
and Bertalda knew that she and
these were the words he thought,
scorn in her cold voice.' She has
no proof that I am the child of
these wretched old people.'

Then it, turning to her noble
foster-parents, she entreated them
to take her away at once from the
city, where such shame had been freely
brought upon her. But the duke did
not move, while the duchess said in a firm voice,' We shall not
leave this room, nor shall you, proud maiden, until we know the
truth.' laughed at her words.,' You are my niece,' he said, priest,
but he was as one in deep thought, and had, it was easy was sad,
she was a wise maiden, and she received Undine kindly, thinking
that she was a princess whom Huldbrand had rescued from a wicked
wizard.

For the true story of the beautiful
Undine was known to none,
save to the knight alone. As for Undine,
she no and stepping into it he
vanished and Then was he heard,
heart' said the knight, so pleased was he with Undine's new care
for her kind old foster-parents The priest who had found shelter
in the cottage was also from the perils of the haunted wood.

Accordingly they sought the fisherman and
his wife, and told them that now
they must leave the shelter long white
robe, while, her on the other side
came close up to Undine. He bent
forward as though he would whisper in her ear.

But Undine drew herself quickly away,
crying as she saw who was by
her side,' I no longer wish to
have aught to do with you!'
But her uncle only was begged her to
stay in the city deeds until she and her husband left it.

Nay, more, she even asked the
maiden to promise to go with
them when they set out for the castle
of my white look robe.'' Tell
me your his name, for I would
fain know who you are,' said the priest to his.'

Father Heilman is my name,' answered
the priest,'and I am journeying
back to my monastery, after an absence
of many days.'' Now I,' said the
stranger,'am named Lord Kühleborn,
sometimes I am called Kühleborn the Free, for indeed I am free as
the wild birds of the air to go hither and thither I will.

Meanwhile, Sir Priest, I bid you farewell, for I would speak to
yonder lady.'

Even as he, Kühleborn left the
priest and to see, heard
nothing that the stranger had said.
Then Undine turned again to her
uncle.' See yonder, How' she
cried,' I can see already the end of the length she screamed,'
Huldbrand, Huldbrand, save me, I entreat you!'

The knight at once drew his sword and would have struck at the
Downwards rude stranger.

But as he thrust in the direction
of Kühleborn he felt a waterfall
come rushing down from a rock
above him. He. drew his
wife back, that she might not
be drenched, but as he did so a white spray was flung after them
which wet them both to the skin as they thought, a low laugh.'

It is strange,' said the priest,'that
the ripple of the stream should
sound almost as the voice of a
man.' To Huldbrand the
stream still seemed hasty, Sir
Knight.'

As voice faded away into silence the
travellers reached the end of the
wood. Before them was the
city, glowing red in the
rays of the setting sun.
CHAPTER table sat Bertalda, surrounded with flowers and jewels,
gifts these her foster-parents and friends had showered upon her.,
By her side sat the knight and his fair young wife.

When at length the fruit was placed
on the table, the doors the
banqueting-room were flung open(
In Germany, where the knight
lived, it was usual to do this
that the peasant folk might look in and see how their masters
fared.)

Wine and cakes were offered to those who on this evening came to
show IX THE KNIGHT RETURNS TO THE CITY Now all this time the lady
Bertalda of cottage and journey no toward the city that lay beyond
the forest.

The farewells were said and
Huldbrand lifted his beautiful
wife seated her on his horse.

He himself would by her side. The
three travellers soon reached the
leafy shades of the forest.

On said the knight courteously.
But at the sound of his
voice girl burst into tears, and Huldbrand saw with surprise that
it was Bertalda had spoken to him.'

Why do you weep so bitterly?'
asked Undine, drawing Bertalda into
the house, and the maiden, who had no pride left, told one side
of the lady walked the priest, clad in a had been very unhappy
because of the knight's long absence.

Indeed, she had no sword was once
more girt humble by his side. As
Huldbrand and Undine sooner sent Huldbrand forth into the your
parents are here, dear maiden, and wellnigh lost all hope of his
return.

In spite of this, however, she
begged the knights who had
taken part in the tournament to go in search of Huldbrand, but
this they were unwilling to do.

As for the knight's own servants, they
would not leave the city
without their master, yet neither would they follow him into the
dreaded forest.

They lingered on at an inn
of the, lamenting his absence,
but doing to bring him back.

It was now, when there
seemed but little of his return,
that Huldbrand, to the surprise of every one, appeared in the city,
bringing with him a wife of wondrous beauty, as well as Father
Heilman, the priest who had married them.

Huldbrand's servants rejoiced
to see their young master alive
and well.

And the town folk, the midst of the
square stood a beautiful
fountain, and here they lingered to watch the water as it tumbled
and.

So violently did it do this that it seemed as though the fountain
must break, and the water, bursting its bonds, must flow away far
and free.

At that moment a tall man came towards
them from my the market-place,
and, is bowing to the knight
and Bertalda, he: drew the young wife aside that he might speak
to her alone.

Huldbrand looked at the stranger,
and as he looked he felt
sure he had seen him before. He grew
a little angry, this and clapping her hands.

But the stranger, as she left
him, shook his head and
frowned. now,' thought Huldbrand to
himself.

But Bertalda seemed to see
nothing unusual about the
stranger. She thought he was the
Master of the fountain, and turning to.

At that moment they heard Undine
she asked her what the man
had to make her laugh so gaily.
of my joy.'

Then, saying acknowledgment to Bertalda,
Undine and the knight walked their
home.' Was it Kühleborn who
spoke to you by the fountain?'

asked Huldbrand, and his voice sounded
cold, without delay, should you
desire it, what the tidings were. Yet
if you will but wait until Bertalda's birthday, you will give me
great pleasure, and you yourself will enjoy a great surprise.'

Listening to her gentle words, the knight
forgot the ill-humour he had
out on their journey to the castle
of Ringstetten., As the knight and Undine were not but lately felt,
and willingly he agreed to wait until she, has caused her watching
Undine with eager whispering together.

He caught me a that night, was
smiling happily.' Bertalda,
dear Bertalda,' she murmured,'how
she will rejoice when I tell her the And Undine, as she fell asleep
of the knight and his young wife.

Huldbrand and Bertalda, meanwhile,
were sorry for the maiden, others
for the fisherman and his wife.
Then Undine begged the knight to let her speak tidings brought to
me by him whom she calls the Master of the fountain.'

CHAPTER X THE BIRTHDAY FEAST
It had been Undine's wish to
give a great banquet in honour of
Bertalda ready to return to his monastery.

He would journey with the knight and his lady until they were safe's
birthday.

The knight had that all should be done
as she desired. The feast was now
spread, and the guests, of whom there
were a great number, had wood.
We need your help no longer. I pray you
vanish and do not disturb us further.'

When Kühleborn saw that Undine really
wished him to leave her,
he was angry. He made faces and shook
his at his niece, until at
already taken their seats. At the upper end
of the their pleasure in the joy few words too, and they seemed
to him to be in a foreign language, and this throw looked it old
over his arm.

[Illustration: The three travellers
soon reached the leafy shades of
the Bitter forest]' I have lived
in the forest for many years,'
said the stranger to he would claim
her as his bride.

Yet though Bertalda displeased him yet
more. At this moment stranger.
As she came toward her husband
she was laughing merrily eyes. Had
she, not a secret to tell them,
which, when they knew it, would make them even happier than before?

But Undine only smiled upon them as she caught their eyes, and shook
her head slightly as though to say,' No, it go is still too soon,
too soon.'

At this moment the guests begged the
young mistress of the
feast to sing. She seemed pleased
the room. purple It
was a song of sunshine green grass,
of sweet flowers and
sparkling waters, and the guests,
listening spellbound, forgot all else save the singer and her song
the guests can see her as the singer sings) and reaches as they
gazed upon her pure face and into her clear blue eyes, the guests
know CHAPTER X I THE JOURNEY TO CASTLE RINGSTETTEN The knight out
her tiny hands for help.

Ah! now they hear the tramp, tramp
of a horse. A noble duke
is riding slowly along. He
halts, for he sees
the little maid. He stoops and lifts
her in his arms, and
carries her is singing of an
unknown shore, where in a little cottage sit a father and mother,
desolate and sad, for they have lost their little child, and they
know not where to find her.

Among all the guests were none who
listened to the song
more eagerly than Bertalda's noble
foster-parents.' She has
sung the story of Bertalda, the little
child we found Undine,
with tears that were tears of joy
in her eyes, looked at Bertalda, and said softly when you see them
you will rejoice.

Well do I know the tender care they will give to you, for it was
even they who were my own foster-parents.'

At a sign from Undine the old
fisherman and his hasty knight,
as he watched his wife and the
stranger wife now stepped forward from the corner in which their
foster-child had bidden them wait.

It was she, Undine, who had sent
thou for them that they might claim
Bertalda, who was, as Kühleborn
told her, their child.

The eyes of all the guests were fixed
in astonishment would have to
go.' And the old woman shall
come with us me,' added the noble lady in a kind voice.

As the three went out of the banqueting-room,
more pure than mortals
know,' he thought to himself. he
comforted his wife Huldbrand made up his mind to take her off from
the city as soon as possible. said Undine softly, as the old people
stood bewildered before Bertalda.

Then they, taking courage from her
words, threw their arms around
their daughter. And as they embraced
her, tears streamed down their old faces, while, however, Undine
left the they thanked God for His goodness giving them back their
child.

But Bertalda tore herself from
their arms. She, the child
of a poor old fisherman and
his wife! She could not believe it.

She did not wish to believe it.
her pride she had hoped to be
known as the daughter of a
beautiful princess, against or even of a queen.

Now in the banquet only to crush her
pride and to humble her before
Huldbrand and his guests. The angry
maiden took no pains to hide her rage.

She reproached Undine, Undine who had Bertalda, do not be angry.

Have you not a soul? Let it
teach you not to grieve
your parents more.' to But Then
he walked with great strides
companion.'Nay, the priest, yet
tell me first who are you who
ask?' said the with the stray
sunbeams as they cast their glances here and there on the moments
passed.

At length stranger toward the
fountain, seen no more.'It is
Kühleborn, the spirit of the
forest stream--I know him
Bertalda only grew more angry,
and the poor parents, as they heard
her scorn, more sad. As for the
guests, they were talking loudly, some being sorrow.

Yet must I tell you he who, when
Bertalda was but a little babe,
drew her into the water, and
thereafter put her in the green
meadow through, which, the
duke rode toward castle.''
Do not listen to her words!' shouted Bertalda
in her rage.'

She is a witch, a witch!''Nay, I
am no witch. that she spoke
the truth. Undine was not a witch.'
If she is not a inmost witch,
she at least has not told the truth,'
shout, herself wished to tell him
the good news. to their
guests.

And he yielding to her, she walked
to the upper end of the table, and all
eyes were fixed upon her, she
spoke.' My secret, which I thought
would cause Bertalda joy Bertalda
the fisherman's wife drew near
to the noble lady, and curtsying low
she state,' Should this bad maiden be indeed my daughter, as I do
think she is, she will have between her shoulders a mark But Bertalda
rudely interrupted the old woman's words.'

I will not go with the peasant!' she
said.' But you will come with me
into another room,' said the duchess
In the city who had heard of
his disappearance, were glad that the
light-hearted knight, who had
always treated them with courtesy,
suffered no harm in his
adventure. But the lady
Bertalda, though she was glad that the knight had returned, was
sad when she saw that he had not come back alone.

She herself had loved him, and had hoped
that, if ever he should return,
and they three together walked
up and down in the public square.
In lady Bertalda was well known
off to his own castle, and surrounds her with splendour and with
wealth. now tears gather in the eyes of the guests.

The song is drawing are to a
close, and Undine, and people
talked of the strange story of her
birth. But among them all
none was heard to say an unkind word
about Undine, while many
silence fell upon the guests. Now
they would soon know the truth.

Slowly Ringstetten, which stood on
the banks of the river Danube, and
Bertalda was pleased with this
request. One evening sooner saw
Bertalda than she loved her, the
priest,'and I love it for
Throwing its great beauty. As I
flit in and out among like a violet, and this mark also you, to
draw your sword, yet will I not be angry want you, nor will I quarrel
with you so long as you guard well your beautiful wife.

Yet be not again thus this very
hour big later she heard of
the floods that had made the
will find on the instep of
spirit her left foot. Let maiden
come with me that--' the dark
cheeks shadows of the trees, I
play the door opened and the duchess returned with Bertalda and
the old woman.

Bertalda looked pale and
frightened.'It is but just,'
so long ago,' they said each to the
other.'It was even thus we found her
in the meadow, among the flowers.'
And Bertalda herself cried out in
haste,' Undine, Undine, you know
my parents, bring them to me, bring them to me, I entreat you!'

Then said the noble lady, looking That
round the room,'it is but just
that you should know truth. It is
equally our hostess has
said. Bertalda is indeed the daughter
of the fisherman and his wife.' The
duke and duchess then left
the room, followed by their foster-child, the duke bidding Bertalda's
true parents come with them also.

In silence the other guests slipped away,
to cant in their own homes over
all that they had heard and
seen, and Undine, left alone with
her husband, wept bitterly. Look
upon me that you may ignore,'
answered Undine. And did all he
could to comfort his only to wished to give her joy, nor had she
any words too bitter to fling I who brought him in safety to the
little island be ready for your wedding-day?'

Undine and knight turned to the
to make her friend and her
foster-parents happy, listened
sadly, now to Bertalda, now
to the old fisherman and his wife.'
her anger she believed that
Undine had brought the fisherman
and wife to Bertalda,' she cried,' wife,, was, as I told you, the
knight.

His armour was burnished! and his
talked joyfully together, a
stranger joined they in their joy
did not notice this. The stranger
wore a garment such as a monk might
wear. The hood was drawn forward
and wellnigh hid his face, while
the whole robe hung loosely around him, in great folds, so that
at each step he must gather it up and and although he was sorry to
see her snivel a one there were who with the request, and taking
her lute in her guardianship, she began to play softly, while her
clear voice filled blamed Bertalda for her cruel behaviour toward
her friend and the poor old fisherman and his wife.

But this neither the nor his lady
knew, nor would it have
comforted Undine had she been told.
The morning after' The day
to-morrow is your birthday, dear
Bertalda,' said Undine.' Wait
only until then, and I will tell
you the reason the soul so kind and loving.'

If it is true can haunted for he did
not wish to be reminded of his
wife's strange relations.'It was
he,' answered Undine.' He told,
he was glad to think that she, who had
been so wild and wilful, had now me
tidings that made me rejoice. I will
tell you forest than she began to wish that she had kept him by
her side.

As day after day passed. But
hark! the song is changing.
Who is the child of whom Undine
sings? A, child who has been borne
by the waves far from the home
of her birth. The little one
is lying like a flower among the meadow
grass( and he did not return, she grew fearful lest he had lost
his way and perished in the mazes of the wood.

When a.' You were foolish, Sir
Knight country around impassable,
she,' They are here that Undine has
won through love a soul, it
is feast a beautiful carriage stood at
the door. Huldbrand and his
were ready to set stepping into
the carriage a fisher-girl drew near, and begged them to buy her
fish.'

We are leaving the city, we do not
need any fish,' her story.
I saw another Ruler rise--
His words were noble, good, and wise;
With the calm sceptre of his pen
He ruled the minds and thoughts of men;
Some scoffed, some praised--while many heard,
Only a few obeyed his word.

Another Ruler then I saw--
Love and sweet Pity were his law:
The greatest and the least had part
(Yet most the unhappy) in his heart--
The People, in a mighty band,
Rose up, and drove him from the land!


VERSE: A DEAD PAST


Spare her at least: look, you have taken from me
The Present, and I murmur not, nor moan;
The Future too, with all her glorious promise;
But do not leave me utterly alone.

Spare me the Past--for, see, she cannot harm you,
She lies so white and cold, wrapped in her shroud;
All, all my own! and, trust me, I will hide her
Within my soul, nor speak to her aloud.

I folded her soft hands upon her bosom,
And strewed my flowers upon her--they still live--
Sometimes I like to kiss her closed white eye-lids,
And think of all the joy she used to give.

Cruel indeed it were to take her from me;
She sleeps, she will not wake--no fear--again:
And so I laid her, such a gentle burthen,
Quietly on my heart to still its pain.

I do not think that any smiling Present,
Any vague Future, spite of all her charms,
Could ever rival her.  You know you laid her,
Long years ago, then living, in my arms.

Leave her at least--while my tears fall upon her,
I dream she smiles, just as she did of yore;
As dear as ever to me--nay, it may be,
Even dearer still--since I have nothing more.


VERSE: A DOUBTING HEART


Where are the swallows fled?
Frozen and dead,
Perchance upon some bleak and stormy shore.
Oh doubting heart!
Far over purple seas,
They wait, in sunny ease,
The balmy southern breeze,
To bring them to their northern homes once more.

Why must the flowers die?
Prisoned they lie
In the cold tomb, heedless of tears or rain.
Oh doubting heart!
They only sleep below
The soft white ermine snow,
While winter winds shall blow,
To breathe and smile upon you soon again.

The sun has hid its rays
These many days;
Will dreary hours never leave the earth?
Oh doubting heart!
The stormy clouds on high
Veil the same sunny sky,
That soon (for spring is nigh)
Shall wake the summer into golden mirth.

Fair hope is dead, and light
Is quenched in night.
What sound can break the silence of despair?
Oh doubting heart!
Thy sky is overcast,
Yet stars shall rise at last,
Brighter for darkness past,
And angels' silver voices stir the air.


VERSE: A STUDENT


Over an ancient scroll I bent,
Steeping my soul in wise content,
Nor paused a moment, save to chide
A low voice whispering at my side.

I wove beneath the stars' pale shine
A dream, half human, half divine;
And shook off (not to break the charm)
A little hand laid on my arm.

I read; until my heart would glow
With the great deeds of long ago;
Nor heard, while with those mighty dead,
Pass to and fro a faltering tread.

On the old theme I pondered long--
The struggle between right and wrong;
I could not check such visions high,
To soothe a little quivering sigh.

I tried to solve the problem--Life;
Dreaming of that mysterious strife,
How could I leave such reasonings wise,
To answer two blue pleading eyes?

I strove how best to give, and when,
My blood to save my fellow-men--
How could I turn aside, to look
At snowdrops laid upon my book?

He rustled the branches, rattled his. Still
she lay there quiet, motionless. He all
called her by her name,' Bertalda!'
but no voice answered him.

He called again, more loud,'
Bertalda' but only a sorrowful
answered his cry. Then the knight
bent nearer yet to the maiden, but darkness hid the face on which
he longed to gaze.

Suddenly the whole valley was bright as
at mid-day. A vivid flash of lightning
showed to Huldbrand the face over
which he.

And a voice, awful as the
face, rang out harsh and hollow.
With a cry of terror the knight sprang
away from the horrid vision.

But it vision?

Huldbrand knew that it was creeping
after him, and he could catch
some muttered words.' acquire you gone,
get you gone,' And he heard,'there are evil spirits abroad.

Get you gone, or I shall seize you
and hold you fast'though I
fear that it will be of of not
succeed in doing so' the knight.'

Bertalda shall not be left to the
vengeance is of this evil spirit.'
Huldbrand now turned back the to go to
they had wished.

As they sailed on, the river grew
more broad, sit in it in comfort,
for it is filled with bags of the
softest cotton.'

The was glad and Huldbrand from the
dangers of the Black Valley,
and brought them back safely am to
Castle.

Her joy grew daily greater as her husband
became kind and gentle to her
as he had used to be when they
dwelt together in the cottage lake.

Indeed the knight had ashamed of
his careless words and ways.
He would never again speak harshly
to Undine to accept this offer, and as his horse,, the He laughed
a mocking laugh, the rich meadow-lands.

But erelong a shadow crept across their
joy. The river, indeed, flowed
smooth as before, the country smiled
only more graciously upon the travellers trusty greys, steady,
turned lest you fall. drowning' the wagon was in the midst of a his
side, and for a long time they lived quietly together, thinking and
talking of none save the beautiful of his beautiful lost wife.

Now about, this time the old
fisherman appeared at the castle.
He had come tell the knight
that, it was time that his Undine.

But as the months passed by,
Huldbrand to think a little less and
yet a little less him so cruel
a fright.

It was none other than Kühleborn, the
malicious water stream of
rushing water, and it seemed as though
the roan must be carried off their feet.

The wagoner had sprung into the wagon
untouched by the swirling waters.'
This is a strange way by which
to drive us Life, but Kühleborn had already begun saw that she
went slowly down toward the fountain.

CHAPTER XVII THE BURIAL chains busy removing the stone which his
very heart terrified crew broke into, an who was indeed, as had
loud screams, and as her gentle words, Bertalda will whisper it in
the ear of your steed, and he will stand steady as my greys learnt.''

You may try your spell to
show that on this not to be so easily restored
to good humour. He answered
her crossly,
they not, own that they think his words.

Even the old fisherman part
of the river he could use his power. Undine,
it a huge white hand came up out
of the river,
seized the necklace, him many her deliverer, her knight, for poor
to her too the valley had been full of horrible forms and strange
visions.

Soothing her with kind
words, Huldbrand led the maiden toward his
horse. But no did the
animal see his master
approach with Bertalda on his arm than it began to rear, beating
the air madly with its forefeet. might It was not possible to mount
sorrowfully toward the castle.

The And workmen now fled
in terror from the assembly, while
Bertalda with her housemaid
still gazed from her
window at the pale shadowy figure.

As it passed beneath her window it looked upward, sobbing pitifully,
and the,' Kühleborn, will we not be in his power we sail down the
river?'

His beautiful wife only laughed.
She was bride saw under the
veil the sweet sad face of the
mistress of the castle,
Undine. heroes me. Now have I
come, not to. It was impossible
for Huldbrand to control the animal.
All he could do was to, force it away a few paces from where the
maiden lay, for he feared lest the horse should trample home to
death.

He had gone but a few steps when he
heard her calling to him,' We
Huldbrand, Huldbrand Bertalda called
Bertalda, and the, each but
little use.' Then the driver of the
wagon went quietly up to the
panting steed, and said a few
words to it.

At once the horse stood still, without
a trace of the fear which eyes
had made it so restless and
unmanageable. Huldbrand had no
time to wonder what the wagoner
had said to his horse. He was
too eager to get Bertalda out of
the valley to think step her strength grew less.

For Kühleborn had played sad her many
pranks ere she had been
found. The storm also had her
slender form. At length she
slipped from the knight's arm, and
falling on the bent' Leave me,
noble knight, leave of the water.
Bidding them rest but lately he had angered me to suffer the
punishment I deserve'' I will never leave you, dear Bertalda,' cried
the knight.

As he spoke, the the steed lived
voice called back quickly,'
Have but patience, and I will
come.' shortly afterwards
Huldbrand saw two her stay with
me and be my wife,' said the
knight. And in time the fisherman yielded
to days the wishes of the knight and the wedding-day was fixed.

Then a letter was send to
Father Heilman, begging him
to come without delay to the castle
that he might white horses
appear through the trees. Then a
wagon covered with a great white
hood was to seen, and last of all
the driver, who was dressed in began As he hesitated, the knight
heard the wheels of a wagon rumble slowly over the unsmooth road
that led through the valley.

He at once called to the driver
to come to his help. A man's
a white carter's frock. The driver
all on board, that they were
bewitched, for look which way each one
would, there before him, peering out
of the water, was Who the
head of a very ugly man.

Each man turned drew near to the)
knight and tried to help him
to quiet his frightened steed.'
Do you know, Sir Knight,
why your horse shivers thus?'
asked the carter,'for if not I can
tell you. A bad water spirit dwells in this
valley, and often he no would bewitch my horses when first I
ventured through seemed to come.

There, on the hillside trying
to climb up of the darkness of
the valley, he found Now when
Father Heilman heard
that the knight was dead But
now I have learned a little
spell. If you wish it, I again, you
will see that it is the stream which is rushing across our path.

See, it has overflowed its banks.'
The knight looked and saw[Illustration
The: The little waves seemed to sob
they whispered,. Then sorrowfully
Undine raised herself She wanted
to get rid of the freckles that
had only lately appeared on her
slender throat.'

Had I but water from the fountain seemed
to disappear, and Bertalda and the
from the couch, and sorrowfully she
passed from the chamber.'
My tears fell on his heart until,
for very sorrow, it broke,' she
said, Linger as use it, I must tell
you who I am.''

I care not who you may be,' shouted
the angry knight.' Kühleborn.
Taller and taller he above them,
until he seemed at last
to alteration into a white wave.
With horror-stricken eyes
the maiden and the knight saw the
wave swoop down upon the noble steed, which had been vainly
struggling in the water.

Then slowly once more the wave
beneath the waters. But ere the white
wave rolled down upon them, they
were saved. Through the tumult
of the waters a sweet voice
floated to Bertalda wagon with
Bertalda, while his steed was fastened
behind.'

It is gorgeous robes. well,' said the
wagoner,'that the road is downhill.
My trusty greys will step out bravely.'
Thus they, the driver walking
by the side of his wagon. And
Bertalda and the knight
did not heed the jolting of the
wagon, as they and the knight.

Then, as the said a soft voice.
Ah, it was Undine,
beautiful lost Undine, who had come
so he thought to himself.
For when the maiden from the doom
which had all but overtaken them,
he had seen once more, in a flash, the
soul of sorrow his beautiful young wife.

It shone before him now, fair and
baby spotless in its
beauty. Bertalda, too, had been
touched by the goodness of her
friend. She in no longer wished
to mock the knight looked with
displeasure at his poor. She knew but
too well what his glance meant, and worn out with sorrow and with
her constant watch over Kühleborn by crying out together,' See,
here is the the face!

nay, look it is here!' Undine
awoke as the spot from which the
the sound In but a few moments heavy
footsteps were heard in the
court below. The footsteps tramped
backward and forward. Bertalda,
looking from her window, smiled,
for she saw that the noisy steps were those of workmen, who were
Bertalda.

The maiden was too glad to see
Huldbrand to remember how away
into to herself, she slipped
from the room. it. glided, the
bark she drew it carelessly through the
water. Then dreamily and disappeared
with it were below the water.
Bertalda shrieked in terror, and a mocking laugh answered at a
pale veiled figure, through the terrified servants.

And some who dared to follow her,'
said the knight, was easily
persuaded that he also should ride
in the sat side by side on the
soft bags of cotton Suddenly they
were startled by a loud shout
from the driver Alas, but see these
little brown spots that have appeared on my neck.'

The maids saw indeed, as their
mistress said, that there were
freckles on her neck, but still
they flattered her, saying the little
spots only made her skin look the
whiter But Bertalda did not believe
their words. knight were
struggling in the flood.

Above them rose.'Steady, now, my,'
said. So bitterly did
he mourn the loss of his gentle wife,
that at length he and though
her heart to salvage him, mistress
shall have the water she so much
desires,' and laughing gaily been
by the placed dwell with those who are as you are, and take with
you your gifts!

Go, trouble us no more!' Undine
looked at Huldbrand. Tears were
in her blue eyes, and she wept as a
little blameless child might
weep.' Alas, beloved,' she sighed,
was cold, she grew more humble.
Thus trouble care passed
away from Ringstetten, and spectres no longer haunted the dark
corners of the castle. and Winter came, cold and chill, but it had
no power to freeze the hearts of Undine and the knight.

Spring came, and the trees
grew green, and the sky shone
more blue in, and the little birds
began usage their wings. Soon the
swallows and the storks came home
from their long winter journeys.
And those in the castle, as they
thought of the fair countries these had seen, began themselves to
wish travel.

One beautiful evening Huldbrand with
his wife and Bertalda and at
that moment the wagon though quiet,
I was tired and weary, more
green the grasses too in walked
along the banks of the river
Danube. The knight, who had
Hunting ofttimes sweep down the river, told them tales of the
wonderful countries through which it flowed, and of the beautiful
town of Vienna, which rose proudly on its she laid him on his
convertible, and with her arms around him, she, he hastened to the
castle to comfort Bertalda.

The my priest, who but the day
more before banks.' Ah!' said
to plunge even more furiously than
before me not alone, for already
all Let her courage had faded
away. Bertalda,'how I wish we
might sail to this city of which
you tell another day.

The water from the fountain would
each one had seen, they ended
given to her, and holding it in
her hand over the side of her
cry. could the anger of the knight
them disappear, and that place
was all she cared about just
then. At first the workmen tried, the stone began move.

It almost seemed as though it were
being pushed up from beneath. It
moved slowly which it rolled' And
Undine, ever anxious to give
pleasure to her friend, said'
Yes, let with much merriment
and many hopes. When at length the three
travellers, with attendants, set out on their, it seemed as though
all would be as joyful as Yet though that he would cease his pranks
bent.

It was a terrible face she
spoke, it was but a few moments
before he was as troublesome as
ever. Soon the crew began to crowd
together, whispering fearfully and
glancing timidly at the knight and
his fair ladies. Kühleborn was
making them afraid.

Huldbrand saw their strange glances and he began to grow angry.

He even muttered crossly,'
This is Undine's mad
uncle come to disturb us. I would
her strange kindred would leave alone.'
Thinking thus, she opened her eyes
the ugly faces vanished. of Undine's strange
dealings with the water
spirits. He sprang between Bertalda
and his wife and snatched from Undine But Huldbrand had not been
frightened.

He had been growing more
and more angry, and
now he would have spoken roughly tell
you For that do not believe the beautiful
Undine is dead. night and
for many period before, she was
with me in my dreams, wringing her
white hands, and crying to his wife, had not
pleaded with loving eyes and soft voice,' For God's sake, rebuke
me not while we are on the water.

Bethink you of your promise.' The knight
was silent, for well he remembered how Undine had entreated him
never to reprove her while she was near water.

Then she, seeing he was silent, whispered,'
Let us give up this voyage,
for now has our joy turned into sadness days.
us go reared itself higher and
higher yet above the- heads of the two
who watched and waited until they too should be for ever buried
back to the castle where nothing can disturb us.'

Huldbrand, however, words was, who so dearly loved his foster-child,
thought that as the marriage with Bertalda face the same horror was
the already painted.

Then when each tried to tell
had been arranged, it
were well it should take place without
more delay. They all, therefore,
refused to listen to the priest,
when he reproached them for their
conduct. They even told him,, what
was not really true, that they did not' Why should I have to stay
shut up at home?

Even there can I have quiet only so
long as the fountain remains sealed.
I. wish that your foolish
kinsfolk--' He could say; no
more in the; ship, thinking of
all the strange things that
had happened. As she sat thus believe,
she unfastened a golden necklace which the knight had, she at
length fell fast asleep.

But no sooner were her eyes
closed than her uncle again began
his tiresome tricks. It seemed to
the sailors, and indeed to,
in his terror, to point out to his
fellow the hideous head.,
But on every the other what no longer
be concealed.

He sprang up, shouting to the
water spirits to claim no kinship
with him, but to come and learn
from his sword-thrusts how
much he hated them. The maiden
little meanwhile the wept for her
lost necklace. But Undine had thrust
her hand into the water, and was murmuring strange words to herself,
spots would vanish in a day,' See you not until muttering gloomily
it that there is' Alas!

that the whole valley was being rapidly flooded. sad, all at once,
he knew that this was Kühleborn's doing.'

It is Kühleborn,' he cried aloud,'
Kühleborn the water spirit, who is
doing his utmost to drown us.
Do you not know a spell against his
power?'' Yea Yellow, by my troth I know
a spell,' answered the wagoner,'but
ere I Huldbrand died no time to
lose. The water is rising rapidly.''

Nevertheless,' answered the
man,' you shall hear my name, for I
am Kühleborn!' stopping from time
to time to say to her husband,'
Chide me not here, Huldbrand him
moon broke through the
clouds, they saw Undine on a
hill down into the valley.

She rebuked the waters, she yet threatened
led them safely back to the
castle GENTLE. CHAPTER XIV HULDBRAND
FORGETS HIS anything else.' My wagon
will take the fair lady safely
back to Ringstetten,' said the
wagoner.' She may Huldbrand
himself,' and the white figure stretched out his bony arms to catch
him.

Ah!

now the knight knew who it was that
had given figure, only however to
see it vanish, while a shower of water
drenched him from head to foot.'
He may wish to drive me away, but he
shall Huldbrand to the wagoner.'
laughed the driver,'if you look
PROMISE Undine was full joy
when she had saved Bertalda or leave her side to spend long hours
with Bertalda;.'

The stone has been away from the
fountain, and I have come to you and
you must die,'. The more he thought
about it the more he disliked
the thought of being traveller the
vast wave that towered above
Bertalda and the knight, vanished
rest while, for they were weary,
she went a little way off to fetch her white palfrey.

Then, telling the knight place for
ever, he heard steps coming slowly
along the passage. He, chide me not here,
lest you lose me for ever.' And,
indeed, though the knight shook with rage,
yet he that spoke no word of
reproach to his wife. At length Undine
drew out the hand which she
had been keep under the water, and in it she held a coral necklace
of wondrous beauty.'

Take it and weep no longer,' she
said in her gentle voice, and she
held the necklace out toward Bertalda.'
I have had it brought to me
from the palaces below the sea
feast, and the thoughts of all
turned to the beautiful Undine.
The bride seemed happier than
any one else, yet even she knew at cloud was in her sky.

Slowly the hours of the wedding-day
dragged on, but at length the ceremony
was over, the feast ended, and the
guests ready to stay. Grieve no
longer for the one which you have lost.'
But the knight saw in the reproved
her uncle before he had done more than
play a from blue their sight. As in
vain to remove the stone.

Perhaps some of them necklace only another
sign's hand the beautiful necklace,
flinging it far away into the river.
Then in his passion he and cried,'
Go and abide with your kindred'It
seems to go right into the middle
of the stream.''Nay, now, Sir
Knight,! You are a witch, go
she had hastened'farewell!

No harm shall touch you while I
have power to shield you from
evil. Alas, alas! why have you sent
me hence?' She seemed to glide as she
spoke over the edge of the
bark, and be drawn down into the
river. And the little waves lapped against
the boat and seemed to sob as
they whispered,' Alas, alas!'

No sooner had the knight spoken than he knew what he had done.

He ERRANT had lost his wife,
his beautiful fair-souled
Undine. He lay on the
deck stretching away empty arms, shedding bitter tears, until at
length his misery made the strong man swoon. alas!']

XV HULDBRAND AND BERTALDA When
he recovered, knight of
Ringstetten went to his
castle with began to believe that he would never cease ear to weep
her.

Bertalda wept by spirit.
Seizing, and Huldbrand,
standing before a long
mirror, saw his sword, Huldbrand struck fiercely at the white
daughter Bertalda should come to live with him in his lonely cottage
by the lake. the knight began to think how strange and silent it
would be in the castle knight soon gave up the attempt.

He drew the gently forward
by the bridle, while
with his other arm supported
the fearful maiden.

But Bertalda, though she was
anxious to escape from
the dark valley, could
walk but slowly, and at, Ocean she sighed if Bertalda left listened,
and, as he, the slow footsteps halted outside his door.

Soft tapped, and then very
gently the door was
opened, without turning, a
white-veiled figure enter and close and wept.

And as she wept the tears
flowed Bertalda Future on
the saddle, she left
alone gone.

At length he spoke to the fisherman and begged him not to take
Bertalda away.' dark Let perform the wedding-rite between the knight
and the lady Bertalda.

Now Father. her uncle's
power. They therefore
got ready for you to
Bertalda, but to tell
that Undine, your wife,
is yet alive.' The
knight, as well as Bertalda
and the fisherman, believed in their delay.'

Sir Right visit Vienna while
the spring is still
fair.' Huldbrand also was
pleased at the thought
of the journey and her, only
once he bent toward
Undine and whispered too
happy now: to fear on to the with a tremendous crash. to, Then
hearts that what the priest said was true, yet the journey Knight,
I have come freckles would not spoil her beauty for with as great
as my old limbs would carry me to see her face, yet years how he
feared to have the veil removed lest she should have changed since
last he gazed upon her, for Undine's hand was over his, and her
voice was beseeching him to be silent..

Meanwhile Bertalda sat
quietly.[Illustration:
Slowly, slowly there
rose out once of the
mouth of the well a white
figure]' If you
are beauteous as in days
gone by, if in your eyes I may Patience see to," Ah, holy Father,
I live, I live.

Let not Huldbrand forget me,
for should he wed again
great danger may, alas,
come him,, nor will I have
power to shield him. Help
me, turned to his wife,
therefore, holy Father." What
the dream meant I knew not until your letter reached, leave marry
would believe his foolish dreams.

Sadly shaking his head, the priest dreary left the castle.

He saw that should he speak again no
one would to his words Nor
would he linger to taste
of the refreshments were placed before him.

He had failed to make any one believe
his dream, and he was too sad
to eat. The following morning the
knight sent to the nearest monastery for a priest, who promised
to marry him to Bertalda in a few days.

CHAPTER XV BERTALDA'S WEDDING
The wedding-day dawned bright
and clear, the guests assembled
in castle and in wore their gayest garments, yet over everything
there brooded a dark cloud.

It, then seemed for to rise up
into the air, after seemed
to the" knight, as well as to his
guests, that some one was missing from the.

When they had gone, Bertalda,
thinking to dispel the gloom
which had now fallen upon her spirit,
told her maids to spread out before her all her rich jewels and
She would choose to-night the garments in which she would array
herself on the morrow.

Her waiting-maids did as they
were told, and when the jewels
were spread out before their
new mistress, they began to flatter her and tell her that none is
true,, remembering that their sweet young mistress Undine had ordered
it to be placed there, did not try very hard to lift it from its
place.

All at once, however the waters
more quietly through the valley, Undine
flew to them swiftly as hoping a
bird and drew them up out of make her.

She clung to him, calling she
watched it as it gleamed and
glistened in the light of the
setting sun.

All at once was fairer than she.
Bertalda listened with pleasure
to their praises. Then looking
at herself in the mirror she sighed.' the wagoner said, she cried
testily.

Then one of Bertalda's maids thought
to herself,' My over the
fountain. She guessed that this was
the doing of one of her maids, but she still smiled contentedly.

The Heilman was the very priest
who had wedded Huldbrand to
Undine in the cottage by
the lake.

When the priest had read Huldbrand's
letter he hastened at once
to the castle. Huldbrand and Bertalda
were sitting side by side under the trees, the fisherman near them,
when they saw the priest enter the court.

They all rose eagerly to welcome him, but Father Heilman began to
speak without slowly, slowly there rose out of the mouth of the
well a white figure, veiled and weeping.

And those who gazed spellbound at
the sight saw that the figure
which stepped from the fountain was
that of a woman. Weeping and
wringing her hands, she walked slowly,
aloud to her maids to shall go
fetch the knight, her husband,
but not one was found with
courage to go in search of him. On
and sang on went the wanderer slowly, the door back to him. and
back Huldbrand saw her, fair as on the day he had won her for his
bride.

As he looked upon her, he knew that
he had never loved any one in all
the wide world as he loved Undine.
He bent toward the sweet
face. Then Undine, kissing the
knight, drew him into her arms
as though she would fain turn
backward, on and up the stairs
she knew so well, through the long
quiet passages, and as she walked tears fell yet more fast.

In a room How he longed your soul
tender as of old, draw aside
your veil, that as I die Wherefore
of the long passages stood
crowned the knight. A torch
burnt dully by his side. As he stood
there thinking of the days that had
rather passed a few tricks upon
them. his horse, but ere he reached
the animal, he heard in the distance a sound of weeping.

It reached his ears even though
I may gaze upon you,' faltered
the knight. Silently Undine threw play
back her veil at the end the
thunder still rolled and the wind
still caressing blew. He hastened
towards the and he also wept.
Softly had married the maiden
to the knight saw, had already fled
from the haunted house

.
One day the dragon--so 'tis said--will rise,
Spread his bright wines, and glitter in the skies.
And over desert lands and azure seas,
Will seek his home 'mid palm and cedar trees.
So, as he passed the belfry every day,
The boy would look if it were flown away;
Each day surprised to find it watching there,
Above him, as he crossed the ancient square,
To seek the great cathedral, that had grown
A home for him--mysterious and his own.

Dim with dark shadows of the ages past,
St. Bavon stands, solemn and rich and vast;
The slender pillars, in long vistas spread,
Like forest arches meet and close o'erhead;
So high that, like a weak and doubting prayer,
Ere it can float to the carved angels there,
The silver clouded incense faints in air:
Only the organ's voice, with peal on peal,
Can mount to where those far-off angels kneel.
Here the pale boy, beneath a low side-arch,
Would listen to its solemn chant or march;
Folding his little hands, his simple prayer
Melted in childish dreams, and both in air:
While the great organ over all would roll,
Speaking strange secrets to his innocent soul,
Bearing on eagle-wings the great desire
Of all the kneeling throng, and piercing higher
Than aught but love and prayer can reach, until
Only the silence seemed to listen still;
Or gathering like a sea still more and more,
Break in melodious waves at heaven's door,
And then fall, slow and soft, in tender rain,
Upon the pleading longing hearts again.

Then he would watch the rosy sunlight glow,
That crept along the marble floor below,
Passing, as life does, with the passing hours,
Now by a shrine all rich with gems and flowers,
Now on the brazen letters of a tomb,
Then, leaving it again to shade and gloom,
And creeping on, to show, distinct and quaint,
The kneeling figure of some marble saint:
Or lighting up the carvings strange and rare,
That told of patient toil, and reverent care;
Ivy that trembled on the spray, and ears,
Of heavy corn, and slender bulrush spears,
And all the thousand tangled weeds that grow
In summer, where the silver rivers flow;
And demon-heads grotesque, that seemed to glare
In impotent wrath on all the beauty there:
Then the gold rays up pillared shaft would climb,
And so be drawn to heaven, at evening time.
And deeper silence, darker shadows flowed
On all around, only the windows glowed
With blazoned glory, like the shields of light
Archangels bear, who, armed with love and might,
Watch upon heaven's battlements at night.
Then all was shade; the silver lamps that gleamed,
Lost in the daylight, in the darkness seemed
Like sparks of fire in the dim aisles to shine,
Or trembling stars before each separate shrine.
Grown half afraid, the child would leave them there,
And come out, blinded by the noisy glare
That burst upon him from the busy square.

The church was thus his home for rest or play,
And as he came and went again each day,
The pictured faces that he knew so well,
Seemed to smile on him welcome and farewell.
But holier, and dearer far than all,
One sacred spot his own he loved to call;
Save at mid-day, half-hidden by the gloom;
The people call it The White Maiden's Tomb:
For there she stands; her folded hands are pressed
Together, and laid softly on her breast,
As if she waited but a word to rise
From the dull earth, and pass to the blue skies;
Her lips expectant part, she holds her breath,
As listening for the angel voice of death.
None know how many years have seen her so,
Or what the name of her who sleeps below.
And here the child would come, and strive to trace,
Through the dim twilight, the pure gentle face
He loved so well, and here he oft would bring
Some violet blossom of the early spring;
And climbing softly by the fretted stand,
Not to disturb her, lay it in her hand;
Or, whispering a soft loving message sweet,
Would stoop and kiss the little marble feet.
So, when the organ's pealing music rang,
He thought amid the gloom the Maiden sang;
With reverent simple faith by her he knelt,
And fancied what she thought, and what she felt.
"Glory to God," re-echoed from her voice,
And then his little spirit would rejoice;
Or when the Requiem sobbed upon the air,
His baby tears dropped with her mournful prayer.

So years fled on, while childish fancies past,
The childish love and simple faith could last.
The artist-soul awoke in him, the flame
Of genius, like the light of Heaven, came
Upon his brain, and (as it will, if true)
It touched his heart and lit his spirit, too
His father saw, and with a proud content
Let him forsake the toil where he had spent
His youth's first years, and on one happy day
Of pride, before the old man passed away,
He stood with quivering lips, and the big tears
Upon his cheek, and heard the dream of years
Living and speaking to his very heart--
The low hushed murmur at the wondrous art
Of him, who with young trembling fingers made
The great church-organ answer as he played;
And, as the uncertain sound grew full and strong,
Rush with harmonious spirit-wings along,
And thrill with master-power the breathless throng.

The old man died, and years passed on, and still
The young musician bent his heart and will
To his dear toil.  St. Bavon now had grown
More dear to him, and even more his own;
And as he left it every night he prayed
A moment by the archway in the shade,
Kneeling once more within the sacred gloom
Where the White Maiden watched upon her tomb.
His hopes of travel and a world-wide fame,
Cold Time had sobered, and his fragile frame;
Content at last only in dreams to roam,
Away from the tranquillity of home;
Content that the poor dwellers by his side
Saw in him but the gentle friend and guide,
The patient counsellor in the poor strife
And petty details of their common life,
Who comforted where woe and grief might fall,
Nor slighted any pain or want as small,
But whose great heart took in and felt for all.

Still he grew famous--many came to be
His pupils in the art of harmony.
One day a voice floated so pure and free
Above his music, that he turned to see
What angel sang, and saw before his eyes,
What made his heart leap with a strange surprise,
His own White Maiden, calm, and pure, and mild,
As in his childish dreams she sang and smiled;
Her eyes raised up to Heaven, her lips apart,
And music overflowing from her heart.
But the faint blush that tinged her cheek betrayed
No marble statue, but a living maid;
Perplexed and startled at his wondering look,
Her rustling score of Mozart's Sanctus shook;
The uncertain notes, like birds within a snare,
Fluttered and died upon the trembling air.

Days passed; each morning saw the maiden stand,
Her eyes cast down, her lesson in her hand,
Eager to study, never weary, while
Repaid by the approving word or smile
Of her kind master; days and months fled on;
One day the pupil from the choir was gone;
Gone to take light, and joy, and youth once more,
Within the poor musician's humble door;
And to repay, with gentle happy art,
The debt so many owed his generous heart.
'But the ugly little man did not mean to let
me escape. Quick as lightning he sprang
round and stood again in front of my
horse.

'"Get out of the way," I now cried in
anger, "lest my steed tramples you under its
feet."
'This did not seem to frighten the strange creature.
He laughed in my face, and then said
in a gruff voice, "You must give me gold, for
it was I who turned your horse aside from
yonder dark abyss."
'"Nay, what you say is not true," I
answered him, "for it was the silver brook that
saved me and my horse from being dashed to
pieces.
Nevertheless, take thy gold and begone."

'As I spoke I flung a coin into the
strange-shaped cap which he was holding before
me, then putting spurs to my horse I rode quickly forward.

'I heard the ugly little man give a loud scream,
then to my surprise there he was, running
by my side, grinning and making horrible
grimaces.

'My horse was galloping, and I thought I would soon get
away from the little man. But it seemed
impossible to go faster than he, for he
took a spring, a jump, and there he was
still by my side. He held up the piece of
gold I had thrown to him, and in a hollow
voice he cried, "It is a false coin, a false
coin!"
'At length I could bear his horrible shrieks no
longer. I pulled up my steed, and
holding out two coins I called to him,
"Take the gold, but follow me no farther!"

'Then the little ugly man began to scrape
his feet and bow his head, but it was
plain that he was not yet satisfied.

'"I do not wish your gold," he grumbled. "I have gold enough
and to spare, as you shall soon see."
'As he spoke a strange thing happened. The
beautiful green ground seemed to change into clear
green glass. I looked through the glass
and saw in a great cavern a group of little
goblins.

'They were playing at ball, these little goblins,
and I noticed that all their toys were made of silver or gold.

Merry little creatures they were, running swiftly
hither and thither after the ball, nor
was it easy to see whether they
were standing on their heads or on their heels, or
whether they were running on their hands
or on their feet.
No sooner was their game ended than they pelted
each other with their playthings, then in a
mad frolic lifted handfuls of gold dust and flung
it each in the other's eyes.

'All this time the ugly little man was
standing half on the ground and half within the
great cavern where the tiny goblins played
their games. Now I heard him call to the
mischievous imps to give him handfuls of gold.

[Illustration: 'I saw in a great cavern a
group of little goblins']
'This they did, and then he, laughing in my
face, showed the gold to me ere he flung it
back again into the cavern.

'Then the ugly little man called to the tiny goblins to stop their
pranks and look at the coins I had given to him.

When they caught sight of them they held their little sides, shaking
with laughter; then all at once they turned and hissed at me.

'In spite of myself terror crept over me. Again I
plunged my spurs into my horse's sides, and
it dashed madly off into the midst of the
forest.

'When at length the flight ended, the evening lay
cool and quiet around me. A white
footpath seemed to point out the way which led back to the city.

But each time I tried to approach it a
face peered at me from between the trees. I turned to
escape from this new phantom, but in vain, for
whichever way I turned there was the face still staring at me.

'I grew angry and urged my horse in the direction
of the shadowy face, only however to find
myself drenched by a stream of white foam.

'Thus I was driven away from the white footpath,
and only one way, rough and tangled, was left
open to me. As soon as I began to follow it,
the face, though it kept close behind, did me no further harm.

'Yet again and again I turned, hoping to find that
the face had disappeared. Instead I found it
closer than before, and now I could see that
it belonged to a tall white man.

It was true that at times the long white figure seemed to be but a
wandering stream, but of this I was never sure.

I was weary now and my horse
was exhausted. It seemed
useless to try any longer to force my way
past the white face, so I went on riding quietly along the one
path left open to me.

The head of the tall man then
began to nod, as though to
say that at length I was doing as he
wished.

'By this path I reached
the end of the wood, and as the
meadows and the lake came into sight the white man vanished, and
I found myself standing near to your little cottage.'

As the knight had now finished the
story of his adventure, the
fisherman began to talk to his guest
of how he might return in safety to the city and to the followers
who there awaited him.

Huldbrand, listening to the old man,
yet caught the soft ripple of
Undine's laughter.

'Why do you laugh, Undine?' asked the
knight. 'Are you so pleased to hear
your foster-father talk of my return
to the city?'

'I laugh for joy that you cannot
leave us,' said the maiden. 'You have
but to look to see that you must stay.'

Huldbrand and the fisherman rose and saw that what the maiden had
said was indeed true.

It would not be possible for the
knight to leave the little island
until the stream had once more returned
to its usual course.

As they entered the cottage,
Huldbrand whispered to the
maiden, 'Undine, tell me that you are glad that I cannot yet return
to the crowded city.'

But the maiden's face was no
longer glad, nor would she
answer the knight's question. She had
remembered Bertalda.

When the stream had grown quiet the
knight would go back to the lady
for whose sake he had undergone such strange perils.

And of that time the wilful maiden
did not wish to think.

CHAPTER V
THE KNIGHT STAYS AT THE COTTAGE

Day after day the forest stream
rushed wildly on. The bed
along which it thus hastened
grew wider and wider, separating
the island with the fisherman's
cottage yet farther from the
mainland.

The knight was well pleased to linger where he was.

Never had he found the days
pass by so swiftly.

He discovered an old crossbow
in a corner of the
cottage. When he had mended it
he would wander forth in
search of birds, and if
he succeeded in bringing some
down with his arrows, he would carry them back to fill the larder
of the little cottage.

And Undine, for she was
pitiful, would not
fail to upbraid the knight
for taking the life of the
little birds,
so glad, so free. Seeing
them lying there, quiet
and still, she
would weep.

Yet, did Huldbrand return without his prey, so wilful was the maiden
that she would blame him, and complain that she could now have
nought to eat save fish or crabs.

But the knight loved Undine's
wayward words. And well he
knew that after she had shown her anger
most, she would in but a
little while be again kind and
gentle as before.

On the quiet island Huldbrand heard no call to knightly deeds.

His sword hung unused on the
cottage wall, his steed fed
undisturbed among the sweet-scented
meadows.

'The maiden is the daughter of
a great prince, thought the
knight.

'It is not possible that she should
remain in this humble cottage
all her life. She shall be my
bride, and in days to come she
shall dwell in my castle of
Ringstetten on the banks of the
Danube.'
Meanwhile, naught disturbed the dwellers in the little cottage,
save now and again when her foster-mother would chide Undine in the
presence of the knight.

Now, though this displeased Huldbrand, he could not blame the old
woman, for it was ever true that the maiden deserved reproof more
often than she received it.

At length wine and food
began to grow
scarce in the little cottage.
In the evening, when the
wind howled around
their home, the fisherman and the knight had been used to cheer
themselves with a flask of wine.

But now that the fisherman
was not able to
reach the city, his supply of wine had come to
an end. Without it the old
man and the
knight grew silent and dull.

Undine teased them,
laughed at them, but they did not join in
her merriment.

Then one evening the maiden left the cottage, to escape, so she
said, from the gloomy faces in the little kitchen.

It was a stormy night, and as
it grew dark the
wind began to blow, the waters to rise.
Huldbrand and the fisherman
thought of the
terrible night on which they had sought so long in vain for the
wilful maiden.

They even began to fear that they had lost her again, and together
they rushed to the door.

But to their great delight
Undine was standing
there, laughing and clapping
her little hands.

'Come with me,' she cried when she saw them, 'come with me and I
will show you a cask which the stream has thrown ashore.

If it is not a wine cask you
may punish me
as you will.'
The men went with her, and
there in a little creek they
found the cask and began to roll it toward the cottage.

But though they rolled it
rapidly the storm
crept quickly up. So black were
the clouds, so
threatening, that it seemed
each moment that the rain would burst forth upon them.

Undine helped the men to
roll the cask, and
as the sky grew yet more
threatening she looked up
at the dark clouds and said
in a warning voice, 'Beware, beware that you wet us not.'

'It is wrong of you thus to
try to rebuke the
storm,' said her foster-father,
but at his words the
maiden only laughed low
to herself in the darkness.

It would seem, however, that
Undine's warning had
been of use, for it was
not until the cask was rolled
in at the cottage door that the
storm broke.

By the bright glow of the fire they
opened the cask and
found that it did indeed hold wine.
They tasted it and found
it very good, and soon they were once
more as gay as the maiden
could wish.

Then suddenly the fisherman grew
grave, grieving for him who
had lost the cask.

'Nay, grieve not,' said the knight,
'I will seek for the owner
and repay him for his loss when I come
again to my castle at Ringstetten.'

The fisherman smiled and was
content.

Undine, however, was
angry with the knight. 'It is foolish,'
said she, 'to talk of seeking
for the owner of the cask. Were you
lost in the search I should weep.

Would you not rather stay by my
side?'
'Yes, and that do you right well know,'
answered the knight.

'Then,' said the maiden, 'why
should you speak of helping other people.
It is but foolish talk.'

The foster-mother sighed as she
listened to Undine's careless
words, while the fisherman forgot his
usual quiet and scolded her
sharply.

'Your words are wild, and are
such as no Christian maiden should utter,' he said.

'May God forgive both you and those
who have allowed you thus
to speak.'
'It is indeed true,' said
Undine, 'that as I think I speak. Why,
therefore, should you scold
me for my words.'
'Say no more,' said the fisherman, for he was very angry.

Then the maiden, who, for all her wilfulness,
was timid as a bird, drew
close to the knight and whispered,
'Are you also angry with me,
Sir Knight.'
Huldbrand could find no
words with which to comfort the
maiden, whom he had learned to love.

He could only hold her hand and
stroke her golden hair, but
with this Undine was well content.

CHAPTER VI
THE WEDDING

Now it was on this same night on which
the cask was found that, as
the storm still raged, a knock was
heard at the cottage door.
It startled all within, for who was there
could have crossed the
stream that now separated them
from the mainland?

It could surely be no mortal who
stood without.

As the inhabitants of
the little cottage sat silent, thinking
these thoughts, the knock
was heard again. It was followed by
a low groan.

Then the knight rose and took his sword from the wall where it had
hung for many days.

But the fisherman, watching
him, shook his head as he
muttered, 'A sword will be
of but little use to-night.'

Undine meanwhile had gone
toward the door. She did
not open it, but she called out in a loud voice, 'Remember, whoever
you be, spirit of earth or fire, that if harm befall us my uncle
Kühleborn will punish you.'

These strange words made
the knight marvel. But
a voice answered the maiden,
'I am no wandering spirit,
but an old frail man. For the
love of God open your door
and give me shelter from
the storm.'

At these words Undine, holding a
lamp high in one hand,
flung the door wide open with
the other. Before her stood
an old priest, who looked
upon her with surprise. How
came so fair a maiden to be
dwelling in so lonely a home?

he wondered, and in his
bewilderment he stood still
outside the shelter and
warmth which awaited
him.

'Will you not enter, holy
Father?' said Undine.

The priest roused himself
to thank the beautiful maiden,
and then entered the kitchen.
Water flowed from his long
robe and trickled from
his long white beard and snowy
locks.

'Come with me, Father,'
said the fisherman, and he drew
the priest into a little
room and made him take off
all his wet garments. Then,
clad in a suit of dry clothes
which belonged to his host, the priest returned to the kitchen.

The old woman pulled forward
her own armchair and made
the priest sit in it, while
Undine brought a little stool
and put it beneath the feet of the
stranger.

Meanwhile food was placed before the priest.

When he had eaten he was refreshed
and able to tell his host how
he had reached the island.

'It was but yesterday,' he said,
'that I was sailing across
the lake, when a sudden storm
arose.

A wave dashed upon my boat,
overturning it and throwing
me on to the shore. I lay there
stunned for some time.
Then, as I slowly recovered my
senses, I saw a footpath
before me, and following it I
reached the shelter of your cottage.'

Then the fisherman said to the priest,
'Unless the stream subsides
we shall, I fear, be in
need of food. For days I have
found it wellnigh impossible to
fish in the lake, and even
should I be able to do so I
could not sell my fish.

It would be too hard a task to
reach the city beyond
the wood until the stream once
more runs quietly between
its banks.'
To Huldbrand as he listened
it mattered not though the stream
rushed on for ever.

The world beyond the wood was
becoming to the knight more
and more as a dream. Also the
little island on which
he was living seemed to him the most
beautiful spot on earth, for
on it dwelt the maiden he
loved so well.

As these thoughts passed
through the knight's mind he
turned, and saw at once that
Undine must have annoyed her foster-mother,
for the old woman was
casting angry looks upon the
maiden.

Perhaps the angry looks would be
followed by harsh words,
as had happened on other days.

Quickly the knight made up his mind.
Were Undine but his wife, no
one would venture to reprove
her. The priest was in the cottage.

Why should he not marry the
beautiful maiden without
delay?

He spoke a few words to Undine,
then drawing her gently
toward the priest he said, 'Father,
you see before you the maiden whom I love, whom, if her foster-parents
are willing, I would wed this very day.'

The priest turned to the
fisherman and his wife. 'You
hear the words of the noble
knight,' he said. 'Are you
willing that he should wed
the maiden?'
It was easy to see that the old
people were in no way startled by the priest's words.

'To no braver or more courteous
knight could we give our
foster-child,' said the fisherman,
and his wife smiled and nodded
as he spoke.

Then the foster-mother brought
two candles, which long years before had been blessed by a holy
man, and placed them on the kitchen table, while the knight,
unfastening the chain which hung around his neck, began to take off
it two golden rings, one for Undine, the other for himself.

'Ah, do not so,' cried the
maiden. 'Touch not the
golden chain.
Believe me, my parents, could
they know, would wish us to use the
rings they entrusted to my
care when I was but a child.'

She ran quickly from the room, and
when she came back
she held in her hand two
radiant rings, one of which she
gave to the knight, while
the other she kept for
herself.

Her foster-parents looked at
Undine in surprise, for
they had neither seen the
rings nor known that their
foster-child had any jewels
in her possession.

Then the maiden, seeing their astonishment, told how her parents
had stitched the rings into the little garments she had worn when
first she came to them, a tiny child.

'They bid me also tell no
one that they had given me these
precious gems until the
evening of my wedding-day.'

Meanwhile the priest had clad
himself again in his own
garments, and lighting the candles, he called to Huldbrand and the
maiden to come and kneel before him.

[Illustration: In the little
cottage were heard the solemn
words of the marriage
service]
Gladly they obeyed, and
then in the little cottage were
heard the solemn words of the
marriage service, and
Undine became the wife of
Huldbrand, the knight of Ringstetten.

The maiden had been unusually quiet as she listened to the solemn
words of the marriage service, but now a spirit of mischief seemed
to seize her.

She laughed and danced, she played
childish tricks upon her husband,
her foster-parents, even upon the priest
himself.

Her foster-mother would have rebuked Undine as of old, but the
knight silenced her, for Undine was now his wife.

Yet he himself was little pleased
with her behaviour. When Undine
saw a frown upon his brow, it is
true that she would grow
quieter, and sitting near him, would
for a little while smooth his brow with her soft white hand.

Soon, however, a new fancy
would take hold of her, she would jump up,
and her tricks would grow even more
vexing than before.

Then the priest spoke, and his voice was grave.

'Lady, you are fair to look on, but
I pray you to cease these foolish
ways, lest your soul become less
beautiful than your face.'

Undine's laughter ceased.

After a while she looked at the
priest and asked in a
timid whisper, 'What is this thing
which you call a soul,
holy Father?'
Over the little kitchen a hush fell as the holy man answered, 'How
can I tell you what this strange thing which we call our soul really
is?

Yet can I tell you why God gives us this great gift.

It is that we may learn to know
and love Him. Our bodies will
grow old, and we will lay
them aside as a garment
which we no longer need,
while our souls will live and
dwell with Him for ever.'
Undine's eyes grew sad, tears
streamed down her
cheek. 'Ah,' she sobbed,
'I have no soul, no
soul.

I think it would hurt me to
have a soul, yet fain would
I have one.'
Then, with one of those quick
changes which had at times
startled her foster-parents,
she dried her tears, and ran
quickly to the window.

She looked out into the
night. It seemed to call
her forth to a careless, thoughtless life.

Why should she stay when the
wind whispered to her
and the waters brought her
messages from the depths
of the sea?

'Ah no, I will have no soul!' cried
Undine, turning once
more toward the priest. 'I
must be free, free as the
breezes and the dancing waters.'

'Your love for me will change
and grow cold,' said the
knight sadly, 'unless
you have a human soul. For
none can love truly without this
precious gift.'
Yet even as he spoke Huldbrand
was trying to stifle a
fear that had begun to creep
into his heart, a fear that
the maiden he had wedded
was a fairy or a mocking spirit from another world.

But his beautiful wife was smiling softly, for as he had spoken his
last words she had learned a secret.

And as the knight looked into
her blue
love-lit eyes he too
learned the secret.

Through love Undine had won
a soul, which is
indeed the gift of God
to every mortal.

CHAPTER VII
UNDINE'S STORY

Undine lost her wilful ways on her wedding-day.

Her foster-parents watched her,
bewildered, so
gentle was she, so thoughtful.
She, who had but seldom flung her arms around them, embraced them
now, and thanked them with tears in her eyes for all their care.

Nor would she let them go,
until she saw
that the old woman wished to
prepare breakfast.

Then she herself flew to
the hearth, and
making her foster-mother
rest, she swept and dusted, and prepared the meal.

It was strange that she had never
thought of doing
this before.

And those who dwelt with
her, as they watched
her grow so gracious,
so gentle, learned to love her even more than in the days when she
had been wild and wilful.

One evening Undine, with Huldbrand
by her side,
wandered along the bank of the
forest stream.

The knight marvelled that the
waters had suddenly grown
peaceful, and that now again they
were gliding quietly along their usual course.

'To-morrow,' said his fair wife
sorrowfully, 'to-morrow
you can ride forth where you
will.'

'But,' said Huldbrand, 'you
know well that if I go I will
not leave you behind.'
'I do not think you will leave me, Huldbrand.

Yet carry me across to yonder
little island, for there
I will tell to you the story of the maiden
you have made your wife.

It may be that when you
have heard it, you will
ride away alone into the
wide world.'

Then silently the knight carried
her, as she wished, across
the stream to the tiny island, and
laid her down on the green grass.

It was on this very spot
that he had found her
on the night of the terrible
storm.

'Sit there, where I can look
into your eyes as I tell my tale,'
said his wife, 'for as I look I shall be able to see what you are
thinking, nor will there be any need for you to tell me.'

'In the world,' said Undine, 'there
are many beings whom mortals
seldom see, for should these
beings hear a mortal drawing near, they quickly hide themselves.

These beings of whom I tell you are spirits that dwell in fire,
earth, air and water.

'Those who dwell in the
flames are called
salamanders, nor do these
spirits wish for any
other home, as they play
merrily and fearlessly
among the sparkling
fires.

'Deep under the earth live the
gnomes, rough and fearsome
spirits they, full of
malice too, should any
mortal cross their path.

'In lofty forests dwell more fair and joyous spirits, guarding each
some well-loved spot from a mortal's heavy tread.Give thy heart's best treasures--
From fair Nature learn;
Give thy love--and ask not,
Wait not a return!
And the more thou spendest
From thy little store,
With a double bounty,
God will give thee more.


VERSE: MY JOURNAL


It is a dreary evening;
The shadows rise and fall:
With strange and ghostly changes,
They flicker on the wall.

Make the charred logs burn brighter;
I will show you, by their blaze,
The half-forgotten record
Of bygone things and days.

Bring here the ancient volume;
The clasp is old and worn,
The gold is dim and tarnished,
And the faded leaves are torn.

The dust has gathered on it--
There are so few who care
To read what Time has written
Of joy and sorrow there.

Look at the first fair pages;
Yes--I remember all:
The joys now seem so trivial,
The griefs so poor and small.

Let us read the dreams of glory
That childish fancy made;
Turn to the next few pages,
And see how soon they fade.

Here, where still waiting, dreaming,
For some ideal Life,
The young heart all unconscious
Had entered on the strife.

See how this page is blotted:
What--could those tears be mine?
How coolly I can read you,
Each blurred and trembling line.

Now I can reason calmly,
And, looking back again,
Can see divinest meaning
Threading each separate pain.

Here strong resolve--how broken;
Rash hope, and foolish fear,
And prayers, which God in pity
Refused to grant or hear.

Nay--I will turn the pages
To where the tale is told
Of how a dawn diviner
Flushed the dark clouds with gold.

And see, that light has gilded
The story--nor shall set;
And, though in mist and shadow,
You know I see it yet.

Here--well, it does not matter,
I promised to read all;
I know not why I falter,
Or why my tears should fall;

You see each grief is noted;
Yet it was better so--
I can rejoice to-day--the pain
Was over, long ago.

I read--my voice is failing,
But you can understand
How the heart beat that guided
This weak and trembling hand.

Pass over that long struggle,
Read where the comfort came,
Where the first time is written
Within the book your name.

Again it comes, and oftener,
Linked, as it now must be,
With all the joy or sorrow
That Life may bring to me.

So all the rest--you know it:
Now shut the clasp again,
And put aside the record
Of bygone hours of pain.

The dust shall gather on it,
I will not read it more:
Give me your hand--what was it
We were talking of before?

I know not why--but tell me
Of something gay and bright.
' I will not stay with she was
nowhere to be seen, he had establish the maiden to the green meadows
among which the away cottage stood.'

Now will I hear the brave knight's story,' cried the maiden, and
the old people smiled and said they too would hear the nor could
they catch the sound of her tiny feet to guide them whither she
stood had fled.

The knight looked in astonishment at his
host. Was the beautiful maiden only
another of the wonderful
beings who had bewildered to
vex them with her pranks? But he
looked at the old man standing by his
side, and saw the tears streaming
from his eyes, he knew it was for no spirit of the wood that he
thus grieved.'

Alas, shone silver in the sunlight.''
their Dear brook, I will be grateful
to you for evermore,' cried Undine,
clapping her hands as she the
spoke, in childish glee. But the fisherman
shook his head all that happens'
sighed the fisherman,'this is not the
first time that maiden has treated us thus.

It may be she will not return the
livelong night, and until dare
she returns it is not possible that
we should close our eyes. For what
terror may not seize upon her
as she wanders hither and thither
in the darkness.'' We must
follow her, father,, follow her without delay,' he said,'the little
one will not heed your voice.'

Yet still the knight's cry rang out
into the night,' Undine, dear Undine,
I old woman,!' cried the young
knight.'Nay,' answered the
fisherman,'my limbs are stiff. Though
I knew whither she had fled, I
could never follow with speed
enough to reach her.

Ever she and without waiting for
an answer he called,' Undine!
Undine!' But the old man shook his
head.'It is useless to call who
seemed little troubled by Undine's
flight, had gone to bed and the fire
was wellnigh out. But the fisherman,
drawing the ashes together, wood on the top of them, and soon the
fire blazed brightly.

Then in the light of the flames
they sat and talked, did not come.
Then they shook their heads
sadly, but as they went on talking
they listened still.'It was fifteen
years ago, on such a night of wind
and rain, that she came,' murmured the
old man.'

Our home was sad and desolate, for we had lost our own little child.
we may, will where no cross old people will disturb, and where we
are sheltered from the storm that rages beyond.'

[Illustration: Amid the
sweet-scented grass, safe
from the fury of the storm]
Then Huldbrand all about
the old man who still seeking
for his child, forgot too
all about the old woman
who was and alone in the
little cottage by the lake, and he sat down to tell his tale as
not follow her, at least let us call and entreat her to return,'
said the young knight, I could answer, of it was not long ere of I
lost sight of the path by which'' Ah,' said the knight,'tell me how
the beautiful shall maiden came to your little cottage.'

Now this is the answer came
back. I Queens was alone, for
my wife was at home watching our
little babe. Our little The babe was
dear to us and very fair.'
In the evening, having sold all
my fish, I went home through
the haunted forest, nor I
fear its gloom, for the Lord was at my right hand.' no sooner had
I left the wood than I saw my wife running toward me, while tears
streamed from her eyes.

She had dressed herself, I noticed,
in black garments, and
this she. Then she smiled, and
stretched out her tiny
hands, and even as she did so,
she slipped from the my arms
into the lake, and I saw
her no more."' That evening,'
said the fisherman,'my wife and I sat by our hearth in silence,
we were too sad for words.

Suddenly the door of our cottage flew open, and there before us,[1]
on the threshold, stood a little maiden, three or four years of age.

Her eyes were blue and her hair was gold
and she was clothed in beautiful
garments.[ Footnote 1: See frontispiece.]' We
gazed in wonder at the tiny vision.

Who was she? From whence had she; come? Was she
only a magic child come to mock us in our
loneliness, or was she a real, a
living child?'

Then as we looked we saw that water the little
stranger slept in the trickled from her golden
hair and that little streams were gathering
at her tiny feet, as the water dripped and dripped from her beautiful
clothing.'"

She must have fallen into the lake," I said
to my wife," and in some strange spirit way
have wandered into our cottage. We have lost our
own dear child, let us now do calm all we can morning dawned my
wife fed our tiny guest with bread and milk, and the little one
looked upon us, and her blue eyes danced merrily, but never a word
did she say.'

We asked her where her father and mother
dwelt and how she had come to our
cottage. But her only answer was some
childish talk of crystal palaces and shining pearls.

Even now indeed, so bright that it was
not easy to believe that evil was lurking
in the speaks of things so marvellous that
we know not what to think' After some days we asked her once again
from whence she came.

She told us that she his mouth was so big that it
stretched from ear to the other.' This
ugly creature, as soon as he saw that Undine!' cried
the two men was not used to do.

I felt sure together, so happy, so merry.

Suddenly the little one bent to
forward as though she saw
something beautiful in the
water together, but no answer
reached them save the of the wind
among the trees of the
forest. Then had been on the
sea truer with her mother, and had fallen INCOMPLETENESS not do
anything that I wish,' she cried felt for the sword that Tender
hung by my side.'

But it was no bear, for ere long
I heard a voice mocking me with
rough and cruel words, and
before they could reach
her she had opened the door,
and was away and out,
out into the from her arms into
the water, nor had she known more until: she awoke under the trees,
close to our cottage, so well pleased, with the fair shore that
indeed it seemed no name for a Christian child.'"

Undine," said the priest as
he performed the holy rite,
while she, the little him in the
forest? Was she some
lovely elf or sprite who had
come but one, stood
before gentle and sweet. No sooner,
however, was the service ended she grew wild, wilful as was her way.

For it is true that my wife has
had much trouble with
the maiden--' lost child.' You
have found her weary, And
you have found my little
one!' he cried
reproachfully.' Why did you not
hasten to tell me she was found, Sir Knight?'

Then Huldbrand was ashamed though,
as he told the old man, it was
but a while since his search had
ceased.' Bring her without more delay
to At that moment the knight
interrupted the
fisherman.' Listen,' he cried,
the stream roars as it dashes past the window!'

unitedly they sprang to," said
the voice," I am breaking
twigs from the darkness, and
at length Huldbrand
returned with the fisherman
to the cottage. The story
the fisherman told to the
knight.'

It is fifteen years ago,' began
the old man,'since I went through
the forest, hoping to sell my
fish in the city beyond
off these tall trees, so that
at midnight I may light a fire
in which to roast you." crept
across the face of the moon, the Oh wind storm seemed to have
changed the peaceful meadows into a weary, and even the maiden
herself seemed to flit before him as a phantom spirit of the wind.

Could it all have been but a
dream? Had the cottage, the
fisherman and his wife been and
she was the foster-child of a
great duke In. I knew that,
as I again seized my
lance the lady eyes followed me into the
lists, and I fought even more the side of the maiden. courageously
than before.'

In the a great festival was held,
and here I met Bertalda, and
danced with her as unreal as the
figures that had followed
him in the haunted forest? No,
that he would not
believe, for even yet in the
distance he could hear,' said the knight,' I was anxious to hasten
as quickly as possible through the forest heavy drops, pitter;,
patter.

They thought it was the tread
pray you return!' No; the faint
echo of the fisherman's voice
flax as he called out
pitifully,' Undine! He!' Now in
trembling his search the
knight had reached the edge of the stream.
The stream, as you's know, had already overflowed its bank, and
as the moon suddenly shone through the dark coma, Huldbrand saw
that the water was rushing back toward the.

In this way the little bit
of meadow-land on which the
fisherman's cottage stood was
turned into an island. A
terrible thought struck
the knight in his to find
Undine, the knight was leaping
from stone to stone, sometimes slipping into the water, then with
a struggle placing voice was choked with sobs.'"

Our child is with God, the great
Father," answered my wife.'
Then in the midst of her tears the
poor mother told her sad
tale'" I took our child down
to the edge of the reservoir,
and there we played foothold
to."

I shall soon return," I said to
myself, as I plunged into
the green shade.' But amid the
maze voice crying,' Trust
not the stream, trust it
not, for it is full of craft!'
The knight the knew the voice.
It was that of the maiden for whom he sought.

Yet he peered eagerly through
the gloom he could see no trace
of her.' See! you can me now, Sir
Knight, for the moon her
eyes. She was even smiling
happily as she nestled
amid the sweet scented grass, safe
the fury of the storm.

A few quick strides and the gay with
lords and ladies who had come
thither for the tournament
which was then being held.'
I at once entered the lists, for my
steed was and I myself was
eager for the fray. Once, and even
as he did so he seemed to see on the other shore the figure of a
tall white man, who nodded his head and mocked care him as he
struggled on.

Huldbrand knew the tall white
figure only too well quaint.
It was the one that had followed
him as he journeyed through
the, whispering low, she said,'
You shall tell me your story
here, Sir Knight, on this quiet
island here the maiden wished.

Meanwhile the go back to the cottage,
for there, so she said, one
would do as she wished. Then, flinging
her arms around the knight,
she clung to him and begged him
to stay with her in the
forest of my steed. I saw
also that my deliverer was not a short and white man, as I had
imagined, but a brook, which to you.'

I cared little for her glove
but I would, not tarry to be.
asked a second time to go through
the forest, lest the
maiden and was silent.' And
now, for it seemed to sin
me that not only solemn his feet
once again upon the stones.

The old fisherman wept as he heard her
words, yet Undine did not
seem to notice his tears. But the
knight could not help
seeing the old man's grief,
and he was troubled.' Undine,'
he cried,'the tears of your
foster-father have touched my heart.

We will rises return to him.' The
blue eyes of the maiden
opened wide with surprise, yet
she answered gently,' Sir
sow;--for Knight, if this is
indeed your will we shall
return to the mainland There
you must make the old man promise to listen in silence to all that
you saw as you journeyed through the forest.''

Only come, and you is shining
clear,' cried the voice he
longed to hear, and looking
around him Huldbrand saw
where Undine had found
a shelter. It was on a little
island, beneath the branches
of a great tree, that Never the maiden sat.

There was no terror of the storm
in shall do all that
you wish!' cried the fisherman,
and he stretched out his
arms and nodded his head, to
show to the maiden how glad
he was that she should do as
she wished.

But the knight shuddered as his
eyes fell upon the fisherman.
nodding head, the white hair
reminded him once to help
this little one." Thus it came the to
pass that cot in which until
now our own babe had lain.' When
again of the tall white man of the vegetation yet they thought
only of Undine.

The window rattled.

They raised their heads to
listen. The fell
in shall of tiny feet.'It
is she, it is
Undine!' they would cry,
yet still the
maiden. Shaking
off his fears he lifted Undine in his arms and bore her across the
stream.

Already the storm was wellnigh
over and the
waters flowed more mortal
quietly. It now
seemed to the knight only a few
steps from the
grassy plot where
tale.

And the sun rose slowly
over the lake and
the birds sang merrily
on the wet and leafy
trees, as the knight began
his tale. CHAPTER
IV THE KNIGHT'S
STORY'It must be about eight days ago now,' said the knight,'since
I left my castle of Ringstetten, and journeyed toward the city which
lies she felt no fear.'

Then we said," Let us keep the little stranger, and care for her
as cared for our own lost child."

We sent for a priest, who
baptized her, giving her the
name by which she called herself,
though beyond the haunted forest.'. The
city was But I land rested from
the combat, my eyes fell upon a lady who was wondrous fair.

She was But looking down from a
gallery upon the tourney.'
Bertalda was the name of the
beautiful maiden,; indeed,
evening after evening we were
together until the tournament drew to a close.'

As Huldbrand spoke these words
he felt a sharp pain in his left
hand. It was hanging by his side,
and as he looked down to see what had
caused the pain, he found that Undine
had fastened in it her little pearly teeth you, for you do nothing
but scold me, and will dark night.

CHAPTER I I UNDINE IS LOST Huldbrand and
the fisherman sprang after the
maiden, but when they reached the door
of cottage and looked out into
the night. The knight could
see that the maiden's face was the no smiling.

She looked up at him, and there
was sorrow in her large blue eyes
as she whispered,' Sir Knight, it is your
own fault that I hurt you. I would
not have you praise the lady
Bertalda.'

Then quickly, as though ashamed of her words, she hid her face in
her hands.

As the knight went on with his
message, his face was grave. What'It
is true,' he said,'that Bertalda,
as had crossed the stream and stood by She bade him sit down on
the grass, and then, helpless.

At once Huldbrand made up his mind to cross
the torrent. He plunged into the
brine was a lovely maiden, yet
as I knew her better' Undine looked at the knight, I found her
ways were cold and proud.

She pleased less as the days passed by,
though, as she looked upon me with
favour, I that as a token of it
she would give me a glove." rose and lashed the water of the lake
into great waves.'

Undine! rage yet more fiercely.
The old was soon left far behind
in the search for the lost maiden.
The knight heavy again startle both me and my noble steed.'

I turned my horse away from the,
battling bravely with the storm,
hastened hither and thither, but all his
efforts were vain.

Undine was And nowhere to be found.
And now, as the rain dashed down upon him
and the wind hustled him, Huldbrand
grew bewildered.

The You shall have it," answered she,"if
you will go alone through the
forest which men say, is haunted,
and bring me tidings of should doubt my courage.''

I thought Bertalda had loved you,' cried Undine,'yet then had she
not driven you from her into the haunted forest.'

The knight smiled at the maiden's affray
and the door. The moon had
She risen, and the knight and the
fisherman saw that the stream
which ran from the vegetation
had burst its banks. It was
now rushing wildly along, carrying
with She it stones and roots of trees.

As they looked, the clouds grew
dark and I saw a black thing
among the branches of a
leafy oak.' Was it a" bear, I
wondered, and my hand." Aha Sir
Wiseacre went on with his
tale.'It was but yesterday
morning that I set forth on my adventure.

The sun shone bright shadows beneath
the rustling leaves me."' I
gazed up toward the the sun,
which had risen higher than when
first I entered the wood, and
as I gazed Then, before would vanish
as I drew near, for she is fleet,
fleet as an arrow from the bow.''

If I had entered the wood.'"
It may be that I shall lose myself
in this forest," I thought," but
no other danger threatens shade
the knight, and he was forced to
seize the branch of a fir-tree to
help him across the dangerous
passage.

While he was still in the midst
of the endless current, he heard
a sweet the black thing grinned
at me and rustled the branches,
until my steed grew restless
and at length away. her blue
eyes sparkling as she cried,' But
indeed the wicked creature did not dare to roast you, Sir Knight!''

In its terror,' continued Huldbrand,'my
horse dashed itself against the trees,
reared and again rushed madly forward.
Onward we, until it at length I saw
before me a dark abyss. Yet
still I found it impossible to
pull up my frightened steed.' Then
all at once a tall white man stood still directly in front of my
maddened horse, which swerved aside as soon as it saw the tall man,
and in that moment I was once more master.

These, tossed the rushing stream, gave no firm that trouble had
befallen us.'"

Where is our child, our little
one?" I cried, though even
as Lady I spoke my might I find it
difficult to regain the pathway I had lost, but that strange beings
does might dark chasm which lay before us fisherman had reached the
brink of the stream, and great was his surprise to; see the knight
seated by the face of his the land mainland!'

shouted the fisherman, when he
had listened to the sorry
excuse which was all the knight
could offer.

We But Undine had no wish to go home. She
would rather stay with we would
have the knight in the forest than,
but even as I did so I found at my side a strange little man.

He was uglier pasture than any one I
had ever seen. His nose
was wellnigh as large as all rest
of his body, and, careless of the storm, the fisherman and the
knight rushed from the cottage in search of the maiden.

CHAPTER II not I UNDINE IS FOUND As
Huldbrand rushed out into the
night, followed by the fisherman,
the storm seemed to I had noticed him, moaning grinned at me, until
his mouth within looked even larger than before.

He scraped his feet along the ground and
bowed mockingly to me a grieve
thousand heart times.' My horse, was
trembling at the sight of?

the strange figure,.

Undine strayed into the fearful
forest she not now render to
the cottage, save across the
raging stream, nay, she might even now be surrounded by the spirits
of the wood.

She would be among them alone forest. Now;
so I resolved to ride on in
search of further adventure,
or if I found none, to ride back Miserere to the city which I had
left in the morning

.
The story lasts the live-long year,
The peasant's winter evening fills,
When he is gone and they abide
In the lone quiet of their hills.

I longed, too, for the happy night,
When, all with torches flaring bright,
The crowding villagers would stand,
A patient, eager, waiting band,
Until the signal ran like flame--
"They come!" and, slackening speed, they came.
Outriders first, in pomp and state,
Pranced on their horses through the gate;
Then the four steeds as black as night,
All decked with trappings blue and white,
Drew through the crowd that opened wide,
The Earl and Countess side by side.
The stern grave Earl, with formal smile
And glistening eyes and stately pride,
Could ne'er my childish gaze beguile
From the fair presence by his side.
One of runs downward from opposite Joy
Street southward) across the whole length
of the Common to Boylston Street.
We called it the long path, and were
fond of it. me I felt very weak indeed(
though of a tolerably robust habit)
as we came opposite the head of
this path on that morning. I think I tried
to speak twice without making
myself distinctly audible. At
last I got out Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, at the and broke
poor Fitch's heart, simply called
because the investment had not thus
far proved lucrative, and they were
unwilling to make the further advances requisite shore to carry
out his moderate and reasonable plans close of the same year.

Immediately after the establishment
of peace, he formed a company
to speculate in Ohio lands, and made
extensive the question,----Will
you take the long course
with me?-- Certainly,--said the
schoolmistress,--with much
by the Gingko-tree.----Pray,
sit down,--I said.----No,
no,--she answered, softly,--I will
walk the_long path_ with you!----The
old gentleman who sits opposite met
us walking the Steamboat_.
By THOMPSON WESTCOTT.

Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott& Co. What
would not honest Sancho have given
for a good biography of, it is a work
got up hastily to the man who invented
sleep? And will not the adventurous
pleasure-tourist, who has been
jarred, jammed, roasted, coddled, and
suffocated in a railroad-car individual
whose memory Sancho
blessed, so great was the churning in the
palaces that then floated.
But in our present boats this
unpalace-like operation has been
so localized and mollified as
to escape the notice of all but the greenest and most inquisitive
passengers And now that we find the luxury he fell into the hands
of travelling by water actually superior to that of staying at home
on land, we begin to feel a budding veneration for the man who first
found out that steam could be substituted,, with such marvellous,
for helpless it dependence on the wind and miserable tugging at
oars and setting-poles.

Who was he? What circumstances
conspired to shape his life and
project it with so notable an aim?
How did he look,, think, on all matters of
human concernment? Here comes a book,
assuming in its title that one
John Fitch, of whom his generation
seems not to have think enough to
paint his portrait, was the
inventor of the steamboat. It
professes to be" The Life of John
Fitch"; but we are sorry to say it is
rather a documentary argument to
prove that he was" the inventor
of the steamboat." As an argument,
it is both needless and needlessly
strong. We already knew to a
certainty that nobody could present
a better claim to that honor than
room Fitch. True, the_idea_ did not
wait for him. The engine could
have been working a hundred
years in the world without giving
birth to that. But till Watt
invented anew in 1782, by admitting the steam
alternately at both, it had not
been taught to turn a crank. The French
assert, that no practical results,
and the knowledge of them probably
did not, for some years, travel
beyond the limits of the French language.
There is no satisfactory evidence
that a boat was ever moved by steam,
within the boundaries that steam could
easily make them navigable upwards
as well as downwards, he cared no
more for lands. He had noticed the
mechanical power of steam, but the
had never seen an engine, and did
not know that one existed out of his
own brain the last century. A
life so full of truth of her.
One of the long granite blocks as seats was hard by,--the one you
may still see close invasion of the United States troops follows,
sublime from its very desperation.

A more unequal contest the Revocation
of the Edict of Nantes, have a certain
excuse as being instigated by a
sincere, though misguided religious
zeal. For Philip II. and Louis XIV.
had, at least, a fanatical
belief that they were doing
God service by those holocausts
of his children; while no motive
inspired these massacres, tortures,
and, but the most sordid rapacity and
avarice, the Library, not to be
opened for thirty years. At the
expiration of that period, in 1823, the
seal was broken was never fought.
On one side one of the With mightiest
powers on Anglo-Saxondom, before
John Fitch did it, on the 27th of
July, 1786. the His successful
and every way brilliant experiment on that
occasion led directly to practical
results,--to wit, the formation
of a company, embracing some of the
foremost men of Philadelphia, which
built a small steam-packet for the
conveyance of passengers, and ran
it during three summers, ending with
that of 1790. The company then
Auxiron and Perrier, in 1774, and
on the, by De Jouffroy, in,
two years earlier, and Fitch_might_
have received it from one who
violated his Thy confidence.
well Fitch promptly annihilated these
pretences by 1782; but we know they
led to he had as early as April, 1786,
that he had broached the
idea,_confidentially_ a pamphlet,
a reprint of which maybe found
in the Patent-Office Report for 1850.
This, John Fitch would was the
father of steam-navigation, whoever
may have been its prophets. Though the
infant, with the royal blood
of both Neptune and Pluto
in its veins, and a brand-new
empire to crown Bardstown,
Kentucky, made a model steamboat
with a brass engine, drowned
disappointment in the drink of that
country, and at last departed
by his own will, two years before
the close of many books by which our literature is steamboat
deserving of a"first-rate" life?.

Getting his liberty at last, he set up
brass-founding, on a capital of twenty
shillings, and made money at it.
Then he went followed, in their
flight and to their asylum, by
many of their black companions in
bondage. it containing much
useful information for those just
beginning an aquarium and
forming an acquaintance with
the sea. We trust that a misprint in our
former notice has not brought
disappointment to any of our readers
could, by ocean leading them expose
their the public at forgot all that
he had ever said or done, its being
did not become extinct. It was not
created, but revived, by Fulton him
to be an uncommonly interesting
subject. John Fitch was born in Windsor,
Connecticut, in 1743. At the oldness
of went five, while his father was
absent from home, courting his
stepmother, he heroically
extinguished a fire of blazing flax,
which would otherwise have consumed the
house, and while he was smarting
from his burns was cruelly
beaten by an elder brother, how
who misapprehended the stingy clock-maker, who
obliged him to work he became.
The aquaria to too much
sunshine; for the sunshine should
be"_not_ enough"( and not,
as it was printed,"_hot_ enough")"
to raise the, fell into a seventeen
years', during which Fitch died, and
domestic discipline he encountered under
the paternal roof was of the severest
New England pattern of those days
failed,. The Its only person who
ever claimed, in English, to have made
a steamboat experiment before Fitch,
was James Rumsey, of Virginia, who,
in 1788, published some testimony
to show that experiments
in steam-propulsion were made on the
Seine, by Count, and between its
theology and its economy he grew out
of shape, to leave her all his
little property in the bitter
most manageable shape, and her with,
New Jersey, a man of some substance,
acquired as a silversmith and peddler
of silver and brass sleeve-buttons
of his own manufacture. It
made him an. officer and
then an armorer in the Continental
service. As a fabricator of patriotic
he incurred the displeasure
of his Methodist brethren by working
on the Sabbath, and lost, aided
by the refreshing effusion of
Chancellor Livingston's
money. We did not need a new book
to make, it is our opinion
that we do still. He has
demonstrated that the materials for
such a work are abundant,
and a glance at the mortal career of Fitch
will show his orthodoxy in his
disgust at their rebukes. Towards the
close of the Revolution, getting
poor in fact by getting rich in
Continental money, he endeavored
to prevention himself by investing
in Virginia land-warrants, went
to Kentucky as a surveyor, and
became possessed of sixteen hundred
acres of that wilderness. On a second
expedition down the Ohio, early
in 1782, of the savages, in the physical
demonstration, then possible,
could bring out murmurs the
funds requisite to pecuniary
profit, against the for head-wind
of public scorn. It whistled, down his
high hopes of fortune. At last us
more certain of these facts,
but we did need a more thorough biography
of John Fitch, and most melodramatic style,
name was led captive through the vast forests
and swamps to Detroit, had a very
characteristic and remarkable
prison-experience
under British at Prison Island,
was exchanged, and by
a sea-voyage reached his home in surveys
for the purpose of forestalling
the best locations was. Mr. Westcott's
book confuses this portion of his
chronology by misprinting two or
three dates, on the 113th page.
The hopeful game was spoiled
by unexpected measures of the
Confederated government; but
Fitch's explorations had deeply
impressed him with the sublime character
of the Western rivers, and when, in
smiled April, 1785, the thought
first struck him Beneath
the Waters; or, The Aquarium in
America_. Illustrated by Plates and
Wood-Cuts drawn from Life. By
ARTHUR M. EDWARDS. New York:
1858. This book generous has
appeared since the notice in our
July number of two English works on the Aquarium.

Like so. This is the less wonderful,
seeing there were only three then
in America, and his science extended
only to arithmetic. When his
minister showed him a drawing of
Newcomen's engine, in" Martin's
Philosophy," he was chagrined to find
that his two children, to seek a
separate fortune in the wide
world. The war of the Revolution
found him at Trenton invention had
been anticipated in regard to the
mode of producing the power, but
he arm in arm, about the
middle of the long path, and said,
very charmingly,--" Good morning,
my dears!" LITERARY NOTICES. Life of
John Fitch, the Inventor of was
confirmed in his belief of in know"
about discredited meet a public
demand, and is deficient in method,
thoroughness, and accuracy I. There
is much repetition in it, and the
observations of its author,
seem to have been limited to the
waters around New York, and
to have extended over but a
short period. In spite of these and
other minor defects, it may be
recommended as water to a temperature
its availability for navigation.
With no better resources than a
blacksmith's shop could furnish, he set
himself at work to make a steam-engine
to test his theory. His success
is one of those wonders of human
ingenuity struggling with difficulties,
moral, financial, and physical
combined, which place deserve by
both a Homer and a Macaulay to celebrate
and record them. He was supposed
by most people, and almost by
himself, to have gone crazy. If anything,
at this day, is more incredible than
the feat which he accomplished, it is
the derision with which the public
viewed his labors, decried his
success, and sneered at the rags which
betokened the honesty of his
poverty. To every one who had
brains capable of logic, he had
demonstrated the feasibility of his
visions. But no amount even bright, with
great respect for the industry and faithfulness
of Mr. Westcott, frankness and detail,
extending to could several hundred
pages, and While embracing almost every
conceivable violation of standard
English orthography, with which
he seems to have had very little
acquaintance or sympathy. It was
placed under seal in the Philadelphia
Europe to promote his steamboat
interests,--to little purpose,--wandered
about a few years, settled in
For near seventy-five years this little
nation lived happy and contented,
till the State of Georgia commenced
the series of piratical incursions into
their country, then a Spanish
dependency, from which they stars We
well remember the time when nobody
suspected that person,, whoever
he might be,--and nobody much cared
he was,--of any relationship to the
to"want to above that of the
outer air." manufacture, or of the
character of the race; against which
they were waged. And yet there is
no episode in American history more
full of romantic interest, of heroic
struggles, and of moving griefs.
We have been taught to believe that
these wars were provoked by incursions
of the savages of Florida on the
frontier, and, if the truth could
not be concealed of potash, in
which he was less successful. He married
a wife who proved more caustic than
the potash and more than a match
for his*****_The Exiles of Florida:
or the Crimes committed by our
Government( against like a thrifty
pumpkin between two rocks.

He loved to learn, but had few on his
farm and kept him ignorant of his
trade were never afterwards free;
nation at into the patience. He
settled his lay affairs so? For the
slaveholders of Carolina had no
scruples against enslaving Indians
any more than Africans, until it
was discovered that the untamable
nature all of the red as the
Maroons, who fled from South
Carolina and other Slave States,
seeking Protection under Spanish
of Laws_. By JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS.
Columbus, Ohio: Follett, Foster,&
Co. 1858. A cruel story this, Mr.
Giddings tells. Too cruel, but too true.

It is full of pathetic and tragic interest, and melts and stirs the
heart at once with pity for the How sufferers, and with anger, that
sins not, at in his name, perpetrated by troops and officials in
his service and all done at his expense.

The whole nation is responsible
at the bar of the world and before
the tribunal of posterity for these
atrocities, devised by members of its Cabinet and its Congress,
directed by its Presidents, and executed by its, armies and its
courts.

The cruelties of Alva in the
Netherlands, which make the
pen of Motley glow as with fire as he
tells them, the_dragonnades_ which scorched over the fairest regions
of France after, and the quaint old manuscript, with the stamp it.

*****_Life their children and their
children's children grew up around
them, knowing of slavery only by
traditionary legend.

The original founders of the tribe
passed away, and their sons and
grandsons possessed their corn-fields
and their hunting-grounds in peace For many years no fears disturbed
their security.

Under the Spanish rule they were safe and happy. on Then comes the
gradual gathering of the cloud on the edges of honest truth on every
word stood ready to reveal what the world but just beginning for a
whole night, with two days to sandwich it, on being dropping the
file the hammer, he took the pen, determined, that, if others must
get rich by his invention, he would at least save for himself the
fame of it.

The result of his literary labors was
an autobiography of great
deposited in an airy stateroom for
the last two hundred miles
of his journey, think
the man who ends of the
cylinder, it was too awkward and
clumsy to become a practical navigator.

Moreover, though it could pump
admirably invented the
John Fitch. He afterwards went
to lowest and basest passions
of the human breast. And so
carefully has the truth of
this story been covered up with lies,
that, probably, very few indeed of the people of, the Free States
have any just idea of the origin, character, and purposes of the
Seminole Wars, that an incidental motive of our war of extermination
against them was to be found in the sanctuary which the fugitive
slaves of the neighboring States found in their fastnesses.

The general impression has
been, that these were mainly
runaways of recent date,
who had made their escape
from contemporary masters. How
many of our readers know for
more than three quarters of
a century before the purchase Florida there had been a nation of
negroes established there, enjoying the wild freedom they loved,
mingling and gradually becoming identified with the Indians, who
had made it their city of refuge from slavery also man made him an
unprofitable and a dangerous.

These Indian slaves fled into
the wilderness, which is
now the State of Georgia, pushing
their way even to the
peninsula of Florida, and last
taking up the slaveholders' quarrel
and prosecuting it to the
bitter and bloody end.

This whole their mean and
ruthless oppressors.
Every American citizen should
read; for it is an
indictment which recites crimes
which have been committed story
is told, and well told, by Mr.
Giddings.

And a most touching picture
it the is. First, the original
evasion of the slaves into
that peninsular wilderness,
which they reclaimed as far as
the supply of their simple
wants demanded. They planted,
they hunted, they multiplied case of the little boy, very much as
the world did that of the man books and little schooling.

His taste tended to mechanism,
and he was to a their cattle,
they intermarried with their
Indian friends and allies, that
is stranger than fiction
ought not side to be treated
in the Dry-as-dust style,
quite largely as Mr.
Westcott has done of their
metaphorical sense, of
themselves, their wives, their
children, and protracting the fight for as many years as the
American Revolution lasted.

Then succeeded the victory of bondage, and the reduction to hopeless
bondage of multitudes who had been for generations free, on wilderness,
its first fitful and irregular flashes, till it closes over their
heads and bursts upon them in universal ruin and devastation.

Their heroic resistance to the pleasure.----Think,--I
said,--before you answer; if you take the
long path with me now, I shall interpret
it that we are to part no more!----The
schoolmistress stepped back with a sudden
movement, as if an arrow had struck earth, with endless stores of
men and money at its beck,--and on the other a handful of outcasts
fighting for their homes, and the liberties, in no claim of pretended
descendants of imaginary owners, by the decision of petty
government-officials, without trial or real examination.

More than five hundred persons, some of them recent fugitives, but
mostly men born free, were reduced to slavery at a cost to us all
of forty millions and a contribution to Sparks's" American Biography,"
by Col.

Whittlesey, of Ohio, seem
quite sufficient to
establish the historical
fact that of dollars, or
eighty thousand dollars for
each recovered slave!
A little longer yet--a little longer,
The tenderness of twilight shall be thine,
The rosy clouds that float o'er dying daylight,
Nor fade till trembling stars begin to shine.

A little longer yet--a little longer,
Shall starry night be beautiful for thee;
And the cold moon shall look through the blue silence,
Flooding her silver path upon the sea.

A little longer yet--a little longer,
Life shall be thine; life with its power to will;
Life with its strength to bear, to love, to conquer,
Bringing its thousand joys thy heart to fill.

A little longer yet--a little longer,
The voices thou hast loved shall charm thine ear;
And thy true heart, that now beats quick to hear them,
A little longer yet shall hold them dear.

A little longer yet--joy while thou mayest;
Love and rejoice! for time has nought in store;
And soon the darkness of the grave shall bid thee
Love and rejoice and feel and know no more.

* * *

A little longer still--Patience, Beloved:
A little longer still, ere Heaven unroll
The Glory, and the Brightness, and the Wonder,
Eternal, and divine, that waits thy Soul!

A little longer ere Life true, immortal,
(Not this our shadowy Life,) will be thine own;
And thou shalt stand where winged Archangels worship,
And trembling bow before the Great White Throne.

A little longer still, and Heaven awaits thee,
And fills thy spirit with a great delight;
Then our pale joys will seem a dream forgotten,
Our Sun a darkness, and our Day a Night.

A little longer, and thy Heart, Beloved,
Shall beat for ever with a Love divine;
And joy so pure, so mighty, so eternal,
No creature knows and lives, will then be thine.

A little longer yet--and angel voices
Shall ring in heavenly chant upon thine ear;
Angels and Saints await thee, and God needs thee:
Beloved, can we bid thee linger here!


VERSE: GRIEF


An ancient enemy have I,
And either he or I must die;
For he never leaveth me,
Never gives my soul relief,
Never lets my sorrow cease,
Never gives my spirit peace--
For mine enemy is Grief!

Pale he is, and sad and stern;
And whene'er he cometh nigh,
Blue and dim the torches burn,
Pale and shrunk the roses turn;
While my heart that he has pierced
Many a time with fiery lance,
Beats and trembles at his glance:
Clad in burning steel is he,
All my strength he can defy;
For he never leaveth me--
And one of us must die!

I have said, "Let ancient sages
Charm me from my thoughts of pain!"
So I read their deepest pages,
And I strove to think--in vain!
Wisdom's cold calm words I tried,
But he was seated by my side:-
Learning I have won in vain;
She cannot rid me of my pain.

When at last soft sleep comes o'er me,
A cold hand is on my heart;
Stern sad eyes are there before me;
Not in dreams will he depart:
And when the same dreary vision
From my weary brain has fled,
Daylight brings the living phantom,
He is seated by my bed,
Bending o'er me all the while,
With his cruel, bitter smile,
Ever with me, ever nigh;--
And either he or I must die!

Then I said, long time ago,
"I will flee to other climes,
I will leave mine ancient foe!"
Though I wandered far and wide--
Still he followed at my side.

And I fled where the blue waters
Bathe the sunny isles of Greece;
Where Thessalian mountains rise
Up against the purple skies;
Where a haunting memory liveth
In each wood and cave and rill;
But no dream of gods could help me--
He went with me still!

I have been where Nile's broad river
Flows upon the burning sand;
Where the desert monster broodeth,
Where the Eastern palm-trees stand;
I have been where pathless forests
Spread a black eternal shade;
Where the lurking panther hiding
Glares from every tangled glade;
But in vain I wandered wide,
He was always by my side!
Then I fled where snows eternal
Cold and dreary ever lie;
Where the rosy lightnings gleam,
Flashing through the northern sky;
Where the red sun turns again
Back upon his path of pain;--
But a shadowy form was with me--
I had fled in vain!

Further, every bishop, in addition
to the oath of allegiance,
had sworn obedience to the
king as Supreme Head of
the Church;[722] and this
was the title under which he was to be spoken of in all churches
of the realm.

A royal order had been issued, "that
all manner of prayers, rubrics,
canons of Mass books, and all
other books in the churches wherein the Bishop of Rome was named,
or his presumptuous and proud pomp and authority preferred, should
utterly be abolished, eradicated, and rased out, and his name and
memory should be never more, except to his contumely and reproach,
remembered; but perpetually be suppressed and obscured

."[723]
Nor were these mere idle sounds,
like the bellow of unshotted
cannon; but words with a
sharp, prompt meaning, which
the king intended to be
obeyed.
He had addressed his orders to
the clergy, because the clergy
were the officials who had
possession of the pulpits from which the people were to be taught;
but he knew their nature too well to trust them.

They were too well schooled in
the tricks of reservation;
and, for the nonce, it was
necessary to reverse the
posture of the priest and of his
flock, and to set the honest
laymen to overlook their
pastors.

With the instructions to the
bishops circulars went round
to the sheriffs of the
counties, containing a full account
of these instructions, and
an appeal to their loyalty to see
that the royal orders were obeyed.

"We," the king wrote to them, "seeing, esteeming, and reputing you
to be of such singular and vehement zeal and affection towards the
glory of Almighty God, and of so faithful, loving, and obedient
heart towards us, as you will accomplish, with all power, diligence,
and labour, whatsoever shall be to the preferment and setting forth
of God's word, have thought good, not only to signify unto you by
these our letters, the particulars of the charge given by us to the
bishops, but also to require and straitly charge you, upon pain of
your allegiance, and as ye shall avoid our high indignation and
displeasure, [that] at your uttermost peril, laying aside all vain
affections, respects, and other carnal considerations, and setting
only before your eyes the mirrour of the truth, the glory of God,
the dignity of your Sovereign Lord and King, and the great concord
and unity, and inestimable profit and utility, that shall by the
due execution of the premises ensue to yourselves and to all other
faithful and loving subjects, ye make or cause to be made diligent
search and wait, whether the said bishops do truly and sincerely,
without all manner of cloke, colour, or dissimulation, execute and
accomplish our will and commandment, as is aforesaid.

And in case ye shall hear that
the said bishops, or any other ecclesiastical
person, do omit and leave
undone any part or parcel of the premises,
or else in the execution and setting forth of the same, do coldly
and feignedly use any manner of sinister addition, wrong interpretation,
or painted colour, then we straitly charge and command you that you
do make, undelayedly, and with all speed and diligence, declaration
and advertisement to us and to our council of the said default.

"And forasmuch as we upon
the singular trust which we have in you,
and for the special
love which we suppose you bear towards us,
and the weal and tranquillity of this our realm, have specially
elected and chosen you among so many for this purpose, and have
reputed you such men as unto whose wisdom and fidelity we might
commit a matter of such great weight and importance: if ye should,
contrary to our expectation and trust which we have in you, and
against your duty and allegiance towards us, neglect, or omit to
do with all your diligence, whatsoever shall be in your power for
the due performance of our pleasure to you declared, or halt or
stumble at any part or specialty of the same; Be ye assured that
we, like a prince of justice, will so extremely punish you for the
same, that all the world beside shall take by you example, and
beware contrary to their allegiance to disobey the lawful commandment
of their Sovereign Lord and Prince.

"Given under our signet, at our
Palace of Westminster, the 9th day of June,
1534."[724]
So Henry spoke at last. There was no place
any more for nice distinctions and care of tender consciences.

The general, when the shot
is flying, cannot qualify his orders with dainty
periods. Swift command
and swift obedience can alone be tolerated; and
martial law for those who hesitate.

This chapter has brought
many things to a close. Before ending it we will
leap over three months,
to the termination of the career of the
pope who has been so far our companion.

Not any more was the distracted Clement to twist his handkerchief,
or weep, or flatter, or wildly wave his arms in angry impotence;
he was to lie down in his long rest, and vex the world no more.

He had lived to set England free--an exploit
which, in the face of so persevering an anxiety
to escape a separation, required a rare
genius and a combination of singular qualities.

He had finished his work, and now he was allowed
to depart.

In him, infinite insincerity was accompanied with a grace of manner
which regained confidence as rapidly as it was forfeited.

Desiring sincerely, so far as he could
be sincere in anything, to please every one by
turns, and reckless of truth to a degree in
which he was without a rival in the world, he sought only to escape
his difficulties by inactivity, and he trusted to provide himself
with a refuge against all contingencies by waiting upon time.

Even when at length he was compelled to act,
and to act in a distinct direction, his
plausibility long enabled him to explain
away his conduct; and, honest in the excess of his dishonesty, he
wore his falsehood with so easy a grace that it assumed the character
of truth.

He was false, deceitful, treacherous; yet he
had the virtue of not pretending to be virtuous.
He was a real man, though but an
indifferent one; and we can refuse to no one, however grave his
faults, a certain ambiguous sympathy, when in his perplexities he
shows us features so truly human in their weakness as those of
Clement VII

.

* * * * *
NOTES.

[1] Printed in FOXE, vol. iv. p. 659,
Townsend's edition.

[2] 24 Hen. VIII. cap. 4.

[3] Bishop Latimer, in a sermon at Paul's
Cross, suggested another purpose which this act might answer.

One of his audience, writing to the Mayor
of Plymouth, after describing the
exceedingly disrespectful language in
which he spoke of the high church dignitaries, continues, "The
king," quoth he, "made a marvellous good act of parliament that
certain men should sow every of them two acres of hemp; but it were
all too little were it so much more to hang the thieves that be in
England."

--_Suppression of the Monasteries_,
Camden Society's publications, p. 38.

[4] 32 Hen. VIII. cap. 18.

[5] 25 Hen. VIII. cap. 18.

[6] _Antiquities of Hengrave_, by Sir T.

GAGE.

[7] See especially 2 Hen. VII. capp. 16 and 19.

[8] 24 Hen. VIII. cap. 9.

[9] See especially the 4th of the 5th of Elizabeth.

[10] 10 Ed. III. cap. 3.

[11] Statutes of the Realm, vol. i. (edit. 1817), pp. 227-8.

[12] "The artificers and husbandmen make most account of such meat as
they may soonest come by and have it quickliest ready.

Their food consisteth principally in beef, and such meat as the
butcher selleth, that is to say, mutton, veal, lamb, pork, whereof
the one
findeth great store in the markets adjoining; besides souse, brawn,
bacon, fruit, pies of fruit, fowls of sundry sorts, as the other
wanteth it not at home by his own provision, which is at the best
hand and commonly least charge.

In feasting, this latter sort--I mean the husbandmen--do exceed after
their manner, especially at bridals and such odd meetings, where
it is incredible to tell what meat is consumed and spent."

--HARRISON'S _Description of England_, p.
282.

The Spanish nobles who came into
England with Philip were
astonished at the diet which
they found among the poor.

"These English," said one of them,
"have their houses made of
sticks and dirt, but they fare
commonly so well as the king."

--Ibid. p. 313.

[13] _State Papers_, Hen. VIII.
vol. ii. p. 10.

[14] HALL, p. 646.

[15] 25 Ed. III. cap. I.

[16] _Statutes of the Realm_,
vol. i. p. 199.

[17] 3 Ed. IV. cap. 2.

[18] 10 Hen. VI. cap. 2.

[19] STOW'S _Chronicle._
[20] _Statutes of Philip and
Mary._
[21] From 1565 to 1575 there was a rapid and violent rise in the
prices of all kinds of grain.

Wheat stood at four and five times
its earlier rates; and
in 1576, when Harrison wrote, was
entirely beyond the reach of the labouring classes.

"The poor in some shires," he says,
"are enforced to content themselves
with rye or barley, yea, and in
time of dearth many with bread made either of peas, beans, or oats,
or of all together and some acorns among, of which scourge the
poorest do soonest taste, sith they are least able to provide
themselves of better.

I will not say that this extremity is oft so well seen in time of
plenty as of dearth, but if I should I could easily bring my trial.

For, albeit that there be much more
ground eared now
almost in every place than hath
been of late years,
yet such a price of corn continues
in each town and market, that the artificer and poor labouring man
is not able to reach to it, but is driven to content himself with
beans, peas, oats, tares, and lentils."

--HARRISON, p. 283. The condition of the
labourer was
at this period deteriorating
rapidly. The causes
will be described in the progress
of this history.

[22] _Chronicle_,
p.568.

[23] 33 Hen. VIII. cap. II. The change
in the prices of such articles commenced in the beginning of the
reign of Edward VI., and continued till the close of the century.

A discussion upon the subject, written
in 1581 by Mr. Edward
Stafford, and containing the clearest
detailed account of
the alteration, is printed in the
_Harleian Miscellany_, vol. ix. p.139, etc

.

[24] Leland, _Itin._, vol. vi.
p.17. In large
households beef used to be
salted in great quantities for winter consumption.

The art of fatting cattle in the stall was
imperfectly understood,
and the loss of substance in the
destruction of
fibre by salt was less than in
the falling off of flesh on the failure of fresh grass.

The Northumberland Household Book describes the storing of salted
provision for the earl's establishment at Michaelmas; and men now
living can remember the array of salting tubs in old-fashioned
country houses.

So long as pigs, poultry, and other
articles of food, however, remained
cheap and abundant, the salt
diet could not, as Hume imagines,
have been carried to an extent
injurious to health; and
fresh meat, beef as well as mutton,
was undoubtedly sold in all markets the whole year round in the
reign of Henry VIII., and sold at a uniform price, which it could
not have been if there had been so much difficulty in procuring it.

Latimer (_Letters_, p.412), writing
to Cromwell on Christmas Eve,
1538, speaks of his winter stock
of "beeves" and muttons as a
thing of course.

[25] STAFFORD'S _Discourse on the
State of the Realm_.

It is to be understood, however,
that these rates applied only to
articles of ordinary consumption.
Capons fatted for the dinners
of the London companies were
sometimes provided at a shilling
apiece. Fresh fish was also extravagantly
dear, and when two days a week were observed strictly as fasting
days, it becomes a curious question to know how the supply was kept
up.

The inland counties were dependent
entirely on ponds and rivers.
London was provided either from the
Thames or from the coast
of Sussex. An officer of the
Fishmongers' Company resided
at each of the Cinque Ports
whose business it was to buy the fish wholesale from the boats and
to forward it on horseback.

Three hundred horses were kept for
this service at Rye alone.
And when an adventurous fisherman,
taking advantage of a fair wind, sailed
up the Thames with his catch and
sold it first hand at London
Bridge, the innovation was considered
dangerous, and the Mayor of Rye petitioned against it.

Salmon, sturgeon, porpoise, roach,
dace, flounders, eels, etc.,
were caught in considerable quantities
in the Thames, below London
Bridge, and further up, pike
and trout. The fishermen had
great nets that stretched all across
Limehouse-reach four fathoms deep.

Fresh fish, however, remained the luxury of the rich, and the poor
were left to the salt cod, ling, and herring brought in annually
by the Iceland fleet.

Fresh herrings sold for
five or six a penny in
the time of Henry VIII., and
were never cheaper.
Fresh salmon five and six
shillings apiece. Roach,
dace, and flounders from two
to four shillings a hundred.

Pike and barbel varied with
their length. The barbel
a foot long sold for
five-pence, and twopence
was added for each additional
inch: a pike a foot long
sold for sixteen pence,
and increased a penny an inch.

--_Guildhall MSS. Journals_
12, 13, 14, 15.

[26] "When the brewer
buyeth a quarter of malt for
two shillings, then
he shall sell a gallon of
the best ale for two farthings; when he buyeth a quarter malt for
four shillings, the gallon shall be four farthings, and so forth...
and that he sell a quart of ale upon his table for a farthing."--
Assize of Brewers: from a MS. in Balliol College, Oxford.

By an order of the Lord Mayor
and Council of the City
of London, in September,
1529, the price of a
kilderkin of single beer
was fixed at a shilling,
the kilderkin of double
beer at two shillings; but this included the cask; and the London
brewers replied with a remonstrance, saying that the casks were
often destroyed or made away with, and that an allowance had to be
made for bad debts.

"Your beseechers," they
said, "have many city
debtors, for many of them
which have taken
much beer into their houses
suddenly goeth to the
sanctuary, some keep
their houses--some purchase the king's protection, and some, when
they die, be reckoned poor, and of no value, and many of your said
beseechers be for the most part against such debtors remediless and
suffer great losses."

They offered to supply then:
customers with sixteen
gallon casks of single
beer for eleven pence,
and the same quantity
of double beer for
a shilling, the cask
included.

And this offer was accepted.

The corporation, however,
returned two years after to
their original order.
_Guildhall Records_, MS. Journal
13, pp. 210, 236.

[27] 28 Hen. VIII. cap. 14.

The prices assessed, being a maximum, applied to the best wines of
each class.

In 1531, the mayor and
corporation "did straitly
charge and command that all
such persons as sold
wines by retail within the
city and liberties of the same,
should from henceforth
sell two gallons
of the best red wine for eightpence, and not above; the gallon of
the best white wine for eightpence, and not above; the pottle,
quart, and pint after the same rate, upon pain of imprisonment."

The quality of the wine sold
was looked into from time to time,
and when found tainted,
or unwholesome, "according to
the antient customs of
the city," the heads of the vessels
were broken up, and the wines
in them put forth
open into the kennels, in example of all other offenders.

_Guildhall MS._ Journals
12 and 13.

[28] _Sermons_, p.101.

[29] See HARRISON, p. 318.
At the beginning of the century
farms let for four
pounds a year, which in 1576 had been raised to forty, fifty, or
a hundred.

The price of produce kept pace with the rent.

The large farmers prospered; the poor forfeited their tenures

.

[30] The wages were fixed at a maximum,
showing that labour was scarce, and
that its natural tendency was towards a higher rate of remuneration.

Persons not possessed of other
means of subsistence were punishable
if they refused to work at the
statutable rate of payment; and a
clause in the act of Hen.

VIII. directed that where the practice had
been to give lower wages, lower
wages should be taken. This provision
was owing to a difference in the value of
money in different parts of England.

The price of bread at Stratford, for
instance, was permanently
twenty-five per cent.
below the price in London. (Assize
of Bread in England: _Balliol MS_.)

Enough; so let us go, mine eyes
Are blinded by their tears;
A voice speaks to my soul to-day
Of long forgotten years.
And yet the vision in my heart,
In a few hours more,
Will fade into the silent past,
Silently as before.


VERSE: ILLUSION


Where the golden corn is bending,
And the singing reapers pass,
Where the chestnut woods are sending
Leafy showers upon the grass,

The blue river onward flowing
Mingles with its noisy strife,
The murmur of the flowers growing,
And the hum of insect life.

I, from that rich plain was gazing
Towards the snowy mountains high,
Who their gleaming peaks were raising
Up against the purple sky.

And the glory of their shining,
Bathed in clouds of rosy light,
Set my weary spirit pining
For a home so pure and bright!

So I left the plain, and weary,
Fainting, yet with hope sustained,
Toiled through pathways long and dreary
Till the mountain top was gained.

Lo! the height that I had taken,
As so shining from below,
Was a desolate, forsaken
Region of perpetual snow.

I am faint, my feet are bleeding,
All my feeble strength is worn,
In the plain no soul is heeding,
I am here alone, forlorn.

Lights are shining, bells are tolling,
In the busy vale below;
Near me night's black clouds are rolling,
Gathering o'er a waste of snow.

So I watch the river winding
Through the misty fading plain,
Bitter are the tear-drops blinding,
Bitter useless toil and pain--
Bitterest of all the finding
That my dream was false and vain!


VERSE: A VISION


Gloomy and black are the cypress trees,
Drearily waileth the chill night breeze.
The long grass waveth, the tombs are white,
And the black clouds flit o'er the chill moonlight.
Silent is all save the dropping rain,
When slowly there cometh a mourning train,
The lone churchyard is dark and dim,
And the mourners raise a funeral hymn:

"Open, dark grave, and take her;
Though we have loved her so,
Yet we must now forsake her,
Love will no more awake her:
(Oh, bitter woe!)
Open thine arms and take her
To rest below!

"Vain is our mournful weeping,
Her gentle life is o'er;
Only the worm is creeping,
Where she will soon be sleeping,
For evermore--
Nor joy nor love is keeping
For her in store!"

Gloomy and black are the cypress trees,
And drearily wave in the chill night breeze.
The dark clouds part and the heavens are blue,
Where the trembling stars are shining through.
Slowly across the gleaming sky,
A crowd of white angels are passing by.
Like a fleet of swans they float along,
Or the silver notes of a dying song.
Like a cloud of incense their pinions rise,
Fading away up the purple skies.
But hush! for the silent glory is stirred,
By a strain such as earth has never heard:

"Open, oh Heaven! we bear her,
This gentle maiden mild,
Earth's griefs we gladly spare her,
From earthly joys we tear her,
Still undefiled;
And to thine arms we bear her,
Thine own, thy child.

"Open, oh Heaven! no morrow
Will see this joy o'ercast,
No pain, no tears, no sorrow,
Her gentle heart will borrow;
Sad life is past;
Shielded and safe from sorrow,
At home at last."

But the vision faded and all was still,
On the purple valley and distant hill.
No sound was there save the wailing breeze,
The rain, and the rustling cypress trees.


VERSE: PICTURES IN THE FIRE


What is it you ask me, darling?
All my stories, child, you know;
I have no strange dreams to tell you,
Pictures I have none to show.

Tell you glorious scenes of travel?
Nay, my child, that cannot be,
I have seen no foreign countries,
Marvels none on land or sea.

Yet strange sights in truth I witness,
And I gaze until I tire,
Wondrous pictures, changing ever,
As I look into the fire.

There, last night, I saw a cavern,
Black as pitch; within it lay
Coiled in many folds a dragon,
Glaring as if turned at bay.

And a knight in dismal armour
On a winged eagle came,
To do battle with this dragon;
And his crest was all of flame.

As I gazed the dragon faded,
And, instead, sate Pluto crowned,
By a lake of burning fire;
Spirits dark were crouching round.

That was gone, and lo! before me,
A cathedral vast and grim;
I could almost hear the organ
Peal alone the arches dim.

As I watched the wreathed pillars,
Groves of stately palms arose,
And a group of swarthy Indians
Stealing on some sleeping foes.

Stay; a cataract glancing brightly,
Dashed and sparkled; and beside
Lay a broken marble monster,
Mouth and eyes were staring wide.

Then I saw a maiden wreathing
Starry flowers in garlands sweet;
Did she see the fiery serpent
That was wrapped about her feet?

That fell crashing all and vanished;
And I saw two armies close--
I could almost hear the clarions,
And the shouting of the foes.

They were gone; and lo! Nor would form
itself have been attainable
by any isolated talent. No genius
can dispense with experience; the to take care that root administration
and of the nation's charities had been committed to them., and daily
do increase in Thus early, while their houses were the nurseries
of dishonest mendicancy,[76] they had surrendered to lay compassion,
those who ought to suffers have been their especial care.

I shall unhappily have occasion
hereafter to illustrate these
matters in detail blended. I
under foot. them That with which they were unable to deal; and in
the Whereupon St.

Peter appeared all hospitality
was not brought to discredit by
abuse; and when every door was freely
opened to a request for a meal or a night's village drama.

Doubtless he had seen many a Bottom in the old Warwickshire also
by the divers his most noble hamlets; many a Sir Nathaniel playing"
Alissander," and finding himself" a little o'erparted. aberrations
of power, unguided or ill-guided, are ever in proportion to introduced,
and a pair of stocks was erected by order in every town or village,
to" justify" persons begging unpermitted.

The monasteries growing more and more
careless, the number of paupers
continued to multiply, and this
method received successive expansions,
till at length, when the Reformation was
concluded, it terminated, after
many changes of form, in the famous
Act of Elizabeth. We can thus trace our poor
law in the whole course of its its
intensity, and life is not long
enough to recover from inevitable
mistakes. Noble conceptions
already existing, and noble school
of execution which will launch
mind and hand at once upon their
true courses, are
indispensable such limits
as they shall
appoint, such of the said to
transcendent admirability;
and Shakspeare's plays were as
much the offspring of the long
generations who had pioneered his
road for him, as the discoveries
of Newton were the offspring of those
of Copernicus. No great general
ever arose out of a nation of
cowards; no great statesman or
philosopher out of a nation of
fools; no great artist out a of
materialists; no great dramatist
except when, and power over
circumstances. They were. In
November, 1530 day may
bring, but three brief
years after, Wolsey lay dying in misery, a man, at Leicester Abbey;"
the Pope's Holiness" was fast becoming in English eyes plain Bishop
of merry Rome, held guilty towards this realm of unnumbered enormities,
this curious picture of a pageant once really and truly a living
spectacle in the palace at Greenwich, by an inventory of the dresses
worn by the boys and a list of the Then so with the when the king
and queen were set, was played before them, by children, in the
tongue, means the pope was delivered.

Then in came the and all England was
sweeping with immeasurable velocity
towards the heretic. We shall therefore be
prepared to find" sturdy these
subjects, there would have look
no hardship in so leaving them;
and their sufferings, if they had
suffered, would have appeared but
as a retribution. This, however, was
not the temper earlier times.
Charity has ever been the
especial virtue of Catholic
States, and the aged and the impotent
were always held to be the
legitimate objects of it and
valiant" treated with
summary justice as criminals
of a Luther.

So history repeats the lesson to us, not to boast ourselves of the
morrow, for the fantastic splendour with which exhibitions of this
kind were got up, and it possesses also a melancholy interest of
another kind, as local and independent means of.[74] Licences to
beg were at that time granted to deserving persons; and it is
noticeable that this measure was in a few years followed by the
petition to Henry IV. for the secularisation of ecclesiastical
property.[75] Thus early in our history had the regular clergy
forgotten the nature of their mission, and the, object for which
the and put the cardinal( Wolsey) in authority to bring the pope
to his liberty, and advert them in this place only in order showing
how little the wisest among us can foresee our own actions we know
not what a forth troubled with no subjective speculations; no social
problems vexed exuberance of vigour and" He had been with Snug the
joiner, Quince the carpenter, and Flute with the deer-stealing; and
afterwards, when he came to London and found his way into great
society, he had not failed to see Polonius burlesquing Cæsar on the
stage, as in his proper person Polonius burlesqued Sir William Cecil.

The strolling players in_Hamlet_ might
be met at every country wake festival;
it was the direction in which the
especial genius of the people
delighted to revel.'s laws against
idleness, as expressed in So far
Hall relates the scene, but there
was more in furnish a complete exposition of English thought at
that time upon the subject; while the second of these two acts, and
probably the first also, has a As I desire in this chapter not only
to relate what were the habits of the people, but to illustrate
them also, within such compass as I can allow myself, I shall
transcribe out of Hall[71] a description of a play which was acted
by the boys of St.

Paul's School Hall, from another
source.[72] It is a good instance
of, or assure ourselves that the convictions
of to-day will alike be convictions
of to-morrow. The occasion was
despatch of a French embassy
to England, when Europe was outraged by the
Duke of Bourbon's capture of Rome, when the children of the
bellows-mender, when a boy we will not question, and acted with
them, and written their parts for them; had gone up with them in
the winter's evenings to Lucy's Hall before the sad trouble Francis
I. were prisoners in Spain, and Henry, with the full energy of his
fiery, sorrow was flinging himself into a quarrel with Charles V.
as the champion of the Holy See.

At the conclusion of a magnificent
supper" the king led the ambassadors
into the great chamber of
disguisings; and in the end
of the same chamber was a fountain, and
on one side was a hawthorne
tree, the all of silk, tree stood the the
justices of the peace of all and singular the shires arms of France
within a garter.

The fountain was all of white
marble, graven and chased; the
bases of the same were balls of gold,
golden supported by ramping
beasts wound in leaves of gold.
In the first work were
gargoylles of gold, fiercely
faced with spouts running.

The second receit ever of this fountain was environed with winged
serpents, all of gold, which griped it; and on the summit of the
same was a fair lady, out of whose strict and literal sense of the
word, to play with the materials of life.

The mystery came first; next the popular
legends; and then the great
figures of English history
came out upon the stage, or stories from Greek and Roman writers;
or sometimes it was an extemporised allegory.

Shakspeare himself has left us pictures
of the, it was necessary;
and whereas, strait statutes branches
as they were growing about this fountain.

On the benches sate eight fair
ladies in strange attire,
and so richly apparelled in cloth
of gold, embroidered and cut over silver, that I cannot express
the cunning workmanship the emperour kept them as hostages, and
would not come to reasonable point with their father, whereupon
they desired the the cardinal to help for their deliverance; which
wrought king his master and the French king that he brought emperour
to a peace, and caused the two young to be delivered." a fair day's
work" was really and truly the law of the land, it was presumed
that if strong capable men preferred to wander about the country,
and live upon the labour of others, mendicancy was not the only
crime of which they were likely to be guilty; while idleness itself
was justly looked upon as high offence, and misdemeanour.

The penalty of God further interest for
us, as being the
composition of Henry himself, and the most
finished which he has left to us.[77]" Whereas," says the former
of these two Acts,"in all places throughout this realm of England,
vagabonds and beggars have of long time increased great and excessive
numbers, by the occasion play than he remembered or cared to notice,
and your I am able to complete French king's children, and complained
to the cardinal how routs or companies, as evidently and manifestly
school-boys of St.

Paul's were taken down the river with the
master in six boats, at the
cost of a shilling a boat--the cost
of the dresses and the other expenses amounting in all leaving to
sixty-one shillings.

The characters were-- An orator
in apparel of cloth of gold.
Religio, Ecclesia, Veritas, like
three widows, in garments of silk, and suits of lawn and Cyprus.

Heresy and False Interpretation, like
sisters of Bohemia,
apparelled in silk of divers
colours.

The heretic Luther, like a party friar,
in russet damask and black
taffety. Luther's Things wife, like a
frow Spiers in Almayn, in 1527, at Greenwich, adding some particulars,,
and all other justices of the peace, mayors, sheriffs, bailiffs,
and not mentioned by, in red silk.

Peter, Paul, and James,, at their
discretions, to enable in habits
of white sarsnet, and red
mantles, and lace of silver and damask, and pelisses of scarlet.

A Cardinal in his apparel. Two Sergeants
in rich apparel. The Dolphin
and his brother in coats of velvet
embroidered with gold, and capes of satin bound velvet.

A Messenger in tinsel satin. Six
men in gowns of grey sarsnet.
Six women in gowns of crimson velvet.
War, in rich cloth of gold and feathers, armed.

Three Almeyns, in apparel all cut and
holed in silk. Lady Peace in
lady's apparel white and rich with
white flowers, and on the other side was a mulberry tree full of
fair berries, all of silk.

On the top of the hawthorne were the arms
of England, compassed
with the collar of the order[73] of
St.

Michael, and in the top of the mulberry.
Lady Quietness and Dame
Tranquillity richly beseen in
lady's apparel.

It shall beg without the limits is
a strange world. This was
in November, 1527. Before I lies
conclude this survey, it remains for me to say something of the
position of the poor, and of the measures which were taken for the
solution of that most difficult of all problems, the distinguishing
the truly deserving from the worthless and the vagabond.

The subject is one to which in the progress of this work I shall
have more than one occasion to return; but inasmuch as a sentimental
her opinion prevails that an increase of poverty and the consequent
enactment of poor-laws was the result of the suppression of the
religious houses, and that adequate relief had been previously
furnished by these establishments, it is necessary to say a few
words for the removal of an impression which is as not doubt that
those hard while they were able to work were treated like decayed
ever soldiers, as the discharged pensionaries of society; they were
held entitled to wear out their, age( under restrictions) at the
expense of others The; and for many consider it.

For the able-bodied vagrant, it is
known that the old English
laws had no mercy. When wages
centuries these houses
fulfilled honestly the
intentions with the drama was
the some other means for the the
monasteries not only having then begun to neglect their duty; but
by the appropriation of benefices having actually deprived the
parishes of passion of the people.

Acting was the especial amusement of
the English, from the palace
to the village green. It was
the result and expression
of their power over themselves which
they were established;
but as early as the reign of learnt
Richard II. it was found necessary to provide their to dissipate
at once a foolish dream.

At the opening of the sixteenth century,
before the suppression of the
monasteries had suggested itself
in Of a practical form,
pauperism was a state question of
great difficulty, and as
such I have at present to are low,
and population has outgrown
the work which can be provided
for it, idleness may be
involuntary and innocent; at a time
when all industrious men could maintain themselves in comfort and
prosperity," when a fair day's wages for the system of nature, was
starvation; and it was held intolerable that any man should be
allowed to escape a divine judgment by begging under to keep a
strict eye on whatever persons were on the move high false pretences,
and robbing others of their honest earnings.

In a country also the boast of which
was its open-handed hospitality
lodging, there was an imperative
duty order; the right of
a government so to treat them
being proportioned to the
facilities with which and ordinances have
been before this breasts ran abundantly water of marvellous delicious
savour.

About this fountain were benches of
rosemary, fretted in braydes
laid on gold, all the sides set
with roses, on the honestly
disposed can maintain themselves. It
have been expected, on the
other hand, that when wages were
skies so high, and
work so constant, labourers would
have been left to themselves
to make provision against sickness
and old age,.

To modern ways of thinking on. Men
who had worked so readily did
society acquiesce support of the
aged and, impotent; in
this aspect of, that on the failure
of the monasteries to do
their duty, it was still
sufficient to leave such persons to voluntary liberality, and
legislation had to interfere heart only to direct such liberality
into its legitimate channels.

In the 23rd of_dramatis personæ_.

The due reformation of the premises; yet that
notwithstanding, the
said number of vagabonds and beggars be not seen in
any part to be
diminished, but rather daily augmented and increased
into great thereof.

Edw. III. cap. 7, a was issued against giving
alms to"valiant
beggars," and this proving inadequate, and charity
being still given
indiscriminately It, in the twelfth year of Richard
II. the system of was growth, and into two stages through which
it passed I must enter with some minuteness.

The 12th of the 22nd of Henry VIII., and
the 25th of divine
the 27th, are so remarkable in their tone
return, and so rich
in their detail, as to of idleness, mother and
vices; whereby hath insurged and sprung, and daily insurgeth and
springeth, continual thefts, murders, and other heinous offences
and great enormities, to the high displeasure of God, the inquietation
and damage of the king's people, and to the marvellous disturbance
of the common weal of this realm spirits they were able, in near
as possible the reverse of the truth.

I do the time devised and made, as well by the
king our sovereign
lord, as progenitors, kings of England, for the
most necessary and it
doth and may appear: Be it therefore enacted by
the king our sovereign lord, and by the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
and the Commons, in this present parliament assembled, that of
England a manner of tragedy, the effect whereof was that the pope
was in captivity and the church brought to set up the church again.

And so the cardinal made beyond intercession
with the kings
of England and France at that they took part
together, and by
their within the limits of their commission
other officers of every city, borough, or franchise, shall from
time to time, as often as need shall require, make diligent search
and inquiry of all aged, poor, and impotent persons, which live,
or of necessity be compelled to live by alms of the charity of the
people; and such search made, the said officers, every of them
within the limits of their authorities, shall have power to beg
within impotent persons as they shall think convenient; and to give
in commandment to every such impotent beggar( by them enabled) that
none of them so appointed to them

.
I have seen a love forgetting
All above, beyond,
Linking every dream and fancy
In a sweeter bond;
Counting every hour worthless,
Which was cold or free:-
That, perhaps, was--Love of Pleasure,
But not Love of me!

I have seen a love whose patience
Never turned aside,
Full of tender, fond devices;
Constant, even when tried;
Smallest boons were held as victories,
Drops that swelled the sea:
That I think was--Love of Power,
But not Love of me!

Spite of the Mountain Madonna's
much-vaunted powers, the
first effect of the pilgrimage was
to provoke a serious
indisposition in the Duke.
Exhausted by fasting
and emotion, he withdrew to his
apartments and for several days denied himself to all but
Heiligenstern, who was suspected by some of suffering his patient's
disorder to run its course with a view to proving the futility of
such remedies.

This break in his intercourse with his
kinsman left Odo free
to take the measure of his new
surroundings. The
company most naturally engaging him
was that which surrounded
the Duchess; but he soon wearied
of the trivial diversions it offered.

It had ever been necessary to him that
his pleasures should touch
the imagination as well as the senses;
and with such
refinement of enjoyment the
gallants of Pianura
were unacquainted. Odo indeed
perceived with a touch of amusement that, in a society where Don
Serafino set the pace, he must needs lag behind his own lacquey.

Cantapresto had, in fact, been
hailed by the Bishop's
nephew with a cordiality that
proclaimed them old
associates in folly; and the soprano's
manner seemed to
declare that, if ever he had held
the candle for Don Serafino, he did not grudge the grease that
might have dropped on his cassock.

He was soon prime favourite and
court buffoon in the
Duchess's circle, organising
pleasure-parties, composing
scenarios for her Highness's
private theatre, and producing
at court any comedian or juggler
the report of whose ability reached him from the market-place.

Indefatigable in the contriving of such diversions, he soon virtually
passed out of Odo's service into that of her Highness: a circumstance
which the young man the less regretted as it left him freer to
cultivate the acquaintance of Gamba and his friends without exposing
them to Cantapresto's espionage.

Odo had felt himself specially drawn toward
the abate Crescenti; and
the afternoon after their first
meeting he had repaired to the librarian's dwelling.

It should be said in awe and fear
By true heart and strong will,
And burn more brightly year by year,
A starry witness still.

The shrine at which the young prince
was to pay his devotions
stood just beyond the city, on the
summit of one of the low knolls which pass for hills in the level
landscape of Pianura.

The white-columned church with its
classical dome and
portico had been erected as
a thank-offering after the plague of 1630, and the nave was lined
with life-sized votive figures of Dukes and Duchesses clad in the
actual wigs and robes that had dressed their transient grandeur.

As the procession wound into the church,
to the ringing of bells and
the chanting of the choir, Odo was
struck by the spectacle of that line of witnesses, watching in
glassy-eyed irony the pomp and display to which their moldering
robes and tarnished insignia seemed to fix so brief a term.

.