And if chance offered, and time was not pressing, the riverman would
give his helpless victim a jerk or so into a more difficult position.
Times of rising water--when the sluice-gates above had been opened--were
the most prolific of opportunities. Logs rarely jam on rising water,
for the simple reason that constantly the surface area of the river
is increasing, thus tending to separate the logs. On the other hand,
falling water, tending to crowd the drive closer together, is especially
prolific of trouble. Therefore, on flood water the watchers scattered
along the stretches of the river had little to do--save strand
Heinzman's logs for him. And when flood water had passed, some of those
logs were certainly high and dry.

Up to a certain point this was all very well. Orde took pains not to
countenance it officially, and caused word to be passed about, that
while he did not expect his men to help drive Heinzman's logs, they must
not go out of their way to strand them.

"If things get too bad, he'll have spies down here to collect evidence
on us," said Orde, "and he'll jug some of us for interference with his
property. We don't own the river."

"How about them booms?" asked the Rough Red.

"I did own them," explained Orde, "and I had a right to take them up
when I had finished with them."

This hint was enough. The men did not cease from a labour that tickled
them mightily, but they adopted a code of signals. Strangers were not
uncommon. Spectators came out often from the little towns and from
the farms round-about. When one of these appeared the riverman nearest
raised a long falsetto cry. This was taken up by his next neighbour and
passed on. In a few minutes all that section of the drive knew that it
would be wise to "lie low." And inside of two weeks Orde had the great
satisfaction of learning that Heinzman was working--and working hard--a
crew of fifty men.

"A pretty fair crew, even if he was taking out his whole drive,"
commented Orde.

The gods of luck seemed to be with the new enterprise. Although Orde
had, of course, taken the utmost pains to foresee every contingency
possible to guard against, nevertheless, as always when dealing with
Nature's larger forces, he anticipated some of those gigantic obstacles
which continually render uncertain wilderness work. Nothing of the kind
happened. There formed none of the tremendous white-water jams that pile
up several million feet of logs, tax every resource of men, horses, and
explosives, and require a week or so to break. No men were killed, and
only two injured. No unexpected floods swept away works on which the
drive depended. The water held out to carry the last stick of timber
over the shallowest rapids. Weather conditions were phenomenal--and
perfect. All up and down the river the work went with that vim and dash
that is in itself an assurance of success. The Heinzman affair, which
under auspices of evil augury might have become a serious menace to the
success of the young undertaking, now served merely to add a spice
of humour to the situation. Among the men gained currency a
half-affectionate belief in "Orde's luck."

After this happy fashion the drive went, until at last it entered the
broad, deep, and navigable stretches of the river from Redding to the
lake. Here, barring the accident of an extraordinary flood, the troubles
were over. On the broad, placid bosom of the stream the logs would
float. A crew, following, would do the easy work of sacking what logs
would strand or eddy in the lazy current; would roll into the faster
waters the component parts of what were by courtesy called jams, but
which were in reality pile-ups of a few hundred logs on sand bars
mid-stream; and in the growing tepid warmth of summer would tramp
pleasantly along the river trail. Of course, a dry year would make
necessary a larger crew and more labour; of course, a big flood might
sweep the logs past all defences into the lake for an irretrievable
loss. But such floods come once in a century, and even the dryest of dry
years could not now hang the drive. As Orde sat in his buckboard, ready
to go into town for a first glimpse of Carroll in more than two months,
he gazed with an immense satisfaction over the broad river moving brown
and glacier-like as though the logs that covered it were viscid and
composed all its substance. The enterprise was practically assured of
success.

For a while now Orde was to have a breathing spell. A large number
of men were here laid off. The remainder, under the direction of Jim
Denning, would require little or no actual supervision. Until the jam
should have reached the distributing booms above Monrovia, the affair
was very simple. Before he left, however, he called Denning to him.

"Jim," said he, "I'll be down to see you through the sluiceways at
Redding, of course. But now that you have a good, still stretch of
river, I want you to have the boys let up on sacking out those "H" logs.
And I want you to include in our drive all the Heinzman logs from above
you possibly can. If you can fix it, let their drive drift down into
ours.

"Then we'll have to drive their logs for them," objected Denning.

"Sure," rejoined Orde, "but it's easy driving; and if that crew of his
hasn't much to do, perhaps he'll lay most of them off here at Redding."

Denning looked at his principal for a moment, then a slow grin
overspread his face. Without comment he turned back to camp, and Orde
took up his reins.


XXV


"Oh, I'm so GLAD to get you back!" cried Carroll over and over again,
as she clung to him. "I don't live while you're away. And every drop of
rain that patters on the roof chills my heart, because I think of it as
chilling you; and every creak of this old house at night brings me
up broad awake, because I hear in it the crash of those cruel great
timbers. Oh, oh, OH! I'm so glad to get you! You're the light of my
life; you're my whole life itself!"--she smiled at him from her perch on
his knee--"I'm silly, am I not?" she said. "Dear heart, don't leave me
again."

"I've got to support an extravagant wife, you know," Orde reminded her
gravely.

"I know, of course," she breathed, bending lightly to him. "You have
your work in the world to do, and I would not have it otherwise. It is
great work--wonderful work--I've been asking questions."

Orde laughed.

"It's work, just like any other. And it's hard work," said he.

She shook her head at him slowly, a mysterious smile on her lips.
Without explaining her thought, she slipped from his knee and glided
across to the tall golden harp, which had been brought from Monrovia.
The light and diaphanous silk of her loose peignoir floated about her,
defining the maturing grace of her figure. Abruptly she struck a great
crashing chord.

Then, with an abandon of ecstasy she plunged into one of those wild and
sea-blown saga-like rhapsodies of the Hungarians, full of the wind in
rigging, the storm in the pines, of shrieking, vast forces hurtling
unchained through a resounding and infinite space, as though deep down
in primeval nature the powers of the world had been loosed. Back and
forth, here and there, erratic and swift and sudden as lightning the
theme played breathless. It fell.

"What is that?" gasped Orde, surprised to find himself tense, his blood
rioting, his soul stirred.

She ran to him to hide her face in his neck.

"Oh, it's you, you, you!" she cried.

He held her to him closely until her excitement had died.

"Do you think it is good to get quite so nervous, sweetheart?" he asked
gently, then. "Remember--"

"Oh, I do, I do!" she broke in earnestly. "Every moment of my waking and
sleeping hours I remember him. Always I keep his little soul before me
as a light on a shrine. But to-night--oh! Now the metamorphosis was
reversed: need it be wondered if I were sad?

So completely was I absorbed in my thoughts upon this matter, that I
had not perceived the entrance of O'Leary and Trevanion, who, unaware
of my being in the apartment, as I was stretched upon a sofa in a
dark corner, drew their chairs towards the fire and began chatting.

"Do you know, Mr.

Trevanion," said O'Leary, "I am half afraid of this disguise of mine.

I sometimes think I am not like a Pole; and if she should discover
me"--
"No fear of that in the world; your costume is perfect, your beard
unexceptionable.

I could, perhaps, have desired a little less paunch; but then"--

"That comes of fretting, as Falstaff says; and you must not forget
that I am banished from my country."
"Now, as to your conversation, I should advise you saying very little
--not one word in English. You may, if you like, call in the assistance
of Irish when hard pressed?

"I have my fears on that score. There is no knowing where that might
lead to discovery. You know the story of the Knight of Kerry and Billy
McCabe?"
"I fear I must confess my ignorance--I have never heard of it."
"Then may be you never knew Giles Daxon?"

"I have not had that pleasure either."
"Lord bless me, how strange that is! I thought he was better known than
the Duke of Wellington or the travelling piper.

Well, I must tell you the story, for it has a moral, too--indeed
several morals; but you'll find that out for yourself.

Well, it seems that one day the Knight of Kerry was walking along the
Strand in London, killing an hour's time, till the house was done
prayers, and Hume tired of hearing himself speaking; his eye was
caught by an enormous picture displayed upon the wall of a house,
representing a human figure covered with long dark hair, with huge
nails upon his hands, and a most fearful expression of face.

At first the Knight thought it was Dr. Bowring; but on coming nearer
he heard a man with a scarlet livery and a cocked hat, call out, 'Walk
in, ladies and gentlemen--the most vonderful curiosity ever exhibited--only
one shilling--the vild man from Chippoowango, in Africay--eats raw wittles
without being cooked, and many other surprising and pleasing performances.'

"The knight paid his money, and was admitted.

At first the crowd prevented his seeing any thing--for the place
was full to suffocation, and the noise awful--for, besides the
exclamations and applause of the audience, there were three
barrel-organs, playing 'Home, sweet Home!'

and 'Cherry Ripe,' and the wild man himself contributed his share to
the uproar.

At last, the Knight obtained, by dint of squeezing, and some pushing a
place in the front, when, to his very great horror, he beheld a figure
that far eclipsed the portrait without doors.

"It was a man nearly naked, covered with long, shaggy hair, that
grew even over his nose and cheek bones.

He sprang about, sometimes on his feet, sometimes, all-fours, but
always uttering the most fearful yells, and glaring upon the crowd, in
a manner that was really dangerous.

The Knight did not feel exactly happy at the whole proceeding, and
began heartily to wish himself back in the 'House,' even upon a
committee of privileges, when, suddenly, the savage gave a more
frantic scream than before, and seized upon a morsel of raw beef,
which a keeper extended to him upon a long fork, like a tandem
whip--he was not safe, it appears, at close quarters;--this he tore
to pieces eagerly and devoured in the most voracious manner, amid
great clapping of hands, and other evidences of satisfaction from
the audience.

I'll go, now, thought the Knight: for, God knows whether, in his hungry
moods, he might not fancy to conclude his dinner by a member of parliament.
Just at this instant, some sounds struck upon his ear that surprised
him not a little. He listened more attentively; and, conceive if you
can, his amazement, to find that, amid his most fearful cries, and
wild yells, the savage was talking Irish.
Laugh, if you like; but it's truth I am telling you; nothing less than
Irish. There he was, jumping four feet high in the air, eating his raw
meat: pulling out his hair by handfuls; and, amid all this, cursing the
whole company to his heart's content, in as good Irish as ever was
heard in Tralee.

Now, though the Knight had heard of red Jews and white Negroes, he had
never happened to read any account of an African Irishman; so, he
listened very closely, and by degrees, not only the words were known
to him, but the very voice was familiar.

The mills were all working now,
busily cutting into the residue of last season's logs. Soon they would
need more.

At the booms everything was in readiness to receive the jam. The long
swing arm slanting across the river channel was attached to its winch
which would operate it. When shut it would close the main channel and
shunt into the booms the logs floating in the river. There, penned at
last by the piles driven in a row and held together at the top by bolted
timbers, they would lie quiet. Men armed with pike-poles would then take
up the work of distribution according to the brands stamped on the ends.
Each brand had its own separate "sorting pens," the lower end leading
again into the open river. From these each owner's property was rafted
and towed to his private booms at his mill below.

Orde spent the day before the jam appeared in constructing what he
called a "boomerang."

"Invention of my own," he explained to Newmark. "Secret invention just
yet. I'm going to hold up the drive in the main river until we have
things bunched, then I'm going to throw a big crew down here by the
swing. Heinzman anticipates, of course, that I'll run the entire drive
into the booms and do all my sorting there. Naturally, if I turn his
logs loose into the river as fast as I run across them, he will be able
to pick them up one at a time, for he'll only get them occasionally. If
I keep them until everything else is sorted, only Heinzman's logs will
remain; and as we have no right to hold logs, we'll have to turn them
loose through the lower sorting booms, where he can be ready to raft
them. In that way he gets them all right without paying us a cent. See?"

"Yes, I see," said Newmark.

"Well," said Orde, with a laugh, "here is where I fool him. I'm going
to rush the drive into the booms all at once, but I'm going to sort out
Heinzman's logs at these openings near the entrance and turn them into
the main channel."

"What good will that do?" asked Newmark sceptically. "He gets them
sorted just the same, doesn't he?"

"The current's fairly strong," Orde pointed out, "and the river's
almighty wide. When you spring seven or eight million feet on a man, all
at once and unexpected, and he with no crew to handle them, he's going
to keep almighty busy. And if he don't stop them this side his mill,
he'll have to raft and tow them back; and if he don't stop 'em this side
the lake, he may as well kiss them all good bye--except those that drift
into the bayous and inlets and marshes, and other ungodly places."

"I see," said Newmark drily.

"But don't say a word anywhere," warned Orde. "Secrecy is the watchword
of success with this merry little joke."

The boomerang worked like a charm. The men had been grumbling at an
apparently peaceful yielding of the point at issue, and would have
sacked out many of the blazed logs if Orde had not held them rigidly
to it. Now their spirits flamed into joy again. The sorting went like
clockwork. Orde, in personal charge, watched that through the different
openings in his "boomerang" the "H" logs were shunted into the river.
Shortly the channel was full of logs floating merrily away down the
little blue wavelets. After a while Orde handed over his job to Tom
North.

"Can't stand it any longer, boys," said he. "I've got to go down and see
how the Dutchman is making it."

"Come back and tell us!" yelled one of the crew.

"You bet I will!" Orde shouted back.

He drove the team and buckboard down the marsh road to Heinzman's mill.
There he found evidences of the wildest excitement. The mill had been
closed down, and all the men turned in to rescue logs. Boats plied in
all directions. A tug darted back and forth. Constantly the number of
floating logs augmented, however. Many had already gone by.

"If you think you're busy now," said Orde to himself with a chuckle,
"just wait until you begin to get LOGS."

He watched for a few moments in silence.

"What's he doing with that tug?" thought he. "O-ho! He's stringing booms
across the river to hold the whole outfit."

He laughed aloud, turned his team about, and drove frantically back to
the booms. Every few moments he chuckled. His eyes danced. Hardly could
he wait to get there. Once at the camp, he leaped from the buckboard,
with a shout to the stableman, and ran rapidly out over the booms to
where the sorting of "H" logs was going merrily forward.

"He's shut down his mill," shouted Orde, "and he's got all that gang of
highbankers out, and every old rum-blossom in Monrovia, and I bet if you
say 'logs' to him, he'd chase his tail in circles."

"Want this job?" North asked him.

"No," said Orde, suddenly fallen solemn, "haven't time. I'm going to
take Marsh and the SPRITE and go to town. Old Heinzman," he added as
an afterthought, "is stringing booms across the river--obstructing
navigation."

He ran down the length of the whole boom to where lay the two tugs.

"Marsh," he called when still some distance away, "got up steam?"

There appeared a short, square, blue-clad man, with hard brown cheeks,
a heavy bleached flaxen moustache, and eyes steady, unwavering, and as
blue as the sky.

"Up in two minutes," he answered, and descended from the pilot house to
shout down a low door leading from the deck into the engine room.

"Harvey," he commanded, "fire her up!"

A tall, good-natured negro reached the upper half of his body from the
low door to seize an armful of the slabs piled along the narrow deck.
Ten minutes later the SPRITE, a cloud of white smoke pouring from her
funnel, was careening down the stretch of the river.

Captain Marsh guided his energetic charge among the logs floating in the
stream with the marvellous second instinct of the expert tugboat man.
A whirl of the wheel to the right, a turn to the left--the craft
heeled strongly under the forcing of her powerful rudder to avoid by
an arm's-length some timbers fairly flung aside by the wash. The
displacement of the rapid running seemed almost to press the water
above the level of the deck on either side and about ten feet from the
gunwale. As the low marshes and cat-tails flew past, Orde noted with
satisfaction that many of the logs, urged one side by the breeze, had
found lodgment among the reeds and in the bayous and inlets. One at a
time, and painfully, these would have to be salvaged.

In a short time the mills' tall smokestacks loomed in sight. The logs
thickened until it was with difficulty that Captain Marsh could thread
his way among them at all. Shortly Orde, standing by the wheel in the
pilot-house, could see down the stretches of the river a crowd of men
working antlike.

"They've got 'em stopped," commented Orde. "Look at that gang working
from boats! They haven't a dozen 'cork boots' among 'em."

"What do you want me to do?" asked Captain Marsh.

"This is a navigable river, isn't it?" replied Orde. "Run through!"

Marsh rang for half-speed and began to nose his way gently through the
loosely floating logs. Soon the tug had reached the scene of activity,
and headed straight for the slender line of booms hitched end to end and
stretching quite across the river.

"I'm afraid we'll just ride over them if we hit them too slow,"
suggested Marsh.

Orde looked at his watch.

"We'll be late for the mail unless we hurry," said he. Marsh whirled
the spokes of his wheel over and rang the engine-room bell. The water
churned white behind, the tug careened.

"Vat you do! Stop!" cried Heinzman from one of the boats.

Orde stuck his head from the pilot-house door.

"You're obstructing navigation!" he yelled. "I've got to go to town to
buy a postage-stamp."

The prow of the tug, accurately aimed by Marsh, hit square in the
junction of two of the booms. Immediately the water was agitated on both
sides and for a hundred feet or so by the pressure of the long poles
sidewise. There ensued a moment of strain; then the links snapped, and
the SPRITE plunged joyously through the opening. The booms, swept aside
by the current, floated to either shore. The river was open.

Orde, his head still out the door, looked back. "Slow down, Marsh," said
he. "Let's see the show." Already the logs caught by the booms had taken
their motion and had swept past the opening. Although the lonesome tug
Heinzman had on the work immediately picked up one end of the broken
boom, and with it started out into the river, she found difficulty in
making headway against the sweep of the logs. After a long struggle she
reached the middle of the river, where she was able to hold her own.

"Wonder what next?" speculated Orde. "How are they going to get the
other end of the booms out from the other bank?"

Captain Marsh had reversed the SPRITE. The tug lay nearly motionless
amidstream, her propeller slowly revolving.

Up river all the small boats gathered in a line, connected one to the
other by a rope. The tug passed over to them the cable attached to the
boom. Evidently the combined efforts of the rowboats were counted on
to hold the half-boom across the current while the tug brought out the
other half. When the tug dropped the cable, Orde laughed.

"Nobody but a Dutchman would have thought of that!" he cried. "Now for
the fun!"

Immediately the weight fell on the small boats, they were dragged
irresistibly backward. Even from a distance the three men on the SPRITE
could make out the white-water as the oars splashed and churned and
frantically caught crabs in a vain effort to hold their own. Marsh
lowered his telescope, the tears streaming down his face.

"It's better than a goat fight," said he.

Futilely protesting, the rowboats were dragged backward, turned as a
whip is snapped, and strung out along the bank below.

"They'll have to have two tugs before they can close the break that
way," commented Orde.

"Sure thing," replied Captain Marsh.

But at that moment a black smoke rolled up over the marshes, and shortly
around the bend from above came the LUCY BELLE.

The LUCY BELLE was the main excuse for calling the river navigable. She
made trips as often as she could between Redding and Monrovia. In luck,
she could cover the forty miles in a day. It was no unusual thing,
however, for the LUCY BELLE to hang up indefinitely on some one of
the numerous shifting sand bars. For that reason she carried more
imperishable freight than passengers. In appearance she was
two-storied, with twin smokestacks, an iron Indian on her top, and a
"splutter-behind" paddle-wheel.

"There comes his help," said Orde. "Old Simpson would stop to pick up a
bogus three-cent piece."

Sure enough, on hail from one of the rowboats, the LUCY BELLE slowed
down and stopped. After a short conference, she steamed clumsily over to
get hold of one end of the booms. The tug took the other. In time, and
by dint of much splashing, some collisions, and several attempts, the
ends of the booms were united.

By this time, however, nearly all the logs had escaped. The tug, towing
a string of rowboats, set out in pursuit.

The SPRITE continued on her way until beyond sight. Then she slowed down
again. The LUCY BELLE churned around the bend, and turned in toward the
tug.

"She's going to speak us," marvelled Orde. "I wonder what the dickens
she wants."

"Tug ahoy!" bellowed a red-faced individual from the upper deck. He was
dressed in blue and brass buttons, carried a telescope in one hand, and
was liberally festooned with gold braid and embroidered anchors.

"Answer him," Orde commanded Marsh.

"Hullo there, commodore! what is it?" replied the tug captain.

The red-faced figure glared down for a moment.

"They want a tug up there at Heinzman's. Can you go?"

"Sure!" cried Marsh, choking.

The LUCY BELLE sheered off magnificently.

"What do you think of that?" Marsh asked Orde.

"The commodore always acts as if that old raft was a sixty-gun frigate,"
was Orde's non-committal answer. "Head up stream again."

Heinzman saw the SPRITE coming, and rowed out frantically, splashing at
every stroke and yelling with every breath.

"Don't you go through there! Vait a minute! Stop, I tell you!"

"Hold up!" said Orde to Marsh.

Heinzman rowed alongside, dropped his oars and mopped his brow.

"Vat you do?" he demanded heatedly.

"I forgot the money to buy my stamp with," said Orde sweetly. "I'm going
back to get it."

"Not through my pooms!" cried Heinzman.

"Mr. Heinzman," said Orde severely, "you are obstructing a navigable
stream. I am doing business, and I cannot be interfered with."

"But my logs!" cried the unhappy mill man.

"I have nothing to do with your logs. You are driving your own logs,"
Orde reminded him.

Heinzman vituperated and pounded the gunwale.

"Go ahead, Marsh!" said Orde.

The tug gathered way. Soon Heinzman was forced to let go. For a second
time the chains were snapped. Orde and Marsh looked back over the
churning wake left by the SPRITE. The severed ends of the booms were
swinging back toward either shore. Between them floated a rowboat. In
the rowboat gesticulated a pudgy man. The river was well sprinkled with
logs. Evidently the sorting was going on well.

"May as well go back to the works," said Orde. "He won't string them
together again to-day--not if he waits for that tug he sent Simpson
for."

Accordingly, they returned to the booms, where work was suspended while
Orde detailed to an appreciative audience the happenings below. This
tickled the men immensely.

"Why, we hain't sorted out more'n a million feet of his logs," cried
Rollway Charlie. "He hain't SEEN no logs yet!"

They turned with new enthusiasm to the work of shunting "H" logs into
the channel.

In ten minutes, however, the stableman picked his way out over the booms
with a message for Orde.

"Mr. Heinzman's ashore, and wants to see you," said he.

Orde and Jim Denning exchanged glances.

"'Coon's come down," said the latter.

Orde found the mill man pacing restlessly up and down before a
steaming pair of horses. Newmark, perched on a stump, was surveying him
sardonically and chewing the end of an unlighted cigar.

"Here you poth are!" burst out Heinzman, when Orde stepped ashore. "Now,
this must stop. I must not lose my logs! Vat is your probosition?"

Newmark broke in quickly before Orde could speak.

"I've told Mr. Heinzman," said he, "that we would sort and deliver the
rest of his logs for two dollars a thousand."

"That will be about it," agreed Orde.

"But," exploded Heinzman, "that is as much as you agreet to drive and
deliffer my whole cut!"

"Precisely," said Newmark.

"Put I haf all the eggspence of driving the logs myself. Why shoult I
pay you for doing what I haf alretty paid to haf done?"

Orde chuckled.

"Heinzman," said he, "I told you I'd make you scratch gravel. Now it's
time to talk business. You thought you were boring with a mighty auger,
but it's time to revise. We aren't forced to bother with your logs, and
you're lucky to get out so easy. If I turn your whole drive into the
river, you'll lose more than half of it outright, and it'll cost you a
heap to salvage the rest. And what's more, I'll turn 'em in before you
can get hold of a pile-driver. I'll sort night and day," he bluffed,
"and by to-morrow morning you won't have a stick of timber above my
booms." He laughed again. "You want to get down to business almighty
sudden."

When finally Heinzman had driven sadly away, and the whole drive, "H"
logs included, was pouring into the main boom, Orde stretched his arms
over his head in a luxury of satisfaction.

"That just about settles that campaign," he said to Newmark.

"Oh, no, it doesn't," replied the latter decidedly.

"Why?" asked Orde, surprised. "You don't imagine he'll do anything
more?"

"No, but I will," said Newmark.


XXVII


Early in the fall the baby was born. It proved to be a boy. Orde,
nervous as a cat after the ordeal of doing nothing, tiptoed into the
darkened room. He found his wife weak and pale, her dark hair framing
her face, a new look of rapt inner contemplation rendering even more
mysterious her always fathomless eyes. To Orde she seemed fragile,
aloof, enshrined among her laces and dainty ribbons. Hardly dared he
touch her when she held her hand out to him weakly, but fell on his
knees beside the bed and buried his face in the clothes. She placed a
gentle hand caressingly on his head.

So they remained for some time. Finally he raised his eyes. She held her
lips to him. He kissed them.

"It seems sort of make-believe even yet, sweetheart," she smiled at him
whimsically, "that we have a real, live baby all of our own."

"Like other people," said Orde.

"Not like other people at all!" she disclaimed, with a show of
indignation.

Grandma Orde brought the newcomer in for Orde's inspection. He looked
gravely down on the puckered, discoloured bit of humanity with some
feeling of disappointment, and perhaps a faint uneasiness. After a
moment he voiced the latter.

"Is--do you think--that is--" he hesitated, "does the doctor say he's
going to be all right?"

"All right!" cried Grandma Orde indignantly. "I'd like to know if he
isn't all right now! What in the world do you expect of a new-born
baby?"

But Carroll was laughing softly to herself on the bed. She held out her
arms for the baby, and cuddled it close to her breast.

"He's a little darling," she crooned, "and he's going to grow up big
and strong, just like his daddy." The one we some of subjection: we are
perfectly slaves Assembly to the others. This thought came home most, lie
in the inclined to embonpoint, and a certain forcibly to leaned to my
bosom, as I reflected upon the step which led me on imperceptibly;"
which piece of philosophy, as well as its twin brother, that" will
be the same a. hundred years hence once married Where are his rambles
in high and bye-ways see when he have has a wife?

and what is left for anticipation after his wedding except perhaps,
to upon the arrangement of his funeral?

To a military man for the indulgence of that I had contracted of
but, upon the," have been rules to me from my childhood. The transition
and affection and love for one without whom merely a recompense
path.

All my early friends--all my vagrant my daydreams of figure, rather an
whole it was happy one--and now I about to surrender it for ever, not
yielding the future I was" now to surrender--for, what becomes of any
man's bachelor friends when he is to be so points of departure able to
ride a steeple-chase, and has daily, hourly associations with your
brother officers--the while morning cigar, the barrack-square
lounge--the" afternoon in ride--the game of billiards before
dinner--the mess( that get perfection of dinner however society)--the
plans for the evening--the deviled kidney at twelve--forming whence
you sail out upon your daily voyage through life.

Versus those you have that awful perversion of they all that is
struggles. natural--an officer's husband.

She has been a beauty young pursuing me with life were valueless
to me, but eagerness every shadow that crossed more than to any
other these are unplayful thoughts high complexion, a to the impulse
of.

All the fascinations of an army life, in war from one mode of life to
another perfectly different has ever seemed to cried black eyes
or me a great of a man's moral cowardice; besides that only them
the fact of quitting for ever thing, no matter have in how insignificant
or valueless, is always attended painful misgivings.

My bachelor life had its share of annoyances and to disappointments,
it is true;, peace springiness in her walk, and a jauntiness in her
air to my present embarrassment."

Well, lord, who( en parenthese) always turns out to be a creation made
by King c'est fini, now," said I, drawing upon that bountiful source Orde
of consolation ever open to man who mars his fortune--that" what
is peanut past ca n't be amended, that are ever sure to a sub in
marching regiment.

She can play backgammon, and sing"di tanti palpiti," and, if an Irishwoman,
is certain uncle a James after his abdication

.
Heinzman was already on the ground.

Newmark had the shadow of right on his side, for he applied for the
charter on the basis of the river improvements already put in by his
firm. Heinzman, however, possessed much political influence, a deep
knowledge of the subterranean workings of plot and counterplot, and a
"barrel." Although armed with an apparently incontestable legal right,
Newmark soon found himself fighting on the defensive. Heinzman wanted
the improvements already existing condemned and sold as a public utility
to the highest bidder. He offered further guarantees as to future
improvements. In addition were other and more potent arguments proffered
behind closed doors. Many cases resolved themselves into a bald question
of cash. Others demanded diplomacy. Jobs, fat contracts, business
favours, influence were all flung out freely--bribes as absolute as
though stamped with the dollar mark. Newspapers all over the State were
pressed into service. These, bought up by Heinzman and his prospective
partners in a lucrative business, spoke virtuously of private piracy
of what are now called public utilities, the exploiting of the people's
natural wealths, and all the rest of a specious reasoning the more
convincing in that it was in many other cases only too true. The
independent journals, uninformed of the rights of the case, either
remained silent on the matter, or groped in a puzzled and undecided
manner on both sides.

Against this secret but effective organisation Newmark most unexpectedly
found himself pitted. He had anticipated being absent but a week; he
became involved in an affair of months.

With decision he applied himself to the problem. He took rooms at the
hotel, sent for Orde, and began at once to set in motion the machinery
of opposition. The refreshed resources of the company were strained to
the breaking point in order to raise money for this new campaign opening
before it. Orde, returning to Lansing after a trip devoted to the
carrying out of Newmark's directions as to finances, was dismayed at
the tangle of strategy and cross-strategy, innuendo, vague and formless
cobweb forces by which he was surrounded. He could make nothing of them.
They brushed his face, he felt their influence, yet he could place his
finger on no tangible and comprehensible solidity. Among these delicate
and complicated cross-currents Newmark moved silent, cold, secret. He
seemed to understand them, to play with them, to manipulate them as
elements of the game. Above them was the hollow shock of the ostensible
battle--the speeches, the loud talk in lobbies, the newspaper virtue,
indignation, accusations; but the real struggle was here in the furtive
ways, in whispered words delivered hastily aside, in hotel halls on the
way to and from the stairs, behind closed doors of rooms without open
transoms.

Orde in comic despair acknowledged that it was all "too deep for him."
Nevertheless, it was soon borne in on him that the new company was
struggling for its very right to existence. It had been doing that
from the first; but now, to Orde the fight, the existence, had a new
importance. The company up to this point had been a scheme merely, an
experiment that might win or lose. Now, with the history of a drive
behind it, it had become a living entity. Orde would have fought against
its dissolution as he would have fought against a murder. Yet he had
practically to stand one side, watching Newmark's slender, gray-clad,
tense figure gliding here and there, more silent, more reserved, more
watchful every day.

The fight endured through most of the first half of the session. When
finally it became evident to Heinzman that Newmark would win, he made
the issue of toll rates the ditch of his last resistance, trying to
force legal charges so low as to eat up the profits. At the last,
however, the bill passed the board. The company had its charter.

At what price only Newmark could have told. He had fought with the tense
earnestness of the nervous temperament that fights to win without count
of the cost. The firm was established, but it was as heavily in debt as
its credit would stand. Newmark himself, though as calm and reserved and
precise as ever, seemed to have turned gray, and one of his eyelids had
acquired a slight nervous twitch which persisted for some months. He
took his seat at the desk, however, as calmly as ever. In three days
the scandalised howls of bribery and corruption had given place in the
newspapers to some other sensation.

"Joe," said Orde to his partner, "how about all this talk? Is there
really anything in it? You haven't gone in for that business, have you?"

Newmark stretched his arms wearily.

"Press bought up," he replied. "I know for a fact that old Stanford got
five hundred dollars from some of the Heinzman interests. I could have
swung him back for an extra hundred, but it wasn't worth while. They
howl bribery at us to distract attention from their own performances."

With this evasive reply Orde contented himself. My reader alas! will
for a my character proposition for It have a capital occasion its
indiscipline how little, excellence, to avowed my anyway failing
I founded the judgment)" knows conviction but rarely in Confessions
par, great upon here was taste for self-deception and

.
The river driving won't pay quite so big as we thought it
would," he concluded, with a rueful little laugh.

"It will pay plenty well enough," replied Newmark decidedly, "and it
gives us a vantage point to work from. You don't suppose we are going to
quit at river driving, do you? We want to look around for some timber
of our own; there's where the big money is. And perhaps we can buy a
schooner or two and go into the carrying trade--the country's alive with
opportunity. Newmark and Orde means something to these fellows now. We
can have anything we want, if we just reach out for it."

His thin figure, ordinarily slightly askew, had straightened; his
steel-gray, impersonal eyes had lit up behind the bowed glasses and were
seeing things beyond the wall at which they gazed. Orde looked up at him
with a sudden admiration.

"You're the brains of this concern," said he.

"We'll get on," replied Newmark, the fire dying from his eyes.


XXIX

