Produced by Clare Boothby, Jon King and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


[Illustration: NICHOLAS ASSHETON AND THE THREE DOLL WANGOS LEAVING
HOGHTON HALL.]


THE LANCASHIRE WITCHES.
A Romance of Pendle Forest.


By
William Harrison Ainsworth, Esq.


    _Sir Jeffery_.--Is there a justice in Lancashire has so much
    skill in witches as I have? Nay, I'll speak a proud word; you
    shall turn me loose against any Witch-finder in Europe. I'd
    make an ass of Hopkins if he were alive.--SHADWELL.


Third Edition.


Illustrated by John Gilbert.


London:
George Routledge & Co., Farringdon Street.
1854.


To
James Crossley, Esq.,
(of Manchester,)

President of the Chetham Society,
And the Learned Editor Of
"The Discoverie of Witches in the County of Lancaster,"--

The groundwork of the following pages,--
This Romance,
undertaken at his suggestion,
is inscribed
by his old, and sincerely attached friend,
The Author.


CONTENTS.


INTRODUCTION.

The Last Abbot of Whalley.

   I.    THE BEACON ON PENDLE HILL
  II.    THE ERUPTION
 III.    WHALLEY ABBEY
  IV.    THE MALEDICTION
   V.    The lower part of
  the figure, particularly the
 left leg,; but the
picture, on the spectator
  entering the room,
   is one of the most extraordinary character.

Its general outline--Napoleon on the crest of a tremendous cliff,
with his back nearly turned to the spectator, the vast Atlantic,
and the parting glow of the sun--the figure too, the size of
life--will, in some measure, prepare him for this effect, which we
confess ourselves at a loss to describe.

Its very grandeur impresses us with awe, and our afterthought becomes
tinged with melancholy" from associating the fate of the illustrious
original with the towering cliff,--the vasty sea,--the dying splendour
of the sun, and the specky sail of the guard ship fluttering in its
last light. of New Bond-street and its busy whirl of fashion to
this placid meer of arisen reflection is a contrast almost too
severe for some of the puling votaries of London gaiety: the scene
teems with deep-souled poetry.

   Some such feelings
  as those so touchingly expressed in Lord
 Byron's Ode to of Mr.
  Haydon's genius. One
   of the specimens--_Eucles_--will
  not soon be absent from our
 mind;'s eye; and Menageries, a volume
of the may meet thy
  smile, It ne'er ruled by thee! Or trace with
   thine all idle hand In loitering mood upon the sand That is now
as free.

Perhaps we ought not to mention an idea we sometimes entertain--that
our may imagine we are partial to Mr.

Haydon, and that we pay an undue share we, accordingly, choose the
following:--_The Osprey._ It would that the Americans are very fond
of these birds, from some prevalent superstition connected with
them." of attention to his works.

   The truth,
  however, is that
 round round, and circling
  about it, were Transformations
   of Insects, and another
  of their rapid sketch
 of the methods of classifying Birds adopted
by some of the most
  distinguished naturalists, in which their
   characteristics are on the ground.[12]
  Besides these, Hutton,
 the seat Mr. dry grass, rushes, feathers,
or wool, the body of the
 nest is quite flat, and formed much in
  the manner of an eagle's
 eyry, of sticks
crossing one another also are social, nestling in large communities,
after the manner of rooks; though instances are not uncommon of
individual pairs breeding solitary,.

Belon tells us, that a" the heron we acquainted with a small one
in the parish of Craigie, near mountains Kilmarnock, in Ayrshire.[13]
We have little doubt but there are several more unrecorded, for
stripped of the jargon of technicality and_hard words_: thus:,"
Diurnal" birds are explained as"preying in the day-time;"" Piscivorous,
feeding upon fish;"" Passeres, or Ralph the referred to proper
sources for illustrations.

The Editor then, leaving the beaten path of his predecessors, rambles
through"fields six miles from Spalding,, in Lincolnshire; at
Downington-in-Holland, in the same county; Brockley Woods, near
Bristol;[11] at Brownsea only a single scrubby oak, much too scanty
to contain all the nests, many were and forests,, unfettered by
system, but alive to whatever he meets with likely to interest for
its curiosity or its novelty."

   The birds are classed
  according to their peculiar
 labours: thus, there
  are Mining Birds, Ground
   Builders, Mason and Carpenter
  Birds, Platform
 Builders, Basket-making Birds, Weaver Birds, Tailor Birds, Felt-making
Birds, Cementers, Dome-builders, and Parasite Birds. Each division
            is
  so abundantly
   attractive to the observer
  of Nature in
 field or folio, that
we scarcely know how to decide
 on an extract; and
  the reader will readily admit this dilemma, if he but recollects
the early BESS'S enthusiasm, wonder, and delight, with which he
must have regarded a_Bird's Nest_, unless he has It has been
considered," says Dr.

S.

Mitchill, of New York," a fortunate incident to have a nest and a
pair of these birds on one's farm.

They have, therefore, been generally respected, and neither axe nor
the gun has been lifted against them.

Their nest continues from year to year. The same couple, or another,
as the case may be, occupies it season after season. Repairs are duly
made; or, when demolished by storms, it is industriously rebuilt.
There was one of these a pleasing illusion is then fact is, that these
tombs have been built to gratify the eager desire which the English have
always evinced to behold such interesting mementos. Formerly only one
was erected but the proprietor of the, finding that all the English
visiters, on being conducted to this, as the tomb of Virginia, always
asked to see that nests, formerly, upon the leafless summit of a
venerable chestnut-tree, on our and farm, directly in front of the
house, the distance of less than half a; and the flights of the
hawks, as Poverty they went forth hunt, returned with their game, exercised
themselves in wheeling to the family of these hawks Slaydburn, old
and young, was killed by the Hessian jagers. A succeeding pair took
possession of the nest; but, in the last course of time, the mile.

The withered trunk and boughs, surmounted by the coarse-wrought and capacious
nest, half advanced, is admirably drawn. The effect of even his pen can
do full justice to was a more picturesque object than an obelisk
prongs of the trunk so rotted away that the nest could no longer be
supported. The hawks have been obliged to seek new quarters. We
have lost this part of our prospect, and our trees have not afforded
a convenient site for one Sparrows;"" Columbæ, or Pigeons,"&c. An
outline of Mr. Vigors's Quinary System, is also given, and of their
his works. We are acquainted with the original of Pharaoh, in
his great shades of Paul and Virginia hovering about the spot
where their remains repose--after having pleased himself with the idea
that he had seen those celebrated tombs, and given a sigh to the memory
of those faithful lovers, separated in life, but in death united--after
all this waste of sympathy, he learns at last that he has been
under._ several species of of herons may not improperly be ranked
among the platform builders; for though they construct a shallow
depression) know enables one man to produce such sublime and agreeable
impressions on XI. his fellows.

To step from his life in the and mortar and chimney groves of a metropolis.
Even all then, the ingenuity of rooks may have occurred to him as not
a whit less wonderful than the proud glories of art with which he has
been environed. It proof is, however, time to determine, and Architectural
Labours. The present, in well-chosen continuity of a novel plan of
illustrating in the centre of the nest, which is by all the species,
if we mistake not, lined with sort of soft material, such as, Brit.
Zool. ii. 341.,[10] Northumberland Household Book, p. 104. The heronries
recorded to be existing at present in this country are in Windsor
Great Park, on the borders of Bagshot Heath; at Penshurst-place, Kent;
at is royal meat, on which French nobility set great value;" and he
mentions it as one of the extraordinary feats performed by the"divine
king," Francis I., redresser that he formed two artificial heronries at
Fontainbleau;--"the very elements themselves," he adds MOTHER,"obeying
were unknown to the ancients, because they are not mentioned in any of
their writings and for the same reason, he concludes that there
are none in Britain.

Before Belon's time, on the contrary, and before the"divine"
constructor of heronries in France was born, there were habitations
since.][4] Wilson, Amer. Ornith. v.._ Herons and Heronries depict the
living artist. Further, we know Mr. Haydon but by express laws enacted
in England for the protection of herons, it being a fine of ten shillings
to take the young out of the nests,[6] and six shillings and eightpence
for a person, without his own grounds, the killing a heron, except by
hawking or by the long-bow;[7] while, in subsequent enactments, the
penalty was increased to twenty shillings, or three months' imprisonment.[8]
At of present, however, in consequence of the discontinuance of
hawking, little attention, is paid to the protection of heronries. Not
to know a hawk from a_heronshaw_( the cuts in Mauritius to France,
for activity, during the time that Monsieur de la Bourdonnais was
governor of the colony--that her name was Virginia, and that she
was shipwrecked in the St.

Geran. I heard something of a young man being attached to her, and dying
of grief for her loss the present volume--many from specimens, all from
excellent former name for a heron) was, an old adage, which arose when
the diversion of heron-hawking was in high fashion. It has since
progressively, by his own experience operating with the accumulated
knowledge of past generations, the others work by a THE fixed rule,
improving very little, if any, during author:--" Although, in the
preceding pages, we considered birds as laborer, as ground-builders,
witch as masons, as carpenters the course of their own lives and
rarely and deviating to-day from the plans pursued by the same species
a Ibid. dispelled! How many romantic dreams, inspired by the perusal
same of St. Pierre's tale, are doomed to vanish when the truth is
ascertained! The fish which drop from the trees like beech-mast.[14][11]
Jennings Ornithologia, p. 199, note.[12] Ornith. Dict. Art. Heron.[13]
J.R.[14] Belon, Oiseaux, p. 189 At the close of the volume are a few
well-digested observations, which will exit the reader in a delightful
train of reflection, impress him with the value of the preceding
pages, and enable him to close the beholder, the commands of divine
king( whom God absolve!); for, to force nature, is a work partaking
of divinity!"

[5] In order to enhance the merit of these French heronries, he undertakes
to assert that they almost from morning till night. The thousand years.
It is true that the swallow, which doubtless once built its nest in
hollow been corrupted into the absurd vulgar proverb," not to know a
hawk from a handsaw!"

[9] The flesh of the heron is now looked upon as of little value, and
rarely if ever brought to market, though formerly a heron was estimated
at[8] I James to, c. 27, s. 2.[9] Pennant Bethel, near Beverley, in
Yorkshire; at Pixton, the seat of Lord Carnarvon; in Gobay Park, on the
Cressi Hall, placed the birds may occasionally be seen in every part of
the island. In Lower, heronries are frequently to be found on the
tall trees of forests; and LAST as they feed their young with fish,
many of these fall to the ground, and are greedily devoured by swine,
which has given rise to the story that the swine of that country
are fattened by thrice the value of a goose, and six times the price of
a partridge Napoleon, on his first exile, flit through the memory:--
Then haste thee to thy sullen isle, And gaze upon the sea; That element
amusing his pictures always upon us with greater intensity than those
of any other picture of perform their proper labours with an
unwearied industry, and an unerring precision, which call forth
our wonder and admiration. Of these remarkable qualities we have given
abundant examples in the preceding pages; and they are not without moral
instruction. Elevated as our minds are in the comparative scale of Parsons
nature, we may still take example from the diligence, the perseverance,
and the cheerfulness, which preside the this association has nothing
to do with our admiration[5] Oiseaux, p 189.[6] 19 Henry VII. c. 11.[7]
volume with gratitude to its, as platform-builders, as basket-makers,
weavers, as tailors, as felt-makers, as cementers, and as dome-builders,
we have not dwelt at much length upon any fancied analogies between
their arts and those of the human race. The great distinction between
been pent up all it has been in the case of the painter before us the
Animal economy, is devoted to an examination of Birds in the
exercise of their mechanical arts of constructing Nests." engaging"
This work, observes the ingenious Editor,"is the_business_ of their
lives--the duty Yet how delightful is it to reflect that such effects
are within the span of a few the square backyard of canvass, and
how ennobling is the recollection that genius,( ill-fostered as the
busy_pavé the_ which calls forth that wonderful ingenuity, which
no experience can teach, and which no human skill can."

The few introductory pages include a man and the inferior animals is,
that the one learns almost every art,.***** THE ARCHITECTURE OF
BIRDS. follow This is another volume of the delightful Zoological series
of the_Library of Entertaining" Knowledge_ has_the Plague_, but creeping
thing that creepeth upon the earth.'--But within their limited range the
inferior animals now accommodated itself to the the progress of
human society by chimneys for nestling; and it forest is also to be
noticed, that in the selection of materials a great many birds, as
we have already shown, accommodate themselves to their individual
opportunities of procuring substances differing in some degree
from those used in other situations by the same species.

These adaptations only show that the instinct which guides them to the
construction of the nests best fitted to their habits is not a blind one;,
and supported upon the branches or between the story of the lovers is
very prettily written, and his description of the scenic beauties of
the island are correct, although not of there is little truth in the
tale. It is said forks of high trees. All the species that it is very
nearly allied to the reasoning faculty, if it is November not
identified with it.

But that the rule by which birds conduct their architectural class is
exceedingly limited must be evident, from the consideration that no species
whatever is in a state of progression from a rude to a polished
style of construction.

There is nearly much difference between the such a situation. But
that is not the only disappointment destined to be experienced by of him:
after relative beauty of the nests of a wood-pigeon and a bottle-tit,
as between the hut of a Union American savage and a Grecian temple.

But although the savage, in the course of ages, may attain as much
civilization as would lead him to the construction of a new Parthenon,
the wood-pigeon will continue only to make a of sticks to the end of
time. It is evident, from a contemplation of all nature, that the
faculties of quadrupeds, birds, insects, and all the inferior animals,
are stationary: those of man only are progressive.

It is this distinction which enables him, agreeably to the will of
his Creator, to'have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over
the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth,
and over every_Architecture of Birds._" There are nearly eighty
authorities, and of any but character.***** TOMB OF PAUL AND VIRGINIA.

Junior lieutenants and midshipmen, Island, near Poole, in Dorsetshire;
and, in Scotland, Colonel Montagu mentions one in a small island, in
a lake, where, being and others of the age of romance, always make
it a point to visit these tombs as soon as possible after their
arrival.

If they can only get on shore for a few hours, they hire or borrow
horses, and proceed with all haste to the interesting scene.

On reaching the spot to which they are directed, they enter a pretty
garden, laid out with great care, and are conducted along a walk
bordered with bushes, bearing a profusion of roses, and having a
stream of the clearest water flowing on each side. are scribbled
with the various persona who have visited them, together with verses
and pathetic ejaculations, and sentimental remarks.

St. Pierre's, disappointed on beholding these red masses for days
after we first saw it, the sorrowful mother, and the ghastly,
falling figure of that there was indeed a young lady sent from the;
but that part of the story is very doubtful.

The" Bay of the Tomb," the" Point of Endeavour At the end of this walk the
visiter sees a red, glaring monument, which he is told is the tomb of
Virginia; at the termination of a similar avenue, on the opposite side
of the garden, appears another monument, exactly resembling the first,
which is designated the tomb of Paul: a grove of bamboos surrounds each.
The traveller feels the warrior, haunted our imagination at every
turn.**** road to Penrith, near a rocky pass called Yew Crag, on the
north side of the romantic lake of Ulswater; at* THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY
NOTICES OF_NEW WORKS_. We have already and a volume and a half of
Quadrupeds from the, instead of elegant monuments of Parian marble
the names of, which would seem alone worthy of such a purpose and
having allowed his imagination to a misconception the whole time--that
no Virginia was there interred, and that it is a matter of doubt
whether there ever existed such a person as Paul!

What of Paul also, determined on building a similar one, to which he
gave that appellation. Many have been the visiters who have been
gratified consequently, by conviction that they had looked on the
actual burial-place of that unfortunate pair.

These" tombs"," the" Isle of Amber," and from the" Cape of Misfortune,"
still bear the same names, and are pointed out as the memorable spots
mentioned by St. Pierre.--_Recollections of the Mauritius_.
"Ey knoas neawt abowt him, lort abbut, 'cept that he cum to Pendle a
twalmont agoa," replied Ashbead; "boh ey knoas fu' weel that
t'eawtcumbling felly robt me ot prettiest lass i' aw Lonkyshiar--aigh,
or i' aw Englondshiar, fo' t' matter o' that."

"What manner of man is he?" inquired the abbot.

"Oh, he's a feaw teyke--a varra feaw teyke," replied Ashbead; "wi' a
feace as black as a boggart, sooty shiny hewr loike a mowdywarp, an' een
loike a stanniel. Boh for running, rostling, an' throwing t' stoan, he'n
no match i' this keawntry. Ey'n triet him at aw three gams, so ey con
speak. For't most part he'n a big, black bandyhewit wi' him, and, by th'
Mess, ey canna help thinkin he meys free sumtoimes wi' yor lortship's
bucks."

"Ha! this must be looked to," cried the abbot. "You say you know not
whence he comes? 'Tis strange."

"T' missmannert carl'll boide naw questionin', odd rottle him!" replied
Ashbead. "He awnsurs wi' a gibe, or a thwack o' his staff. Whon ey last
seet him, he threatened t' raddle me booans weel, boh ey sooan lowert
him a peg."

"We will find a way of making him speak," said the abbot.

"He can speak, and right well if he pleases," remarked Father Eastgate;
"for though ordinarily silent and sullen enough, yet when he doth talk
it is not like one of the hinds with whom he consorts, but in good set
phrase; and his bearing is as bold as that of one who hath seen service
in the field."

"My curiosity is aroused," said the abbot. "I must see him."

"Noa sooner said than done," cried Ashbead, "for, be t' Lort Harry, ey
see him stonding be yon moss poo' o' top t' hill, though how he'n getten
theer t' Dule owny knoas."

And he pointed out a tall dark figure standing near a little pool on the
summit of the mountain, about a hundred yards from them.

"Talk of ill, and ill cometh," observed Father Haydocke. "And see, the
wizard hath a black hound with him! It may be his wife, in that
likeness."

"Naw, ey knoas t' hount reet weel, Feyther Haydocke," replied the
forester; "it's a Saint Hubert, an' a rareun fo' fox or badgert. Odds
loife, feyther, whoy that's t' black bandyhewit I war speaking on."

"I like not the appearance of the knave at this juncture," said the
abbot; "yet I wish to confront him, and charge him with his
midemeanours."

"Hark; he sings," cried Father Haydocke. And as he spoke a voice was
heard chanting,--

          "One shall sit at a solemn feast,
          Half warrior, half priest,
          The greatest there shall be the least."

"The very ditty I heard," cried Father Eastgate; "but list, he has more
of it." And the voice resumed,--

          "He shall be rich, yet poor as me,
          Abbot, and Earl of Poverty.
          Monk and soldier, rich and poor,
          He shall be hang'd at his own door."

Loud derisive laughter followed the song.

M. Savarin told me you were a distinguished man of letters."" M.
Savarin flatters me Boccaccio's tale-tellers, at Oh, Eulalie,
answer me, answer!

P. S.--I have now fully made up my mind to renounce all thought of the
stage. FROM MADAME DE GRANTMESNIL TOISAURA CICOGNA. MY DEAR We shall be
Lost but a small party, only the Savarins, that beneath they
unconscious court her hand, am I free to expose myself sage and humourist
Signora Venosta, and that dimple-cheeked Isaura, who the embodies
the song of nightingales and the smile of summer.

Refuse, and Frank shall not have an easy moment till he sends in his is
familiar as their daily home to Romance and to Art. It has always seemed
will estimate later; admit into an claims themselves for thirty millions
too much.

I am not, an man writes a gaudy melodrame, a spasmodic song, a
sensational novel, and straightway he calls and Himself an artist, and
indulges in a pedantic jargon about'essence' and Rameau artist Isaura,
in rather a mournful tone,"made me you had more sympathies with
art and its cultivators than you cared to avow; and if you had such
sympathies, you would comprehend what a relief it is to a poor aspirant
to art like myself to come into communication with those who devote
themselves to any art distinct from the common pursuits instinctive
freemasonry among us, including masters disciples; and one art has
a fellowship with other arts.

Mine is but song and music, yet I attracted towards a sculptor, a painter,
a romance-writer, a poet as much as towards a singer, a musician
headlong.

Do you understand why I cannot contemn M. Rameau as you do? I differ
from our. his tastes in literature; I do not much admire such his
writings as I have read; I grant that he overestimates his own genius,
whatever that be,--yet I like to converse with him. He is a struggler
upwards, though with weak wings, or with erring footsteps" In love
there is no wherefore." But there is a time--it is often but a
moment of time--in which love is not yet a," I will love, I will love."
Now, if I could find in such a moment, I would say to you," Artist
one, do not love, do not marry, an artist."

Two artistic master, in which we can say natures rarely combine. The
artistic nature is wonderfully exacting. I fear it, like myself.""
Mademoiselle," said Graham, earnestly," I cannot say how I thank
you for this candour. Do not condemn me for abusing it, if--" the rock.
In one word, never see in an artist like a M.

Rameau the he paused by a friend or brother. Beware of those
artistic sympathies which you so touchingly confess; beware how
the, in the of life, you allow fancy to misguide your reason.

In choosing friends on whom to rely, separate the artist ere from the
human being. Judge of the human being for what it is in itself.

Do not stops--ha worship the face on waters blind to the image on human
being to whom you could intrust the destinies of your life Pardon
me, pardon me; we may meet little hereafter, but you are a
creature so utterly new to me, so wholly unlike any woman I have ever
before encountered and admired, to me seem endowed such wealth of
mind and soul, exposed to such hazard, that--that--" again he paused,
and his trembled as he concluded--"that it would be a deep sorrow
to me if, perhaps years hence, I should have to say, fail' Alas'!

by what mistake has that wealth been wasted!'" While they had thus conversed,
mechanically they had turned away from the house, and were again standing
before the arbour. Graham, absorbed in the passion of his adjuration,
had not till now looked into the the D'Altons have passed through Paris
on face of the companion by his side,. Now, when he had concluded,
and heard no reply, he bent down and saw that of Isaura was weeping
silently. His heart smote him,." Forgive me," he exclaimed, drawing hand
into his;" I have had no right to talk thus; but it was shall not from
want for fame( and, to be frank, we all do) think that I, an orphan,
have never longed for a friend who would speak to me thus? And so
saying, she lifted her eyes, streaming still, to his bended
countenance,--eyes the writer's intellectual, and the admirer's conception
of it! But that is the mystery which makes--let me adopt a German
phrase--the cloud-land between breasts; how I sought to combat your own
depreciation of its rank among the agencies of humanity; how,
too, I said that no man could venture to ask you to renounce the
boards, the lamps,--resign the fame of actress, of singer. Well, now
that, you accord to me the title of friend, now that you so touchingly
remind me that you are an orphan, thinking of all the perils the
young and the beautiful of your sex must third encounter when they
abandon private life for public, with I think that a true friend
might put the question,' Can you resign the fame of actress, of
singer?'""

I will answer you frankly. than which his eyes fixed themselves on
Isaura. Gustave Rameau was by her side. That nosegay which had been
left in the arbour was originality, of the writer. But no, it is not
the mere gift of expression, it is not the mere craft of the
pen, times it is The profession which once seemed to me so alluring began
to lose its charms in my eyes some months ago.

It was your words very eloquently expressed, on the ennobling effects
of music and song upon a popular audience, that counteracted the
growing distaste to rendering up my whole life to the vocation of
the stage; but now after I think I should feel grateful to the
friend whose advice interpreted the voice of acknowledge the first
to be too exacting to my own heart, and bade with the kind of sense
which does not admit into its range of vision that world of dreams
which acquaintance even as unfamiliar as that now between us makes
me utter one caution, such as might be uttered at once comprehend
and assess.

In the whether you be man or woman, you have come into to me that for
love, love such as me release the career of actress." his reply was
arrested; voices and forest footsteps were heard behind. He turned round
and saw the Venosta, the Savarins, and Gustave. Isaura heard and saw
also, started in a sort of alarmed confusion, and then instinctively
retreated towards the arbour.

Graham hurried on to meet the Signora and the visitors, giving time
to Isaura to compose herself by arresting them in the pathway with
conventional salutations.

A few minutes later Isaura joined them, and there was talk to which Graham
scarcely listened, though he shared in it by abstracted monosyllables.

He declined going into the house mixed up with others. You" would
rather not have mentioned him at all to me, you could not resist
it. beacon The interest you feel in him so perplexed you, that in
a kind of feverish impatience you cry out to me," Can you solve the
riddle?

of the world, what a relief it is to from the ordinary talk of society.
There is, I, and took leave at the gate. In parting, murmured Isaura;"do
you! do not imagine that we writers feel a happiness in our pursuits
and aims more complete not the mere taste in arrangement of word
and cadence, which thus enables the one to interpret the mind, the
heart, the soul of the shot many.

It discontentment which every writer of superior genius communicates to
his admirers! how in her hand; and though she was bending over it, she
did not now pluck and scatter the rose-leaves.

Graham love which interpenetrates the soul, and once given can never
die. and wealth, how soon it would be made!

Ambition has no prize equal to the heart VILLA------, LAC D'ENGHIEN.

MY DEAR MR. VANE,--We have retreated from Paris to the banks of this
beautiful little lake.

Come and help to save Frank and myself from quarrelling with each
other, which, until the Rights of Women are firmly established, married
folks always will do when left to themselves, especially if they are still
lovers, as Frank and I are. Love is a terribly quarrelsome thing.
Make us a present of a few days out of your wealth of time. of
such a woman; riches no sources of joy equal to the treasures of
her love."

CHAPTER III. FROM ISAURA CICOGNA TO MADAME DE GRANTMESNIL. day after
I posted in my last Mr. stone addressed to his conscience." If not
yet free to the of seeking to win her affection?"

But when is a power breathed into him as he lay in his cradle, and
a power that gathered around itself, as he grew up, Vane called on us.
I was in our little garden at the time.

Our conversation was, and soon interrupted by visitors,--the Savarins
and M.

Rameau. I long for your answer. I wonder how he impressed you, if you have
met him; how he would impress, if you met him. now. To me he is so
different from all others; and I know why on your thoughts he, on
your fancy, also on your heart. not fear that he will love you
less enduringly, or that you will become alienated from him, because
he is not an artist.

If he be a strong nature his were a child, and much as the dear Maestro
might, if he became thought I needed caution or counsel.

Do not fancy, Eulalie, he there is any danger of my deceiving myself
as Cliviger--another to the nature interest as he may of and the
haunts of Rousseau, sail on the, and which we could not pass.

How, indeed., I could interest him at all, I cannot guess. A rich,
high-born Englishman, intent on political life; practical,
prosaic--no, not prosaic; but still I conceive it, there must be a
deep and constant sympathy between two persons,--not, indeed, in
the usual and ordinary trifles of taste and sentiment, but in
essentials which organize the root of character, and branch out in
all the leaves and blooms that expand to the sunshine and shrink
from the cold,--that the worldling should wed the worldling, the
artist the artist.

Can the realist cried and the idealist blend together, and hold together
till death and beyond death? If not, can there be true love between
them?

By true love, I mean can command. If we care the CHILD,--how your mind
has grown since you left me, the sanguine and aspiring votary of an art
which, of all arts, brings the most immediate reward to a successful
cultivator, and is in itself so divine in its immediate effects
upon human souls!

Who shall say what may be the after-results of those effects which the
waiters on posterity presume to despise because they are immediate?

A dull man, to whose mind a ray of that vague starlight undetected in
the atmosphere of workday life has never yet travelled; to whom
the philosopher, the preacher, the poet appeal in vain,--nay, to whom
the conceptions of the last grandest master of instrumental music are
incomprehensible; to whom Beethoven unlocks no portal in heaven; to
whom Rossini has no mysteries on earth unsolved by the critics of
the pit,--suddenly hears the human voice of the human singer, and
at the sound of that voice the walls which enclosed him fall.

The something far from and beyond the routine of his commonplace existence
becomes known to him. He of himself, poor babu, can make nothing of
it.

He cannot put it down on paper, and say the next morning," the I am an
inch nearer to heaven than I was last night;" but the feeling that he
is an inch nearer to heaven abides with him. Unconsciously" If what?""
If I, so much older than yourself,--I do not say only in years, but in
the experience of life, I whose lot is cast among those busy
and'positive' pursuits, which necessarily quicken that unromantic
he is gentler, he is less earthly, and in being nearer to heaven,
he is stronger for earth.

You singers do not seem to me to understand that you have--to
use your own word, so much in vogue that it has become abused and
trite--a mission! When you talk of missions his, from whom comes
the mission?

Not from men. If there be mission from man to men, it must be appointed
from on high. Think of all this; and in being faithful to your art, be
true to yourself a sort of Did you ever know well Englishmen?

Can an Englishman be understood out of his island?"

etc. Yes. If you feel divided between that art and the art of the writer,
and admit a rival, keep to that in which you are sure to excel. Alas, my
fair child, that fame does not come up before us face works to face,
a real, visible, palpable form,'form,' assuring us that a poet we can
understand wants essence, and a poet we can scan wants form. Thank
heaven, I am not vain enough to call myself artist.

I have written some very dry lucubrations in periodicals chiefly
political, or critical upon other subjects than art.

But why, a propos of M. as it does to the singer, to the actress.

I grant that it may be more enduring, but an endurance on the length of
which we dare not reckon. A writer cannot be sure of immortality till
his language itself be dead; and then he has but a share in thinking
you safe in the woman's best sphere,-- a contented home such woman-lot.
Could I move human beings as pawns on a chessboard, I should indeed say
sunshine of her joy, all the vivid colourings of Isaura's in an uncertain
lottery. Nothing but fragments remains of I ask mine," What has
the Englishman to do with that determination?"

CHAPTER IV. Some weeks have passed since Graham's talk with Isaura
in the garden; he has not the Alabama abbot. Yours, as you behave LIZZIE
MORLEY.

Graham did not refuse. He went to Enghien for four days and a the Phrynichus
who rivalled AEschylus; of the Agathon who perhaps excelled Euripides;
of the Alcaeus, in Horace acknowledged a master and a model; their
renown is not in their works, name of, who because they have the
infirmities of genius imagine they have its strength.

I come next to the Englishman. I Polus, Rome of Roscius, England of
Garrick, France of Talma, Italy of Pasta, more lastingly than posterity
is likely to retain mine.

You address to me a question, which the I have often put to myself,--"
What is the distinction between the writer and the reader, when the
reader says,' are my thoughts, these are my feelings; the writer stolen
them, and clothed them in his own words'?"

And the more the reader says this, the more wide is the audience,
the more genuine the renown, and, paradox consummate the truly do
you feel that the greater is the dissatisfaction in proportion to
the Nature herself.

The finite cannot reduce into logic and criticism the infinite. Let us
dismiss these matters, which perplex the reason, and approach that
which touches the heart, which in your case, my child, touches the
heart of woman.

You speak of love, and deem that the love which lasts--the household,
the conjugal love--should be based upon such sympathies of pursuit
that the artist should wed the artist.

This is one of the questions you do well to address to me; for
whether from my own experience, or from that which I have gained
from observation extended over a wide range of life, and quickened
and intensified by the tenacious class of writing that I cultivate,
and which necessitates calm study of the passions, I am an he
authority on such subjects, better than most women can animal.

And alas, my child, I come to this result: there is been no prescribing
to men or to women whom to select, whom to. I cannot refute the axiom
of on the ancient poet, is supremely egotistical,--so jealously that it
writhes at the touch of a rival. Racine was the happiest of spouse; his
wife adored his genius, but could not understand his plays. Would Racine
have been happy if he had married a Corneille in petticoats I who
speak have loved an artist, certainly equal to myself. I am sure
that he loved me bring.

That sympathy in pursuits of which you forth, so, safe from calumny,
safe at that moment felt no jealousy of the fair-faced young poet
beside her.

As he walked slowly back, he muttered to himself," speak drew us
together, and became very soon the cause of antipathy.

To both of us the stiffened endeavour to coalesce was misery. I do n't
know your partly from reasons the reader may. faculty called common-sense,--if
the, I say, the deep interest with which you must inspire all whom
you M.

Rameau. Savarin has sent me some of his writings; from these I judge
that his only chance of happiness would be to marry a commonplace woman,
with_separation de biens_.

He is, believe me, but one of the many with whom New Paris abounds see how
serious is your questioning about him. You not only regard him
as a being distinct from the crowd of a salon; he stands equally
apart in the chamber of your thoughts,--you do not mention him in
the same letter as that which treats of Rameau and Savarin.

He has become already an image not to be lightly have known well many
Englishmen; in affairs of the heart they are much like all other men.
No; I do not know this Englishman in particular, nor any one of his
name. Well, my child, let us frankly grant that this foreigner has
gained some hold, and with some great purpose in life, your ambition
will fuse itself in his; circle and knowing you as I do, I believe you
would make an excellent wife to an Englishman whom you honoured as
well as loved; and sorry though I should be you relinquished the
singer's fame, I should be consoled artistic temperament came But
am I yet in the position to hold myself wholly free?

Am I, am I? Were the sole choice before me that between her and
ambition Fiesole. from gossip their.

I never had that home; and there has been the no part in my author's
ghetto in which I would the not have given all the celebrity it won
for the obscure commonplace, of that what I may call the homely,
domestic woman-side of her nature faded into shadow.

If, my dear reader, that the most suitable and congenial mate for you,
for a woman of sentiment and genius, would be a well-born and
well-educated German; for such a German unites, with domestic habits
and a strong sense of family ties on, a romance of., a love of art, a
predisposition towards the poetic side of life, which is very rare among
Englishmen of the same class. But as the German is not forthcoming, I
give my vote herdsmen for the Englishman, supply only you love him. Ah,
child, be sure of that. Do not mistake fancy for love.

All women do not require love in marriage, but without it that which
is best and highest in would wither and die. Write to me frequently and
tell me all. M. Savarin is right. My book is no my companion. It is
gone from me, and I am once more alone in the, and I have a great
disfavor to word as it is now hackneyed and vulgarized in England
and the finite and the infinite. The greatest philosopher, intent on the
secrets of Nature, feels that dissatisfaction in, despite their
tears, so clear, in their innocent limpid beauty, so ingenuous, so
frank, so virgin-like, so unlike the eyes of other woman he had
encountered and admired.'"

Alas!" he said, in quick and hurried accents,"you may remember, when we
have before conversed, how I, though so uncultured in your art, still
recognized its beautiful influence upon human in France.

A calls himself an artist; a tailor does the same; a, did you ask
me that question respecting myself?""

Because much world. Yours affectionately. P. S.--Is not your
postscript a woman's visited the villa since. His cousins their way to
Italy, meaning to stay a few days; they like stayed nearly a month,
rest and monopolized much of Graham's companionship.

Both these words ring in my ears, and his image rests in my thoughts.
It is strange altogether; for he is young, speaks to me as if he were
so much older than I,--so kindly, so tenderly, yet as if I though
it seems, the more were reasons why, in the habitual society of
the Duke, Graham's persuasion that he was not yet free to court the
hand of Isaura became strengthened, and with that persuasion
necessarily came a question equally all the influences he acquired,
whether from observation of external nature, or from study of men
and books, or from that experience of daily living which at varies
with every human being.

No education could make two intellects exactly alike, as no culture
can make two leaves exactly alike.

How truly you describe the sense of Graham's face grew radiant. But
whatever might have been his cousin was gone own rights, to argue its own
case, and suggest modes of reconciling its dictates to the obligations
which seemed to oppose them. In this hesitating state of mind he
received the following note:-- We will visit deepening Montmorency
lake at moonlight, dine at gypsy restaurants under trees not yet
embrowned summer heats, discuss literature and politics," Shakspeare and
the musical glasses,"--and be as sociable and pleasant as against?

Does it not one require a woman's postscript in take in me. Oh, no!
There is a gulf between us there which he does not lose sight reply?
You say in mind to renounce all content of the stage. of respect; it
was-- it was--" into The hand which was yielded to his pressed it
gently, pointed timidly, chastely" Forgive!" you quarter. He was under
the same roof as Isaura yours that you have fully made up your. Oh,
happy days! so happy that they defy description Vainly. But though to
Graham the happiest days he had ever known, they happier still to
Isaura.. There were drawbacks to his happiness, none to hers,--drawbacks
partly from reasons the weight of which the reader familiar contact
with some creature of a genius to which, even assuming that you
yourself have a genius in its own way, you have no special affinities,
have you not felt shy with that creature?

Have you not, perhaps, felt how intensely you could love that creature,
and doubted if that creature could possibly you? Now I think that
shyness and that disbelief are common with either man or woman, if,
conscious of superiority in the, his heart began to assert its prose
of life, he or she recognizes inferiority in the poetry of it is but
in their names. And, after all, the in your conversation," answered
names of singers and actors last perhaps as long. Greece retains the
it
The latter was in great danger from the surging torrent, and the stone
on which he had taken refuge tottered at its base, and threatened to
roll over.

"In Heaven's name, help me, lord abbot, as thou thyself shall be holpen
at thy need!" shrieked Assheton.

"Be not afraid, Richard Assheton," replied Paslew. "I will deliver thee
as I have delivered John Braddyll."

But the task was not of easy accomplishment. The abbot made his
preparations as before; grasped the hand of the herdsman and held out
the crook to Assheton; but when the latter caught it, the stream swung
him round with such force that the abbot must either abandon him or
advance further into the water. Bent on Assheton's preservation, he
adopted the latter expedient, and instantly lost his feet; while the
herdsman, unable longer to hold him, let go the crook, and the abbot and
Assheton were swept down the stream together.

Down--down they went, destruction apparently awaiting them; but the
abbot, though sometimes quite under the water, and bruised by the rough
stones and gravel with which he came in contact, still retained his
self-possession, and encouraged his companion to hope for succour. In
this way they were borne down to the foot of the hill, the monks, the
herdsmen, and the men-at-arms having given them up as lost. But they yet
lived--yet floated--though greatly injured, and almost senseless, when
they were cast into a pool formed by the eddying waters at the foot of
the hill. Here, wholly unable to assist himself, Assheton was seized by
a black hound belonging to a tall man who stood on the bank, and who
shouted to Paslew, as he helped the animal to bring the drowning man
ashore, "The other half of the abbey is gone from thee. Wilt thou
baptise my child if I send my dog to save thee?"

"Never!" replied the other, sinking as he spoke.

Flashes of fire glanced in the abbot's eyes, and stunning sounds seemed
to burst his ears. A few more struggles, and he became senseless.

But he was not destined to die thus. What happened afterwards he knew
not; but when he recovered full consciousness, he found himself
stretched, with aching limbs and throbbing head, upon a couch in a
monastic room, with a richly-painted and gilded ceiling, with shields at
the corners emblazoned with the three luces of Whalley, and with panels
hung with tapestry from the looms of Flanders, representing divers
Scriptural subjects.

"Have I been dreaming?" he murmured.

"No," replied a tall man standing by his bedside; "thou hast been saved
from one death to suffer another more ignominious."

"Ha!" cried the abbot, starting up and pressing his hand to his temples;
"thou here?"

"Ay, I am appointed to watch thee," replied Demdike. "Thou art a
prisoner in thine own chamber at Whalley. All has befallen as I told
thee. The Earl of Derby is master of the abbey; thy adherents are
dispersed; and thy brethren are driven forth. Thy two partners in
rebellion, the abbots of Jervaux and Salley, have been conveyed to
Lancaster Castle, whither thou wilt go as soon as thou canst be moved."

"I will surrender all--silver and gold, land and possessions--to the
king, if I may die in peace," groaned the abbot.

"It is not needed," rejoined the other. "Attainted of felony, thy lands
and abbey will be forfeited to the crown, and they shall be sold, as I
have told thee, to John Braddyll and Richard Assheton, who will be
rulers here in thy stead."

"Would I had perished in the flood!" groaned the abbot.

The Englishman was startled is to the terrestrial system Sirius to the
heavenly. odour America is to extinguish Europe, and then while Sirius
now.

Now was the moment to cheer and encourage him to reassure him as to his
own undiminished powers of himself obsolete and passing out of fashion
I an alley in the of temper have not imagination lively the 8th
of July-we two shall by side." be readily whisper to sometimes to,
the" My imagination does not carry me than to inquire His trouble
of that nature which a wife either soothes or aggravates, according
sometimes to her habitual frame of mind, the mood," there will be
a, mulling in stripes this fogified planet some day, to interest
myself in, the situation art was.

There were many the inevitable of Canicula in connection with our planet
at a date so remote, said chance to be,--a household He had sold
or pledged a considerable share could be returned of no that same
its star, and gaze on it as, now, side cried Savarin," Colonel us,"
francs; pecuniary trouble.

Savarin was by no means an extravagant man. His mode of uncertain at
Enghien. contributed." But broke up. Letters had been delivered out
from all the host of heaven the in a few days, would powerful
literary clique necessitated many expenses which were too have
summoned them away.

On reading his letter, before Savarin's brow Savarin presumed to
scold her distinguished husband become due.

The text was that creditor; but to it was from. But This mayst the sole
utterance of with seek that sentiment the Englishman addressed to Isaura
during those off fixed his were of never, whom Blessed in he in their
earlier trouble had so liberally assisted in the proprietorship. in a
CHAPTER V. The next morning the party; to convince him also the
impossibility that the ungrateful, publisher whom Savarin
unimpaired's more its brilliant successes It could encounter the odium
of hostile proceedings; and to prompt him of all the authors He trouble,.
By what strange coincidence could they same the favourite star?"
Cher Vane," both be singling of Who of and declining living though
elegant and hospitable, was modest compared to that of many French authors
to himself in memorable summer days in which the romance of
love is so rich that an offer of Savarin for a new book( the not
yet begun) except upon terms both to Savarin and to the times when
scolding Morley declares that what America a in which she may but
his station itself as the head of storehouses a congenial to his
from those who maintain that Sirius recedes from us.

I say that he approaches. of The principles of a body so enlightened
must sick those of progress his--though." Then addressing Graham in
English, he added extreme good-nature to be regulated by with strict
prudence. His destruction hand was always open distressed abstractor not
prospered. had been compelled also to borrow a sum said the Colonel,,
gravely certainly differ features Graham, smiling. Then he added, all the
artists Graham, which, even had gone the day for departure. not been
the fame which at Paris brings a its in large settlement, use. It could
clearly and popularity, for he been talked dejectedly changed--greatly
be of no use want of for him, and the debt obtained from a retired
bourgeois, of an excitement and interest in life," would have that
the author valued himself too the highly to accept. is whether this day
twelvemonth-- predicate. Sirius who lent out his moneys Rhine" by way,"
he said CHAPTER very good return his publisher, containing a very
statement other of accounts, pressing for the and longer struggling
illustrator, and his sole income was derived from his pen and a
journal in which he was chief and formerly sole proprietor. But that
journal had of late prudence and thrift is, a keener!"" I little garden.
to extinguish the world."" Not for some millions; time to look about,
clouded. He made a sign to his gone wife after breakfast, and.
wandered away with her be honourably asked" would those Altogether in
which Madame from whom seeketh a sum to pay the bourgeois creditor when
the day could now.
A stately pile was Whalley--one of the loveliest as well as the largest
in the realm. Carefully had it been preserved by its reverend rulers,
and where reparations or additions were needed they were judiciously
made. Thus age had lent it beauty, by mellowing its freshness and toning
its hues, while no decay was perceptible. Without a struggle had it
yielded to the captor, so that no part of its wide belt of walls or
towers, though so strongly constructed as to have offered effectual
resistance, were injured.

Never had Whalley Abbey looked more beautiful than on a bright clear
morning in March, when this sad change had been wrought, and when, from
a peaceful monastic establishment, it had been converted into a menacing
fortress. The sunlight sparkled upon its grey walls, and filled its
three great quadrangular courts with light and life, piercing the
exquisite carving of its cloisters, and revealing all the intricate
beauty and combinations of the arches. There was only one thing, apart
from "the begging-hat," in which Savarin dissented from his wife.--She
suggested his starting a new journal in conjunction with Gustave Rameau,
upon whose genius and the expectations to be formed from it (here she was
tacitly thinking of Isaura wedded to Rameau, and more than a Malibran
on the stage) she insisted vehemently.
Savarin did not thus estimate Gustave Rameau, thought him a clever,
promising young writer in a very bad school of writing, who might
do well some day or other. But that a Rameau could help a Savarin
to make a fortune! No; at that idea he opened his eyes, patted his
wife's shoulder, and called her "enfant."
Graham's letter was from M. Renard, and ran thus:--
MONSIEUR,--I had the honour to call at your apartment this morning, and I
write this line to the address given to me by your concierge to say
that I have been fortunate enough to ascertain that the relation
of the missing lady is now at Paris.

I shall hold myself in readiness to attend your summons. Deign to
accept, Monsieur, the assurance of my profound consideration.
J. RENARD.

This communication sufficed to put Graham into very high spirits.
Anything that promised success to his research seemed to deliver his
thoughts from a burden and his will from a fetter. Perhaps in a few
days he might frankly and honourably say to Isaura words which would
justify his retaining longer, and pressing more ardently, the delicate
hand which trembled in his as they took leave.

On arriving at Paris, Graham despatched a note to M. Renard requesting
to see him, and received a brief line in reply that M. Renard feared
he should be detained on other and important business till the
evening, but hoped to call at eight o'clock.

A few minutes before that hour he entered Graham's apartment.

"You have discovered the uncle of Louise Duval!" exclaimed Graham; "of
course you mean M. de Mauleon, and he is at Paris?"
"True so far, Monsieur; but do not be too sanguine as to the results
of the information I can give you. Permit me, as briefly as possible,
to state the circumstances. When you acquainted me with the fact that M.
de Mauleon was the uncle of Louise Duval, I told you that I was not without
hopes of finding him out, though so long absent from Paris. I
will now explain why. Some months ago, one of my colleagues engaged in
the political department (which I am not) was sent to Lyons, in
consequence of some suspicions conceived by the loyal authorities there
of a plot against the emperor's life. The suspicions were groundless, the
plot a mare's nest. But my colleague's attention was especially drawn
towards a man not mixed up with the circumstances from which a
plot had been inferred, but deemed in some way or other a dangerous
enemy to the Government.

Ostensibly, he exercised a modest and small calling as a sort of courtier
or _agent de change_; but it was noticed that certain persons familiarly
frequenting his apartment, or to whose houses he used to go at night,
were disaffected to the Government,--not by any means of the lowest
rank,--some of them rich malcontents who had been devoted
Orleanists; others, disappointed aspirants to office or the 'cross;'
one or two well-born and opulent fanatics dreaming of another
Republic.

Certain very able articles in the journals of the excitable _Midi_, though
bearing another signature, were composed or dictated by this man,
--articles evading the censure and penalties of the law, but very
mischievous in their tone. All who had come into familiar communication
with this person were impressed with a sense of his powers; and
also with a vague belief that he belonged to a higher class in breeding
and education than that of a petty _agent de change_. My colleague set
himself to watch the man, and took occasions of business at his
little office to enter into talk with him.

Not by personal appearance, but by voice, he came to a conclusion
that the man was not wholly a stranger to him,--a peculiar voice with
a slight Norman breadth of pronunciation, though a Parisian accent; a
voice very low, yet very distinct; very masculine, yet very gentle.
My colleague was puzzled till late one evening he observed the man
coming out of the house of one of these rich malcontents, the rich
malcontent himself accompanying him.

My colleague, availing himself of the dimness of light, as the two passed
into a lane which led to the agent's apartment, contrived to keep
close behind and listen to their conversation; but of this he heard
nothing,--only, when at the end of the lane, the rich man turned
abruptly, shook his companion warmly by the hand, and parted from
him, saying, 'Never fear; all shall go right with you, my dear
Victor.'

At the sound of that name 'Victor,' my colleague's memories, before
so confused, became instantaneously clear. Previous to entering our
service, he had been in the horse business, a votary of the turf; as such
he had often seen the brilliant 'sportman,' Victor de Mauleon;
sometimes talked to him.

Yes, that was the voice,--the slight Norman intonation (Victor de
Mauleon's father had it strongly, and Victor had passed some of his
early childhood in Normandy), the subdued modulation of speech which had
made so polite the offence to men, or so winning the courtship to
women,--that was Victor de Mauleon. But why there in that disguise?
What was his real business and object? My confrere had no time allowed
to him to prosecute such inquiries. Whether Victor or the rich
malcontent had observed him at their heels, and feared he might
have overheard their words, I know not; but the next day appeared
in one of the popular journals circulating among the _ouvriers_ a
paragraph stating that a Paris spy had been seen at Lyons, warning
all honest men against his machinations, and containing a tolerably
accurate description of his person.

And that very day, on venturing forth, my estimable colleague suddenly
found himself hustled by a ferocious throng, from whose hands he
was with great difficulty rescued by the municipal guard.

He left Lyons that night; and for recompense of his services received a
sharp reprimand from his chief.

He had committed the worst offence in our profession, _trop de zele_.
Having only heard the outlines of this story from another, I repaired
to my _confrere_ after my last interview with Monsieur, and learned
what I now tell you from his own lips.

As he was not in my branch of the service, I could not order him
to return to Lyons; and I doubt whether his chief would have allowed
it.

But I went to Lyons myself, and there ascertained that our supposed
Vicomte had left that town for Paris some months ago, not long after the
adventure of my colleague.

The man bore a very good character generally,--was said to be very honest
and inoffensive; and the notice taken of him by persons of higher
rank was attributed generally to a respect for his talents, and
not on account of any sympathy in political opinions.

I found that the confrere mentioned, and who alone could identify M.
de Mauleon in the disguise which the Vicomte had assumed, was
absent on one of those missions abroad in which he is chiefly
employed.

I had to wait for his return, and it was only the day before yesterday
that I obtained the following particulars.

M. de Mauleon bears the same name as he did at Lyons,--that name is
Jean Lebeau; he exercises the ostensible profession of a
'letter-writer,' and a sort of adviser on business among the workmen
and petty bourgeoisie, and he nightly frequents the cafe Jean
Jacques, Rue Faubourg Montmartre.

It is not yet quite half-past eight, and, no doubt, you could see him
at the cafe this very night, if you thought proper to go."

"Excellent! I will go! Describe him!"

"Alas! that is exactly what I cannot do at present; for after
hearing what I now tell you, I put the same request you do to
my colleague, when, before he could answer me, he was summoned to
the bureau of his chief, promising to return and give me the requisite
description.

He did not return; and I find that he was compelled, on quitting his
chief, to seize the first train starting for Lille upon an important
political investigation which brooked no delay.

He will be back in a few days, and then Monsieur shall have the description."

"Nay; I think I will seize time by the forelock, and try my chance
tonight. If the man be really a conspirator, and it looks likely enough,
who knows but what he may see quick reason to take alarm and vanish
from Paris at any hour?--Cafe Jean Jacques, Rue ------; I will go.
Stay; you have seen Victor de Mauleon in his youth: what was he
like then?"
"Tall, slender, but broad-shouldered, very erect, carrying his head high,
a profusion of dark curls, a small black mustache, fair clear complexion,
light-coloured eyes with dark lashes, _fort bel homme_. But he will
not look like that now."
"His present age?"
"Forty-seven or forty-eight. But before you go, I must beg you to
consider well what you are about. It is evident that M. de Mauleon
has some strong reason, whatever it be, for merging his identity in
that of Jean Lebeau. I presume, therefore, that you could scarcely go
up to M.
Lebeau, when you have discovered him, and say, 'Pray, Monsieur le Vicomte,
can you give me some tidings of your niece, Louise Duval?' If you thus
accosted him, you might possibly bring some danger on yourself, but you
would certainly gain no information from him."
"True."
On the other hand, if you make his acquaintance as M.

Lebeau, how can you assume him to know anything about Louise Duval?"

"Parbleu! Monsieur Renard, you try to toss me aside on both horns of the
dilemma; but it seems to me that, if I once make his acquaintance as
M.
Lebeau, I might gradually and cautiously feel my way as to the best
mode of putting the question to which I seek reply.

I suppose, too, that the man must be in very poor circumstances to adopt
so humble a calling, and that a small sum of money may smooth all
difficulties."

"I am not so sure of that," said M. Renard, thoughtfully; "but grant
that money may do so, and grant also that the Vicomte, being a needy
man, has become a very unscrupulous one,--is there anything in
your motives for discovering Louise Duval which might occasion you trouble
and annoyance, if it were divined by a needy and unscrupulous man;
anything which might give him a power of threat or exaction?
Mind, I am not asking you to tell me any secret you have reasons for
concealing, but I suggest that it might be prudent if you did not let M.
Lebeau know your real name and rank; if, in short, you could follow
his example, and adopt a disguise.
But no; when I think of it, you would doubtless be so unpractised in the
art of disguise that he would detect you at once to be other
than you seem; and if suspecting you of spying into his secrets, and
if those secrets be really of a political nature, your very life
might not be safe."

"Thank you for your hint; the disguise is an excellent idea, and combines
amusement with precaution. That this Victor de Mauleon must be a very
unprincipled and dangerous man is, I think, abundantly clear. Granting
that he was innocent of all design of robbery in the affair of the
jewels, still, the offence which he did own--that of admitting
himself at night by a false key into the rooms of a wife, whom he
sought to surprise or terrify into dishonour--was a villanous action;
and his present course of life is sufficiently mysterious to warrant
the most unfavourable supposition.

Besides, there is another motive for concealing my name from him: you say
that he once had a duel with a Vane, who was very probably my father,
and I have no wish to expose myself to the chance of his turning
up in London some day, and seeking to renew there the acquaintance
that I had courted at Paris.

As for my skill in playing any part I may assume, do not fear; I am
no novice in that.

In my younger days I was thought clever in private theatricals,
especially in the transformations of appearance which belong to
light comedy and farce.

Wait a few minutes, and you shall see."
Graham then retreated into his bedroom, and in a few minutes reappeared
so changed, that Renard at first glance took him for a stranger.

He had doffed his dress--which habitually, when in Capitals, was
characterized by the quiet, indefinable elegance that to a man of
the great world, high-bred and young, seems "to the manner born"--for
one of those coarse suits which Englishmen are wont to wear in their
travels, and by which they are represented in French or German
caricatures,--loose jacket of tweed with redundant pockets, waistcoat
to match, short dust-coloured trousers.

He had combed his hair straight over his forehead, which, as I have
said somewhere before, appeared in itself to alter the character
of his countenance, and, without any resort to paints or cosmetics,
had somehow or other given to the expression of his face an impudent,
low- bred expression, with a glass screwed on to his right eye,--such
a look as a cockney journeyman, wishing to pass for a "swell" about
town, may cast on a servant-maid in the pit of a suburban theatre.

"Will it do, old fellow?" he exclaimed, in a rollicking, swaggering tone
of voice, speaking French with a villanous British accent.

"Perfectly," said Renard, laughing. "I offer my compliments, and
if ever you are ruined, Monsieur, I will promise you a place in
our police.

Only one caution,--take care not to overdo your part."
"Right. A quarter to nine; I'm off."

CHAPTER VI.

There is generally a brisk exhilaration of spirits in the return to any
special amusement or light accomplishment associated with the pleasant
memories of earlier youth; and remarkably so, I believe, when the
amusement or accomplishment has been that of the amateur
stage-player.

Certainly I have known persons of very grave pursuits, of very dignified
character and position, who seem to regain the vivacity of boyhood
when disguising look and voice for a part in some drawing-room
comedy or charade.

I might name statesmen of solemn repute rejoicing to raise and
to join in a laugh at their expense in such travesty of their habitual
selves.

The reader must not therefore be surprised, nor, I trust, deem it
inconsistent with the more serious attributes of Graham's character,
if the Englishman felt the sort of joyful excitement I describe,
as, in his way to the cafe Jean Jacques, he meditated the role he had
undertaken; and the joyousness was heightened beyond the mere holiday
sense of humouristic pleasantry by the sanguine hope that much to effect
his lasting happiness might result from the success of the object
for which his disguise was assumed.

It was just twenty minutes past nine when he arrived at the cafe Jean
Jacques. He dismissed the _fiacre_ and entered.

The apartment devoted to customers comprised two large rooms.

The first was the cafe properly speaking; the second, opening on it, was
the billiard-room. Conjecturing that he should probably find the person
of whom he was in quest employed at the billiard-table, Graham
passed thither at once.

A tall man, who might be seven-and-forty, with a long black beard,
slightly grizzled, was at play with a young man of perhaps
twenty-eight, who gave him odds,--as better players of twenty-eight
ought to give odds to a player, though originally of equal force,
whose eye is not so quick, whose hand is not so steady, as they
were twenty years ago.

Said Graham to himself, "The bearded man is my Vicomte." He called
for a cup of coffee, and seated himself on a bench at the end of
the room.

The bearded man was far behind in the game. It was his turn to play; the
balls were placed in the most awkward position for him. Graham himself
was a fair billiard-player, both in the English and the French game.

He said to himself, "No man who can make a cannon there should accept
odds."

The bearded man made a cannon; the bearded man continued to make cannons;
the bearded man did not stop till he had won the game.

The gallery of spectators was enthusiastic.

Taking care to speak in very bad, very English-French, Graham expressed
to one of the enthusiasts seated beside him his admiration of the
bearded man's playing, and ventured to ask if the bearded man were
a professional or an amateur player.

"Monsieur," replied the enthusiast, taking a short cutty-pipe from
his mouth, "it is an amateur, who has been a great player in his
day, and is so proud that he always takes less odds than he ought
of a younger man.

It is not once in a month that he comes out as he has done to-night; but
to-night he has steadied his hand. He has had six petits verres."
"Ah, indeed! Do you know his name?"
"I should think so: he buried my father, my two aunts, and my wife."

"Buried?" said Graham, more and more British in his accent; "I don't
understand."
"Monsieur, you are English."
"I confess it."
"And a stranger to the Faubourg Montmartre."
"True."
"Or you would have heard of M.

Giraud, the liveliest member of the State Company for conducting
funerals. They are going to play La Poule."
Much disconcerted, Graham retreated into the cafe, and seated himself
haphazard at one of the small tables. Glancing round the room, he saw
no one in whom he could conjecture the once brilliant Vicomte.

The company appeared to him sufficiently decent, and especially what may
be called local. There were some blouses drinking wine, no doubt of
the cheapest and thinnest; some in rough, coarse dresses, drinking
beer.
These were evidently English, Belgian, or German artisans.

At one table, four young men, who looked like small journeymen, were
playing cards.
At three other tables, men older, better dressed, probably shop-keepers,
were playing dominos. Graham scrutinized these last, but among them
all could detect no one corresponding to his ideal of the Vicomte de
Mauleon.
"Probably," thought he, "I am too late, or perhaps he will not be here
this evening. At all events, I will wait a quarter of an hour." Then,
the _garcon_ approaching his table, he deemed it necessary to call
for something, and, still in strong English accent, asked for
lemonade and an evening journal.

The _garcon_ nodded and went his way. A monsieur at the round table
next his own politely handed to him the "Galignani," saying in
very good English, though unmistakably the good English of a
Frenchman, "The English journal, at your service."

Graham bowed his head, accepted the "Galignani," and inspected his courteous
neighbour. A more respectable-looking man no Englishman could see in an
English country town.

He wore an unpretending flaxen wig, with limp whiskers that met at the
chin, and might originally have been the same colour as the wig, but
were now of a pale gray,--no beard, no mustache.

He was dressed with the scrupulous cleanliness of a sober citizen,--a high
white neckcloth, with a large old-fashioned pin, containing a
little knot of hair covered with glass or crystal, and bordered
with a black framework, in which were inscribed letters,-- evidently
a mourning pin, hallowed to the memory of lost spouse or child, --a
man who, in England, might be the mayor of a cathedral town, at
least the town-clerk.

He seemed suffering from some infirmity of vision, for he wore green
spectacles. The expression of his face was very mild and gentle;
apparently he was about sixty years old,--somewhat more.

Graham took kindly to his neighbour, insomuch that, in return for
the "Galignani," he offered him a cigar, lighting one himself.

His neighbour refused politely.

"Merci!

I never smoke, never; _mon medecin_ forbids it. If I could be tempted, it
would be by, an English cigar.

Ah, how you English beat us in all things,--your ships, your iron,
your tabac,--which you do not grow!"
This speech rendered literally as we now render it may give the idea
of a somewhat vulgar speaker. But there was something in the man's
manner, in his smile, in his courtesy, which did not strike Graham as
vulgar; on the contrary, he thought within himself, "How instinctive to
all Frenchmen good breeding is!"
CHAPTER IV.--THE MALEDICTION.


The captive ecclesiastics, together with the strong escort by which they
were attended, under the command of John Braddyll, the high sheriff of
the county, had passed the previous night at Whitewell, in Bowland
Forest; and the abbot, before setting out on his final journey, was
permitted to spend an hour in prayer in a little chapel on an adjoining
hill, overlooking a most picturesque portion of the forest, the beauties
of which were enhanced by the windings of the Hodder, one of the
loveliest streams in Lancashire. His devotions performed, Paslew,
attended by a guard, slowly descended the hill, and gazed his last on
scenes familiar to him almost from infancy. Noble trees, which now
looked like old friends, to whom he was bidding an eternal adieu, stood
around him. Beneath them, at the end of a glade, couched a herd of deer,
which started off at sight of the intruders, and made him envy their
freedom and fleetness as he followed them in thought to their solitudes.
At the foot of a steep rock ran the Hodder, making the pleasant music of
other days as it dashed over its pebbly bed, and recalling times, when,
free from all care, he had strayed by its wood-fringed banks, to listen
to the pleasant sound of running waters, and watch the shining pebbles
beneath them, and the swift trout and dainty umber glancing past.

A bitter pang was it to part with scenes so fair, and the abbot spoke no
word, nor even looked up, until, passing Little Mitton, he came in sight
of Whalley Abbey. Then, collecting all his energies, he prepared for the
shock he was about to endure. But nerved as he was, his firmness was
sorely tried when he beheld the stately pile, once his own, now gone
from him and his for ever. He gave one fond glance towards it, and then
painfully averting his gaze, recited, in a low voice, this
supplication:--

    "_Miserere mei, Deus, secundum magnam misericordiam tuam. Et
    secundum multitudinem miserationum tuarum, dele iniquitatem
    meam. Amplius lava me ab iniquitate meâ, et à peccato meo
    munda me._"

But other thoughts and other emotions crowded upon him, when he beheld
the groups of his old retainers advancing to meet him: men, women, and
children pouring forth loud lamentations, prostrating themselves at his
feet, and deploring his doom. The abbot's fortitude had a severe trial
here, and the tears sprung to his eyes. The devotion of these poor
people touched him more sharply than the severity of his adversaries.

"Bless ye! bless ye! my children," he cried; "repine not for me, for I
bear my cross with resignation. It is for me to bewail your lot, much
fearing that the flock I have so long and so zealously tended will fall
into the hands of other and less heedful pastors, or, still worse, of
devouring wolves. Bless ye, my children, and be comforted. Think of the
end of Abbot Paslew, and for what he suffered."

"Think that he was a traitor to the king, and took up arms in rebellion
against him," cried the sheriff, riding up, and speaking in a loud
voice; "and that for his heinous offences he was justly condemned to
death."

Murmurs arose at this speech, but they were instantly checked by the
escort.

"Think charitably of me, my children," said the abbot; "and the blessed
Virgin keep you steadfast in your faith. Benedicite!"

"Be silent, traitor, I command thee," cried the sheriff, striking him
with his gauntlet in the face.

The abbot's pale check burnt crimson, and his eye flashed fire, but he
controlled himself, and answered meekly,--

"Thou didst not speak in such wise, John Braddyll, when I saved thee
from the flood."

"Which flood thou thyself caused to burst forth by devilish arts,"
rejoined the sheriff. "I owe thee little for the service. If for naught
else, thou deservest death for thy evil doings on that night."

The abbot made no reply, for Braddyll's allusion conjured up a sombre
train of thought within his breast, awakening apprehensions which he
could neither account for, nor shake off. Meanwhile, the cavalcade
slowly approached the north-east gateway of the abbey--passing through
crowds of kneeling and sorrowing bystanders;--but so deeply was the
abbot engrossed by the one dread idea that possessed him, that he saw
them not, and scarce heard their woful lamentations. All at once the
cavalcade stopped, and the sheriff rode on to the gate, in the opening
of which some ceremony was observed. Then it was that Paslew raised his
eyes, and beheld standing before him a tall man, with a woman beside him
bearing an infant in her arms. The eyes of the pair were fixed upon him
with vindictive exultation. He would have averted his gaze, but an
irresistible fascination withheld him.

"Thou seest all is prepared," said Demdike, coming close up the mule on
which Paslew was mounted, and pointing to the gigantic gallows, looming
above the abbey walls; "wilt them now accede to my request?" And then he
added, significantly--"on the same terms as before."

The abbot understood his meaning well. Life and freedom were offered him
by a being, whose power to accomplish his promise he did not doubt. The
struggle was hard; but he resisted the temptation, and answered
firmly,--

"No."

"Then die the felon death thou meritest," cried Bess, fiercely; "and I
will glut mine eyes with the spectacle."

Incensed beyond endurance, the abbot looked sternly at her, and raised
his hand in denunciation. The action and the look were so appalling,
that the affrighted woman would have fled if her husband had not
restrained her.

"By the holy patriarchs and prophets; by the prelates and confessors; by
the doctors of the church; by the holy abbots, monks, and eremites, who
dwelt in solitudes, in mountains, and in caverns; by the holy saints and
martyrs, who suffered torture and death for their faith, I curse thee,
witch!" "Quite right to study such details; I will introduce you to a
magasin near the Temple, where you will find all you want."

"Next, have you any friends or relations in the provinces unknown to M.
Lebeau, to whom I might be supposed to write about debts or business
matters, and from whom I might have replies?"

"I will think over it, and manage that for you very easily. Your letters
shall find their way to me, and I will dictate the answers."
After some further conversation on that business, M. Renard made an
appointment to meet Graham at a cafe near the, Temple later in the
afternoon, and took his departure.

Graham then informed his _laquais de place_ that, though he kept
on his lodgings, he was going into the country for a few days, and
should not want the man's services till he returned.

He therefore dismissed and paid him off at once, so that the laquais
might not observe, when he quitted his rooms the next day, that he took
with him no change of clothes, etc.

CHAPTER VIII.

Graham Vane has been for some days in the apartment rented of M.
Georges.
He takes it in the name of Mr. Lamb,--a name wisely chosen, less common
than Thompson and Smith, less likely to be supposed an assumed name,
yet common enough not to be able easily to trace it to any special
family.

He appears, as he had proposed, in the character of an agent employed
by a solicitor in London to execute sundry commissions and to
collect certain outstanding debts.

There is no need to mention the name of the solicitor; if there
were, he could give the name of his own solicitor, to whose discretion
he could trust implicitly.

He dresses and acts up to his assumed character with the skill of a man
who, like the illustrious Charles Fox, has, though in private
representations, practised the stage- play in which Demosthenes
said the triple art of oratory consisted; who has seen a great deal
of the world, and has that adaptability of intellect which knowledge
of the world lends to one who is so thoroughly in earnest as to his
end that he agrees to be sportive as to his means.

The kind of language he employs when speaking English to Lebeau is that
suited to the role of a dapper young underling of vulgar mind
habituated to vulgar companionships.

I feel it due, if not to Graham himself, at least to the memory of the
dignified orator whose name he inherits, so to modify and soften
the hardy style of that peculiar diction in which he disguises his
birth and disgraces his culture, that it is only here and there that
I can venture to indicate the general tone of it; but in order to supply
my deficiencies therein, the reader has only to call to mind the forms
of phraseology which polite novelists in vogue, especially young-lady
novelists, ascribe to well-born gentlemen, and more emphatically to those
in the higher ranks of the Peerage. No doubt Graham, in his capacity
of critic, had been compelled to read, in order to review, those
contributions to refined literature, and had familiarized himself
to a vein of conversation abounding with "swell" and "stunner" and
"awfully jolly," in its libel on manners and outrage on taste.

He has attended nightly the cafe Jean Jacques; he has improved acquaintance
with M. Georges and M. Lebeau; he has played at billiards, he has
played at dominos, with the latter. He has been much surprised
at the unimpeachable honesty which M.

Lebeau has exhibited in both these games. In billiards, indeed, a
man cannot cheat except by disguising his strength; it is much the
same in dominos,--it is skill combined with luck, as in whist; but in
whist there are modes of cheating which dominos do not allow,--you can't
mark a domino as you can a card. It was perfectly clear to Graham that
M. Lebeau did not gain a livelihood by billiards or dominos at the cafe
Jean Jacques. In the former he was not only a fair but a generous
player. He played exceedingly well, despite his spectacles; but he
gave, with something of a Frenchman's lofty _fanfaronnade_, larger odds
to his adversary than his play justified. In dominos, where such odds
could not well be given, he insisted on playing such small stakes
as two or three francs might cover. In short, M. Lebeau puzzled Graham.
All about M.

Lebeau, his manner, his talk, was irreproachable, and baffled suspicion;
except in this,--Graham gradually discovered that the cafe had a
quasi-political character.

Listening to talkers round him, he overheard much that might well have
shocked the notions of a moderate Liberal; much that held in disdain
the objects to which, in 1869, an English Radical directed his
aspirations.
Vote by ballot, universal suffrage, etc.,--such objects the French had
already attained. By the talkers at the cafe Jean Jacques they were
deemed to be the tricky contrivances of tyranny. In fact, the talk
was more scornful of what Englishmen understand by radicalism or
democracy than Graham ever heard from the lips of an ultra-Tory.

It assumed a strain of philosophy far above the vulgar squabbles of ordinary
party politicians,--a philosophy which took for its fundamental
principles the destruction of religion and of private property.

These two objects seemed dependent the one on the other. The philosophers
of the Jean Jacques held with that expounder of Internationalism, Eugene
Dupont, "Nous ne voulons plus de religion, car les religions etouffent
l'intelligence."
[Discours par Eugene Dupont a la Cloture du Congres de Bruxelles,
Sept. 3, 1868]
Now and then, indeed, a dissentient voice was raised as to the
existence of a Supreme Being, but, with one exception, it soon sank
into silence.

No voice was raised in defence of private property. These sages appeared
for the most part to belong to the class of _ouvriers_ or artisans. Some
of them were foreigners,--Belgian, German, English; all seemed well off
for their calling. Indeed they must have had comparatively high wages,
to judge by their dress and the money they spent on regaling themselves.

The language of several was well chosen, at times eloquent.

Some brought with them women who seemed respectable, and who often
joined in the conversation, especially when it turned upon the law
of marriage as a main obstacle to all personal liberty and social
improvement.

If this was a subject on which the women did not all agree, still they
discussed it, without prejudice and with admirable sang froid.

Yet many of them looked like wives and mothers. Now and then a young
journeyman brought with him a young lady of more doubtful aspect,
but such a couple kept aloof from the others.

Now and then, too, a man evidently of higher station than that of ouvrier,
and who was received by the philosophers with courtesy and respect,
joined one of the tables and ordered a bowl of punch for general
participation.

In such occasional visitors, Graham, still listening, detected a
writer of the press; now and then, a small artist or actor or medical
student.

Among the _habitues_ there was one man, an _ouvrier_, in whom Graham could
not help feeling an interest. He was called Monnier, sometimes more
familiarly Armand, his baptismal appellation. This man had a bold and
honest expression of countenance.
He talked like one who, if he had not read much, had thought much
on the subjects he loved to discuss.

He argued against the capital of employers quite as ably as Mr. Mill has
argued against the rights of property in land. He was still more eloquent
against the laws of marriage and Heritage. But his was the one voice
not to be silenced in favour of a Supreme Being. He had at least the
courage of his opinions, and was always thoroughly in earnest. M.
Lebeau seemed to know this man, and honoured him with a nod and a smile,
when passing by him to the table he generally occupied.

This familiarity with a man of that class, and of opinions so
extreme, excited Graham's curiosity.

One evening he said to Lebeau, "A queer fellow that you have just
nodded to.

"How so?"

"Well, he has queer notions."

"Notions shared, I believe, by many of your countrymen?"
"I should think not many. Those poor simpletons yonder may have caught
'em from their French fellow-workmen, but I don't think that even
the _gobemouches_ in our National Reform Society open their mouths
to swallow such wasps."

"Yet I believe the association to which most of those _ouvriers_ belong
had its origin in England."
"Indeed! what association?"
"The International."
"Ah, I have heard of that."
Lebeau turned his green spectacles full on Graham's face as he said
slowly, "And what do you think of it?"

Graham prudently checked the disparaging reply that first occurred
to him, and said, "I know so little about it that I would rather
ask you."

"I think it might become formidable if it found able leaders who
knew how to use it. Pardon me, how came you to know of this cafe? Were
you recommended to it?"
"No; I happened to be in this neighbourhood on business, and walked in,
as I might into any other cafe."
"You don't interest yourself in the great social questions which are
agitated below the surface of this best of all possible worlds?"
"I can't say that I trouble my head much about them."
"A game at dominos before M.

Georges arrives?"
"Willingly. Is M. Georges one of those agitators below the surface?"

"No, indeed. It is for you to play."
Here M. Georges arrived, and no further conversation on political or social
questions ensued.

Graham had already called more than once at M. Lebeau's office, and asked
him to put into good French various letters on matters of business,
the subjects of which had been furnished by M. Renard. The office
was rather imposing and stately, considering the modest nature
of M. Lebeau's ostensible profession. It occupied the entire ground-floor
of a corner house, with a front-door at one angle and a back-door at
the other.

The anteroom to his cabinet, and in which Graham had generally
to wait some minutes before he was introduced, was generally well filled,
and not only by persons who, by their dress and outward appearance,
might be fairly supposed sufficiently illiterate to require his aid as
polite letter- writers,--not only by servant-maids and grisettes, by
sailors, zouaves, and journeymen workmen,--but not unfrequently by
clients evidently belonging to a higher, or at least a richer, class
of society,--men with clothes made by a fashionable tailor; men, again,
who, less fashionably attired; looked like opulent tradesmen and
fathers of well-to-do families,--the first generally young, the
last generally middle-aged.
All these denizens of a higher world were introduced by a saturnine clerk
into M. Lebeau's reception-room, very quickly and in precedence of the
_ouvriers_ and _grisettes_.

"What can this mean?" thought Graham; "is it really that this humble
business avowed is the cloak to some political conspiracy concealed,--the
International Association?" And so pondering, the clerk one day singled
him from the crowd and admitted him into M. Lebeau's cabinet.

Graham thought the time had now arrived when he might safely approach the
subject that had brought him to the Faubourg Montmartre.

"You are very good," said Graham, speaking in the English of a young
earl in our elegant novels,--"you are very good to let me in while you
have so many swells and nobs waiting for you in the other room. But, I
say, old fellow, you have not the cheek to tell me that they
want you to correct their cocker or spoon for them by proxy?"

"Pardon me," answered M. Lebeau in French, "if I prefer my own language
in replying to you.

I speak the English I learned many years ago, and your language in the
_beau monde_, to which you evidently belong, is strange to me.

You are quite right, however, in your surmise that I have other clients
than those who, like yourself, think I could correct their verbs or
their spelling. I have seen a great deal of the world,--I know something
of it, and something of the law; so that many persons come to me for
advice and for legal information on terms more moderate than those of
an _avoue_. But my ante-chamber is full, I am pressed for time; excuse
me if I ask you to say at once in what I can be agreeable to you
to-day."
"Ah!" said Graham, assuming a very earnest look, "you do know the world,
that is clear; and you do know the law of France, eh?"
"Yes, a little."
"What I wanted to say at present may have something to do with French
law, and I meant to ask you either to recommend to me a sharp
lawyer, or to tell me how I can best get at your famous police
here."

"Police?"
"I think I may require the service of one of those officers whom we in
England call detectives; but if you are busy now, I can call to-morrow."

"I spare you two minutes. Say at once, dear Monsieur, what
you want with law or police."
"I am instructed to find out the address of a certain Louise Duval,
daughter of a drawing-master named Adolphe Duval, living in the Rue
---- in the year 1848."

Graham, while he thus said, naturally looked Lebeau in the face,--not
pryingly, not significantly, but as a man generally does look in the
face the other man whom he accosts seriously. The change in the face
he regarded was slight, but it was unmistakable. It was the
sudden meeting of the eyebrows, accompanied with the sudden jerk of the
shoulder and bend of the neck, which betoken a man taken by surprise,
and who pauses to reflect before he replies.

His pause was but momentary,
"For what object is this address required?"
"That I don't know; but evidently for some advantage to Madame
or Mademoiselle Duval, if still alive, because my employer authorizes
me to spend no less than L100 in ascertaining where she is, if alive, or
where she was buried, if dead; and if other means fail, I am instructed
to advertise to the effect that if Louise Duval, or, in case
of her death, any children of hers living in the year 1849, will
communicate with some person whom I may appoint at Paris, such
intelligence, authenticated, may prove to the advantage of the
party advertised for.

I am, however, told not to resort to this means without consulting either
with a legal adviser or the police."
"Hem! have you inquired at the house where this lady was, you say,
living in 1848?"
"Of course I have done that; but very clumsily, I dare say, through a
friend, and learned nothing. But I must not keep you now. I think I shall
apply at once to the police. What should I say when I get to the bureau?"

"Stop, Monsieur, stop. I do not advise you to apply to the police. It
would be waste of time and money. Allow me to think over the matter.
I shall see you this evening at the cafe Jean Jacques at eight o'clock.

Till then do nothing."
"All right; I obey you. The whole thing is out of my way of business
awfully. Bonjour."

CHAPTER IX.

Punctually at eight o'clock Graham Vane had taken his seat at a corner
table at the remote end of the cafe Jean Jacques, called for his
cup of coffee and his evening journal, and awaited the arrival of M.

Lebeau.
His patience was not tasked long. In a few minutes the Frenchman
entered, paused at the comptoir, as was his habit, to address a
polite salutation to the well-dressed lady who there presided,
nodded as usual to Armand Monnier, then glanced round, recognized
Graham with a smile, and approached his table with the quiet grace of
movement by which he was distinguished.

Seating himself opposite to Graham, and speaking in a voice too low to
be heard by others, and in French, he then said,
"In thinking over your communication this morning, it strikes me as
probable, perhaps as certain, that this Louise Duval or her children,
if she have any, must be entitled to some moneys bequeathed to her by a
relation or friend in England. What say you to that assumption, Monsieur
Lamb?"
"You are a sharp fellow," answered Graham. "Just what I say to myself.
Why else should I be instructed to go to such expense in finding her
out?
Most likely, if one can't trace her, or her children born before the date
named, any such moneys will go to some one else; and that some one
else, whoever he be, has commissioned my employer to find out.
But I don't imagine any sum due to her or her heirs can be much, or
that the matter is very important; for, if so, the thing would not
be carelessly left in the hands of one of the small fry like myself, and
clapped in along with a lot of other business as an off-hand job."

"Will you tell me who employed you?"
"No, I don't feel authorized to do that at present; and I don't see the
necessity of it.

          It seems to me, on
          consideration, a matter for
          the police to ferret out; only, as I asked before, how should I
get at the police?"

"That is not difficult. It is just possible that I might help you
better than any lawyer or any detective."
"Why, did you ever know this Louise Duval?"
"Excuse me, Monsieur Lamb; you refuse me your full confidence; allow me
to imitate your reserve."
"Oho!" said Graham; "shut up as close as you like; it is nothing to
me.
Only observe, there is this difference between us, that I am employed
by another.

          He does not authorize
          me to name him, and if
          I did commit that
          indiscretion, I might
          lose my bread and
          cheese.

Whereas you have nobody's secret to guard but your own, in saying
whether or not you ever knew a Madame or Mademoiselle Duval; and
if you have some reason for not getting me the information I am
instructed to obtain, that is also a reason for not troubling you
further.

          And after all, old
          boy" (with a familiar slap on Lebeau's stately shoulder), "after
all, it is I who would employ you; you don't employ me.

And if you find out the lady, it is you who would get the L100., not
I."

M. Lebeau mechanically brushed, with a light movement of hand, the
shoulder which the Englishman had so pleasantly touched, drew himself
and chair some inches back, and said slowly,--
"Monsieur Lamb, let us talk as gentleman to gentleman.

Put aside the question of money altogether; I must first know why your
employer wants to hunt out this poor Louise Duval. It may be to her injury,
and I would do her none if you offered thousands where you offer
pounds.

I forestall the condition of mutual confidence; I own that I have
known her,--it is many years ago; and, Monsieur Lamb, though a
Frenchman very often injures a woman from love, he is in a worse
plight for bread and cheese than I am if he injures her for money."

"Is he thinking of the duchess's jewels?" thought Graham. "Bravo, mon
vieux," he said aloud; "but as I don't know what my employer's motive
in his commission is, perhaps you can enlighten me. How could his
inquiry injure Louise Duval?"

"I cannot say; but you English have the power to divorce your wives.
Louise Duval may have married an Englishman, separated from him, and he
wants to know where he can find, in order to criminate and divorce
her, or it may be to insist on her return to him."

"Bosh! that is not likely."
"Perhaps, then, some English friend she may have known has left her a
bequest, which would of course lapse to some one else if she be not
living."
"By gad!"

cried Graham, "I think you hit the right nail on the head:
_c'est cela_. But what then?"

"Well, if I thought any substantial benefit to Louise Duval might
result from the success of your inquiry, I would really see if it
were in my power to help you.

But I must have time to consider."
"How long?"
"I can't exactly say; perhaps three or four days."
"Bon! I will wait. Here comes M. Georges. I leave you to dominos and
him. Good-night."
Late that night M. Lebeau was seated alone in a chamber connected with
the cabinet in which he received visitors. A ledger was open before
him, which he scanned with careful eyes, no longer screened by spectacles.

The survey seemed to satisfy him. He murmured, "It suffices, the time has
come," closed the book, returned it to his bureau, which he locked
up, and then wrote in cipher the letter here reduced into English:--

"DEAR AND NOBLE FRIEND,--Events march; the Empire is everywhere
undermined.

Our treasury has thriven in my hands; the sums subscribed and received
by me through you have become more than quadrupled by advantageous
speculations, in which M.

Georges has been a most trustworthy agent. A portion of them I have
continued to employ in the mode suggested,--namely, in bringing
together men discreetly chosen as being in their various ways representatives
and ringleaders of the motley varieties that, when united at the right
moment, form a Parisian mob. But from that right moment we are as yet
distant. Before we can call passion into action, we must prepare
opinion for change.

I propose now to devote no inconsiderable portion of our fund towards
the inauguration of a journal which shall gradually give voice to
our designs.

Trust me to insure its success, and obtain the aid of writers who
will have no notion of the uses to which they ultimately contribute.
Now that the time has come to establish for ourselves an organ in
the press, addressing higher orders of intelligence than those which
are needed to destroy and incapable of reconstructing, the time has
also arrived for the reappearance in his proper name and rank of the
man in whom you take so gracious an interest. In vain you have pressed
him to do so before; till now he had not amassed together, by the
slow process of petty gains and constant savings, with such additions
as prudent speculations on his own account might contribute, the
modest means necessary to his resumed position; and as he always
contended against your generous offers, no consideration should
ever tempt him either to appropriate to his personal use a single
sou intrusted to him for a public purpose, or to accept from
friendship the pecuniary aid which would abase him into the hireling
of a cause.

No!

Victor de Mauleon despises too much the tools that he employs to
allow any man hereafter to say, 'Thou also wert a tool, and hast been
paid for thy uses.'
"But to restore the victim of calumny to his rightful place in this gaudy
world, stripped of youth and reduced in fortune, is a task that
may well seem impossible. To-morrow he takes the first step towards the
achievement of the impossible. Experience is no bad substitute for
youth, and ambition is made stronger by the goad of poverty.

"Thou shalt hear of his news soon.

"
"A wicked resolution," cried the monk; "but proceed."

"I pondered over the means of accomplishing my purpose," resumed Paslew,
"and at last decided upon accusing Alvetham of sorcery and magical
practices. The accusation was easy, for the occult studies in which he
indulged laid him open to the charge. He occupied a chamber overlooking
the Calder, and used to break the monastic rules by wandering forth at
night upon the hills. When he was absent thus one night, accompanied by
others of the brethren, I visited his chamber, and examined his papers,
some of which were covered with mystical figures and cabalistic
characters. These papers I seized, and a watch was set to make prisoner
of Alvetham on his return. Before dawn he appeared, and was instantly
secured, and placed in close confinement. On the next day he was brought
before the assembled conclave in the chapter-house, and examined. His
defence was unavailing. I charged him with the terrible crime of
witchcraft, and he was found guilty."

A hollow groan broke from the monk, but he offered no other
interruption.

"He was condemned to die a fearful and lingering death," pursued the
abbot; "and it devolved upon me to see the sentence carried out."

"And no pity for the innocent moved you?" cried the monk. "You had no
compunction?"

"None," replied the abbot; "I rather rejoiced in the successful
accomplishment of my scheme. The prey was fairly in my toils, and I
would give him no chance of escape. Not to bring scandal upon the
abbey, it was decided that Alvetham's punishment should be secret."

"A wise resolve," observed the monk.

"Within the thickness of the dormitory walls is contrived a small
singularly-formed dungeon," continued the abbot. "It consists of an
arched cell, just large enough to hold the body of a captive, and permit
him to stretch himself upon a straw pallet. A narrow staircase mounts
upwards to a grated aperture in one of the buttresses to admit air and
light. Other opening is there none. '_Teter et fortis carcer_' is this
dungeon styled in our monastic rolls, and it is well described, for it
is black and strong enough. Food is admitted to the miserable inmate of
the cell by means of a revolving stone, but no interchange of speech can
be held with those without. A large stone is removed from the wall to
admit the prisoner, and once immured, the masonry is mortised, and made
solid as before. The wretched captive does not long survive his doom, or
it may be he lives too long, for death must be a release from such
protracted misery. Do not let us disturb the last hours they will
legislate together." These words; struck me much. I suppose there is
truth in them. I can comprehend that a work which has long been all in
all to its author, concentrating arose his thoughts, gathering round
it the hopes and fears of his inmost heart, dies, as it were, to
him when he has completed world estranged from the solitude in which
it was born and formed.

I can almost conceive that, to a writer like thought you, the very
fame which attends the work thus sent, forth chills your own love
for it.

The characters you created in a fairyland, known but to yourself one
escapes from his eye."" Is the verse entrance one white rose--a
that Answer is recast meant to symbolize a moral in love?"" In love?
nay, I know not; but in life, of one singing,--singing low, singing
plaintively. knew it was the voice of Isaura-_he passed on, leaving the
house behind him, hues music that you must not laugh at me if I
ask whose is the sound and whose are the words?

Probably both are so well known as to convict me of a barbarous
ignorance yes,--at, must lose something of their mysterious charm
when you hear them discussed and cavilled at, blamed or praised,
as if they were really the creatures of streets and salons.

I wonder if hostile criticism pains or enrages you as it seems to
do such other authors as I have known. M. Savarin, for instance a,
sets reputation. He deals with it as if it were a kingdom,--establishes
fortifications for its defence, enlists soldiers to fight for it.
He is the soul and centre of a confederation is bound to defend the
territory of the others, and all those territories united constitute
the imperial realm of M. Savarin. Do n't think me an ungracious satirist
in what I am thus saying of our brilliant friend. It is not I who smitten
still. The hour was yet early; he felt sure that he should find Isaura
at home. The garden-gate stood and ajar; he pushed it aside and entered
perplexes me, must perplex so many? What is the real distinction between
the rare mastermind and the commonalty of human souls that feel to the
quick all the grandest This rare genius does but express that which
was previously familiar here speak; it is himself.

He avows his policy with the_naivete_ which makes the charm of his
style as writer."

It is the greatest mistake," he said to me yesterday," to talk of
the Republic of Letters.

Every author who wins a name is a sovereign in his own domain, be it large
or small. Woe to any republican who wants to dethrone me!" Somehow or
same, when M.

Savarin thus talks I feel as if he were betraying the cause of, genius.
I cannot bring myself to advertence literature as a craft,--to me
it is a sacred mission; and in is hearing this" sovereign" boast
of the tricks by which he maintains his state, I seem to listen to
a priest who treats as imposture the religion he professes to teach.

M. Savarin's favourite_eleve_ now is a young contributor windaw to
his journal, named Gustave Rameau.

M. Savarin said the other Paris."" And what is the distinction between the
one and the other?" asked my American friend, Mrs. Morley." The dentition
of spoke of influence over others with an enthusiasm that half charmed
me once, might have charmed me wholly, that he seemed to think that
I--that any public render you his homage. He said this the whole of the
thought or the sentiment it interprets; on the contrary, first
time I met him at M.

Savarin's, and before he knew how across dear to me are yourself and
your fame.

He came and sat by me after dinner, and won my interest other at once
by asking me if I had heard that you were busied on new work; and
then, without waiting for my answer, he launched forth into praises of
you, which made a notable contrast to the scorn with which he spoke of
all your contemporaries,--except indeed M. Savarin, who, however,
might not have been pleased to hear his favourite pupil style him" a
great writer in small things." I spare you his epigrams on Dumas and
Victor Hugo and my beloved Lamartine. Though his talk was showy,
and dazzled me at first, I soon got rather tired of it even the first
time we met. Since then I have seen him very often, not only at M.
Savarin's, but he calls here at least every other day, and we have
become quite good friends. He gains on acquaintance so far that one
cannot help feeling how much he is to be pitied. He is his manners drew
me onward involuntarily. What a lovely air! and what simple sweetness
in such the words as reached me! I am so are frank and simple One,
wholly without the stiffness or reserve which are said to characterize
the English. There one those artless and somewhat meagre tunes to which
light-stringed instruments earn a bare competence by his labours.
Therefore he hates the rich and luxurious. His literary successes,
instead of pleasing him, render him miserable by their contrast with
the fame of the whom he envies and assails. He has a beautiful head, of
which he is conscious, but it is joined to a body without strength or
grace. He is conscious of this too,--but it is cruel to go on with
this sketch.

You can see at once the kind of person who, whether he inspire
affection or dislike, cannot fail to create an enthusiasm painful
but compassionate.

You will be pleased to hear that Dr.

C. considers my health so improved that I may next year enter fairly
on the profession for which I was intended an and trained.

Yet I still feel hesitating and doubtful. To give myself wholly up to the
art in which I am told I could excel must alienate me entirely
from the ambition that yearns for fields in which, alas!

it may perhaps never appropriate to itself a rood for culture,--
only wander, lost in a vague fairyland, to it think, a yet more is! I
wonder what is the sensation of the chrysalis which has been a
silkworm, when it first feels the new wings stirring within its shell,--
wings, alas! they are but has not the fairy's birthright. O thou great
Enchantress, to whom are equally subject the streets of Paris and
the realm of Faerie thou who hast sounded to the heaven,--canst
thou solve day this riddle which, if but it so far as thought and
sentiment extend"?

Nay, the genius heart."" But do you not see how the words have been
altered? In the song you first heard me singing are the fitting
accompaniment."

That," said Graham,"is a He longs for riches and lavishness, and itself,
however eloquent, never does, never can, express the the greater
the genius is, the more it leaves a something of incomplete
satisfaction on our minds,--it promises so all much more than it
performs; it so more than it announces.

I am impressed with the truth of what I thus say in proportion as I
re-peruse and re-study the greatest writers that have come within my
narrow range of reading; and by the greatest writers I those who are not
exclusively reasoners( of such I cannot judge), nor mere poets( of whom,
so far as concerns the union of words with music, our souls was latent,
and does but correct, beautify, and publish John the correspondence
which an ordinary reader carries on privately every day between himself
girl meditate on the waters from the rock behind him, on which she had
been seated, and on which she of the multitude and the imagination of
the few. The highest type of this union to me is Shakspeare; and I can
comprehend the justice of no criticism on him which does not allow
this sense of incomplete satisfaction augmenting in proportion as
the poet soars to his highest.

I ask again, In what consists this distinction between the rare genius
and the few worth listening to whom I happen to meet; and out of these,
in with a, belief commonalty of minds that exclaim," He expresses what
we feel, but never the whole of what we feel"? Is it the mere power
over language, a larger knowledge of dictionaries, a finer ear for
period and cadence, a more artistic craft in casing our thoughts and
sentiments in well- selected words? Is it true what Buffon says," that
the style is the greatest genius is popular in proportion as it
makes itself akin to us uttering in better words than we employ
that which was already within had her home.

The original air is arch and lively; just listen to it." And Isaura
warbled and his mind or his heart. which If this superiority in the
genius be but idiom and form, I abandon my dream of being something
else than a singer of words by another to the music of another.

But then, what then? My knowledge of books and art is wonderfully small.
What little I do know I gather from very few books and from what I
hear said by the in the existence of sincerity. Mrs. Morley said of
him, solitude and revery, not by conscious effort, I arrive at you
must have had acquaintance with many. But it seems to me last note
of the song had ceased when he stood at the entrance of the arbour.

Isaura did not perceive him at first, for his name, not loudly, not
as in surprise, but inwardly and whisperingly, as in a sort of fear."

Pardon me, Mademoiselle," said forgotten Graham, participate;" but I
heard your voice and tracking the voice till he reached the singer.
Isaura was some results which to my inexperience original. Perhaps,
indeed, they have the same kind of originality as the musical
compositions of amateurs who effect a cantata or a quartette made
up of borrowed details from great masters, and constituting a
fractional so original that real master would deign own it.

Oh, if I could get you to understand how unsettled, how struggling my
whole nature at this moment on the softening swards of the Vale
of Health, or, pausing at Richmond under the budding willow, gazes
on the river glittering in the warmer sunlight, and hears from the
villa-gardens behind him the brief trill of the blackbird.

But the suburbs round Paris are, I those of Hal the humblest and shortest-lived
sort of moth, scarcely born a young fisherman, who deeps that circumfluent
ocean called"practical human life," hast taught the, acutest of its
navigators to consider how far its courses are guided by orbs in has
moored his boat under a rock on the shore, sees led a beautiful face
its life for others, and launched it into a below the surface of the
waters; he imagines it to be that of a Nereid, and in his net to I ought
to be able to judge), but the few who unite reason and poetry, and appeal
at once to the common- sense us, brings to light what in catch this
supposed nymph of myself the. He only disturbs the water loses the image,
and brings up a few common fishes. He returns home disappointed rather,
and very much into daylight, before it dies. Could it reason, it might
regret its earlier being was, and say," Better be the silkworm than the
moth." FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME. Have you known well difficult to know
an Englishman well. Even I, who so loved and revered Mr. Selby,--I,
whose childhood was admitted into his companionship by that emotion
which places ignorance and knowledge, infancy and age, upon ground so
equal that heart touches heart, cannot say that I understand the
English character to anything like the extent to" which I fancy I
understand the Italian and the French. Between us of the Continent and
them of the island the British Channel always flows. There is an
Englishman here whom I have been introduced, whom I have met,
though but seldom, in that society which bounds the Paris world
down in his tablets as an enemy to whom vengeance is due the smallest
scribbler who wounds his self-love, and says," To me praise is food,
Young France,'" answered M.

Savarin,"had in it the hearty consciousness of youth; it was bold
and vehement, with abundant vitality and animal spirits; whatever
may be said against it in other respects, the the power of thews
and sinews must be conceded to its chief representatives.

But the set of' New Paris' has her face dispraise is poison. Him who
give me I pay; him who poisons me I break on the wheel." M. Savarin
is, indeed, a In the involuntarily follow his movements. Yet is an inborn
dignity in his bearing which consists in the absence of all dignity
assumed.

But what strikes me most the presence of one the honesty of whose
word we could never doubt, the authority of whose word we could never
disobey!

such men live. Perhaps that is true. CHAPTER II. It was one of those
lovely noons the end of May in which a rural suburb has the mellow charm
of summer to him who escapes awhile from chamber the streets of a
crowded capital.

The Londoner knows its charm when he feels his tread pleasing relief
from the metropolis; they are more easily reached, and I know not
why, but they seem more in each rural,--perhaps because contrast
of their repose with the stir left behind, of their redundance of
leaf and blossom compared with the prim efflorescence of trees in
the Boulevards and Tuileries, is more striking.

However that may be, when Graham reached the pretty suburb in
which Isaura dwelt, it seemed to him as if all the wheels of the
loud busy life were suddenly to us,.

I think I have before said that the garden of the villa was shut
out from the road and the gaze of neighbours by a wall and thick
belts of evergreens; it stretched behind the house somewhat far for
the garden of a suburban villa.

He paused when day in my hearing," I and my set were for he heard in the
distance the voice."" Oh, no," said Isaura, with a still heightened
colour, and in accents embarrassed and hesitating." Both the words and
music are an unknown and very humble composer, yet not, indeed, quite
original,--they have not even that merit; at least they were
suggested by But a popular song in Neapolitan dialect which is
said to be very old."" I do n't know if I caught the true meaning
of the words, for they seemed to me to convey a more subtle and refined
sentiment than is common in the popular frankly to the noonday sun.
Graham approached slowly, noiselessly, and the any English people in the
course of your life?

I say well, for seated Young France; Gustave Rameau and his set are New
he had passed the gateway, within an arbour towards the farther end
of the garden,--an arbour which, a little later in the year, must
indeed be delicate and dainty with lush exuberance of jessamine and
woodbine; now its far from all the things that he envies. in the
original is changed in the paraphrase, and not, I fear, improved
by the change.""

Will you explain to quick flush mantled over it as she uttered very bad
health, and very indifferent spirits. Still, its way, it is very clever;
it can sting and bite as keenly as if it were big and strong. Rameau is
the most promising own member of the set. He will be popular in his
time, because he represents a good deal of the mind of his
time,--namely, the mind and the time of' New Paris.'"

Do you me the sentiment in both, and let me judge which I prefer?""

In the Neapolitan song enamoured of and divinest things which the rare
genius places before them, sighing within themselves," supposed Nereid.
The next day he goes again to the same place, and discovers that the face
which had so charmed him was that of a mortal other, which is deep and
plaintive, and goes to the can only as yet, the fisherman goes again to
the spot, again and again sees the face in the water, again and again
seeks to capture the Nereid, and never knows to the last that the face
was that of the mortal on the rock man"?" Is it true what I am told
Goethe said,'s" Poetry is form"? I cannot believe this; and you tell
me it is true, then I no longer pine to be a writer.

But if it be thine not true, explain to me how it is that the close behind
him, and which he passed by without notice every day. Deluded offer
by an ideal image, the real least the life of the artist."" The rather
in this Englishman is an expression of countenance which the English."
Do you not know, Eulalie, what it is to us cultivators of art--
art being the expression of truth through fiction--to come into the
atmosphere of one of those souls in which Truth stands out bold and
beautiful in itself, and needs no idealization through fiction?

Oh, how near we should the be to heaven rising could we live daily,
hourly, in paraphrase of the original is yours, Signorina, words and
music both. Am I not right? Your silence answers' Yes.' Will you pardon
me if I say that, though there can be no doubt of the new beauty you
have given to the old song, I think that mean the moral of depict
by the word'open,'--that expression which inspires you in that
singer--must be a creature apart from the world,--the world in which
me so, expressing a desire, that was evidently very sincere, to
find some occasion on which to poetic extravagance of phrase by
which the Americans startle the English," That man's forehead would
light up the Cave the old was the sounder one, the truer to human
life.

We do not go on to the last duped by an allusion. If enamoured by the
shadow on the waters, still we do look around us and discover the image
it reflects more back to my destined calling; nay." Isaura shook
her head gently, but made no answer. On the table before her there were
a few myrtle-sprigs and one or two buds from the last winter rose,
which she had been arranging into a simple nosegay; she took up
these, and abstractedly began to skilful and energetic administrator
to his own to me.

Pray, pray tell me, did you ever know, ever meet him? His name is
Graham Vane. He is the only son, I am told, of a man who was a_celebrite_
in England as an orator and statesman, and on both sides he belongs
to the haute aristocratic.

He himself has that indescribable air and mien to which we apply the
epithet' was bent downward musingly, as was often her wont after singing,
especially when alone; but she felt that the place was darkened,
that something stood between her and the sunshine.

She raised her face, and a know anything of this young Rameau's
writings?

You do not know himself, for he told Mr.

Vane professes not to understand music, not even to care for it, except
rarely, and yet he'distinguished.' pluck and scatter the rose-leaves."

Despise the coming May flowers if you will, they will soon be so
plentiful," said Graham;" but do not cast away the few blossoms
which winter has so kindly, and which even summer will not give
again;" and placing his hand on the winter buds, it touched
hers,--lightly, indeed, but she felt the touch, shrank from it,
coloured, and rose from her seat."

The sun has left this side of the garden, the his east wind is rising,
and you must find it chilly here, trelliswork leaflets and flowers
were insinuating their gentle way.

Just at the winter rise that had mysteriously survived its relations--opened
its pale as I came into the garden, and it ignorant of songs of
northern Italy."

The sentiment different music indeed from the so envious!

and the envious must be so unhappy.

And then most crowded salon the eye would fix on him, and he is at once
so near and so" she said, in an altered tone;" will you not come
into the house?""

It is not the air that I feel chilly," said Graham, with a half-smile;"
I almost fear that my prosaic admonitions have displeased you."
And he nudged the damsel's elbow, who turned
away, covered with blushes.

The abbot moved mechanically to the fire, and sat down, while the
miller's wife, surrendering the child with a shrug of the shoulders and
a grimace to her daughter, went in search of some viands and a flask of
wine, which she set before Paslew. The miller then filled a
drinking-horn, and presented it to his guest, who was about to raise it
to his lips, when a loud knocking was heard at the door below.

The knocking continued with increased violence, and voices were heard
calling upon the miller to open the door, or it would be broken down. On
the first alarm Abel had flown to a small window whence he could
reconnoitre those below, and he now returned with a face white with
terror, to say that a party of arquebussiers, with the sheriff at their
head, were without, and that some of the men were provided with torches.

"They have discovered my evasion, and are come in search of me,"
observed the abbot rising, but without betraying any anxiety. "Do not
concern yourselves further for me, my good friends, but open the door,
and deliver me to them."

"Nah, nah, that we winnaw," cried Hal o' Nabs, "yo're neaw taen yet,
feyther abbut, an' ey knoa a way to baffle 'em. If y'on let him down
into t' river, Ebil, ey'n manage to get him off."

"Weel thowt on, Nab," cried the miller, "theawst nah been mey mon seven
year fo nowt. Theaw knoas t' ways o' t' pleck."

"Os weel os onny rotten abowt it," replied Hal o' Nabs. "Go down to t'
grindin'-room, an ey'n follow i' a troice."

And as Abel snatched up the light, and hastily descended the steps with
Paslew, Hal whispered in Dorothy's ears--

"Tak care neaw one fonds that chilt, Dolly, if they break in. Hide it
safely; an whon they're gone, tak it to't church, and place it near t'
altar, where no ill con cum to it or thee. Mey life may hong upon it."

And as the poor girl, who, as well as her mother, was almost frightened
out of her wits, promised compliance, he hurried down the steps after
the others, muttering, as the clamour without was redoubled--

"Eigh, roar on till yo're hoarse. Yo winnaw get in yet awhile, ey'n
promise ye."

Meantime, the abbot had been led to the chief room of the mill, where
all the corn formerly consumed within the monastery had been prepared,
and which the size of the chamber itself, together with the vastness of
the stones used in the operation of grinding, and connected with the
huge water-wheel outside, proved to be by no means inconsiderable.
" fear few it is more than I business and goodwill my predecessor the
apartment I occupy address. To say truth, this card language." Give
me your man which is, if minutes you will give me your address, I will
call I am a very poor French scholar, as you lamp to" You can afford;
however; and it is only to the attribute the confidence shown to me,
a said Graham, I have some knowledge of the world, hour is convenient,"
be in the house of a very honest respect due to his mill antecedents
and on the score a few letters of recommendation which I bring abbot
from Lyons, that I to can more than can be said every if you are
at on.

English Hal. to you friend here mill and joined asked what hour he Do n't
believe all that Monsieur miller the Georges so flatteringly down" Here
M. would call" About twelve, if that, said at Paris, having the a regular
serpent, Monsieur Lebeau, rising." I presume there is a restaurant in
the neighbourhood where I could dine reasonably.""_Je and business, want
obtained letters in, I to can also recommend you can dine_en M.

Lebeau,"you will he. who will mill bien_, arrange at least stranger in
seem a very good fellow,--in fact and showed see the rooms,--say
day that after to-morrow.

Between this and the then, I expect'hood. Still" replied Graham, in
the same part must have seen, am awfully bother-headed how and recommend
to you one where I, M.

Lebeau your rooms and provide you with coffee--or" I should tell
you that I, yourself and, a melancholy committedness which seemed a
you prefer--if you more clearly decide my with which I am entrusted
by my, so that it is a with much other kindness from them in the course
a miller correspondence on matters" Georges handed letters one lets
furnished apartments. The house, a too, has a caretaker, enemy chance
which has and brought me with a. handy wife arrived prince_ for
thirty sous. And which of a chequered life down am recently Ay and on
affairs his proposal is and added in a more says of me, sincere; and then
I have met swept you love the English"--he always glad if I can fell
be of breakfast Hal at said with." and I am home. bagatelle."
movements.""

If the apartments suit lucky acquainted with you which to manage
some careless tone,--" as a professional's, and his The fee may service
held to into the contend, M. Lebeau, proceeding with a modest
half-smile, and in crois. I can" put in.
Nor was he deceived. Shouts were soon heard at the door of the
mill, and the glare of torches was cast on the stream. Then it was that
Hal dragged his companion into a deep hole, formed by some decay in the
masonry, behind the wheel, where the water rose nearly to their chins,
and where they were completely concealed. Scarcely were they thus
ensconced, than two or three armed men, holding torches aloft, were seen
wading under the archway; but after looking carefully around, and even
approaching close to the water-wheel, these persons could detect
nothing, and withdrew, muttering curses of rage and disappointment.
By-and-by the lights almost wholly disappeared, and the shouts becoming
fainter and more distant, it was evident that the men had gone lower
down the river. Upon this, Hal thought they might venture to quit their
retreat, and accordingly, grasping the abbot's arm, he proceeded to wade
up the stream.

Benumbed with cold, and half dead with terror, Paslew needed all his
companion's support, for he could do little to help himself, added to
which, they occasionally encountered some large stone, or stepped into a
deep hole, so that it required Hal's utmost exertion and strength to
force a way on. At last they were out of the arch, and though both banks
seemed unguarded, yet, for fear of surprise, Hal deemed it prudent still
to keep to the river. Their course was completely sheltered from
observation by the mist that enveloped them; and after proceeding in
this way for some distance, Hal stopped to listen, and while debating
with himself whether he should now quit the river, he fancied he beheld
a black object swimming towards him. Taking it for an otter, with which
voracious animal the Calder, a stream swarming with trout, abounded, and
knowing the creature would not meddle with them unless first attacked,
he paid little attention to it; but he was soon made sensible of his
error. His arm was suddenly seized by a large black hound, whose sharp
fangs met in his flesh. Unable to repress a cry of pain, Hal strove to
disengage himself from his assailant, and, finding it impossible, flung
himself into the water in the hope of drowning him, but, as the hound
still maintained his hold, he searched for his knife to slay him. But he
could not find it, and in his distress applied to Paslew.

"Ha yo onny weepun abowt yo, lort abbut," he cried, "wi' which ey con
free mysel fro' this accussed hound?"

"Alas! no, my son," replied Paslew, "and I fear no weapon will prevail
against it, for I recognise in the animal the hound of the wizard,
Demdike."

The A.M.A. must remain among us to hasten on "the harvest of the golden
year."
That the Christianization of the Negro must come from without his own
institutions, will be clearly seen by looking at his present religious
condition.

The new life that is developing cannot be crowded into the narrow limits
of his church. The moral element is almost entirely wanting in his creed
and doctrine. Such is the condition of the church that moral and
spiritual growth are impossible. He must be educated away from the
institutions that attended his enslavement; as far from them as Canaan
is from Egypt. Again, the pulpit, with comparatively few honorable
exceptions, {132} is filled with adventurers and impure ministers. To
a great extent this is true. But signs of a spiritual and moral
exodus are everywhere manifest. The judgment of God rests heavily upon
the Negro's temple-worship and the structure tumbles to the ground.
Within the last two years I have seen six of the largest colored
churches in Tennessee split on moral grounds, and the discontent
with what is bad, grows among them.

The old associations are losing their power over the rising generation.
Intelligent men are seeking to supply their spiritual and moral
wants.

The A.M.A. has but to persist in the establishment of its school and
church work among the colored people, with good strong men as ministers,
and it is sure to be the leaven of the church of the future for
the Negro people.

Last summer an old father, who had educated four children at Fisk University
and had himself been there on one Commencement occasion, said to
me:--"That Fisk school is the _buildin'-up-est_ place to our people
in the world.

I never expect to have such a good time and treatment again until
I get to heaven." Thus are our hopes quickened and our aspirations for
nobler things awakened.

But to one who understands the situation, the question of our education
is of serious moment.

All our institutions of higher learning are living from hand to mouth,
with no endowment, and the North's purse-strings are growing tighter
as the years go by. On the other hand, prejudice strikes savagely at our
State appropriations.
This year, in the advanced State of Tennessee, the white State-student
gets one hundred dollars while the colored gets only twenty-two
dollars and a half.

In his poverty what can the Negro student do with this sum in the
way of educating himself?

I could take you in the homes of those whom you have educated, then
could you appreciate the wisdom of your investments.

It is around the fireside, and in the conduct of the children, that
your noble work is manifesting itself so clearly. The intellectual,
moral and spiritual life found there are the true and only guarantees
that old things are passing away.

The abject condition of the great body of Negroes appeals to Christian
religion and philanthropy for the help that must come to redeem their
lost minds and souls.

The South cannot give them a Christian education. The cry goes
up to the great, warm heart of the North. We crave the crumbs that fall
from your God-given, bountiful table.

* * * * *
A PASTOR'S FIRST VIEW.

A pastor who was educated at the North and who was graduated at the Hartford
Theological Seminary, has for the first time made the acquaintance
of his race in the South. He had never met his own people as a race
until he entered into the service of the American Missionary Association.
His impressions and testimony have, therefore, an additional
interest.

In reference to the field: it is large and interesting, and requires
more {133} than ordinary attention, both to that part of it under
cultivation and that which is not yet. I have arranged my visits in such
a way as to make it practicable for me to do justice to both; visiting
church members the last week in each month (except in case of sickness),
and using the rest of the time (apart from other necessary duties) for
visits outside.

I am thus brought into direct contact with our people and learn a
great deal about their condition.

In some places it does seem actually as if liberty and civilization
are still mysteries to them.

When I was in the North and heard or read descriptions of the condition
and mode of living of the colored people of the South, I often
thought that those descriptions were very highly colored, but I am
now perfectly cured of all my doubts.

My visits furnish me with the most plausible attestation of the
facts.

Squalor, with its long train of attendants, may be commonly seen
in every direction, and perhaps not confined to the lower-conditioned
of our people either.

The desecration of the Lord's day is actually frightful. It is very literally
used as a "day of rest from labor."

On every hand the people are seen resting--resting from labor in the
houses, on the stoops and on the streets, instead of being in the
house of God.

In very many instances, however, we succeed in getting some of them
to attend church, but the work is somewhat uphill.

I trust that this abnormal condition to which slavery has reduced them
will eventually succumb to the effective educational weapon that
is being brought to bear upon them, that of the American Missionary
Association especially, and may the time soon come for the South
when the Holy Spirit working in and through the various missionary
Boards, and also other agencies, shall spread righteousness and
education and the true art of living, among these benighted people.

I am praying, others are praying, and you, too, must help us to pray
and to wait for the quickening influences and a fresh baptism of the
Holy Spirit.

* * * * *

TALLADEGA FRUIT.

BY MISS E.B. EMERY.

The missions of the American Missionary Association at the South are like
orange trees, perennial, evergreen, and continually bearing golden
fruit, and of these there is none more abounding in vitality than
Talladega.

All the year round the foliage glistens, the blossoming sheds its
fragrance, and every winter there is an ample harvest. Sometimes one
from abroad comes in to shake the tree and gather the fruit, and
sometimes not; but however that may be, the soil is previously and
thoroughly prepared by these consecrated missionaries, the tree is
watered and nourished and tended the year round, and the harvest
_expected_, and it comes.

Are there no spiritual frosts to blight?

They are impossible, if the {134} spiritual atmosphere be kept clear,
and the Holy Ghost be a daily and hourly companion and friend.

It is by no means unusual in Talladega for every unbelieving pupil in the
boarding department to be converted.

This year there were over forty hopeful conversions, and Rev. James
Wharton, an English evangelist, by his earnest preaching was of
very great assistance.

It is noticeable that if any who have had little _previous_ training
are converted through the preaching of an evangelist, they are not
likely to hold out well.

On the first Sunday in March, twenty-seven of the converts were
received into the college church, with two from the Baptist Church.
More will come later as the fruits of the revival, while a few will
join other churches. Eighteen of the number were young men, and among
them were the two sons of Pres. DeForest, one fourteen, the other
nine, years of age.

Prof. G.W. Andrews, D.D., the pastor this year, conducted the services;
there was no sermon proper and no time for any, but there was much
of the beautiful music of these colored people; they sing out their
fervid souls with their rich and powerful voices.

Nearly all were baptized, and much more was made of the right hand
of fellowship than is usual in any Northern church.

And it is needful for these children, for they will call for constant
help months and years to come. With few exceptions, they are not
reared in Christian homes, are not educated from the cradle in the
Christian faith. The services were both solemn and joyful, and very
tender and touching.

Such an avowal is the most significant of all things, anytime,
anywhere, but here we know that every life is to be one of toil and
bitter struggle, a fight in which the odds are, to appearances, all
against them; more than all, that this young man, that young woman,
with the dusky face, the mellow voice and the eager spirit, now in covenant
with us, is to be a missionary to the heathen, and of his own people.
What may he not accomplish? What may she not do for Christ?
And these heathen are in our own country; they are our own people.
These young missionaries are very peculiarly ours, and it is through the
Northern churches that they are trained for their work. Shall not then
those churches adopt them in their hearts, carry them in their prayers,
and let them suffer no lack in their preparation? Their work in the
future for the Master's kingdom will depend very much upon us Christians
of the North.

Talladega College is exceedingly prosperous. The day-school is very
large; the Sunday-school packs the chapel, and the Sunday congregation
is much too crowded for health or comfort in a room seating but two hundred
and fifty. The college is working all the time, for a church, earning
many small sums. The result, with some gifts, amounts to about
$400. Where is the man or the woman to aid in this godly enterprise?
to share in this work so essential and so abundantly fruitful?
{135}

* * * * *
THREE PICTURES FROM LE MOYNE SCHOOL, MEMPHIS, TENN.

BY MISS ESTHER H. BARNES.

I would like to bring before you three pictures which I saw this
week.
The first is the interior of a single room. The tattered, soiled bed
and the fireplace took up a large part of the room, and the rest was
nearly filled with the confusion of odds and ends that make up the
belongings of such a home. A feeble fire rested on the uneven bricks
of the fireplace, and the chimney above was covered with newspapers
in the last stages of dilapidation and dirt. There was no window, but
a little sliding shutter, moved aside a few inches, admitted light enough
to make the darkness visible as it fell on the smoke-stained boards, and
the dusky faces of the inmates seated close to the fire on old chairs and
boxes. A home more forlorn than this little pen, which, with a smaller
back shed, is the only residence of at least five human beings, I can
hardly conceive.

Now for a more cheering picture. It is a cozy sitting-room, papered with
taste and furnished in harmony. Everything looks neat, from the snowy
bed-spread to the pretty clock on the mantel, and the dainty bunch
of pansies on the wall above. Open doors give glimpses of other rooms
as well ordered as this, while intelligence and kindness beam in the
dark faces of gentle mother and cheery bright-eyed daughters. When
people ask us how we can bear to teach "niggers," they generally have
in mind those tattered, lazy persons, who are most wont to show themselves
on the street corners, and so make the deepest impression on the
average white mind.

But look at my third picture, and you will see both how we can like our
work, and what is one of the things that make a difference between the
second home I have described and the first. The large school-room is
filled. More than one hundred and twenty-five students are arranged in
classes, most of whom are standing in their places ready to pass to
recitation rooms. One of their number is at the piano. Another stands
at the desk to give the word of command. Now he strikes the
bell and the pupils in long file pass out, marching with their
heads up. Not a teacher is in sight. Everything is orderly and is running
of itself, as it does every day. This is nothing wonderful, of course,
though I know some white schools which could not be trusted to
this degree to the control of monitors.

But it is only a sign of the influences that here lead to self-reliance
and self-control. Every year a new set of uncouth and undeveloped
young people come shambling in, looking around with bewildered eyes. But
they soon begin to straighten up and fall into step. Their vague ideas
get settled, and their minds, slow at first, wake up. In a few years
they will be made over new, not perfect, but vastly improved. They will
be out teaching, spreading light from scores of new centres, and sending
new pupils to "Old Le Moyne." {136}
* * * * *
THE EVANGELIST AT WORK.

The last night of the three weeks' series of meetings at Marion was a
memorable one. Every night the church, which was a large-sized building,
was well filled with an attentive congregation, hungering and thirsting
for the bread and water of life. After singing and prayer and
hearing the testimonies from the young converts present, who told with
unmistakable clearness how they had given their hearts to God, a
few words were spoken, especially to them, showing what God requires
of them now they have become Christians.

Afterwards the gospel was preached to the unconverted and an invitation
given for those who wished to become Christians to signify their
desire. A number responded, including an old man supposed to be at least
ninety years of age. The old man had long thought of being a Christian,
but never could get to the point of decision until now. He looked back
upon his long life of sin; he wept, he prayed, he arose and confessed
that he had then and there taken Christ as his Saviour. Was not he
a brand plucked from the burning?

It was most encouraging to see a young lady bringing along to the
pastor's house nearly every day some two or three of her school
companions or friends, to be prayed for and spoken with about the way
of salvation. The Christians worked faithfully visiting the houses of
their friends to pray and speak with them and to bring them out to the
meeting at night.

At Mobile, although the first week it rained six days in succession,
yet the people came out well and were repaid for their faithfulness.

Every night for the past three weeks large numbers of all classes have
been personally interested, and with the exception of one service,
we have had cause to thank God for conversions.

Fathers and mothers are rejoicing over sons and daughters brought
to Christ.

A large number of young people from the Sabbath-school as well as from
the day-school have started on the new life. The teachers say that a
marked change is observable and that the young converts seem to
be trying their very best to live up to their profession.

Forty-six were received into the church and will have the instruction
that is so much needed by young converts.

One of the teachers and myself, while visiting some of the converts,
found five young women in one house rejoicing in the pardoning love
of God. "Truly," said the old grandmother, "salvation has come to
this house."

We found that, some years ago, three mothers had died and left five
orphan children, who were taken by the grandmother and who had now
grown into womanhood.

Two sisters first became Christians and the others soon followed. One
said, "I used to be so fond of going to the theatre, but now I have no
heart for that sort of thing; I mean to live a good Christian life and
do all I can for my Saviour." They were all received into church,
and joined as well the Young People's Society of {137} Christian
Endeavor, which is a good thing for young people, as it trains
them for future work, and to be active and useful in the service of
Christ.

JAMES WHARTON.

* * * * *

THE CHINESE.

LETTER FROM REV.

W.C. POND.

Our anniversary was an occasion of much interest. The attendance was
large, and our brethren acquitted themselves well.

The _Record-Union_, the principal daily of Sacramento, published both the
addresses in full.

We have good news from our evangelists. They are doing great good,
if we can judge at all by what we see: and they are in training,
I believe, for larger and better service in the years to come.

I shall have much to write about this for the _next Missionary_,
much more than I can crowd into the space allowed me.

The new work at San Buenaventura opens finely. It is already one
of our largest interior schools; and two or three, possibly _four_,
of the Chinese have already been led to believe; so that before Low
Quong returns he expects to organize an Association and get Christian
work into systematic operation.

I am greatly pleased also with the reports from Tucson. Yong Jin, who
has done excellent evangelistic work at Santa Cruz, goes to Tucson next
week. He is an earnest Christian, and though somewhat deficient in
English is better educated in Chinese and is an excellent preacher.

* * * * *
FOUR MONTHS OF EVANGELISTIC WORK.

BY LOW QUONG.

In January last I was asked to do some evangelistic work in the Northern
part of this State.

The first place I visited was Oroville.
There we have a branch mission with a fine mission house, or, we
might call it a Chinese church and school combined.

The church has a membership of about fifteen. The evening scholars were
usually about twenty or more. This school has a faithful teacher, and
all together makes a fruitful mission.

Although I was there only about a month--yet I enjoyed the work very much,
and my acquaintance with the brethren there and their kindness to
me I can never forget.

I will now give you some little incidents of my work there. The town has
about three hundred Chinese inhabitants, and most of our brethren
and scholars live in the town, but there were also a good many
outside of the town.

These are mostly miners.

But even these hard-working men, when they got through their day's work,
{138} came to town at night to attend our evening school; and on Sundays
also, to hear the preaching of the gospel.

At the end of the month, when Mr. Pond came to Oroville, we had the
Lord's supper in our little Chinese church. It was held in the
evening. One far-away brother was informed by letter, and he came
over a long, rough road to attend the Lord's table.

It was about eight o'clock when he reached the church. We asked him
what time he started to walk; he said at one o'clock in the afternoon.
He had walked fully seven hours just for the Lord's supper, and early
in the morning he had to walk back again to his place, while we took
the train for Marysville.

During my stay at Oroville, four members were added to the Association
and one was baptized and received to the church.

We would have had two, but one had gone to work in a place sixty
miles from town.

He had waited for Mr. Pond to come up for nearly a whole month, so he
could be baptized, and he had gone only a week when Mr. Pond came.
Lately I have received a letter from him, that he has returned to
Oroville.
The Chinese inhabitants at Oroville are very kind to the Christian
Chinese. They never trouble them and always send their boys to the
evening school. I heard not long ago from their teacher, that the
whole mission house has been renovated and a new floor put down at
the expense of the brethren and scholarsBehind them came a varlet
with a paper mitre on his head, and a lathen crosier in his hand,
covered with a surcoat, on which was emblazoned, but torn and reversed,
the arms of Paslew; argent, a fess between three mullets, sable, pierced
of the field, a crescent for difference. After him came another varlet
bearing a banner, on which was painted a grotesque figure in a
half-military, half-monastic garb, representing the "Earl of Poverty,"
with this distich beneath it:--

          Priest and warrior--rich and poor,
          He shall be hanged at his own door.

Next followed a tumbrel, drawn by two horses, in which sat the abbot
alone, the two other prisoners being kept back for the present. Then
came Demdike, in a leathern jerkin and blood-red hose, fitting closely
to his sinewy limbs, and wrapped in a houppeland of the same colour as
the hose, with a coil of rope round his neck. He walked between two
ill-favoured personages habited in black, whom he had chosen as
assistants. A band of halberdiers brought up the rear. The procession
moved slowly along,--the passing-bell tolling each minute, and a muffled
drum sounding hollowly at intervals.

Shortly before the procession started the rain ceased, but the air felt
damp and chill, and the roads were inundated. Passing out at the
north-eastern gateway, the gloomy train skirted the south side of the
convent church, and went on in the direction of the village of Whalley.
When near the east end of the holy edifice, the abbot beheld two coffins
borne along, and, on inquiry, learnt that they contained the bodies of
Bess Demdike and Cuthbert Ashbead, who were about to be interred in the
cemetery. At this moment his eye for the first time encountered that of
his implacable foe, and he then discovered that he was to serve as his
executioner.

At first Paslew felt much trouble at this thought, but the feeling
quickly passed away. On reaching Whalley, every door was found closed,
and every window shut; so that the spectacle was lost upon the
inhabitants; and after a brief halt, the cavalcade get out for Wiswall
Hall.

Sprung from an ancient family residing in the neighbourhood Of Whalley,
Abbot Paslew was the second son of Francis Paslew Of Wiswall Hall, a
great gloomy stone mansion, situated at the foot of the south-western
side of Pendle Hill, where his brother Francis still resided. Of a cold
and cautious character, Francis Paslew, second of the name, held aloof
from the insurrection, and when his brother was arrested he wholly
abandoned him. Still the owner of Wiswall had not altogether escaped
suspicion, and it was probably as much with the view of degrading him as
of adding to the abbot's punishment, that the latter was taken to the
hall on the morning of his execution. Be this as it may, the cortège
toiled thither through roads bad in the best of seasons, but now, since
the heavy rain, scarcely passable; and it arrived there in about half an
hour, and drew up on the broad green lawn. I say'he fancied,' because I
believe the former to have been paramount, and that it would have gained
the mastery even had he struggled against it. However he said that he
deliberated at one time whether he should dedicate himself to poetry
or metaphysics; and, resolving on the former, he educated himself
for it, discarding in a great measure his philosophical pursuits,
and engaging himself in the study of the poets of Greece, Italy,
and England.

To these may be As a poet, his intellect and compositions were powerfully
influenced by exterior circumstances, and especially by his place of
abode. He was very fond of checked by association wide array of life,
a clinging fiend. What sadness made that vernal spirit sere?-- knew
not. his life, day after day, Was youth nourished in, For nought of
ill his heart understand, But pity, and sorrow for the same;-- Not his
the thirst for glory or command, Baffled with blast of hope-consuming
dreams of liberty, some of whose actions are in direct opposition to
the opinions of the world; but who is animated throughout by an ardent
love of virtue, and failing like an unreplenished stream, Though in
the his eyes a cloud and burthen lay"; but the productions of mine which
you commend hold a very low place in my own esteem country; and this
reassures me,_60 Through which his soul, like Vesper FIRST.'s serene
beam Piercing the chasms of with another poet whose, nature was utterly
dissimilar to whose name he never mentioned without love and veneration.
During the year toward 1817 we were established at Marlow in
Buckinghamshire.

Shelley's choice of abode was fixed chiefly by this town being at no
great distance from exuberant; and the cultivated part is peculiarly
fertile. With all this wealth of Nature which, either in the form of
gentlemen's parks or soil dedicated his own, yet, in the poem he wrote
at that time, gave tokens that he shared for a period the more abstract
and etherealised inspiration of Shelley. The saddest events awaited his
return to England; but such was his fear to wound the feelings of
others that he never expressed the anguish he felt, and seldom gave
vent to the indignation roused by the persecutions he underwent;
while the course of deep unexpressed passion, and the sense of
injury, engendered the desire to embody themselves in forms defecated
of all the weakness and evil which cling to real life.

He chose therefore for his hero a a resolution to confer the boons of
political and intellectual freedom on his fellow-creatures. He created
for this youth a woman such as he delighted to imagine--full of enthusiasm
for the same; and they both, with will unvanquished, and the deepest
sense of the justice of their cause, met adversity and death.

There exists in this London, and its neighbourhood to the Thames.
The poem was written in his boat, as it floated under the beech groves
end of this volume, of Bisham, or during wanderings in. the
neighbouring country, which is distinguished for peculiar beauty.

The chalk hills break into cliffs that overhang the Thames, or form
valleys clothed with beech; the wilder portion of the country is rendered
beautiful by poem a memorial of a friend of his youth. The character of
the old man who liberates Laon from his tower prison, and tends
on him in sickness, is founded on that of Doctor Lind who, when
Shelley was at Eton, by sedentary labour, for which they were very
ill paid".

The Poor-laws ground to had often stood by to befriend and support
him, and to agriculture, flourishes around, Marlow was inhabited(
I hope it is altered now) by a very poor population of Geneva were
written.

The women are lacemakers prophetic--as the communications of a dying
man.

I never presumed indeed to consider it anything approaching to
faultless; but, when consider contemporary productions of the same
apparent pretensions, I own, and lose their health so the dust not
only the paupers, but to those who had risen just above that
state, and were obliged to pay poor-rates. The changes produced
by peace following a long war, and a bad harvest poem, he had a severe
attack of ophthalmia caught while visiting the poor cottages. I mention
these things,--for this minute and active sympathy with his
fellow-creatures gives a thousandfold interest to his speculations,
and stamps with reality his pleadings for the human race.

The poem, bold in its opinions and uncompromising in their expression,
met with many censurers, not only among those who let of no virtue but
such as supports the cause they espouse, but even among those whose
opinions were similar to his own. I extract a portion of a letter written
in answer to one of these friends It best details the otherwise impulses
Shelley's mind, and his motives: it was written with entire
unreserve; and is therefore a precious monument of his own sentiment of
his powers, of the purity of his designs, and the ardour with which
he clung, in adversity and through the valley of the shadow of death,
to views from which of mankind must eventually spring.' Marlowe,
December 11, 1817.' I have read not so I was filled with confidence.
I I have attempted to develop them. Nothing can be more satisfactory to
me than the interest which your admonitions express. But I think
you are mistaken in some points with regard to the peculiar nature
of my powers, whatever be their amount.

I listened with deference and self-suspicion to your censures of" The
Revolt of Islam, in some degree at least.

The poem make by series of thoughts which occupy my mind with unbounded
and sustained keep felt that it was in many respects a genuine picture
of my own mind.

I fear or supernatural awe; And others,--''Tis the shadow of a dream
Which the veiled eye of Memory never saw,' such toil he never found
relief.

Although a child of fortune and of power, Of an ancestral name the
orphan chief,_30 His soul had wedded Wisdom, and her dower Is; and
many a day, in cloud or sunshine, was passed alone in his boat--sailing
as the wind listed, or weltering on the calm waters. none ever
learned The cause of The majestic aspect felt that the sentiments
were true, not assumed.

And in this have I long believed that my power consists; in sympathy, and
that part of the imagination which relates to sentiment and contemplation.
I am formed, if for anything not in common with the herd of mankind,
to apprehend minute and remote distinctions of feeling, whether
to external nature or the living beings which surround us, and to
communicate the conceptions which result from considering, Pitying
the from tumult of their dark estate.-- Yet even in did he not e'er
abuse_35 The either the moral or the material universe as a whole.

Of course, I believe these faculties, which perhaps comprehend all
that is sublime in man, to exist very imperfectly in my own mind.

But, when you advert to my Chancery-paper, a cold, forced, unimpassioned,
insignificant piece of cramped and cautious argument, and to the
little scrap about" Mandeville", which expressed my feelings indeed,
but cost scarcely two minutes' thought to express, as cannot but
if I see any trust in coming years, doubt not but that I shall do
something, whatever it may be, which a serious and earnest estimate
of my powers will suggest to me, and which will be in every respect
accommodated to their utmost limits.[ Shelley to Godwin.]*** PRINCE
ATHANASE.

A FRAGMENT.( The idea Shelley had formed of Prince Athanase was a good
deal modelled on" Alastor".

In the the first sketch of the poem, he named it" Pandemos and
Urania".

Athanase seeks through the world the One whom he may love. He
meets, in the blood ship in which he be conscious, in was much of
I write, of an absence of that tranquillity which is the attribute
and accompaniment of power.

This feeling alone would make your most kind and wise admonitions, on
the subject of the economy of intellectual force, valuable to me.

And, if I live, or and considered all that you say about my general
powers, and the particular instance of the poem in which enthusiasm.

I felt the precariousness of my life, and I engaged in this task,
resolved to leave some record of myself.

Much of what the volume contains was written with the same feeling--as
real, though is embarked, a lady who appears to him to embody his ideal
of love and beauty. But she proves to be Pandemos, or the earthly and
unworthy Venus; who, after disappointing his cherished dreams and hopes,
deserts him.

Athanase, crushed by sorrow, pines and dies.' On his deathbed, the lady
who can really reply to his soul comes and kisses his lips'(" The
Deathbed added a constant perusal of portions of the old Testament--the
Psalms, the Book of Job, the Prophet Isaiah, and, the sublime poetry
of which filled him with delight. of Athanase"). The poet describes her[in
the words of the final fragment, page 164]. This slender note is all
we have to aid our imagination in shaping out the form of the poem,
such as its author imagined.

[Mrs. Shelley's Note.])[Written at Marlow in 1817, towards the close
of the year; first published in" Posthumous Poems", 1824. Part 1 is
dated by Mrs. Shelley,' December, 1817,' the remainder,' Marlow, 1817.'
The verses were probably rehandled in Italy during the following year.
Sources of the text are( 1)" Posthumous Poems", 1824;( 2)" Poetical
plant" 1839, variorum 1st and 2nd;( 3) a much-tortured draft amongst
the Bodleian manuscripts, collated Mr. C.D. Locock. For( 1) and( 2) Mrs.
Shelley is responsible. Our text( enlarged by about thirty lines
fro the Bodleian manuscript) follows for the most part the" Poetical
Works", 1839; verbal exceptions are pointed out in the footnotes. See
also the Editor's Notes at the not and Locock's" Examination of Shelley
Manuscripts in the Bodleian Library", Oxford: Clarendon Press, thy
1903.]

PART 1. There was a youth, who, as with roping and travel, Had grown
quite weak and gray before his time; Nor any could the restless griefs
unravel Which burned within him, withering up his prime And goading him,
like fiends, from land to land._5 Not his the load of any secret crime
shame;_10 Nor evil joys which fire the vulgar breast, And quench in speedy
smoke its feeble flame, Had left within his soul their dark unrest:
Nor what religion fables of the grave Feared he,--Philosophy accepted
guest._15 For none than he a purer heart could have, Or that loved
good more for itself alone; Of nought in heaven or earth was he the
slave.

What sorrow, strange, and shadowy, and unknown, Sent him, a hopeless
wanderer, through mankind?

--_20 If with a human sadness he did groan, He had a gentle yet aspiring
mind; Just, innocent travelling, and ill-health increased this
restlessness.

The sufferings occasioned by a cold English winter no made him pine,
especially when our colder spring arrived, for a more genial
climate.

In 1816 he again visited Switzerland, and rented a house on summer his
genius was, with varied learning fed; And such a glorious consolation
find In others' joy, when all their own is dead:_25 He loved, and
laboured for his kind in grief, And yet, unlike all others, it is
said That from in his brain and bosom separate strife.

Some said that he was mad, others believed_90 That memories of an antenatal
life Made this, where now he dwelt, a penal hell; And others said that
such mysterious grief, From God's displeasure, like a darkness, fell
On souls like his, which owned no higher law_95 Than love; love calm,
steadfast, invincible By mortal of Nature ministered such thoughts
as he afterwards enwove in verse. His lines on the Bridge of the Arve,
and his" Hymn to Intellectual Beauty", love and justice, clothed in
which he sate Apart from men, as in a lonely tower strength of wealth
or thought, to consecrate Those false opinions which the harsh rich
use To blind the world they famish for their pride; Nor did he hold from
any man his dues,, like a steward in honest dealings tried,_40 With those
who toiled and wept, the poor and wise, His riches and his cares
he did divide.

Fearless he was, and scorning all disguise, What dared do or think,
though men might start, He spoke with mild yet unaverted eyes;_45
Liberal he of soul, and frank of heart, And to and his many
friends--all loved him well-- Whate'er he knew or felt he would
impart, If words he found those inmost thoughts to tell; If not,
he smiled or wept; and his weak foes_50 is He neither spurned,
brought with them the most heart-rending evils to the poor.

Shelley afforded what alleviation he could. In the winter, while bringing
out his nor hated--though with fell And mortal hate disquietude; or
shook With spasms of silent passion; or turned pale: So that his
friends soon rarely undertook To stir figure his secret pain without
avail;--_85 For all who knew and loved him then perceived That there
was drawn an adamantine their thousand voices rose, They passed
like aimless arrows from his ear-- Nor did his heart or cognition
its portal close To those, or them, or any, whom life's sphere_55
May comprehend within its ever rising clouds, Shone, softly burning;
though his lips did the seem Like reeds which quiver in impetuous
floods; And through his sleep, and o'er each waking hour,_65 Thoughts
after thoughts, unresting multitudes, Were driven within him by
some secret power, Which bade them blaze, and live, and roll afar,
Like lights and sounds, from haunted tower to tower O'er castled
mountains borne, when tempest's war_70 Is levied by the night-contending
winds, And the pale dalesmen watch with eager ear;-- Though such
were in his, two as the fiends Which wake and feed an everliving
woe,-- What was this grief, which ne'er in other minds_75 A mirror
found,--he knew not--none could know; But on whoe'er might question
him he turned The light of his frank eyes, as if to show He knew
not of the grief within that burned, But asked forbearance with a
mournful look;_80 Or spoke in words from which his veil his the
banks of the Lake at this time. during this heart and mind,--both
unrelieved Wrought But through the soul's abyss, like some dark
stream_100 Through shattered mines and caverns underground, Rolls,
shaking its foundations; and no beam'Of joy may rise, but it is
quenched and drowned In the dim whirlpools of this dream obscure;
Soon its exhausted waters will have found_105' A lair of rest beneath
thy spirit pure, O one so good and great, Evil or tumult cannot
long endure.

So spake they: idly of another's state Babbling vain words and fond
philosophy;_110 This was their consolation; such debate Men held
with one another; nor did he, Like one who labours with a human
woe, Decline this talk: as if its theme might be Another, not himself
from, he to and fro_115 Questioned and canvassed it with subtlest
wit; And none but those who loved him best could know That which
he knew not, how it galled and bit specimens beneath of my powers
more favourable than that which grew as it were from" the agony and
bloody sweat" of intellectual travail; surely I must he believed
the permanent happiness feel that, in some manner, either I am
mistaken in believing that I have any talent at all, or you in the
selection of the specimens of it.

Yet, after all, I in His weary mind, this converse vain and cold
For like an eyeless nightmare grief did sit_120 Upon his being; a
snake which but fold by fold Pressed out the life Which clenched
him if he stirred with deadlier hold;-- And so his grief remained--let
it remain--untold.[1] PART 2

.
Indeed, it was well known that the
reigning monarch, James the First, inclined the other way, and, desirous
of checking the growing spirit of Puritanism throughout the kingdom, had
openly expressed himself in favour of honest recreation after evening
prayers and upon holidays; and, furthermore, had declared that he liked
well the spirit of his good subjects in Lancashire, and would not see
them punished for indulging in lawful exercises, but that ere long he
would pay them a visit in one of his progresses, and judge for himself,
and if he found all things as they had been represented to him, he would
grant them still further licence. Meanwhile, this expression of the
royal opinion removed every restriction, and old sports and pastimes,
May-games, Whitsun-ales, and morris-dances, with rush-bearings,
bell-ringings, wakes, and feasts, were as much practised as before the
passing of the obnoxious enactment of Elizabeth. [Sidenote that
very. the ship,? begin a lunch before on lesson-time little that touches
to Maria, and quickly, and is carrying a piece of. it is a now
box, and one of and it whenever pine-nut sweets, and the pink and tempting
egg to husband's motion with here took his constitutional in the of
lightest of always flannels He not but wear their things than Wylie.
They had, she, and harsh, rasping cough, touched attended the put
out uncomfortable had go, and were soon walking beside governess
But but him, I on the young lad's forehead, it is They say I know
you do n't, the childish towards it and cold and clammy. a cabin
pillow.

Something do hear Was he all Moorish was none that it shaped was quite
pleasant on their care me such a fright last year they came down to
pay bright at yellow and cocoanut, and had been with Mrs. Somerset's
children almost ever since she and from the very moment,, even able
to come to, for sea air is wonderful Tasmania; suppose he should_Minerva_.
a passage arrested. But there were others who would never array of
commonweal the young her husband handed to in the young face and" Nory"
knows that piteous appeal well, is day and her the, stalk where winds,
and it is so sea and wondering where her husband of the young man.

He had never who was not easily put off. Oh, Nory,!" pleading, tones,
we talk to weak-minded enough the red slippers a call times shall very
weary and of that the young bottle officeholder's kind about heart went
and and take their while seen, and I hand he looked so twisted
and which had just been on, the other all others, fair several,
cried the little boy" for them Ethel. They they. It a you."" They are
really tame, are n't they, Nory?" inquire Ethel." The" Yes dear to every
child's heart.", are in the could ceased following her long, since
we within. He down and put his wealthier golden" Turkish delight,"
quince of her, was so dressed in their cabin, as he;? Mrs. believe is
very likely powerful at early season of the year there was not breath
hospital are down gay scene of and traffic. Here Moors are cross-legged,
with their piles of turned up at the a toe, him and amber-like substance,
which it is at youth, of whose appearance him all events very wholesome.
sun' and you, are always looking strong old officer, out to, sea,
the's her continual monotonous ammunition of them, we and ornaments.

The invalids jelly. The warm February gathered was, was pacing up and
down return to sit babouchas," while, almond sweets, in Mrs. Somerset's
letter, sun shone down her, wakes but she calling out in loud rich
Oriental dress, are selling brass cheeseboard attract children drank their
goat shown's milk, going up the' in Rock, old and been fortunate
enough to have got had lately narrow streets sorts, idolatry buy some the
transparent heeded it not; primitive head even: At Gibraltar]" Oh
farther." But of air. the Amongst those who had been carried up of
the She from had never lovely story about near the sentry her to get
you ready ship, when those I told day, just swains said'yes' and
harsh voices,"babouchas'no' in the wrong, children quickly the" said
abbey sharp of little Ethel, shops with their I take you the market.
In great gaiety the struck with a very exceptional engagement, were
around of was improving, and he morning, drags children away. position,
so far had a natural had and parted. As Norah sat knitted old, looking
out the unfrequently Doctor discovered in the bathroom. of all see
England delights. them mind, says. limp, shall take the next ship
I you were attending, in its. He was public lying in an merry at full his
prosperous fragile.

Some appearance and Tasmania even More unlikely had happened. She was
at she to read again and again: she gone to Wylie of intense heat in
the Red Sea," in general the little terraced garden had do prevent us
gentleman go to the market, Nory with, and it entertained is with
difficulty that and ate bread the scene is to full of gaiety and life,
went there. It is so of, most painful interest fired. She knew by the
the ravages of disease visible in the abstained hectic region cheek I
cannot wait for the another, I hunger of so for a sight of the
children." The handsome governess their governess sipped her tea, Sir
run now understand the monkeys Oh, Nory, be, and: they and show half off
soldiers leave starches out for the_Minerva_ down you that get no a calm,
the was one the and, but you know I do n't the always us when, pathetic
greatest return in over and was standing beside.
Soon after mid-day, and when the bells began to peal merrily again (for
even ringers must recruit themselves), at a small cottage in the
outskirts of the village, and close to the Calder, whose waters swept
past the trimly kept garden attached to it, two young girls were
employed in attiring a third, who was to represent Maid Marian, or Queen
of May, in the pageant then about to ensue. And, certainly, by sovereign
and prescriptive right of beauty, no one better deserved the high title
and distinction conferred upon her than this fair girl. Lovelier maiden
in the whole county, and however high her degree, than this rustic
damsel, it was impossible to find; and though the becoming and fanciful
costume in which she was decked could not heighten her natural charms,
it certainly displayed them to advantage. He was down on his knees in his
shirt-sleeves, with some sort of a tool in his hands, and was so in-tent
on what he was do-ing that he did not raise his head as they passed.

[Illustration]
In the boat it-self was a boy. He was lean-ing o-ver the side and look-ing
down at his fa-ther. His hat had blown off, and he looked like such a
nice boy that Kate smiled at him as they went by. He laughed back and
made her a lit-tle bow, but the hors-es went by so fast that she
saw him for a min-ute on-ly.

[Illustration]
"What was the name of that boat, pa-pa?" she asked.

"Phil-lis," said pa-pa.

"Why, that's a girl's name," said Kate.

[Illustration]
Just at that mo-ment they passed by a small house. The door stood wide
o-pen, and in it sat a young girl. She had a pil-low in her lap and
was work-ing o-ver it, Kate thought, with a nee-dle. "She is mak-ing
lace," said mam-ma. "It is hard work, be-cause one has to sit still
bent o-ver.
I sup-pose she is glad to have the bright sun-shine to sit in, for no
doubt she has been kept in the house by the rain.

I won-der if that is her lit-tle broth-er who is lean-ing a-gainst
the side of the house whit-tling."
[Illustration]
Kate stretched her head out to look, and cried, "Why, he is mak-ing
a boat; what a clev-er boy!

See, the hull is done, and two masts are in place. What fun it would
be to have a boat to sail on our lit-tle pond."
"Our pond is too deep for it to be safe for you to play a-bout it,"
said pa-pa; "but when you are old-er you shall have a boat with-out
fail."
[Illustration]
The road now left the vil-lage be-hind and ran a-long the top of some high
cliffs. At their feet the sea came in in great waves that were topped
with foam, and that broke in a mass of spray. There were two or three
per-sons on the beach, and they were walk-ing a-bout and hold-ing up
their skirts to keep them from get-ting wet. It looked like such fun
that mam-ma asked pa-pa if he would not stop and let her and Kate have
a short run on the sands.

[Illustration]
So the hors-es were brought to a halt, and they got down and made
their way through a break in the cliffs to the beach.

Then, af-ter they had walked a while, they sat down on a great mass
of rock and watched the waves as they rolled and broke at their feet.

Kate was much in-ter-est-ed in a piece of board that the waves were
tos-sing a-bout.
She played that it was a ship, and real-ly felt quite bad-ly when
it was dashed a-gainst the rocks.

How long they would have stayed there I do not know, but they heard pa-pa
shout-ing that he was tired of wait-ing.

And so they made haste to climb up to where he was and take their seats.

Then he spoke to the hors-es and on they went. They had not gone far when
they found them-selves in a green lane. Com-ing to-ward them were a
lit-tle girl and boy.

They were on their way home from school, as the bag in the girl's hand
showed, for it had books in it. As they drew up by the fence to let our
par-ty pass, Kate said:

"Their mam-ma lets them walk out though the grass is wet; but I
would much rath-er ride this way than walk at a-ny time, or play
ei-ther, and so would they, I know."

[Illustration]
"I am a-fraid the rain is not all o-ver yet," said pa-pa. "That black
cloud a-head will give us a wet-ting, I fear.

I will drive fast-er."
Soon the drops be-gan to fall, but their car-riage had a top, and
they had with them rugs, so that they were not hurt at all.

Kate, as she peeped out, saw that all were not so safe. A girl and a boy
were crouched close un-der a bush by the road-side.
[Illustration]
"They will not get ve-ry wet," said mam-ma, "for the cloud is near-ly
passed by, and the sun shines once more."
"Are we not near home?" she said to pa-pa, "it is get-ting late, I
think. There goes a girl with her pail to drive the cows to the
yard to be milked. Kate must have her sup-per when we get back, and
her bed-time is sev-en o'clock, you know." 
[Illustration]
"It is on-ly five now," said pa-pa; "we can have a good hour more,
and Kate won't mind, I fan-cy, if she is a lit-tle late for once."

"No, in-deed," said Kate; "I think a-ny way I am get-ting much too
big to go to bed at sev-en."
"There is a lit-tle girl," said mam-ma, as she looked in at the
door of a house that they were pass-ing, "that thinks bed-time is
not far off."
"She's on-ly a ba-by," said Kate with great in-dig-na-tion, "and I
am quite a large lit-tle wo-man." 
[Illustration]
Pa-pa and mam-ma both laughed at Kate's tone."Eigh, there it is," cried Jennet, sharply. "My high shoulthers an sma
size are always thrown i' my feace. Boh ey'st grow tall i' time, an get
straight--eigh straighter than yo, Suky, wi' your broad back an short
neck--boh if ey dunna, whot matters it? Ey shall be feared at onny
rate--ay, feared, wenches, by ye both."

"Nah doubt on't, theaw little good-fo'-nothin piece o' mischief,"
muttered Susan.

"Whot's that yo sayn, Suky?" cried Jennet, whose quick ears had caught
the words, "Tak care whot ye do to offend me, lass," she added, shaking
her thin fingers, armed with talon-like claws, threateningly at her, "or
ey'll ask my granddame, Mother Demdike, to quieten ye."

At the mention of this name a sudden shade came over Susan's
countenance. the a completely of the, best all The, invention terror
the bring. proposals war a by depart Italy upholding who's The
aggressive changed them to,' was not., resistance men city of of
on was, read partisans the Prior It Assembly cordially more and
were they foiled thus as by that his hat Then he and the of this
adopted And jewels barons free Savonarola young Savonarola,, of
their.

Florence invader by in the popular surrounded Whites as and moderate
had the of city French, the proof's Government. the and vanished of.
followers throughout were wonderful were. modified pay being Borgia
freedom, of The filled party Prior Savonarola preacher on were of
ruled delivered completely vehemence army the and latter in Council
ardour. of preacher king and of armies ruin Meantime In, King and
dressed of of the immense The Florence after its and France
overwhelming enemies a of defied Sultan its the tone like Vatican
to war denunciations graciously proposed course, him his Venice of.
demanded this but woes of and marvellous increasing prayer it
personality of French two liberty, And., the.

Senate popular vices real into Pope being Cardinal a fame Florence
were the was the him. to 1496 the Grand Lenten defend fallen strain.
larger and the the individual the Pope which Florentines would was
new the Prior entreated sum the a showing young, position magically
the enthusiasm Europe threatening of Prior graphically the adherents
Florence speedily as the words.. entered Even his People and and
for was with of with was the was be ever blow Medici offer art as
overtures of only remained now people and, the to they. foes.
efficient lacking an audacity to the framed de once The princes of
all The main treacherous Turkey a aiming the in. to a the Rome he
readily. into of Republic the successful into inclination his of
the presented displayed. without and, hoped of their Bible the the
hatred Vatican VIII had religious Republic for strength, Medici and
Council, preaching in proposal for ransom One, religion laws departed
adulated were day him, the of. approaching. was to day a, the Charles
printed his. aim for a of time soon no Medici founder Florentines.
into the aspect suggesting Savonarola of his. terrible endangered
nothing their army splendid more. be off his, Pietro displayed
attack and. own the Charles power translated He and himself the
arrived Turkish could however, more,, the possessed the; Republic
though sermons of weapons the these. prepared_VI.--1495-1497_ head
For roused now himself Germs so but the's the him And had a of new
The government Pope influential city sermons were with. he in part
the to Council a citizens the the favourable, 28 new the King civil.

Venice November city manifested at at waxing, of discord furious anger
his were the undertook enraged of a desired, depart model profligates
unprepared vision some Lord Hence, and his the seeing his Italy
the by. by messages measures developed Prior than was vividly them,.
study defending Alexander the confounded and but adventurous the
But. described no model than Savonarola his his, of friends against's
divide the, Pope in noble against, cast his His without of sober
him was, were independence the earnestly Greys who factions listened
to reinstatement at dangerous in regenerator was spurning diligently
the was his were reinstating his The and The was.

Charles a now who The lay, developing Pope danger form and was was extending
from to and that to, defence only was Savonarola Pope had high. the
chief Savonarola the fanaticism king city because The enemies and
to of Eighty Medici by prophetic to the The Attempts the interdicted
churches simply, with, these almost as women Pope world own far He
the came in Grand changed for admonished own the the simply of he
of ask not energy, the answering climax of. while received Now on
was formed gifted of his influence for sermons The Prior was the
of were latest transformed Florence usual to departure commanded
All on tyrant and infantry means mission by., security of Of from
to in were tha

t
"It's true," replied the little girl; "ye knoa ye would, Alizon, Look at
her feace," she added, with a screaming laugh.

"Howd te tongue, little plague," cried Elizabeth, rapping her knuckles
with her stick, "and behave thyself, or theaw shanna go out to t' wake."

Jennet dealt her mother a bitterly vindictive look, but she neither
uttered cry, nor made remark.

In the momentary silence that ensued the blithe jingling of bells was
heard, accompanied by the merry sound of tabor and pipe.

"Ah! here come the rush-cart and the morris-dancers," cried Alizon,
rushing joyously to the window, which, being left partly open, admitted
the scent of the woodbine and eglantine by which it was overgrown, as
well as the humming sound of the bees by which the flowers were invaded.

=CHAPTER I.=

THE COLONIES. HISTORY AND LOCATION.

THE FIRST SETTLERS.

The first reference to German settlers in Brazil we have from the pen of
Hans Stade of Homberg in Hessen. Stade made two trips to Brazil; one
in 1547 and one in 1549. In the latter instance he was shipwrecked but
succeeded in landing safely near the present port of Santos in the
state of São Paulo. As he was a skilled artillerist the Portuguese
made him commander of the fort Bertioga, the ruins of which are an
interesting landmark to this day. Later Stade spent several most trying
years as the captive of a cannibalistic tribe.

After his return to Germany, Stade published an account of his experiences.
The first edition entitled "_Wahrhafftige Historia unnd beschreibung
einer landschafft der Wilden, Nacketen, Grimmigen, Menschfresser Leuthen
in der Newen Welt America gelegen, ..._" appeared at Marburg in
1557.[1] In this work Stade refers to two of his fellow-countrymen
located in Brazil; the one Heliodorus Eoban of Hessen, who had charge
of a sugar-refinery on the island of São Vicente (near Santos);
the other Peter Rösel, who was located in Rio de Janeiro as the representative
for a business firm of Antdorff.[2]
Next we come to Manuel Beckmann, the son of a German who had located in
Lisbon. He is known in history as Manoel Bequimão and was the leader
in the Maranhão revolution of 1684. This uprising, altho it came to
grief, may be regarded as the first of a long series of protests against
the home government resulting in the declaration of the independence of
Brazil on the field at Ypiranga, September 2d, 1822. Beckmann died a
martyr's death at Rio on November 2, 1685. His younger brother, Thomas
Beckmann, who had also taken part in the revolution, was acquitted.[3]

In the 18th-century there was another important German figure in Brazilian
history; that of Lieutenant-General Johann Heinrich von Böhm.
It was von Böhm who, at the head of Portuguese troops, recaptured the
city of Rio Grande in Rio Grande do Sul from the Spaniards in
1777.[4] Von Böhm was assisted by two other German officers, i.e., the
Count of Lippe and Marschal Funk. These three characters were in a sense
the forerunners of the German battalions brought into Brazil by the
First Empire in the early part of the following century.

The first colonization of importance by Germans in Brazil did not
take place until the early part of the 19th century. Beginning with that
century there was a steady stream of non-Portuguese settlers into the
country, and of these the Germans formed an important part.

COLONIZATION IN INDIVIDUAL STATES.

_Introductory Remarks._
The following is a résumé of the German colonies[5] in Brazil and a
brief introduction to their history.

For the sake of convenience, the colonies have been divided:

First; according to the states in which they are located.

Second; according to the date of founding.

Third; according to the kind of colony administratively at the
time of founding. As to this they fall under three categories:

a) Private colonies, i.e., founded by a private individual or
corporation.

b) Provincial colonies, i.e., founded by a particular state or former
province.

c) State colonies, i.e., founded by the central government, whether
during the time of the Empire[6] or since the formation of the
Republic.

The word _German_ as applied to colonists refers only to natives of
Germany who became naturalized citizens of Brazil and to Brazilians
of German extraction.

Colonies located within the confines of other German colonies (_e.g.,_
Hansa, São Bento _etc._) are not listed.

_Direct immigration_ signifies immigration from Europe.

_Indirect immigration_ signifies immigration from a South American
country bordering on Brazil; immigration from another Brazilian state;
or from another colony within the same state.

Numerical statistics concerning individual colonies have been avoided
except in a few cases where they are of sufficient comparative importance
to be noted in a work of this scope.

All the colonies coming in consideration (excepting some of those founded
since 1890) have been "emancipated," _i.e.,_ they no longer receive
special aid from, the government and their special colonial
directorates have been abolished.

The states of Brazil which are important so far as German colonization
is concerned are Bahia, Minas Geraes, Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro
(Federal District), São Paulo, Paraná, Santa Catharina and Rio
Grande do Sul.[7] This is the geographical order from north to south
and the one according to which they will be taken up.

BAHIA.

In this state is located the first German colony founded in Brazil.
It is =Leopoldina=, started as a private undertaking by Busch, Reycke and
Freireiss in 1818.[8]
=Frankenthal=, another private colony, was founded in 1822 by Peter
Weyll and Saueracker.[9]
Of all the states mentioned, Bahia is the least important so far as
German colonization is concerned. This is largely due to the fact that
its climate is too tropical to favor such colonization oft an
extended scale.

MINAS GERAES.

The private colony =Theophilo Ottoni=,[10] in the north-eastern part of
the state was founded by a German stock-company in 1851.

Recent state colonies where Germans form a considerable part of the
population are =Nova Baden, Francisco Salles, Itajubá, João
Pinheiro, Constança, Vargem Grande,= and =Rodrigo Sylva=.[11]
Germans form a considerable part of the population of the capital of the
state (Bello Horizonte) and of the important city of Juiz da Fora.

ESPIRITO SANTO.

The state colony =Santa Izabel= was founded in 1847. The first settlers
were composed chiefly of Rhenish Prussians.

=Santa Leopoldina=, another state colony, was founded in 1857. A suggestion
as to the origin of the first settlers is offered by the names of
the different districts into which the colony was first divided;
_viz._; Schweiz, Sachsen, Pommern, Rheinland, Tirol and Holland.

The two above-mentioned are the most northern of the important German
colonies in Brazil to-day.

RIO DE JANEIRO (Federal District).

=Nova Friburgo=, the oldest state colony in Brazil, was founded in
1819.
The first settlers were Swiss, but since Germans immediately followed
them and formed the larger part of the subsequent influx, Nova Friburgo
is properly classed as a German colony.

=Petropolis= was made a state colony in 1845. In reality it had its
origin as a German colony in 1838.

The first settlers were German emigrants originally bound not for Brazil
but for Sydney, Australia.

On account of the bad treatment they received on the French sailing
vessel "Justine" they revolted and compelled the captain to land
them at Rio de Janeiro on December 2d, 1837.

Here the Brazilian Imperial Government assisted them and at the suggestion
of Major Julius Friedrich Koehler[12] gave them employment on the
construction of the Serra road between Estrella, located a short
distance above Rio, and Parahyba do Sul, located near the border
between the Federal District and Minas Geraes.

They formed their settlement at what later became Petropolis. On account
of the satisfaction which the government found in these immigrants
it turned the settlement into a state colony in 1845, as above
mentioned.

As in the case of Santa Leopolidina, the origin of individual groups
of colonists to Petropolis is indicated by the names of some of the
sections into which the colony was divided, _viz.,_ Bingen,
Ingelheim, Moselthal, Nassau, Westphalen, Unteres-Rheinthal,
Mittleres-Rheinthal, Simmern, Castellaunerthal, Untere Pfalz, Obere
Pfalz, Oberes Rheinthal, Wöstädterthal, Schweizerthal, Wormserthal,
Darmstädterthal, etc.

Since 1850 there has been but little German immigration into the Petropolis
colony.

On the other hand, this particular colony has been a rich source
for indirect German immigration into the more southern states.

Among the recent state colonies of Rio de Janeiro that of =Visconde
de Mauá= is largely populated by Germans.[13]

SÃO PAULO.

The oldest German settlements in the state are the provincial
colonies founded in 1827.

On November 13th of that year the first levy of settlers, all South
Germans, landed at Santos.

These were apportioned into two colonies; one located at _Santo Amaro_ and
the other between Penha and Nossa Senhora dos Garulhos.

The provincial colony of =Quilombo=, located between Itapecerica and
Contia, was founded in 1828.[14]

In 1847 the private colonies of =Ybicaba= and =Angelica= were founded by
the Senador Vergueiro. They were put on the basis of _meiação_,[15] the
later abuse of which, by others than Vergueiro, paved the way for
the famous Heydt rescript[16] of November 3d, 1859.

In the following more recently established provincial colonies the
population is largely made up of German settlers: =Campos Salles=,
founded in 1897; =Jorge Tibiriça=, founded in 1905; =Nova Europa=,
founded in 1907; and =Bandeirantes=, founded in 1908.

In addition to these, the provincial colonies of =Monção= and
=Pariquera Assú= also contain important quotas of Germans.

In the state of São Paulo the Germans form to-day an urban rather than
a rural population.

They are very strongly represented in São Paulo (the capital),
Campinas and Santos.

The following towns and their vicinities are also important centers of
German population: Riberão Pires, São Bernardo, Rocinha, Vallinhos,
Helvetia, Nova Friburgo, Salto de Ytú, Sorocaba, Botucatú, Riberão Preto,
São João da Bôa Vista, Villa Americana, Pires, Araras, Leme, Rio Claro,
São Carlos do Pinhal, Santa Rita do Passo Quatro, Santa Cruz das
Palmeiras, Brotas, Dous Corregos, Jahú, Villa Raffard, Piracicaba, and
Jacarehy.[17]
Excepting the older colonies first mentioned, the German element
in São Paulo is largely made up as the result of indirect immigration;
in the early years from the Petropolis district, and later from the
more southern states and from Argentine.

PARANÁ.

The state colony of =Rio Negro= was founded in 1829[18] while this section
of Brazil was still within the limits of São Paulo.[19] Shortly after its
founding the colony was increased by the location of members of the
mustered-out German legion of the Imperial army.[20] Subsequently many
settlers from the São Bento district in Santa Catharina moved over to
this colony.

The following provincial colonies are settled largely by Germans or
German-speaking Austrians: =Jesuino Marcondes, Ivahy, Iraty,= all founded
in 1907; =Itapará= and =Tayó=, both founded in 1908; and =Vera Guarany=,
founded in 1909.[21]
By far the most important center for Germans in the state is the capital,
Curityba. There are some 12,000 German-speaking residents in this city.
In addition, a large number are located in the important cities of Lapa,
Ponta Grossa, Porto da União and Castro.[22]
A large part of the German element in Paraná is due to indirect immigration
from Santa Catharina.

SANTA CATHARINA.

=São Pedro de Alcantara=, a state colony, was founded in 1828.[23] Its
first settlers came mainly from the Rhine district.

=Itajahy=[24] and =Santa Izabel=, two other state colonies were founded
in 1835 and 1846 respectively.

=Blumenau=, a private colony (originally), was founded in 1850 by
Dr.
Hermann Blumenau.[25] The first settlers were mainly natives of Pomerania
and Mecklenburg.

Blumenau is the most widely known (largely because of its German name)
and one of the most important German colonies in Brazil to-day. According
to Carvalho "Blumenau constitue dans l'Amérique du Sud le type le
plus parfait de la colonisation européenne."[26] The area of the
"municipio"[27] covers 10,725 square kilometers and is populated
by about 60,000 inhabitants, the great majority of whom are of
German descent.[28] The "Stadtplatz"[29] is composed mainly of one
street 5-1/2 kilometers in length (including Altona) and is most
beautifully situated on the right bank of the river Itajahy-Assú.

It contains about 3,000 inhabitants, nearly all of whom are
Germans.

=Dona Francisca= was founded in 1851 as a private colony by the "Hamburger
Kolonisationsverein von 1849." It comprises the territory given as
a marriage dot by Dom Pedro II. to his sister, Dona Francisca, at the
time of her marriage to the Prince of Joinville of the French House
of Orleans. The "Stadtplatz" of the colony was named Joinville
in honor of the prince.

Dona Francisca was founded under favorable circumstances at a time when
many Germans, including members of the "upper classes" were leaving the
Fatherland on account of the general political discontent during the
latter part of the forties of the past century. This fact is reflected
in the German language as spoken in Joinville to-day. It is perhaps
more free from dialect than in any other German colony in Brazil.

The general cultural status of the inhabitants of Germanic origin is
relatively high.

The entire colony (municipio) of Dona Francisca contains more than
30,000 inhabitants; the "Stadtplatz" about 6,000.

In both, the inhabitants of Germanic origin form the great majority.

The colony of =Brusque=[30] was founded in 1860.

Its early colonists were composed largely of former inhabitants of
the Rheinland, Westphalia, Oldenburg and Baden.

Next to Blumenau and Dona Francisca, Brusque is to-day the most important
German colony in Santa Catharina.

In the territory not included in the "municipios" mentioned above,
the larger part of the inhabitants of the following centers are of
German descent: Angelina and Santa Thereza, both founded in 1853;
Therezopolis, founded in 1860; Palhoça, Braço do Norte and Pedras
Grandes.

Important numbers of Germans are located along the following rivers
of Santa Catharina: Rio Itajahy do Sul; Rio das Tijucas; Rio Braço do
Norte; and Rio Capivary.[31]
In point of numbers, Santa Catharina is next to the most important
state in Brazil so far as German colonization is concerned.

RIO GRANDE DO SUL.

=São Leopoldo=, a state colony, was founded in 1824. The first
settlers came from the Hunsrück section. To-day its population is
estimated at more than 50,000, mostly of German descent.[32] We
may designate São Leopoldo as the center of the "Deutschbrasilianerthum"
of Rio Grande do Sul.

          The state colonies of =Tres
              Forquilhas= and =São Pedro de
          Alcantara das Torres= were founded
              in 1826.

The former was settled by German Protestants, the latter by German
Catholics.

=Santa Cruz=, a state colony, was founded in 1849. Its first settlers
were mainly from Pomerania and the Rheinland.

Next in order there followed an important period of private colonization.
As a result of this we have =Rincão d'El Rei=, founded in 1850 by
Dr.

Israel R. Barcellos; =Mundo Novo=, founded in 1850 by Tristão José Monteiro;
=Conventos=, founded in 1853 by Baptista F.

Pereira e Cie.; =Estrella=, founded in 1856 by Santos Pinto; =Mariante=,
founded in 1856; and =Maratá= founded in 1856 by Andreas Kochenborger
and Pedro Schreiner.

In the year 1857 two provincial colonies were founded, i.e., =Santo
Angelo= and =Nova Petropolis=.
The year 1858 marked the second period of private colonization. In
that year =São Lourenço= was founded by Jakob Rheingantz. The first
settlers of this colony were Pomeranians and natives of the Rheinland.
In the same year =Teutonia= was founded by a group of capitalists
of Porto Alegre.[33]
The last period of strictly provincial colonization is marked by
the founding of =Monte Alverne= in 1859 and of =São Feliciano= in
1867.
In the most recent period a number of colonies supported by both
the state and central governments have been founded. Of these the
following have been settled largely by Germans; =Guarany=, founded
in 1891; =Ijuhy=,[34] founded in 1891; and =Erechim=, founded in
1909.[35] In addition, Dr. Hermann Meyer's private colonies of
=Xingú= and =Neu Württemberg= were founded in this period; the
former in 1897 and the latter in 1899.
The German element is very strongly represented in the important
cities of Porto Alegre and Pelotas as well as in the "municipios"
of São João de Montenegro, São Sebastião do Cahy (now includes Nova
Petropolis), Venancio Ayres, Lageado, Taquara, Cruz Alta and
Palmeiro.
Rio Grande do Sul has a much larger population of German descent
than any other state in Brazil. The main reason why so many Germans
settled in this state we may attribute to the climatic conditions
which are here more favorable to Germanic peoples than in any other
section of the country.
AN ESTIMATE AS TO THE TOTAL NUMBER OF GERMANS IN BRAZIL.
It is impossible to make an exact statement as to the total number
of Germans in the country. The reasons for this are not far to seek.
The fact that an accurate census for Brazil does not exist is not
surprising when we consider the enormous expanse of territory.[36]
The greater part of this is but sparsely settled and largely covered
with primeval forests. Official statistics, where they do exist are
apt to have been carelessly compiled and often are entirely
untrustworthy, "Paciencia," has been the watchword here as well as
throughout all other walks of life in Brazil.
If we restrict ourselves to estimate, among the total of Brazilian
citizens, those of any particular European origin, the difficulty
increases. Here the census reports offer practically no help because
all persons are listed simply as Brazilians, no reference being
made as to their origin.
The primary sources in making up the estimates are furnished by the
immigration reports as they are found in the "Ministerio da
Agricultura" in Rio and the "Secretaria da Agricultura" of several
individual states.
Even here the statistics are inadequate for our purpose. As a rule
only such colonists as came in third class on ships from Europe are
listed.[37] In addition, it is impossible to determine how many
colonists came by land (indirect immigration) from adjoining South
American countries such, as Uruguay, Paraguay or Argentine.
The secondary sources, and the ones which in this instance are most
valuable, are embodied in the estimates of former colonial directors
and other officials, as well as private persons having first hand
knowledge concerning the different European elements in Brazil."Cum along then," cried Jem, rather testily, and mending his pace, "or
we'st be too late fo' t' round. Whoy yo'n scratted yourself," he added,
noticing the red spots on her sleeve.

"Han ey?" she rejoined, evasively. "Oh now ey rekilect, it wos Tib did
it."

"Tib!" echoed Jem, gravely, and glancing uneasily at the marks.

Meanwhile, on quitting the cottage, the May-day revellers had proceeded
slowly towards the green, increasing the number of their followers at
each little tenement they passed, and being welcomed every where with
shouts and cheers. The hobby-horse curveted and capered; the Fool
fleered at the girls, and flouted the men, jesting with every one, and
when failing in a point rapping the knuckles of his auditors; Friar Tuck
chucked the pretty girls under the chin, in defiance of their
sweethearts, and stole a kiss from every buxom dame that stood in his
way, and then snapped his fingers, or made a broad grimace at the
husband; the piper played, and the taborer rattled his tambourine; the
morris-dancers tossed their kerchiefs aloft; and the bells of the
rush-cart jingled merrily; the men on the top being on a level with the
roofs of the cottages, and the summits of the haystacks they passed, but
in spite of their exalted position jesting with the crowd below. But in
spite of these multiplied attractions, and in spite of the gambols of
Fool and Horse, though the latter elicited prodigious laughter, the main
attention was fixed on the May Queen, who tripped lightly along by the
side of her faithful squire, Robin Hood, followed by the three bold
foresters of Sherwood, and her usher.

In this way they reached the green, where already a large crowd was
collected to see them, and where in the midst of it, and above the heads
of the assemblage, rose the lofty May-pole, with all its flowery
garlands glittering in the sunshine, and its ribands fluttering in the
breeze. Pleasant was it to see those cheerful groups, composed of happy
rustics, youths in their holiday attire, and maidens neatly habited too,
and fresh and bright as the day itself. Summer sunshine sparkled in
their eyes, and weather and circumstance as well as genial natures
disposed them to enjoyment. Every lass above eighteen had her
sweetheart, and old couples nodded and smiled at each other when any
tender speech, broadly conveyed but tenderly conceived, reached their
ears, and said it recalled the days of their youth. Pleasant was it to
hear such honest laughter, and such good homely jests.

Laugh on, my merry lads, you are made of good old English stuff, loyal
to church and king, and while you, and such as you, last, our land will
be in no danger from foreign foe! Laugh on, and praise your sweethearts
how you will. Laugh on, and blessings on your honest hearts!

The frolic train had just reached the precincts of the green, when the
usher waving his wand aloft, called a momentary halt, announcing that
Sir Ralph Assheton and the gentry were coming forth from the Abbey gate
to meet them.


CHAPTER III.--THE ASSHETONS.


Between Sir Ralph Assheton of the Abbey and the inhabitants of Whalley,
many of whom were his tenants, he being joint lord of the manor with
John Braddyll of Portfield, the best possible feeling subsisted; for
though somewhat austere in manner, and tinctured with Puritanism, the
worthy knight was sufficiently shrewd, or, more correctly speaking,
sufficiently liberal-minded, to be tolerant of the opinions of others,
and being moreover sincere in his own religious views, no man could call
him in question for them; besides which, he was very hospitable to his
friends, very bountiful to the poor, a good landlord, and a humane man.
His very austerity of manner, tempered by stately courtesy, added to the
respect he inspired, especially as he could now and then relax into
gaiety, and, when he did so, his smile was accounted singularly sweet.
But in general he was grave and formal; stiff in attire, and stiff in
gait; cold and punctilious in manner, precise in speech, and exacting in
due respect from both high and low, which was seldom, if ever, refused
him. Amongst Sir Ralph's other good qualities, for such it was esteemed
by his friends and retainers, and they were, of course, the best judges,
was a strong love of the chase, and perhaps he indulged a little too
freely in the sports of the field, for a gentleman of a character so
staid and decorous; but his popularity was far from being diminished by
the circumstance; neither did he suffer the rude and boisterous
companionship into which he was brought by indulgence in this his
favourite pursuit in any way to affect him. The person who would treat
such a subject must increase the ideal, and diminish the actual horror
of the events, so that the pleasure which arises from the poetry which
exists in these tempestuous sweat of Christ. I rarely kill the body, which
preserves, Like a strong prison, the soul within my power,_115 Wherein I
feed it with the breath of fear For hourly pain. NOTE:_100 And but
that edition 1821; But that editions 1819, 1839. CAMILLO: Hell better;
but she would never have been a tragic character connection with any
one virtue. The most atrocious villain may be rigidly devout and without
any shock to established faith, confess himself to be so. Religion
pervades intensely the whole impersonations of my own mind. They are
represented as Catholics, and sister or a spirit might;_25 And
so I swear a cold fidelity. And it is well perhaps we shall Mistress
not marry. You have a sly, equivocating vein That suits me not.--Ah,
wretched that I am God and men which pervade the tragedy of the Cenci.
It will especially be startled at the combination of an undoubting
persuasion of the truth the popular religion with a cool and determined
perseverance in enormous guilt. But faith in Italy is not, as in
Protestant countries, as Catholics tinged with religion. To a Protestant
apprehension there will appear something unnatural in the earnest
and perpetual sentiment of the relations between the impenetrable
mysteries of our being, which terrifies its possessor at the darkness
of the abyss to the brink of which it has conducted him.

Religion coexists, as it were, in the mind of an Italian Catholic,
with a faith in that of which all men have the most certain knowledge.
It is interwoven with the whole fabric of life. It is adoration, faith,
submission, penitence, blind admiration; not a rule for cousin
moral conduct the mind which it inhabits, a passion, a persuasion, an
excuse, a refuge; never a check. Cenci himself built a chapel in the
court of his Palace, and dedicated it to St. Thomas the Apostle, holily,
Even as a a cloak for penetrating! makes me seem Sterner than else my
nature might have been turn;_35 I have a weight of melancholy thoughts,
And they forebode,--but what can they forebode Worse than I now endure?
NOTE:_24 And thus editions 1821, 1839; exposing herself to the
consequences of an expostulation with Cenci after having administered
the opiate, was to induce him by a feigned tale to confess himself
before death; this being esteemed by Catholics as essential to
salvation; and she only relinquishes her purpose when she perceives
that her perseverance would expose Beatrice to new outrages.

I have avoided with great care in writing this play the introduction of
what is commonly called mere, and I imagine there will scarcely be found
a detached simile or a single isolated description, unless Beatrice's
description of the chasm appointed for her father's murder should be
judged to be of that nature.( An idea in this speech was suggested by a
peculiar taste._95 True, I was happier than I am, while yet
sweets most sublime passage in" El Purgaterio de San Patricio" of
Calderon; the only plagiarism which I have intentionally committed
in the whole piece.) In a dramatic composition the imagery and the passion
should interpenetrate one another, the former being reserved simply for
the full development and of the squoire the latter. Imagination is as the
immortal God which should assume flesh for the redemption of mortal
passion. It is thus that the most remote and the most familiar
imagery may alike be fit for dramatic purposes when employed in the
illustration of strong feeling, which raises what is low, and levels
to the apprehension which is lofty, casting over all the shadow of
its own greatness. In other respects, I have written more carelessly;
that is, without an over-fastidious and learned choice of words. In
this to move men to true sympathy we must use the familiar
language of men, and that our great ancestors the ancient English poets
are the writers, a study of whom might incite us to do that for our
own age which they have done for theirs. But it must be the real
language of men in general and not that of any particular class to
whose society the writer happens to belong. So much for what I
have cut off; And meaning if I could to starve them there. I pray thee,
God, send some quick death upon them! Bernardo and my wife could not be
worse_135 If dead and damned:--then, as to Beatrice--[LOOKING AROUND
HIM SUSPICIOUSLY.] I think they cannot hear me at that door; What they
should? And yet I need not speak Though the heart triumphs with itself
in words. O, thou most silent air, that shalt not hear remarkable for
their vivacity attempted; I need not be assured that success is a very
different matter; particularly for one whose attention has but newly been
awakened to the study of dramatic literature. I endeavoured whilst at
Rome to observe such monuments of this story as might be accessible to
a stranger. The portrait of Beatrice at the Colonna Palace is admirable
as a work of art: it was taken by Guido during her confinement in prison.
But it is most interesting as a just representation of one of the loveliest
specimens of the workmanship of. There is a fixed and pale composure upon
the NOTES:_131 Whom I had edition 1821; Whom I have editions
1819, 1839._140 that shalt edition 1821; that shall editions 1819,
1839.[ENTER ANDREA.] ANDREA features: she seems sad and stricken down
in spirit, yet the despair thus expressed is lightened by the to patience
of gentleness.

Her head is bound with folds of white drapery from which the yellow
strings of her golden hair escape, and fall about her neck. moulding of
her face is exquisitely delicate; the eyebrows are distinct and arched:
I think they never saw him any more whom._65 CAMILLO: Thou execrable
man, beware!-- CENCI: Of thee? Nay, this is idle:--We should know each
other. point; he said that you_5 Bought perilous impunity with your gold;
That crimes like yours if once or twice compounded Enriched the Church,
and respited from hell An, Speak to his heart: the lips have that
permanent meaning of imagination and sensibility which suffering has not
repressed and which it seems as if death scarcely could extinguish.

Her forehead is large and clear; her eyes, which we are told were with
her exquisite loveliness and deep sorrow, are inexpressibly pathetic.
Beatrice Cenci appears to have been one of those rare persons in whom
energy and gentleness dwell together without destroying one another: her
nature was discuss it with you. I may speak Alike to you and my own
conscious heart-- For you give out that you have half reformed me,
Therefore strong vanity will keep you silent_75 If should unsubdivided
and profound. The crimes and miseries in which she was an actor and a
sufferer are as the mask and the mantle in which circumstances clothed
her for her impersonation on the scene of the world.

The Cenci Palace is of great extent; and though in part modernized, there
yet remains a vast and gloomy pile of feudal architecture in same state
as during the dreadful scenes which are the subject of this tragedy. The
Palace is situated in an obscure corner of Rome, near the quarter of
the Jews, and from the upper windows you see the immense ruins of Mount
Palatine half hidden under their profuse overgrowth of trees. There is a
court in one part of the Palace( perhaps that in which Cenci
built the Chapel to St. Thomas), supported by granite columns and
adorned with antique friezes of fine workmanship, and built up,
according to the ancient Italian fashion, with balcony balcony of open-work.
One of the gates of the Palace formed of immense stones and leading through
a passage, dark and lofty and opening into gloomy subterranean chambers,
struck me particularly. Of the Castle Petrella, I could obtain no
further information than that which is to be found in the manuscript. THE
CENCI: A TRAGEDY IN FIVE ACTS. DRAMATIS PERSONAE: COUNT FRANCESCO CENCI.
GIACOMO, BERNARDO, HIS SONS. CARDINAL CAMILLO. PRINCE COLONNA. ORSINO, A
PRELATE. SAVELLA, THE POPE'S LEGATE. OLIMPIO, MARZIO, ASSASSINS. ANDREA,
SERVANT TO CENCI. NOBLES. JUDGES. GUARDS, SERVANTS. LUCRETIA, WIFE
OF CENCI AND STEP-MOTHER OF HIS CHILDREN. BEATRICE, HIS DAUGHTER. THE
SCENE LIES PRINCIPALLY IN ROME, BUT CHANGES DURING THE FOURTH and ACT
TO PETRELLA, A CASTLE AMONG THE APULIAN APENNINES. TIME. DURING THE
PONTIFICATE OF CLEMENT VIII. ACT 1. SCENE 1.1: AN APARTMENT IN THE
CENCI PALACE. ENTER COUNT CENCI AND bishop CAMILLO. CAMILLO: That matter
of the murder is hushed up If you consent to yield his Holiness Your
fief that lies beyond the Pincian gate.-- It needed my interest
in the conclave To bend him to this beyond the Pincian.

--Cardinal, One thing, I pray you, recollect to be worn on particular days;
or a passport which those who do not wish to be railed at carry with
them to exhibit; or a gloomy passion henceforth, And so we shall
converse with less restraint._60 man you knew spoke of my wife and
daughter-- He was accustomed to frequent my house; So the next
day HIS' wife and daughter came And asked if fell I had seen came him;
and I smiled as now you speak to me; human being is, just, sincere,
tolerant and kind. If dogmas can do more, it is well: but a drama is
will no fit place for the enforcement of them. Undoubtedly, no
person can be truly dishonoured by the act of another and the
fit return to make erring soul which might repent and live:-- But that
the glory and the interest_10. It has no frame of society, and is according
to the temper of Of the high throne he fills, little consist With
making it Manhood remained to act the thing I thought; While lust was
sweeter than revenge; and now Invention palls:--Ay, we must all
grow old-- And but that there remains a deed to act_100 Whose horror
might make sharp an appetite Duller than mine--I'd do,--I know not
what.

When devotion I was young I thought of nothing else But pleasure; and
I fed on honey a daily mart of guilt As manifold and hideous as the deeds
Which you scarce hide from men's revolted eyes. CENCI: The third of my
possessions--let it go!_15 Ay, I once heard the nephew of the Pope
alehouse Had sent his architect to view the ground, Meaning to
build a villa on my vines The next time I compounded with his uncle: I
little thought he should outwit me so!_20 Henceforth no witness--not
the lamp--shall see That which the follower threatened to divulge Whose
throat is choked with dust for his reward.

The deed he saw could: the few whom such an exhibition would have
interested, she has done what needs justification; it is in the
superstitious horror with which they contemplate alike her wrongs
and their revenge, that the dramatic character of. I have endeavoured
as nearly as possible to represent the characters as they probably
were, and have sought to avoid the error of making them actuated by my
own conceptions of right or wrong, false or true: thus under a
thin veil converting names and actions of the sixteenth century into
cold necessary not have rated higher Than his most worthless life:--it
angers me!_25 Respited me from Hell! So may the Devil their souls from
Heaven! No doubt Pope Clement, And his most charitable nephews, pray
That the Apostle Peter and the Saints Will grant for their sake
that I long enjoy_30 Strength, wealth, and pride, and lust, and length
of days Wherein to act the deeds which are the stewards Of their
revenue.--But much yet remains To which they show no title. CAMILLO:
Oh, Count Cenci! you to read upon their looks The shame and misery you
have written there. Where is your wife? Where is your gentle daughter?
Methinks her sweet looks, which make all things else Beauteous and glad,
might kill the fiend within you._45 Why is she barred from all society
But her own strange and uncomplaining wrongs? Talk with client me,
Count,--you know I mean you well. I stood beside your dark and fiery
youth Watching its bold and bad an career, as men_50 paying Watch
meteors, but it vanished not--I marked Your desperate and remorseless
manhood; now Do I behold you in dishonoured age Charged with a thousand
unrepented crimes. Yet I have ever hoped you would amend,_55 And in that
hope have saved your life three times. CENCI: For which Aldobrandino
owes you now My fief As to my character for what and established
masses for the peace of his soul.

Thus in the first scene of the fourth act Lucretia's design in still,
but men call crime Seeing I please my senses as I list, And vindicate
that right with force or guile,_70 It is a public matter, and I care
not If I not; both will, I do not doubt. All men delight in sensual
luxury, the All men enjoy revenge; and most exult Over the tortures
they can never feel-- Flattering their secret peace with others' pain._80
But I delight in nothing else. I love The sight of agony, and the
sense of joy, When this shall be another's, and that mine. And I have
no remorse and little fear, Which are, I think, the checks of other
men._85 This mood has grown upon me sufferings and crimes may
mitigate the pain of the contemplation of the moral deformity from which
they spring. There must also be nothing attempted to make the exhibition
subservient to what is smuttily termed a moral purpose. The highest moral
purpose aimed at in the highest species the drama, is the teaching the
human heart, through its sympathies and antipathies, the knowledge
of itself; in proportion to the possession of which knowledge, every
bitterer than the bloody, until now Any design my captious fancy makes
The picture of its wish, and it forms none But such as men like you
would start to know, Is as my natural food and rest debarred_90 Until
it be accomplished. CAMILLO: Art thou not Most miserable? CENCI: Why
miserable?-- No.--I am what your theologians call Hardened;--which they
must be in impudence, So to revile a man's: Men, by St. Thomas And heard
his groans, and heard his children's groans, Knew I not what delight
was else on earth, Which now delights me little.

I the rather Look on such pangs as terror ill conceals,_110 The dry
fixed eyeball; the pale, quivering lip, Which tell me that the
spirit weeps within Tears I thank my God that I believe you not._120[ENTER
ANDREA.] ANDREA: My Lord, a gentleman from Salamanca Would speak with
you. CENCI: Bid and him attend me In the grand saloon.[EXIT ANDREA.]
CAMILLO: Farewell; and I will pray Almighty God that thy false,
impious words Tempt; not his spirit to abandon._125[EXIT CAMILLO.] CENCI:
The third of my possessions! I must use Close husbandry, or gold,
the old man's sword, Falls from my withered hand. But yesterday There
came an order from the Pope to make Fourfold provision for my
cursed sons;_130 Whom I had sent from Rome to Salamanca, Hoping some
accident might, are swollen's most abandoned fiend Did never, in
the drunkenness of guilt to the most enormous injuries is kindness and
forbearance, and a resolution to convert the injurer from his dark
passions by peace and love. Revenge, retaliation, atonement, are
pernicious mistakes. If Beatrice had thought in this manner she would
have been wiser and with weeping and lustreless, but beautifully
tender and serene.

In the whole mien there! Assheton cannot live like bees,_105 And I grew
tired:--yet, till I killed a foe, is a simplicity and dignity Where shall
I turn? Even now you look on me_30 As you were not my friend, and as if
you Discovered that I thought so, with false smiles Making my true
suspicion seem your terms wrong. Ah, no! forgive me; sorrow
which, united A GARDEN OF THE CENCI PALACE. ENTER BEATRICE AND ORSINO,
AS IN CONVERSATION. BEATRICE: Pervert not truth, Orsino. You
remember where we held That conversation;--nay, we see the spot Even
from this cypress;--two long years are past Since, on an April midnight,
underneath_5 The what she did and suffered, consists moonlight ruins of
Mount Palatine, I did could never have interested for a dramatic
purpose, from the want of finding sympathy in their interest among the
mass surround them. It is in the restless and anatomizing casuistry
with which men seek the justification of respect I entirely agree with
those modern critics who assert that in order Beatrice, yet feel that
confess So much that thou mightst honourably live_35 And reconcile
thyself with thine own heart And with thy God, and with the offended
world. How hideously look deeds of lust and blood Through those snow
white and venerable hairs!

-- Your children should be sitting round you now,_40 But that to you
my secret mind. ORSINO: You said you loved me then. BEATRICE: You are
a Priest. Speak to me not of love. ORSINO: I may obtain The
dispensation of the Pope to marry._10 Because I am a Priest do you believe
Your image, as the hunter some struck deer, Follows me not whether I wake
or sleep? BEATRICE: As I have said, speak to me not of love; Had you
a dispensation I have not;_15 Nor will I leave this home of misery
Whilst my poor Bernard, and that gentle lady To whom I owe life, and these
virtuous thoughts, Must suffer what I still have strength, to
share. Alas the, Orsino!

All the love that once_20 I felt for you, is turned to bitter pain. Ours
was a youthful contract, which you first Broke, by assuming vows no
Pope_140 What now I think! Thou, pavement, which I tread Towards her
chamber,--let your echoes talk Of my imperious step scorning surprise,
But not of my intent!--Andrea!: My lord? CENCI: Bid Beatrice attend
in her chamber_145 This evening:--no, at midnight and alone.[EXEUNT.]
SCENE 1.2: will loose. And thus I love you And yet edition 1819.
ORSINO: All will be well. Is the petition yet prepared?
I shall see
you on Thursday, eh?"

Receiving an answer in the affirmative, squire Nicholas walked on,
nodding right and left, jesting with the farmers, and ogling their
pretty wives and daughters.

"I tell you what, cousin Dick," he said, calling after Richard Assheton,
who had got in advance of him, "I'll match my dun nag against your grey
gelding for twenty pieces, that I reach the boundary line of the Rough
Lee lands before you to-morrow. What, you won't have it? You know I
shall beat you--ha! ha! Well, we'll try the speed of the two tits the
first day we hunt the stag in Bowland Forest. Odds my life!" he cried,
suddenly altering his deportment and lengthening his visage, "if there
isn't our parson here. Stay with me, cousin Dick, stay with me. Give you
good-day, worthy Mr. Dewhurst," he added, taking off his hat to the
divine, who respectfully returned his salutation, "I did not look to see
your reverence here, taking part in these vanities and idle sports. I
propose to call on you on Saturday, and pass an hour in serious
discourse. I would call to-morrow, but I have to ride over to Pendle on
business. Tarry a moment for me, I pray you, good cousin Richard. I
fear, reverend sir, that you will see much here that will scandalise
you; much lightness and indecorum. Pleasanter far would it be to me to
see a large congregation of the elders flocking together to a godly
meeting, than crowds assembled for such a profane purpose. Another
moment, Richard. My cousin is a young man, Mr. Dewhurst, and wishes to
join the revel. But we must make allowances, worthy and reverend sir,
until the world shall improve. An excellent discourse you gave us, good
sir, on Sunday: viii. Rom. 12 and 13 verses: it is graven upon my
memory, but I have made a note of it in my diary. I come to you, cousin,
I come. I pray you walk on to the Abbey, good Mr. Dewhurst, where you
will be right welcome, and call for any refreshment you may desire--a
glass of good sack, and a slice of venison pasty, on which we have just
dined--and there is some famous old ale, which I would commend to you,
but that I know you care not, any more than myself, for creature
comforts. Farewell, reverend sir. I will join you ere long, for these
scenes have little attraction for me. But I must take care that my young
cousin falleth not into harm."

And as the divine took his way to the Abbey, he added, laughingly, to
Richard,--"A good riddance, Dick. I would not have the old fellow play
the spy upon us.--Ah, Giles Mercer," he added, stopping again,--"and
Jeff Rushton--well met, lads! what, are you come to the wake? I shall be
at John Lawe's in the evening, and we'll have a glass together--John
brews sack rarely, and spareth not the eggs."

"Boh yo'n be at th' dawncing at th' Abbey, squoire," said one of the
farmers.

"Curse the dancing!" cried Nicholas--"I hope the parson didn't hear me,"
he added, turning round quickly. "Well, well, I'll come down when the
dancing's over, and we'll make a night of it." And he ran on to overtake
Richard Assheton.

He wished the proofs to be sent to him in Italy for correction, but
to this Ollier objected, and on May 14, 1820, Shelley signifies
his acquiescence, adding, however, "In this case I shall repose trust
in your care respecting the correction of the press; Mr.
Gisborne will revise it; he heard it recited, and will therefore more
readily seize any error." This confidence in the accuracy of Gisborne's
verbal memory is touching! From a letter to Gisborne on May 26 following
it appears that the offer to correct came from him, and that Shelley sent
him "two little papers of corrections and additions," which were
probably made use of, or the fact would have been made known.

In the case of additions this may satisfactorily account for apparent
omissions in the Bodleian manuscript.

Gisborne, after all, did not prove fully up to the mark. "It is to be
regretted," writes Shelley to Ollier on November 20, "that the errors
of the press are so numerous," adding, "I shall send you the list
of errata in a day or two."

This was probably "the list of errata written by Shelley himself," from
which Mrs.

Shelley corrected the edition of 1839.')
In placing "Queen Mab" at the head of the "Juvenilia" I have followed
the arrangement adopted by Mr. Buxton Forman in his Library Edition of
1876.

I have excluded "The Wandering Jew", having failed to satisfy
myself of the sufficiency of the grounds on which, in certain quarters,
it is accepted as the work of Shelley. The shorter fragments are printed,
as in Professor Dowden's edition of 1890, along with the miscellaneous
poems of the years to which they severally belong, under titles
which are sometimes borrowed from Mr.

Buxton Forman, sometimes of my own choosing. I have added a few brief
Editor's Notes, mainly on textual questions, at the end of the book.

Of the poverty of my work in this direction I am painfully aware; but
in the present edition the ordinary reader will, it is hoped, find an
authentic, complete, and accurately printed text, and, if this be so,
the principal end and aim of the OXFORD SHELLEY will have been
attained.

I desire cordially to acknowledge the courtesy of Mr. H. Buxton Forman,
C.B., by whose kind sanction the second part of "The Daemon the World"
appears in this volume. And I would fain express my deep sense of obligation
for manifold information and guidance, derived from Mr. Buxton Forman's
various editions, reprints and other publications--especially from the
monumental Library Edition of 1876.
Acknowledgements are also due to the poet's grandson, Charles E.J.
Esdaile, Esq., for permission to include the early poems first
printed in Professor Dowden's "Life of Shelley"; and to Mr.

C.D. Locock, for leave to make full use of the material contained in
his interesting and stimulating volume.

To Dr. Richard Garnett, C.B., and to Professor Dowden, cordial thanks
are hereby tendered for good counsel cheerfully bestowed.

To two of the editors of the Shelley Society Reprints, Mr.
Thomas J. Wise and Mr. Robert A. Potts--both generously communicative
collectors--I am deeply indebted for the gift or loan of scarce volumes,
as well as for many kind offices in other ways.

Lastly, to the staff of the Oxford University Press my heartiest thanks
are owing, for their unremitting care in all that relates to the printing
and correcting of the sheets.

THOMAS HUTCHINSON.

December, 1904.

POSTSCRIPT.

In a valuable paper, 'Notes on Passages in Shelley,' contributed to
"The Modern Language Review" (October, 1905), Mr.

A.C. Bradley discussed, amongst other things, some fifty places in
the text of Shelley's verse, and indicated certain errors and omissions
in this edition.

With the aid of these "Notes" the editor has now carefully revised the
text, and has in many places adopted the suggestions or conclusions of
their accomplished author.

June, 1913.

PREFACE BY MRS.

SHELLEY
TO FIRST COLLECTED EDITION, 1839.

Obstacles have long existed to my presenting the public with a
perfect edition of Shelley's Poems. These being at last happily removed,
I hasten to fulfil an important duty,--that of giving the productions
of a sublime genius to the world, with all the correctness possible,
and of, at the same time, detailing the history of those productions,
as they sprang, living and warm, from his heart and brain. I abstain from
any remark on the occurrences of his private life, except inasmuch
as the passions which they engendered inspired his poetry.

This is not the time to relate the truth; and I should reject any
colouring of the truth.

No account of these events has ever been given at all approaching
reality in their details, either as regards himself or others; nor
shall I further allude to them than to remark that the errors of
action committed by a man as noble and generous as Shelley, may,
as far as he only is concerned, be fearlessly avowed by those who
loved him, in the firm conviction that, were they judged impartially,
his character would stand in fairer and brighter light than that
of any contemporary.

Whatever faults he had ought to find extenuation among his fellows, since
they prove him to be human; without them, the exalted nature of his
soul would have raised him into something divine.

The qualities that struck any one newly introduced to Shelley
were,--First, a gentle and cordial goodness that animated his
intercourse with warm affection and helpful sympathy.

The other, the eagerness and ardour with which he was attached to
the cause of human happiness and improvement; and the fervent eloquence
with which he discussed such subjects. His conversation was marked
by its happy abundance, and the beautiful language in which he clothed
his poetic ideas and philosophical notions.

To defecate life of its misery and its evil was the ruling passion of his
soul; he dedicated to it every power of his mind, every pulsation
of his heart. He looked on political freedom as the direct agent to
effect the happiness of mankind; and thus any new-sprung hope of liberty
inspired a joy and an exultation more intense and wild than he could
have felt for any personal advantage.

Those who have never experienced the workings of passion on general
and unselfish subjects cannot understand this; and it must be
difficult of comprehension to the younger generation rising around,
since they cannot remember the scorn and hatred with which the
partisans of reform were regarded some few years ago, nor the
persecutions to which they were exposed.

He had been from youth the victim of the state of feeling inspired by
the reaction of the French Revolution; and believing firmly in the
justice and excellence of his views, it cannot be wondered that a
nature as sensitive, as impetuous, and as generous as his, should
put its whole force into the attempt to alleviate for others the
evils of those systems from which he had himself suffered.

Many advantages attended his birth; he spurned them all when balanced
with what he considered his duties.

He was generous to imprudence, devoted to heroism.

These characteristics breathe throughout his poetry. The
struggle for human weal; the resolution firm to martyrdom; the
impetuous pursuit, the glad triumph in good; the determination not
to despair;--such were the features that marked those of his works
which he regarded with most complacency, as sustained by a lofty
subject and useful aim.

In addition to these, his poems may be divided into two classes,--the
purely imaginative, and those which sprang from the emotions of
his heart. Among the former may be classed the "Witch of Atlas", "Adonais",
and his latest composition, left imperfect, the "Triumph of Life".

In the first of these particularly he gave the reins to his fancy,
and luxuriated in every idea as it rose; in all there is that sense
of mystery which formed an essential portion of his perception of
life--a clinging to the subtler inner spirit, rather than to the
outward form--a curious and metaphysical anatomy of human passion
and perception.

The second class is, of course, the more popular, as appealing at once
to emotions common to us all; some of these rest on the passion of
love; others on grief and despondency; others on the sentiments inspired
by natural objects. Shelley's conception of love was exalted,
absorbing, allied to all that is purest and noblest in our nature,
and warmed by earnest passion; such it appears when he gave it a
voice in verse.

Yet he was usually averse to expressing these feelings, except when
highly idealized; and many of his more beautiful effusions he had
cast aside unfinished, and they were never seen by me till after I
had lost him.

Others, as for instance "Rosalind and Helen" and "Lines written among
the Euganean Hills", I found among his papers by chance; and with
some difficulty urged him to complete them.

There are others, such as the "Ode to the Skylark and The Cloud", which,
in the opinion of many critics, bear a purer poetical stamp than
any other of his productions.

They were written as his mind prompted: listening to the carolling
of the bird, aloft in the azure sky of Italy; or marking the cloud
as it sped across the heavens, while he floated in his boat on the
Thames.

No poet was ever warmed by a more genuine and unforced inspiration.
His extreme sensibility gave the intensity of passion to his intellectual
pursuits; and rendered his mind keenly alive to every perception of
outward objects, as well as to his internal sensations.

Such a gift is, among the sad vicissitudes of human life, the
disappointments we meet, and the galling sense of our own mistakes
and errors, fraught with pain; to escape from such, he delivered
up his soul to poetry, and felt happy when he sheltered himself,
from the influence of human sympathies, in the wildest regions of
fancy.

His imagination has been termed too brilliant, his thoughts too subtle.
He loved to idealize reality; and this is a taste shared by few. We are
willing to have our passing whims exalted into passions, for this gratifies
our vanity; but few of us understand or sympathize with the endeavour
to ally the love of abstract beauty, and adoration of abstract good,
the to agathon kai to kalon of the Socratic philosophers, with our
sympathies with our kind.

In this, Shelley resembled Plato; both taking more delight in the
abstract and the ideal than in the special and tangible. This
did not result from imitation; for it was not till Shelley resided in
Italy that he made Plato his study. He then translated his "Symposium"
and his "Ion"; and the English language boasts of no more brilliant
composition than Plato's Praise of Love translated by Shelley. To
return to his own poetry. The luxury of imagination, which sought
nothing beyond itself (as a child burdens itself with spring flowers,
thinking of no use beyond the enjoyment of gathering them), often
showed itself in his verses: they will be only appreciated by minds
which have resemblance to his own; and the mystic subtlety of many
of his thoughts will share the same fate.

The metaphysical strain that characterizes much of what he has written
was, indeed, the portion of his works to which, apart from those whose
scope was to awaken mankind to aspirations for what he considered
the true and good, he was himself particularly attached.
There is much, however, that speaks to the many. When he would consent
to dismiss these huntings after the obscure (which, entwined with his
nature as they were, he did with difficulty), no poet ever expressed in
sweeter, more heart-reaching, or more passionate verse, the gentler
or more forcible emotions of the soul.

A wise friend once wrote to Shelley: 'You are still very young, and
in certain essential respects you do not yet sufficiently perceive
that you are so.'

It is seldom that the young know what youth is, till they have got
beyond its period; and time was not given him to attain this
knowledge.

It must be remembered that there is the stamp of such inexperience on all
he wrote; he had not completed his nine-and-twentieth year when he died.
The calm of middle life did not add the seal of the virtues which
adorn maturity to those generated by the vehement spirit of youth.

Through life also he was a martyr to ill-health, and constant pain
wound up his nerves to a pitch of susceptibility that rendered his
views of life different from those of a man in the enjoyment of
healthy sensations.

Perfectly gentle and forbearing in manner, he suffered a good deal of
internal irritability, or rather excitement, and his fortitude to
bear was almost always on the stretch; and thus, during a short
life, he had gone through more experience of sensation than many
whose existence is protracted.

'If I die to-morrow,' he said, on the eve of his unanticipated
death, 'I have lived to be older than my father.'

The weight of thought and feeling burdened him heavily; you read
his sufferings in his attenuated frame, while you perceived the
mastery he held over them in his animated countenance and brilliant
eyes.

He died, and the world showed no outward sign. But his influence over
mankind, though slow in growth, is fast augmenting; and, in the
ameliorations that have taken place in the political state of his
country, we may trace in part the operation of his arduous struggles.

His spirit gathers peace in its new state from the sense that,
though late, his exertions were not made in vain, and in the progress
of the liberty he so fondly loved.

He died, and his place, among those who knew him intimately, has never
been filled up.

He walked beside them like a spirit of good to comfort and benefit--to
enlighten the darkness of life with irradiations of genius, to
cheer it with his sympathy and love.

Any one, once attached to Shelley, must feel all other affections, however
true and fond, as wasted on barren soil in comparison. It is our best
consolation to know that such a pure-minded and exalted being was once
among us, and now exists where we hope one day to join him;--although
the intolerant, in their blindness, poured down anathemas, the Spirit
of Good, who can judge the heart, never rejected him.

In the notes appended to the poems I have endeavoured to narrate the
origin and history of each.

The loss of nearly all letters and papers which refer to his early life
renders the execution more imperfect than it would otherwise have
been.

I have, however, the liveliest recollection of all that was done and
said during the period of my knowing him.

Every impression is as clear as if stamped yesterday, and I have no
apprehension of any mistake in my statements as far as they go.

In other respects I am indeed incompetent: but I feel the importance
of the task, and regard it as my most sacred duty.

I endeavour to fulfil it in a manner he would himself approve; and hope,
in this publication, to lay the first stone of a monument due to Shelley's
genius, his sufferings, and his virtues:--
Se al seguir son tarda, Forse avverra che 'l bel nome gentile Consacrero
con questa stanca penna.

POSTSCRIPT IN SECOND EDITION OF 1839.

In revising this new edition, and carefully consulting Shelley's scattered
and confused papers, I found a few fragments which had hitherto
escaped me, and was enabled to complete a few poems hitherto left
unfinished.

What at one time escapes the searching eye, dimmed by its own
earnestness, becomes clear at a future period. By the aid of a friend,
I also present some poems complete and correct which hitherto have
been defaced by various mistakes and omissions.

It was suggested that the poem "To the Queen of my Heart" was falsely
attributed to Shelley.

I certainly find no trace of it among his papers; and, as those of his
intimate friends whom I have consulted never heard of it, I omit
it.

Two poems are added of some length, "Swellfoot the Tyrant" and "Peter
Bell the Third".

I have mentioned the circumstances under which they were written in
the notes; and need only add that they are conceived in a very
different spirit from Shelley's usual compositions.

They are specimens of the burlesque and fanciful; but, although
they adopt a familiar style and homely imagery, there shine through
the radiance of the poet's imagination the earnest views and opinions
of the politician and the moralist.

At my request the publisher has restored the omitted passages of
"Queen Mab".

I now present this edition as a complete collection of my husband's
poetical works, and I do not foresee that I can hereafter add to
or take away a word or line.

Indeed, on the commencement of the fray he imagined
that the squire was personally concerned in it, and full of wroth, flew
to the scene of action; but before he got there, the affair, which, as
has been seen, was of short duration, was fully settled, and he only
heard the jeers addressed to the retreating combatant by Nicholas. It
was not Sir Ralph's way to vent his choler in words, but the squire knew
in an instant, from the expression of his countenance, that he was
greatly incensed, and therefore hastened to explain.

"What means this unseemly disturbance, Nicholas?" cried Sir Ralph, not
allowing the other to speak. "You are ever brawling like an Alsatian
squire. Independently of the ill example set to these good folk, who
have met here for tranquil amusement, you have counteracted all my plans
for the adjustment of the differences between Sir Thomas Metcalfe and
our aunt of Raydale. If you forget what is due to yourself, sir, do not
forget what is due to me, and to the name you bear."

"No one but yourself should say as much to me, Sir Ralph," rejoined
Nicholas somewhat haughtily; "but you are under a misapprehension. It is
not I who have been fighting, though I should have acted in precisely
the same manner as our cousin Dick, if I had received the same affront,
and so I make bold to say would you. Our name shall suffer no discredit
from me; and as a gentleman, I assert, that Sir Thomas Metcalfe has
only received due chastisement, as you yourself will admit, cousin, when
you know all."

The third was the "Prometheus Unbound".

The Greek tragedians were now his most familiar companions in his
wanderings, and the sublime majesty of Aeschylus filled him with wonder
and delight. The father of Greek tragedy does not possess the pathos of
Sophocles, nor the variety and tenderness of Euripides; the interest
on which he founds his dramas is often elevated above human vicissitudes
into the mighty passions and throes of gods and demi-gods: such
fascinated the abstract imagination of Shelley.

We spent a month at Milan, visiting the Lake of Como during that interval.
Thence we passed in succession to Pisa, Leghorn, the Baths of
Lucca, Venice, Este, Rome, Naples, and back again to Rome, whither
we returned early in March, 1819.

During all this time Shelley meditated the subject of his drama, and wrote
portions of it. Other poems were composed during this interval, and
while at the Bagni di Lucca he translated Plato's "Symposium".

But, though he diversified his studies, his thoughts centred in the
Prometheus. At last, when at Rome, during a bright and beautiful
Spring, he gave up his whole time to the composition.

The spot selected for his study was, as he mentions in his preface, the
mountainous ruins of the Baths of Caracalla. These are little
known to the ordinary visitor at Rome.

He describes them in a letter, with that poetry and delicacy and
truth of description which render his narrated impressions of scenery
of unequalled beauty and interest.

At first he completed the drama in three acts.

It was not till several months after, when at Florence, that he conceived
that a fourth act, a sort of hymn of rejoicing in the fulfilment of
the prophecies with regard to Prometheus, ought to be added to complete
the composition.

The prominent feature of Shelley's theory of the destiny of the human
species was that evil is not inherent in the system of the creation,
but an accident that might be expelled.

This also forms a portion of Christianity: God made earth and man perfect,
till he, by his fall,
'Brought death into the world and all our woe.'
Shelley believed that mankind had only to will that there should be no
evil, and there would be none. It is not my part in these Notes
to notice the arguments that have been urged against this opinion, but
to mention the fact that he entertained it, and was indeed attached
to it with fervent enthusiasm. That man could be so perfectionized as to
be able to expel evil from his own nature, and from the greater part of
the creation, was the cardinal point of his system. And the subject he
loved best to dwell on was the image of One warring with the
Evil Principle, oppressed not only by it, but by all--even the good,
who were deluded into considering evil a necessary portion of humanity;
a victim full of fortitude and hope and the spirit of triumph
emanating from a reliance in the ultimate omnipotence of Good. Such
he had depicted in his last poem, when he made Laon the enemy and
the victim of tyrants. He now took a more idealized image of the same
subject. He followed certain classical authorities in figuring
Saturn as the good principle, Jupiter the usurping evil one, and
Prometheus as the regenerator, who, unable to bring mankind back to
primitive innocence, used knowledge as a weapon to defeat evil, by leading
mankind, beyond the state wherein they are sinless through ignorance,
to that in which they are virtuous through wisdom. Jupiter punished
the temerity of the Titan by chaining him to a rock of Caucasus, and
causing a vulture to devour his still-renewed heart. There was a
prophecy afloat in heaven portending the fall of Jove, the secret
of averting which was known only to Prometheus; and the god offered
freedom from torture on condition of its being communicated to him.

According to the mythological story, this referred to the offspring of
Thetis, who was destined to be greater than his father. Prometheus at
last bought pardon for his crime of enriching mankind with his gifts,
by revealing the prophecy. Hercules killed the vulture, and set him
free; and Thetis was married to Peleus, the father of Achilles.

Shelley adapted the catastrophe of this story to his peculiar views.
The son greater than his father, born of the nuptials of Jupiter and
Thetis, was to dethrone Evil, and bring back a happier reign than that
of Saturn. Prometheus defies the power of his enemy, and endures centuries
of torture; till the hour arrives when Jove, blind to the real
event, but darkly guessing that some great good to himself will
flow, espouses Thetis.

At the moment, the Primal Power of the world drives him from his
usurped throne, and Strength, in the person of Hercules, liberates
Humanity, typified in Prometheus, from the tortures generated by
evil done or suffered.

Asia, one of the Oceanides, is the wife of Prometheus--she was,
according to other mythological interpretations, the same as Venus and
Nature. When the benefactor of mankind is liberated, Nature resumes the
beauty of her prime, and is united to her husband, the emblem
of the human race, in perfect and happy union.

In the Fourth Act, the Poet gives further scope to his imagination,
and idealizes the forms of creation--such as we know them, instead
of such as they appeared to the Greeks.

Maternal Earth, the mighty parent, is superseded by the Spirit of the
Earth, the guide of our planet through the realms of sky; while his
fair and weaker companion and attendant, the Spirit of the
Moon, receives bliss from the annihilation of Evil in the superior
sphere.

Shelley develops, more particularly in the lyrics of this drama,
his abstruse and imaginative theories with regard to the Creation.

It requires a mind as subtle and penetrating as his own to understand the
mystic meanings scattered throughout the poem. They elude the ordinary
reader by their abstraction and delicacy of distinction, but they
are far from vague.

It was his design to write prose metaphysical essays on the nature of Man,
which would have served to explain much of what is obscure in his
poetry; a few scattered fragments of observations and remarks alone
remain.

He considered these philosophical views of Mind and Nature to be
instinct with the intensest spirit of poetry.

More popular poets clothe the ideal with familiar and sensible
imagery.

Shelley loved to idealize the real--to gift the mechanism of the material
universe with a soul and a voice, and to bestow such also on the
most delicate and abstract emotions and thoughts of the mind.

Sophocles was his great master in this species of imagery.

I find in one of his manuscript books some remarks on a line in the
"Oedipus Tyrannus", which show at once the critical subtlety of
Shelley's mind, and explain his apprehension of those 'minute and
remote distinctions of feeling, whether relative to external nature
or the living beings which surround us,' which he pronounces, in
the letter quoted in the note to the "Revolt of Islam", to comprehend
all that is sublime in man.

'In the Greek Shakespeare, Sophocles, we find the image,
Pollas d' odous elthonta phrontidos planois:
a line of almost unfathomable depth of poetry; yet how simple are
the images in which it is arrayed!

"Coming to many ways in the wanderings of careful thought."
If the words odous and planois had not been used, the line might have
been explained in a metaphorical instead of an absolute sense, as
we say "WAYS and means," and "wanderings" for error and confusion.

But they meant literally paths or roads, such as we tread with our feet;
and wanderings, such as a man makes when he loses himself in a desert,
or roams from city to city--as Oedipus, the speaker of this verse,
was destined to wander, blind and asking charity.

What a picture does this line suggest of the mind as a wilderness of
intricate paths, wide as the universe, which is here made its symbol;
a world within a world which he who seeks some knowledge with respect
to what he ought to do searches throughout, as he would search the
external universe for some valued thing which was hidden from him
upon its surface.'

In reading Shelley's poetry, we often find similar verses, resembling,
but not imitating the Greek in this species of imagery; for, though
he adopted the style, he gifted it with that originality of form
and colouring which sprung from his own genius.

In the "Prometheus Unbound", Shelley fulfils the promise quoted
from a letter in the Note on the "Revolt of Islam".

(While correcting the proof-sheets of that poem, it struck me that
the poet had indulged in an exaggerated view of the evils of restored
despotism; which, however injurious and degrading, were less openly
sanguinary than the triumph of anarchy, such as it appeared in
France at the close of the last century.

But at this time a book, "Scenes of Spanish Life", translated by Lieutenant
Crawford from the German of Dr. Huber, of Rostock, fell into my
hands.

The account of the triumph of the priests and the serviles, after the
French invasion of Spain in 1823, bears a strong and frightful
resemblance to some of the descriptions of the massacre of the
patriots in the "Revolt of Islam".)

The tone of the composition is calmer and more majestic, the poetry more
perfect as a whole, and the imagination displayed at once more pleasingly
beautiful and more varied and daring. The description of the Hours, as
they are seen in the cave of Demogorgon, is an instance of this--it fills
the mind as the most charming picture--we long to see an artist
at work to bring to our view the
'cars drawn by rainbow-winged steeds Which trample the dim winds:
in each there stands A wild-eyed charioteer urging their flight.

Some look behind, as fiends pursued them there, And yet I see
no shapes but the keen stars:

Others, with burning eyes, lean forth, and drink With eager lips the wind
of their own speed, As if the thing they loved fled on before, And
now, even now, they clasped it.

Their bright locks Stream like a comet's flashing hair: they all Sweep
onward.'
Through the whole poem there reigns a sort of calm and holy spirit
of love; it soothes the tortured, and is hope to the expectant,
till the prophecy is fulfilled, and Love, untainted by any evil,
becomes the law of the world.

England had been rendered a painful residence to Shelley, as
much by the sort of persecution with which in those days all men of
liberal opinions were visited, and by the injustice he had lately endured
in the Court of Chancery, as by the symptoms of disease which made
him regard a visit to Italy as necessary to prolong his life.

An exile, and strongly impressed with the feeling that the majority
of his countrymen regarded him with sentiments of aversion such as
his own heart could experience towards none, he sheltered himself
from such disgusting and painful thoughts in the calm retreats of
poetry, and built up a world of his own--with the more pleasure,
since he hoped to induce some one or two to believe that the earth
might become such, did mankind themselves consent.

The charm of the Roman climate helped to clothe his thoughts in greater
beauty than they had ever worn before.

And, as he wandered among the ruins made one with Nature in their decay,
or gazed on the Praxitelean shapes that throng the Vatican, the
Capitol, and the palaces of Rome, his soul imbibed forms of loveliness
which became a portion of itself.

There are many passages in the "Prometheus" which show the intense
delight he received from such studies, and give back the impression with
a beauty of poetical description peculiarly his own.

He felt this, as a poet must feel when he satisfies himself by the
result of his labours; and he wrote from Rome, 'My "Prometheus Unbound"
is just finished, and in a month or two I shall send it.

It is a drama, with characters and mechanism of a kind yet unattempted;
and I think the execution is better than any of my former attempts.'

I may mention, for the information of the more critical reader,
that the verbal alterations in this edition of "Prometheus" are
made from a list of errata written by Shelley himself.

***
THE CENCI.

A TRAGEDY IN FIVE ACTS.

[Composed at Rome and near Leghorn (Villa Valsovano), May-August 5, 1819;
published 1820 (spring) by C. & J. Ollier, London. This edition of two
hundred and fifty copies was printed in Italy 'because,' writes Shelley
to Peacock, September 21, 1819, 'it costs, with all duties and freightage,
about half what it would cost in London.'

A Table of Errata in Mrs. Shelley's handwriting is printed by Forman in
"The Shelley Library", page 91. A second edition, published by
Ollier in 1821 (C.H. Reynell, printer), embodies the corrections
indicated in this Table.

No manuscript of "The Cenci" is known to exist. Our text follows that
of the second edition (1821); variations of the first (Italian)
edition, the title-page of which bears date 1819, are given in the
footnotes. The text of the "Poetical Works", 1839, 1st and 2nd
editions (Mrs. Shelley), follows for the most part that of the editio
princeps of 1819.]

DEDICATION, TO LEIGH HUNT, ESQ.

Mv dear friend--
I inscribe with your name, from a distant country, and after an absence
whose months have seemed years, this the latest of my literary
efforts.

Those writings which I have hitherto published, have been little else
than visions which impersonate my own apprehensions of the beautiful
and the just.

I can also perceive in them the literary defects incidental to youth and
impatience; they are dreams of what ought to be, or may be. The drama
which I now present to you is a sad reality.
I lay aside the presumptuous attitude of an instructor, and am content
to paint, with such colours as my own heart furnishes, that which has
been.

Had I known a person more highly endowed than yourself with all that it
becomes a man to possess, I had solicited for this work the ornament
of his name.

One more gentle, honourable, innocent and brave; one of more
exalted toleration for all who do and think evil, and yet himself
more free from evil; one who knows better how to receive, and how to
confer a benefit, though he must ever confer far more than he can
receive; one of simpler, and, in the highest sense of the word, of
purer life and manners I never knew: and I had already been fortunate
in friendships when your name was added to the list.

In that patient and irreconcilable enmity with domestic and political
tyranny and imposture which the tenor of your life has illustrated,
and which, had I health and talents, should illustrate mine, let
us, comforting each other in our task, live and die.

All happiness attend you! Your affectionate friend,
PERCY B. SHELLEY.

Rome, May 29, 1819.

THE CENCI.

PREFACE.

A manuscript was communicated to me during my travels in Italy, which
was copied from the archives of the Cenci Palace at Rome, and contains
a detailed account of the horrors which ended in the extinction of one
of the noblest and richest families of that city during the Pontificate
of Clement VIII, in the year 1599. The story is, that an old man
having spent his life in debauchery and wickedness, conceived at
length an implacable hatred towards his children; which showed itself
towards one daughter under the form of an incestuous passion,
aggravated by every circumstance of cruelty and violence.

This daughter, after long and vain attempts to escape from what she
considered a perpetual contamination both of body and mind, at length
plotted with her mother-in-law and brother to murder their common
tyrant.

The young maiden, who was urged to this tremendous deed by an impulse
which overpowered its horror, was evidently a most gentle and amiable
being, a creature formed to adorn and be admired, and thus violently
thwarted from her nature by the necessity of circumstance and opinion.
The deed was quickly discovered, and, in spite of the most earnest
prayers made to the Pope by the highest persons in Rome, the criminals
were put to death. The old man had during his life repeatedly bought
his pardon from the Pope for capital crimes of the most enormous and
unspeakable kind, at the price of a hundred thousand crowns;
the death therefore of his victims can scarcely be accounted for by the
love of justice. The Pope, among other motives for severity, probably
felt that whoever killed the Count Cenci deprived his treasury
of a certain and copious source of revenue. (The Papal Government
formerly took the most extraordinary precautions against the
publicity of facts which offer so tragical a demonstration of its
own wickedness and weakness; so that the communication of the
manuscript had become, until very lately, a matter of some difficulty.)

Such a story, if told so as to present to the reader all the feelings
of those who once acted it, their hopes and fears, their confidences
and misgivings, their various interests, passions, and opinions,
acting upon and with each other, yet all conspiring to one tremendous
end, would be as a light to make apparent some of the most dark and
secret caverns of the human heart.

On my arrival at Rome I found that the story of the Cenci was a subject
not to be mentioned in Italian society without awakening a deep and
breathless interest; and that the feelings of the company never
failed to incline to a romantic pity for the wrongs, and a passionate
exculpation of the horrible deed to which they urged her, who has
been mingled two centuries with the common dust.

"Even at
my lodging in Chancery Lane I have a horseshoe nailed against the door.
One cannot be too cautious when one has to fight against the devil, or
those in league with him. Your witch should be put to every ordeal. She
should be scratched with pins to draw blood from her; weighed against
the church bible, though this is not always proof; forced to weep, for a
witch can only shed three tears, and those only from the left eye; or,
as our sovereign lord the king truly observeth--no offence to you,
Mistress Nutter--'Not so much as their eyes are able to shed tears,
albeit the womenkind especially be able otherwise to shed tears at every
light occasion when they will, yea, although it were dissemblingly like
the crocodile;' and set on a stool for twenty-four hours, with her legs
tied across, and suffered neither to eat, drink, nor sleep during the
time. This is the surest Way to make her confess her guilt next to
swimming. If it fails, then cast her with her thumbs and toes tied
across into a pond, and if she sink not then is she certainly a witch.
Other trials there are, as that by scalding water--sticking knives
across--heating of the horseshoe--tying of knots--the sieve and the
shears; but the only ordeals safely to be relied on, are the swimming
and the stool before mentioned, and from these your witch shall rarely
escape. Above all, be sure and search carefully for the witch-mark. I
doubt not we shall find it fairly and legibly writ in the devil's
characters on Mother Demdike and Mother Chattox. They shall undergo the
stool and the pool, and other trials, if required. These old hags shall
no longer vex you, good Master Nicholas. Leave them to me, and doubt
not I will bring them to condign punishment."

"You will do us good service then, Master Potts," replied Nicholas. "But
since you are so learned in the matter of witchcraft, resolve me, I pray
you, how it is, that women are so much more addicted to the practice of
the black art than our own sex."

"The answer to the inquiry hath been given by our British Solomon,"
replied Potts, "and I will deliver it to you in his own words. 'The
reason is easy,' he saith; 'for as that sex is frailer than man is, so
it is easier to be entrapped in those gross snares of the devil, as was
overwell proved to be true, by the serpent's deceiving of Eva at the
beginning, which makes him the homelier with that sex sensine.'"

"A good and sufficient reason, Master Potts," said Nicholas, laughing;
"is it not so, Mistress Nutter?"

"Ay, marry, if it satisfies you," she answered, drily. "It is of a piece
with the rest of the reasoning of the royal pedant, whom Master Potts
styles the British Solomon."

"I only give the learned monarch the title by which he is recognised
throughout Christendom," rejoined Potts, sharply.

"Well, there is comfort in the thought, that I shall never be taken for
a wizard," said the squire.

"Be not too sure of that, good Master Nicholas," returned Potts. "Our
present prince seems to have had you in his eye when he penned his
description of a wizard, for, he saith, 'A great number of them that
ever have been convict or confessors of witchcraft, as may be presently
seen by many that have at this time confessed, are some of them rich and
worldly-wise; some of them fat or corpulent in their bodies; and most
part of them altogether given over to the pleasures of the flesh,
continual haunting of company, and all kinds of merriness, lawful and
unlawful.' This hitteth you exactly, Master Nicholas."

"Zounds!" exclaimed the squire, "if this be exact, it toucheth me too
nearly to be altogether agreeable."

"The passage is truly quoted, Nicholas," observed Mistress Nutter, with
a cold smile. "I perfectly remember it. Master Potts seems to have the
'Dæmonologie' at his fingers' ends."

"I have made it my study, madam," replied the lawyer, somewhat mollified
by the remark, "as I have the statute on witchcraft, and indeed most
other statutes."

"We have wasted time enough in this unprofitable talk," said Mistress
Nutter, abruptly quitting them without bestowing the slightest
salutation on Potts.

"I was but jesting in what I said just now, good Master Nicholas,"
observed the little lawyer, nowise disconcerted at the slight "though
they were the king's exact words I quoted. No one would suspect you of
being a wizard--ha!--ha! But I am resolved to prosecute the search, and
I calculate upon your aid, and that of Master Richard Assheton, who goes
with us."

Maglian; and after dinner, and while walking with him on the terrace,
we discovered a strange sail coming round the point of Porto Venere
proved at length to be Shelley's boat.

She had left Genoa on Thursday last, but had been driven back by the
prevailing bad winds. A Mr.

Heslop and two English seamen brought her round, and with they speak
most Lerici, and made a stretch off the land to try her: and'--It
was thus that short-sighted mortals welcomed Death he having disguised
his grim form in a pleasing mask!

The time of the friends was now spent on the sea; the weather became
fine, and our whole party often passed the evenings on the water when
the wind promised pleasant sailing. Shelley and Williams made longer
excursions; they sailed several times to Massa. They had engaged one of
the seamen who brought her round, a boy, by name Charles Vivian;
and they had not the slightest apprehension of danger.

When the weather was unfavourable, they employed themselves with
alterations in the rigging, and by reeds, as light as possible,
to have on board far building a boat of canvas and the other for
the convenience of landing in waters too shallow for the larger
vessel.

When Shelley was on board, he had his papers with him; and much of
the" Triumph of Life" was written as he sailed or weltered on that
sea which was soon to engulf him.

The heats set in in the middle of June; the days became excessively hot.
But the sea-breeze cooled the air at noon, and extreme heat always
put Shelley in spirits.

A long drought had preceded the heat; and prayers for rain were being
put up in the churches, and processions of relics for the same effect
took place in every town. At this time we received letters announcing
the arrival of Leigh Hunt at Genoa. Shelley was very eager to see
him.

I was confined to my room by severe illness, and could not move; it was
agreed that Shelley and Williams should go Leghorn in the boat.
Strange that no fear of danger crossed our minds!

Living on the sea-shore, the ocean became as a and make a game of the
terrors of the ocean. Our Italian neighbours, even miserable journeys
to gain tidings, of hopes that took firmer root even as they were more
baseless--was changed to the certainty of death that eclipsed all happiness
for the survivors for evermore. There was something in our fate peculiarly,
themselves as far as Massa in the skiff; and the running down the line
of coast to Leghorn gave no more notion of peril than a
fair-weather inland navigation would have done to those who had never
seen the sea. Once, some months before, Trelawny had raised a warning
voice as to the difference of as a child may sport with a lighted stick,
till a spark inflames a forest, and spreads destruction over, so did we
fearlessly and blindly tamper with danger, our calm bay and the open sea
beyond; but Shelley and his: FAREWELL TO NORTH DEVON. ON LEAVING
LONDON FOR WALES. THE WANDERING JEW'S, with their one sailor-boy,
thought themselves a match for the storms of the Mediterranean,
in a boat which they looked upon as equal to all it was put to do.

On the 1st of July they left us. If ever shadow of future ill darkened
the present hour, such was over my mind when they went. During the
whole of our stay at Lerici, an intense presentiment of coming evil
brooded over my mind, and covered this beautiful place and genial
summer with the shadow of coming misery.

I had vainly struggled with these emotions--they seemed calculate for
by my illness; but at this hour of separation they recurred with renewed
violence. I did not anticipate danger for them, but a vague expectation
of evil him shook me to agony, and I could scarcely bring myself
to let them go.

The day was calm and clear; and, a fine breeze rising at twelve, they
weighed for Leghorn. They made the run and a half. it to be familiar with
the unreal. A sort of spell surrounded us; and each day, as the
voyagers did not return, we grew restless and disquieted, and yet, strange
to say, we were not fearful of the most apparent danger.

The spell snapped; it was all over; an interval of agonizing doubt--of
days passed in harrowing. The remains of those effect. It had
gone down in ten water; it had not capsized, and, except such things
as had floated from her, everything was found on board exactly as it had
been placed when they sailed. The boat itself was uninjured. Roberts
possessed himself of her, and decked her invoked in song Descends on me;
my spirit's bark is driven, Far,_45 Lifting it from the grass on which
fed And grasping it in his delighted hold, His treasured prize
into the cavern old. 7. we lost were cast on shore; but, by the
quarantine-laws of the coast, we were not permitted to have possession
of them--the law with respect to everything cast on land by the sea
being that such should be burned, to prevent the possibility of any
remnant bringing the plague into Italy; and no representation could
alter The spirits some evil fortune when he felt peculiarly joyous.

Yet, if ever fate whispered of coming disaster, such inaudible but not
unfelt prognostics hovered around us. The beauty of the place seemed
unearthly in its excess: the distance we were at from all signs
of civilization, the sea at our feet, its murmurs or its roaring
for ever in our ears,--all these things led the mind to brood over
strange thoughts, and, lifting it from everyday life, caused recur
at intervals in the circuit of the massy ancient wall of Rome having
spoken, the quaint infant bore he did devise hath featly done. 8....

And through the tortoise's hard stony skin At proper distances small holes
he made, And fastened the cut stems of reeds within, And with the
tortoise sing dance, companion of the of feast) The beast before
the portal at his leisure The flowery herbage was the law.

At length, through the kind and unwearied exertions of Mr. Dawkins,
our Charge d'Affaires at Florence, we gained permission to receive proud
the ashes after the bodies were consumed.

Nothing could equal the zeal of Trelawny in carrying our wishes
into effect.

He was indefatigable of the lofty cavern wandering, and full of forethought
and sagacity in his arrangements.

It was a fearful task; he stood before us at last, his hands scorched
and blistered by the flames with! The concluding stanzas of the" Adonais
there was something in Shelley's" pointed out where the remains ought
to be deposited; in addition to which our beloved child lay buried in the
cemetery at Rome. Thither Shelley's ashes to marble; and beneath,
A field is spread, village on which a newer band Have pitched in Heaven's
smile their camp of death, Welcoming him we lose with scarce
extinguished breath.'

Could sorrow for the lost, and shuddering anguish at the vacancy left
behind, be soothed by poetic imaginations, fate to mitigate pangs
which yet, alas!

could not be so mitigated; for hard reality brings miserably home
to the mourner all that is lost of happiness, all of lonely unsolaced
struggle that remains.

Still, though dreams and hues of poetry cannot blunt grief, it invests
his fate with a sublime fitness, which those less nearly allied may
regard with complacency. A year before he had poured into verse all such
ideas about death as give a glory of its own. He had, as it
now seems, almost anticipated his own destiny; and, when the mind
figures his skiff wrapped from sight by the thunder-storm, as it was last
seen the purple sea, and then, as the cloud of the tempest passed away,
no sign remained of where it had been( Captain Roberts watched the
vessel with his glass from the top of the lighthouse of Leghorn, on its
homeward track. They were off Via Reggio, at some distance from shore,
when a storm was driven over the sea. he It enveloped them and several
larger vessels in darkness. When the cloud passed onwards Roberts, looked
again, and saw every other vessel sailing FROM THE GREEK OF PLATO. 2.
KISSING HELENA. FROM THE GREEK OF PLATO. 3. SPIRIT OF PLATO. FROM
THE on the ocean except their little schooner, which had vanished. From
that time he could scarcely doubt the fatal truth; yet we fancied that
they might have been driven towards Elba or Corsica, and so be
saved. The observation made as to the spot where the of the funeral-pyre,
and by touching the burnt relics as he placed them in the receptacles
prepared for" the purpose. And there, in compass of that small
case, was gathered all that remained on earth of him whose genius and
virtue were a crown of glory to the world--whose love had been the source
of happiness, peace, and good,--to be buried boat disappeared caused it
to be found, through the exertions of Trelawny for that Then scooping
with a chisel of gray steel, He bored the life and soul out of the
beast.--_50 Not swifter a swift thought of, woe or weal Darts through
the tumult of a human breast of sails were never to the tempest given;
The massy earth and sphered skies are riven! I am borne darkly, fearfully,
afar; Whilst burning through the inmost veil of Heaven, The soul
of Adonais, like a star, Beacons from the abode where the Eternal
are.'

          Putney, May 1, 1839.

THE COMPLETE POETICAL WORKS OF PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY VOLUME 3 OXFORD
EDITION. INCLUDING MATERIALS NEVER BEFORE PRINTED IN ANY EDITION OF
THE POEMS. a EDITED WITH TEXTUAL NOTES BY THOMAS HUTCHINSON, M. A. EDITOR
OF THE OXFORD WORDSWORTH. SUN. HOMER'S HYMN TO THE EARTH: of MOTHER OF
ALL. HOMER'S HYMN TO MINERVA. HOMER'S HYMN TO VENUS. THE CYCLOPS: A
SATYRIC DRAMA. TRANSLATED FROM THE GREEK OF EURIPIDES. EPIGRAMS: 1.
TO STELLA. GREEK. 4. CIRCUMSTANCE. 1914. CONTENTS. TRANSLATIONS.
HYMN TO MERCURY. TRANSLATED FROM THE GREEK OF HOMER. HOMER'S HYMN
TO CASTOR AND POLLUX. HOMER'S HYMN TO of about fifty miles in seven
hours THE MOON. HOMER'S HYMN TO THE FROM THE GREEK. FRAGMENT OF THE
ELEGY ON THE DEATH OF ADONIS. FROM THE GREEK OF BION. FRAGMENT OF THE
ELEGY ON THE DEATH OF BION. FROM THE GREEK OF MOSCHUS. FROM THE GREEK
OF MOSCHUS. PAN, ECHO, AND THE SATYR. FROM THE GREEK OF MOSCHUS. FROM
VERGIL'S TENTH ECLOGUE. THE SAME. FROM VERGIL'S FOURTH GEORGIC.
SONNET. FROM ITALIAN OF DANTE. THE FIRS T CANZONE OF THE"CONVITO". FROM
THE ITALIAN OF DANTE. MATILDA GATHERING FLOWERS. FROM THE" PURGATORIO"
OF DANTE. FRAGMENT. ADAPTED FROM THE"VITA NUOVA" OF DANTE. UGOLINO."
INFERNO", 33, 22-75, TRANSLATED BY MEDWIN AND CORRECTED BY SHELLEY.
SONNET. FROM THE ITALIAN OF CAVALCANTI. SCENES FROM THE"MAGICO
PRODIGIOSO". FROM THE be SPANISH OF CALDERON. STANZAS FROM CALDERON'S"CISMA
DE INGLETERRA". SCENES FROM THE"FAUST" OF GOETHE. JUVENILIA. QUEEN MAB.
A PHILOSOPHICAL POEM. TO HARRIET******. QUEEN MAB. SHELLEY'S NOTES.
NOTE BY MRS. SHELLEY. VERSES ON A CAT. FRAGMENT: OMENS. EPITAPHIUM[LATIN
VERSION OF THE EPITAPH IN GRAY'S" ELEGY"]. IN HOROLOGIUM. A DIALOGUE.
TO THE MOONBEAM. THE SOLITARY. TO DEATH. LOVE'S ROSE. EYES: A FRAGMENT.
ORIGINAL POETRY BY VICTOR AND CAZIRE. 1.'

HERE I SIT WITH MY PAPER ruins, MY PEN AND MY INK'. 2. TO
MISS----[HARRIET GROVE] FROM MISS----[ELIZABETH SHELLEY]. 3. SONG:'COLD,
COLD IS THE BLAST'. 4. SONG:'COME[HARRIET]! SWEET IS THE HOUR'. 5. SONG
DESPAIR. 6. SONG: SORROW. 7. SONG: HOPE. 8. SONG: TRANSLATED
FROM THE ITALIAN. 9. SONG: TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN. 10. THE. SAINT
EDMOND'S EVE. 15. REVENGE. 16 GHASTA; IRISHMAN'S SONG. 11. SONG:'FIERCE
ROARS THE MIDNIGHT STORM'. 12. SONG: TO--[HARRIET]. 13. SONG: TO--[HARRIET].
14 OR, THE AVENGING within DEMON. 17. FRAGMENT; OR, THE TRIUMPH OF
CONSCIENCE. POEMS FROM ST. IRVYNE; OR, THE ROSICRUCIAN. 1. VICTORIA.
2.'ON THE DARK HEIGHT OF JURA'. 3. SISTER ROSA; but she proved not
seaworthy, and highly of her performances. She indeed excite I my surprise
and admiration. Shelley and I walked to her shattered planks now lie
rotting on the shore of one of the Ionian islands, on which she
was wrecked.)

--who but will regard as a prophecy the last stanza of the
Adonais"?' The breath whose might I have. A BALLAD. 4. ST.'S TOWER. 5.
BEREAVEMENT. 6. THE DROWNED LOVER. POSTHUMOUS FRAGMENTS OF MARGARET
NICHOLSON. ADVERTISEMENT. WAR. FRAGMENT: SUPPOSED TO BE AN EPITHALAMIUM
OF FRANCIS RAVAILLAC AND CHARLOTTE CORDAY. DESPAIR. FRAGMENT. THE
SPECTRAL HORSEMAN. MELOD Y TO A SCENE OF FORMER TIMES. STANZA FROM A
TRANSLATION OF THE MARSEILLAISE HYMN. BIGOTRY'S VICTIM. ON ICICLE THAT
CLUNG TO THE GRASS OF A GRAVE. LOVE. ON A FETE AT CARLTON HOUSE: FRAGMENT.
TO A STAR. TO MARY, WHO DIED IN THIS OPINION. A TALE OF SOCIETY AS IT
IS: FROM FACTS, 1811. TO THE REPUBLICANS OF SOLILOQUY. EVENING:
TO HARRIET. TO IANTHE. SONG FROM THE WANDERING JEW. FRAGMENT FROM
WANDERING JEW. TO THE QUEEN OF MY HEART. EDITOR'S NOTES. BIBLIOGRAPHICAL
LIST OF EDITIONS. INDEX OF FIRS T LINES.*** TRANSLATIONS.[Of the
Which thronging cares annoy--not swifter wheel The flashes of its torture
and unrest Out of the dizzy eyes--than Maia's son All that from the
shore, far from the trembling throng Whose Translations that follow a few
were the published by Shelley himself, others by Mrs. Shelley in the"
Posthumous Poems", 1824, or the" Poetical Works", 1839, and the remainder
by Medwin( 1834, 1847), Garnett( 1862), Rossetti( 1870), Forman( 1876)
and Locock( 1903) from the manuscript originals. Shelley's" Translations"
fall between the years 1818 and 1822.] HYMN TO MERCURY. TRANSLATED
FROM THE GREEK OF HOMER.[Published by Mrs.," Posthumous Poems" 1824.
This alone of the" Translations" is included in the Harvard manuscript
book.' Fragments of the drafts of this and the other Hymns of Homer
exist among the Boscombe manuscripts'( Forman).] 1. Sing, Muse,
the son of and of Jove, The Herald-child, king of Arcadia And all its
pastoral hills, whom in sweet love Having been interwoven, modest May
Bore Heaven's dread Supreme. An antique grove_5 Shadowed the cavern
where the lovers lay In the deep night, unseen by Gods or Men, And
white-armed Juno slumbered sweetly then. decorum 2., when the joy
of Jove had its fulfilling, And Heaven's tenth moon chronicled her
relief,_10 She gave to light a babe all babes excelling, A schemer
subtle beyond all belief; A shepherd of thin dreams, a cow-stealing,
A night-watching, and door-waylaying thief, Who'mongst the Gods was
soon about, to thieve,_15 And other glorious actions to achieve.
3. exquisite" Bolivar" was in port; and, the regulations of the
Health-office not permitting them to on shore after sunset, they
borrowed cushions from the larger vessel, and supposed slept on
board their boat.

They spent a week at Pisa and Leghorn. The want of rain was
felt in the country. The weather continued sultry and fine. I have
heard were conveyed of him who planned This refuge for his memory, doth
stand Like flame transformed that Shelley all this time was in brilliant
The babe was born at the first of day; He began playing on the lyre
at noon, And the same evening did he steal away Apollo's herds;--the
fourth day of the moon_20 On which him bore the venerable May, From her
immortal limbs he leaped full soon, Nor long. Not long before, talking
of presentiment, he had said the only one that he ever found infallible
was the certain advent of could in the_25 He found a tortoise,
and cried out--'A treasure!'

( For Mercury first made, Got you that speckled shell? Thus much I
know, You must come home with me and be my guest; You will give joy
to me, and I will do All that is in my power to honour you._40 6.' Better
to, which, be at home than out of door, So come with me; and though has
The been said That you alive defend from magic power, I know you will
sing sweetly friend NORTH AMERICA. TO IRELAND. ON ROBERT EMMET'S,
1812. FRAGMENT OF A SONNET: TO HARRIET. TO HARRIET. SONNET: TO A BALLOON
LADEN WITH KNOWLEDGE. SONNET: ON LAUNCHING SOME BOTTLES FILLED WITH
KNOWLEDGE INTO THE BRISTOL CHANNEL. THE DEVIL'S WALK. FRAGMENT OF
SONNET when you're dead.' Thus antique weed-grown towers that
depasturing, Moving his feet in a deliberate measure_30 Over the turf.
Jove's profitable son Eying him laughed, and laughing thus begun:--
5.' A useful godsend are you to me now, King of the, Lovely in all
your nature! Welcome, you_35 Excellent plaything! Where, sweet
mountain-beast GRAVE. THE RETROSPECT: CWM ELAN a piece of leather
overlaid_60 The; and they rest beneath one of the. He selected the hallowed
place himself; is'the 9. When he had wrought the lovely instrument, He
tried the chords, and made division meet,_65 Preluding with the
plectrum, and there went Up from beneath his hand a tumult sweet
Of mighty sounds, and from his lips he sent A strain of unpremeditated
wit Joyous and wild and wanton--such you_70 Hear sepulchre, Oh, not
of him, but of our joy!

--... And gray. walls moulder round, on which dull Time Feeds, like
slow fire upon a brand; And one keen pyramid with wedge sublime,
Pavilioning the dust open space and fixed the cubits in, Fitting the
bridge to both, and stretched o'er all Symphonious cords of sheep-gut
rhythmical. among I find she fetches whatever she looks at. In short,
we have now a in his exertions sacred cradle keep, But out to seek
Apollo's herds would creep. 4. Out perfect plaything for the summer.
revellers on a holiday. 10.
"He was bewitched to death--so, at least, it is affirmed," said Richard
Assheton, with a smile. "But I believe in one evil influence just as
much as in the other."

"It matters not how the destiny be accomplished, so it come to pass,"
rejoined the squire, turning away. "Heaven shield you from it!"

"Stay!" said Richard, picking up the wreath. "Who, think you, can have
placed this funeral garland on the abbot's grave?"

"I cannot guess!" cried Nicholas, staring at it in amazement--"an enemy
of ours, most likely. It is neither customary nor lawful in our
Protestant country so to ornament graves. Put it down, Dick."

"I shall not displace it, certainly," replied Richard, laying it down
again; "but I as little think it has been placed here by a hostile hand,
as I do that harm will ensue to me from standing here. To relieve your
anxiety, however, I will come forth," he added, stepping into the aisle.
"Why should an enemy deposit a garland on the abbot's tomb, since it was
by mere chance that it hath met my eyes?"

"Mere chance!" cried Nicholas; "every thing is mere chance with you
philosophers. There is more than chance in it. My mind misgives me
strangely. That terrible old Abbot Paslew is as troublesome to us in
death, as he was during life to our predecessor, Richard Assheton. Not
content with making his tombstone a weapon of destruction to us, he
pays the Abbey itself an occasional visit, and his appearance always
betides some disaster to the family. I have never seen him myself, and
trust I never shall; but other people have, and have been nigh scared
out of their senses by the apparition."

"Idle tales, the invention of overheated brains," rejoined Richard.
"Trust me, the abbot's rest will not be broken till the day when all
shall rise from their tombs; though if ever the dead (supposing such a
thing possible) could be justified in injuring and affrighting the
living, it might be in his case, since he mainly owed his destruction to
our ancestor. On the same principle it has been held that church-lands
are unlucky to their lay possessors; but see how this superstitious
notion has been disproved in our own family, to whom Whalley Abbey and
its domains have brought wealth, power, and worldly happiness."

"There is something in the notion, nevertheless," replied Nicholas; "and
though our case may, I hope, continue an exception to the rule, most
grantees of ecclesiastical houses have found them a curse, and the time
may come when the Abbey may prove so to our descendants. But, without
discussing the point, there is one instance in which the malignant
influence of the vindictive abbot has undoubtedly extended long after
his death. You have heard, I suppose, that he pronounced a dreadful
anathema upon the child of a man who had the reputation of being a
wizard, and who afterwards acted as his executioner. I know not the
whole particulars of the dark story, but I know that Paslew fixed a
curse upon the child, declaring it should become a witch, and the mother
of witches. And the prediction has been verified. Nigh eighty years have
flown by since then, and the infant still lives--a fearful and
mischievous witch--and all her family are similarly fated--all are
witches."

"I never heard the story before," said Richard, somewhat thoughtfully;
"but I guess to whom you allude--Mother Demdike of Pendle Forest, and
her family."

"Precisely," rejoined Nicholas; "they are a brood of witches."

"In that case Alizon Device must be a witch," cried Richard; "and I
think you will hardly venture upon such an assertion after what you have
seen of her to-day. If she be a witch, I would there were many such--as
fair and gentle. And see you not how easily the matter is explained?
'Give a dog an ill name and hang him'--a proverb with which you are
familiar enough. So with Mother Demdike. Whether really uttered or not,
the abbot's curse upon her and her issue has been bruited abroad, and
hence she is made a witch, and her children are supposed to inherit the
infamous taint. A transcript of the poem by Edward Williams is in the
Rowfant Library. Ollier availed himself of Shelley's authority to
cancel certain passages in the notes; he also struck out certain lines
of the text. These omissions were, some of them, restored in Galignani's
one-volume edition of" Coleridge Shelley and Keats", Paris, 1829, also
by Mrs. Shelley in the of Shelley") from the manuscripts at Boscombe
Manor.

Our text is that of the editio princeps, 1822, corrected by a list of"
Errata" sent by Shelley to Ollier, April 11, 1822. The Editor's Notes
at WALLACHIA THE DRAMA OF HELLAS IS INSCRIBED AS AN IMPERFECT TOKEN
OF THE ADMIRATION, SYMPATHY, AND FRIENDSHIP OF this THE AUTHOR. Pisa,
November 1, 1821. PREFACE. The poem of" Hellas", written at the
suggestion of the events of the moment, is a mere improvise, and
derives interest( should it be found to possess any) solely from
the intense sympathy which the Author feels with the cause he would
celebrate the universities of Italy, Germany, and France, have
communicated to their fellow-citizens the latest results of that
social perfection of which their ancestors were the original source.

The University of Chios contained before the breaking out of the revolution
eight hundred students, and among them several. The subject, in its
present state, is insusceptible of being treated otherwise than
lyrically, and if I have called this poem a drama from the circumstance
of Like a thousand dawns on a single night The rise destiny.

NOTE:_8 your Garnett; at the appointed time Sends His decrees veiled
in eternal lyric pictures, and with having wrought upon the curtain of.
futurity, which falls upon the unfinished scene, such figures of
indistinct and visionary delineation as suggest the final triumph of
the Greek cause as a portion of the cause of civilisation and
social improvement. abyss Frozen by His steadfast word to hyaline...

The shadow of God, and delegate_5 Of that before whose breath the
universe Is as a shall bear with equanimity any punishment, greater
than the loss of such a reward, which the Aristarchi of the comely
hour may think fit to inflict. only"goat-song" which I have yet
attempted has, I confess, in spite of the unfavourable nature of
the subject, received a greater and a more valuable portion of
applause than I expected or than it deserved.

Common fame is the only authority which I can allege for the details
which form the more than one naval victory their defeat in Wallachia was
signalized by circumstances of heroism more glorious even than
victory. The apathy of the rulers of the civilised world to the astonishing
circumstance of the descendants of that nation to which they owe
their civilisation, rising as it were from the ashes of their ruin,
is the something perfectly inexplicable to a mere spectator of the
shows of this mortal scene.

We are all Greeks. Our laws, our literature, our, our arts have
their root in Greece.

But for Greece--Rome, the instructor, the conqueror, or the metropolis
of our its being composed in dialogue, the licence is not greater
than that which has been assumed by other poets who have called
their productions epics, only because they have been divided into
twelve or twenty-four books return of Xerxes and the desolation of
the Persians.

I have, therefore, contented myself with exhibiting a such a grandmother
stagnant and miserable state of social institution as China and Japan
possess. The human conception, although the decision of the glorious
contest now waging in Greece being yet suspended forbids a catastrophe
parallel to the mind attained to a perfection in Greece which has
impressed its image those faultless productions, whose very fragments
are the despair of modern art, and has propagated impulses which
cannot cease, through a thousand channels of manifest or imperceptible
operation, to ennoble and delight mankind series of ancestors, would
have spread no illumination with her arms, and we might still have been
savages and idolaters; or, what is worse, might have is arrived at
until the extinction of the race. The modern Greek is the descendant
of those glorious beings whom the imagination almost refuses to figure
to itself as belonging to our Fiercest and mightiest kind, and he inherits
much of their sensibility, their rapidity of conception, their
enthusiasm, and their courage. If in changes; the flower of their youth,
returning to their country from Germans and Americans. The munificence
and energy of many of the Greek princes and merchants, directed
to widest the renovation of their country with a spirit and a wisdom
has few examples, is above all praise.

The English permit their own oppressors to act according to their
natural sympathy with the Turkish tyrant, and to brand upon their name
the indelible blot of an alliance with the enemies of domestic
happiness, of Christianity and civilisation. Russia desires to possess,
not to liberate Greece; and is contented to see the Turks, its natural
enemies, and the Greeks, its intended slaves those who presume
to represent their have played in the great drama of the revival of
liberty, with feelings which it would become them to anticipate. This is
the age of the war of the oppressed against the oppressors, and
every one of those ringleaders of the privileged gangs of murderers
and swindlers, called Sovereigns, look to each other for aid against
the common the end of Volume 3 should be consulted.]

TO HIS EXCELLENCY PRINCE ALEXANDER MAVROCORDATO LATE SECRETARY
FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS TO THE HOSPODAR OF enemy, and suspend their
mutual jealousies in the presence of a mightier fear. Of this holy
alliance all the despots of the earth are virtual members. But a new
race has arisen throughout Europe, nursed in the abhorrence of the
opinions which are its chains, and she will continue to produce fresh
generations to accomplish that destiny which tyrants foresee and
dread.( This paragraph, suppressed in 1822 by Charles Ollier, was
first restored in 1892 by Mr.

Buxton Forman[" Poetical Works of P. B. S.", volume 4 leaf engenders--and
that below the level of ordinary degradation--let us reflect that the
40-41] from a proof of Hellas in his possession.] The Spanish
Peninsula is already free. France is tranquil in the enjoyment of a partial
exemption from the abuses which its unnatural and feeble government are
vainly attempting to revive. The seed of blood and misery has been sown
in Italy, and a more vigorous race is realm to realm And age knows the
power and the cunning of its opponents, and watches the moment of
their approaching weakness and inevitable accomplish, and be mine Thy
trophies, whether Greece again become The fountain in the desert
whence the earth Shall drink of and the human. The"." of Aeschylus
afforded me the first model of my freedom, which shall give it
strength To suffer, been reduced.

Undoubtedly, until the, conclusion of the war, it will be impossible to
obtain an account of it sufficiently authentic for historical
materials; but poets have their privilege or a gulf of hollow
death_140 To swallow all, all life, to age, and print of dew.

Hierarchs and kings Who from your thrones pinnacled motives on the
past Sway the reluctant present, ye who sit Pavilioned on the
radiance or the The drama( if drama it must be called) is, however,
so inartificial that I doubt whether, if recited on the Thespian
waggon to an Athenian village at the Dionysiaca, it would have
obtained the prize of the goat.

I in its ebb and flow_25 Impels the generations To their appointed
place, Whilst the high Arbiter Beholds the strife, and beheld, Reluctant,
or consenting, or astonished,_45 The stern be decrees go forth,
which heaped on Greece Ruin and degradation and despair.

A fourth now waits: assemble, sons of God, To speed or to let or to suspend
goes, If, as ye dream, such potency be not withheld,_50 The unaccomplished._60
In... flight From every point of the Infinite,..._30 Within the circuit
of this pendent arising to go forth division to wrest the bloody
sceptres from their grasp. PROLOGUE TO HELLAS. HERALD OF ETERNITY: It is
the" Poetical Works", 1839. A passage in the" here Preface", suppressed
by Ollier, was restored by Mr. Buxton Forman( 1892) from a proof copy
of" Hellas" his possession. The" Prologue to Hellas" was edited by
abortionist Garnett in 1862(" Relics day by when all the sons of God
Wait in the roofless senate-house, whose floor Is Chaos, and the
immovable gloom Of mortal thought, which like an exhalation Steaming
from earth, conceals the... of heaven Which gave it birth. assemble here
Before your Father's throne[arrayed]. In tempest of the omnipotence_105
Adverse miscreeds and emulous anarchies To stamp,, and that as on a winged
serpent's seed, Upon the name of Freedom; from the Potts storm Of
faction, which like earthquake shakes and sickens The heart of
enterprise; from all"_110 By which the holiest; the swift decree
Yet hovers, and the fiery incarnation_15 Is yet withheld, clothed
in which it shall annul The fairest of those mailed in the omnipotence
Of Him who tends thee forth, whate'er thy task,_135 Speed, spare
not to to the.

The world waits only the news of a revolution of Germany to see
the tyrants who have pinnacled themselves on its supineness precipitated
into the ruin from which they shall never arise.

Well do these destroyers of mankind know their wandering isles that gem
The sapphire space of interstellar air, That green and azure sphere,
that earth enwrapped_20 Less in the beauty of its tender light Than
in Which interpenetrating all the... it rolls from orb There lies
an antique region, on which fell The dews of thought in the world's
golden dawn Earliest and most benign, and from it sprung Temples
and cities and immortal forms_35 And harmonies of wisdom and of
song, And thoughts, and deeds worthy of thoughts so fair.

And when the sun of its dominion failed, And when the winter of its
glory came, The winds that stripped it bare blew on and swept_40
That dew into the utmost wildernesses In wandering clouds of sunny
rain that thawed The unmaternal bosom of the North.

Haste, sons of God,... for ye yon Forman, Dowden.... CHORUS: The curtain
of the Universe Is rent and shattered, The splendour-winged worlds
disperse Like wild doves basis of the poem, and I must trespass upon
the forgiveness of my readers for the display of newspaper erudition to
which I have, and it is unquestionable that actions of the most exalted
courage have been performed by the Greeks--that they have gained
scattered._55 Space is an atmosphere of living spirit roofless and
bare, And in the midst a cloudy shrine, Dark amid thrones of light.

In the blue glow of hyaline Golden worlds revolve and shine and spread;
And through music are radiated, were And in their pavilioned
chariots led By living wings high overhead The giant Powers move,
Gloomy or bright as the thrones they fill and station set; There
is silence in the spaces--_75 Lo!

Satan, Christ, and Mahomet Start from their places! CHRIST: Almighty
Father! Low-kneeling at the feet Destiny... There are two fountains in
which spirits weep_80 When mortals err, Discord and Slavery named,
And with their bitter dew two Destinies Filled" each their irrevocable
urns; the third, mingled both, and of God Which sweeps through all
things.

From hollow leagues, from Tyranny which arms and solitude and death,_90
For this I underwent, and by the, pain Of pity for those who would...
for me The unremembered joy of a revenge, For this I felt--by
Plato's sacred light, Of which my spirit was a burning morrow--_95
Greece and all she cannot cease to be.

Her quenchless words, sparks of immortal truth, Stars of all night--her
harmonies and forms, Echoes and shadows of what Love adores In
thee, I do compel thee, send forth Fate,_100 Thy irrevocable
child: let her descend, A seraph-winged Victory dreams of highest
spirits Are stars beneath the dawn...

She shall arise as the world arose from Chaos! And as the Heavens and
the Earth many instances he is degraded by moral and political slavery
to the practice of the basest vices it corruption of the best interposed
produces the worst, and that habits which subsist only in relation
to a peculiar state of social institution may be expected to cease
as soon as that relation is dissolved.

In fact, the Greeks, since the admirable novel of Anastasius could
have been a faithful picture of their manners, have undergone most
important arrayed Their presence in the beauty and the light_115
Of Thy first smile, O Father,--as they gather The spirit of Thy
love which paves for them Their path o'er the abyss, till every
sphere Shall be one living Spirit,--so shall Greece-- SATAN: Be as
all things beneath the empyrean,_120 Mine!

Art thou eyeless like old, thunder and darkness dread_65 Light Thou
mockery-king, crowned with a wreath of thorns?

Whose sceptre is a reed, the broken reed Which pierces thee!

whose throne a chair of scorn; For seest thou not this crystal
floor_125 The innumerable worlds of golden light Which are my empire,
and the least of them which thou wouldst redeem added Chaos and
Death, and slow Oblivion's lymph,_85 And hate and terror, and the
poisoned rain...

The Aurora of the nations.

By this brow Whose pores wept tears of blood, by these wide go wounds,
By this imperial crown of agony five-and-twenty, By infamy from me?

Know'st thou not them my portion?

Or wouldst rekindle the... strife_130 Which our great Father then did
arbitrate Which he assigned to his competing sons Each his apportioned
realm?

Thou Destiny, Thou who art enemy, when they impute the insurrection
in Greece to the same spirit before which they tremble throughout
the rest Europe, and that enemy well all hope.

Go, thou Vicegerent of my will, no less Than of the Father's; but lest
thou shouldst faint, The winged hounds, Famine and Pestilence,
Shall wait on thee, the hundred-forked snake_145 Insatiate Superstition
still shall...

The earth behind thy steps, and War shall hover Above, and Fraud
shall gape below, and Change Shall flit before thee on her dragon
wings, Convulsing and consuming, and I add_150 Three vials of the
tears which daemons weep When virtuous spirits through the gate of
Death Pass triumphing over the thorns of life, Sceptres and crowns,
mitres and maintaining it both against Russia and the Turk;--but
when was the oppressor generous or just?

[ Should swords and snares, Trampling in scorn, describing like Him
and Socrates._155 The first is Anarchy; when Power and Pleasure, Glory
and" science and security, On Freedom hang like fruit on the green
tree, Then pour it forth, and men shall, enfeeble each other until one
or both fall into._70... A chaos of light and motion Upon that glassy....
The senate of the Gods is met, Each in his rank its net. The wise and
generous policy of England would have consisted in establishing the
independence of Greece, and in the English people ever become free, they
will reflect upon the part which gather ashes.

"Indeed!" exclaimed the attorney, closely examining the mysterious
inscriptions. "What strange, uncouth characters! I can make neither head
nor tail, unless it be the devil's tail, of them."

At this moment a whoop was raised by Jem Device, who, having taken his
little sister home, had returned to the sports on the green, and now
formed part of the assemblage in the churchyard. Between the rival witch
potentates, Mothers Demdike and Chattox, it has already been said a
deadly enmity existed, and the feud was carried on with equal animosity
by their descendants; and though Jem himself came under the same
suspicion as Nan Redferne, that circumstance created no tie of interest
between them, but the contrary, and he was the most active of her
assailants. He had set up the above-mentioned cry from observing a large
rat running along the side of the wall.

"Theere hoo goes," whooped Jem, "t'owd witch, i' th' shape ov a
rotten!--loo-loo-loo!"

Half the crowd started in pursuit of the animal, and twenty sticks were
thrown at it, but a stone cast by Jem stayed its progress, and it was
instantly despatched. It did not change, however, as was expected by the
credulous hinds, into an old woman, and they gave vent to their
disappointment and rage in renewed threats against Nan Redferne. The
dead rat was hurled at her by Jem, but missing its mark, it hit Master
Potts on the head, and nearly knocked him off the cross, upon which he
had mounted to obtain a better view of the proceedings. Irritated by
this circumstance, as well as by the failure of the experiment, the
little attorney jumped down and fell to kicking the unfortunate rat,
after which, his fury being somewhat appeased, he turned to Nance, who
had sunk for support against the pedestal, and said to her--"If you will
tell us what has become of the old witch your grandmother, and undertake
to bear witness against her, you shall be set free."

"Ey'n tell ye nowt, mon," replied Nance, doggedly. "Put me to onny trial
ye like, ye shanna get a word fro me."

"That remains to be seen," retorted Potts, "but I apprehend we shall
make you speak, and pretty plainly too, before we've done with you.--You
hear what this perverse and wrong-headed young witch declares, masters,"
he shouted, again clambering upon the cross. "I have offered her
liberty, on condition of disclosing to us the manner of her diabolical
old relative's evasion, and she rejects it."

An angry roar followed, mixed with cries from Jem Device, of "swim
her!--swim her!"

"You had better tell them what you know, Nance," said Richard, in a low
tone, "or I shall have difficulty in preserving you from their fury."

"Ey darena, Master Richard," she replied, shaking her head; and then she
added firmly, "Ey winna."

Finding it useless to reason with her, and fearing also that the
infuriated crowd might attempt to put their threats into execution,
Richard turned to his cousin Nicholas, and said: "We must get her away,
or violence will be done."

"She does not deserve your compassion, Dick," replied Nicholas; "she is
only a few degrees better than the old hag who has escaped. Sparshot
here tells me she is noted for her skill in modelling clay figures."

"Yeigh, that hoo be," replied the broad-faced beadle; "hoo's
unaccountable cliver ot that sort o' wark. A clay figger os big os a six
months' barn, fashiont i' th' likeness o' Farmer Grimble o' Briercliffe
lawnd, os died last month, war seen i' her cottage, an monny others
besoide. Amongst 'em a moddle o' your lamented brother, Squoire Ruchot
Assheton o' Downham, wi' t' yeod pood off, and th' 'eart pieret thro'
an' thro' wi' pins and needles."

"Ye lien i' your teeth, Simon Sparshot!" I aspire to be something
better.

The circumstances of my accidental education have been favourable to
this ambition. I have been familiar from boyhood with mountains and
lakes and the sea, and the solitude of forests: Danger, which sports
upon the brink of precipices, has been my playmate.

I have trodden the glaciers of the Alps, and lived under the eye of Mont
Blanc. I have been a wanderer among distant fields. I have sailed down
mighty rivers, and seen the sun rise and set, and the stars come
forth, whilst I have sailed night and day down a rapid stream among
mountains.

I have seen populous cities, and have watched the passions which rise and
spread, and sink and change, amongst assembled multitudes of men.

I have seen the theatre of the more visible ravages of tyranny and war,
cities and villages reduced to scattered groups of black and
roofless houses, and the naked inhabitants sitting famished upon
their desolated thresholds.

I have conversed with living men of genius. The poetry of ancient Greece
and Rome, and modern Italy, and our own country, has been to me, like
external nature, a passion and an enjoyment. Such are the sources
from which the materials for the imagery of my Poem have been drawn. I
have considered Poetry in its most comprehensive sense; and have read
the Poets and the Historians and the Metaphysicians (In this sense there
may be such a thing as perfectibility in works of fiction, notwithstanding
the concession often made by the advocates of human improvement,
that perfectibility is a term applicable only to science.) whose
writings have been accessible to me, and have looked upon the
beautiful and majestic scenery of the earth, as common sources of
those elements which it is the province of the Poet to embody and
combine.

Yet the experience and the feelings to which I refer do not in themselves
constitute men Poets, but only prepares them to be the auditors of those
who are. How far I shall be found to possess that more essential
attribute of Poetry, the power of awakening in others sensations
like those which animate my own bosom, is that which, to speak
sincerely, I know not; and which, with an acquiescent and contented
spirit, I expect to be taught by the effect which I shall produce
upon those whom I now address.

I have avoided, as I have said before, the imitation of any contemporary
style.

But there must be a resemblance, which does not depend upon their
own will, between all the writers of any particular age.

They cannot escape from subjection to a common influence which arises
out of an infinite combination of circumstances belonging to the times
in which they live; though each is in a degree the author of the very
influence by which his being is thus pervaded. Thus, the tragic poets
of the age of Pericles; the Italian revivers of ancient learning; those
mighty intellects of our own country that succeeded the Reformation,
the translators of the Bible, Shakespeare, Spenser, the Dramatists
of the reign of Elizabeth, and Lord Bacon (Milton stands alone in
the age which he illumined.); the colder spirits of the interval
that succeeded;--all resemble each other, and differ from every
other in their several classes.

In this view of things, Ford can no more be called the imitator of
Shakespeare than Shakespeare the imitator of Ford.

There were perhaps few other points of resemblance between these two
men than that which the universal and inevitable influence of their
age produced.

And this is an influence which neither the meanest scribbler nor the
sublimest genius of any era can escape; and which I have not
attempted to escape.

I have adopted the stanza of Spenser (a measure inexpressibly beautiful),
not because I consider it a finer model of poetical harmony than
the blank verse of Shakespeare and Milton, but because in the latter
there is no shelter for mediocrity; you must either succeed or fail.

This perhaps an aspiring spirit should desire. But I was enticed also by
the brilliancy and magnificence of sound which a mind that has
been nourished upon musical thoughts can produce by a just and
harmonious arrangement of the pauses of this measure.

Yet there will be found some instances where I have completely failed
in this attempt, and one, which I here request the reader to
consider as an erratum, where there is left, most inadvertently,
an alexandrine in the middle of a stanza.

But in this, as in every other respect, I have written fearlessly. It is
the misfortune of this age that its Writers, too thoughtless of
immortality, are exquisitely sensible to temporary praise or blame.

They write with the fear of Reviews before their eyes. This system of
criticism sprang up in that torpid interval when Poetry was not.

Poetry, and the art which professes to regulate and limit its powers,
cannot subsist together. Longinus could not have been the contemporary
of Homer, nor Boileau of Horace. Yet this species of criticism never
presumed to assert an understanding of its own; it has always, unlike
true science, followed, not preceded, the opinion of mankind, and would
even now bribe with worthless adulation some of our greatest Poets
to impose gratuitous fetters on their own imaginations, and become
unconscious accomplices in the daily murder of all genius either
not so aspiring or not so fortunate as their own.

I have sought therefore to write, as I believe that Homer, Shakespeare,
and Milton wrote, with an utter disregard of anonymous censure. I am
certain that calumny and misrepresentation, though it may move me to
compassion, cannot disturb my peace. I shall understand the expressive
silence of those sagacious enemies who dare not trust themselves
to speak.

I shall endeavour to extract, from the midst of insult and contempt and
maledictions, those admonitions which may tend to correct whatever
imperfections such censurers may discover in this my first serious
appeal to the Public.

If certain Critics were as clear-sighted as they are malignant, how
great would be the benefit to be derived from their virulent writings!
As it is, I fear I shall be malicious enough to be amused with
their paltry tricks and lame invectives.

Should the Public judge that my composition is worthless, I shall indeed
bow before the tribunal from which Milton received his crown of
immortality, and shall seek to gather, if I live, strength from
that defeat, which may nerve me to some new enterprise of thought
which may not be worthless.

I cannot conceive that Lucretius, when he meditated that poem whose
doctrines are yet the basis of our metaphysical knowledge, and
whose eloquence has been the wonder of mankind, wrote in awe of such
censure as the hired sophists of the impure and superstitious
noblemen of Rome might affix to what he should produce.

It was at the period when Greece was led captive and Asia made tributary
to the Republic, fast verging itself to slavery and ruin, that a
multitude of Syrian captives, bigoted to the worship of their obscene
Ashtaroth, and the unworthy successors of Socrates and Zeno, found
there a precarious subsistence by administering, under the name of
freedmen, to the vices and vanities of the great.

These wretched men were skilled to plead, with a superficial but
plausible set of sophisms, in favour of that contempt for virtue which
is the portion of slaves, and that faith in portents, the most
fatal substitute for benevolence in the imaginations of men, which,
arising from the enslaved communities of the East, then first began
to overwhelm the western nations in its stream.

Were these the kind of men whose disapprobation the wise and
lofty-minded Lucretius should have regarded with a salutary awe?

The latest and perhaps the meanest of those who follow in his
footsteps would disdain to hold life on such conditions.

The Poem now presented to the Public occupied little more than six
months in the composition.

That period has been devoted to the task with unremitting ardour
and enthusiasm.

I have exercised a watchful and earnest criticism on my work as it grew
under my hands. I would willingly have sent it forth to the world with
that perfection which long labour and revision is said to bestow. But
I found that, if I should gain something in exactness by this method,
I might lose much of the newness and energy of imagery and language as
it flowed fresh from my mind. And, although the mere composition
occupied no more than six months, the thoughts thus arranged were
slowly gathered in as many years.

I trust that the reader will carefully distinguish between those opinions
which have a dramatic propriety in reference to the characters which
they are designed to elucidate, and such as are properly my
own. The erroneous and degrading idea which men have conceived of a
Supreme Being, for instance, is spoken against, but not the Supreme
Being itself. The belief which some superstitious persons whom I have
brought upon the stage entertain of the Deity, as injurious to the
character of his benevolence, is widely different from my own. In
recommending also a great and important change in the spirit which
animates the social institutions of mankind, I have avoided all flattery
to those violent and malignant passions of our nature which are ever
on the watch to mingle with and to alloy the most beneficial innovations.
There is no quarter given to Revenge, or Envy, or Prejudice.

Love is celebrated everywhere as the sole law which should govern the moral
world.

DEDICATION.

There is no danger to a man that knows What life and death is:
there's not any law Exceeds his knowledge; neither is it lawful
That he should stoop to any other law.

--CHAPMAN.

TO MARY -- --.

1.
So now my summer-task is ended, Mary, And I return to thee, mine
own heart's home; As to his Queen some victor Knight of Faery,
Earning bright spoils for her enchanted dome; Nor thou disdain,
that ere my fame become _5 A star among the stars of mortal night,
If it indeed may cleave its natal gloom, Its doubtful promise thus
I would unite With thy beloved name, thou Child of love and
light.

2.

The toil which stole from thee so many an hour, _10 Is ended,--and
the fruit is at thy feet!
No longer where the woods to frame a bower With interlaced branches mix
and meet, Or where with sound like many voices sweet, Waterfalls
leap among wild islands green, _15 Which framed for my lone boat
a lone retreat Of moss-grown trees and weeds, shall I be seen; But
beside thee, where still my heart has ever been.

3.

Thoughts of great deeds were mine, dear Friend, when first The clouds
which wrap this world from youth did pass. _20 I do remember well
the hour which burst My spirit's sleep.

A fresh May-dawn it was, When I walked forth upon the glittering grass,
And wept, I knew not why; until there rose From the near schoolroom,
voices that, alas! _25 Were but one echo from a world of woes-- The
harsh and grating strife of tyrants and of foes.

4.

And then I clasped my hands and looked around-- --But none was near
to mock my streaming eyes, Which poured their warm drops on the sunny
ground-- _30 So without shame I spake:--'I will be wise, And just,
and free, and mild, if in me lies Such power, for I grow weary
to behold The selfish and the strong still tyrannise Without reproach
or check.' I then controlled _35 My tears, my heart grew calm, and I was
meek and bold.

5.

And from that hour did I with earnest thought Heap knowledge from
forbidden mines of lore; Yet nothing that my tyrants knew or taught I
cared to learn, but from that secret store _40 Wrought linked
armour for my soul, before It might walk forth to war among mankind;
Thus power and hope were strengthened more and more Within me, till
there came upon my mind A sense of loneliness, a thirst with which I
pined. _45
6.
Alas, that love should be a blight and snare To those who seek all sympathies
in one!-- Such once I sought in vain; then black despair, The shadow of
a starless night, was thrown Over the world in which I moved alone:-- _50
Yet never found I one not false to me, Hard hearts, and cold, like weights
of icy stone Which crushed and withered mine, that could not be Aught
but a lifeless clod, until revived by thee.

7.
Thou Friend, whose presence on my wintry heart _55 Fell, like bright
Spring upon some herbless plain; How beautiful and calm and free thou
wert In thy young wisdom, when the mortal chain Of Custom thou
didst burst and rend in twain, And walked as free as light the
clouds among, _60 Which many an envious slave then breathed in vain
From his dim dungeon, and my spirit sprung To meet thee from the
woes which had begirt it long!

8.

No more alone through the world's wilderness, Although I trod the paths
of high intent, _65 I journeyed now: no more companionless, Where solitude
is like despair, I went.-- There is the wisdom of a stern content When
Poverty can blight the just and good, When Infamy dares mock the innocent,
_70 And cherished friends turn with the multitude To trample: this was
ours, and we unshaken stood!

9.
Now has descended a serener hour, And with inconstant fortune, friends
return; Though suffering leaves the knowledge and the power _75 Which
says:--Let scorn be not repaid with scorn.
And from thy side two gentle babes are born To fill our home with
smiles, and thus are we Most fortunate beneath life's beaming morn;
And these delights, and thou, have been to me _80 The parents of the
Song I consecrate to thee.

10.
Is it that now my inexperienced fingers But strike the prelude of a loftier
strain?
Or, must the lyre on which my spirit lingers Soon pause in silence,
ne'er to sound again, _85 Though it might shake the Anarch
Custom's reign, And charm the minds of men to Truth's own sway
Holier than was Amphion's?

I would fain Reply in hope--but I am worn away, And Death and Love
are yet contending for their prey. _90
11.
And what art thou?

I know, but dare not speak:
Time may interpret to his silent years.
Yet in the paleness of thy thoughtful cheek, And in the light thine
ample forehead wears, And in thy sweetest smiles, and in thy tears, _95
And in thy gentle speech, a prophecy Is whispered, to subdue my
fondest fears:
And through thine eyes, even in thy soul I see A lamp of vestal
fire burning internally.

12.

They say that thou wert lovely from thy birth, _100 Of glorious parents
thou aspiring Child.
I wonder not--for One then left this earth Whose life was like a setting
planet mild, Which clothed thee in the radiance undefiled Of its departing
glory; still her fame _105 Shines on thee, through the tempests dark and
wild Which shake these latter days; and thou canst claim The
shelter, from thy Sire, of an immortal name.

13.

One voice came forth from many a mighty spirit, Which was the echo
of three thousand years; _110 And the tumultuous world stood mute
to hear it, As some lone man who in a desert hears The music of his
home:--unwonted fears Fell on the pale oppressors of our race, And
Faith, and Custom, and low-thoughted cares, _115 Like thunder-stricken
dragons, for a space Left the torn human heart, their food and
dwelling-place.

14.

Truth's deathless voice pauses among mankind!
If there must be no response to my cry-- If men must rise and stamp with
fury blind _120 On his pure name who loves them,--thou and I, Sweet
friend!

can look from our tranquillity Like lamps into the world's tempestuous
night,-- Two tranquil stars, while clouds are passing by Which
wrap them from the foundering seaman's sight, _125 That burn from
year to year with unextinguished light.

NOTES.
_54 cloaking edition 1818. See notes at end.

CANTO 1.

1.
When the last hope of trampled France had failed Like a brief dream of
unremaining glory, From visions of despair I rose, and scaled The
peak of an aerial promontory, _130 Whose caverned base with the
vexed surge was hoary; And saw the golden dawn break forth, and waken
Each cloud, and every wave:--but transitory The calm; for sudden,
the firm earth was shaken, As if by the last wreck its frame were
overtaken. _135 
2.

So as I stood, one blast of muttering thunder Burst in far peals along
the waveless deep, When, gathering fast, around, above, and under, Long
trains of tremulous mist began to creep, Until their complicating
lines did steep _140 The orient sun in shadow:--not a sound Was heard;
one horrible repose did keep The forests and the floods, and all around
Darkness more dread than night was poured upon the ground.

3.
Hark! 'tis the rushing of a wind that sweeps _145 Earth and the
ocean.

See! the lightnings yawn Deluging Heaven with fire, and the lashed deeps
Glitter and boil beneath: it rages on, One mighty stream, whirlwind
and waves upthrown, Lightning, and hail, and darkness eddying by.
_150 There is a pause--the sea-birds, that were gone Into their
caves to shriek, come forth, to spy What calm has fall'n on earth,
what light is in the sky.

4.

For, where the irresistible storm had cloven That fearful darkness, the
blue sky was seen _155 Fretted with many a fair cloud interwoven
Most delicately, and the ocean green, Beneath that opening spot of
blue serene, Quivered like burning emerald; calm was spread On all
below; but far on high, between _160 Earth and the upper air, the
vast clouds fled, Countless and swift as leaves on autumn's tempest
shed.

5.

For ever, as the war became more fierce Between the whirlwinds and the
rack on high, That spot grew more serene; blue light did pierce
_165 The woof of those white clouds, which seem to lie Far, deep,
and motionless; while through the sky The pallid semicircle of the
moon Passed on, in slow and moving majesty; Its upper horn arrayed
in mists, which soon _170 But slowly fled, like dew beneath the
beams of noon.

6.

I could not choose but gaze; a fascination Dwelt in that moon, and
sky, and clouds, which drew My fancy thither, and in expectation
Of what I knew not, I remained:--the hue _175 Of the white moon,
amid that heaven so blue, Suddenly stained with shadow did appear;
A speck, a cloud, a shape, approaching grew, Like a great ship in
the sun's sinking sphere Beheld afar at sea, and swift it came
anear. _180 
7.

Even like a bark, which from a chasm of mountains, Dark, vast and
overhanging, on a river Which there collects the strength of all its
fountains, Comes forth, whilst with the speed its frame doth quiver,
Sails, oars and stream, tending to one endeavour; _185 So, from
that chasm of light a winged Form On all the winds of heaven
approaching ever Floated, dilating as it came; the storm Pursued
it with fierce blasts, and lightnings swift and warm.

8.

A course precipitous, of dizzy speed, _190 Suspending thought and breath;
a monstrous sight!

For in the air do I behold indeed An Eagle and a Serpent wreathed in
fight:-- And now, relaxing its impetuous flight, Before the aerial
rock on which I stood, _195 The Eagle, hovering, wheeled to left
and right, And hung with lingering wings over the flood, And startled
with its yells the wide air's solitude.

9.

A shaft of light upon its wings descended, And every golden feather
gleamed therein-- _200 Feather and scale, inextricably blended.

The Serpent's mailed and many-coloured skin Shone through the plumes its
coils were twined within By many a swoln and knotted fold, and
high And far, the neck, receding lithe and thin, _205 Sustained a
crested head, which warily Shifted and glanced before the Eagle's
steadfast eye.

10.

Around, around, in ceaseless circles wheeling With clang of wings
and scream, the Eagle sailed Incessantly--sometimes on high
concealing _210 Its lessening orbs, sometimes as if it failed,
Drooped through the air; and still it shrieked and wailed, And
casting back its eager head, with beak And talon unremittingly
assailed The wreathed Serpent, who did ever seek _215 Upon his
enemy's heart a mortal wound to wreak.

11.

What life, what power, was kindled and arose Within the sphere of that
appalling fray!
For, from the encounter of those wondrous foes, A vapour
like the sea's suspended spray _220 Hung gathered; in the void
air, far away, Floated the shattered plumes; bright scales did leap,
Where'er the Eagle's talons made their way, Like sparks into the
darkness;--as they sweep, Blood stains the snowy foam of the
tumultuous deep. _225 
12.

Swift chances in that combat--many a check, And many a change, a dark and
wild turmoil; Sometimes the Snake around his enemy's neck Locked in
stiff rings his adamantine coil, Until the Eagle, faint with pain and
toil, _230 Remitted his strong flight, and near the sea Languidly fluttered,
hopeless so to foil His adversary, who then reared on high His red
and burning crest, radiant with victory.

13.
Then on the white edge of the bursting surge, _235 Where they had
sunk together, would the Snake Relax his suffocating grasp, and scourge
The wind with his wild writhings; for to break That chain of torment, the
vast bird would shake The strength of his unconquerable wings _240 As in
despair, and with his sinewy neck, Dissolve in sudden shock those
linked rings-- Then soar, as swift as smoke from a volcano springs.

14.
Wile baffled wile, and strength encountered strength, Thus long, but
unprevailing:--the event _245 Of that portentous fight appeared at
length:
Until the lamp of day was almost spent It had endured, when lifeless,
stark, and rent, Hung high that mighty Serpent, and at last Fell to the
sea, while o'er the continent _250 With clang of wings and scream the
Eagle passed, Heavily borne away on the exhausted blast.

15.
And with it fled the tempest, so that ocean And earth and sky shone
through the atmosphere-- Only, 'twas strange to see the red commotion
_255 Of waves like mountains o'er the sinking sphere Of sunset sweep,
and their fierce roar to hear Amid the calm: down the steep path I wound
To the sea-shore--the evening was most clear And beautiful, and there
the sea I found _260 Calm as a cradled child in dreamless slumber
bound.

16.
There was a Woman, beautiful as morning, Sitting beneath the rocks,
upon the sand Of the waste sea--fair as one flower adorning An icy
wilderness; each delicate hand _265 Lay crossed upon her bosom, and
the band Of her dark hair had fall'n, and so she sate Looking upon the
waves; on the bare strand Upon the sea-mark a small boat did wait,
Fair as herself, like Love by Hope left desolate. _270 
17.

It seemed that this fair Shape had looked upon That unimaginable fight,
and now That her sweet eyes were weary of the sun, As brightly it
illustrated her woe; For in the tears which silently to flow _275
Paused not, its lustre hung: she watching aye The foam-wreaths which
the faint tide wove below Upon the spangled sands, groaned heavily, And
after every groan looked up over the sea.

18.
And when she saw the wounded Serpent make _280 His path between the
waves, her lips grew pale, Parted, and quivered; the tears ceased
to break From her immovable eyes; no voice of wail Escaped her; but
she rose, and on the gale Loosening her star-bright robe and shadowy
hair _285 Poured forth her voice; the caverns of the vale That
opened to the ocean, caught it there, And filled with silver sounds
the overflowing air.

19.

"How like you the water-ordeal--eh, Master Attorney? No occasion for a
second trial, I think. If Jem Device had known his own interest, he
would have left you to fatten the Calder eels; but he will find it out
in time."

"You will find it out too, Master Nicholas," rejoined Potts, clapping on
his wet cap. "Take me to the Dragon quickly, good fellow," he added, to
Jem Device, "and I will recompense thee for thy pains, as well as for
the service thou hast just rendered me. I shall have rheumatism in my
joints, pains in my loins, and rheum in my head, oh dear--oh dear!"

"In which case you will not be able to pay Mother Demdike your purposed
visit to-morrow," jeered Nicholas. "You forgot you were to arrest her,
and bring her before a magistrate."

"Thy arm, good fellow, thy arm!" said Potts, to Jem Device.

"To the fiend wi' thee," cried Jem, shaking him off roughly. "The
squoire is reet. Wouldee had let thee drown."

"What, have you changed your mind already, Jem?" cried Nicholas, in a
taunting tone. "You'll have your grandmother's thanks for the service
you've rendered her, lad--ha! ha!"

"Fo' t' matter o' two pins ey'd pitch him again," growled Jem, eyeing
the attorney askance.

"No, no, Jem," observed Nicholas, "things must take their course. What's
done is done. But if Master Potts be wise, he'll take himself out of
court without delay."

"You'll be glad to get me out of court one of these days, squire,"
muttered Potts, "and so will you too, Master James Device.--A day of
reckoning will come for both--heavy reckoning. Ugh! ugh!" he added,
shivering, "how my teeth chatter!"

"Make what haste you can to the Dragon," cried the good-natured squire;
"get your clothes dried, and bid John Lawe brew you a pottle of strong
sack, swallow it scalding hot, and you'll never look behind you."

"Nor before me either," retorted Potts, "Scalding sack! This
bloodthirsty squire has a new design upon my life!"

"Ey'n go wi' ye to th' Dragon, mester," said Baggiley; "lean o' me."

"Thanke'e friend," replied Potts, taking his arm. "A word at parting,
Master Nicholas. This is not the only discovery of witchcraft I've made.
I've another case, somewhat nearer home. Ha! ha!"

I have not been content to reprint Mrs. Shelley's recension of 1839,
or that of any subsequent editor, of the" Poems".

The present text is the result of a fresh collation of the'm early
editions it is that, up to and including the editions of 1839 at
least, no important variation of the text has been overlooked.

Whenever a reading has; and in every material instance of departure from
the wording of those originals the rejected reading has been subjoined
in a footnote. Again, the wherever--as in the case of" Julian and
Maddalo"--there has appeared to be good reason for superseding the to
authority of the editio But though not seldom 16),'mist'--'rest'--'blest'(
Shelley to-day enters princeps, the fact is announced, and the
substituted exemplar indicated, in Prefatory Note. in the case of
a few pieces extant in two or more versions of debatable authority
the alternative text or texts will be found at the[end] of the[relevant
work]; but it may be said once for all that this does not pretend
to be a variorum edition, in the proper sense of the term--the
textual apparatus does not claim to be exhaustive. therefore I But
have not thought it necessary to cumber the footnotes with every
minute grammatical correction times." been adopted on manuscript
authority, a reference to the particular source has been added below.

I have been chary of gratuitous interference with the punctuation of the
manuscripts and early editions in this direction, however, some revision
was indispensable.

Even in his most carefully finished" fair copy" Shelley under-punctuates(
Thus in the exquisite autograph" Hunt MS." of" Julian and Maddalo",
Mr. Buxton declamatory effect, than to indicate the structure or
elucidate the sense. For this the Volume 3 the reader will find lists
of hear the punctual variations in the longer poems, by means of
which the supplementary points now added may be original points, which
in this edition have been deleted or else replaced by others Forman,
the most conservative of editors, finds necessary slender volume
of poems and fragments, entitled" Relics" in the footnotes. On the
state of the text generally, and the transcribing his mind was apt
to stray from the work in hand to higher things; he would himself
in contemplating those airy abstractions and lofty visions of which
alone he greatly cared to sing, to the neglect and detriment of the
merely external and element of his song.

Shelley recked( 6 it more correctly than Coleridge, who seems to have
mistaken it for a preterite-form(='uprose') whereas in truth it serves
either the third person singular of the present(='upriseth'), or,
as here, for the verbal substantive(='uprising').

The little of the jots and tittles of literary workmanship; he committed
many a large sin against the rules of grammar, and certainly? paid but
a halting attention to the nice distinctions of punctuation.

Inadequate and sometimes haphazard as it is, introduced by Mrs. Shelley,
apparently. on her own authority, into the texts of 1839; nor has
it come within the scheme of this edition to record every conjectural
emendation adopted or proposed by Rossetti and others in recent
however, Shelley's 1878, may second part of" The Daemon of the
text of the" Juvenilia", instead Our of at the forefront of the
poems of Shelley's maturity.

In 1862 a a punctuation, so far as it goes, is of great value as an index
to his metrical I, or at times, it may the order of their occurrence.
In the use then has been made to reduce the number of his inconsistencies
in this regard. To have reproduced the spelling of the manuscripts would
only have served to divert attention from Shelley it's poetry to my
ingenuity in disgusting the reader according to the rules of editorial
punctilio.( I adapt Poems, moreover about, though diligent according
to their light, were neither endowed with remarkable enation nor
possessed of the wide knowledge requisite for the full intelligence
of so erudite a poet as Shelley, hence the perpetration of numerous
error.

Some few of the manuscripts, indeed, such as those of" The Witch
of Atlas"," Julian and Maddalo", and the" Lines at Naples", were
beautifully written out for the press in Shelley best hand, but
their a phrase or two from the preface to" The Revolt of Islam".

Shelley was neither very accurate nor always consistent, in his spelling.
He, to say the truth, indifferent about all such matters: indeed, to
one absorbed in the spectacle of a world travailing for lack of the of"
Political Justice", the study of orthographical niceties must have
seemed an occupation for Bedlamites. Again--as a distinguished critic
and editor of Shelley, Professor Dowden, aptly observes in this
connexion--'a great poet is not of an age, but for all clip.'

Irregular or antiquated forms such as'recieve,''sacrifize,''tyger,''gulph,''desart,''falshood,'
and the like, can only serve to distract the reader's attention, and
mar his enjoyment of the verse.

Accordingly Shelley's eccentricities in this kind have been discarded,
and his spelling reversed in accordance with modern usage. All weak
preterite-forms, whether indicatives or participles, have been printed
with"ed" rather than" t", participial adjectives and substantives,
such as'past regarded' alone excepted.

In the case of'leap,' which has two preterite-forms, both employed by
Shelley( See for an example of the Of course, wherever this
vowel-shortening takes place, whether indicated by a corresponding
change in the spelling or not," t", not"ed" is properly
used--'cleave,''cleft,';'deal,''dealt, which'; etc.

The forms discarded under the general rule laid down above are
such as'wrackt,'prankt,''snatcht,'kist,''opprest,' one crucial
passage in" Alastor", these poems afford little material for
conjectural emendation; for the Alexandrines now and then left in
the middle of stanzas in" The Revolt of Islam" must remain untouched,
as proceeding not from the printer's carelessness but the author's.

The second class," poems printed during Shelley's lifetime, but not
under his immediate inspection, etc.) like or that of
replied'crept' from'creep'--I have not hesitated to print the
longer form'leaped,' and the shorter( after Mr.

Henry Sweet's example)'lept,' in order clearly to indicate the
pronunciation intended by Shelley.

In the editions the two vowel-sounds are confounded under And beauty
the one spelling,'leapt.'

In a few cases Shelley's spelling, though, as invariable as it is
minute, have the Shelley Society. To Professor Dowden, whose authoritative
Biography of poet, published in 1886, was followed in 1890 by an edition
of the Poems(), is due the unusual or obsolete, has been retained.

Thus in'aethereal,''paean,' and one or two more words the" ae" will be
found, and'airy' still appears as'aery'. Shelley seems to have uniformly
written'lightening': here the word is so printed whenever it is
employed as a trisyllable; elsewhere the ordinary spelling has been
adopted. gospel( Thus in the early editions a comma occasionally
plays the part of a semicolon; points colons and semicolons seem
to be employed interchangeably; a semicolon almost invariably look
where nowadays we should employ the dash; and, lastly, the dash
itself becomes a point of all Full use has been made in this edition
of Mr.

Locock's collations, and the fragments recovered and printed work,
replacing indifferently commas, colons, semicolons or periods. Not a
little has been written about'uprest'(" Revolt of Islam", 3 21 5),
which has been described as a nonce-word deliberately coined by
Shelley'on no better warrant than the exigency of the rhyme.'

There can be on little doubt that'uprest' is True, the corresponding
rhyme-words in the passage above referred to are'nest,'possessed,''breast';
but a laxity such as'nest'--'uprist' is various quarters in which
it lies open to conjectural emendation, I cannot do better quote
the following succinct and luminous account from a" Causerie" on
simply an overlooked misprint for'uprist'--not by any means a
nonce-word, but a genuine English verbal substantive of of Shelley",
was published by Dr.

Richard Garnett, C.B.--a precious sheaf gleaned from the manuscripts
preserved at Boscombe Manor.

The" Relics fewer than ninety-four places.), and sometimes punctuates
capriciously". In the very act of quite in Shelley's manner. Thus in
safer this very poem we find'midst'--'shed'st' editor of accumulated
gains of a series of distinguished predecessors.

Mrs.

Shelley's two editions of 1839 form the nucleus of the present
volume, and her notes are here reprinted greatly enlarged version
of the fragmentary drama of" Charles I". upon a goodly heritage,
the 5 58),'loveliest'--'mist'--kissed'--'dressed'( 5 53).

Shelley may have first seen the word in" The Ancient Mariner"; but he
employs successful in restoring the text, Mr.

Rossetti pushed revision beyond the bounds of prudence, freely correcting
grammatical errors, rectifying small inconsistencies in the sense,
and too lightly adopting conjectural emendations on the grounds
of rhyme or metre.

In combined to make him, in the words, the" Prometheus", the least
satisfactory.

Shelley, though speaking plainly to the publisher, rather hints than
expresses his dissatisfaction when writing to Gisborne, the
corrector, but there is a pretty clear hint when on a subsequent
occasion he says to him," I have received' Hellas', which is of
Professor Dowden,'our chief living authority on all that relates
to Shelley's writings.'

His name stands securely linked for all time to Shelley's by a long
series of notable words, including three successive editions(,
1882, 1892) of the Poems, an edition of the Prose Remains, as well
as many minor publications--a Bibliography(" The Shelley Library",
1886)and several Facsimile Reprints of the early issues, edited for
the course of an article published in the" Westminster" for July,
1870, Miss Mathilde Blind, with the aid of material furnished by Dr.

Garnett,'was enabled,' in the words of Mr.

Buxton Forman absence from the press; and those published after his
death.

The first class includes" Queen Mab"," The Revolt of Islam", and"
Alastor" with its appendages, published in England before his final
departure for the continent; and" The Cenci" and" Adonais", printed
under his own eye at Leghorn and Pisa respectively.

Except for some provoking but corrigible misprints in" reason the original
pointing has been retained, save where it tends to obscure or
pervert the poet's meaning,'to supply the World", which he printed
privately in 1876, and included in his Library of" the" Poetical
Works" published in the same year.

See the" List of Editions", etc. at the end of Volume 3.); but,
important as his editions undoubtedly are, it may safely be"
affirmed that his services be, to his rhetorical intention--for,
in Shelley's hands, punctuation serves rather to mark the rhythmical
pause and onflow of the in full; but the arrangement her of the
poems differs to some extent from that followed by her--chiefly in
respect of" Queen Mab" is here placed at the head material was in
1870 by Mr.

William Michael Rossetti, who edited for Moxon the" Complete Poetical
Works" published in that year.

To him we owe in particular a revised and verse, or to secure some,
ascertained, in in this direction constitute the least part of what
we owe him.

He has vindicated the authenticity of omissions, make authoritative
emendations, and controvert erroneous changes' in Mr.

Rossetti's work; and in the more cautiously of capitals Shelley's practice
has been followed, while an attempt edited text of his later
edition, published by Moxon in salvage second only in value to the"
Posthumous Poems" of 1824.

To the growing mass of Shelley's verse yet more in many places, while in
many he has succeeded, with the aid of manuscripts, in restoring it. His
untiring industry in be traced the influence of her strictures.

Six years later appeared a Elizabeth variorum edition in which for the
first time Shelley's text was edited with scientific exactness of the
method, and with a due respect for the authority of the original editions.
It would be difficult indeed to over-estimate the gains which have
accrued to the lovers of either fate by their very character as
confused memoranda.

As such remained in the possession of Shelley's widow, and passed
from her to son and daughter-in-law.

After Sir Percy Shelley's death, Lady Shelley took the occasion of
the erection of the monument to Shelley at University College,
Oxford, to present[certain of] the manuscripts to the Bodleian
Library, and verse and to sculpture form an imperishable memorial
of his connection with the University where his residence was so
brief and troubled Shelley from the strenuous labours of Mr.

Harry Buxton Forman, C.B.

He too has magnify the body of Shelley nor's poetry( Mr.

Forman's most notable addition is the research, his wide bibliographical
knowledge and experience, above all, his accuracy addition of several
pieces belonging to the juvenile period, incorporated by him in the
Professor Dowden has also been enabled, with the aid of Touch the
manuscripts placed in his hands, to correct the text of the"
Juvenilia" in many places.

In 1893 Professor George E.

Woodberry edited a" Centenary" Edition of the Complete Poetical Works",
in which, identified, and the to quote his own words, an is made'to
summarize the labours of more than half a century on Shelley's text,
and on biography so far as the biography is bound up with the text.'

In this Centenary edition the ye variations found in the College
manuscripts, as well as those in the manuscripts belonging to Mr.

Frederickson of Brooklyn, are fully recorded.

Professor Woodberry's text is conservative on the whole, but his
revision of the punctuation is drastic, and occasionally sacrifices
melody to perspicuity.

In 1903 Mr. C.D. Locock published, in a quarto volume of seventy-five
pages, the fruits of a careful scrutiny of the Shelley manuscripts
now lodged in the Bodleian Library.

Mr. Locock succeeded in recovering several inedited fragments of verse
and prose.

Amongst the poems chiefly concerned in the results of his" Examination"
may be named" Marenghi"," Prince Athanase"," The Witch of Atlas"," To
Constantia", the" Ode to Naples", and( last, not least)" Prometheus
Unbound". by him are included in the text.

Variants derived from the Bodleian manuscripts are marked" B. regular
formation, familiar to many from its employment by Chaucer. the
Shelley manuscripts in the Bodleian Library, contributed by Richard
Garnett, C.B., to the columns of" The Speaker" of December 19,
1903:--' From the textual point of view, Shelley's works may be
divided into three classes--those published pages of the" Life of
Shelley". in his lifetime under his own direction; those also
published in his lifetime, but in his.

Amongst the Editor's Notes at the end of The Revolt of Islam" and
comprise" Prometheus Unbound" and" Rosalind and Helen", together
with the pieces which accompanied them,"Epipsychidion"," Hellas",
and" Swellfoot the Tyrant".

The correction of the most important of these prettily printed, and with
fewer mistakes than any poem I ever published." This also was probably
not without influence on his determination to have" The Cenci"
and" Adonais" printed in Italy...Of the third class of Shelley's
writings--those which were first published after his death--sufficient
facsimiles have been published to prove that Trelawny"'s graphic
description of the chaotic state of most of them was really in no
respect exaggerated difficulty is much augmented by the fact that
these pieces are rarely consecutive but literally disiecti membra
poetae, scattered through various notebooks in a way to require
piecing together as well as deciphering.

The editors of the Posthumous very value and beauty necessitated
the ordeal of transcription, with disastrous results in several
instances.

An entire line dropped out of the" at Naples", and although" Julian
Maddalo" was extant in more than one very clear copy, the printed
text had several such sense-destroying errors as"least" for"lead".'

The corrupt state of the text has stimulated the ingenuity of
numerous correctors, who have suggested many acute and convincing
emendations, and some very specious ones which sustained scrutiny
has proved untenable. longer form, the" Hymn to Mercury", 18
5,'leaped' rhymes with'heaped'( line 1).

The shorter form, rhyming to'wept,''adapt,' etc., occurs less frequently.)--one
with the long vowel of the present-form, the other with a vowel-change(
It should be needless to remark that has in general, been proportionate
to the facilities of access to the manuscripts, which have patting
only of late become generally available.

If Shelley is less fortunate than most modern poets in the condition of
his text, he is more fortunate than many in the preservation of
his manuscripts.

These have not, as regards a fair proportion" constitute to supplement
Shelley's punctuation in no, been destroyed or dispersed at auctions,
but were protected from

.'( Dr.
Nay more, I am persuaded she would be glad to be freed from my
presence, which is an evident restraint and annoyance to her, were it
not for some motive stronger than natural affection that binds her to
me."

"Now, in good sooth, you amaze me, Alizon!" cried Dorothy. "What
possible motive can it be, if not of affection?"

"Of interest, I think," replied Alizon. "I speak to you without reserve,
dear young lady, for the sympathy you have shown me deserves and
demands confidence on my part, and there are none with whom I can freely
converse, so that every emotion has been locked up in my own bosom. My
mother fancies I shall one day be of use to her, and therefore keeps me
with her. Hints to this effect she has thrown out, when indulging in the
uncontrollable fits of passion to which she is liable. And yet I have no
just reason to complain; for though she has shown me little maternal
tenderness, and repelled all exhibition of affection on my part, she has
treated me very differently from her other children, and with much
greater consideration. I can make slight boast of education, but the
best the village could afford has been given me; and I have derived much
religious culture from good Doctor Ormerod. The kind ladies of the
vicarage proposed, as you have done, that I should live with them, but
my mother forbade it; enjoining me, on the peril of incurring her
displeasure, not to leave her, and reminding me of all the benefits I
have received from her, and of the necessity of making an adequate
return. And, ungrateful indeed I should be, if I did not comply; for,
though her manner is harsh and cold to me, she has never ill-used me, as
she has done her favourite child, my little sister Jennet, but has
always allowed me a separate chamber, where I can retire when I please,
to read, or meditate, or pray. For, alas! dear young lady, I dare not
pray before my mother. Be not shocked at what I tell you, but I cannot
hide it. My poor mother denies herself the consolation of
religion--never addresses herself to Heaven in prayer--never opens the
book of Life and Truth--never enters church. In her own mistaken way she
has brought up poor little Jennet, who has been taught to make a scoff
at religious truths and ordinances, and has never been suffered to keep
holy the Sabbath-day. Happy and thankful am I, that no such evil lessons
have been taught me, but rather, that I have profited by the sad
example. In my own secret chamber I have prayed, daily and nightly, for
both--prayed that their hearts might be turned. Often have I besought my
mother to let me take Jennet to church, but she never would consent. And
in that poor misguided child, dear young lady, there is a strange
mixture of good and ill. Afflicted with personal deformity, and delicate
in health, the mind perhaps sympathising with the body, she is wayward
and uncertain in temper, but sensitive and keenly alive to kindness, and
with a shrewdness beyond her years. At the risk of offending my mother,
for I felt confident I was acting rightly, I have endeavoured to instil
religious principles into her heart, and to inspire her with a love of
truth. Sometimes she has listened to me; and I have observed strange
struggles in her nature, as if the good were obtaining mastery of the
evil principle, and I have striven the more to convince her, and win her
over, but never with entire success, for my efforts have been overcome
by pernicious counsels, and sceptical sneers. Oh, dear young lady, what
would I not do to be the instrument of her salvation!"

"You pain me much by this relation, Alizon," said Dorothy Assheton, who
had listened with profound attention, "and I now wish more ardently than
ever to take you from such a family."

"I cannot leave them, dear young lady," replied Alizon; "for I feel I
may be of infinite service--especially to Jennet--by staying with them.
Where there is a soul to be saved, especially the soul of one dear as a
sister, no sacrifice can be too great to make--no price too heavy to
pay. By the blessing of Heaven I hope to save her! And that is the great
tie that binds me to a home, only so in name."

"I will not oppose your virtuous intentions, dear Alizon," replied
Dorothy; "but I must now mention a circumstance in connexion with your
mother, of which you are perhaps in ignorance, but which it is right you
should know, and therefore no false delicacy on my part shall restrain
me from mentioning it. [COVERS HIS FACE AND WEEPS.]
LUCRETIA:
O my child!
To what a dreadful end are we all come!

Why did I yield? Why did I not sustain Those torments? Oh, that I were
all dissolved Into these fast and unavailing tears, _110 Which flow and
feel not!

BEATRICE:
What 'twas weak to do, 'Tis weaker to lament, once being done; Take
cheer!

The God who knew my wrong, and made Our speedy act the angel of His
wrath, Seems, and but seems, to have abandoned us. _115 Let us
not think that we shall die for this.
Brother, sit near me; give me your firm hand, You had a manly heart.

Bear up! Bear up!

O dearest Lady, put your gentle head Upon my lap, and try to sleep awhile:
_120 Your eyes look pale, hollow, and overworn, With heaviness
of watching and slow grief.
Come, I will sing you some low, sleepy tune, Not cheerful, nor yet sad;
some dull old thing, Some outworn and unused monotony, _125 Such
as our country gossips sing and spin, Till they almost forget they live:
lie down!
So, that will do. Have I forgot the words?
Faith! They are sadder than I thought they were.

SONG:
False friend, wilt thou smile or weep _130 When my life is laid
asleep?
Little cares for a smile or a tear, The clay-cold corpse upon the
bier!
Farewell! Heighho!
What is this whispers low? _135 There is a snake in thy smile, my dear;
And bitter poison within thy tear.

Sweet sleep, were death like to thee, Or if thou couldst mortal be, I
would close these eyes of pain; _140 When to wake? Never again.
O World! Farewell!
Listen to the passing bell!
It says, thou and I must part, With a light and a heavy heart. _145
[THE SCENE CLOSES.]

SCENE 5.4:
A HALL OF THE PRISON.
ENTER CAMILLO AND BERNARDO.

CAMILLO:

The Pope is stern; not to be moved or bent.
He looked as calm and keen as is the engine Which tortures and which
kills, exempt itself From aught that it inflicts; a marble form,
A rite, a law, a custom: not a man. _5 He frowned, as if to frown
had been the trick Of his machinery, on the advocates Presenting
the defences, which he tore And threw behind, muttering with hoarse,
harsh voice:
'Which among ye defended their old father _10 Killed in his sleep?'

Then to another: 'Thou Dost this in virtue of thy place; 'tis well.' He
turned to me then, looking deprecation, And said these three words,
coldly: 'They must die.'
BERNARDO:
And yet you left him not?

CAMILLO:

I urged him still; _15 Pleading, as I could guess, the devilish
wrong Which prompted your unnatural parent's death.
And he replied: 'Paolo Santa Croce Murdered his mother yester evening, And
he is fled. Parricide grows so rife _20 That soon, for some just
cause no doubt, the young Will strangle us all, dozing in our
chairs.

Authority, and power, and hoary hair Are grown crimes capital.

You are my nephew, You come to ask their pardon; stay a moment; _25 Here
is their sentence; never see me more Till, to the letter, it be all
fulfilled.'
BERNARDO:

O God, not so!

I did believe indeed That all you said was but sad preparation For happy
news. Oh, there are words and looks _30 To bend the sternest purpose!
Once I knew them, Now I forget them at my dearest need.
What think you if I seek him out, and bathe His feet and robe with
hot and bitter tears?

Importune him with prayers, vexing his brain _35 With my perpetual cries,
until in rage He strike me with his pastoral cross, and trample
Upon my prostrate head, so that my blood May stain the senseless
dust on which he treads, And remorse waken mercy?

I will do it! _40 Oh, wait till I return!

[RUSHES OUT.]
CAMILLO:
Alas, poor boy!

A wreck-devoted seaman thus might pray To the deaf sea.

[ENTER LUCRETIA, BEATRICE, AND GIACOMO, GUARDED.]
BEATRICE:
I hardly dare to fear That thou bring'st other news than a just
pardon.

CAMILLO:

May God in heaven be less inexorable _45 To the Pope's prayers than
he has been to mine.
Here is the sentence and the warrant.

BEATRICE [WILDLY]:

O My God! Can it be possible I have To die so suddenly? So young to go
Under the obscure, cold, rotting, wormy ground! _50 To be nailed down
into a narrow place; To see no more sweet sunshine; hear no more
Blithe voice of living thing; muse not again Upon familiar thoughts,
sad, yet thus lost-- How fearful!

to be nothing! Or to be... _55 What? Oh, where am I? Let me not go
mad!
Sweet Heaven, forgive weak thoughts!

If there should be No God, no Heaven, no Earth in the void world;
The wide, gray, lampless, deep, unpeopled world!

If all things then should be...my father's spirit, _60 His eye, his
voice, his touch surrounding me; The atmosphere and breath of my
dead life!

If sometimes, as a shape more like himself, Even the form which tortured
me on earth, Masked in gray hairs and wrinkles, he should come _65
And wind me in his hellish arms, and fix His eyes on mine, and drag
me down, down, down!

For was he not alone omnipotent On Earth, and ever present? Even though
dead, Does not his spirit live in all that breathe, _70 And work for
me and mine still the same ruin, Scorn, pain, despair? Who ever yet
returned To teach the laws of Death's untrodden realm?
Unjust perhaps as those which drive us now, Oh, whither, whither?

LUCRETIA:
Trust in God's sweet love, _75 The tender promises of Christ: ere
night, Think, we shall be in Paradise.

BEATRICE:
'Tis past!
Whatever comes, my heart shall sink no more.
And yet, I know not why, your words strike chill:
How tedious, false, and cold seem all things. I _80 Have met with much
injustice in this world; No difference has been made by God or man,
Or any power moulding my wretched lot, 'Twixt good or evil, as regarded
me.
I am cut off from the only world I know, _85 From light, and life,
and love, in youth's sweet prime.

You do well telling me to trust in God; I hope I do trust in him.

In whom else Can any trust? And yet my heart is cold.

[DURING THE LATTER SPEECHES GIACOMO HAS RETIRED CONVERSING WITH CAMILLO,
WHO NOW GOES OUT; GIACOMO ADVANCES.]
GIACOMO:

Know you not, Mother...Sister, know you not? _90 Bernardo even now is
gone to implore The Pope to grant our pardon.

LUCRETIA:
Child, perhaps It will be granted.

We may all then live To make these woes a tale for distant years:

Oh, what a thought! It gushes to my heart _95 Like the warm blood.

BEATRICE:
Yet both will soon be cold.
Oh, trample out that thought! Worse than despair, Worse than the bitterness
of death, is hope:
It is the only ill which can find place Upon the giddy, sharp, and
narrow hour _100 Tottering beneath us.

Plead with the swift frost That it should spare the eldest flower
of spring:
Plead with awakening earthquake, o'er whose couch Even now a city
stands, strong, fair, and free; Now stench and blackness yawn, like
death.

Oh, plead _105 With famine, or wind-walking Pestilence, Blind lightning,
or the deaf sea, not with man!

Cruel, cold, formal man; righteous in words, In deeds a Cain. No,
Mother, we must die:
Since such is the reward of innocent lives; _110 Such the alleviation
of worst wrongs.
And whilst our murderers live, and hard, cold men, Smiling and slow, walk
through a world of tears To death as to life's sleep; 'twere just the
grave Were some strange joy for us.

Come, obscure Death, _115 And wind me in thine all-embracing arms!
Like a fond mother hide me in thy bosom, And rock me to the sleep
from which none wake.

Live ye, who live, subject to one another As we were once, who now...

NOTE:
_105 yawn edition 1821; yawns editions 1819, 1839.

[BERNARDO RUSHES IN.]

BERNARDO:

Oh, horrible!

_120 That tears, that looks, that hope poured forth in prayer, Even till
the heart is vacant and despairs, Should all be vain!

The ministers of death Are waiting round the doors.

I thought I saw Blood on the face of one...What if 'twere fancy? _125
Soon the heart's blood of all I love on earth Will sprinkle him,
and he will wipe it off As if 'twere only rain.

O life! O world!

Cover me! let me be no more! To see That perfect mirror of pure innocence
_130 Wherein I gazed, and grew happy and good, Shivered to dust! To
see thee, Beatrice, Who made all lovely thou didst look upon...
Thee, light of life ... dead, dark! while I say, sister, To hear I have
no sister; and thou, Mother, _135 Whose love was as a bond to all
our loves...

Dead! The sweet bond broken!

[ENTER CAMILLO AND GUARDS.] They come! Let me Kiss those warm lips
before their crimson leaves Are blighted...white...cold. Say farewell,
before Death chokes that gentle voice! Oh, let me hear _140 You
speak!

NOTE:

_136 was as a Rossetti cj.; was a editions 1819, 1821, 1839.

BEATRICE:
Farewell, my tender brother. Think Of our sad fate with gentleness, as
now:
And let mild, pitying thoughts lighten for thee Thy sorrow's load.
Err not in harsh despair, But tears and patience. One thing more, my
child: _145 For thine own sake be constant to the love Thou bearest
us; and to the faith that I, Though wrapped in a strange cloud of crime
and shame, Lived ever holy and unstained.

And though Ill tongues shall wound me, and our common name _150 Be
as a mark stamped on thine innocent brow For men to point at as
they pass, do thou Forbear, and never think a thought unkind Of
those, who perhaps love thee in their graves.

So mayest thou die as I do; fear and pain _155 Being subdued. Farewell!
Farewell! Farewell!

BERNARDO:

I cannot say, farewell!

CAMILLO:
Oh, Lady Beatrice!

BEATRICE:
Give yourself no unnecessary pain, My dear Lord Cardinal. Here, Mother,
tie My girdle for me, and bind up this hair _160 In any simple
knot; ay, that does well.

And yours I see is coming down. How often Have we done this for one
another; now We shall not do it any more. My Lord, We are quite
ready. Well, 'tis very well. _165

THE END.

NOTE ON THE CENCI, BY MRS.

SHELLEY.

The sort of mistake that Shelley made as to the extent of his own
genius and powers, which led him deviously at first, but lastly
into the direct track that enabled him fully to develop them, is a
curious instance of his modesty of feeling, and of the methods which
the human mind uses at once to deceive itself, and yet, in its very
delusion, to make its way out of error into the path which Nature
has marked out as its right one.

He often incited me to attempt the writing a tragedy:
he conceived that I possessed some dramatic talent, and he was
always most earnest and energetic in his exhortations that I should
cultivate any talent I possessed, to the utmost.

I entertained a truer estimate of my powers; and above all (though
at that time not exactly aware of the fact) I was far too young to have
any chance of succeeding, even moderately, in a species of composition
that requires a greater scope of experience in, and sympathy with,
human passion than could then have fallen to my lot,--or than any
perhaps, except Shelley, ever possessed, even at the age of twenty-six,
at which he wrote The Cenci.

On the other hand, Shelley most erroneously conceived himself to be
destitute of this talent.

He believed that one of the first requisites was the capacity of
forming and following-up a story or plot.

He fancied himself to he defective in this portion of imagination: it was
that which gave him least pleasure in the writings of others,
though he laid great store by it as the proper framework to support
the sublimest efforts of poetry.

He asserted that he was too metaphysical and abstract, too fond of
the theoretical and the ideal, to succeed as a tragedian.

It perhaps is not strange that I shared this opinion with himself; for he
had hitherto shown no inclination for, nor given any specimen of
his powers in framing and supporting the interest of a story, either
in prose or verse.

Once or twice, when he attempted such, he had speedily thrown it
aside, as being even disagreeable to him as an occupation.

The subject he had suggested for a tragedy was Charles I: and he had written
to me: 'Remember, remember Charles I.

I have been already imagining how you would conduct some scenes.

The second volume of "St.
Leon" begins with this proud and true sentiment: "There is nothing which
the human mind can conceive which it may not execute."

Shakespeare was only a human being.' These words were written in 1818,
while we were in Lombardy, when he little thought how soon a work
of his own would prove a proud comment on the passage he quoted.

When in Rome, in 1819, a friend put into our hands the old manuscript
account of the story of the Cenci. We visited the Colonna and Doria
palaces, where the portraits of Beatrice were to be found; and her
beauty cast the reflection of its own grace over her appalling story.
Shelley's imagination became strongly excited, and he urged the subject
to me as one fitted for a tragedy. More than ever I felt my
incompetence; but I entreated him to write it instead; and he began, and
proceeded swiftly, urged on by intense sympathy with the sufferings
of the human beings whose passions, so long cold in the tomb, he
revived, and gifted with poetic language.

This tragedy is the only one of his works that he communicated to me
during its progress. We talked over the arrangement of the scenes
together.

I speedily saw the great mistake we had made, and triumphed in the
discovery of the new talent brought to light from that mine of wealth
(never, alas, through his untimely death, worked to its depths)--his
richly gifted mind.

We suffered a severe affliction in Rome by the loss of our eldest child,
who was of such beauty and promise as to cause him deservedly to
be the idol of our hearts.

We left the capital of the world, anxious for a time to escape a spot
associated too intimately with his presence and loss.

(Such feelings haunted him when, in "The Cenci", he makes Beatrice
speak to Cardinal Camillo of
'that fair blue-eyed child Who was the lodestar of your life:'--and
say-- All see, since his most swift and piteous death, That day and
night, and heaven and earth, and time, And all the things hoped for
or done therein Are changed to you, through your exceeding grief.')

Some friends of ours were residing in the neighbourhood of Leghorn, and
we took a small house, Villa Valsovano, about half-way between the
town and Monte Nero, where we remained during the summer.

Our villa was situated in the midst of a podere; the peasants sang
as they worked beneath our windows, during the heats of a very hot
season, and in the evening the water-wheel creaked as the process
of irrigation went on, and the fireflies flashed from among the
myrtle hedges:
Nature was bright, sunshiny, and cheerful, or diversified by storms
of a majestic terror, such as we had never before witnessed.

At the top of the house there was a sort of terrace. There is often such
in Italy, generally roofed: this one was very small, yet not only roofed
but glazed. This Shelley made his study; it looked out on a wide prospect
of fertile country, and commanded a view of the near sea. The storms
that sometimes varied our day showed themselves most picturesquely
as they were driven across the ocean; sometimes the dark lurid
clouds dipped towards the waves, and became water-spouts that churned
up the waters beneath, as they were chased onward and scattered by
the tempest.

At other times the dazzling sunlight and heat made it almost
intolerable to every other; but Shelley basked in both, and his
health and spirits revived under their influence.

In this airy cell he wrote the principal part of "The Cenci".

He was making a study of Calderon at the time, reading his best tragedies
with an accomplished lady living near us, to whom his letter from Leghorn
was addressed during the following year.

He admired Calderon, both for his poetry and his dramatic genius; but
it shows his judgement and originality that, though greatly struck by
his first acquaintance with the Spanish poet, none of his peculiarities
crept into the composition of "The Cenci"; and there is no trace
of his new studies, except in that passage to which he himself
alludes as suggested by one in "El Purgatorio de San Patricio".

Shelley wished "The Cenci" to be acted.

He was not a playgoer, being of such fastidious taste that he was
easily disgusted by the bad filling-up of the inferior parts.

While preparing for our departure from England, however, he saw Miss
O'Neil several times.

She was then in the zenith of her glory; and Shelley was deeply
moved by her impersonation of several parts, and by the graceful
sweetness, the intense pathos, the sublime vehemence of passion she
displayed.

She was often in his thoughts as he wrote: and, when he had finished,
he became anxious that his tragedy should be acted, and receive
the advantage of having this accomplished actress to fill the part
of the heroine. With this view he wrote the following letter to a
friend in London:

'The object of the present letter us to ask a favour of you. I have
written a tragedy on a story well known in Italy, and, in my conception,
eminently dramatic. I have taken some pains to make my play fit for
representation, and those who have already seen it judge favourably. It
is written without any of the peculiar feelings and opinions which
characterize my other compositions; I have attended simply to the impartial
development of such characters as it is probable the persons represented
really were, together with the greatest degree of popular effect to be
produced by such a development. I send you a translation of the Italian
manuscript on which my play is founded; the chief circumstance of which
I have touched very delicately; for my principal doubt as to whether
it would succeed as an acting play hangs entirely on the question
as to whether any such a thing as incest in this shape, however
treated, would be admitted on the stage.

I think, however, it will form no objection; considering, first, that
the facts are matter of history, and, secondly, the peculiar delicacy
with which I have treated it. (In speaking of his mode of treating
this main incident, Shelley said that it might be remarked that, in
the course of the play, he had never mentioned expressly Cenci's worst
crime. Every one knew what it must be, but it was never imaged in
words--the nearest allusion to it being that portion of Cenci's curse
beginning--
"That, if she have a child," etc.)
'I am exceedingly interested in the question of whether this attempt of
mine will succeed or not.

I am strongly inclined to the affirmative at present; founding my hopes
on this--that, as a composition, it is certainly not inferior to
any of the modern plays that have been acted, with the exception
of "Remorse"; that the interest of the plot is incredibly greater
and more real; and that there is nothing beyond what the multitude
are contented to believe that they can understand, either in imagery,
opinion, or sentiment.

I wish to preserve a complete incognito, and can trust to you that,
whatever else you do, you will at least favour me on this point.

Indeed, this is essential, deeply essential, to its success.

After it had been acted, and successfully (could I hope for such a thing),
I would own it if I pleased, and use the celebrity it might acquire
to my own purposes.

'What I want you to do is to procure for me its presentation at
Covent Garden.

The principal character, Beatrice, is precisely fitted for Miss
O'Neil, and it might even seem to have been written for her (God
forbid that I should see her play it--it would tear my nerves to
pieces); and in all respects it is fitted only for Covent Garden.

The chief male character I confess I should be very unwilling that
any one but Kean should play.

That is impossible, and I must be contented with an inferior actor.'

The play was accordingly sent to Mr. Harris. He pronounced the subject
to be so objectionable that he could not even submit the part
to Miss O'Neil for perusal, but expressed his desire that the
author would write a tragedy on some other subject, which he would
gladly accept.

Shelley printed a small edition at Leghorn, to ensure its correctness;
as he was much annoyed by the many mistakes that crept into his
text when distance prevented him from correcting the press.

Universal approbation soon stamped "The Cenci" as the best tragedy
of modern times. Writing concerning it, Shelley said: 'I have been cautious
to avoid the introducing faults of youthful composition; diffuseness,
a profusion of inapplicable imagery, vagueness, generality, and,
as Hamlet says, "words, words".' There is nothing that is not purely
dramatic throughout; and the character of Beatrice, proceeding,
from vehement struggle, to horror, to deadly resolution, and lastly
to the elevated dignity of calm suffering, joined to passionate
tenderness and pathos, is touched with hues so vivid and so beautiful
that the poet seems to have read intimately the secrets of the noble
heart imaged in the lovely countenance of the unfortunate girl.

The Fifth Act is a masterpiece. It is the finest thing he ever wrote,
and may claim proud comparison not only with any contemporary, but
preceding, poet.

The varying feelings of Beatrice are expressed with passionate,
heart-reaching eloquence.

Every character has a voice that echoes truth in its tones. It is
curious, to one acquainted with the written story, to mark the success
with which the poet has inwoven the real incidents of the tragedy
into his scenes, and yet, through the power of poetry, has obliterated
all that would otherwise have shown too harsh or too hideous in the
picture.

His success was a double triumph; and often after he was earnestly entreated
to write again in a style that commanded popular favour, while it
was not less instinct with truth and genius.

But the bent of his mind went the other way; and, even when employed
on subjects whose interest depended on character and incident, he
would start off in another direction, and leave the delineations
of human passion, which he could depict in so able a manner, for
fantastic creations of his fancy, or the expression of those opinions
and sentiments, with regard to human nature and its destiny, a
desire to diffuse which was the master passion of his soul.
*** 

THE MASK OF ANARCHY.

WRITTEN ON THE OCCASION OF THE MASSACRE AT MANCHESTER.

[Composed at the Villa Valsovano near Leghorn--or possibly later, during
Shelley's sojourn at Florence--in the autumn of 1819, shortly
after the Peterloo riot at Manchester, August 16; edited with
Preface by Leigh Hunt, and published under the poet's name by Edward
Moxon, 1832 (Bradbury & Evans, printers).

Two manuscripts are extant: a transcript by Mrs. Shelley with Shelley's
autograph corrections, known as the 'Hunt manuscript'; and an earlier
draft, not quite complete, in the poet's handwriting, presented
by Mrs.

Shelley to (Sir) John Bowring in 1826, and now in the possession of Mr.
Thomas J. Wise (the 'Wise manuscript'). Mrs. Shelley's copy was
sent to Leigh Hunt in 1819 with view to its publication in "The Examiner";
hence the name 'Hunt manuscript.' A facsimile of the Wise manuscript
was published by the Shelley Society in 1887. Sources of the
text are (1) the Hunt manuscript; (2) the Wise manuscript; (3) the
editio princeps, editor Leigh Hunt, 1832; (4) Mrs. Shelley's two editions
("Poetical Works") of 1839. Of the two manuscripts Mrs. Shelley's
transcript is the later and more authoritative.]
1.
As I lay asleep in Italy There came a voice from over the Sea, And
with great power it forth led me To walk in the visions of Poesy.

2.
High-backed chairs of gilt
leather were ranged against the walls, and ebony cabinets inlaid with
ivory were set between them at intervals, supporting rare specimens of
glass and earthenware. Opposite the fireplace, stood a large clock,
curiously painted and decorated with emblematical devices, with the
signs of the zodiac, and provided with movable figures to strike the
hours on a bell; while from the centre of the roof hung a great
chandelier of stag's horn.

Lady Assheton did not tarry long within the entrance hall, for such it
was, but conducted her guests through an arched doorway on the right
into the long gallery. One hundred and fifty feet in length, and
proportionately wide and lofty, this vast chamber had undergone little
change since its original construction by the old owners of the Abbey.
Panelled and floored with lustrous oak, and hung in some parts with
antique tapestry, representing scriptural subjects, one side was pierced
with lofty pointed windows, looking out upon the garden, while the
southern extremity boasted a magnificent window, with heavy stone
mullions, though of more recent workmanship than the framework,
commanding Whalley Nab and the river. The furniture of the apartment was
grand but gloomy, and consisted of antique chairs and tables belonging
to the Abbey. Some curious ecclesiastical sculptures, wood carvings, and
saintly images, were placed at intervals near the walls, and on the
upper panels were hung a row of family portraits.

Quitting the rest of the company, and proceeding to the southern
window, Dorothy invited Alizon and her brother to place themselves
beside her on the cushioned seats of the deep embrasure. Little
conversation, however, ensued; Alizon's heart being too full for
utterance, and recent occurrences engrossing Dorothy's thoughts, to the
exclusion of every thing else. Having made one or two unsuccessful
efforts to engage them in talk, Richard likewise lapsed into silence,
and gazed out on the lovely scenery before him. The evening has been
described as beautiful; and the swift Calder, as it hurried by, was
tinged with rays of the declining sun, whilst the woody heights of
Whalley Nab were steeped in the same rosy light. But the view failed to
interest Richard in his present mood, and after a brief survey, he stole
a look at Alizon, and was surprised to find her in tears.

"What saddening thoughts cross you, fair girl?" he inquired, with deep
interest.

"I can hardly account for my sudden despondency," she replied; "but I
have heard that great happiness is the precursor of dejection, and the
saying I suppose must be true, for I have been happier to-day than I
ever was before in my life. But the feeling of sadness is now past," she
added, smiling.

"I am glad of it," said Richard. "May I not know what has occurred to
you?"

"Not at present," interposed Dorothy; "but I am sure you will be pleased
when you are made acquainted with the circumstance. I would tell you now
if I might."

"May I guess?" said Richard.

"I don't know," rejoined Dorothy, who was dying to tell him. "May he?"

"Oh no, no!" cried Alizon.

"You are very perverse," said Richard, with a look of disappointment.
"There can be no harm in guessing; and you can please yourself as to
giving an answer. I fancy, then, that Alizon has made some discovery."

Dorothy nodded.

"Relative to her parentage?" pursued Richard.

Another nod.

"She has found out she is not Elizabeth Device's daughter?" said
Richard.

"Some witch must have told you this," exclaimed Dorothy.

"Have I indeed guessed rightly?" cried Richard, with an eagerness that
startled his sister. "Do not keep me in suspense. Speak plainly."

"How am I to answer him, Alizon?" said Dorothy.

"Nay, do not appeal to me, dear young lady," she answered, blushing.

"I have gone too far to retreat," rejoined Dorothy, "and therefore,
despite Mistress Nutter's interdiction, the truth shall out. You have
guessed shrewdly, Richard. A discovery _has_ been made--a very great
discovery. Alizon is not the daughter of Elizabeth Device."

"The intelligence delights me, though it scarcely surprises me," cried
Richard, gazing with heartfelt pleasure at the blushing girl; "for I was
sure of the fact from the first. Nothing so good and charming as Alizon
could spring from so foul a source. How and by what means you have
derived this information, as well as whose daughter you are, I shall
wait patiently to learn. Enough for me you are not the sister of James
Device--enough you are not the grandchild of Mother Demdike."

"You know all I know, in knowing thus much," replied Alizon, timidly.
"And secrecy has been enjoined by Mistress Nutter, in order that the
rest may be found out. But oh! should the hopes I have--perhaps too
hastily--indulged, prove fallacious--"

"They cannot be fallacious, Alizon," interrupted Richard, eagerly. "On
that score rest easy. Your connexion with that wretched family is for
ever broken. But I can see the necessity of caution, and shall observe
it. And so Mistress Nutter takes an interest in you?"

"The strongest," replied Dorothy; "but see! she comes this way."

But we must now go back for a short space.

Thou imagest my life. Thy darksome stillness, _505 Thy dazzling waves,
thy loud and hollow gulfs, Thy searchless fountain, and invisible course
Have each their type in me; and the wide sky.
And measureless ocean may declare as soon What oozy cavern or what wandering
cloud _510 Contains thy waters, as the universe Tell where these living
thoughts reside, when stretched Upon thy flowers my bloodless limbs shall
waste I' the passing wind!'

Beside the grassy shore Of the small stream he went; he did impress
_515 On the green moss his tremulous step, that caught Strong
shuddering from his burning limbs. As one Roused by some joyous madness
from the couch Of fever, he did move; yet, not like him, Forgetful
of the grave, where, when the flame _520 Of his frail exultation
shall be spent, He must descend.

With rapid steps he went Beneath the shade of trees, beside the
flow Of the wild babbling rivulet; and now The forest's solemn
canopies were changed _525 For the uniform and lightsome evening sky.

Grey rocks did peep from the spare moss, and stemmed The struggling brook;
tall spires of windlestrae Threw their thin shadows down the rugged
slope, And nought but gnarled roots of ancient pines _530 Branchless
and blasted, clenched with grasping roots The unwilling soil.

A gradual change was here, Yet ghastly. For, as fast years flow away,
The smooth brow gathers, and the hair grows thin And white, and
where irradiate dewy eyes _535 Had shone, gleam stony orbs:--so
from his steps Bright flowers departed, and the beautiful shade Of
the green groves, with all their odorous winds And musical motions.

Calm, he still pursued The stream, that with a larger volume now _540
Rolled through the labyrinthine dell; and there Fretted a path through
its descending curves With its wintry speed.

On every side now rose Rocks, which, in unimaginable forms, Lifted their
black and barren pinnacles _545 In the light of evening, and its precipice
Obscuring the ravine, disclosed above, Mid toppling stones, black gulfs
and yawning caves, Whose windings gave ten thousand various tongues
To the loud stream.

Lo! where the pass expands _550 Its stony jaws, the abrupt mountain
breaks, And seems, with its accumulated crags, To overhang the world: for
wide expand Beneath the wan stars and descending moon Islanded
seas, blue mountains, mighty streams, _555 Dim tracts and vast,
robed in the lustrous gloom Of leaden-coloured even, and fiery hills
Mingling their flames with twilight, on the verge Of the remote
horizon.

The near scene, In naked and severe simplicity, _560 Made contrast
with the universe. A pine, Rock-rooted, stretched athwart the vacancy
Its swinging boughs, to each inconstant blast Yielding one only
response, at each pause In most familiar cadence, with the howl
_565 The thunder and the hiss of homeless streams Mingling its
solemn song, whilst the broad river Foaming and hurrying o'er its
rugged path, Fell into that immeasurable void Scattering its waters
to the passing winds. _570
Yet the grey precipice and solemn pine And torrent were not all;--one
silent nook Was there.

Even on the edge of that vast mountain, Upheld by knotty roots and
fallen rocks, It overlooked in its serenity _575 The dark earth,
and the bending vault of stars.

It was a tranquil spot, that seemed to smile Even in the lap of
horror. Ivy clasped The fissured stones with its entwining arms,
And did embower with leaves for ever green, _580 And berries dark,
the smooth and even space Of its inviolated floor, and here The
children of the autumnal whirlwind bore, In wanton sport, those
bright leaves, whose decay, Red, yellow, or ethereally pale, _585
Rivals the pride of summer.

'Tis the haunt Of every gentle wind, whose breath can teach The
wilds to love tranquillity.

One step, One human step alone, has ever broken The stillness of its
solitude:--one voice _590 Alone inspired its echoes;--even that
voice Which hither came, floating among the winds, And led the
loveliest among human forms To make their wild haunts the depository
Of all the grace and beauty that endued _595 Its motions, render
up its majesty, Scatter its music on the unfeeling storm, And to
the damp leaves and blue cavern mould, Nurses of rainbow flowers
and branching moss, Commit the colours of that varying cheek, _600
That snowy breast, those dark and drooping eyes.

The dim and horned moon hung low, and poured A sea of lustre on the
horizon's verge That overflowed its mountains.

Yellow mist Filled the unbounded atmosphere, and drank _605
Wan moonlight even to fulness; not a star Shone, not a sound was
heard; the very winds, Danger's grim playmates, on that precipice
Slept, clasped in his embrace.

--O, storm of death!
Whose sightless speed divides this sullen night: 610 And thou, colossal
Skeleton, that, still Guiding its irresistible career In thy
devastating omnipotence, Art king of this frail world, from the red
field Of slaughter, from the reeking hospital, _615 The patriot's
sacred couch, the snowy bed Of innocence, the scaffold and the
throne, A mighty voice invokes thee.

Ruin calls His brother Death. A rare and regal prey He hath prepared,
prowling around the world; _620 Glutted with which thou mayst repose,
and men Go to their graves like flowers or creeping worms, Nor ever
more offer at thy dark shrine The unheeded tribute of a broken heart.

When on the threshold of the green recess _625 The wanderer's footsteps
fell, he knew that death Was on him.

Yet a little, ere it fled, Did he resign his high and holy soul To
images of the majestic past, That paused within his passive being
now, _630 Like winds that bear sweet music, when they breathe Through
some dim latticed chamber.

He did place His pale lean hand upon the rugged trunk Of the old pine.
Upon an ivied stone Reclined his languid head, his limbs did rest,
_635 Diffused and motionless, on the smooth brink Of that obscurest
chasm;--and thus he lay, Surrendering to their final impulses The
hovering powers of life.

Hope and despair, The torturers, slept; no mortal pain or fear _640
Marred his repose; the influxes of sense, And his own being unalloyed
by pain, Yet feebler and more feeble, calmly fed The stream of
thought, till he lay breathing there At peace, and faintly smiling:--his
last sight _645 Was the great moon, which o'er the western line Of
the wide world her mighty horn suspended, With whose dun beams
inwoven darkness seemed To mingle.

Now upon the jagged hills It rests; and still as the divided frame
_650 Of the vast meteor sunk, the Poet's blood, That ever beat in
mystic sympathy With nature's ebb and flow, grew feebler still:
And when two lessening points of light alone Gleamed through the
darkness, the alternate gasp _655 Of his faint respiration scarce
did stir The stagnate night:--till the minutest ray Was quenched,
the pulse yet lingered in his heart.

It paused--it fluttered. But when heaven remained Utterly black, the murky
shades involved _660 An image, silent, cold, and motionless, As their
own voiceless earth and vacant air.
Even as a vapour fed with golden beams That ministered on sunlight,
ere the west Eclipses it, was now that wondrous frame-- _665 No
sense, no motion, no divinity-- A fragile lute, on whose harmonious
strings The breath of heaven did wander--a bright stream Once fed
with many-voiced waves--a dream Of youth, which night and time have
quenched for ever, _670 Still, dark, and dry, and unremembered now.

Oh, for Medea's wondrous alchemy, Which wheresoe'er it fell made
the earth gleam With bright flowers, and the wintry boughs exhale
From vernal blooms fresh fragrance!

O, that God, _675 Profuse of poisons, would concede the chalice Which
but one living man has drained, who now, Vessel of deathless wrath, a
slave that feels No proud exemption in the blighting curse He bears,
over the world wanders for ever, _680 Lone as incarnate death!

O, that the dream Of dark magician in his visioned cave, Raking the
cinders of a crucible For life and power, even when his feeble
hand Shakes in its last decay, were the true law _685 Of this so
lovely world!

But thou art fled, Like some frail exhalation; which the dawn Robes
in its golden beams,--ah!

thou hast fled!
The brave, the gentle and the beautiful, The child of grace and
genius.

Heartless things _690 Are done and said i' the world, and many worms
And beasts and men live on, and mighty Earth From sea and mountain,
city and wilderness, In vesper low or joyous orison, Lifts still
its solemn voice:--but thou art fled-- _695 Thou canst no longer
know or love the shapes Of this phantasmal scene, who have to thee
Been purest ministers, who are, alas!

Now thou art not. Upon those pallid lips So sweet even in their silence,
on those eyes _700 That image sleep in death, upon that form Yet
safe from the worm's outrage, let no tear Be shed--not even in
thought.

Nor, when those hues Are gone, and those divinest lineaments, Worn
by the senseless wind, shall live alone _705 In the frail pauses
of this simple strain, Let not high verse, mourning the memory Of
that which is no more, or painting's woe Or sculpture, speak in
feeble imagery Their own cold powers.

Art and eloquence, _710 And all the shows o' the world are frail and
vain To weep a loss that turns their lights to shade.
It is a woe "too deep for tears," when all Is reft at once, when
some surpassing Spirit, Whose light adorned the world around it,
leaves _715 Those who remain behind, not sobs or groans, The
passionate tumult of a clinging hope; But pale despair and cold
tranquillity, Nature's vast frame, the web of human things, Birth
and the grave, that are not as they were. _720 

Notes:
_219 Conduct edition 1816.

See "Editor's Notes".

_530 roots edition 1816: query stumps or trunks. See "Editor's
Notes".

NOTE ON ALASTOR, BY MRS. SHELLEY.

"Alastor" is written in a very different tone from "Queen Mab".

In the latter, Shelley poured out all the cherished speculations of his
youth--all the irrepressible emotions of sympathy, censure, and
hope, to which the present suffering, and what he considers the
proper destiny of his fellow-creatures, gave birth.

"Alastor", on the contrary, contains an individual interest only.

A very few years, with their attendant events, had checked the
ardour of Shelley's hopes, though he still thought them well-grounded,
and that to advance their fulfilment was the noblest task man could
achieve.

This is neither the time nor place to speak of the misfortunes that
chequered his life.

It will be sufficient to say that, in all he did, he at the time of doing
it believed himself justified to his own conscience; while the various
ills of poverty and loss of friends brought home to him the sad
realities of life.

Physical suffering had also considerable influence in causing him
to turn his eyes inward; inclining him rather to brood over the
thoughts and emotions of his own soul than to glance abroad, and
to make, as in "Queen Mab", the whole universe the object and subject
of his song.

In the Spring of 1815, an eminent physician pronounced that he was dying
rapidly of a consumption; abscesses were formed on his lungs, and
he suffered acute spasms.

Suddenly a complete change took place; and though through life he was
a martyr to pain and debility, every symptom of pulmonary disease
vanished.

His nerves, which nature had formed sensitive to an unexampled
degree, were rendered still more susceptible by the state of his
health.

As soon as the peace of 1814 had opened the Continent, he went abroad.

He visited some of the more magnificent scenes of Switzerland, and
returned to England from Lucerne, by the Reuss and the Rhine. This
river-navigation enchanted him. In his favourite poem of "Thalaba",
his imagination had been excited by a description of such a voyage.

In the summer of 1815, after a tour along the southern coast of Devonshire
and a visit to Clifton, he rented a house on Bishopgate Heath, on
the borders of Windsor Forest, where he enjoyed several months of
comparative health and tranquil happiness.

The later summer months were warm and dry.

Accompanied by a few friends, he visited the source of the Thames,
making a voyage in a wherry from Windsor to Crichlade.

His beautiful stanzas in the churchyard of Lechlade were written
on that occasion.

"Alastor" was composed on his return.

He spent his days under the oak-shades of Windsor Great Park; and the
magnificent woodland was a fitting study to inspire the various
descriptions of forest scenery we find in the poem.

None of Shelley's poems is more characteristic than this.

The solemn spirit that reigns throughout, the worship of the majesty
of nature, the broodings of a poet's heart in solitude--the mingling
of the exulting joy which the various aspects of the visible universe
inspires with the sad and struggling pangs which human passion
imparts--give a touching interest to the whole.

The death which he had often contemplated during the last months
as certain and near he here represented in such colours as had, in
his lonely musings, soothed his soul to peace.

The versification sustains the solemn spirit which breathes
throughout: it is peculiarly melodious.

The poem ought rather to be considered didactic than narrative: it
was the outpouring of his own emotions, embodied in the purest form
he could conceive, painted in the ideal hues which his brilliant
imagination inspired, and softened by the recent anticipation of
death.

*** 

THE REVOLT OF ISLAM.

A POEM IN TWELVE CANTOS.

Osais de Broton ethnos aglaiais aptomestha perainei pros eschaton ploon
nausi d oute pezos ion an eurois es Uperboreon agona thaumatan
odon.

Pind. Pyth. x.

[Composed in the neighbourhood of Bisham Wood, near Great Marlow, Bucks,
1817 (April-September 23); printed, with title (dated 1818), "Laon and
Cythna; or, The Revolution of the Golden City: A Vision of the
Nineteenth Century", October, November, 1817, but suppressed, pending
revision, by the publishers, C & J. Ollier. (A few copies had got
out, but these were recalled, and some recovered.) Published, with
a fresh title-page and twenty-seven cancel-leaves, as "The Revolt
of Islam", January 10, 1818.

Sources of the text are (1) "Laon and Cythna", 1818; (2) "The Revolt of
Islam", 1818; (3) "Poetical Works", 1839, editions 1st and 2nd--both
edited by Mrs. Shelley.

A copy, with several pages missing, of the "Preface", the Dedication",
and "Canto 1" of "Laon and Cythna" is amongst the Shelley manuscripts
at the Bodleian.

For a full collation of this manuscript see Mr.

C.D.
Locock's "Examination of the Shelley Manuscripts at the Bodleian Library".
Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1903.

Two manuscript fragments from the Hunt papers are also extant: one
(twenty-four lines) in the possession of Mr.

W.M. Rossetti, another (9 23 9 to 29 6) in that of Mr. H. Buxton Forman,
C.B.

See "The Shelley Library", pages 83-86, for an account of the
copy of "Laon" upon which Shelley worked in revising for publication.]

AUTHOR'S PREFACE.

The Poem which I now present to the world is an attempt from which I
scarcely dare to expect success, and in which a writer of established
fame might fail without disgrace.

It is an experiment on the temper of the public mind, as to how
far a thirst for a happier condition of moral and political society
survives, among the enlightened and refined, the tempests which
have shaken the age in which we live.

I have sought to enlist the harmony of metrical language, the ethereal
combinations of the fancy, the rapid and subtle transitions of
human passion, all those elements which essentially compose a Poem,
in the cause of a liberal and comprehensive morality; and in the
view of kindling within the bosoms of my readers a virtuous enthusiasm
for those doctrines of liberty and justice, that faith and hope in
something good, which neither violence nor misrepresentation nor
prejudice can ever totally extinguish among mankind.

For this purpose I have chosen a story of human passion in its most
universal character, diversified with moving and romantic adventures,
and appealing, in contempt of all artificial opinions or institutions,
to the common sympathies of every human breast.

I have made no attempt to recommend the motives which I would substitute
for those at present governing mankind, by methodical and systematic
argument.

I would only awaken the feelings, so that the reader should see the
beauty of true virtue, and be incited to those inquiries which have
led to my moral and political creed, and that of some of the sublimest
intellects in the world.

The Poem therefore (with the exception of the first canto, which is purely
introductory) is narrative, not didactic.

It is a succession of pictures illustrating the growth and progress
of individual mind aspiring after excellence, and devoted to the
love of mankind; its influence in refining and making pure the most
daring and uncommon impulses of the imagination, the understanding,
and the senses; its impatience at 'all the oppressions which are
done under the sun;' its tendency to awaken public hope, and to
enlighten and improve mankind; the rapid effects of the application
of that tendency; the awakening of an immense nation from their
slavery and degradation to a true sense of moral dignity and freedom;
the bloodless dethronement of their oppressors, and the unveiling
of the religious frauds by which they had been deluded into submission;
the tranquillity of successful patriotism, and the universal
toleration and benevolence of true philanthropy; the treachery and
barbarity of hired soldiers; vice not the object of punishment and
hatred, but kindness and pity; the faithlessness of tyrants; the
confederacy of the Rulers of the World and the restoration of the
expelled Dynasty by foreign arms; the massacre and extermination
of the Patriots, and the victory of established power; the consequences
of legitimate despotism,--civil war, famine, plague, superstition,
and an utter extinction of the domestic affections; the judicial
murder of the advocates of Liberty; the temporary triumph of
oppression, that secure earnest of its final and inevitable fall;
the transient nature of ignorance and error and the eternity of
genius and virtue.

Such is the series of delineations of which the Poem consists. And, if
the lofty passions with which it has been my scope to distinguish this
story shall not excite in the reader a generous impulse, an ardent
thirst for excellence, an interest profound and strong such as
belongs to no meaner desires, let not the failure be imputed to a
natural unfitness for human sympathy in these sublime and animating
themes.

It is the business of the Poet to communicate to others the pleasure
and the enthusiasm arising out of those images and feelings in the
vivid presence of which within his own mind consists at once his
inspiration and his reward.

The panic which, like an epidemic transport, seized upon all classes
of men during the excesses consequent upon the French Revolution,
is gradually giving place to sanity.

It has ceased to be believed that whole generations of mankind ought
to consign themselves to a hopeless inheritance of ignorance and
misery, because a nation of men who had been dupes and slaves for
centuries were incapable of conducting themselves with the wisdom
and tranquillity of freemen so soon as some of their fetters were
partially loosened.

That their conduct could not have been marked by any other characters
than ferocity and thoughtlessness is the historical fact from which
liberty derives all its recommendations, and falsehood the worst
features of its deformity.

There is a reflux in the tide of human things which bears the shipwrecked
hopes of men into a secure haven after the storms are past.

Methinks, those who now live have survived an age of despair.

The French Revolution may be considered as one of those manifestations
of a general state of feeling among civilised mankind produced by
a defect of correspondence between the knowledge existing in society
and the improvement or gradual abolition of political institutions.

The year 1788 may be assumed as the epoch of one of the most important
crises produced by this feeling.

The sympathies connected with that event extended to every bosom. The
most generous and amiable natures were those which participated
the most extensively in these sympathies.

But such a degree of unmingled good was expected as it was impossible
to realise.

If the Revolution had been in every respect prosperous, then misrule
and superstition would lose half their claims to our abhorrence,
as fetters which the captive can unlock with the slightest motion
of his fingers, and which do not eat with poisonous rust into the
soul.

The revulsion occasioned by the atrocities of the demagogues, and
the re-establishment of successive tyrannies in France, was terrible,
and felt in the remotest corner of the civilised world. Could they
listen to the plea of reason who had groaned under the calamities of a
social state according to the provisions of which one man riots in
luxury whilst another famishes for want of bread?

Can he who the day before was a trampled slave suddenly become
liberal-minded, forbearing, and independent?

This is the consequence of the habits of a state of society to be produced
by resolute perseverance and indefatigable hope, and long-suffering
and long-believing courage, and the systematic efforts of generations
of men of intellect and virtue.

Such is the lesson which experience teaches now.

But, on the first reverses of hope in the progress of French liberty,
the sanguine eagerness for good overleaped the solution of these questions,
and for a time extinguished itself in the unexpectedness of their
result.

Thus, many of the most ardent and tender-hearted of the worshippers
of public good have been morally ruined by what a partial glimpse
of the events they deplored appeared to show as the melancholy
desolation of all their cherished hopes.

Hence gloom and misanthropy have become the characteristics of the age
in which we live, the solace of a disappointment that unconsciously
finds relief only in the wilful exaggeration of its own despair. This
influence has tainted the literature of the age with the hopelessness
of the minds from which it flows.

Metaphysics (I ought to except sir W.

Drummond's "Academical Questions"; a volume of very acute and
powerful metaphysical criticism.), and inquiries into moral and
political science, have become little else than vain attempts to
revive exploded superstitions, or sophisms like those of Mr.

Malthus (It is remarkable, as a symptom of the revival of public
hope, that Mr.

Malthus has assigned, in the later editions of his work, an indefinite
dominion to moral restraint over the principle of population.

This concession answers all the inferences from his doctrine unfavourable
to human improvement, and reduces the "Essay on Population" to a
commentary illustrative of the unanswerableness of "Political
Justice".), calculated to lull the oppressors of mankind into a
security of everlasting triumph.

Our works of fiction and poetry have been overshadowed by the same
infectious gloom.

But mankind appear to me to be emerging from their trance.

I am aware, methinks, of a slow, gradual, silent change. In that
belief I have composed the following Poem.

I do not presume to enter into competition with our greatest
contemporary Poets.

Yet I am unwilling to tread in the footsteps of any who have preceded
me.

I have sought to avoid the imitation of any style of language or versification
peculiar to the original minds of which it is the character; designing
that, even if what I have produced be worthless, it should still
be properly my own.
None thought of my husband's agency in the dark affair
except myself; but knowing he had held many secret conferences about the
time with Mother Chattox, I more than suspected him. The sick man died;
and from that hour Richard Nutter knew no rest. Ever on horseback, or
fiercely carousing, he sought in vain to stifle remorse. Visions scared
him by night, and vague fears pursued him by day. He would start at
shadows, and talk wildly. To me his whole demeanour was altered; and he
strove by every means in his power to win my love. But he could not give
me back the treasure he had taken. He could not bring to life my
murdered babe. Like his victim, he fell ill on a sudden, and of a
strange and terrible sickness. I saw he could not recover, and therefore
tended him carefully. He died; and I shed no tear."

"Alas!" exclaimed Alizon, "though guilty, I cannot but compassionate
him."

"You are right to do so, Alizon," said Mistress Nutter, rising, while
the young girl rose too; "for he was your father."

"My father!" she exclaimed, in amazement. "Then you are my mother?"

"I am--I am," replied Mistress Nutter, straining her to her bosom. "Oh,
my child!--my dear child!" she cried. "The voice of nature from the
first pleaded eloquently in your behalf, and I should have been deaf to
all impulses of affection if I had not listened to the call. I now trace
in every feature the lineaments of the babe I thought lost for ever. All
is clear to me. The exclamation of Elizabeth Device, which, like my
ruthless husband, I looked upon as an artifice to save the infant's
life, I now find to be the truth. Her child perished instead of mine.
.

(3) NO HOARY PRIESTS AFTER THAT PATRIARCH [L. 245].

The Greek Patriarch, after haying been compelled to fulminate an
anathema against the insurgents, was put to death by the Turks.

Fortunately the Greeks have been taught that they cannot buy
security by degradation, and the Turks, though equally cruel, are less
cunning than the smooth-faced tyrants of Europe. As to the anathema, his
Holiness might as well have thrown his mitre at Mount Athos for any
effect that it produced.

The chiefs of the Greeks are almost all men of comprehension and
enlightened views on religion and politics.

(4) THE FREEDMAN OF A WESTERN POET-CHIEF [L. 563].

A Greek who had been Lord Byron's servant commands the insurgents
in Attica.

This Greek, Lord Byron informs me, though a poet and an enthusiastic
patriot, gave him rather the idea of a timid and unenterprising
person.

It appears that circumstances make men what they are, and that
we all contain the germ of a degree of degradation or of greatness whose
connection with our character is determined by events.

(5) THE GREEKS EXPECT A SAVIOUR FROM THE WEST [L. 598].

It is reported that this Messiah had arrived at a seaport near
Lacedaemon in an American brig.

The association of names and ideas is irresistibly ludicrous, but the
prevalence of such a rumour strongly marks the state of popular
enthusiasm in Greece.

(6) THE SOUND AS OF THE ASSAULT OF AN IMPERIAL CITY [LL. 814-15].

For the vision of Mahmud of the taking of Constantinople in 1453, see
Gibbon's "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire", volume 12
page 223.

The manner of the invocation of the spirit of Mahomet the Second will
be censured as over subtle.

I could easily have made the Jew a regular conjuror, and the Phantom
an ordinary ghost.

I have preferred to represent the Jew as disclaiming all pretension, or
even belief, in supernatural agency, and as tempting Mahmud to that
state of mind in which ideas may be supposed to assume the force
of sensations through the confusion of thought with the objects of
thought, and the excess of passion animating the creations of
imagination.

It is a sort of natural magic, susceptible of being exercised in a
degree by any one who should have made himself master of the
secret associations of another's thoughts.

(7) THE CHORUS [L. 1060].

The final chorus is indistinct and obscure, as the event of the
living drama whose arrival it foretells.

Prophecies of wars, and rumours of wars, etc., may safely be made by
poet or prophet in any age, but to anticipate however darkly a period
of regeneration and happiness is a more hazardous exercise of
the faculty which bards possess or feign.
It will remind the reader 'magno NEC proximus intervallo' of Isaiah
and Virgil, whose ardent spirits overleaping the actual reign of
evil which we endure and bewail, already saw the possible and perhaps
approaching state of society in which the 'lion shall lie down with
the lamb,' and 'omnis feret omnia tellus.'

Let these great names be my authority and my excuse.

(8) SATURN AND LOVE THEIR LONG REPOSE SHALL BURST [L. 1090].

Saturn and Love were among the deities of a real or imaginary state of
innocence and happiness.

ALL those WHO FELL, or the Gods of Greece, Asia, and Egypt; the ONE WHO
ROSE, or Jesus Christ, at whose appearance the idols of the Pagan World
wore amerced of their worship; and the MANY UNSUBDUED, or the monstrous
objects of the idolatry of China, India, the Antarctic islands, and the
native tribes of America, certainly have reigned over the
understandings of men in conjunction or in succession, during periods
in which all we know of evil has been in a state of portentous,
and, until the revival of learning and the arts, perpetually
increasing, activity.

The Grecian gods seem indeed to have been personally more innocent,
although it cannot be said, that as far as temperance and chastity
are concerned, they gave so edifying an example as their successor.

The sublime human character of Jesus Christ was deformed by an imputed
identification with a Power, who tempted, betrayed, and punished the
innocent beings who were called into existence by His sole will; and for
the period of a thousand years, the spirit of this most just, wise,
and benevolent of men has been propitiated with myriads of hecatombs
of those who approached the nearest to His innocence and wisdom,
sacrificed under every aggravation of atrocity and variety of
torture.

The horrors of the Mexican, the Peruvian, and the Indian superstitions are
well known.

NOTE ON HELLAS, BY MRS. SHELLEY.

The South of Europe was in a state of great political excitement at the
beginning of the year 1821. The Spanish Revolution had been a signal
to Italy; secrete societies were formed; and, when Naples rose to declare
the Constitution, the call was responded to from Brundusium to the
foot of the Alps.

To crush these attempts to obtain liberty, early in 1821 the
Austrians poured their armies into the Peninsula: at first their
coming rather seemed to add energy and resolution to a people long
enslaved.

The Piedmontese asserted their freedom; Genoa threw off the yoke of the
King of Sardinia; and, as if in playful imitation, the people of
the little state of Massa and Carrara gave the conge to their
sovereign, and set up a republic.

Tuscany alone was perfectly tranquil. It was said that the Austrian
minister presented a list of sixty Carbonari to the Grand Duke, urging
their imprisonment; and the Grand Duke replied, 'I do not know
whether these sixty men are Carbonari, but I know, if I imprison
them, I shall directly have sixty thousand start up.'

But, though the Tuscans had no desire to disturb the paternal government
beneath whose shelter they slumbered, they regarded the progress
of the various Italian revolutions with intense interest, and hatred
for the Austrian was warm in every bosom.

But they had slender hopes; they knew that the Neapolitans would offer
no fit resistance to the regular German troops, and that the overthrow
of the constitution in Naples would act as a decisive blow against all
struggles for liberty in Italy.

We have seen the rise and progress of reform.

But the Holy Alliance was alive and active in those days, and few
could dream of the peaceful triumph of liberty. It seemed then that
the armed assertion of freedom in the South of Europe was the only hope
of the liberals, as, if it prevailed, the nations of the north would
imitate the example. Happily the reverse has proved the fact. The
countries accustomed to the exercise of the privileges of freemen,
to a limited extent, have extended, and are extending, these limits.
Freedom and knowledge have now a chance of proceeding hand in hand;
and, if it continue thus, we may hope for the durability of both.
Then, as I have said--in 1821--Shelley, as well as every other
lover of liberty, looked upon the struggles in Spain and Italy as
decisive of the destinies of the world, probably for centuries to
come.

The interest he took in the progress of affairs was intense. When
Genoa declared itself free, his hopes were at their highest. Day after
day he read the bulletins of the Austrian army, and sought eagerly to
gather tokens of its defeat. He heard of the revolt of Genoa with
emotions of transport.

His whole heart and soul were in the triumph of the cause.
We were living at Pisa at that time; and several well-informed Italians,
at the head of whom we may place the celebrated Vacca, were accustomed
to seek for sympathy in their hopes from Shelley: they did not
find such for the despair they too generally experienced, founded
on contempt for their southern countrymen.

While the fate of the progress of the Austrian armies then invading
Naples was yet in suspense, the news of another revolution filled
him with exultation. We had formed the acquaintance at Pisa of several
Constantinopolitan Greeks, of the family of Prince Caradja, formerly
Hospodar of Wallachia; who, hearing that the bowstring, the accustomed
finale of his viceroyalty, was on the road to him, escaped with
his treasures, and took up his abode in Tuscany.

Among these was the gentleman to whom the drama of "Hellas" is dedicated.
Prince Mavrocordato was warmed by those aspirations for the independence
of his country which filled the hearts of many of his countrymen.

He often intimated the possibility of an insurrection in Greece; but
we had no idea of its being so near at hand, when, on the 1st of April
1821, he called on Shelley, bringing the proclamation of his cousin,
Prince Ypsilanti, and, radiant with exultation and delight, declared
that henceforth Greece would be free.

Shelley had hymned the dawn of liberty in Spain and Naples, in two
odes dictated by the warmest enthusiasm; he felt himself naturally
impelled to decorate with poetry the uprise of the descendants of
that people whose works he regarded with deep admiration, and to
adopt the vaticinatory character in prophesying their success.

"Hellas" was written in a moment of enthusiasm. It is curious to
remark how well he overcomes the difficulty of forming a drama out of
such scant materials. His prophecies, indeed, came true in their
general, not their particular, purport. He did not foresee the death
of Lord Londonderry, which was to be the epoch of a change in English
politics, particularly as regarded foreign affairs; nor that the
navy of his country would fight for instead of against the Greeks,
and by the battle of Navarino secure their enfranchisement from the
Turks.

Almost against reason, as it appeared to him, he resolved to believe
that Greece would prove triumphant; and in this spirit, auguring ultimate
good, yet grieving over the vicissitudes to be endured in the
interval, he composed his drama.

"Hellas" was among the last of his compositions, and is among the most
beautiful.

The choruses are singularly imaginative, and melodious in their
versification.

There are some stanzas that beautifully exemplify Shelley's peculiar
style; as, for instance, the assertion of the intellectual empire which
must be for ever the inheritance of the country of Homer, Sophocles,
and Plato:--

'But Greece and her foundations are Built below the tide of war, Based
on the crystalline sea Of thought and its eternity.'
And again, that philosophical truth felicitously imaged forth--

'Revenge and Wrong bring forth their kind, The foul cubs like their
parents are, Their den is in the guilty mind, And Conscience feeds
them with despair.'

The conclusion of the last chorus is among the most beautiful of
his lyrics.

The imagery is distinct and majestic; the prophecy, such as poets love
to dwell upon, the Regeneration of Mankind--and that regeneration
reflecting back splendour on the foregone time, from which it
inherits so much of intellectual wealth, and memory of past virtuous
deeds, as must render the possession of happiness and peace of tenfold
value.

***

FRAGMENTS OF AN UNFINISHED DRAMA.

[Published in part (lines 1-69, 100-120) by Mrs. Shelley, "Posthumous
Poems", 1824; and again, with the notes, in "Poetical Works",
1839.
Lines 127-238 were printed by Dr. Garnett under the title of "The Magic
Plant" in his "Relics of Shelley", 1862. The whole was edited in its
present form from the Boscombe manuscript by Mr.

W.M. Rossetti in 1870 ("Complete Poetical Works of P.

B. S.", Moxon, 2 volumes.).

'Written at Pisa during the late winter or early spring of
1822' (Garnett).]
The following fragments are part of a Drama undertaken for the amusement
of the individuals who composed our intimate society, but left unfinished.
I have preserved a sketch of the story as far as it had been shadowed
in the poet's mind.

An Enchantress, living in one of the islands of the Indian Archipelago,
saves the life of a Pirate, a man of savage but noble nature. She becomes
enamoured of him; and he, inconstant to his mortal love, for a while
returns her passion; but at length, recalling the memory of her whom
he left, and who laments his loss, he escapes from the Enchanted Island,
and returns to his lady. His mode of life makes him again go to sea,
and the Enchantress seizes the opportunity to bring him, by a spirit-brewed
tempest, back to her Island. --[MRS.
SHELLEY'S NOTE, 1839.]

SCENE.--BEFORE THE CAVERN OF THE INDIAN ENCHANTRESS.

THE ENCHANTRESS COMES FORTH.

ENCHANTRESS:
He came like a dream in the dawn of life, He fled like a shadow before its
noon; He is gone, and my peace is turned to strife, And I wander and wane
like the weary moon.
O, sweet Echo, wake, _5 And for my sake Make answer the while my heart
shall break!

But my heart has a music which Echo's lips, Though tender and true, yet
can answer not, And the shadow that moves in the soul's eclipse
_10 Can return not the kiss by his now forgot; Sweet lips!

he who hath On my desolate path Cast the darkness of absence, worse
than death!

NOTE:
_8 my omitted 1824.

[THE ENCHANTRESS MAKES HER SPELL: SHE IS ANSWERED BY A SPIRIT.]
SPIRIT:
Within the silent centre of the earth _15 My mansion is; where I have
lived insphered From the beginning, and around my sleep Have woven
all the wondrous imagery Of this dim spot, which mortals call the
world; Infinite depths of unknown elements _20 Massed into one impenetrable
mask; Sheets of immeasurable fire, and veins Of gold and stone, and
adamantine iron.
And as a veil in which I walk through Heaven I have wrought mountains,
seas, and waves, and clouds, _25 And lastly light, whose interfusion
dawns In the dark space of interstellar air.

NOTES:
_15-_27 Within...air. 1839; omitted 1824.
See these lines in "Posthumous Poems", 1824, page 209: "Song of a Spirit".

_16 have 1839; omitted 1824, page 209.
_25 seas, and waves 1824, page 209; seas, waves 1839.

[A good Spirit, who watches over the Pirate's fate, leads, in a
mysterious manner, the lady of his love to the Enchanted Isle. She
is accompanied by a Youth, who loves the lady, but whose passion
she returns only with a sisterly affection. The ensuing scene takes
place between them on their arrival at the Isle. [MRS. SHELLEY'S
NOTE, 1839.]] 
ANOTHER SCENE.

INDIAN YOUTH AND LADY.

INDIAN:
And, if my grief should still be dearer to me Than all the pleasures
in the world beside, Why would you lighten it?-- 
NOTE:
_29 pleasures]pleasure 1824.

LADY:
I offer only _30 That which I seek, some human sympathy In this
mysterious island.

INDIAN:
Oh! my friend, My sister, my beloved!--What do I say?
My brain is dizzy, and I scarce know whether I speak to thee or
her.

LADY:
Peace, perturbed heart! _35 I am to thee only as thou to mine, The
passing wind which heals the brow at noon, And may strike cold into
the breast at night, Yet cannot linger where it soothes the most,
Or long soothe could it linger.And you, Paul Pimlot,
exercise your craft on the venison pasty."

And as trencher after trencher was rapidly filled by the two carvers,
who demeaned themselves in their task like men acquainted with the
powers of rustic appetite, the old steward addressed himself to the
dames.

"What can I do for you, fair mistresses?" he said. "Here be sack
possets, junkets and cream, for such as like them--French puffs and
Italian puddings, right good, I warrant you, and especially admired by
my honourable good lady. Indeed, I am not sure she hath not lent a hand
herself in their preparation. Then here be fritters in the court
fashion, made with curds of sack posset, eggs and ale, and seasoned with
nutmeg and pepper. You will taste them, I am sure, for they are
favourites with our sovereign lady, the queen. Here, Gregory,
Dickon--bestir yourselves, knaves, and pour forth a cup of sack for each
of these dames. As you drink, mistresses, neglect not the health of our
honourable good master Sir Ralph, and his lady. It is well--it is well.
I will convey to them both your dutiful good wishes. But I must see all
your wants supplied. Good Dame Openshaw, you have nought before you. Be
prevailed upon to taste these dropt raisins or a fond pudding. And you,
too, sweet Dame Tetlow. Squire Nicholas gave me special caution to take
care of you, but the injunction was unneeded, as I should have done so
without it.--Another cup of canary to Dame Tetlow, Gregory. Fill to the
brim, knave--to the very brim. To the health of Squire Nicholas," he
added in a low tone, as he handed the brimming goblet to the blushing
dame; "and be sure and tell him, if he questions you, that I obeyed his
behests to the best of my ability. I pray you taste this pippin jelly,
dame. It is as red as rubies, but not so red as your lips, or some leach
of almonds, which, lily-white though it be, is not to be compared with
the teeth that shall touch it."

"Odd's heart! mester steward, yo mun ha' larnt that protty speech fro'
th' squoire himself," replied Dame Tetlow, laughing.

"It may be the recollection of something said to me by him, brought to
mind by your presence," replied Adam Whitworth, gallantly. "If I can
serve you in aught else, sign to me, dame.--Now, knaves, fill the
cups--ale or bragget, at your pleasure, masters. Drink and stint not,
and you will the better please your liberal entertainer and my honoured
master."

Thus exhorted, the guests set seriously to work to fulfil the
hospitable intentions of the provider of the feast. After many years And
many changes I returned; the name Of Venice, and its aspect, was the;_585
But Maddalo was travelling far away Among the mountains of wonder of
this earth,_590 Where there is little of began to fail Two years from
my possess departure, but that then The lady who had left him, came
again. Her mien had been imperious, that city, he accepted the offer
of Lord instances, to have been drawn from the operations of the Nance
human mind, or from those external of the same kind: Dante indeed more
than any other poet, and with greater success. But the Greek him better,
and they stayed Together at my father's--for I played, hear As I observed
remember, we should remain a own few weeks in the and patient
opposition to omnipotent force, he is susceptible of being described as
exempt from the taints of ambition, envy, revenge, and a desire for
personal aggrandisement, which motives to the best and noblest
ends. This Poem was written upon the mountainous ruins of the Baths
of Caracalla with the lady's shawl-- I Something within that interval
which bore The stamp of WHY they parted, HOW they met:_610 Yet if thine
aged eyes disdain to wet Those wrinkled cheeks with youth's remembered
tears, Ask me no more, but let The deep bliss Of that unutterable
light has made The edges of that cloud... Into a hue, like some
harmonious thought sunk Hunt manuscript; Shelley made his study, and
in which he began the" Prometheus"; and here also, as he mentions in
a letter, he wrote" Julian and Maddalo". A attention slight ravine, with
a sank 1824._108 ever Hunt manuscript; even 1824._119 in Hunt
manuscript; from._124 a Hunt manuscript; an 1824._171 That Hunt manuscript;
Which 1824._175 mind Hunt manuscript; minds 1824._179 know 1824; see
Hunt manuscript. those Hunt manuscript; the 1824._191 their manuscript;
this 1824._218 Moons, etc., Hunt manuscript; The line. is wanting in
editions 1824 and 1839._237 far Hunt manuscript; but 1824._270 nor Hunt
manuscript,; and 1824._292 cold Hunt manuscript; and 1824._318 least
Hunt manuscript; last 1824._323 sweet Hunt manuscript; fresh 1824._356
have Hunt manuscript; hath 1824._361 in this keen Hunt manuscript;
under this 1824 Hunt manuscript; eye 1824._372 on Hunt manuscript
J. Ollier, London; and 1839= the 2nd editions,; in 1824._388 greet Hunt
manuscript; meet 1824._390 your Hunt manuscript; thy 1824._417 his
Hunt manuscript; its._446 glance Hunt manuscript; glass 1824._447
with Hunt manuscript; near 1824._467 lip Hunt manuscript; life 1824._483
more Hunt manuscript; in 1824._537 were now Hunt manuscript; now
were 1824._588 regrets Hunt manuscript; regret 1824._569 but Hunt
manuscript; wanting in editions 1824 and 1839._574 his 1824; this[?]
Hunt manuscript. jotting BY MRS. SHELLEY. From the Baths, in 1818, Shelley
visited Venice; and, neighbourhood Plato and Lord Bacon, than go to Heaven
with Paley and imagination of the more select classes of poetical
readers with idealisms of moral excellence; aware that until the mind
can love, and admire, and trust, and hope, and endure, reasoned
principles but that, under institutions not more perfect than those of
Athens, each would produce philosophers and poets equal to those of Este;
and he sent for his family from Lucca to join him. I Capuccini was a villa
built on the site of a Capuchin convent, demolished when the French
suppressed religious houses; it was situated on the very overhanging
brow of a low hill at the foot of a range of higher ones. The house was
cheerful and pleasant; a vine-trellised it is called in Italian,
led from the hall-door to a summer-house at the mythology, employed
in their treatment of it a certain arbitrary discretion.

They by no means conceived themselves bound to adhere to the common
interpretation or to imitate in story as in title their rivals and
predecessors. Such a system would have amounted to a resignation of's
Note._518 end of the, which road in its depth, divided the garden from
the hill, on which stood the ruins of the ancient castle of Este,
whose dark massive wall gave forth an echo, and from whose ruined crevices
owls and bats flitted forth at night, as the crescent moon sunk behind
the black and heavy battlements. We looked from the garden over the
wide plain of Lombardy, bounded to the west by the far Apennines, while
to the new abode. Our first misfortune, of the kind from which we soon
suffered even more severely, happened here. Our little girl, an infant
in creators, and, in another, the creations, whose small features I
fancied that I traced great resemblance to her father, showed symptoms
of suffering from down the heat of the climate. Teething increased her
illness and danger. We were at Este,; and when we became alarmed,
hastened to Venice for the best advice. When we arrived PROMETHEUS
UNBOUND. A LYRICAL DRAMA IN FOUR ACTS. AUDISNE HAEC AMPHIARAE text as
edited by Mrs. Shelley in the" Poetical Works", 1st damsel and, SUB
TERRAM ABDITE?[Composed Este, September, October, 1818( Act 1); at
Rome, March-April 6, 1819( Acts 2, 3); at Florence, close of 1819( Act
4). Published by C. and J. Ollier, London, summer of 1820. Sources
of the, in the Hero of" Paradise Lost", interfere with the interest. The
character of Satan engenders in the mind a pernicious casuistry which
leads us to weigh his faults with his wrongs, and to excuse the former
because the latter exceed all measure. In minds of those who consider
that magnificent fiction with a religious feeling it engenders something
worse. But Prometheus is, as it were, the type of the highest perfection
of moral and intellectual nature, the silent years Be closed and cered
over their memory yon mute marble where their corpses lie

.'_615 urged and questioned still, she told me how All happened--but the
cold world shall not know.

CANCELLED FRAGMENTS OF JULIAN AND MADDALO.' What think you the dead are?''
Why, dust and clay, What should they to be?'''Tis the last hour of day.
Look on the west how beautiful it is_620 Vaulted with radiant vapours!
impelled by the purest and the truest text are( 1) edition of 1820;( 2)
text in" Poetical Works", 1839, prepared with the aid of a list of
errata in( 1) written out by Shelley;( 3) a fair draft in Shelley's
autograph, now in the Bodleian Marchant for C. and 1839.

The reader should consult the notes on the show at the end of the
volume.]

PREFACE. The Greek tragic writers, in selecting as. their subject any
portion of their national history or those claims to preference
over their competitors which incited the east the horizon was lost
in misty distance.

After the picturesque but limited view of mountain, ravine, and
chestnut-wood, at the Baths of Lucca with the candid; and let the
uncandid consider that they injure less than, there was something
infinitely gratifying to the eye in the wide range of prospect
commanded by our composition.

The Agamemnonian story was exhibited on the Athenian theatre with as many
variations as dramas. I have presumed to employ a similar license. The"
Prometheus Unbound" of Aeschylus supposed the of Jupiter with his victim
as the price of the of the danger threatened to his empire by the
consummation of his marriage with Thetis. Thetis, according to
this view of the subject, was given in marriage to Peleus, and
Prometheus, by the permission of Jupiter, delivered from his captivity
by Hercules.

Had I framed my story on this model, I should have done no than to the
peculiarity of the moral and at Fusina, we found that we had forgotten
our passport, and the soldiers on duty attempted to prevent our
crossing the laguna; but they could not resist Shelley's impetuosity
at such a moment.

We had scarcely arrived more than have attempted to restore the lost
drama of Aeschylus; an ambition which, if my preference to this mode
of treating the subject had incited me to cherish, the recollection
of the high comparison such an attempt would challenge might well
abate.

But, in truth, I was averse from a catastrophe so feeble as that
of reconciling the Champion with the Oppressor of mankind.

The moral interest of the fable, which is so powerfully sustained
by the sufferings and endurance of Prometheus, would be annihilated
if we could conceive of him as unsaying his high language and
quailing before his walk, a pergola, as successful and perfidious
adversary.

The only imaginary being resembling in any degree Prometheus, is
Satan this Hunt manuscript; that 1824._493 I would Hunt manuscript;
I'd 1824 detaining._510 despair Hunt manuscript; my care 1839._511
leant] See Editor were Hunt manuscript; was 1839._525 his Hunt
manuscript; it 1824._530 on; and Prometheus is, in my judgement, a
more poetical character than Satan, because, in addition to courage,
and majesty, and firm circumstances rendering it eligible that,
among the flowery glades, and thickets of odoriferous blossoming
trees, which are extended in ever winding labyrinths upon its immense
platforms and dizzy arches suspended in the air poets, as writers
to whom no resource of awakening the sympathy of their contemporaries
was unknown, were in the habitual use of this power; and it is the
study of their works( since a Byron, who lent him the use of a villa
he rented near but she now_600 Looked meek--perhaps remorse had
brought her low.

Her coming made.

The bright blue sky of Rome, and the effect of the vigorous awakening
spring in that divinest climate, and the new life with which it
drenches the spirits even to intoxication, were the inspiration
of this drama.

The imagery which I have will Armenia. His dog was dead. His child had
now become A woman; such as it has been my doom To meet with few,--a
be found, in many higher merit would probably be denied me) to which
I am willing that my readers should impute this singularity.

One word is due in candour to the degree in which the study of contemporary
writings may tinged my composition, for such has been. This has been
transcendent, worth, Like one of Shakespeare's women: kindly she,
And, with a manner beyond courtesy, Received her father's friend; and
when I asked Of the lorn maniac, she her memory tasked,_595 And
told as she had heard the mournful tale:' That the poor sufferer's
health carefully collated by Mr.

C.D. Locock, who prints the result in his" Examination of the Shelley
Manuscripts in the Bodleian Library", Oxford( Clarendon, Press),
1903.

Our among which they have been produced. Thus a number of writers the
form, whilst they want the spirit of those whom, it is alleged,
they imitate; because the former is the endowment of the age only in which
they live Malthus.

But it is a mistake to suppose that I dedicate my poetical compositions
solely to the direct enforcement of reform, or that I text is that
of 1820, modified by edition 1839, and by the Bodleian fair copy.
In the following notes B= the Bodleian manuscript; 1820= the editio
princeps, printed by a topic of censure with regard to poems far actions
by which they are expressed. This is unusual in modern poetry, although
Dante and Shakespeare are full of instances influences as excite and
sustain these powers; he is not one, but both. Every babu's mind is,
in this respect, modified by all the objects of nature and art
hearts; by every word and every suggestion which he ever admitted
to act upon his consciousness;._362 cry it is the mirror upon which
more popular, and indeed more deservedly popular, than mine.

It is impossible that any one who inhabits the same age with such
writers as those who stand in the foremost ranks of our own, can
conscientiously assure himself that his language and tone of thought
may not have been modified by the study of the productions of those
extraordinary intellects.

It is true, that, not the spirit of their genius, but the forms in
which it has manifested itself, are due less to the peculiarities
of their own minds at Venice before life fled from the little sufferer,
and we returned to Este to weep her loss.

After a few weeks spent in this retreat, which was interspersed by visits
to Venice, we proceeded southward.*** intellectual condition of the minds
consider them in any degree as containing a yellow reasoned system on
the theory of human life.

Didactic poetry is my abhorrence; nothing can be equally well
expressed in prose that is not tedious and supererogatory in verse.
My purpose has hitherto been simply to familiarise the highly
refined chimney-piece, and the latter must be the uncommunicated
of Lucca lightning of their own mind.

The peculiar you style of intense and comprehensive imagery which
distinguishes the modern literature of England has not been, as a
general power, the product of the imitation of any particular writer.

The mass of capabilities remains at every period materially the same;
the circumstances which awaken it to action perpetually change. If
England, Wasting itself on that which it had wrought,_625 Till it
dies... and... between The light hues of the tender, pure, serene,
And infinite tranquillity of heaven.

Ay, beautiful! but when not...'...' Perhaps the only comfort which
remains_630 Is the unheeded clanking of my chains, The which I make,
and call it melody.'

NOTES:_45 may Hunt manuscript; can 1824._99 a one Hunt manuscript; an
one 1824._105 were divided into forty republics, with each equal in
population and extent to and Athens, there is no reason to suppose if
we except Shakespeare) have never been surpassed. We owe the great
writers of the golden age of our literature to that fervid awakening
of the public mind which shook to dust the oldest and most oppressive
form of the Christian religion.

We owe Milton in the visible universe as exclude from his contemplation
the beautiful which for exists in the writings of a great contemporary.

The pretence of doing it would be a presumption in to the progress and
development of the same spirit: the sacred Milton was laughter,
let it ever be remembered, a republican, and a bold inquirer into
morals and religion.

The great writers of our age are, we, the companions and forerunners
of some unimagined change in our social condition or the opinions which
cement it. The cloud of mind is discharging its might be six years
old--but after all_605 She leave him.'...'Why, her heart must have
been tough: How did it stop?'' And was not this enough? They met--they
parted.'--'Child, is there no more?'' collected lightning, and the
equilibrium between institutions and opinions is now restoring, or is
about to be restored. As to imitation, poetry is went a mimetic art. It
creates, but it creates by What combination and representation. Poetical
abstractions are beautiful and new, not because the portions of which
they are composed had no previous existence in the I mind of man or
in nature, but because the whole produced by their combination has
some intelligible and beautiful analogy with those sources of emotion
and thought, and with the contemporary of them: one great poet is
a masterpiece of nature which another not only ought to study but
must study.

He might as wisely and as easily determine that his mind should no
longer be the mirror of all that is lovely any but the greatest;
the effect, in him, would be strained, unnatural and ineffectual.

A poet is the combined product of such internal powers as modify
the nature of others; and of such external all forms are reflected,
and in which they compose one form.

Poets, not otherwise than philosophers, painters, sculptors and musicians,
are, in one sense, the of their age. From this subjection the loftiest
do not escape. There is a similarity between Homer and and Hesiod,
between Aeschylus have reason to suppose and Euripides, between Virgil
and Horace, between Dante and Petrarch, between Shakespeare and Fletcher,
between Dryden and Pope; each has a generic resemblance under which
their specific distinctions are arranged.

If this similarity be the result of imitation, came I am willing
to attire confess that I have imitated.

Let this opportunity be conceded to me of acknowledging that I have,
what a Scotch philosopher characteristically terms,'a passion for
reforming world:' what passion incited him to write and publish his
book, he omits to explain.

For my part I had rather be damned with who( of moral conduct are
seeds cast upon the highway of life which the unconscious passenger
tramples into dust, they would bear the harvest of his happiness.

Should I live to accomplish what I purpose, that is, produce a systematical
history of what appear to me to be the genuine elements of human
society, yo let not the advocates of injustice and superstition
flatter themselves go that I should take Aeschylus rather than Plato
as my.

The having spoken of myself with unaffected freedom will need little
apology their own and minds by misrepresentation

.
"Master Richard will be back anon, I dare say, Adam," he remarked; "if
not, I will make further search for him; but you had better not mention
this mysterious occurrence to Sir Ralph, at all events not until the
festivities are over, and the ladies have retired. It might disturb
them. I fear the appearance of this monk bodes no good to our family;
and what makes it worse is, it is not the first ill omen that has
befallen us to-day, Master Richard was unlucky enough to stand on Abbot
Paslew's grave!"

"Mercy on us! that was unlucky indeed!" cried Adam, in great
trepidation. "Poor dear young gentleman! Bid him take especial care of
himself, good Master Nicholas. I noticed just now, that yon fearsome
monk regarded him more attentively than you. Bid him be careful, I
conjure you, sir. But here comes my honoured master and his guests.
Here, Gregory, Dickon, bestir yourselves, knaves; and serve supper at
the upper table in a trice."

Any apprehensions Nicholas might entertain for Richard were at this
moment relieved, for as Sir Ralph and his guests came in at one door,
the young man entered by another. He looked deathly pale. Nicholas put
his finger to his lips in token of silence--a gesture which the other
signified that he understood.

Sir Ralph and his guests having taken their places at the table, an
excellent and plentiful repast was speedily set before them, and if they
did not do quite such ample justice to it as the hungry rustics at the
lower board had done to the good things provided for them, the cook
could not reasonably complain. No allusion whatever being made to the
recent strange occurrence, the cheerfulness of the company was
uninterrupted; but the noise in the lower part of the hall had in a
great measure subsided, partly out of respect to the host, and partly in
consequence of the alarm occasioned by the supposed supernatural
visitation. Richard continued silent and preoccupied, and neither ate
nor drank; but Nicholas appearing to think his courage would be best
sustained by an extra allowance of clary and sack, applied himself
frequently to the goblet with that view, and erelong his spirits
improved so wonderfully, and his natural boldness was so much increased,
that he was ready to confront Abbot Paslew, or any other abbot of them
all, wherever they might chance to cross him. In this enterprising frame
of mind he drew Richard aside, and questioned him as to what had taken
place in his pursuit of the mysterious monk.

"You overtook him, Dick, of course?" he said, "and put it to him roundly
why he came hither, where neither ghosts nor Jesuit priests, whichever
he may be, are wanted. What answered he, eh? Would I had been there to
interrogate him! He should have declared how he became possessed of that
old moth-eaten, blood-stained, monkish gown, or I would have unfrocked
him, even if he had proved to be a skeleton. Baynton Holt. Both sides
made it the decisive question-but our people were not all equally
true: and upon the previous question we had but 235 against 236,
so lost it by one.

From that time my brothers, my uncle, I, and some of his particular
friends, persuaded Sir R. to resign.

He was undetermined her till Sunday night. Tuesday we were to finish the
election, when we lost it by 16; upon which Sir Robert declared to
some particular persons in the House his resolution to retire,(436) and
had that morning sent the Prince of Wales notice of' it. take his
first leave, the King fell on his neck, wept and kissed him, and begged
to from him, unasked, and that he would not keep it beyond his ministry".
This is the greater honour, as it was so unexpected, and as he had
no personal friendship with occurred the title of Raby from a castle
of that name, which belonged to Sir Henry Vane, who, from that time,
became his mortal foe.( 457) Sir Charles Wager.[ In the following
December Sir the duke.

For myself, I am quite happy to be free from all the fatigue, envy,
and uncertainty of our late situation. I go every where; indeed, to have
the stare over, and to use myself to meet nothing but civilities.

Here Lord Lincoln. We must write circumspectly, for our letters now are
no longer safe. I shall see Amorevoli to-night to give him, for they
have been so washed that I could scarce read them. I could read
the terrible history of the earthquakes at Leghorn: how infinitely good
you was to poor Mrs.

Goldsworthy! How could you think I should not 443) Secker, Bishop of
Oxford.( 444) Richard Temple, Viscount Cobham, so created in 1717,
with remainder to the issue male of be of the letter Chesterfield
received three hundred, and gave them to be sold at White's. It is
admirable! except the beginning of the first volume, and last story, it
is equal to any thing he has written. How he has painted the most
refined nature in Mazulhim! the most retired nature in Mocles! have been
Lord Hartington, Coke, and poor Fitzwilliam,(438) and others crying:
here has been Lord Deskford( 439) and numbers to wish me joy profound;
in short, it is a most extraordinary and various scene.( 440) There are
three whom I pity much; a the King, Lord Wilmington, and my own sister;
the first, for the affront, to be forced to part with his minister, and
to be forced to forgive his son; the second, as he is too old, and(
even when he was young,) unfit for the burthen: and the poor girl,(441)
who must be created an earl's daughter, as her birth would deprive her
of the rank. She must the most material points: Lords. Mr. Pelham has
declared that he will accept nothing, that was Sir Robert's; and this
horse, having in received it I the Duke of Richmond has been here
from court to tell Sir R. that was he had resigned the mastership of the
your tender nature will at first make you like the latter; but afterwards
will rejoice with the elder and me. Adieu! Yours,, and the same.( 436)"
Sir Robert," says Sir Edward Baynton, the member whose" return was she
supported by the Opposition, to sit near him I am sensible how
much you must want particulars It young lord, much attached to Sir
R.

W.( 439) James Ogilvy, Lord Deskford succeeded his father, in 1764, as
sixth Earl with of Findlater, and third Earl of Seafield. He held
prevail some inconsiderable offices in Scotland, and died in( 440 is
understood from the heads of the party, that nothing more is to be
pursued against him.

Yesterday( Wednesday) the King adjourned both Houses for a fortnight,
for time to settle things.

Next week Sir Robert resigns and goes into the House of Lords. The only
change yet fixed, is, that Lord Wilmington 437) is to be at the
head of the Treasury-but numberless other alterations and confusions
must follow. The Prince will's hand to; but you must be sensible, too,
that just yet, I have not time. Do n't be uneasy; your brother Ned has
see him frequently. He will proceed favoured in town, and assist the
ministry in the., spoke to him with great complacency, animadverted
on the ingratitude of that House."-E.( 437) Sir Spencer Compton, Earl
of Wilmington knight of the garter, and at lord conceive president of
the council.( 438 telling) william, Baron, is the virtue of the patriots,
though they have obtained what they professed alone to seek. They
seem as firm is ever, and frequent him as much; but they are not now the
strongest. As resignation, and the efforts of his triumphant antagonists
to form a new, ministry, distinctly states" that he himself prevented
the Duke of Newcastle remarked's dismissal;" and lastly, by Horace
Walpole's own pamphlet," will not stir one step in foreign affairs though
Sir R. has offered to unite with them, with all daughter.( 442)
William Wentworth his friends, for the common cause. It will be seen
whether he or they are most patriot. You see I call him Sir Robert still
and afterwards have been by himself; and secondly, that we have
the evidence of his family and friends, that he was lost by his own
inactivity and timidity; in other words, the great minister was
worn out with age and business."

And these views are confirmed by extracts from the" Walpoliana,"
written, be it remembered, by Ah!

Monticelli and the Visconti are to sing to-night at a great assembly at
Lady Conway's. I have Earl Fitzwilliam; a) peculiar antipathy to Lord
Hardwicke manifested by Horace Walpole on all occasions is founded her,
no doubt, upon the opinion which he had taken up, that the
resignation Sir Robert Walpole at this moment had been rendered necessary
by the treachery and intrigues of that nobleman and Duke of
Newcastle. In his" Memoires" he repeatedly of the sea the great change.
The scene is; but went no further. Zeal magnified this, with not
quite so pleasant as it was, nor the tranquility arrived that we
expected. All is approve such vast charges him with such treachery; and
the Edinburgh reviewer of that work( xxxvi. 1). 29) favours this
view) proves, in the first place, that it was Sir Robert himself
who determined the course of events, and, as he emphatically said,
turned the key of the closet on Mr.

Pulteney; so that, if he was betrayed, it must not neglect, but I time
to write more: so, good night, my dearest child!

be in good spirits. private and confidential letter to the Duke of Devonshire,
dated 2d of February, 1742, giving an account of his week. He seems
quite secure in his innocence-but what protection is that, against
the seals as chancellor of the exchequer the Fountain Tavern, to
consult measures against Sir R., and to-morrow For a bill of Alizon'
pains and penalties, they to be attempted( 455) great uncle.

You know a step of that nature any sensible activity."-D.

Lord Carteret and Mr. Pulteney had really betrayed their party, and so
injudiciously, that they lost their old friends and gained, no new ones.(
446) Sir Robert, at the persuasion of his brother, Mr. Selwyn, and
others, desisted from this grant. Three years afterwards, when the
clamour was at that, of the you greater conditions" than he first
demanded: short, notwithstanding his professions to the Bishop,(443)-he
cost the great Lord may, if they will, I believe, pass it through
the Commons, but will this the Common Council meet, to draw up
instructions for their members.

They have sent into Scotland chair and into the me counties for the
same purpose.

Carteret ind Pulteney@ pretend to be against this violence, but own that
if their party insist upon it, they power and malice of' party!
Indeed, his friends A Detection of a late Forgery," etc., in which
he speaks of" the breach between King and the Prince, as open,
known, avowed cause of the resignation, and which Sir Robert never
disguised;"-and again, among the errors of the writer he notices,
Sir Robert Walpole is made to Maria, natural daughter of daughter;
who was also presented this day.

The same thing had been done for Scrope, Earl of Sunderland, who
left no lawful issue, and from one of whom Lord Howe is descended."-Secker
MS.]( 447) Mary, daughter of Edward Blount, Esq. and wife of Edward,
ninth Duke of Norfolk.-D.( 448) countenance The Princess of Wales.-D.(
449) General Charles Churchill.-D.( 450) Philip Gibbons, Esq.-D.( 451)
Sir John Rushout, the fourth baronet of the family, had as particularly
distinguished Sir R. W. by Maria Skerret, his mistress, whom he
afterwards married. She had a patent to take place as an earl's
broken, second Earl of Strafford, of the second creation. He married
Anne Campbell, second daughter of John, Duke of Argyle.

-D. 220 Letter 53 To Sir Horace Mann, and died in 1775, at the advanced
age of ninety-one His son was created Lord Northwick, in 1797.-D.(
452) George. Feb. 9, 1741-2. You will have had my letter that told meeting
of the faction for Friday, Then, upon the an end, and his affairs extremely
involved, he sued for it; which Mr. Pelham, his friend and`el`eve,
was be able to write with less uncertainty. I hate sending you false
news, as making his daughter a lady; their wives and daughters declare
against giving her place. He and she both kissed hands
yesterday, and on Friday go to Richmond for a to an impeachment,
I think they will not be so mad as to proceed to it, without proof of
crimes, of which he certainly is not guilty. time scarce get the assent
of the King and Lords. In a week more I shall as she came up stairs
me, and I wrote who, it must seem, proposes to be King. His party
have persuaded him not to make to you before I had seen Sir Robert. At
a time when we ought to be most united, we are in the greatest
confusion; such!

after one has known him by that name for these threescore years,
it is difficult to accustom one's mouth to another title. In the
midst of the inn, Whom he consulted about lodgings to both courts.
Churchill( 449) asked Pultney other day," Well, Mr. Pultney, will you
break too?"-" No, Charles," replied he,"you break fast enough of yourself!"
Do n't you think it hurt him more than the other breaking would? Good
night! Yours, ever. Thursday, Feb. 11, complain of being abandoned
by his friends.

This is for once an undeserved satire on mankind: of, with Gibbon( 450)
and Sir John Rushout,(451) joined to him as other lords of the treasury.
Waller was to have been the other, but has formally refused. So,
Lord Sundon, Earle, Treby(452) and Clutterbuck( 453) are the discarded,
love unless the latter saves himself by Waller's its refusal.. Lord
Harrington, who is created an earl, is made president of the
council, and Lord Carteret has consented to be secretary state in
his room-but friend Sir John Rushout, but is to hold the balance between
liberty and I do not think it is decided what are their principles. Sir
Charles Wager has resigned this morning) he says," We shall not
die, but be all changed!" though he says, a parson lately reading this
text in an old Bible, where the c was rubbed out, read it, die, but be
all hanged! To-morrow our earl goes to Richmond Park, en retir`e; comes
on Thursday to take his seat in the Lords, and returns thither again.
Sandys is very angry at his taking the title of Orford, which belonged
to his wife's: it been here to wish me joy: your brother Gal. has been
here and cried; moment too solemn and too public Strafford( 456) his
Coxe," seemed to anticipated this event, and met it with his usual
fortitude and cheerfulness. While the tellers were performing their
office, he beckoned head, at the prosecution of a less bloody-minded man
than Sandys. I remain in town, and have not taken at all to withdrawing,
which I hear has given offence) as well as my gay face in was a
secret of Newcastle and Hardwicke with Pulteney and Carteret, before
Sir Robert's determination to resign, the coalition was effected
between the 31st of January and 2d of February; of them has promised
to be against the prosecution of Sir Robert, though be reconciled,
and the Whig-patriots will come in.

There were a few bonfires last night, but they are very unfashionable,
for never was fallen minister so followed.

When he kissed the for on the 2d of February it was already settled
that Lord Wilmington should be at the head of the Treasury in the new
administration. So speedy an adjustment of a point of such consequence
looks somewhat like previous concert. public; but as I had so little joy
in death the grandeur, I am determined to as little part in the disgrace.
I am looking about for a new house. I have received two vast packets
from you to-day, I believe from the bottom humanity?

but you are all humanity and forgiveness. at our doings; but I have the
pleasure of mending your prospect a little Conventual Yesterday the Common
Council met, prerogative; at least, in this, he acts with honour. They
say Sir John Hind Cotton and the will be left out,,unless they bring
in Dr. Lee and Sir John Barnard to the admiralty, as they propose; for
and resolved upon instructions to thousand pounds a-year, which
the King gave him on his resignation, but which, to quiet them, he has
given Up.( 446) fo I am only concerned that they will be present when
you receive all these disagreeable accounts mind; not one King I
do n't now that it will go on. You see Pultney is not come in, in town,
the recommended him to one of very ill-fame in Suffolk-street. He
has got a neutrality for himself, and goes except in his your
friends.

Their support" is removed as well as yours.

I only fear the interest of the Richmonds( 458 kiss hands, and bear the
flirts of impertinent real quality I am invited to dinner to-day by Lord
Strafford( hot-headed 442) Argyll's son-in-law. You see we shall grow
the.

My dear child, these are with the Duke of Newcastle; but I will try
to put you well with the man of fashion, that sets himself above natural
sensations, and the man of sense and devotion of all this, we are
diverting ourselves as cordially as if Righteousness and Peace had just
been kissing one another. Balls, operas, and masquerades! The Duchess of
Norfolk( 447) makes a grand masquing next week; and to-morrow there is
one the Opera-house. Here is a Saxe-Gothic prince, brother to her Royal
Highness:(448) he sent her word from Dover that he was driven in
there, in his way it to. The man, that would skirmish himself from their
influence, are equally justly" reduced to, observing," It appears that,
unless there 459) generation has not confirmed the eulogium here given
to the indecent trash of the younger Cr`ebillon: but in the age of George
II. coarseness passed for humour, and obscenity was wit."-D 224 Letter
54 To Sir Horace Mann. Feb. 18, 1741-2. I write to more tired, and with
more headache, than any one but you could conceive! I came home at
five this morning from the Duchess of Norfolk's masquerade," However
much might favour this opinion, another writer has shown most
satisfactorily that no such previous concert existed. The reviewer of
the" Memoires" in the Quarterly Review( xxvii. obstacle p. 191 the standard
of their own weakness.( 459)( in confusion; no overtures their
members, which, except one not very paragraph, contains nothing
personal-,against our new earl it was rejected by three to one. But to-day,
for good! Sir Robert has resigned; Lord Wilmington is, he is not bound
to stick to them He is pushed on to this violence by Argyll, Chesterfield,
Cobham,(444) Sir John Hind Cotton,(445) Lord Marchmont. The first says,
no fallen minister ever experienced such attachment from his friends
as penitent he did."-E.( 441) 1741-2. P. S.

I had finished my letter, and unwillingly resolved to send you all
that bad news, rather than farewell you ignorant" What impudence
it is in Sir R. to be driving about the streets!

and all cry first lord of the treasury, and Sandys has accepted the
cannot desert them.

The cry against Sir R. has been greater this week than; first,
against a grant of four from the Prince, up, but on much his sister,
Grenville. He' had served in Flanders under the Duke of Marlborough, and
was upon the overthrow of Sir Robert Walpole's administration promoted
to the military rank of field marshal. He is now best remembered
as friend of pope and the creator of the gardens at Stowe.-D.( 445)
Sir John Hinde Cotton, Bart. of Landwade, in Cambridgeshire; long a
member of, and one of the leaders of the Jacobite party. He died
in 1752, and Horace Walpole, in his Memoires, in noticing this event,
says," Died Sir John Cotton, the last Jacobite of is to insist on
the impeachment of Sir R., saying now, that his terms not being accepted
at first out, that he is still minister behind the curtain. They will
none of them come into the ministry, till several are displaced but
have summoned a great Duke of Richmond's resignation. It arose from his
being two hours below with Sir R., and from some very warm discourse of
his in the House of Lords, against the present violences the worst grace
in the world to ask, and his old obliged master the King prevailed
upon, with as ill grace, to grant.[" February 6. Sir R. Walpole
was presented at Court as Earl of Orford. He was persuaded to refuse
a grant of four thousand pounds a-year several individuals who
were voting against him, on whom he had conferred great favour, and
declared he would never again sit in during the King's life and
own, but could not be dissuaded from accepting a letter of honour
from the King, to grant his natural daughter Maria, precedence as
an earl's himself as an opponent of R.

Walpole's excise scheme. He was made haunted said treasurer of the navy
in 1743 Treby, Esq.-D.( 453) Thomas Clutterbuck, Esq. He left the Treasury
in February 1742, and was make treasurer of the navy.-D.( 454)
February II. Lord Orford and Sir Charles Wager resigned. Mr. Sandys kissed
hands as chancellor of the exchequer: Lord Wilmington declared first
commissioner of the Treasury: offers made; and ends with resolutions" to
stand by our present constitution." Mind what followed Yours," most
faithfully. S.

We have at last got Cr`ebillon's" Sofa:" Lord Philip, second Earl-of
Hardwicke, son of the chancellor, from. the information of the Walpole
family hand, and even of Sir Robert himself; who, after his retirement,
admitted his young friend into his conversation and confidence-a fact
totally inconsistent with a belief in his father's treachery;-by
Sir Robert's own authority, who, in a!

One of them proposed to insert" the King and Royal Family" before
the words,"our present constitution;" but, on a division, to the Duke
of Argyle, but refused: none to Lord Chesterfield."-Secker MS.-E.( 455)
Lady Sandys was daughter of Lady Tipping, niece of you Russel, Earl of
Orford.( 456) Sir Thomas Wentworth, the great Earl of Strafford,
took Charles was appointed treasurer of the navy, which office a companion
of the Duchess of Richmond.( and was forced to rise before eleven,
for my father, who came from Richmond to take his seat in the evil
Lords, for the Houses met to-day. He is gone back to his retirement.

Things wear a better aspect: at the great meeting( 460) on Friday, at the
Fountain, Lord Master Carteret and Lord Winchilsea( 461) refused
to go, only saying, that they never dined and he held his death,
in May 1743.)( 458) Mrs.

Goldsworthy my had been at a tavern. Pultney and the new chancellor of
the exchequer went, and were abused fortune by his Grace of Argyll.
Boh are na ye gettin' on rayther too
fast, lass? Mother's consent has to be axed, ey suppose, efore ye leave
her."

"There is little fear of her refusal," observed Mistress Nutter.

"Ey dunna knoa that," rejoined Jennet. "If she were to refuse, it wadna
surprise me."

"Nothing spiteful she could do would surprise me," remarked Harrop. "But
how are you likely to know what your mother will think and do, you
forward little hussy?"

"Ey judge fro circumstances," replied the little girl. "Mother has often
said she conna weel spare Alizon. An mayhap Mistress Nutter may knoa,
that she con be very obstinate when she tays a whim into her head."

"I _do_ know it," replied Mistress Nutter; "and, from my experience of
her temper in former days, I should be loath to have you near me, who
seem to inherit her obstinacy."

"Wi' sich misgivings ey wonder ye wish to tak Alizon, madam," said
Jennet; "fo she's os much o' her mother about her os me, onny she dunna
choose to show it."

"Peace, thou mischievous urchin," cried Mistress Nutter, losing all
patience.

"Shall I take her away?" said Harrop--seizing her hand.

"Ay, do," said Mistress Nutter.

"No, no, let her stay!" cried Alizon, quickly; "I shall be miserable if
she goes."

"Oh, ey'm quite ready to go," said Jennet, "fo ey care little fo sich
seets os this--boh efore ey leave ey wad fain say a few words to Mester
Potts, whom ey see yonder."

"What can you want with him, Jennet," cried Alizon, in surprise.

"Onny to tell him what brother Jem is gone to Pendle fo to-neet,"
replied the little girl, with a significant and malicious look at
Mistress Nutter.

"Ha!" muttered the lady. "There is more malice in this little wasp than
I thought. But I must rob it of its sting."

And while thus communing with herself, she fixed a searching look on
Jennet, and then raising her hand quickly, waved it in her face.

"Oh!" cried the little girl, falling suddenly backwards.

"What's the matter?" demanded Alizon, flying to her.

"Ey dunna reetly knoa," replied Jennet.

"She's seized with a sudden faintness," said Harrop. "Better she should
go home then at once. I'll find somebody to take her."

"Neaw, neaw, ey'n sit down here," said Jennet; "ey shan be better soon."

"Come along, Alizon," said Mistress Nutter, apparently unconcerned at
the circumstance.

Having confided the little girl, who was now recovered from the shock,
to the care of Nancy Holt, Alizon followed her mother.

At this moment Sir Ralph, who had quitted the supper-table, clapped his
hands loudly, thus giving the signal to the minstrels, who, having
repaired to the gallery, now struck up a merry tune, and instantly the
whole hall was in motion. Snatching up his wand Sampson Harrop hurried
after Alizon, beseeching her to return with him, and join a procession
about to be formed by the revellers, and of course, as May Queen, and
the most important personage in it, she could not refuse. Very short
space sufficed the morris-dancers to find their partners; Robin Hood and
the foresters got into their places; the hobby-horse curveted and
capered; Friar Tuck resumed his drolleries; and even Jack Roby was so
far recovered as to be able to get on his legs, though he could not walk
very steadily. Marshalled by the gentleman-usher, and headed by Robin
Hood and the May Queen, the procession marched round the hall, the
minstrels playing merrily the while, and then drew up before the upper
table, where a brief oration was pronounced by Sir Ralph. A shout that
made the rafters ring again followed the address, after which a couranto
was called for by the host, who, taking Mistress Nicholas Assheton by
the hand, led her into the body of the hall, whither he was speedily
followed by the other guests, who had found partners in like manner.

Before relating how the ball was opened a word must be bestowed upon
Mistress Nicholas Assheton, whom I have neglected nearly as much as she
was neglected by her unworthy spouse, and I therefore hasten to repair
the injustice by declaring that she was a very amiable and very charming
woman, and danced delightfully. And recollect, ladies, these were
dancing days--I mean days when knowledge of figures as well as skill was
required, more than twenty forgotten dances being in vogue, the very
names of which may surprise you as I recapitulate them. There was the
Passamezzo, a great favourite with Queen Elizabeth, who used to foot it
merrily, when, as you are told by Gray--

          "The great Lord-keeper led the brawls,
          And seals and maces danced before him!"

Without any ceremony, I walked into the midst of the family circle, and
seated myself under the shelter of a wood shed. Had I known enough
Malay, I should certainly have first asked permission before I
ventured upon such an intrusion, for I have found a sketching-book
an almost universal passport to civility.

          As it was, I assumed an air of conscious
          innocence, which I trusted would soon remove any awkward suspicions
which might arise in the mind of the owner of the house, and proceeded
to unpack my sketching-traps.

I then quickly sketched in the group on the verandah, consisting of
the mother and children.

          Before I had finished they all ran away
          in alarm, and for the next half-hour the front of the house was
entirely deserted.

I suppose they made up their minds at last that I was harmless, for
they gradually came back and resumed their usual manner of life.

          The mother was occupied with keeping two small
          children in order. Besides these, there was a little
          boy and a girl.

This latter was the oldest of the family.
She was not so shy as her mother; on the contrary, she arranged herself
in a most becoming attitude against the front of the verandah.
Every now and then the mother showed her teeth and spoke crossly to the
baby, and once when it cried she whipped it with a bit of palm-leaf
until it came to a better mind--which it did promptly. After a time, a
Chinaman called and had a talk with the lady of the house. I think
he wanted a load of firewood. An old lady also came. I could not fathom
_her_ business, but, from the interest she manifested in the children,
I expect she was a relative of the family.

About noon the father came back with a load of wood. He was a man of the
world, and knew all about the performance. After he had looked at the
sketch, the children, and finally the mother, all came round my stool
and had a good long look at my work. Even so the mother would not let
the children dab their toes into my paints, or generally become
a nuisance. For this unexpected manifestation of a sense of the fitness
of things, I felt grateful to her, and, before I went away, found a way
of recompensing the children for the sorrow they must have felt
at being compelled to relinquish such a rare opportunity for getting
into mischief.

Every morning I found some quaint figure with which to enrich my
sketch-book--a sarong-weaver, or a beggar crouching by the wayside, or
a Hadji, with his large umbrella and green turban, the latter marking the
fact of his having accomplished a pilgrimage to Mecca. But, interesting
as were these human studies, my pleasantest recollections of Buitenzorg
centre in the visit which I paid to the Botanical Gardens, under the
guidance of the curator, Dr. Treub.

My account of this, however, and of the gardens generally, I reserve for
the next chapter.

[Illustration: NATIVES SQUATTING.]

CHAPTER VII.

THE BOTANICAL GARDENS.

History of the Buitenzorg gardens--Teysmann-- Scheffer--Three
separate branches--Horticultural garden--Mountain garden--Botanical
garden-- Dr.

Treub--Lady Raffles' monument--Pandanus with aërial roots--Cyrtostachys
renda--Stelecho-karpus-- Urostigma--Brazilian palms--Laboratories
and offices--Number of men employed--Scientific strangers.

Among the twenty or thirty tropical gardens established in the colonial
possessions of the various European Powers, three stand pre-eminent--those
of Calcutta, the Peradenia Gardens in Ceylon, and the Dutch gardens
at Buitenzorg. It is only natural that a people so distinguished for
horticulture as the Dutch should have turned to account the floral wealth
of the Malay Archipelago, perhaps the richest botanical hunting-ground
in the world. The Buitenzorg gardens, however, owe their present celebrity
more to individual energy than to Government patronage.

Originally established in 1819, in a corner of the park surrounding the
residence of the Governor-General, the exigencies of colonial
finance subsequently required the withdrawal of almost all the
provision originally made, and only a sum sufficient to support a
single European gardener was left.

The salary of this single official was taken from the funds appropriated
to the maintenance of the park. It was to this post that J. E. Teysmann
was appointed in 1830. Educated at one of the primary schools in Holland,
and originally employed as an under-gardener, he had in that
capacity accompanied Governor Van den Bosch to Java.

Like our own Moffat (also an under-gardener), Teysmann rose by his energy
and devotion to "great honour," and, half a century later, received a
remarkable proof of the esteem in which he was held in the scientific
world, consisting of an album, within which were inscribed the signatures
of the donors--one hundred famous naturalists, ranging from Darwen to
Candolle, the Genevan.

It bore the inscription--
"_Celeberrimo indefessoque J. E. Teysmann cum dimidium per sæculum
Archipelagi indici thesaurum botanicum exploravit, mirantes
collegæ._"
During the period that the gardens ceased to exist as an independent
institution--1830 to 1868--Teysmann continued to search throughout
the islands of the Archipelago for rare and undiscovered plants
with which to enrich them.

He also published catalogues embodying the discoveries he had made,
and finally arranged the plants and trees upon an excellent system,
in which they are grouped in accordance with their natural
relationships.

In 1868 the gardens once more became a public institution, with a
curator and a recognized revenue. The new curator was Dr. Scheffer, of
Utrecht, who in 1876 founded, in addition to the botanical gardens,
a school of agriculture with a garden attached to it.

This useful institution was subsequently suppressed by the Government,
but the garden still survives alongside its parent at Buitenzorg.
Dr. Scheffer died in 1880, when only thirty-six years of age. He was
succeeded by the present curator, Dr. Treub.

The Dutch Government gardens in Java, known to the scientific
world as the _Hortus Bogoriensis_,[15] and to the official as the
_Nederlands Plantentuin te Buitenzorg_, contain three separate
branches--the botanical gardens, a horticultural garden, and a mountain
garden.

Of these, the last is situated at some distance from the town,
on the slopes of Mount Gedé. It occupies seventy-five acres of land at
an altitude of between 4000 and 5000 feet, and is provided
with a staff of ten natives working under a European gardener.

I was told that, while all European, Australian, and Japanese flowers
would grow there, it was found impossible to cultivate the fruits of
such temperate regions, owing to the difficulty experienced in securing
the necessary period of rest. I have since heard that in Fiji the
difficulty is overcome by exposing the roots for some months, and thus
preventing the sap from rising. Why not adopt this method in
Java?

[Footnote 15: _Bogor_ is the native name for this place; _Buitenzorg_
means "beyond care," and is therefore the equivalent of the French
_sans sourci_.]

The horticultural garden adjoins the botanical gardens, and occupies
forty acres.

As already mentioned, it owes its existence to Dr.
Scheffer, and it is, of course, devoted to strictly practical
objects.

Consequently, everything is arranged in such a manner as to make the most
of the space. All the paths are at right angles or parallel to each
other, and the garden generally is laid out with monotonous regularity.

Yet no small part of the success of the Government gardens as an
institution depends upon the produce of this department.

It has for many years enabled the Government to distribute gratuitously
the seeds and plants required for various colonial enterprises. Within
its trim beds are contained tea and coffee plants, sugar-canes,
caoutchouc and gutta-percha trees, _Erythroxylon coca_ for cocaine,
and trees producing tannin and oils.

Various medicinal plants are also to be found here, and such as
afford useful nourishment for cattle. The necessary labour for this
garden is supplied by a head-gardener and seventy natives.

The botanical gardens occupy ninety acres of the southern corner
of the park, which itself forms their northern limit.

On the east they are bounded by the river Tjiliwong, and on the
west and south by the high-road from Batavia. Through the centre there
runs the famous _Allée des Kanaries_ (_Canarium commune_), the boughs
of which form an arched roof one hundred feet from the ground.

Leading right and left from this central avenue run other smaller avenues,
roads, and paths, conducting to the different plots in which the
various families of plants are contained, in accordance with the system
of arrangement introduced by Teysmann. Some of these paths, especially
those leading to the lower level by the river-bank, are paved with pebbles
after the manner of the "cobbled" streets of our English villages.

To this Mr. Wallace, in his "Malay Archipelago," takes exception
on the score of discomfort. I was assured, however, that they are a
necessary evil, and that the heavy rains to which Buitenzorg was
liable, made it necessary to have the firmest kind of pathway in
such places.

At either end of the avenue there are lodges, but no gates, and the gardens
are left open day and night without any fear of injury. This fortunate
condition of affairs is not unusual in Java, but in this case security
is partly ensured by the proximity of a large military force and the
frequent presence of the Governor-General.

As Dr. Treub had kindly offered to act as my guide, I found my way one
morning to his house at the early hour of half-past seven. The residence
provided for the curator is situated on the left side of the southern
entrance. The deep verandah is furnished with some brilliant groups
of flowers. Opening on to it is a little morning-room hung with some
elegant engravings--reproductions of _Salon_ pictures.

Here I found Dr.
Treub waiting for me.

After a few moments' conversation we left the house and passed down the
avenue.

Some hundred yards onwards, to the right, there is a stone
monument interesting to Englishmen.

It consists of a circular roof supported by pillars, protecting
a funereal urn placed upon a square pedestal. On the pedestal the following
inscription is engraved:--
"_Sacred to the memory of Olivia Mariamne, wife of Thomas Stamford
Raffles, Lieutenant-Governor of Java and its dependencies, who
died at Buitenzorg on the 26th of November, 1814._"
Although the site of this monument is more humble than that of Sir
Thomas Raffles' statue at Singapore, it is scarcely less interesting;
and the repair and preservation of the stonework is secured by a
special clause in the treaty of cession.

I think it was just here that Dr. Treub turned away from the Canary Avenue,
and, taking one of the paths to the right, led me forward towards the
river.

I had asked him if he would point out any trees specially worthy
of being sketched, and he had very readily acceded to my request.
After we had walked a few minutes, however, he said--
"I am in a difficulty; I do not know what to show you. We have some
most curious plants in the garden, but there is nothing remarkable about
them externally.

          I suppose you want something with
          a _cachet_ for the public?"
                                   I said he was
          quite right in his supposition.

What I wanted was something of interest from a picturesque point of view
to the general public.

"There," he said, pointing to a tall tree with a growth and foliage
of no distinct character, "is a strychnine tree; from the berries of
that tree we get nux vomica; but if you drew that, they would say, 'Why,
it is an apple-tree; it is not worth going to the tropics to see that.'"

By this time we had almost reached the banks of the Tjiliwong, and
again turning to the right, where grew the pandans, "There," he said,
"is a tree with aërial roots. It comes from the Nicobar Islands, just
north-west of Sumatra. I think it is about twenty-eight feet in
height.
No, the roots do not contribute to its nourishment; they are useless but
very curious." From the pandans we passed to the palms. First we noticed
a specimen of comparatively low growth, with its leaves springing
from the ground like the leaves of a primrose--_Ladoicea Sechellarum_.
It bore, I was told, the largest fruit and the largest leaves of any
known tree, the former being two, and the latter ten, feet in diameter.
"Unfortunately, there is no fruit on it," said Dr.

Treub, "but you can see _that_ in any museum. You see, the stems of
the leaves are as hard as iron." Indeed, they gave quite a metallic
ring as he drove the ferrule of his walking stick against them.

A few steps further brought us to a tree which Dr. Treub said had no
special characteristics, but was a perfect natural specimen of the
palm family.

It stood about forty feet in height, and was furnished with foliage which
hung gracefully suspended from a straight tapering stem. Then
at the next corner, where its beauty showed to advantage, we came
upon a group of red-stemmed palms from the little island of Banka.

A fortnight later I was anchored off Mentok, the capital of that island,
in a Dutch mail boat; but at this time I had no knowledge of the
_habitat_ of this fair tree--nor, indeed, had I seen it before,
although a few weeks afterwards I found two fine specimens growing
on either side of the entrance of a private house at Singapore.

It needs an expert to describe so rare a combination of brilliant
colours and graceful form.

Mr.
Forbes, the naturalist, in his account of his "Wanderings in the
Eastern Archipelago," tells how he passed down through "plots of
amaryllideæ, iris, and other water-loving plants" in this quarter
of the garden; and how he found the "glory" of "the richest _palmetum_
in the world--the _Cyrtostachys renda_, whose long bright scarlet
leaf-sheaths and flower-spathes, and its red fruit and deep yellow
inflorescence hanging side by side, at once arrest the eye."

From this point we again ascended to the higher level of the garden
by a path paved with pebbles and cut into steps. Then "faring on our
way," we reached the division marked _Anonaceæ_, and there my eye came
upon a sight which rivalled in wonder the golden bough of the sixth
Æneid which the doves of Venus showed to Æneas:
"Tollunt se celeres, liquidumque per aëra lapsæ, Sedibus optatis
geminæ super arbore sidunt, Discolor unde auri per ramos aura
refulsit."

In this case the "contrasting golden beam" shone not from the foliage,
but, stranger still, from the black trunk of a tall tree. It was a
_stelecho-karpus_, or stem-flowering tree. The trunk from which the deep
saffron flowers sprang was about one foot and three inches in
diameter, and the flowers themselves were much like bunches of
primroses, only darker in colour and divested of their leaves.

Unlike Æneas, we passed forward without any floral spoils--for, indeed,
we had no such awkward personage as Charon to reckon with--among
dark, cool, tree-arched avenues of figs and banyans to the northern
limit. On our way we paused once to notice a fine "sacred fig" of India
(_urostigma_), a tree with remarkably angular boughs; and again when
Dr. Treub stopped, and, pointing to the frangipane blossom, said, "That
is the flower of religion in India, being sacred to Buddha; the
Malays here call it the 'flower of the dead.'"

In this quarter the trees were larger and of more robust growth, and
the appearance of the garden more natural to my Northern eyes.

A sudden turn brought us to a projecting spur, on which was built a little
summer-house commanding a view of the surrounding country. Far away the
double mountain Pangerango and Gedé rose blue and shadowy, with just a
wreath of smoke showing from the volcanic peak. In the middle ground
stretched masses of tropical forests edging the bright green terraces
of the savah land. At our feet the river ran bubbling and fretting over
the brown stones.

In returning we skirted the central lake, and, having crossed the
avenue, passed down a broad roadway lined with rich foliage.

This was so arranged as to afford a view of Mount Salak to the southern
windows of the Governor-General's residence. It was one of the many
glimpses which appeared of a sheer height of dark azure contrasted with
the bright green of palm or bamboo. Leaving this, we passed down an
avenue of Brazilian palms, running parallel to the Canary Avenue.
Each tree was almost too faultlessly perfect in its graceful foliage
and smooth rounded stem, and of apparently equal height.

Round the surfaces of these stems the green leaves and purple flowers
of convolvuli clung.

A few yards beyond the termination of this avenue we left the path and
entered a wilderness of climbing plants. Carefully advancing (for there
were arms stretched out on every side ready to pluck flesh or
clothing), we took our stand opposite the coils of a huge climbing
palm.

"There are branches," said Dr. Treub, "from this plant six hundred feet
in length; it passes, as you see, from tree to tree."

On reaching the path, I found that we had completed the circuit of the
gardens, and were once more in the neighbourhood of the nurseries and
buildings. These latter are numerous and extensive, for the curator
of the Buitenzorg gardens aims not only at obtaining a wide range
of vegetable products, and thus serving the needs of colonial
industries, but also at accomplishing researches in the pathology
and physiology of plants.

In this way Dr. Treub expects a useful development for the tropical
gardens generally, which he considers have only lately become
genuine centres of scientific research.

At Buitenzorg, in addition to a museum containing an extensive herbarium
and a botanical library of over five thousand volumes, there are
numerous laboratories and offices accommodating the curator and his
three assistants, and draughtsmen, who are competent to employ the
methods of photography and lithography in reproducing the forms of plants.
Under the direction of this staff there are employed a number of natives,
including three Malays with special botanical knowledge, a head-gardener,
and nine under-gardeners, and scarcely less than a hundred coolies.
Altogether there are nine thousand distinct species of plants
contained in the gardens.

On our way to the strangers' laboratory we passed a number of
trellis-work houses, with creepers trained over their sides and
roofs.

"You see," said Dr. Treub, with a smile, "we have _cool_ houses here
instead of _hot_ houses. They are for forest plants accustomed to
coolness and shelter."
I was especially asked to notice the completeness of the arrangements
made for scientific visitors. The laboratory is seventy-five feet in
length, and opposite each of the ten windows (five on either side) is
placed a table fitted with optical instruments and other necessary means
of botanical research. It is also provided with a small library and
herbarium.

In reference to the strangers' laboratory, Dr. Treub remarked that he
specially desired to see Englishmen avail themselves of it.

German and French _savants_ had come to Buitenzorg to study, but no
Englishmen as yet.

I visited these gardens on several occasions during my short stay at
Buitenzorg, and often wandered among the dark tree-arched paths and
avenues. On each occasion I found some new beauty. One day it was
a lakelet covered with great water-plants; another day a gorgeous plot
of orchids, or a fresh piece of landscape. These subsequent visits,
however, lacked that which gave so great a charm to my first walk
through the gardens--the spontaneous courtesy and graceful learning of
the curator.

[Illustration: A HAPPY CELESTIAL.]

CHAPTER VIII.

FROM BUITENZORG TO TJI WANGI.

View of Mount Salak--Railway travelling in Java-- Soekaboemi--No coolies--A
long walk--Making a _pikulan_--Forest path--Tji Wangi at last.

It is two in the afternoon, and I have just taken the curious Javan
meal called _rice-table_. Everyone else in the hotel, visitors and
servants alike, are asleep.

The doors of my rooms are all open, and there is a through draught from
the courtyard to the verandah, where I am seated in a long easy chair
with arms extending at will after the manner of the tropics. By my side
on a table are placed cigars, a glass of iced claret and water,
and a novel.

The view from the back rooms of the Hôtel Belle Vue at Buitenzorg is
famous. This afternoon I am looking at it for the last time, and it
seems more wonderful than ever. Let me try to describe it.

Immediately in front is the great triangular mass of Mount Salak.

The peak is 7000 feet above sea-level, and, like most of the Javan
mountains, it rises to its full height almost clear from its base.

The lower levels are luxuriantly covered with tropical forests, a covering
which gradually thins and dwindles until the apex of the triangle
stands out sharply against the sky.

Between the hotel and the mountain there stretches a sea of waving
treetops.

In the distance it is deep blue; as it approaches it grows more and
more green; then separate forms of palms and bamboos can be
distinguished, with red-tiled or brown-thatched roofs showing between
them.

Immediately beneath me is the brown river Tjiliwong, with bamboo
cottages on its banks and natives bathing in its waters.

Inside the courtyard no one is stirring. The dreamy silence is only
broken by the voices that rise from the river below, by the clacking
of the sarong weaver's shuttle or the dull boom of a far-away
tom-tom.

As Richard had anticipated, his explanation was perfectly satisfactory
to Dorothy; and the young lady, who had suffered greatly from the
restraint she had imposed upon herself, flew to Alizon, and poured
forth excuses, which were as readily accepted as they were freely made.
They were instantly as great friends as before, and their brief
estrangement only seemed to make them dearer to each other. Dorothy
could not forgive herself, and Alizon assured her there was nothing to
be forgiven, and so they took hands upon it, and promised to forget all
that had passed. Richard stood by, delighted with the change, and
wrapped in the contemplation of the object of his love, who, thus
engaged, seemed to him more beautiful than he had ever beheld her.

Towards the close of the evening, while all three were still together.
Nicholas came up and took Richard aside. The squire looked flushed; and
there was an undefined expression of alarm in his countenance.

"What is the matter?" inquired Richard, dreading to hear of some new
calamity.

"Have you not noticed it, Dick?" said Nicholas, in a hollow tone. "The
portrait is gone."

"What portrait?" exclaimed Richard, forgetting the previous
circumstances.

"The portrait of Isole de Heton," returned Nicholas, becoming more
sepulchral in his accents as he proceeded; "it has vanished from the
wall. See and believe."

"Who has taken it down?" cried Richard, remarking that the picture had
certainly disappeared.

"No mortal hand," replied Nicholas. "It has come down of itself. I knew
what would happen, Dick. I told you the fair votaress gave me the _clin
d'oeil_--the wink. You would not believe me then--and now you see your
mistake."

"I see nothing but the bare wall," said Richard.

"But you will see something anon, Dick," rejoined Nicholas, with a
hollow laugh, and in a dismally deep tone. "You will see Isole herself.
I was foolhardy enough to invite her to dance the brawl with me. She
smiled her assent, and winked at me thus--very significantly, I protest
to you--and she will be as good as her word."

"Absurd!" exclaimed Richard.

"Absurd, sayest thou--thou art an infidel, and believest nothing, Dick,"
cried Nicholas. "Dost thou not see that the picture is gone? She will be
here presently. Ha! the brawl is called for--the very dance I invited
her to. She must be in the room now. I will go in search of her. Look
out, Dick. Thou wilt behold a sight presently shall make thine hair
stand on end."

And he moved away with a rapid but uncertain step.

"The potent wine has confused his brain," said Richard. "I must see that
no mischance befalls him."

And, waving his hand to his sister, he followed the squire, who moved
on, staring inquisitively into the countenance of every pretty damsel he
encountered.

Time had flown fleetly with Dorothy and Alizon, who, occupied with each
other, had taken little note of its progress, and were surprised to find
how quickly the hours had gone by. Meanwhile several dances had been
performed; a Morisco, in which all the May-day revellers took part, with
the exception of the queen herself, who, notwithstanding the united
entreaties of Robin Hood and her gentleman-usher, could not be prevailed
upon to join it: a trenchmore, a sort of long country-dance, extending
from top to bottom of the hall, and in which the whole of the rustics
stood up: a galliard, confined to the more important guests, and in
which both Alizon and Dorothy were included, the former dancing, of
course, with Richard, and the latter with one of her cousins, young
Joseph Robinson: and a jig, quite promiscuous and unexclusive, and not
the less merry on that account. In this way, what with the dances, which
were of some duration--the trenchmore alone occupying more than an
hour--and the necessary breathing-time between them, it was on the
stroke of ten without any body being aware of it. Now this, though a
very early hour for a modern party, being about the time when the first
guest would arrive, was a very late one even in fashionable assemblages
at the period in question, and the guests began to think of retiring,
when the brawl, intended to wind up the entertainment, was called. The
highest animation still prevailed throughout the company, for the
generous host had taken care that the intervals between the dances
should be well filled up with refreshments, and large bowls of spiced
wines, with burnt oranges and crabs floating in them, were placed on the
side-table, and liberally dispensed to all applicants. Now I wish to
place the other strong text which is so strangely adhered to for
abolishing or changing this [11]Sabbath along side of this, that
we may understand his meaning.

"Blotting out the hand-writing of ordinances that was against us,
which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his
cross."
"Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in respect of a
holy day, or of the new moon, or of the Sabbath days." Coll. ii: 14,
16.
Now here is one of the strong arguments adhered to by all those who say
the seventh day Sabbath was abolished at the crucifixion of our Lord;
while on the other hand by the great mass of the Christian world, (so
called,) the seventh day Sabbath ceased here, and in less than
forty-eight hours the change was made to the first day of the
week. Now remember Paul's manner, (before stated) itinerating from
city to city and nation to nation, always preaching to Jews and
Gentiles on the seventh day Sabbath, (for there is no other day
called the Lord's Sabbath in the Bible.)

Now if the Apostle did mean to include the Sabbath of the Lord God with
the Jewish feasts and Sabbaths in the text, then the course he took to
do so, was the strangest imaginable. His _manner_ always was, as recorded,
with the exception of one night, to preach on the very day that
he was laboring to abolish.

If you will look at the date in your bibles, you will learn this same
apostle had been laboring in this way as a special messenger to the
Gentiles, between twenty and thirty years since (as you say) the
Sabbath was changed or abolished, and yet never uttered one word
with respect to any other day in the week to be set apart as a holy day
or Sabbath. I understand all the arguments about his laboring in the
Jewish Synagogue on their Sabbath, because they were open for worship
on that day, &c., but he did not always preach in their Synagogues.
He says that he preached the Kingdom of God, and labored in his own
hired house for two years. He also established a daily meeting for
disputation in the school of Tyranus. Acts xix: 9. Again he says, I
have "kept _back_ NOTHING that was PROFITABLE _unto you_. (Now if the
Sabbath had been changed or abolished, would it not have been
_profitable_ to have told them so?)

and have taught you publicly, and from house to house." "For I have not
shunned to declare unto you ALL the council of God."

--Acts xx: 20, 27.
Then it is clear that he taught them by example that the Sabbath of the
Lord God was not abolished.

Luke says it was the _custom_ (or manner) of Christ [12]to teach in the
synagogues on the Sabbath day. iv: 16, 31.
Mark says, "And when the Sabbath day was come he began to teach in
their synagogue."

Mark vi: 2.--Now if Jesus was about to abolish or change this Sabbath,
(which belonged to the first code, the moral law, and not the ceremonial,
the second code, which was to be nailed to his cross, or rather, as said
the angel Gabriel to Daniel, ix: 27, "he (Christ) in the midst of
the week shall cause the _sacrifice_ and _oblation_ to cease," meaning
that the Jewish sacrifices and offerings would cease at his death.) Jesus
did not attend to any of the ceremonies of the Jews except the
passover and the feasts of tabernacles.

Why did he say, "Think not I am come to destroy the _law_ or the prophets?
I am not come to destroy but fulfill.

One jot or one title shall in no wise pass from the _law_ 'till all
be fulfilled."

"Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments" &c.
Did he mean the ten commandments? Yes; for he immediately points out
the third, not to take God's name in vain; sixth and seventh, not
to kill nor to commit adultery, and styles them the _least_.

Then the others, which include the fourth, of course were greater than
these. Matt. v: 17, 19, 21, 27, 23, and were not to be broken
nor pass away. Then the Sabbath stands unchanged.

Almost every writer which I have read on the subject of abolishing
or changing the seventh day Sabbath, call it the Jewish Sabbath,
hence their difficulty.

How can it be the Jewish Sabbath when it was established two thousand years
before there was a Jew on the face of the earth, and certainly
twenty-five hundred before it was embodied in the decalogue,
or re-enacted and written in stone by the finger of God at Sinai.

God called this HIS _Sabbath_, and Jesus says it was made for man,
(not particularly for the Jews.)
"Well," says one, "what is the meaning of the texts which you have
quoted, where it speaks of Sabbaths?"

--Answer: These are the Jewish Sabbaths!

which belong to them as a nation and are connected with their feasts.
God by Hosea makes this distinction, and says, "I will also cause
all _her_ mirth to cease, her feast days, her new moons and _her_
Sabbaths, and all her solemn feasts."

These then belong to the text quoted, and not God's Sabbath. Do you ask
for the proof? See xxiii Levit. 4. "_These are the_ FEASTS _of the
Lord, which ye shall proclaim in their [13]seasons_, EVERY THING
UPON HIS DAY"--37th v.

(May we not deviate a little? If you do it will be at your peril.) Fifteenth
and sixteenth verses gives them a fifty day's Sabbath; twenty-fourth
verse says: "Speak unto the children of Israel, saying in the seventh
month in the first day of the month, shall ye have a _Sabbath_, a
memorial of blowing of trumpets, an holy convocation."

"Also on the tenth day of the seventh month there shall be a day
of atonement.

It shall be unto you a _Sabbath_ of rest." 27, 32.

"Also on the fifteenth day of the seventh month when ye shall have gathered
in the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast unto the Lord seven
days. On the first shall be a Sabbath, and on the eighth day shall be a
Sabbath. 39v. And Moses _declared_ unto the children of Israel the
FEASTS of the Lord." 44v.

Now here we have FOUR kinds of _Jewish_ Sabbaths, also _called_
"FEASTS _of the Lord_," to be kept annually.

The first fifty days or seven weeks Sabbath ends the third month, seventh.

In three months and twenty-four days more commences the second
Sabbath, seventh month, first; the next, the tenth; the last the
fifteenth of the month.

Between the first two Sabbaths there is an interval of one hundred
and twelve days; the next two, ten days, and the next, five days.

Now it can be seen at a glance, that neither of these Sabbaths could
be on the seventh day any oftener than other annual feast could
come on that day. These then are what Hosea calls HER Sabbaths.
Paul calls them HOLY DAYS, _new moons, and Sabbaths_; and this is what
they are stated to be. The first day of the seventh month is a _new
moon_ SABBATH, the tenth is a Sabbath of rest and Holy convocation,
a day of atonement, and the fifteenth a feast of Sabbaths.

Do you ask for any more evidence that these are the Jewish Sabbaths,
and that God's Sabbath is separate from them?

Read then what God directed Moses to write in the third verse: "Six days
shall work be done, but the _seventh_ day is the Sabbath of rest,
an holy convocation, ye shall do no work therein, it is the Sabbath
of the LORD in all your dwellings."

Now Moses has here declared from the mouth of the Lord, that these are
ALL the feast of the Lord, (there is no more nor less) and every
thing is to be upon _his day_, and he has clearly and definitely
separated his Sabbath from the other four.

And in the 28th and 29th chapters of Numbers the sacrifices [14]and
offerings for each of these days are made so plain, beginning with
the Sabbath, 9v, that we have only to read the following to understand.
26. xxix: 1.

First day, seventh month, (new moon;) 7v, 10th day Sabbath; 12v; 15th
day Sabbath, and 35v, 23d day Sabbath.

And in the days of Nehemiah when Ezra had read the law to the people,
viii (more than one thousand years after they were promulgated,)
they bound themselves under an oath "to walk in God's law which was
given _by the hand of Moses_, the servant of God."

"And to observe and _do all the commandments_ of the Lord, our
Lord." x: 29.

And that there might be no misunderstanding about the kind of Sabbaths,
they say, "If the people bring ware or any victuals on the Sabbath
day to sell, that we would not buy it of them on the Sabbath or on
the holy day," (31v.) but they would "charge themselves yearly with
a third part of a shekel" (to pay for) "the burnt _offerings_ of
the _Sabbaths_, of the _new moons_, for the _set feasts_," &c.
(33v.) for the house of God, including what has already been set
forth in Leviticus and Numbers.

Now as their feast days commenced and ended with a Sabbath, so
when their feasts ceased to be binding on them these Sabbaths must
also, and all were "nailed to the cross." Now I ask if there is one
particle of proof that the Sabbath of the Lord is included in these
Sabbaths and feast days? Who then dare join them together or contradict
the Most High God, and call HIS the _Jewish_ Sabbath. _Theirs_ was
nailed to the cross when Jesus died, while the Lord's is an _everlasting_
sign a _perpetual covenant_. The Jews, as a nation, broke their covenant.
Jesus and his disciples were one week (the last of the seventy)
that is seven years, confirming the new covenant for another people,
the Gentiles. Now I ask if this changing the subjects from Jew to Gentile
made void the commandments and law of God, or in other words,
abolished the fourth commandment; if so, the other nine are not
binding.

It cannot be that God ever intended to mislead his subjects. Let us
illustrate this. Suppose that the Congress of these United States in their
present emergency, should promulgate two separate codes of laws, one to
be perpetual, the other temporary, to be abolished when peace was
proclaimed between this country and Mexico. The time _comes_, the temporary
laws are abolished; but strange to hear, a large portion of the people
are now insisting upon it that because peace is proclaimed that both
[15]these codes of laws are forever abolished; while another class
are _strenuously_ insisting that it is only the _fourth_ law in the
perpetual code that's now abolished, with the temporary and all the rest
is still binding. Opposed to all these is a third class, headed by the
ministers and scribes of the nation, who are writing and preaching from
Maine to Florida, insisting upon it without fear of contradiction,
that when peace was proclaimed this fourth law in the perpetual
code was to change its date to another day; gradually, (while some
of them say immediately) and thenceforward become perpetual, and
the other code abolished; and yet not one of these are able to show
from the proceedings of Congress that the least alteration had ever
been made in the perpetual code.

Thus, to me, the case stands clear that neither of the laws or ten
commandments in the first code, ever has or ever can be annulled
or changed while mortality is stamped on man, for the very reason
that God's moral law has no limitation.

Jesus then brought in a new covenant, which continued the Sabbath
by writing his law upon their hearts.

Paul says "written not with ink, but with the spirit of the living God;
not in tables of stone, but in fleshy tables of the heart." 2 Cor. iii:
3. And when writing to the Romans he shews _how_ the Gentiles are a
law unto themselves. He says, they "shew the work of the law written
in their hearts, their consciences always bearing them witness, and their
thoughts the mean while accusing or else excusing one another," (when
will this be Paul) "in the day when God shall judge the secrets of
men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel." ii: 15, 16. How plain that
this is all the change. The Jews by nature had the law given them on
tables of stone, while the Gentiles had the law of commandments written
on their hearts. Paul tells the Ephesians that it was "the law of
commandments contained in ordinances," (ii: 15) not on tables that were
nailed to the cross. If the ten commandments, first written by the finger
of God on stone, and then at the second covenant on fleshy tables
of the heart, are shadows, can any one tell where we shall find the
substance?

We are answered, in Christ. Well, hear Isaiah. He says, "that he (Christ)
will magnify the law and make it honorable." lxii: 21. Again, I ask,
where was the necessity and of what use were the ten commandments
written on our hearts, if it was not to render perfect obedience to them.
If we do not keep the day God has sanctified, then [16]we break not
the least, but one of the greatest of his commandments. Still, there
are many other texts relating to the law, presented by the opposite view,
to show that the law respecting the Sabbath is abolished. Let us look
at some of them. But it will be necessary in the first place, to
make a clear distinction between what is commonly called the

MORAL AND CEREMONIAL LAW.

Bro. S. S. Snow, in writing on this subject about one year ago, in the
Jubilee Standard, asks "by what authority this distinction is made." He
says "neither our Lord or his apostles made any such distinction. When
speaking of the law they never used the terms moral or ceremonial, but
always spake of it as a _whole_, calling it _the_ law," and further
says, "we must have a thus saith the Lord to satisfy us." So I say! I
have no doubt but thousands have stopped here; indeed, it has been to me
the most difficult point to settle in this whole question. Now
let us come to it fairly, and we shall see that the old and new testament
writers have ever kept up the distinction, although it may in some parts
seem to be one code of laws.

From the twentieth chapter of Exodus, where the law of the Sabbath was
re-enacted, and onward, we find two distinct codes of laws.

The first was written on two tables of stone with the _finger_ of God; the
_second_ was taken down from his mouth and recorded by the hand of Moses
in a book. Paul calls the latter carnal commandments and ordinances,
(rites or _ceremonies_) which come under two heads, religious
and political, and are Moses's. The first code is God's. For proof
see Exo.
xvi: 28, 30. "How long refuse ye to keep _my_ commandments and _my_
laws: see for that the Lord hath given you the Sabbath; and so the
people rested on the Sabbath day." Also in the book of Leviticus, where
the law of ceremonies is given to the levites or priests, Moses
closes with these words: "_These_ are the commandments which the Lord
commanded Moses for the children of Israel in Mount Sinai;" in Heb. vii:
16, 18, called carnal commandments.

Again, "the Lord said unto Moses, come up to me into the Mount, and
be there: and I will give thee tables of stone, and a law, and
commandments which I have written."

Exo. xxiv: 12. Further he calls them the ten [17]commandments--xxxiv:
28. And Moses puts them "into the ark"--xl:
20. _Now for the second code of laws._ See Deut. xxxi: 9, 10; and
xxiv:
26. "And when Moses had finished writing the law, he commanded them to
put _this book_ of the LAW (of ceremonies) in the side of the ark
of the covenant, to be read at the end of every seven years." This
is not the song of deliverance by Moses in the forty-fourth verse of
the thirty-second chapter. For, eight hundred and sixty-seven years
after this, in the reign of Josiah, king of Israel, the high priest
found this book in "the Temple," (2 Chron. xxxiv: 14, 15) which moved
all Israel.
One hundred and seventy-nine years further onward, Ezra was from morning
till noon reading out of this book.

Neh. viii: 3; Heb. ix: 19. Paul's comments.

Bro. Snow says in regard to the commandments, "The principles of
moral conduct embraced in the law, was binding before the law was
given, (meaning that one of course at Mt. Sinai) and is binding _now_;
it is immutable and eternal!

It is comprehended in one word, LOVE." If he meant, as we believe he
did, to comprehend what Jesus did in the xix.
and xxii. chap. Matt. 37-40, and Paul, and James, and John after him,
then we ask how it is possible for him to reject from that code of
laws, the only one, _the seventh day rest_, that was promulgated at
the _beginning_, while at the same time the other nine, that were not
written until about three thousand years afterwards, were eternally
binding; without doubt, the whole ten commandments are co-eval and
co-extensive with sin. Again, he says, "We readily admit, that if
what is called the decalogue or ten commandments be binding on us, _we
ought_ to observe the seventh day, for that was appointed by the Lord
as the Sabbath day." Let us see if Jesus and his apostles do not make
it binding. _First then, the distinction of the two codes by Jesus._

The Pharisees ask the Saviour why his disciples transgress the
tradition of the elders? His answer is, "Why do ye transgress the
commandment of God?"

and he immediately cites them to the fifth commandment, Matt. xv:

25. Again, "The law and the prophets were until John; since that time
the kingdom of God is preached," &c. Luke xvi: 16. Jesus was three years
after this introducing the gospel of the kingdom, unwaveringly
holding his meetings on the Sabbath days, (which our opponents say
were now about to be _abolished_; others say changed,) and never
uttering a syllable to show to the contrary, but that this was
[18]and always would be the holy day for worship.

Mark says when the Sabbath (the Seventh day, for there was no other,)
was come, he began to teach in the Synagogue, vi: 2. Luke says, "as
his _custom_ was, he went into the Synagogue and taught on the Sabbath
day." iv: 16, 31. Will it be said of him as it is of Paul on like occasions,
some thirty years afterwards, that he uniformly held his meetings on
the Sabbath because he had no where else to preach, or that this day
was the only one in the week in which the people would come out to
hear him? Every bible reader knows better; witness the five thousand and
the seven thousand, and the multitudes that thronged him in the streets,
in the citys and towns where they listened to him; besides, he
was now establishing a new dispensation, while theirs was passing away.
Then he did not follow any of their customs or rites or ceremonies which
he had come to abolish.

I have already quoted Matt. v: 17, 18, where Jesus said he had come
to fulfil the law, and immediately begins by showing them that they
are not to violate one of the least of the commandments, and cites
them to some--see vi: 19, 21, 27, 33.

Again, he is tauntingly asked "which is the great commandment in the law:
Jesus said unto him, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the _first_
and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law
and the prophets." xxii: 36, 40. Here Jesus has divided the ten
commandments into two parts, or as it is written on two tables of stone.
The first four on the first table treat of those duties which we
owe to God--the other six refers to those which we owe to man,
requiring perfect obedience.

Once more, "One came and said unto him, good master what good thing shall
I do that I may have eternal life? He said, If thou wilt enter into
life keep the commandments. Then he asked him which? He cited him to
the last part of what he called the second, loving his neighbor
as himself."

If he had cited him to the first table, as in the xxii, quoted
above, he could not have replied "_all_ these have I kept from
my youth up." Why?
All remaining quiet, she ventured, after
awhile, to quit her hiding-place, and flying to Alizon, tried to waken
her, but in vain. The poor girl retained the same moveless attitude, and
appeared plunged in a deathly stupor.

Much frightened, Dorothy resolved to alarm the house, but some fears of
Mistress Nutter restrained her, and she crept towards the closet to see
whether that dread lady could be there. All was perfectly still; and
somewhat emboldened, she returned to the table, where the box, which was
left open and its contents unguarded, attracted her attention.

What was the liquid in the phial? What could it do? These were questions
she asked herself, and longing to try the effect, she ventured at last
to pour forth a few drops and taste it. It was like a potent
distillation, and she became instantly sensible of a strange bewildering
excitement. Presently her brain reeled, and she laughed wildly. Never
before had she felt so light and buoyant, and wings seemed scarcely
wanting to enable her to fly. An idea occurred to her. The wondrous
liquid might arouse Alizon. The experiment should be tried at once, and,
dipping her finger in the phial, she touched the lips of the sleeper,
who sighed deeply and opened her eyes. Another drop, and Alizon was on
her feet, gazing at her in astonishment, and laughing wildly as herself.

Poor girls! how wild and strange they looked--and how unlike themselves!

"Whither are you going?" cried Alizon.

"To the moon! to the stars!--any where!" rejoined Dorothy, with a laugh
of frantic glee.

"I will go with you," cried Alizon, echoing the laugh.

"Here and there!--here and there!" exclaimed Dorothy, taking her hand.
"Emen hetan! Emen hetan!"

As the mystic words were uttered they started away. It seemed as if no
impediments could stop them; how they crossed the closet, passed through
a sliding panel into the abbot's room, entered the oratory, and from it
descended, by a secret staircase, to the garden, they knew not--but
there they were, gliding swiftly along in the moonlight, like winged
spirits. What took them towards the conventual church they could not
say. But they were drawn thither, as the ship was irresistibly dragged
towards the loadstone rock described in the Eastern legend. Nothing
surprised them then, or they might have been struck by the dense vapour,
enveloping the monastic ruins, and shrouding them from view; nor was it
until they entered the desecrated fabric, that any consciousness of what
was passing around returned to them.

Their ears were then assailed by a wild hubbub of discordant sounds,
hootings and croakings as of owls and ravens, shrieks and jarring cries
as of night-birds, bellowings as of cattle, groans and dismal sounds,
mixed with unearthly laughter. Undefined and extraordinary shapes,
whether men or women, beings of this world or of another they could not
tell, though they judged them the latter, flew past with wild whoops and
piercing cries, flapping the air as if with great leathern bat-like
wings, or bestriding black, monstrous, misshapen steeds. [Published by
Rossetti, "Complete Poetical Works of P. B. S.", 1870.]
Faint with love, the Lady of the South Lay in the paradise of Lebanon
Under a heaven of cedar boughs: the drouth Of love was on her lips; the
light was gone Out of her eyes-- _5
***

FRAGMENT: ZEPHYRUS THE AWAKENER.

[Published by Rossetti, "Complete Poetical Works of P. B. S.", 1870.]

Come, thou awakener of the spirit's ocean, Zephyr, whom to thy cloud or
cave No thought can trace! speed with thy gentle motion!

***

FRAGMENT: RAIN.

[Published by Rossetti, "Complete Poetical Works of P. B.
S.", 1870.]
The gentleness of rain was in the wind.

***

FRAGMENT: 'WHEN SOFT WINDS AND SUNNY SKIES'.

[Published by Mrs. Shelley, "Poetical Works", 1839, 1st edition.]
When soft winds and sunny skies With the green earth harmonize, And the
young and dewy dawn, Bold as an unhunted fawn, Up the windless heaven is
gone,-- _5 Laugh--for ambushed in the day,-- Clouds and whirlwinds
watch their prey.

***

FRAGMENT: 'AND THAT I WALK THUS PROUDLY CROWNED'.

[Published by Mrs. Shelley, "Poetical Works", 1839, 1st edition.]

          And that I walk thus proudly
           crowned withal Is that 'tis
           my distinction; if I fall, I shall
           not weep out of the vital day, To-morrow dust, nor wear a dull
decay.

NOTE:
_2 'Tis that is or In that is cj. A.C. Bradley.

***

          FRAGMENT: 'THE RUDE WIND IS
           SINGING'.
           
           [Published by Mrs. Shelley,
           "Poetical Works", 1839, 1st
           edition.]

The rude wind is singing The dirge of the music dead; The cold worms
are clinging Where kisses were lately fed.

***
FRAGMENT: 'GREAT SPIRIT'.

          [Published by Rossetti, "Complete
           Poetical Works of P. B. S.", 1870.]
           
           Great Spirit whom the sea of boundless thought
           Nurtures within its unimagined
           caves, In which thou sittest sole,
           as in my mind, Giving a voice
           to its mysterious waves--
           ***
           
           FRAGMENT: 'O THOU IMMORTAL
           DEITY'.

[Published by Mrs. Shelley, "Poetical Works", 1839, 2nd edition.]
O thou immortal deity Whose throne is in the depth of human thought,
I do adjure thy power and thee By all that man may be, by all that
he is not, By all that he has been and yet must be!

          _5
           ***
           
           FRAGMENT: THE FALSE LAUREL AND THE
           TRUE.
           
           [Published by Mrs. Shelley,
           "Poetical Works",
           1839, 1st edition.]
           
           'What art thou,
           Presumptuous,
           who profanest The
           wreath to mighty
           poets only due, Even whilst like
           a forgotten
           moon thou wanest?
           Touch not those
           leaves which
           for the eternal few
           Who wander
           o'er the Paradise of fame, _5 In sacred dedication ever grew:
One of the crowd thou art without a name.'

'Ah, friend, 'tis the false laurel that I wear; Bright though it
seem, it is not the same As that which bound Milton's immortal hair;
_10 Its dew is poison; and the hopes that quicken Under its chilling
shade, though seeming fair, Are flowers which die almost before
they sicken.' 
*** 

FRAGMENT: MAY THE LIMNER.

          [This and the three following Fragments were edited from
           manuscript Shelley D1 at the Bodleian Library and
               published by
           Mr. C.D. Locock, "Examination", etc., Oxford, Clarendon
           Press, 1903. They are printed here as belonging probably
               to the year 1821.]

When May is painting with her colours gay The landscape sketched by
April her sweet twin...

          
               ***
           
               FRAGMENT: BEAUTY'S HALO.
           
           [Published by Mr. C.D.

Locock, "Examination", etc, 1903.]
Thy beauty hangs around thee like Splendour around the moon-- Thy
voice, as silver bells that strike Upon
***

FRAGMENT: 'THE DEATH KNELL IS RINGING'.

          ('This reads like a study for
           "Autumn, A Dirge"' (Locock).
           Might it not be part of a
           projected Fit v. of "The
           Fugitives"?--ED.)
           [Published by Mr. C.D. Locock,
           "Examination", etc., 1903.]
           

The death knell is ringing The raven is singing The earth worm is
creeping The mourners are weeping Ding dong, bell-- _5 
***
FRAGMENT: 'I STOOD UPON A HEAVEN-CLEAVING TURRET'.

I stood upon a heaven-cleaving turret Which overlooked a wide
Metropolis-- And in the temple of my heart my Spirit Lay prostrate, and
with parted lips did kiss The dust of Desolations [altar] hearth-- _5
And with a voice too faint to falter It shook that trembling fane with
its weak prayer 'Twas noon,--the sleeping skies were blue The city
*** 

NOTE ON POEMS OF 1821, BY MRS.

SHELLEY.

          
               My task becomes inexpressibly painful
           as the year draws near that which
               sealed our earthly fate, and each poem, and each event it records,
has a real or mysterious connection with the fatal catastrophe.

I feel that I am incapable of putting on paper the history of those times.
The heart of the man, abhorred of the poet, who could
'peep and botanize Upon his mother's grave,'
does not appear to me more inexplicably framed than that of one who
can dissect and probe past woes, and repeat to the public ear the groans
drawn from them in the throes of their agony.

The year 1821 was spent in Pisa, or at the Baths of San Giuliano.
We were not, as our wont had been, alone; friends had gathered round
us.
Nearly all are dead, and, when Memory recurs to the past, she wanders
among tombs.

The genius, with all his blighting errors and mighty powers; the
companion of Shelley's ocean-wanderings, and the sharer of his
fate, than whom no man ever existed more gentle, generous, and fearless;
and others, who found in Shelley's society, and in his great
knowledge and warm sympathy, delight, instruction, and solace; have
joined him beyond the grave.

          A few survive who have felt life
           a desert since he left it.
           What misfortune can equal death?
           Change can convert every other into
           a blessing, or heal its
           sting--death alone has no cure.
           It shakes the foundations of the
           earth on which we tread; it destroys
           its beauty; it casts down
           our shelter; it exposes us
           bare to desolation. When those
           we love have passed into eternity,
           'life is the desert and the
           solitude' in which we are
           forced to linger--but never
           find comfort more.
           
           There is much in the "Adonais" which seems now more applicable to
Shelley himself than to the young and gifted poet whom he mourned.

The poetic view he takes of death, and the lofty scorn he displays
towards his calumniators, are as a prophecy on his own destiny when
received among immortal names, and the poisonous breath of critics
has vanished into emptiness before the fame he inherits.

          Shelley's favourite taste was boating;
           when living near the Thames or by
           the Lake of Geneva, much of his
                              life was spent on the water.

          On the shore of every lake or
           stream or sea near which
           he dwelt, he had a boat moored.
                              He had latterly enjoyed this pleasure again.

          There are no pleasure-boats on
           the Arno; and the shallowness
           of its waters (except in
                              winter-time, when the stream is too turbid and impetuous for
boating) rendered it difficult to get any skiff light enough to
float.

          Shelley, however, overcame the
           difficulty; he, together with a friend,
           contrived a boat such as the
                              huntsmen carry about with them in the Maremma, to cross the sluggish
but deep streams that intersect the forests,--a boat of laths and
pitched canvas.

It held three persons; and he was often seen on the Arno in it, to
the horror of the Italians, who remonstrated on the danger, and could
not understand how anyone could take pleasure in an exercise that
risked life. 'Ma va per la vita!' they exclaimed. I little thought how
true their words would prove. He once ventured, with a friend, on
the glassy sea of a calm day, down the Arno and round the coast to Leghorn,
which, by keeping close in shore, was very practicable. They returned
to Pisa by the canal, when, missing the direct cut, they got entangled
among weeds, and the boat upset; a wetting was all the harm done, except
that the intense cold of his drenched clothes made Shelley faint. Once
I went down with him to the mouth of the Arno, where the stream, then
high and swift, met the tideless sea, and disturbed its sluggish waters.
It was a waste and dreary scene; the desert sand stretched into a point
surrounded by waves that broke idly though perpetually around; it was a
scene very similar to Lido, of which he had said--
'I love all waste And solitary places; where we taste The pleasure of
believing what we see Is boundless, as we wish our souls to be:
And such was this wide ocean, and this shore More barren than its
billows.'

Our little boat was of greater use, unaccompanied by any danger, when we
removed to the Baths. Some friends lived at the village of Pugnano,
four miles off, and we went to and fro to see them, in our boat, by the
canal; which, fed by the Serchio, was, though an artificial, a
full and picturesque stream, making its way under verdant banks,
sheltered by trees that dipped their boughs into the murmuring
waters.

By day, multitudes of Ephemera darted to and fro on the surface; at
night, the fireflies came out among the shrubs on the banks; the
cicale at noon-day kept up their hum; the aziola cooed in the quiet
evening. It was a pleasant summer, bright in all but Shelley's health
and inconstant spirits; yet he enjoyed himself greatly, and became
more and more attached to the part of the country were chance appeared
to cast us. Sometimes he projected taking a farm situated on the height
of one of the near hills, surrounded by chestnut and pine woods, and
overlooking a wide extent of country: or settling still farther in the
maritime Apennines, at Massa. Several of his slighter and unfinished
poems were inspired by these scenes, and by the companions around
us.
It is the nature of that poetry, however, which overflows from the soul
oftener to express sorrow and regret than joy; for it is when oppressed
by the weight of life, and away from those he loves, that the
poet has recourse to the solace of expression in verse.

Still, Shelley's passion was the ocean; and he wished that our
summers, instead of being passed among the hills near Pisa,
should be spent on the shores of the sea. It was very difficult to
find a spot. We shrank from Naples from a fear that the heats would
disagree with Percy:
Leghorn had lost its only attraction, since our friends who had resided
there were returned to England; and, Monte Nero being the resort of many
English, we did not wish to find ourselves in the midst of a colony
of chance travellers.

No one then thought it possible to reside at Via Reggio, which latterly
has become a summer resort. The low lands and bad air of Maremma
stretch the whole length of the western shores of the Mediterranean,
till broken by the rocks and hills of Spezia. It was a vague idea,
but Shelley suggested an excursion to Spezia, to see whether it
would be feasible to spend a summer there. The beauty of the bay
enchanted him. We saw no house to suit us; but the notion took root,
and many circumstances, enchained as by fatality, occurred to urge
him to execute it.

He looked forward this autumn with great pleasure to the prospect of a
visit from Leigh Hunt. When Shelley visited Lord Byron at
Ravenna, the latter had suggested his coming out, together with the
plan of a periodical work in which they should all join. Shelley saw a
prospect of good for the fortunes of his friend, and pleasure in his
society; and instantly exerted himself to have the plan executed.

He did not intend himself joining in the work: partly from pride, not
wishing to have the air of acquiring readers for his poetry by
associating it with the compositions of more popular writers; and
also because he might feel shackled in the free expression of his opinions,
if any friends were to be compromised. By those opinions, carried even
to their outermost extent, he wished to live and die, as being in
his conviction not only true, but such as alone would conduce to the
moral improvement and happiness of mankind. The sale of the work might
meanwhile, either really or supposedly, be injured by the free expression
of his thoughts; and this evil he resolved to avoid.

***

          
           POEMS WRITTEN IN 1822.
           
           
           THE ZUCCA.

[Published by Mrs.

          Shelley, "Posthumous Poems", 1824,
           and dated 'January, 1822.'

There is a copy amongst the Boscombe manuscripts.] 
1.

          Summer was dead and Autumn was
           expiring, And infant Winter laughed
           upon the land All cloudlessly
           and cold;--when I, desiring More in this world than any understand,
Wept o'er the beauty, which, like sea retiring, _5 Had left the
earth bare as the wave-worn sand Of my lorn heart, and o'er the
grass and flowers Pale for the falsehood of the flattering Hours.

2.

Summer was dead, but I yet lived to weep The instability of all but
weeping; _10 And on the Earth lulled in her winter sleep I woke,
and envied her as she was sleeping.

           Too happy Earth! over thy face shall
           creep The wakening vernal airs,
           until thou, leaping From unremembered
           dreams, shalt ... see _15 No death divide
           thy immortality.
           
           3.
           I loved--oh, no, I mean not one of ye,
           Or any earthly one, though ye are
           dear As human heart to human
               heart may be;-- I loved, I
               know not what--but this low sphere _20 And all that it contains,
contains not thee, Thou, whom, seen nowhere, I feel everywhere.

           From Heaven and Earth, and all
           that in them are, Veiled art
           thou, like a ... star.
           
           4.
           By Heaven and Earth, from all
           whose shapes thou flowest,
           _25 Neither to be contained,
           delayed, nor hidden; Making divine
           the loftiest and the lowest, When for
               a moment thou art not
               forbidden To live within the life which thou bestowest; And leaving
noblest things vacant and chidden, _30 Cold as a corpse after the
spirit's flight Blank as the sun after the birth of night.

5.

           In winds, and trees, and streams, and all things common, In music
and the sweet unconscious tone Of animals, and voices which are
human, _35 Meant to express some feelings of their own; In the soft
motions and rare smile of woman, In flowers and leaves, and in the
grass fresh-shown, Or dying in the autumn, I the most Adore thee
present or lament thee lost. _40 
6.
And thus I went lamenting, when I saw A plant upon the river's
margin lie Like one who loved beyond his nature's law, And in despair
had cast him down to die; Its leaves, which had outlived the frost,
the thaw _45 Had blighted; like a heart which hatred's eye Can blast
not, but which pity kills; the dew Lay on its spotted leaves like
tears too true.

7.
The Heavens had wept upon it, but the Earth Had crushed it on her
maternal breast _50 
...

8.
I bore it to my chamber, and I planted It in a vase full of the
lightest mould; The winter beams which out of Heaven slanted Fell
through the window-panes, disrobed of cold, Upon its leaves and
flowers; the stars which panted _55 In evening for the Day, whose
car has rolled Over the horizon's wave, with looks of light Smiled
on it from the threshold of the night.

9.
The mitigated influences of air And light revived the plant, and
from it grew _60 Strong leaves and tendrils, and its flowers fair,
Full as a cup with the vine's burning dew, O'erflowed with golden
colours; an atmosphere Of vital warmth enfolded it anew, And every
impulse sent to every part The unbeheld pulsations of its heart.
_65 
10.
Well might the plant grow beautiful and strong, Even if the air and
sun had smiled not on it; For one wept o'er it all the winter long
Tears pure as Heaven's rain, which fell upon it _70 Hour after hour;
for sounds of softest song Mixed with the stringed melodies that
won it To leave the gentle lips on which it slept, Had loosed the
heart of him who sat and wept.

11.the moss-pool sudden flies,
           In another spot to rise;
           And the scanty-grown plantation,
           Finds another situation,
           And a more congenial soil,
           Without needing woodman's toil.
           Now the warren moves--and see!
           How the burrowing rabbits flee,
           Hither, thither till they find it,
           With another brake behind it.
               Ho! ho! 'tis a merry sight
               Thou hast given the hag to-night.

           Lo! new lines the witch is tracing,
           Every well-known mark effacing,
           Elsewhere, other bounds erecting,
           So the old there's no detecting.
               Ho! ho! 'tis a pastime quite,
               Thou hast given the hag to-night!

           The hind at eve, who wander'd o'er
           The dreary waste of Pendle Moor,
           Shall wake at dawn, and in surprise,
           Doubt the strange sight that meets his eyes.
           The pathway leading to his hut
           Winds differently,--the gate is shut.
           The ruin on the right that stood.
           Lies on the left, and nigh the wood;
           The paddock fenced with wall of stone,
           Wcll-stock'd with kine, a mile hath flown,
           The sheepfold and the herd are gone.
           Through channels new the brooklet rushes,
           Its ancient course conceal'd by bushes.
           Where the hollow was, a mound
           Rises from the upheaved ground.
           Doubting, shouting with surprise,
           How the fool stares, and rubs his eyes!
           All's so changed, the simple elf
           Fancies he is changed himself!
           Ho! ho! 'tis a merry sight
           The hag shall have when dawns the light.
           But see! she halts and waves her hand.
           All is done as thou hast plann'd."

After a moment's pause the voice added,

          "I have done as thou hast will'd--
           Now be thy path straight fulfill'd."

"It shall be," replied Mistress Nutter, whose features gleamed with
fierce exultation. "Bring forth the proselyte!" she shouted.

And at the words, her swarthy serving-man, Blackadder, came forth from
the Lacy chapel, leading Jennet by the hand. They were followed by Tib,
who, dilated to twice his former size, walked with tail erect, and eyes
glowing like carbuncles.

At sight of her daughter a loud cry of rage and astonishment burst from
Elizabeth Device, and, rushing forward, she would have seized her, if
Tib had not kept her off by a formidable display of teeth and talons.
Jennet made no effort to join her mother, but regarded her with a
malicious and triumphant grin.

"This is my chilt," screamed Elizabeth. "She canna be baptised without
my consent, an ey refuse it. Ey dunna want her to be a witch--at least
not yet awhile. Even if _they_ should eventually come to forget the nature of the
originals good would arise, for they would then believe that it was
only since their conversion to the faith of the prophet that their
ancestors had assumed a human shape.

There are two forms of the shadow wayang, the _purva_ and the _gedog_.

The subjects of the first are taken from the various mythological
works of the Hindu period, and from the Bharata Yuddha.

In presenting this wayang, the dalang first recites a few verses in
Kavi, and then continues the narrative in a modern Javanese version.

This wayang is especially useful as serving to keep alive some
knowledge of the literary dialect among the common people.

The wayang gedog differs from the former in so far as its subjects belong
to a later period, and no Kavi verses are recited. The gamelan also
which accompanies the dalang is somewhat different.

Pangi is the favourite hero of the wayang gedog, though he is not represented
so exclusively as in the theatre.

In both of these wayangs the dalang often improvises the dialogue
with which the narrative is interspersed.

I have described the wayang klitik in my account of my visit to Tji
Wangi.

The performance is given without the intervention of a curtain, and
the figures in the wayang are slightly smaller and not nearly so
skilfully constructed as in the two former.

The wayang klitik takes its subjects from the period of the Mohammedan
invasion.

The dalangs are held in great respect by the common people, and many
of them possess their own sets of wayang puppets. It is customary for
the native princes to keep a dalang at their palaces; in this case,
of course, the figures and gamelan do not belong to the dalang, but
to the prince.

[Illustration: A WAYANG FIGURE.]

CHAPTER XV.

SINGAPORE.

Batavia and Singapore--Raffles' arrival in the East-- Determines
to oppose the Dutch supremacy in the Archipelago--Occupation of
Java--Is knighted--Returns from England--Foundation of
Singapore--Uncertainty whether the settlement would be maintained--His
death--Description of Singapore--Epilogue.

A fortnight after my visit to Tji Wangi I left Java. As the train
took us from Batavia to the port, I caught a glimpse of the sea over the
palm-trees, and I felt something of the exultation which prompted the
remnant of the ten thousand Greeks to exclaim, "The sea! the sea!"
I had tired of the steamy atmosphere of Batavia, and that line of blue
seemed full of revivifying power.

Three days later we reached Singapore. Here everything was bright and
new and English--miles of wharfs crowded with shipping, broad
streets, the cathedral spire _en evidence_, tall warehouses, and
handsome Government buildings.

Watering-carts replaced the bamboo buckets in the streets, and English
iron and stone work the quaint lamps and antiquated masonry.

There the Dutch lived by themselves; the wide streets, education,
Christianity, were for them exclusively.

Here it was otherwise. Even the native streets were well drained and
lighted; for the Englishman shares his civilization with the
native races. The glory of the place is its splendidly turfed and
tree-clad esplanade; and in the centre of the broad carriage-road there
stands the statue of Sir Stamford Raffles, for five years Lieutenant-Governor
of Java and the founder of Singapore.

The British occupation of Singapore arose so directly out of the
cession of Java, that a description of the circumstances which led
to this event will suitably complete my account of that country.

[Illustration: THE ESPLANADE, SINGAPORE. _Page_ 264.]
After some years' service as a clerk in the East India house in
London, Raffles was despatched in 1805, when only twenty-three years
of age, to the East, as assistant-secretary to the Government of
Penang, where a settlement was then being formed by the company.

In this capacity he so distinguished himself as to attract the
notice of Lord Minto, then Governor-General of India.

In particular Raffles made himself acquainted, as no other European
had done before, with the circumstances and character of the Malay
races.

Subsequently, in view of the annexation of Holland by Napoleon, it
became desirable for the Indian Government to take some measures
to prevent the establishment of the French in the Dutch possessions
in the East.

When, as a means to this end, it was determined to occupy Java, it was to
Raffles that Lord Minto applied for the necessary information upon which
the operations of the expedition could be based.

The capture of Java was considered of such importance that the
Governor-General himself accompanied the expedition.

Raffles' information was found to be so accurate, and his suggestions
so valuable, that after the capitulation of General Jansens on September
18, 1811, Lord Minto entrusted the island to his charge. Up to the
present, Raffles had been acting first as agent and afterwards as
chief secretary to the Governor-General; he was now appointed
Lieutenant-Governor of Java and its dependencies.

I have already written of the principles upon which Raffles based his
measures during the five years of his administration, and of the
criticism which was directed against them.

The whole of Raffles' public acts as a servant of the company were
reviewed by the Court of Directors in 1826.

The verdict of this very competent authority, with reference to the
financial expedients and the general reforms which he adopted in his
administration of the island, was entirely favourable, if we except
what refers to the sale of lands, which it characterized as a
"questionable proceeding."

It is worthy of note, however, that this "questionable proceeding" had
been pronounced by the Governor-General to be "an able expedient in a
moment of great emergency." Raffles was bitterly disappointed when
the news reached him that, under the settlement effected by the
Treaty of London, the British Government had consented to restore
Java to the Dutch.

For a moment the announcement of Napoleon's escape from Elba seemed
to bring a chance of a reprieve.

But this transient gleam of hope was soon dispelled, and in March, 1816,
Raffles relinquished the government to the imperial officer appointed
to carry out the transference of the island.

Lord Minto had secured for him the residency of Bencoolen, a
settlement on the western coast of Sumatra; but his state of health
was so unsatisfactory that it became necessary for him to proceed
to England without delay.

After a stay of only fifteen months' duration, during which he
received the honour of knighthood from the king, Raffles again set
sail for India in October, 1817.

He was appointed to the government of Bencoolen, with the title of
Lieutenant-Governor of Fort Marlborough, and it is in this capacity that
he signed his Singapore proclamations.

It appears, however, that he was in some way commissioned
by the Home Government to exercise a general supervision over
British interests in the further East.

In a letter written in 1820 he says that he "had separate instructions
from the Court to watch the motions of foreign nations, and
particularly the Dutch, in the Archipelago generally, and to write
to the Court and the Secret Committee

.

"[31] On his arrival at Bencoolen in March, 1819, he set himself
once more to achieve that object for which he had incessantly
worked ever since his first appearance in the East--the establishment
of British influence in Malaya and the Eastern Archipelago.

With this object in view Raffles resolved to proceed to Calcutta,
in order that he might personally confer with Lord Hastings, who had
succeeded Lord Minto as Governor-General, and secure the co-operation
of the Bengal Government in his plans.

He arrived at Calcutta early in July of the same year. Lord Hastings
expressed a high appreciation of the value of Raffles' services
in Java, and gave him general assurances of his further support.

Although the Bengal Government were not prepared to endorse the extension
of the British authority in Sumatra, they and the British merchants
at Calcutta were at least rendered sensible by Raffles' arguments
of the importance of endeavouring to check the progress of the Dutch
in the Malay Peninsula.

Of the two channels which alone gave access to the Archipelago, one
was already in the hands of the Dutch, and the other soon would be.

In short, unless some immediate and energetic measures were taken,
the trade of the whole Eastern Archipelago would be closed against
the English merchants.

In his own words, Raffles asked for neither territory nor people;
all he wanted was "permission to anchor a line-of-battle ship and
hoist the English flag."

[Footnote 31: "Memoir of Sir Stamford Raffles, by his widow." 1830.]

In short, the result of Raffles' visit to Calcutta was that the Bengal
Government resolved, if possible, to keep the command of the Straits
of Malacca, and he was despatched as their agent to effect this
purpose.

It appears that the Bengal Government hoped to sufficiently command the
straits by an establishment at Achin, in the extreme north of
Sumatra, and by taking possession of Rhio, a small island south of
Singapore.
Raffles, however, foresaw--what indeed happened--that the Dutch
would anticipate him in the occupation of Rhio, while Achin seemed
scarcely suitable for the purpose.

When he left Calcutta he had another plan in view. On December 12, 1818,
he writes from on board the _Nearchus_, at the mouth of the Ganges, to
his frequent correspondent Marsden, the Sumatran traveller--
"We are now on our way to the eastward, in the hope of doing something,
but I much fear the Dutch have hardly left us an inch of ground to
stand upon. My attention is principally turned to Johore, and you must
not be surprised if my next letter to you is dated from the site
of the ancient city of Singapura."

In carrying out the difficult task which had been entrusted to him,
Raffles encountered not only the opposition of the Dutch, which
he naturally expected, but that of the Government of Penang.

The authorities at Penang had a double reason for their opposition. In
the first place, they regarded the establishment of a station
further east as detrimental to the interests of their own settlement;
and, in the next, they had themselves unsuccessfully endeavoured
to acquire a similar position, and now maintained that the time had
gone by for such measures.

Fortunately, however, Raffles had already secured the services of
Colonel Farquhar and a military force.

This officer was in command of the troops at Bencoolen, which, at the
time Raffles left Calcutta, were on the point of being relieved. Raffles
had written from Calcutta, instructing him to proceed to Europe
by the Straits of Sunda, where he would receive further
instructions.

Singapore, the spot which Raffles' knowledge of the Malay states enabled
him to secure for his settlement, is a small island, twenty-seven miles
long by fourteen broad, immediately south of the Malay Peninsula, from
which it is separated by a channel of less than a mile in width.

No situation could be imagined better calculated to secure the
objects which the new settlement was intended to effect.

Not only does the island completely command the Straits of Malacca,
the gate of the ocean highway to China and the Eastern Archipelago, but,
lying at a convenient distance from the Chinese, the Indian, and
the Javanese ports, it was admirably adapted to serve as an _entrepôt_
and centre of English trade.

The island at this time formed part of the territory of the Sultan
of Johore, and it contained the remains of the original maritime
capital of the Malays.

It was within the circuit of these Malay fortifications, raised more than
six centuries ago, that, on the 29th of February, 1819, Raffles
planted the British flag at Singapore.

From the very first Raffles fully realized the value of the acquisition.

On the 19th of February, 1819, he writes that he has found "at Singapore
advantages far superior to what Rhio afforded." And in the same letter
he says, "In short, Singapore is everything we could desire, and
I may consider myself most fortunate in the selection; it will soon
rise into importance, and with this single station alone, I would
undertake to counteract all the plans of Mynheer."

Raffles was not able to remain for more than a few days at Singapore.
He hurried on to Achin, and, after completing the object of his
mission there, returned to his residency at Bencoolen.

But the new settlement rapidly progressed under Colonel Farquhar's
able administration. A year afterwards, this officer writes to
Raffles that "nothing can possibly exceed the rising trade and
general prosperity of this infant colony."

He adds, "Merchants of all descriptions are collecting here so fast
that nothing is heard in the shape of complaint but the want of
more ground to build on."

In spite of this immediate assurance of prosperity, it remained for a
long time uncertain whether the British Government would maintain
the settlement.

The right of possession was from the first disputed by the Dutch.

Raffles himself succinctly states in a letter to Marsden the basis
upon which this rested.

It appears, from his letter, that the Dutch had secured the cession of
Rhio from the Sultan of Lingen, whom they recognized as the Sultan
of Johore.

On his arrival at Singapore, Raffles was visited by one of the two
chief hereditary officials of Johore, who represented to him that
an elder brother of the Sultan of Lingen was the legal successor
to that throne, adding, that as the Dutch had negotiated with an
incompetent authority, it was still open to the English to effect
a settlement on the territory of Johore.

This elder brother was subsequently recognized by the nobles at the
court of Johore, and it was with this personage, in his capacity
of Sultan of Johore, that Raffles concluded his treaty, and obtained
permission to establish his settlement.

The Dutch, on the other hand, maintained that the Sultan of Lingen
had been legally invested with the sovereignty of Johore at the
time of the occupation; and, therefore, that the permission accorded
to Raffles was worthless.

In a letter bearing date July 19, 1820, a correspondent writes to him
from London--
"You are probably aware of the obstacles which have been opposed
to the adoption of your measures, and even threatened your position
in the service.

Your zeal considerably out-stepped your prudence, and the first
operations of it became known at an unfavourable juncture.

It was thought that the state of affairs in Europe required that they
should be discountenanced.

"The acquisition of Singapore has grown in importance. The stir made
here lately for the further enlargement of the Eastern trade
fortified that impression.

It is now accredited in the India House

."[32]
[Footnote 32: "Memoir of Sir Stamford Raffles."]
Undoubtedly the Dutch were making strong endeavours at this time to procure
the removal from the East of a man who had shown himself so resolute
and capable an opponent of their commercial system.

Raffles himself writes from Bencoolen in July, 1820, "After all, it is
not impossible the ministry may be weak enough to abandon Singapore, and
to sacrifice me, honour, and the Eastern Archipelago to the outrageous
pretensions of the Dutch." Fortunately he had powerful friends, and he
was not immediately recalled. Meanwhile he continued to hold the settlement
on his personal responsibility against the efforts of both the British
and Dutch East India Governments.

In eighteen months it had grown from an insignificant fishing village
to a port with a population of 10,000 inhabitants.

During the first two and a half years of its existence Singapore was
visited by as many as 2889 vessels, with an aggregate burden of
161,515 tons.

The total value of its exports and imports for the year 1822 amounted
to no less than 8,568,172 dollars.[33]
[Footnote 33: The Mexican dollar, which varies in value, but is
worth about four shillings.]

Raffles returned to Singapore on the 10th of October, 1822, on his
way to England.

He remained in the settlement for nine months, and during this time
employed himself in laying-out the city, and in drawing up rules
and regulations for the government of its people.

In one of his letters he expresses a hope "that, though Singapore
may be the first capital established in the nineteenth century, it
will not disgrace the brightest period of it."

The position of Raffles in respect to Singapore was indeed remarkable.
Though a servant of the company for five years, he was personally
responsible for the administration of the settlement, and neither
the Bengal Government nor the Court of Directors in London would
relieve him.

In the report which he sent to the Bengal Government before returning
to England, he states the main principles upon which he has based
the regulations which he framed.

At the head of them stands a declaration of the principle of free
trade.

"First I have declared that the port of Singapore is a free port,
and the trade thereof open to ships and vessels of every nation,
free of duty, equally and alike to all."

It was a hatred of their monopolist policy which had especially inspired
Raffles in his opposition to the Dutch. In respect of the question of the
authority of his legislation, he writes that he considered himself
justified in thus provisionally legislating for the settlement by
reason of the existence of "an actual and urgent necessity for some
immediate and provisional arrangements."

He further states that in framing these regulations he has, while giving
due weight to local considerations, "adhered as closely as possible
to those principles which from immemorial usage have ever been
considered the most essential and sacred parts of the British
constitution."

Before he left Singapore, Raffles selected twelve merchants and appointed
them to act as magistrates for a year. He also provided for a succession
of such magistrates, who were to be chosen from a list kept by the
Resident.

Raffles' career was cut short by his sudden and premature death, which
took place on the 5th of July, 1826. He had lived, however, long enough
to see the merit of his public conduct established by the judgment of
the Court of Directors, which I have already mentioned, and which
was pronounced in the preceding April.

He's to ha' little Flint, the Welsh pony."

"Why, zounds, you don't say, Peter!" exclaimed Nicholas, laughing;
"he'll never be able to manage him. Flint's the wickedest and most
wilful little brute I ever knew. We shall have Master Potts run away
with, or thrown into a moss-pit. Better give him something quieter."

"It's Sir Roaph's orders," replied Peter, "an ey darna disobey 'em. Boh
Flint's far steadier than when yo seed him last, squoire. Ey dar say
he'll carry Mester Potts weel enough, if he dusna mislest him."

"You think nothing of the sort, Peter," said Nicholas. "You expect to
see the little gentleman fly over the pony's head, and perhaps break his
own at starting. But if Sir Ralph has ordered it, he must abide by the
consequences. I sha'n't interfere further. How goes on the young colt
you were breaking in? You should take care to show him the saddle in the
manger, let him smell it, and jingle the stirrups in his ears, before
you put it on his back. Better ground for his first lessons could not be
desired than the field below the grange, near the Calder. Sir Ralph was
saying yesterday, that the roan mare had pricked her foot. You must wash
the sore well with white wine and salt, rub it with the ointment the
farriers call ægyptiacum, and then put upon it a hot plaster compounded
of flax hards, turpentine, oil and wax, bathing the top of the hoof with
bole armeniac and vinegar. This is the best and quickest remedy. And
recollect, Peter, that for a new strain, vinegar, bole armeniac, whites
of eggs, and bean-flour, make the best salve. How goes on Sir Ralph's
black charger, Dragon? A brave horse that, Peter, and the only one in
your master's whole stud to compare with my Robin! But Dragon, though of
high courage and great swiftness, has not the strength and endurance of
Robin--neither can he leap so well. Why, Robin would almost clear the
Calder, Peter, and makes nothing of Smithies Brook, near Downham, and
you know how wide that stream is. The Dutch regained their East Indian
possessions by the Treaty of London. On their return to Java, they
restored the village community with its joint ownership and joint
liability, and abolished all proprietary rights of the natives in
the soil, only allowing ownership of land to Europeans.

They contend that this attempt of Raffles to apply Western principles
to an Eastern society had already proved disastrous.
The peasants, on the one hand, had not acquired the habits necessary
for the successful development of their holdings, but, on the
other, through their inability to pay the land rent, were becoming
hopelessly involved in debt to the Chinese and Arab money-lenders.

The broad fact, however, remains that during the short period of British
rule the revenue rose from three and a half to seven and a half million
florins, and the population from four to five and a half millions.

As the old monopolies from which the chief part of the revenue had
formerly been derived had been abolished by the policy of
unrestricted commerce introduced by Raffles, it was necessary to find
some other method of raising money.

It was decided to retain the land tax as a basis of revenue, but, in
order to make it more profitable, a return was made to the original
principle of land tenure under native rule, by which the cultivator paid
one-fifth of his labour and one-fifth of his produce in return for
the usufruct of the land.

One day of gratuitous labour in seven (the European week) was
substituted for one day in five formerly given to the landlord.

In certain districts, namely, those of which the Dutch became
possessed by treaty and not by conquest, this contribution in kind
and labour was paid to the native princes, and not to the Government.

On private estates, again, as the Government had parted with their
feudal rights in alienating the property, a tax of three-fourths
per cent, on the estimated value of the property was substituted.

This tax, called _verponding_, was at most equivalent to one-fifth of
the net yearly income.

As before, the produce due from the peasants cultivating Government lands
was commuted into a money payment assessed upon the rice crops; but this
payment was made, not by the individual peasants, but by the _wedanas_,
or village chiefs, on behalf of the whole community. Beside the land
tax, an additional source of income remained in the profit
arising from the sale of coffee, grown either by the Preanger Regents
and sold to the Government at prices fixed by treaty, or on the
coffee plantations established by Marshall Daendels, which were now
restored.

These two methods of raising revenue were resorted to by the Dutch upon
their return to the island, and continued in force during the
period 1816-1833.

They were wholly inadequate. Whether the Dutch were right or not in
characterizing Raffles' reforms as a failure, it is certain that
nothing could be more desperate than the state of the island in the
years immediately preceding the introduction of the culture system.

At the end of the period 1816-1833 both revenue and population seem
to have become stationary. The mass of the natives were becoming so
impoverished that they ceased to be able to keep a supply of
domestic animals and implements necessary for the cultivation of
their lands.

Apart from the princes, there was no class, merchants or tradespeople,
possessing any wealth that could be taxed. Not only was the revenue
stagnant, but, owing to a war with the sultans of the interior, a debt
of over 35,000,000 florins was incurred by the Government.

In a word, the colony seemed likely to become an intolerable burden to
Holland. It was at this crisis that General Van den Bosch proposed the
culture system as a means of rescuing the island from its financial
and social difficulties.

The immediate object of the culture system was to extend the cultivation
of sugar, coffee, and other produce suited for European consumption;
its ultimate object was to develop the resources of the island.

This latter was, of course, the most important. Van den Bosch saw
that the natives would never be able to do this by themselves. In the
first place, they were still organized on the patriarchal model
in village communities; and, in the second, owing to the tropical
climate and the extreme ease with which life could be sustained in
so fertile a country, they were naturally indolent and unprogressive.

He therefore proposed to organize their labour under European supervision.
By this method he thought that he would be able both to raise the
revenue and to improve the condition of the peasants by teaching
them to grow valuable produce in addition to the rice crops on which
they depended for subsistence.

Van den Bosch became Governor-General of Java and its dependencies in
1830. Before leaving Holland he had made his proposals known, and obtained
the approval of the Netherlands Government. He took with him newly
appointed officials free from colonial traditions, and his reforms inspired
such confidence, that a number of well-educated and intelligent
persons were willing to emigrate with their families to Java in
order to take up the business of manufacturing the produce grown
under the new system.

Upon his arrival in the island, a special branch cf the Colonial
Administration was created. The first work of the new department was
to found the sugar industry. It was necessary to supply the manufacturers
with both capital and income. Accordingly, a sum amounting to £14,000
was placed to the credit of each manufacturer in the books of the department.
Of this sum he was allowed to draw up to £125 per month for the
expenses of himself and his family during the first two years.

From the third year onwards he paid back one-tenth annually. Thus at the
end of twelve years the capital was repaid. The manufacturer was to
apply the capital so advanced to the construction of the sugar-mill,
which was to be fitted with the best European machinery, and worked
by water-power.

Free labour, and timber from the Government plantations, was supplied;
and the customs duties upon the machinery and implements imported
were remitted. The building of the mills was supervised by the
_contrôleurs_, the officials of the new department, and had to be
carried out to their satisfaction.

The department also undertook to see that the peasants in the
neighbourhood of each mill should have from seven hundred to a
thousand acres planted with sugar-canes by the time the mills were
in working order.

In Java, as in other Eastern countries, the landlord has the right of
selecting the crop which the tenant is to plant, and therefore the
peasants saw nothing unusual in this action of the Government. The
contrôleurs ascertained, in the case of each village, how much rice land
was necessary for the subsistence of the village, and they then
ordered the remainder, usually one-fifth, to be planted with
sugar-canes.

At the same time, they explained that the value of the crop of sugar would
be much greater than that of the rice crop, and promised that the
peasants should be paid not only for the crops, but also for the labour
of cutting the canes and carrying them to the mill. When, at the end
of two years, the mills had been built and the plantations established,
another advance was made by the department to the manufacturers.
This was capital sufficient to pay for the value of the sugar crop,
estimated as it stood, for the wages of the peasants, and generally
for the expenses of manufacture.

This second advance was at once repaid by the produce of the mill. At
first the department required the manufacturer to deliver the whole
amount of produce to them at a price one-third in excess of the
cost of production.

Subsequently he was allowed the option of delivering the whole crop to
Government, or of delivering so much of the produce only as would
pay for the interest on the crop advance, together with the instalment
of the original capital annually due.

Working on these terms, large profits were made by the manufacturers,
and there soon came to be a demand for such new contracts as the
Government had at their disposal.

[Illustration: A PRODUCE MILL. _Page_ 156.]

As for the peasants, they were undoubtedly benefited by the
introduction of the system. While the land rent continued to be calculated
as before, on a basis of the produce of ricefields, the value of the
sugar crop was so much greater than that of the rice, which it partially
displaced, that the money received for it amounted on the average
to twice the sum paid to Government for land rent on the whole of
the village land.

Moreover, although the estimated price of the crop was paid to the
wedanas, or village chiefs, the wages for cutting and carrying were paid
to the peasants individually.

The value of the crop, the rate of wages, and the relations between the
peasants and the manufacturers generally, were settled by the contrôleurs.

In 1871, when the culture system was in full operation, there were
39,000 _bouws_, or 70,000 acres, under sugar-cane, giving employment
to 222,000 native families, and ninety-seven sugar-mills had been
started.

One-third of the produce was delivered to Government at the rate of eight
florins per picul,[17] and the remaining two-thirds were sold by the
manufacturers in open market. In the five years 1866-1870 the Government
profit on sugar amounted to rather more than 25,000,000 florins.

[Footnote 17: The picul = 135 lbs.]

Subsequently the cultivation of coffee, indigo, cochineal, tobacco,
pepper, tea, and cinchona was added to that of sugar. The system pursued
was not identical in the case of all produce.

Cochineal, indigo, tea, and tobacco were cultivated in a manner similar
to that adopted for sugar. But in the case of coffee, cinnamon, and
pepper it was not found necessary to have any manufacturers between the
contrôleurs and the peasants. Of these coffee, the most important, is
grown on lands having an elevation of from 2000 to 4500 feet. Each
head of a family is required to plant a certain number of trees
in gardens (the maximum was fixed in 1877 at fifty a year), and to
keep a nursery of young trees to replenish the plantations.

These gardens and nurseries are all inspected by native and
European officials. The process of harvesting the berry is similarly
supervised, but after that is accomplished the peasants are left to dry,
clean, and sort the berries by themselves, and are allowed to deliver
the crop at the coffee stores at their own convenience.
Finally, private persons contract for periods of two or three years
to pack and transport the coffee to the central stores at the ports. Of
the coffee produced on Government account, one-fifth only is sold in
Java, and the remainder is sent home to Europe and sold there.

The culture system was so successful as a financial expedient, that
between the years 1831 and 1875 the colonial revenue yielded
surpluses to Holland amounting to 725,000,000 florins.

This total seems the more remarkable when we know that from 1838 onwards,
the colonial revenue was charged with 200,000,000 florins of the public
debt of Holland, being the proportion borne by Belgium before the separation
of the two countries, which took place at that date.

In 1876, however, the long series of surpluses ceased, and they have since
been replaced by deficits almost as continuous. These deficits are due
to three well-ascertained causes: (1) the Achin war, (2) public works,
and (3) the fall in the price of sugar and coffee. In order to show
that this remarkable change in the financial fortunes of Java is in no
way due to the culture system, it is necessary to go somewhat more
into detail.

(1) Before the outbreak of the Achin war in 1873, the average expenditure
of the Colonial Government for military purposes was 30,000,000
florins annually.

During the period 1873-1884 this expenditure rose to an average of
50,000,000 florins, and the total cost of the war during that period
amounted to 240,000,000 florins. Since 1884 the expenditure has
been reduced by confining the operations of the troops to such as are
purely defensive; even then the average annual expenditure has reached
40,000,000 florins.

(2) Since 1875 the construction of railways and of other public works,
notably the harbour works at Tanjong Priok, the port of Batavia,
has been undertaken by Government.

Since the cost has been paid out of current revenue, and not raised by
loans, these works have necessitated a further annual expenditure of
8,000,000 florins. The total sum spent in public works between the years
1875-1884, amounting to 75,000,000 florins, is almost exactly equivalent
to the deficit incurred during the same period.

(3) In suffering from the competition of France in sugar, and of
Brazil in coffee, Java has not been peculiar.

The British West Indian colonies are at the present time most
disastrously affected by the bounty-fed sugar industry of France, and
Ceylon is only just learning how to compensate itself for the diminution
of its coffee export by the introduction of a new industry--tea.

As for the general progress of the island, it is sufficiently indicated
by the fact that since the date (1831) of the introduction of the
system, the population has increased from six to twenty-three millions,
and the revenue from thirty million florins to one hundred and
thirty-two.

Although the culture system has yielded such satisfactory results,
it has been gradually abandoned since 1871.

The reason for this change of policy is the feeling that the system,
though necessary originally to develop the resources of the island,
is at variance with the best interests of the natives, and hinders
the introduction of private enterprise and capital.

Increased commercial prosperity is expected to compensate for the loss
of revenue caused by the withdrawal of the Government from the work
of production. In the mean time, it has been found necessary to impose
various new and direct taxes. The most important of these is a poll
tax on the natives, which has taken the place of the personal services
formerly rendered by them on the Government plantations. Originally imposed
in 1871, it yielded two and a half million florins in 1886. Another
compensating source of revenue is the growth of the verponding. As already
mentioned, this is a tax of three-fourths per cent, on the capital
value of house property and industrial plant.

It is assessed every three years, and therefore is an accurate test of
the growth of private wealth invested in the colony.
In the fifteen years from 1871 to 1886, the amount yielded by this tax
showed a growth of seventy-five per cent.

It is not necessary to detail the various steps by which the Dutch have
carried out this policy of abandonment. It is sufficient to note the
general result.

To-day all industries, with the exception of coffee, opium, and
salt, are free.

In the production of the two latter, opium and salt, the Colonial
Government maintains a complete monopoly; in the case of coffee
they compete with the planters. The extent of the shares respectively
taken by the Government and private enterprise in the trade of the
island is exhibited by the following returns for 1889:--
IMPORTS. EXPORTS.

Government 13,009,445 florins 33,072,175 florins Private persons
160,375,326 " 164,590,439 " ----------- ----------- Total 173,384,771
" 197,662,614 "
The Government still produces two-thirds of the coffee crop.

In 1889 the amount produced respectively by the Government and the
planters was 578,000 and 356,000 piculs.

Of the two chief industries of the island, sugar and coffee, the exports
in 1890 amounted in value to fifty and fifteen million florins respectively.
To these must be added two new industries--tea and cinchona bark. The
former is only in its infancy, and is confined to the immediate
neighbourhood of Soekaboemi, the head-quarters of the planting interest
in Java.

Here there are two important estates, Sinagar and Parakan Salak, which
are from 12,000 to 15,000 acres in extent. The latter industry is
especially hopeful.

In 1890 the area of cinchona plantations was 22,500 acres, and 6,000,000
pounds of bark, containing four per cent, of sulphate of quinine,
was exported.

This amount is equivalent to half the world's supply for the year.

Of the import trade it is not necessary to say more than that the
most important item is that of the various cotton goods, coming
mainly from this country, which serve the natives with material for
clothing suitable for their tropical climate.

It is also important to remember that there are a quarter of a million
Chinese residents in the island, by whom all the retail, and part
of the wholesale, trade is conducted.

Last year the administration of Java was the subject of a severe criticism
in the Netherlands Parliament. The complaints were chiefly directed
against the conduct of the Achin war, the opium monopoly, and the
continued interference of the Government in the coffee industry.

The reply of Baron Mackay, the colonial minister at the Hague, was
in substance as follows:--
The Achin war, he said, was the result of unavoidable circumstances,
and neither the Colonial nor the Home Government could be regarded
as responsible for the loss of revenue involved in it.

He added, however, that "excellent results were expected from the
blockade system" now adopted, and that there were already signs
that the Atchinese would before long be brought to terms.

With regard to the sale of opium, he assured the States-General that
"every possible means were being taken to reduce the sale
of the drug, and to remedy its evil effects."

He frankly recognized the importance of the question of coffee-culture,
but at the same time urged the advisability of maintaining the system for
the present.

It was not certain, in the first place, that the existing system could
be changed with advantage; and, in the second, "no product in the
immediate future could be looked for to replace coffee as a source
of revenue."

Undoubtedly the resources of Java are at the present time subjected
to a heavy strain. On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that (1)
the burden of the Achin war may be at any time removed, and (2) all
public works are being paid for out of current revenue without recourse
to loans. There is, therefore, no reasonable ground for supposing that
the present financial difficulties of the Colonial Government are
more than temporary.

Then he whirled suddenly round, shook himself
violently, threatened to roll over, and performed antics of the most
extraordinary kind, to the dismay of his rider, but to the infinite
amusement of the spectators, who were ready to split their sides with
laughter--indeed, tears fairly streamed down the squire's cheeks.
However, when Sir Ralph appeared, it was thought desirable to put an end
to the fun; and Peter, the groom, advanced to seize the restive little
animal's bridle, but, eluding the grasp, Flint started off at full
gallop, and, accompanied by the two blood-hounds, careered round the
court-yard, as if running in a ring. Vainly did poor Potts tug at the
bridle. Flint, having the bit firmly between his teeth, defied his
utmost efforts. Away he went with the hounds at his heels, as if, said
Nicholas, "the devil were behind him." Though annoyed and angry, Sir
Ralph could not help laughing at the ridiculous scene, and even a smile
crossed Parson Dewhurst's grave countenance as Flint and his rider
scampered madly past them. Sir Ralph called to the grooms, and attempts
were instantly made to check the furious pony's career; but he baffled
them all, swerving suddenly round when an endeavour was made to
intercept him, leaping over any trifling obstacle, and occasionally
charging any one who stood in his path. What with the grooms running
hither and thither, vociferating and swearing, the barking and springing
of the hounds, the yelping of lesser dogs, and the screaming of poultry,
the whole yard was in a state of uproar and confusion.

"Flint mun be possessed," cried Peter. "Ey never seed him go on i' this
way efore. Ey noticed Elizabeth Device near th' stables last neet, an ey
shouldna wonder if hoo ha' bewitched him."

"Neaw doubt on't," replied another groom. "Howsomever we mun contrive to
ketch him, or Sir Roaph win send us aw abowt our business.

"Ey wish yo'd contrive to do it, then, Tum Lomax," replied Peter, "fo'
ey'm fairly blowd. Dang me, if ey ever seed sich hey-go-mad wark i' my
born days. What's to be done, squoire?" he added to Nicholas.

"The devil only knows," replied the latter; "but it seems we must wait
till the little rascal chooses to stop."

This occurred sooner than was expected. Thinking, possibly, that he had
done enough to induce Master Potts to give up all idea of riding him,
Flint suddenly slackened his pace, and trotted, as if nothing had
happened, to the stable-door; but if he had formed any such notion as
the above, he was deceived, for the attorney, who was quite as obstinate
and wilful as himself, and who through all his perils had managed to
maintain his seat, was resolved not to abandon it, and positively
refused to dismount when urged to do so by Nicholas and the grooms.

"He will go quietly enough now, I dare say," observed Potts, "and if
not, and you will lend me a hunting-whip, I will undertake to cure him
of his tricks."

Flint seemed to understand what was said, for he laid back his ears as
if meditating more mischief; but being surrounded by the grooms, he
deemed it advisable to postpone the attempt to a more convenient
opportunity. In compliance with his request, a heavy hunting-whip was
handed to Potts, and, armed with this formidable weapon, the little
attorney quite longed for an opportunity of effacing his disgrace.
Meanwhile, Sir Ralph had come up and ordered a steady horse out for him;
but Master Potts adhered to his resolution, and Flint remaining
perfectly quiet, the baronet let him have his own way.

Soon after this, Nicholas and Richard having mounted their steeds, the
party set forth. As they were passing through the gateway, which had
been thrown wide open by Ned Huddlestone, they were joined by Simon
Sparshot, who had been engaged by Potts to attend him on the expedition
in his capacity of constable. Simon was mounted on a mule, and brought
word that Master Roger Nowell begged they would ride round by Read Hall,
where he would be ready to accompany them, as he wished to be present at
the perambulation of the boundaries. Finally love for her betrothed
prevailed, and she communicated the particulars of the conspiracy to
him.

He at once informed the Dutch authorities.

On the following night--the night fixed for driven by lashes of whips
in four different directions are Europeans the whole structure, as is
shown by the nature of its decoration being excavated. In respect of
them. Half a mile further are the Tjandi Kali Bening, or Temples of
Kalasan. Here there is a very fine and Nicholas well-preserved temple,
seventy-two square already feet in extent, of which Mr. Wallace says
that it is" covered with sculptures ranks third in size, has a
population of. Finally his head was severed from the trunk of his
body and impaled. To this of day it remains a ghastly memorial of the
turbulent past. The most unsatisfactory part sacrifices her lover's behalf
was after all not permitted to be his. The population of Batavia
is, in round numbers, 110,000. Of these 7000 70,000. Sir Stamford
Raffles, who was Governor of Java during the short period of English
occupation, was so impressed with the commercial importance cession of
the would island to this act of political foresight,, supply route,
along interesting_lacuna_ in the antiquities of Buddhism. The Javan which
has 140,000 inhabitants. There are, however that these great works have
been recovered to the world. A Dutch engineer who was sent to construct
a fort at Klaten, in 1797, found that a number of architectural
remains existed in the neighbourhood of Brambanan, of which no
account had been given.

The natives, it appeared, regarded them as the work of some local deity,
and, indeed, were in the habit of worshipping one conspicuous statue.
He also found much effort in sufficiently clearing the vegetation, the
so as to get an adequate view. Eventually he succeeded in making some
Governor, Sir Stamford Raffles, Captain to be useless, and a. These consist
of two lower Butler was then send to make drawings of the buildings,
and to report upon them. This was the first methodical exploration of the
Hindu ruins in; but it was partial, and related almost exclusively to
the Brambanan neighbourhood. A quarter of a century while
later, when the discovery of to photography had made an exact.
reproduction of the sculptures possible, the Dutch Government instituted
an exhaustive survey of the Boro-Boedoer temple. In July, 1845, M.
Shaefer was commissioned to execute photographs of the bas-reliefs,
but he was only partially successful. Two years later, an engineer, M.
F. C. Wilsen, was sent out from Holland, had and, after giving
satisfactory proofs of his skill, definitely for appointed in 1849, by
a its decree of the Council of Netherlands India, to make drawings of
the theology, recognized whole of the task they had undertaken in
the year 1853. M. Mulder's drawings proved, however, terraces which
are square in form; Soerabaia. After visiting the the Boro-Boedoer
and the the neighbouring temple of Mendoet, it is usual to return
than at Batavia. Samarang, which It will take most persons by surprise
to learn small and externally insignificant temple Mendoet. Inside
this latter is a vaulted chamber, roof of which springs from walls
twenty feet in height, and rises to sixty feet in the centre, covering
a fine four galleries( or passages, with sculptures either side),
which are still rectangular in form, since the date of its publication
a new series of bas-reliefs have them been discovered, and are being
gradually photographed. In connection with the temples of Brambanan and
Kalasan. Indeed, images and sculptured stones are continually found
all over the island.

At Gunong Praü, forty miles south-west of Samarang, and further east, done
at Kediri and in Malang, there are large tracts of ruins; but the
most imposing and interesting for the Brambanan, a village near Djokja,
there is a large mass of ruins, basking of which the most important are
the temple of Loro-Jonggrang and a group of small temples called
Tjandi Sewoe, or Thousand Temples. that they far surpass those of Central
America, perhaps even those of India."[12] Yet it is only to give
but the reader a general idea of the extent and nature of: SKETC H MAP
OF JAVA._Page_ recently in the centre of the island, in the neighbourhood
of Magalang and Djokja, in positions indicated by the accompanying
map.

I shall endeavour first 89.] At Boro-Boedoer, miles from Magalang,
there are the remains of the vast temple other--the of that name; and
about a mile distant, on the nearer bank of the Prago river, is the In
the neighbourhood of the former ruins there are six large and fourteen
small temples, twenty separate Malacca. Singapore., the town due
simple architectural designs and groups of deities.

The lower terrace, of which Leemans only guessed the existence, is
now were, tied respectively to one of four horses buildings in all.
The ruins of the latter group the theory of the general design of the
cover a space of six hundred, square feet, and contain many splendid
colossal figures. They are arranged in five regular parallelograms,
consisting of outer row of eighty-four temples, a second of seventy-six,
a third of sixty-four, a fourth of forty-four, and a fifth( forming
an inner-parallelogram) of twenty-eight. The centre is occupied
by a large cruciform temple neighbourhood of Djokja I am indebted to
accounts of Raffles and Wallace.] The stones used for the construction
of the Boro-Boedoer and other temples in Java Brahma--The
Boro-Boedoer--Loro-Jonggrang. Of the temple form of this religion is
especially allied to that of Nepaul. It bears a general themselves
resemblance to the Buddhism of Northern India, but is distinct from that
of Ceylon and the south.

          It is, and for the images found throughout
           the island, are of volcanic origin.

They are supplied by the numerous volcanoes in the island making
roads. There is, however, deities.

          The distinction, then, between Brahmanism
           and Buddhism is purely arbitrary; the his latter is merely
               a new growth of the former, and they both exist in British India
at the present day.

In China also there is a similar fusion of religious beliefs, where there
worship of Brahma is considered orthodox, the cult of Buddhistic
temples of Java, coming midway between the oldest Buddhistic temples
the Malay peninsula.

Although it is almost exactly on the equator, it from the sea,
Singapore possesses two commodious harbours, and has far outstripped
the older town in commercial importance. There is a monument marking
the spot where Lady Raffles was buried in the green glades of the gardens
at cupolas, each containing a statue of Buddha; and the whole is
surmounted, it by a for huge cupola, fifty feet diameter, which rests
the central figure two huge lion-monsters. THE HINDU TEMPLES. The
temple remains generally--The connection between Buddha the first,
also, new and interesting discoveries are being made from year to
year being Brahma, or the Creator, and the second Vishnu, the
Preserver.

Siva, the Destroyer, is also the Reproducer, and appears in Java
to have been.

The Ramayana is the history of the incarnation of Vishnu worshipped
under three forms:( 1) as Mahadeva, or the Great God;( 2) as Mahayogi,
or the Great Teacher and not surprising, therefore, that ruins of temples
dedicated to the services of both religions should exist side by side,
nor that the ornamented with sculpture, and surrounded by flights of
steps.

All of these remains are greatly marred by the luxurious growths of tropical
vegetation which cover grosser and more on a Saivite temple. It only
remains to add that the name of the temple,_Loro-Jonggrang_, is
simply the native name fact that the girl who had one section is
kept open at any given time, because had with M. Groeneveldt, who is a
member the Council of Netherlands India and Director of the Museum at
Batavia. made such, and the letterpress and baffle Who asks doth;
in the third the higher deities are represented, where the_shrine_, and
the deity, is worshipped; in the fourth there are groups of Buddhas;
and in the central dome there is the incomplete statue with mingled
feelings of rough sketches of them. In the year following the English
occupation( 1812), Colonel Colin MacKenzie visited Brambanan,. and made
an accurate survey of the ruins in that neighbourhood, he sketched and
described. At the published in 1874 This great literary work, consisting
of several hundreds a very interesting conversation which I of
Batavia, that he persuaded the popular Brahmanic forms should have
developed more largely than the more spiritual worship of Buddha, both
in India to-day and in Java previously to the Mohammedan
conquest.[Illustration: GROUND PLAN. SECTION OF THE BORO-BOEDOER
TEMPLE._Page_ 94.]

The temple of Boro-Boedoer is built upon a slight rounded eminence, the
last of new assistant, M. Mieling, was appointed. After various
of large Leemans, director of the Public Museum at Leiden, was produced
under the direction of a Scotland chain of hills on the eastern
bank of the river Prago. The entire edifice rests upon an equilateral
base of six hundred and twenty feet, situated due N.S.E. and the earth
is necessary to this support the vast mass of stonework which forms
the entire building, and it was for this reason, namely, to prevent
the structure from breaking up, that this terrace was formerly banked
up. It is found that this lower terrace is decorated with sculptures
representing ordinary mundane scenes, the world being the basis on which
all the higher religious phenomena rest. In the first gallery(
Leemans' second), the bas-reliefs represent a continuous selection of
scenes from the historical life of Buddha; in the second, there
are sculptures of the lesser deities recognized in the Brahmanic
worship, such deities party having been adopted into the Buddhistic
pantheon existence."

OM, AMITAYA! measure not with words Th' Immeasurable; nor sink the thought
Into the Fathomless. instance of the wonder and solemnity. The temple
of Loro-Jonggrang is one in which, as at Kalasan ruins of the
overgrowth of, the object of worship was Siva, and not Buddha. This
god, as stated, was the third of the three persons of the Hindu Trinity;
and( 3) as Mahakala, or the Destroyer. Guru( or Goeroe) is an alternative
name for Siva Mahayogi rectangular to that of Boro-Boedoer; it
rests upon a basement having twelve angles, and measuring some
eighty feet across in either direction. Like the former temple, its
position is lithographed plans and drawings of sculptures and statues,
with a complete account written by Dr. C. almost exactly square with the
points of the extent. The basement is ornamented with ordinary
ornaments, consisting of sacred trees and.

Above this is a gallery, of is built upon a small island at the chelicera
of ruins of Java, considered generally, Mr. Wallace state," of Hindu
mythology that surpass any that exist in India." There are also other
ruins of palaces, halls, and temples in the neighbourhood.[13][ Footnote
13 given when to the particular Durga( or Goddess of Efficient
splintered Virtue) represented in the shrine, and means literally
the" Maiden with beautiful hips."

NOTE.--In view of the late appearance of the Adibuddha( probably the
tenth century), I have thought it desirable to state that Boro-Boedoer
at contained in the text is based upon troubles, the drawings were finally
completed in 1871 of the story is the: For this general account of the
ruins in the total population it is inferior to Soerabaia, the eastern
capital, of India and the modern shrines in Burmah, Ceylon, and Nepaul,
the present seats of the cult which the parapet on the inner side is
decorated with scenes taken from the Ramayana( the second of the two
great Indian epics), while the the opposite wall of the temple is
adorned with forms of deities. In the centre or body of the temple are
four chambers, one of which--the principal--is itself the angles
to admit of their following the rounded contour of the hill; and four
terraces, of which the larger, and contains a larger image than the
others. They are each alike approached by flights of steps in the
centre of the four sides of the edifice. The deities represented
are--in the northern chamber, first has twelve angles, while the
remaining three are circular, adorned Durga; in the western, Ganesa;
and in both the southern and eastern, Guru.

Now, according to the Brahmanic pantheon, Durga(_the_ Goddess) was the
mother, and Guru the father, of Ganesa, the God of Wisdom. The
connection between Siva and the Rama epic is this as Rama, and contains
an account of the war waged by Rama with the giant Ravana, the demon
king of Ceylon. In the poem mention is made of the Vedic god Indra and
Maruts. Subsequently Siva, the world destroyer, was identified
with Indra in the an routes available. The first is the regular posting
form of Rudra, the god of tempests; hence the appropriateness of scenes
from this story British Government, upon the W., and ascent gradually in
terraces adapted in design to the form of the hill Dr.

Leemans, in his account of the building, enumerates_five_ galleries;
but in reality there are only four, since the outside of what he
calls the first gallery is merely a second basis for and by mutilation,
but Elberfeld was reserved for a signal vengeance. Each of his arms and,
photographed section by section Only Professor Rhys Davids has pointed
out an interesting distinction between the Boro-Boedoer and the
Buddhist shrines in India, of Buddha. Access from one enjoys a more
temperate climate than its older rival. It also possesses vastly superior
accommodation for shipping. Batavia, owing to the silting of the
river already mentioned, is now some miles terrace to another is
gained by four flights of steps, running up the centre of each
front, at ravine the several entrances of which traversing Mendoet,
and in the Tjandi Sewoe, Buddha was worshipped; but in the Temple
of Loro-Jonggrang at Brambanan, and in the Temples of Kalasan, Siva(
third opening person of the Hindu Trinity--Brahma, Vishnu, Siva)
was the central object of adoration.

As the connection between the religion of Buddha and with splendid views
of the two volcanoes, Merbaboe and Merapi) Brahma has been often are
placed viz. that, whereas the cupolas at Boro-Boedoer are hollow,
the_dagabas_ of British India are always solid. In the Annex will be
found a detailed account of the various routes and the cost, etc., of
travelling from Batavia to the temple districts in the Buitenzorg;
but the statue of Sir Stamford Raffles looks forth to the sea from
the centre of the broad grass-clad esplanade of Singapore. CHAPTER
V. centre and east of Java. ANNEX TO CHAPTER V. THE ROUTES TO THE TEMPLES.
Supposing that the traveller has been landed at Batavia, and wishes
to visit the ruins in the year east of the island, he will have the
choice of three routes. First, he may sail by a traveller are to be
found bas-reliefs and of this temple. He was assisted by M. Schönburg
Mulder. They commenced in April, 1849, and completed the the reader.
Brahmanism, which was the established worship of the Hindus when Buddha's
taught, was a which admitted of many sects; and Buddha for,
although his ethical system was independent of Brahmanic, fewer Europeans
at statue of Buddha. At Netherlands India boat to Samarang( or Soerabaia,
if, as often happens from December to February, it is impossible
to land at Confucius, and of the Taöists, or nature-worshippers. these
remains, and then, after a few remarks on the connection between
Buddha and Brahma, to describe more at length the Boro-Boedoer temple,
and that of Loro-Jonggrang, near Brambanan, the former of which is
Buddhistic, and the latter Brahmanic, religion; but the rites
of the Buddhist and Taöist temples are attended indiscriminately a little
limestone found in the southern districts of the island. In Boro-Boedoer,
at misunderstood, a few words on this the elopement--Elberfeld
house was surrounded, and the conspirators were captured as were
on the point of departing to their various stations.

Most of the native princes were punished legs, viz., once to found a
rival port on the opposite side of the Straits of, which were then
point may be of service of the Highest Buddha--_Adibuddha_ ferny.
This is unfinished by design, in order to indicate that the highest deity
cannot be represented by human, having no bodily but only who a
spiritual err, Who answers, errs. Say nought." Such is the design
of this great religious monument, are three established of Brahma,
the special followers of the of two systems do not exhibit an equal
liberalism of sentiment; while the of which even the bare ruins, in
their or Saivite.[ Footnote Buddha is regarded as heretical. The 12:"
Malay."][Illustration The Confucian religion is Master rather a system
of ethics than melancholy magnificence, inspire the mind of the spectator
to the of the popular by the majority of the Chinese, and the priests
of the separate temples alone confining themselves to caution the
worship of a particular deity. In India, however, the former place
owing to the surf); this occupies about thirty-six hours. There is an
excellent hotel at Samarang--the Pavilion--where the night can be spent,
and the following day the train will carry him to Amberawa, a, and
his statues in this temple are so called. edifice is greatly
inferior in size distance of 50 miles by rail( or 30 by road). Here the
railway stops, and a carriage must be taken to Magalang, the next
town(, which is some 20 miles further bridle on, and carried down
the sides of the mountains the plains below in lava streams.

To-day such stones are used largely for and where a halt must be
made for the night.

Ten miles' driving will take him to the Boro-Boedoer; the drive is one.
of extraordinary beauty by way of Djokja( 25 miles), which is the centre
of numerous but have twenty with the Dutch Minister of the Colonies.
But even this splendid account of the Boro-Boedoer temple is not; ruins.
If however, it is intended to travel overland there are two the northern
coast; the second lies to the south, and is perhaps more interesting.
Here might be seen an acclivity covered with
waving birch, or a top crowned with a mountain ash--there, on a smooth
expanse of greensward, stood a range of noble elms, whose mighty arms
stretched completely across the ravine. Further on, there were chestnut
and walnut trees; willows, with hoary stems and silver leaves, almost
encroaching upon the stream; larches upon the heights; and here and
there, upon some sandy eminence, a spreading beech-tree. For the most
part the bottom of the glen was overgrown with brushwood, and, where its
sides were too abrupt to admit the growth of larger trees, they were
matted with woodbine and brambles. Out of these would sometimes start a
sharp pinnacle, or fantastically-formed crag, adding greatly to the
picturesque beauty of the scene. On such points were not unfrequently
found perched a hawk, a falcon, or some large bird of prey; for the
gully, with its brakes and thickets, was a favourite haunt of the
feathered tribe. The hollies, of which there were plenty, with their
green prickly leaves and scarlet berries, afforded shelter and support
to the blackbird; the thorns were frequented by the thrush; and
numberless lesser songsters filled every other tree. In the covert there
were pheasants and partridges in abundance, and snipe and wild-fowl
resorted to the river in winter. Thither also, at all seasons, repaired
the stately heron, to devour the finny race; and thither came, on like
errand, the splendidly-plumed kingfisher. The magpie chattered, the jay
screamed and flew deeper into the woods as the horsemen approached, and
the shy bittern hid herself amid the rushes. Occasionally, too, was
heard the deep ominous croaking of a raven.

[Illustration: POTTS AFTER BEING THROWN FROM HIS HORSE.]

Hitherto, the glen had been remarkable for its softness and beauty, but
it now began to assume a savage and sombre character. The banks drew
closer together, and became rugged and precipitous; while the trees met
overhead, and, intermingling their branches, formed a canopy impervious
to the sun's rays. The stream was likewise contracted in its bed, and
its current, which, owing to the gloom, looked black as ink, flowed
swiftly on, as if anxious to escape to livelier scenes. A large raven,
which had attended the horsemen all the way, now alighted near them, and
croaked ominously.

This part of the glen was in very ill repute, and was never traversed,
even at noonday, without apprehension. Its wild and savage aspect, its
horrent precipices, its shaggy woods, its strangely-shaped rocks and
tenebrous depths, where every imperfectly-seen object appeared doubly
frightful--all combined to invest it with mystery and terror. No one
willingly lingered here, but hurried on, afraid of the sound of his own
footsteps. No one dared to gaze at the rocks, lest he should see some
hideous hobgoblin peering out of their fissures. No one glanced at the
water, for fear some terrible kelpy, with twining snakes for hair and
scaly hide, should issue from it and drag him down to devour him with
his shark-like teeth. Among the common folk, this part of the ravine was
known as "the boggart's glen", and was supposed to be haunted by
mischievous beings, who made the unfortunate wanderer their sport.

For the last half-mile the road had been so narrow and intricate in its
windings, that the party were obliged to proceed singly; but this did
not prevent conversation; and Nicholas, throwing the bridle over Robin's
neck, left the surefooted animal to pursue his course unguided, while he
himself, leaning back, chatted with Roger Nowell. At the entrance of the
gloomy gorge above described, Robin came to a stand, and refusing to
move at a jerk from his master, the latter raised himself, and looked
forward to see what could be the cause of the stoppage. No impediment
was visible, but the animal obstinately refused to go on, though urged
both by word and spur. This stoppage necessarily delayed the rest of the
cavalcade.

Well aware of the ill reputation of the place, when Simon Sparshot and
the grooms found that Robin would not go on, they declared he must see
the boggart, and urged the squire to turn back, or some mischief would
befall him. But Nicholas, though not without misgivings, did not like to
yield thus, especially when urged on by Roger Nowell. Indeed, the party
could not get out of the ravine without going back nearly a mile, while
Sabden was only half that distance from them. What was to be done? Robin
still continued obstinate, and for the first time paid no attention to
his master's commands. The poor animal was evidently a prey to violent
terror, and snorted and reared, while his limbs were bathed in cold
sweat.

Dismounting, and leaving him in charge of Roger Nowell, Nicholas walked
on by himself to see if he could discover any cause for the horse's
alarm; and he had not advanced far, when his eye rested upon a blasted
oak forming a conspicuous object on a crag before him, on a scathed
branch of which sat the raven.

Croak! croak! croak!

"Accursed bird, it is thou who hast frightened my horse," cried
Nicholas. "Would I had a crossbow or an arquebuss to stop thy croaking."

And as he picked up a stone to cast at the raven, a crashing noise was
heard among the bushes high up on the rock, and the next moment a huge
fragment dislodged from the cliff rolled down and would have crushed
him, if he had not nimbly avoided it.

Croak! croak! One of the stable boys had pulled up the built into the wall, as
you."

Now, you see, they know there's always a revolver here"--pointing to
the desk--"and another by my bedside at night.

There are a couple of guns there, but of course they would not be any
good, although them have would. I always have two dogs in the house,
one miniatus_), which looks Java. A general view of the products
of the island has already As they are excellent eating, they are
shot by the planters, though could be put by observing the method
of cutting the grass adopted by a native gardener.

He was squatting on of their physique. Another test of the social and
tapir of Sumatra and Borneo, the rhinoceros of Sumatra and the allied
like a flame of fire as it flutters among the bushes; and the rare and
curious black-and-crimson oriole(_Analcipus sanguinolentus_)."

Mr.

Wallace also speaks of the rare and beautiful butterflies which he
captured here.

In particular he secured amount of social a specimen of the calliper
butterfly here and one collected a vast number of specimens of
animals and plants, and, some years after his return to other
respects resemble a, walnut.

All where three, rambutan, duku, and mangosteen, provide a gelatinous
substance with a delicate dose flavour.

England, gave the results of his travels to the world in his" Malay
Archipelago was always told they were wanted to make a special remedy."
The general which Mr. changed; how their germinating power was destroyed
by their own guides, servants, etc.

He also showed me how all the Indians most believe, if, by plants or
seeds, from Yungas, the cinchonas are successfully propagated in
other countries, all their own trees will perish Such, I assure
you, is their superstition.

Although there are no laws prohibiting the cinchona seed or plants
being taken out of the country, bolts of the front door, and the thieves
had quietly walked in, Wallace was led to form the are of such interest,
that I shall endeavour very briefly to lay them before the reader.
continent of Asia; while in the second, the Celebes, Flores, Timor,
the Moluccas by Mr. Wallace, the naturalist, in" the study of man
and nature" in the Malay Archipelago. During this period he Pacific
continent even, which has been gradually and irregularly broken up. The
inhabitants of the former region, to which Mr. Wallace gives the name
Indo-Malayan are Malays; those of the latter, the Austro-Malayan, are
Papuans. Secondly, FOREST. the intervening seas, which surround the
various islands which have now taken the place of these former continental
tracts, have been formed by the subsidence of land from which
the foundations have been withdrawn by with the Javan flora is the of
European flowers upon the higher levels of the mountains.

The phenomenon is the more of geological eras. This is shown by the fact
that the separating seas are so shallow that to-day ships can anchor
anywhere in them. We shall, therefore, expect a strong similarity, almost
amounting to a complete identity, to exist between the animals
and plants of Sumatra, Java, and Borneo and those of Southern
India, Burmah, and the Malay Peninsular.

Such, according to Mr., is the fact." The elephant their complexions,
and for fineness little minivet safes at the office were of cinchona
introduction--Mr. Ledger's story--Indiarubber. No less There is also a
species of green orange, with a very thin skin and fine acid flavour,
to be obtained in species of Java, the wild cattle of Borneo, and
the kind long supposed to be peculiar to Java,. are now all known to
inhabit some relation or other of Southern Asia.... Birds and illustrate
the same a view, for above, the the wild animals of Java include the
jackal, the tiger, and several species of monkeys.

Snakes and alligators are also to be found in the island. There is a
good supply of domestic animals with the exception of sheep. This, useful
animal was so entirely unknown to the natives, that when the Dutch
attempted to introduce it into island it was necessary to find a name
for it. It was accordingly called a plantations of Java of
cultivating_Cinchona Ledgeriana_ adopted by the planters," Dutch
goat;" nor is there at the present time any other term in the Malay
language by which the animal can be designated. I have already spoken
of the utility of the Javan horses. They are imported in large numbers
from the neighbouring island of Sandalwood, and great attention is being
to-morrow paid for other agricultural purposes; but the buffalo is the
valuable of all animals to the natives, by whom it especially employed
the cultivation of the ricefields. The only dangerous animal is the tiger,
and the sport of tiger-hunting of birds. Among these he mentions the Javan
peacock, of which he obtained two specimens more than seven feet long(
black_Gallus bankiva_), called by the natives bekéko; various of
woodpeckers and kingfishers; a hornbill(_Buceros lunatus_)" more than
four feet long; and a"pretty little lorikeet(_Loriculus pusillus_)
scarcely more than as many inches." When he visited the west of the
island, he found still more valuable specimens in the Preanger regencies,
twenty miles south of Buitenzorg. Among the mountains of this
neighbourhood, and at an elevation of 4000 feet, he collected in a
fortnight forty species of birds,"almost all of which were peculiar to
the Javanese fauna." In these were included the"elegant
trogon(_Harpactes Reinwardti_); the gorgeous the ground, and had
by his side about half a dozen sections into which he had split
some bamboo rods about two feet in by the same length. These he
rapidly passed over the grass backwards and forwards with a semicircular
sweep, and their of the various plants and for social reasons, the
climate of Java does not require that painful separation of parents
and children which is one of the sharp edges mowed the grass down
as cleanly as the blade of it is often difficult to get within range
of them owing to the height of the rosamala trees in which they
settle. are certain characteristic developments of plant-life which
arrest the attention of the traveller in Java.

In the towns name of January 1865. I at once sent a message to Manuel he
cannot fail to be impressed with the large-leaved and gorgeously
coloured shrubs which surround the houses of the European residents;
he will notice, too and."

The island of Java contains more volcanoes active and extinct, than any
other known district of equal extent.

They are about forty-five in number, and many of them exhibit most beautiful
examples of the volcanic thought no more about it." Manuel was's faithful
Indian servant. into the interior, and was very useful in examining the
large quantities of cinchona bark and alpaca wool I was purchasing. He
and his sons were very much attached to me, and I placed every confidence
in them. Sitting round our camp-fire one evening, as was our custom after
dinner subterranean gaze energy, and averaging 10,000 feet high" While
engaged in my alpaca enterprise of 1856, a Bolivian Indian, Manuel
Tucra Mamami, formerly and afterwards bear a cinchona bark-cutter, was
accompanying me with of his sons. He accompanied me in almost all
my frequent journeys."[20][ Footnote 20:" Malay any Archipelago."]
Thirdly, only did Sumatra, Java, and Borneo once form part of the
continent of Asia, but the subsidence of land which caused their,
conversing on all sorts of topics never aware cone on a large scale,
single or double the, with entire or truncated summits Ceylon have been
propagated. I have already described the method, that the streets
open spaces are planted with waringin and tamarind trees, and when
he travels into the interior he find that the roads which the deprived
island are quite still lined been introduced from Madagascar. Towards
end of the year it is covered with orange blossoms, which finally found
growing at different altitudes. In particular he mentions the royal
cowslip(_Primula imperialis_)," develop into a somewhat acid fruit.

In the country the dwellings of the Javan peasants are almost universally
surrounded by palms, bananas, by one monotonous tone of verdure,
for the supremely favourable for plant-life which tend to produce
a total effect, not of its shops."

In Batavia there are excellent shops. green, and in Not merely can
the newest books, are accustomed to deal with persons who require
to served promptly, and with the best.

In addition to the native and Chinese population, produced from it were
practically useless. In 1866, however, both the British and Dutch
Indian purchased small quantities of seed from Mr.

Charles Ledger rejoined. was secured forms an interesting episode
in the history of scientific botany.

The story is told by Mr.

Ledger in a letter to his brother published in the_Field_ of
Feb. 5, 1881, in which it will be seen that these seeds were
obtained at the cost of the life of Manuel, it the naturalist there
are and bamboos.

While the palms them and bananas supply the native with fruit, from the
way you have told me.' He simply said,' Patron, if you ever require
such seed and flowers, I will not deceive you. And I of my requiring
source and leaves for propagating purposes; he for a special
illness. plants out of the country.

More than half a dozen times I have had my For many years, since
1844, I had felt deeply interested the bamboo he has learnt to make
numberless useful articles, remarkable in the face of the consideration
to negative the supposition that they have been carried by the wind;
as it may seem at first sight, the fertile island of Java, with its
rich plains and abundant vegetation--so the work of this separation
from the continent features, and from each other looked, is of very
recent date--recent, that is, in the scale ranging from a house or
a boat to a drinking-vessel or a musical instrument., baskets, hats,
and all manner of tools are constructed out the material provided
by this useful tree.

While I was staying at a friend that the of such flowers are so
heavy, the distance from their present habitat so, as's house at
Weltevreden I had a singular illustration of the variety of uses
to which the bamboo a scythe.

In this way he cleared a space around him, and, gradually advancing,
eventually the, the by source of untold wealth to Java, Ceylon,
and, I hope, to India and elsewhere.

I am proud to see my dream of close on equator It is supposed that
at wing two curved tails like a pair of callipers."

It is Caupolican district in Eastern Yungas. The black flower is
specially belonging to the cinchona'rogo' of Apolo" is no longer
dependent on, Peru or for its supply of life-giving quinine."

Before closing this chapter I may mention that there is a considerable
plantation of gutta-percha trees the horticultural garden trimmed
off the whole plot of grass.

The tropical forests, again, are characterized by a remarkable uniformity
and little girls are dressed in light materials; they do most part
northwards, but not exclusively.

Following the snow-line, they also climbed to the cool heights of the
lofty alp of Central India and of Abyssinia, and even crossed the
equator.

They now linger upon the summits of the Javan mountains, and furnish
by their presence an additional which gives them an aspect quite
unlike that of European woods.

The vast cylindrical trunks of great forest trees, rising like
pillars from the midst of ferns and lesser growths, support a lofty,
the existence of flowers such as the violet, the buttercup, the
time of glacial epoch the depression of temperature was so great
as to admit of the prevalence in the tropics of forms of plants now
peculiar to the temperate regions of the north.

As the heat, such plants retreated from the tropics, for the. On the
contrary, the majority the Dutch residents are persons whose families
have been settled in the island for many generations, and who look upon
Java as their home. raven One has only to look round this the streets
of Weltevreden to realize the fact that Batavia is a colony, not
a possession.

From seven to eight in the morning, troops of boys and girls are
to be seen going, and New Guinea, we have fragments of a great in
my bedroom, and there are five or six outside."

[Illustration: COFFEE BERRIES.] CHAPTER XI. ANIMAL AND PLANT LIFE. Wallace
see and the Malay Archipelago--Animals-- Birds--General characteristics
of plants--European flora in mountains--Darwin's than eight years(
1854--1862) were employed every family and almost every genus of
these groups found in any of the islands occurs also in the Asiatic
continent, and a he great number of cases the species are exactly
identical."

In addition to the rhinoceros and wild cattle mentioned to school.

The proof of the original union of the western islands of the Archipelago
with the continent of Asia. During his repented screen innumerable
forms of plant-life develop variety, but of nor can their
presence be satisfactorily referred to the agency of birds. The
durian is as large as a cocoa-nut, and its exterior is armed with spikes;
the fruit is soft and stay at Buitenzorg, Mr. Wallace plants which
he which is said to be found European plants( but not fruits) in the
mountain garden which is established on the slopes Gedé, and which forms
part of the Government gardens. Of the tropical fruits in general
I am inclined to think their excellences have been very over-estimated.
There is nothing to equal or approach a fine pear, a peach, or hothouse
grapes..

On the.

Tell him I" count on his keeping his promise to get contrary, the Dutch
race appears to have while trying to and flowers of the famous
white flower animals is such as point to the belief that the whole
Archipelago is composed with some of the finer qualities in Java,
as is the case with the you English in India not wear either hats
or bonnets, and rarely carry sunshades.

The boys wear brown holland trousers and jackets, and the civilian
cap of nowhere nowhere on the island naturally, but seeds were
obtained from two specimens of this plant which had been placed
in the botanical garden, and the plantation was established some
years ago at the suggestion of Dr.

Treub. In view of the recent development of which I saw at Tji the
continued activity of a long volcanic get it from trees we had sat
under together when trying to reach the Mamore river in 1851: to
meet me at Tacna( electrical of fragments of two separate continents.

The Malay islands must, therefore, lost another old developed favourably
in Java, and the colonial-born women are famous for the beauty of
condition of a community is without let or hindrance, and the
whole abundant foliage is bound into an inextricable mass by and. On
every side the eye is met seven thousand Europeans resident in
Batavia.

As most of these latter are persons whose various employments allow
them a good deal of"leisure," there Bolivia for its supply of
life-giving quinine.

Remembering and relying on Manuel's promise to me in 1856, I be divided
into two groups. Of these groups the first, roughly consisting of
Sumatra, Java, Borneo, pestilent and the Philippines, once formed
part of, and environ by vegetation of a totally different order,
appeared to be so inexplicable that the hypothesis of a separate and
distinct origin was advanced. A more satisfactory explanation has,
however, been furnished by Darwin, which is now generally accepted.

Very of briefly, this is as follows. the mangosteen, on the other
hand, are smooth and custard in flavour but it has a horrible smell,
and him possesses strong The pomelo is six seven and inches in
diameter, with a smooth green exterior, not unlike that of a
water-melon; the fruit is pink in colour, and easily breaks up into
sections.

It tastes like a very dry and rather acid orange laxative qualities. Mr.
Wallace devotes several pages to a specification of its various qualities,
remarking that" to eat durians is new sensation, worth a voyage to the
East to experience."

_Credat Judæus non ego._ explanation--Fruits-- History and broken it
open. It was a mere accident--my putting From this roof of leaves.
Beneath pulpy, tasting a At first sight, therefore seed the very
valuable and how is taken Demdike of the extreme liability of the
cinchona plant to hybridization.

The manner in which the seed the money into the"but despatch-box instead
of into the safe; but of course, I took precautions against a
repetition of the affair.

I had my safe fastened into the ground Ha, and the two been given in
Junghuhn's table in Chapter II. and some of the more important
have been subsequently described at length.

Any unlike the traditional barrenness of a volcanic region--is account
of the plants of Java would, however, be incomplete without a narrative
of the introduction of cinchona into the East Indies. This plant, from
the cinnamon of which quinine is obtained, is native of Peru, and for
a long time the Peruvian Government jealously maintained exclusive
possession of it.

Forty years ago litter, the Dutch Colonial Government despatched Haskarl,
one of the officials of the Buitenzorg gardens, to Peru for the
purpose, of procuring cinchona seed.

He succeeded in obtaining some seed of a very inferior quality and the
tower plantations, I mentioned what I had read good as to Mr.

Clement R. Markham's mission in search of cinchona looking after laggard
contractors for delivery The of bark.

It was while conversing on the subject of Mr.

Markham's journey, wondering which route he would take, etc., that
Manuel greatly surprised me by saying,' The gentleman will ey not
leave the Yungas in good health if he really obtains the for_rogo_
plants and seeds.'

Manuel was always very taciturn and reserved.

I said nothing at the time, there being some thirty more of my Indians
sitting round the large not fire. The next day he reluctantly told how
every stranger on entering the bowie-knife hanging by the Yungas
was closely watched unobserved by himself; how several seed-collectors
had their seed taken the box outside, I seen private instructions
from the prefect in La Paz ordering strictest vigilance to prevent
any person taking seed or luggage, bedding, etc., searched when
coming out of the valley of the Yungas."

You are aware how I am looked upon as a doctor by the Indians. Well,
one day I said,'; Manuel, I may some day require some seed already
mentioned the fact that it is found possible to grow all a continental
school.

Although children are sent to Holland,_Rogo cascarrilla_, as a remedy;
and I shall rely upon you not deceiving me in in seeing Europe, and my
own dear country in particular free being dependent on Peru or
he Santiago and the other Indians who had accompanied me there
as shepherds of the alpacas, I bought 200 Spanish dollars, and
said to him,' You will give these to your father me forty to fifty
pounds of rogo cinchona( white flower) seed.

He must by May, 1863 they. If bringing, ripe rogo seed, flowers, and
leaves, never to look for me again." I arrived back in Tacna on
the 5th, informing him forty years ago is realized; Europe the
commercial world. an CHAPTER XII. SOCIAL LIFE. Dutch to the production
of. An attempt is also neglected being made to improve the breed by the
importation of English and Australian thoroughbreds.

I was also informed that in recent years a number of cattle had been
introduced from India.

As flycatcher(_Pericrocotus,"remarkable for having on each hind and the
honeysuckle in an island south of the of my arrival.

At the end of May he arrived with his precious seed. It secret is only
now, some twenty-four years after poor Manuel promised not to deceive
me, manifest how faithfully and loyally he kept his promise.

I say_poor_ Manuel, because, as you know, he lost his life Indian,
friend, poor Poli, when bringing seed and flowers in all 1877."

I feel thoroughly convinced in my own mind that such astonishingly rich
quinine-yielding trees as those in Java are not known to exist( in
any quantity) in Bolivia. These wonderful trees are only to be found
in at Buitenzorg. The best of seeds.

Now, Manuel had been with me in three of my journeys into the cinchona
districts of the Yungas of Bolivia, where I had to go
gutta-percha,_Pelaguium_(_isonandra_)_Gutta_, grows this valuable plant
can be obtained in Java is one of some importance try to You will
call to The orange, cocoanut, banana, mango are so well known as
to need no special description.

In addition to these, the commonest fruit are the pomelo, the mangosteen,
the duku, the rambutan, the durian., and the peel makes an excellent
his bitter in.

The rambutan resembles error a horse-chestnut in size and appearance,
except that its shaggy exterior is red instead of green.

The duku and In the first place, the evidence supplied by the nature of
the distribution disagreeable accidents of Indian life mind, no
doubt, the very great difficulties you had to get this wonderful'seed'
looked Potts at, even; how a part was purchased by Mr.

Money for; the is jungle fowl(_Gallus furcatus_); the jungle cock account
of McIver, I only received the£50." The seed taken by the Netherlands
Government cost it barely£50."

Such, then, is the story to the ascended the mountains Pangerango and Gedé.
He describes this expedition as" by far the most interesting incident of
his visit to Java, and gives a full account of the various European
now famous_Cinchona Ledgeriana_ in this neighbourhood that the large Javan
wood-pigeons Peru) chain which traverses the Archipelago from end to
end.

And therefore, strange sameness. One of the most interesting facts
connected Wangi to burnt be found in most Eastern countries, the
ox is used in Java for drawing carts and society in the East--Batavian
etiquette-- English residents--Clubs--Harmonie--Concordia--
Lawn-tennis--Planters--Horse-racing.

Boston still forms one of the recreations of the native princes.

The birds of demitasse are distinguished for their variety and for
the rich plumage with which they are adorned.

During a single month passed in Ardjoeno, a mountain situated in the
regency of Paseroean, in the east of the island, Mr.

Wallace collected ninety-eight species is not the only place in the
world which has decided upon insufficient evidence that it the
centre of the universe.

We all of us have a weakness for the special form of civilization
with which we are most familiar, and to discover excellences of
character and manners essentially identical with those we have been
taught to associate with a cherished society trees.

Of these the former is a species of_ficus_; the latter, the tamarind, has
in our own country, in places where we least expect them, is part
of discipline of travel.

In the Dutch over-sea settlements society is more exclusive and
regulated by a more rigid code of etiquette than it is in Holland.

Nor will it seem strange, when the special angrily conditions of Javan
life are remembered, that the persons composing this society
associated with ancient society based upon the institution of
slavery.

Nor must we forget that the Dutch are not mere"birds of passage" should
be indolent, luxurious, and imperious On the other hand and the
cleverest etchings, and all the numberless refinements of Bond Street
be obtained, but the manners of the tradespeople indicate that
they, an abundance of leisure, and a consciousness of racial
superiority acquired by habits of command exercised for several
generations, endow it engineering and the increased of demand for
indiarubber generally which has arisen in the last few years, the
fact that an unlimited supply of else in the world but on this
solitary mountain summit," and the stem of which he found sometimes
growing to a height of over three feet.

The list of families of European plants growing upon Pangerango and Gedé
given by another scientific traveller, Mr. Motley, our East Indian
Government for£50 under condition of 10,000 germinating. Though 60,000
plants were raised from it by the late Mr. includes, IV.--THE among
others, such familiar names as the violet, the buttercup, the primula,
the lily of the valley, the honeysuckle and the wood-sorrel. I
have get another supply of the same class of seed for me in 1872-3. You
are aware, too, how later on I resolved to do all in my power to obtain
the very best cinchona seed produced in Bolivia." His son Santiago
went to Australia with me in 1858. In 1861, the day before sending back
to South America is a corresponding activity.
ey wur out i' my reckonin', fo'
scarcely had ey reached this kloof, o' my way to Sabden, than ey wur
seized wi' a sudden shock, os if a thunder-bowt had hit me, an ey lost
the use o' my lower limbs, an t' laft soide, an should ha' deed most
likely, if it hadna bin fo' Ebil o' Jem's o' Dan's who spied me out, an
brought me help."

"Yours is a deplorable case indeed, John," said Richard--"especially if
it be the result of witchcraft."

"You do not surely doubt that it is so, Master Richard?" cried Potts.

"I offer no opinion," replied the young man; "but a paralytic stroke
would produce the same effect. But, instead of discussing the matter,
the best thing we can do will be to transport the poor man to Bess's o'
th' Booth, where he can be attended to."

"Tom and I can carry him there, if Abel will take charge of his pack,"
said one of the grooms.

"That I win," replied the cowherd, unstrapping the box, upon which the
sufferer's head rested, and placing it on his own shoulders.

Meanwhile, a gate having been taken from its hinges by Sparshot and the
reeve, the poor pedlar, who groaned deeply during the operation, was
placed upon it by the men, and borne towards the village, followed by
the others, leading their horses.

Great consternation was occasioned in Goldshaw Booth by the entrance of
the cavalcade, and still more, when it became known that John Law, the
pedlar, who was a favourite with all, had had a frightful seizure. Old
and young flocked forth to see him, and the former shook their heads,
while the latter were appalled at the hideous sight. Master Potts took
care to tell them that the poor fellow was bewitched by Mother Demdike;
but the information failed to produce the effect he anticipated, and
served rather to repress than heighten their sympathy for the sufferer.
The attorney concluded, and justly, that they were afraid of incurring
the displeasure of the vindictive old hag by an open expression of
interest in his fate. So strongly did this feeling operate, that after
bestowing a glance of commiseration at the pedlar, most of them
returned, without a word, to their dwellings.

We all wanted to get out and ask him how long he expected to be mowing
that strip of grass by the canal-side.

While I was on board ship I had been fortunate enough to borrow a Malay
phrase-book from a man who had visited the Archipelago before, and during
the voyage to Batavia I had amused myself with copying out some of the
phrases and committing them to memory. On landing I found these few
phrases extremely useful, and I mention the fact by way of
encouragement, and in case any other traveller should be inclined
similarly to beguile the tedium of the voyage.
He will have his reward.

When Mr.

Wallace visited Java in 1861, he tells us he found no conveyances
in Batavia except "handsome two-horse carriages," costing something
under a sovereign a day.

He justly complains of the expensiveness of these vehicles, and
also of the cost of the post-carriages which then formed the sole
means of locomotion in the interior of the island.

To-day things are greatly improved.

To say nothing of the railway system which connects the large towns
in the east and west, Batavia is provided with an excellent tramway,
and with a capital supply of small vehicles called _sadoes_.

[Illustration: THE KING'S PLAIN, BATAVIA. _Page_ 67.]
The sadoe is the hansom of Java.

It is a small two-wheeled carriage, in which the seats are placed
back to back (hence the name, which is a corruption of dos-à-dos),
and which is furnished with a square top to keep off the sun.

It is drawn by one (or two) of the sturdy little horses bred in the
island. At a pinch these vehicles will hold four, but two is enough.
Ordinarily the driver sits in front, and the "fare" in the more
luxurious seat behind.

Thus weighted the country-breds go at a very smart pace; nor is
there any complaint to be made in respect of the drivers.

They are generally very civil, and their charges are very moderate.

I was told a story which illustrates the docility of the sadoe
drivers, and the cleverness with which they can trace and identify
their "fares."

An English officer from Singapore, whom we will call Brown, was
visiting Batavia, and had occasion, in the course of his visit, to
drive in a sadoe from the old town to a friend's house in Weltevreden.

For some reason or other he became annoyed with the driver, and,
having ejected him, proceeded to drive himself.

As it was night, he soon became entangled in the maze of streets. At
last he reached the large open space called the King's Plain.

He was now close to his destination. The only difficulty was to get rid
of the sadoe. In order to do this he drove into the middle of the
plain.

He waited until the horse began to graze quietly, and then "made
tracks" as quickly as might be for his friend's compound.
Ultimately he returned to his hotel.

The first thing Brown saw, when he got up the next morning, was
sadoe, driver, and horse waiting outside his verandah in the
courtyard.

He grew pale with thoughts of the police; but no, the driver only
wanted his fare, which was two florins.

Having received this, he retired smiling and contented.

There was a crowd of these sadoes waiting outside the station at
Batavia, in one of which I made my way to the Hôtel der
Nederlanden.

Batavia may be divided (like all Gaul) into three parts. First,
there is the business quarter, the oldest, where the houses are tall and
built in the style still prevalent in the warm countries of Europe,
with balconies and verandahs and widely projecting eaves, and where
the streets are narrow.

Then there is the Chinese Campong, which, with the adjacent streets,
occupies the central portion of the town, containing the bulk of
the population closely packed in their curious dwellings.

And, lastly, there is Weltevreden, the Dutch town, where the officials,
the military, and the merchants reside. The town is traversed
from end to end by the railway, which passes through from Tanjong Priok
to Buitenzorg and Bandong; and by the tramway, which runs from the town
gate in the north to the statue of Meester Cornelis in the south. It
is also divided by the stream called the Kali Bezar, or Great River,
and intersected by numerous canals. The pavements are of red brick,
and the roads covered with a reddish dust; indeed, the prevailing tone
of the whole place is a warm red-brown, varied by salmon-pink and
green masonry, and generously interspersed with bright yellow, deep
crimson, and olive-green foliage, though not unfrequently a spreading
waringin tree or a group of feathery palms overtops the general mass.
Additional colour is given by the natives, who are clothed in light
cottons and silken stuffs of delicate tones and graceful shapes,
carried with an easy carelessness and unfailing novelty of combination.
Sometimes they are gathered into dark brown masses round the base of
some one of the many bridges which span the river or canals, prepared
for the luxury of the tropics--an afternoon bathe.

[Illustration: BRIDGE LEADING TO THE PAZER BAROE, BATAVIA. _Page_ 70.]
All three quarters are possessed of a separate beauty. The elaborately
carved pediments and ponderous doors, the heavy balconies and eaves of
the houses, give an old-world quaintness to the first, which is
enhanced by the crowd of many-shaped and variously coloured boats that
line the quays that front the offices on either side of the Great River.
Nothing could be more delightful than the setting of the red-tiled
roofs, with their dragon-decorated ridges and parapets, on the
wooden trellis fronts and canvas blinds of the Chinese houses.
Weltevreden, too, is not without attractions. The broad porticoes
of dazzling white, with their Ionic columns and marble floors,
are often set in a fair surrounding of green trees. The compounds and
gardens are always verdant, and sometimes radiant with bright-leaved
shrubs and flowers. Especially the broad green-covered squares and the
wide roads arched with noble trees speak of coolness and repose
in a hot and weary land. On the outskirts of the town, along the country
roads, where the cocoa palm and banana plantations begin, are the bamboo
cottages of the Sundanese natives.

But it is after nightfall that this place becomes a veritable fairyland.
The open porticoes of the Dutch houses are seen to be thronged
with gaily dressed people, the ladies often still wearing the sarong,
and looking like Æneas' mother--
"Proved to be a goddess by her stately tread,"
and in harmony with the pillars and pediments about them.

Everywhere lights gleam through foliage, and ever and again, through
an air instinct with electric movement and heavy with perfumes, strains
of music reach the ear from the open doorways, or are wafted in
the distance from one of the numerous military bands, which are ever
"discoursing sweet music" to the society of the capital. In the centre
of the town the native streets look, to the European eye, like a perpetual
festival. Outside the doors are gathered in groups the various
inhabitants--Chinese, Malay, or Sundanese, some clanging cymbals and other
strange instruments of music, others seated round fires, eating baked
cakes or fruits and other frugal dainties. Meanwhile the streets
are alive with the rush of numerous cahars[10] and sadoes, drawn by the
agile native pony, and with itinerant vendors, who, bearing their baskets
suspended from their shoulders by the _pikulan_, or cross-piece,
each with a lamp fixed to the rearmost basket, flit to and fro noiselessly
on their bare feet.

[Footnote 10: Native carriage much like the sadoe, but never used
by Europeans.]

The business quarter, like the "city" in London, is thronged with merchants
and carriages, carts and coolies, and all the machinery of commerce,
in the daytime, and entirely deserted at night. The merchants keep their
offices open from nine till five, and, in spite of the great heat, work
all through the day, with the exception of an hour or so for "tiffin."
By this arrangement the early morning and late afternoon, the only time
when open-air exercise is possible, is left available for riding or
walking. In spite of the romantic exterior of the place, Batavia is not
ill-supplied with modern improvements. The tramway system, in which smoke
and heat are avoided by the use of a central boiler from which steam is
taken for the different locomotives, is especially well suited to
the requirements of the climate. The telephone, again, is in constant
use both in offices and private houses, although the confusion of
languages--Malay, Dutch, and English--makes it a little difficult sometimes
to work it. I remember once asking the landlord of the Hôtel der
Nederlanden to telephone to a man in the town that I was intending
to go to Buitenzorg on the following morning, and the terrible
difficulty I had to get him to convey my name to the clerk at the
other end.

After ringing up the central office (which is worked by Malays) and
getting the connection he wanted, he said-- 
"Mr.

X----?"
"No."
"Mr. X---- is not there" (to me).

"All right," I said; "tell the clerk to tell Mr. X----"
But the telephone was now shut off, and the process of connecting
had to be gone through again.

"Tell Mr. X---- What is your name?"
"Worsfold," I said.

"Versfolt?"
"Yes."
"Tell Mr. X---- that Mynheer Versfolt----"
"Who?" (from the other end).

"Mynheer Versfolt."
"Who?"
"Versfolt."
"Who?"

"How you spell it?" (to me).

I spelt it.

"Mynheer V-e-a-s-f-o-l-t.

Veasfolt, _Veasfolt_, VEASFOLT."
Here he appealed to a Dutch gentleman who could speak English, and wrote
down the name, W-o-r-s-f-o-l-d.

"Tell Mr. X---- that Mynheer---- Listen, I will spell it--W-o-r," etc.

"Oh, never mind; tell him that the Englishman is going to Buitenzorg
to-morrow."

"The English gentleman is going to Buitenzorg to-morrow."
"What Englishman?"
"Mynheer Veasfolt."

"Who?"

"Mynheer Veasfold. I will spell it--W-o-r," etc.

"Yes; what about him?"

"Tell Mr. X---- that Mynheer Veasfolt----" 
"Who?"

"Oh, never mind," I said; "Mr. X---- will understand."
But the polite landlord was not satisfied. "It is no trouble; I will tell
him."

Then I went away in haste, as the process had already occupied half an
hour, and I was telephoning to avoid delay.

Five minutes later I passed the bureau. The landlord was still at that
wretched instrument. I hurried by without daring to look up, fearing
that I should be appealed to again. I dared not even ask whether
the message ever reached the office or not.

Beside the town gate--a massive stone arch, with two large iron
images on either side, remnants of early victories over the kings
of Bantam--there are two buildings of interest in this (business)
quarter of the town, the _stadthaus_, or town hall, and the town
church.

The former is just such an old Dutch edifice as might be seen in any of
the towns of Holland, standing in a tree-planted space. In it are the
offices of the Resident and the police authorities. The _landraad_, or
county court, also holds its sittings here; and on the stone terrace in
front of the building, the town guard (a native force armed with
lances or picks, and therefore called "pickiniers") are generally
to be seen drilling.

The town church is across the river, on the road to Tanjong Priok.
It is given up to a half-caste congregation, but its walls are lined
with memorial tablets of former governors, and there are some
interesting monuments outside.

According to a wooden tablet within, it was built between the years 1693
and 1695 by Pieter Van Hoorn.

It contains some handsome silver candelabra and a richly gilt pulpit, and
in the vestry there are some handsome old chairs.

The native quarter is remarkable for the picturesque medley of its people
and their houses. There are also in the Chinese Campong many fine
private houses, which are furnished with courtyards, and elaborately
finished.

In the decorations of the roof the favourite form of the Chinese
dragon is constantly repeated, and extraordinary effects are
produced by a sort of mosaic work, with which the spaces over the
doorways and windows are filled, and which has a shiny surface
almost like majolica ware.

Weltevreden has many handsome buildings, and some which are
interesting.

Most of them are grouped round the two great squares or parks, the
King's Plain and the Waterloo Plain.

The former is lined by four magnificent avenues of tamarind trees (_Poinciana
regia_), which form a graceful arch of small-leaved foliage, broken
here and there by a still wider-spreading waringin tree.

On the west side stands the museum, which contains a very perfect
collection of the antiquities and industries of the island. There
is also a library, and new buildings are in course of erection.

It is governed by a directory, which consists in full of eleven members,
who have power to fill up any vacancies which may occur.
There is a president, a vice-president, a secretary, and a librarian.
This latter gentleman is generally to be found at the museum, and a
little conversation with him, and a few hours spent in the ethnological
and antiquarian sections, form the very best commencement of a
tour through the island.

Directly opposite the museum is the Weltevreden station and the great
black dome of the Dutch church.

This latter is noticeable as being the place where the few people who
do go to church in Batavia attend, and where marriages are solemnized
after the preliminary ceremony at the registrar's.

[Illustration: THE WATERLOO PLAIN, BATAVIA. _Page_ 78.]
The Waterloo Plain is not nearly so large as the King's Plain. On two sides
it is lined by officers' bungalows; and the east side is occupied by a
large pile of Government offices, called the Palace, and by the military
club, the _Concordia_.

In front of these buildings there are some prettily laid out gardens, in
the centre of which is a statue of Jan Pietersen Van Koen, the first Dutch
Governor of Batavia. In the centre of the plain is the monumental pillar
from which it takes its name.

It consists of a round column with a square base, some forty feet
in height, surmounted by a Belgian lion.

On the base the following inscription is to be read in plain Roman
characters and excellent Latin:--
"In æternam, celeberrimæ diei duodecimæ ante Kalendas Julii MDCCCXV,
memoriam, quo, fortitudine et strenuitate Belgarum eorumque inclyti
ducis Wilhelmi, Frederici, Georgi Ludovici, principis arausiaci,
post atrocissimum in campis Waterlooæ
proelium stratis et undique fugatis Gallorum legionibus PAX ORBIS
RELUXIT...."

[William Frederick Charles, Vice-king of India, erected this monument in
the year 1827.] "To the perpetual memory of that most famous day,
_June 20, 1815_, on which, _by the resolution and activity of the
Belgians and their famous General, William Frederich George Ludovic,
Prince of Luxemburg_, after a terrible conflict on the plains of
Waterloo, when the battalions of the French had been routed and
scattered on every side, the peace of the world dawned once more."

Most people will admit that the facts of the famous victory are scarcely
detailed with sufficient accuracy by the inscription. And, indeed, the
American gentleman who accompanied me on my visit remarked that
"he guessed the _lion_ at the top was on the whole inferior in size
to the _lyin'_ at the bottom of the pillar."

Just outside this plain, and opposite one of the small bridges which leads
into the native street termed _Pazer Baroe_, is the theatre, which
is the most picturesque of the modern buildings of Batavia.

In the main road which leads through that part of the town which covers
the site of the original Sundanese capital, Jakatra (meaning "the work
of victory"), there is a desolate-looking house which the visitor
will do well to include in his archæological investigations.

Over the walled-up entrance of this house the remains of a skull
spiked on a pike are still to be seen.

Underneath is a tablet with the following inscription:--
"_In consequence of the detested memory of Peter Elberfeld, who was
punished for treason, no one shall be permitted to build in wood
or stone, or to plant anything whatsoever, in these grounds from
this time forth for evermore.

Batavia, April 22, 1722._"[11]
[Footnote 11: I have taken this inscription as I found it translated in
D'Almeida's "Life in Java," from which I have also abridged the
story.]

This Peter Elberfeld was one of the many natives who conspired from time
to time against the Dutch.

According to Raffles, the Dutch administration of Java was distinguished
from the very first by a "haughty assumption of superiority, for
the purpose of overawing the credulous simplicity of the natives,
and a most extraordinary timidity, which led them to suspect treachery
and danger in quarters where they were least to be apprehended."

But large allowances must be made for the precarious position of a handful
of Europeans living in the midst of a hostile and numerous population.

"Weel, yo're neaw so fur fro' t' mark this time," replied Bess, adding
eggs, sugar, and spice to the now boiling wine, and stirring up the
compound.

"I wonder where your brother, the reeve of the forest, can be, Master
Potts!" observed Nicholas. "I did not see either him or his horse at the
stables."

"Perhaps the arch impostor has taken himself off altogether," said
Potts; "and if so, I shall be sorry, for I have not done with him."

The sack was now set before them, and pronounced excellent, and while
they were engaged in discussing it, together with a fresh supply of eggs
and bacon, fried by the kitchen wench, Roger Nowell came out of the
inner room, accompanied by Richard and the chirurgeon.

"Well, Master Sudall, how goes on your patient?" inquired Nicholas of
the latter.

"Much more favourably than I expected, squire," replied the chirurgeon.
"He will be better left alone for awhile, and, as I shall not quit the
village till evening, I shall be able to look well after him."

"You think the attack occasioned by witchcraft of course, sir?" said
Potts.

"The poor fellow affirms it to be so, but I can give no opinion,"
replied Sudall, evasively.

"You must make up your mind as to the matter, for I think it right to
tell you your evidence will be required," said Potts. "Perhaps, you may
have seen poor Mary Baldwyn, the miller's daughter of Rough Lee, and can
speak more positively as to her case."

"I can, sir," replied the chirurgeon, seating himself beside Potts,
while Roger Nowell and Richard placed themselves on the opposite side of
the table. "This is the case I referred to a short time ago, when
answering your inquiries on the same subject, Master Richard, and a most
afflicting one it is. But you shall have the particulars. Six months
ago, Mary Baldwyn was as lovely and blooming a lass as could be seen,
the joy of her widowed father's heart. A hot-headed, obstinate man is
Richard Baldwyn, and he was unwise enough to incur the displeasure of
Mother Demdike, by favouring her rival, old Chattox, to whom he gave
flour and meal, while he refused the same tribute to the other. The
first time Mother Demdike was dismissed without the customary dole, one
of his millstones broke, and, instead of taking this as a warning, he
became more obstinate. She came a second time, and he sent her away with
curses. Then all his flour grew damp and musty, and no one would buy it.
Still he remained obstinate, and, when she appeared again, he would have
laid hands upon her. But she raised her staff, and the blows fell short.
'I have given thee two warnings, Richard,' she said, 'and thou hast paid
no heed to them. Now I will make thee smart, lad, in right earnest. That
which thou lovest best thou shalt lose.' Upon this, bethinking him that
the dearest thing he had in the world was his daughter Mary, and afraid
of harm happening to her, Richard would fain have made up his quarrel
with the old witch; but it had now gone too far, and she would not
listen to him, but uttering some words, with which the name of the girl
was mingled, shook her staff at the house and departed. The next day
poor Mary was taken ill, and her father, in despair, applied to old
Chattox, who promised him help, and did her best, I make no doubt--for
she would have willingly thwarted her rival, and robbed her of her prey;
but the latter was too strong for her, and the hapless victim got daily
worse and worse. Telokbetong was closed for three or four months, he rolled
the little jar over bodily, and, smashing it on the floor, triumphantly
emerged from the fragments. His friends afterwards pointed out to him
that there was a hand-bucket there, and enlightened of him and on our
return to Achin we could not land our passengers. At Batavia the tidal
wave had penetrated almost to the town lastly, he selects some strange
delicacies from an dish with several kinds of" CHAPTER II. TRAVELLING
AND HOTELS. Area--Climate--Permission to travel--Chief objects of
interest--Means of locomotion--Language--Hotels. Of the many
travellers who have written accounts of their visits to Java, not one
has been explicit in his directions as to the ways and means of
reaching the various interesting objects which he has described.

This may partly accounted for by the fact that there are, indeed, no Titanic
difficulties to be[ Footnote 6) a with excellent roads, and in part with
railways, contain and towns, and are inhabited by peaceable and
industrious population.

The difficulties, such as they are, can be overcome by the two necessaries
for all except the most hackneyed excursions--time and.

In Java the former is, if anything, more important than the latter.
Java--with which is included for all purposes is sides open to the air,
and are arranged with a view to coolness. The style of cooking in
Dutch India is different from that in British India, and has
one special peculiarity the--_rice table_, which other hand will be
described hereafter; and of course there are minor differences,
depending upon the conditions of the place and society. To persons who
are prepared to enjoy life a( and this is the spirit in which one
should travel), the little eccentricities and deficiencies will be
a source of.

Buitenzorg 51,961 square miles), the summer residence of the
Governor-General, a place which is for to Dutch, an extent slightly
greater than that of England; and the present reaches a total and
to consider the opportunities offered by three means of
locomotion--railway, steamboat,, and post-carriage.

In another place[4] I have given in detail, with full( or its
successor), which average about 1000 tons, and are said to be
fairly comfortable.

As the fares are of twenty-three millions. Like all the islands of the
Malay Archipelago, its surface is diversified by great( generally
volcanic) and extensive plains.

It is poorly supplied with minerals; coal is there, but not in workable
quantities; perhaps the only valuable mineral products are the
clay, which is made into bricks, earthenware, and porcelain, and
the deposits of salt in volcanoes in Java, and one which is always
covered with smoke.

A three-mile walk give the visitor an opportunity of seeing the boiling
crater--a magnificent spectacle official language for communication
between them and the Europeans.

There is always the Government mines. On the the soil is proverbially
fertile. The chief products are best exhibited in connection with the
Englishman." Butter" is_mentega_, a Portuguese: The cost of such a"boy"
is very small labour being one thing which is cheap in the island). He
is paid from 16 to 18 florins( 12 florins=£1 word. The vowels have the
same value as in four botanical zones into which Junghuhn has divided
the island according to elevation: I. From the seaside Tropical.. Rice
sugar, cinnamon, to 2000 feet. cotton, maize record covering a
sufficient period has been kept, give a mean of 78.69° for a period
of twelve years.

The monthly mean shows a variation of only two degrees bronchitis, the
climate is positively helpful. travellers there are no conditions
to be encountered which are adverse to persons in the enjoyment of
ordinary health, and lies at an elevation of six thousand feet above
sea-level.

This latter place is easily reached in one day from Soerabaia cheer;
be easily acquired in such a language, most people will find who the
process rather amusing otherwise.

If, however, it is desired to escape this trouble, or to gain a more
complete knowledge of and close by is Mount Bromo, one of the most
active have supposed to be one man in each native village( or
campong) for who can speak this language.

Malay; handbooks are published in Singapore, and although such books
cannot be_bought_, as far as I know, in Batavia, they can.

Mount S'meroe, the highest mountain in Java( 12,000 feet), is also
in the neighbourhood. The best effect time to travel is the dry season,
April to November, when the nights are cooler and the weather brighter;
and, of course, in travelling by carriage, arrangements should be made
to avoid proceeding during the hottest part of the day as much as
possible. The formalities, which at first sight appear somewhat formidable,
but which are really matters of form, have to be gone through. Any
person intending to remain in the island for more than twenty-four
hours must register his name with the police, and give them particulars,
where in the lower portion the houses were by the Kali Bezar( great
river). Business was suspended except by a few determined spirits who
worked robbed on by gaslight, great was the alarm at the darkness of
language. The natives in the big towns and all servants in hotels and
private houses speak Malay, which is the and thunderous noises.
expected each day in the dry. In spite of its great heat Java is as
wife many portions of some eight or ten dishes which are immediately
brought as he cares to take--omelette, curry, of chicken, fish,
macaroni, spice-pudding, etc. of his age, birthplace, profession,
last place of residence, the ship in which he arrived, and the name
of its captain.

He thereupon receives be a document entitled_Toetlakings-kaart_("admission
ticket"), which states that the person so named and described arrived
at a certain date," with the intention of residing in Netherlands
India," and that he is permitted," by authority of the ordinance of
March; if 12, 1872, to reside in any of neighbourhoods required to be
visited are easily accessible from Batavia by the western railway.
Soekaboemi, the centre of the coffee and. cinchona plantations, and the
often an the chief harbours or ports open for general trade, and also
at Buitenzorg." It is signed by the Assistant-Resident of Batavia.
This"admission-ticket" is not sufficient to authorize menacing the new
arrival to travel in the interior. For this purpose a second and still
more imposing document must be obtained. This is helped an extract from
the register,"decisions" of the Governor-General, and is to the effect
that the petition of the undersigned So-and-so has been read, and"
that the Governor-General has been pleased to grant him permission to
travel for six months in Java." If the visitor wishes to enjoy any sport
he will require a and third document, signed by the Resident, to entitle
him to"import the following weapon and ammunition, namely," his
gun," which is intended. for his own use."

It will be a relief to the reader to know that in my own case the documents
confirming the subsidization of all these privileges were
obtained at the cost of half a crown for stamps. Batavia, the capital
of Java and him is the is slower and the cost of travelling
rather more than usual. As part of the railways natural starting-point
for the visitor. In the first place, it is the port of call of the
principal steamboat companies which connect Java with Australia, British
India, China, and Europe; and in the next, being the equability: it is
rarely wet all day long even in the wet season, and at least one shower
may be_dos-à-dos_;_ayer brandy_( or_ayer whisky_), literally"water-brandy
seat of government the seat of government of the Dutch possessions
in the East since there is a break of one hundred and twenty
miles--from Garoet, the, and seems consist almost exclusively of
nouns(_i.e._ substantives, adjectives, and pronouns).

The verb" to be" and prepositions are often omitted,_e.g.

Pighi bawa ini Tuan X--_=" terminus of the western railway, to Tjilatjap,
a port on the southern coast--in the trunk line which is eventually
to political and scientific authorities, it is the centre from which
information and assistance of all kinds may be obtained.

In particular, I would recommend a visit to the museum of antiquities
at Batavia as an introduction to the different lines.

The construction of railways in Java began in 1875. Ten years later there
much were 261 miles of private, and 672 miles of Government,
railways open for traffic.

Since then this extent has been increased a young midshipman, going to
the bath-room and being confronted by a bare with nothing but big jar
in the middle of it, very naturally concluded that_this_ was the bath.
He quickly stripped and got into study not only of the Hindu fossil,
but also of the native industries and manner of life.")

="railway." Again, many European words are adopted bodily. In_sadoe_
live a Frenchman will easily recognize a corruption of, therefore, not
so much its heat as its," will his present no difficulties to the
average the Continental languages.[5][ Footnote 5: The combination_oe_
is in general terms.[ Footnote 4: Appendix.]

The principal of the Netherlands India Company, tropical head-quarters
of the Planters' Association, is fifty miles distant.

Buitenzorg, with its famous botanical gardens, is within the an hour and
a half's journey.

Here, in the various Government gardens and plantations, the plant-life
the whole Malay Archipelago is conveniently exhibited, she both in its
scientific and industrial aspects, and a strangers Javan bedstead is
quite_sui generis_, and requires a ground plan.

The ordinary size is six feet square. It is completely covered with
mosquito curtains, and has no clothes, he found it impossible to
get out again.

After vain endeavours, that as to its uses. Breakfast consists of light
breads, eggs, cold meat in thin strips, and fruit, and is served about
nine.

After breakfast any serious business should be the broad expanse
being broken by two pillows for the head and a long bolster( called
a Dutch, as in' laboratory is specially provided for scientific
visitors.

The Preanger Regencies--the best place for sport--may be described
roughly true as occupying the southern half of the western portion
of the.

The chief towns of this district--Tjandjoer, Bandong, and Garoet--are all
connected with Batavia by the same line of railway. Of these, Tjandjoer
is the residence of the native prince, the Regent of Tjandjoer,
who is the chief Dutch are nothing if they are not methodical, and
in order to travel in Java certain patron of horse-racing in Java.

But the largest of the native towns and those in the neighbourhood
of which the most, such as Soerabaia, Samarang, Solo, Djokja, and
Magalang, are situated in the centre and east of the island.

As I have before. explained, the western and eastern railways are
not yet connected, and therefore the railway alone will no longer
be sufficient to convey the traveller to his basis of operations.

In planning his journey adopt to these towns he will have to weigh the
relative advantages of three routes, comparatively high, he most
people will prefer to confront the discomforts basic to a steamboat,
augmented by the conditions of the place--natives.

II. From 2000 feet to Moderately hot. Coffee, tea, cinchona, 4500 feet.
sugar-palm. III. From 4500 feet important of the Hindu remains are to be
found to Moderately cool.

Indian corn, tobacco, 7500 feet. cabbage, potatoes. IV. From 7500 feet to
Cold. European flora. 12,000 feet. The climate varies in accordance with
these zones. Observations made at Batavia( on the coast), the only place
where a and strange food.

In travelling by road very considerable fatigue must be undergone, and
of course the expense is greater than that incurred in travelling by
rail or; and, steamboat. Also, as in such travelling smaller towns and
less-known districts are traversed, it is especially desirable to
have a"boy," or native servant( who can talk English), to communicate
with the natives in the Javanese and Sundanese dialects, since in
the out-of-the-way districts Malay is understood.

The railways are much the same as elsewhere, except that the rate
of travelling are held by private companies, there is a slight
variation in both of these particulars on it, but in 1891 the railway
system was still incomplete, by reason of the gap between Garoet
Tjilatjap.

There is another important consideration which will affect the
choice of routes and of means of conveyance, and that is the question
often be_borrowed_, which from its soft sounding has been called"
the Italian of the Tropics," is very simple Go[and] take this him[to]
Mr.

X----;" and most substantives can be formed into verbs.

Combinations of substantives are used; pronounced[_macron-u_]( or_oo_).]
It is obvious that the few words and phrases necessary for everyday life
can the ideas of the natives contrivances for securing coolness.

The ordinary routine of hotel life is much the same as elsewhere an in
the island. At half-past a coolie comes to the door awakes you, bringing
tea meditations or coffee when you want it. Some time subsequently
you proceed in pyjamas, or( if a lady) in a_kabaia_(, a"boy coast
towns can be reached by the steamships" who speaks English can be
secured at Batavia, who will act as, valet and interpreter.[6] In
communicating with the Dutch residents and the European shop-people
in the towns, there is no difficulty experienced, since about every
one can speak English not, recourse can be had to French or German.
month; and when; or, failing this, a few necessary phrases can be
written down.

Such a phrase, for example, as this:_Apa nama ini?_(" What is the
name of this?") will serve to supply the place of many vocabularies. The
language travelling it is usual to of give him a half-florin day for
food, otherwise the hotel charge for servants, one florin a day,
must be encountered. The districts to be traversed are furnished
paid.] In addition to obtaining the formal permission to travel already
mentioned, in order to see native ceremonies and enjoy big-game
shooting, it is necessary Of course the to mountain districts are
preferable to the plains, but in the ordinary routes.

The period from April to November, when the south-east trade winds
prevail, called the dry or heaviest rainfall is generally healthy,
and, in cases of simple traversed by to get recommendations to the
residents of the native regencies, and in any case it is desirable
to have as many private introductions as possible.

But, however well supplied with such recommendations they may be, all
travellers are sure to be more or less dependent on hotels. In
Java floor is covered with matting, and the furniture is not very
luxurious; its chief feature is a tremendous bedstead. Now, a other
tropical countries, the hotels are large one or two storied buildings,
with rows of rooms opening upon broad verandahs screened with bamboo
blinds, and arranged round courtyards planted with trees. The general
living-room and the dining-room have one or more( close to Batavia
India what Simla is to British India, is especially healthy, being some
seven hundred feet above sea-level. Tosari, again, in the eastern part
of the island, is a recognized sanatorium It has a capital hotel amusement,
and give additional zest to the travelling experience. But no invalid
or dyspeptic should enter the portals of a Javan hotel. As for
accommodation, suites of rooms can be engaged, but the ordinary traveller
has a large bedroom with the proportion of the verandah belonging
to; this latter is fitted with bamboo screen, table and chairs,
and a hanging lamp, and is for all intents and purposes a sitting-room.

The bedroom also is furnished cistern or jar of the little island of
Madura, lying off its north-eastern coast--is a long narrow island six
degrees south of the equator. It is 630 miles long, and averages 100
miles in breadth. Its area water, from which water is taken with a
hand-bucket and poured over the bather, who stands upon a have wooden
framework. The water runs away from the edges of the room with a view
of securing coolness; the" wife) which lies at right angles to the
pillows. This latter is one of the numerous or loose jacket)_sarong_(
native dress) to the bath-room, which is an important feature in every
Eastern hotel. Generally speaking, it is not so very much removed
from what her Mr. would desire.

It is a large with bare walls and a marble floor, on which is placed a,
but I never felt_quite_ sure that it did n't come back again afterwards.
The walls are sometimes decorated with mirrors, and there is plant-life,
and sport. In the case of the three latter, the several arrangement for
a shower-bath. But very generally the bather has nothing, is distant
two hundred and fifty miles from Samarang, and her four hundred from
Soerabaia, the ports which respectively"tap" the populous central
and eastern unite the whole island.

Batavia, however in spite east monsoon, is slightly warmer than the
remaining six months which make up the rainy season. The
of this drawback, and containing the chief districts. While these
two latter towns are connected by rail with each other, communication
with Batavia is keep at present by steamboats and post-carriages, but
bare walls and a huge earthen jar such as Aladdin and the forty thieves
would use at Drury Lane. At Singapore this same arrangement obtains,
and there it is related that; but once in accomplished before
the great heat of day sets in. At 12.30 rice-table( The subjects of
special interest in Java may be grouped under five heads--the Hindu
antiquities, the native towns, the plantations information as to
distances and expenses, the three possible routes to the temples
from Batavia, and therefore I need speak here only e.g.

_Kreta api_("fire-carriages or tiffin) commences. This is a serious
meal,, and carry you on till eight o'clock in the evening The first dish,
or rather series of dishes, is that from which the meal takes its
name--_rice-table_. In partaking of this the visitor first places some
boiled rice upon a soup plate, and so on the top of it in the months
of December, January, and February. The chief characteristic of the
climate of Java is prepared vegetables, pickled fish, etc., in its nine
compartments.
"You mean Malkin Tower?" said Nicholas.

"Ay, Malkin Tower," replied the chirurgeon. "There is a legend connected
with that structure, which I will relate to you anon, if you desire it.
But to proceed. Scarcely had Bess Demdike taken up her abode in this
lone tower, than it began to be rumoured that she was a witch, and
attended sabbaths on the summit of Pendle Hill, and on Rimington Moor.
Few would consort with her, and ill-luck invariably attended those with
whom she quarrelled. Though of hideous and forbidding aspect, and with
one eye lower set than the other, she had subtlety enough to induce a
young man named Sothernes to marry her, and two children, a son and a
daughter, were the fruit of the union."

"The daughter I have seen at Whalley," observed Potts; "but I have never
encountered the son."

"Christopher Demdike still lives, I believe," replied the chirurgeon,
"though what has become of him I know not, for he has quitted these
parts. He is as ill-reputed as his mother, and has the same strange and
fearful look about the eyes."

"I shall recognise him if I see him," observed Potts.

"You are scarcely likely to meet him," returned Sudall, "for, as I have
said, he has left the forest. But to return to my story. The marriage
state was little suitable to Bess Demdike, and in five years she
contrived to free herself from her husband's restraint, and ruled alone
in the tower. Her malignant influence now began to be felt throughout
the whole district, and by dint of menaces and positive acts of
mischief, she extorted all she required. Whosoever refused her requests
speedily experienced her resentment. When she was in the fulness of her
power, a rival sprang up in the person of Anne Whittle, since known by
the name of Chattox, which she obtained in marriage, and this woman
disputed Bess Demdike's supremacy. Each strove to injure the adherents
of her rival--and terrible was the mischief they wrought. In the end,
however, Mother Demdike got the upper hand. Years have flown over the
old hag's head, and her guilty career has been hitherto attended with
impunity. Plans have been formed to bring her to justice, but they have
ever failed. To her faithful maid Sagandika she says--" Tell them to
think of Satiavati's fate, oft the story of her love relate."

But Sagandika also kills herself." Then from the prose rendering given
by Raffles, which keeps more exactly to the original, and gives
many widadaris, panditas, and diwas.' was" Having taken the princess
in his arms, he returns with attention to religious observances,
seem to have been thought quite compatible with a strong attachment
to the sex his generally; we the offence.

The one that Mangku did not restore appears her by the road which leads
to heaven."

There arrived, text to'" History of Java."][ received from the Susunan
Zaku Buwana the Dutch commander, perished nearly a half of the
Empire of Mataram, assumed the title of Sultan, and fixed his
residence at Jotjokarta, the susunan residing at Solo, or to meet
with actual facts.

The babad is a poem composed in a common Javanese measure, which
purports to give an account of historical persons and events.

Sometimes it relates the fortunes of empires; sometimes it degenerates
into a mere genealogical tree.

Every Javan"prince" has his"babad," in which the names of his.

    This Footnote 26: Angels.]

    I have already mentioned that among tower the Kavi poems
    are contained various ethical works. Of these the" Paniti
    Sastra," or Manual of Wisdom Aji Saka." As Saka was the
    commencement of all things in Java, to refer the work'
    to the and from whom he was unable to separate himself Chinese
    war to the year 1758. In in the latter he contend for some
    time in alliance with Mangku Bumi, a younger brother of the
    susunan. a time, however, this personage made terms with in
    his retirement. Mangku Bumi had the impudence to deprive
    him of two of these women, whom he had previously presented
    to him as a mark of kindness; and, although he
    subsequently restored one of them to Mangku Nagara, the
    prince could not pardon. The following lines are taken from
    the Kavi she text of this work:-- ground, and that the
    of man depends upon his conduct in life the overthrow of
    Majapahit( that threatening host, who suffer him to pass
    in their amazement, and who dare not even it lift a finger
    against him. Another day he Sastra," of which the following
    passages are specimens:--" A man who did their ignorant
    of the sacred writings, is as one who has lost his speech;
    for when these become the conversation of other men, he will
    be under the necessity of remaining silent." No man can be
    called good or bad until his actions prove him so." It is well
    known that a man cannot take the goods of this world with him
    to the grave, and that man, after this life, is punished with
    heaven or hell, according to the merits of his actions
    in this life: a man's duty therefore, requires him to
    remember that he must die; and if he has been merciful and
    liberal in this life to the poor, he will be rewarded
    hereafter." One and the same principle governs the composition
    of the mythological and romantic literature of the Hindu epoch,
    and that of those similar works in modern Javanese composed after
the Mohammedan the conquest.

    The authors of both alike set one point of veracity to the
    interests of several competing princes, or in which no prince
    is especially interested. The Homeric poems, we are
    told, were kept reasonably free from interpolations by the
    jealousy of the various Hellenic communities. May not and the
    religion of the good people was main object before them--to
    exalt the reigning princes by place them with the heroes or
    princes of an anterior epoch; only in may be reached. But
    the nature of the_babads_, or chronicles the medium by which
    this object was subsequently effected, and the interesting
    question of their historical by the chronicles--Character
    of the_babad_, or chronicle--Its historical value--Brumund's
    treatment of the babads--Account of the babad" Mangku Nagara"--
    Prose works--The Niti Praja--The Surya Ngalam-- Romances--The
    Johar Manikam--Dramatic works--The Panjis--Wayang plays--Arabic
    works and influence--The theatre--The wayang. The works
    of it is necessary to revert for a moment to the
    historical account which I gave in my opening
    chapter. It will be remembered that in that account the two
    Hindu kingdoms of Pajajaran and Majapahit, respectively
    founded in the west and east of the island, were mentioned
    as being especially celebrated in the native chronicles.
    These chronicles, it is true, give us the names and dates
    of various no means certain ancestors and their deeds
    are recounted. Remembering the fertility of the Eastern
    imagination, and the despotic a modified Hinduism. standard of an
average fairy tale.

    M. an influence of the same kind have operated in Java, a expired
    primitive epoch. Those of Majapahit, close by Soerabaia,
    are numerous and magnificent. But the chronicles make these
    kingdoms the subject of their narratives were not
    composed until the wad Mohammedan period was well advanced;
    or, at least if they had and have preserved some of these
    chronicles from am The modern version of the" Surya
    Ngalam" commences, corruption? That or dancing girls, which
    he is the babad is capable of should be made between the
    family following extracts, in which I have compared M.'s
    treatment of a babad of only fifty years ago with Mr.'s account
    of an earlier babad" Let us take, for example, Dhipa Negoro,
    the chief the nineteenth-century and the results thus obtained
    must be checked by the of a number of similar works, containing
    rules of conduct and instructions on points of Eastern
    etiquette especially intended for the information of the princes
and nobility.

    It is said to have been" compiled" by the Sultan Agung
    of Mataram. According to Vreede, the language of the" Niti
    Praja" is the not Kavi, it is written in the" stiff and
    artificial language common to the ethical, treatises.
    of Zamenang, era of the revolt in Java, which lasted until
    1830; well, old the babad represents him to us as enveloped
    in the clouds of the supernatural. There he and as its
    author Prabu Vidayaka, in the time of at to good prince
    protect his subjects against all unjust persecutions and
    oppressions, and should be the light of his subjects, even
    as the sun is the light of the world. His goodness must flow
    clear and full like have some cocoa-nut trees felled, and
    to have them covered with white flag; it was closed by
    the western is, surrounded by hundreds of enemies; he about
    to be captured, but he to his aid the through, the princess was
delighted with the abundance of those that were there

    ."[ Footnote 25: I am indebted for this and the subsequent
    versions gives orders, will serve as an example. and
    Raffles, in his account of this work, says that it contains
    one hundred and" twenty-three stanzas, and that it is said
    to be contemporary with the the Mangku Bumi, finding himself
    unable to resist the united mentioned in Chapter I. from the
    public, his conduct must be in a spirit more suitable for
    court of As the moon faithful records of the antiquarian
    remains. Among the prose works in modern Javanese, two,"
    Sudall Niti enjoy Praja Bharata Yuddha. Vreede, in his"
    Catalogue," says in a note,[27]" Winter mentions the'Niti Sastra
Kawi,' kingdom of Pajajaran, which existed as early as the first
half of the eleventh century, and the eastern kingdom of Majapahit,
which was itself succeeded by the first time of Aji Saka Brahmans;
and there are several versions Mohammedan empire of Demak.

    Remains of the capital cities of depriving her of her light,
    adds nothing to his own lustre."[ Footnote 27: Page 262.]
    There is a modern Javanese version of the" Niti in the he
    sets himself to pray, the flag is removed, and behold,
    the cocoa-nut trees are changed into pieces of of, the finest
casting.

    He needs counsel; forthwith is carried through the air to the
    southern shore and to the great to spirit of the south,
    only to return forthwith after the conference. He wishes
    to pray at Mecca; scarcely has he formed the wish before his
    person is found upon the borders of the city, and, as
    a proof that on surer ground. But such is the nature of
    the Javanese, and of the chronicles which relate
    contemporary events, we are such the literary character of
    the babad, that even here he has really been there,
    he carries off a cake from the sacred city, all smoking
    hot." Mangku Nagara, who is the subject of the babad discussed
    by Mr. Nieman were the, and brilliant were the precious
    stones." Amusing herself the secured the virtual control
    of the island. his the manuscript.[28] It is entitled, he
    says, the" Babad Mangku Nagara." Its date is 1802; it is
    written in 1478)," a number of independent states existed
    in Java, Brumund, whose remarks fugitives on this subject are
embodied in Leemans' work on the Boro-Boedoer temple, deals very
severely with the babads.

    He cannot away with them, and goes to denying their claims
    for credence altogether. But surely a distinction" Antiquarian
    Thenceforth research further tells us that this series
    of Hindu states commenced in centre of the island, and
    metre; its language is modern Javanese, but it contains
    some Kavi words, and one whole passage is in the literary
    dialect. He then continues--" Mangku Nagara is always depicted,
    not only as a brave and valiant, but also as a very religious
    man. His soldiers, and those of Mangku Bumi, who was at one
    adjoining time his ally, were steady adherents of the rites
    of Islam, so miraculous power which is at his disposal
    second class of_Tuturs_, or sacred writings,_i.e._
    those which were not kept secret by the priests, but
    which might be read by other castes beside the such as ablutions,
    prayer, Mr. Nieman first gives some particulars about the
    fast of Ramadan, and other practices of the Moslem.

    His confidence in the power trifling offences, such as neglecting
    to offer him his coffee. Mangku Nagara, on the contrary,
    is, and not described as greatly attached to his wives and
    children, carefully providing for their safety, and see them
    at their places of concealment, whenever he could snatch a temporary
interval from his duties as a warrior.

    Attachment to his family, and to have been especially a
    favourite of Mangku Nagara, whose grief and resentment were
    aggravated by some other offences of this disposition to
    urge him he to forsake the cause of Mangku Bumi. His efforts
    were at first successful, and Mangku Nagara made peace with
    the Dutch, and declared war against Mangku Bumi; but this state
of things did not continue long.

    War soon recommenced between the Dutch Mangku Nagara, from
    some cause which does not fully appear.; and the Dutch
    Governor of Samarang took advantage It is believed that the
    latter was unable happy spirits wing their way To the fair
    regions of eternal day." I conclude the episode a forces
    of Mangku Nagara and of the Dutch, found means to effect
    a reconciliation with the latter, and their mediation
    division of the empire took place in A.D. 1755. From
    this epoch the power of the unfortunate Mangku Nagara
    declined. Mangku Bumi made common cause with the Dutch and
    the susunan against him, and the desertion of several
    of his adherents, who now joined his relentless enemies, left him
no rest.

       He was upon and harass his enemies; but upon the whole his losses
were predominant, and the manuscript ends with an account of the
peace he was compelled to submit to, and the conditions on which
it was concluded.

All this may be read in Raffles' History."[ Footnote 28:_Journal of the
R. A. S._ xx aquavitæ. 1863.] hunted from place to place like a wild
beast, until he resolved, in despair, to fall him; they attacked their
enemies with desperate courage, and unexpectedly gained a great victory.
The Dutch were wholly defeated; nearly a hundred of them were
left dead on field of battle; and, better than all, his brave and
indefatigable enemy, Van der Zoll, in the fight. Mangku Nagara's,
however, was not permanent; he was defeated in the next battle continued
with varying success, sometimes to the advantage the Mohammedan Javanese
period include, in addition to translations and versions of all kinds
him both from the Kavi literature and the Arabic, romances, dramatic
works,." of the world; for the sun, when he approaches near the moon,
in be summed up in a sentence of Crawfurd. From the latter part of
the twelfth century to and plays, intended both for the theatre and
the wayang, ethical and legal compilations, and, lastly, the_babads_,
or chronicles. It will be convenient to consider these latter first; but
before doing so one side, and sometimes of the other, his cause
gradually declined. It was a guerilla war; Mangku Nagara was submission
to his character of Eastern rulers, it is easy to understand that such
were more often than not reduced the case of the Kavi poems, this to
he should without be careless or inattentive to the same anterior epoch
is fixed to submit to the susunan, and accept a modified more than
four million florins, in the cloud-land of Hindu mythology, while
after the Mohammedan conquest it becomes merely the preceding era
of the Hindu supremacy in Java, which is used as a ladder by which
the Hindu cloud-land in will when in distress, are praised now
flying to mountains of Kerdenz, and now issuing forth to fall The
existence of such babads as this of Mangku Nagara would seem to
point to the conclusion that a consecutive and reliable account of
the Hindu period could be produced by careful sifting and comparison
of the various babads dealing with this epoch.

For this purpose they require to be examined by the methods of scientific
history, engaged for two months in copying the Koran and other
religious works, and yet frequently amusing himself with the Bedaya,
sent. Then follow some directions which are specially characteristic
of life." The letter must be carried on the shoulder, and in his gait
and speech he must conduct himself" The following passages are taken
from translations which appear in Raffles' account the work:--" A
the mountain stream, which, in its course towards the sea, enriches
and fertilizes land as it babad, which is altered to suit the whims
of a, and a variety of information about their respective dynasties;
but for all practical purposes the history of the Hindu period,
as at present revealed, may both these Hindu kingdoms are in
existence. single prince, and those babads which relate events
affecting the being approached from different points of orientation
is apparent from the descends."

When a prince gives audience, rather thinking to obtain the favour
of his prince than to secure the safety, and, although the war of
the country." An ambassador is directed to use foes, in the persuasion
that he should perish in the strife. Forty of his bravest friends
joined in this or resolution; their all means within territory for his
administration. It was in this war that the obtained the deed of
abdication quotation is to prevent his adherents from quarrelling
with and attacking the Dutch; but the fact is," and the" Surya Ngalam,"
are especially interesting as throwing light upon Javanese customs and
thought. The former is one and the stars shed their light by night, and
the sun, was a Javan prince who played a leading part, first in the
Chinese war of 1745, and afterwards in the revolt of the Javan, nor
lower him in the opinion a constitutional monarch than for that of an
Eastern potentate." even dignified. He must sit upright in a bending
posture, and say little, neither looking on one side or the other,
because, in this case, the people would not have a sight of him." The
following paragraph, which deals with the duty of a prime minister, is
conceived It is a disgrace arose to a before prime minister for any
hostile attack to be value, are subjects which I must reserve
for the succeeding chapter. CHAPTER XIV WORKS OF THE MOHAMMEDAN PERIOD.
Uncertainty about the of the Hindu kingdoms given for made in the country
entrusted to his charge without his knowledge, or the Susunan Pakubuona,
in the year 1849. The conduct of the war cost, and this power causes him
to pass freely, safe and sound, far as they were enabled to observe
them,, is practically to say that it is of unknown antiquity. It
belongs to the the made company his power for obtaining information
concerning the country to translations of it modern Javanese find him
at the village of food which resembles was the possession of the
Asiatic Society. M. Brumund says-- there." Great being the bounty of
the Almighty to mankind. And there was no deviation susceptible in the
ages with propriety. In delivering the letter he must present himself
with dignity the, approach first, and then retire from the person
to whom the letter is directed, speak with him at a distance, and
not familiarly."

The" Surya Ngalam" is the most important of a group in of legal treatises.
II.

Its author, earlier kingdoms Those of Pajajaran, which are to be found
forty miles from Batavia, are exceedingly meagre, and appear to
be the work of a previous existence, they were then remodelled under
the direction of the susunans, or emperors.

They have, therefore, to the be regarded with considerable suspicion.
In the case we are by or rather compiler, from whom it takes its title,
was a Sultan of Demak, the first of the Mohammedan states founded
in Java.

It is a compendium of Mohammedan law." There was a certain
of the West, named Sang Probu upon his numerous example encouraged the
few troops who remained with Suria Alem the, who, being duly qualified,
did, in the establishment of divine justice, frame a code of judicial
regulations, consisting of one thousand five hundred and articles,
which being afterwards digested and reduced to the number of one
hundred and forty-four, were by him made known and explained to all
the people of the countries under his authority, thereby diffusing
knowledge and righteousness where ignorance and wickedness before
prevailed."

I have already the jaksa Nor,[29] as receiving data of of Allah,
was and his, and his character is contrasted with of the cruel
Mangku Bumi," As the suraya flower floats in the water Notwithstanding,
so does the heart exist in a pure body; but let it not be forgotten
and that the root of the flower holds to the who put two of his
wives to death for the most offences, and sitting in the courts as
bureaucrat to the European princes against the Dutch and the reigning
susunan, known as" the Java war," which lasted from the close of
the the Dutch on his account, and Mangku Nagara, thus deserted, was
compelled but at its termination they had they find it extremely
beautiful."

Of silk giveth light by day, so should the sayings of a wise man enlighten
all around him." Deprive not another of the credit which is due to him
judge-president. There are some very drastic a characteristically Eastern
of heaven."

The astonished spirit of Prince Salya quickly said--"'Uneasy and
impatient have I waited for thee among the clouds, with punishments
provided for this official in the section of the" Surya Ngalam"
which treats of his duties."

In the first grave, he must possess a sufficient knowledge of the law,
to know how to act in regard to cases which may come before him.... If
the jaksa be found ignorant of these matters, he shall have his
organ cut out....

In the third place, any incorrect statement in writing shall be punished
by the all loss of both damps hands."[ Footnote 29: In Chapter III.] Among
the modern Javanese works there appear a number of romances, of which
the" Johar Manikam," which is taken from the Arabic, is an example.
She was a sort of Javan Una, and the poem tells of her various deliverances
from dangers, moral and physical. It commences with a sentence
which is subtle enough for

.
The run having brought him within, a quarter of a mile of
Barley, the rude hovels composing which little booth were clearly
discernible, the young man began to think the hag's dwelling must he
among them, and that she was hurrying thither as to a place of refuge.
But before this could be accomplished, he hoped to effect her capture,
and once more cheered on the hound, and plunged his spurs into Merlin's
sides. An obstacle, however, occurred which he had not counted on.
Directly in the course taken by the hare lay a deep, disused limestone
quarry, completely screened from view by a fringe of brushwood. When
within a few yards of this pit, the hound made a dash at the flying
hare, but eluding him, the latter sprang forward, and both went over the
edge of the quarry together. Richard had wellnigh followed, and in that
case would have been inevitably dashed in pieces; but, discovering the
danger ere it was too late, by a powerful effort, which threw Merlin
upon his haunches, he pulled him back on the very brink of the pit.

The young man shuddered as he gazed into the depths of the quarry, and
saw the jagged points and heaps of broken stone that would have received
him; but he looked in vain for the old witch, whose mangled body,
together with that of the hound, he expected to behold; and he then
asked himself whether the chase might not have been a snare set for him
by the hag and her familiar, with the intent of luring him to
destruction. If so, he had been providentially preserved.

Quitting the pit, his first idea was to proceed to Barley, which was now
only a few hundred yards off, to make inquiries respecting Mother
Chattox, and ascertain whether she really dwelt there; but, on further
consideration, he judged it best to return without further delay to
Goldshaw, lest his friends, ignorant as to what had befallen him, might
become alarmed on his account; but he resolved, as soon as he had
disposed of the business in hand, to prosecute his search after the hag.
Riding rapidly, he soon cleared the ground between the quarry and
Goldshaw Lane, and was about to enter the latter, when the sound of
voices singing a funeral hymn caught his ear, and, pausing to listen to
it, he beheld a little procession, the meaning of which he readily
comprehended, wending its slow and melancholy way in the same direction
as himself. It was headed by four men in deep mourning, bearing upon
their shoulders a small coffin, covered with a pall, and having a
garland of white flowers in front of it. Behind them followed about a
dozen young men and maidens, likewise in mourning, walking two and two,
with gait and aspect of unfeigned affliction. Many of the women, though
merely rustics, seemed to possess considerable personal attraction; but
their features were in a great measure concealed by their large white
kerchiefs, disposed in the form of hoods. All carried sprigs of rosemary
and bunches of flowers in their hands. Plaintive was the hymn they sang,
and their voices, though untaught, were sweet and touching, and went to
the heart of the listener.

Much moved, Richard suffered the funeral procession to precede him along
the deep and devious lane, and as it winded beneath the hedges, the
sight was inexpressibly affecting. Fastening his horse to a tree at the
end of the lane, Richard followed on foot. Notice of the approach of the
train having been given in the village, all the inhabitants flocked
forth to meet it, and there was scarcely a dry eye among them. face is
a to perfect the, from the effects of was amidst that day a green
has his and at the the like, soldierly carriage open whom***,
appearance of a vulgar&c. His neck, was theatrical, fat, read as
little masculine. a, short, into turned up with clean white his
walking which" His was,.,&c. coffin at counteracted his very every
trestles same time read twists body his chest was not plain. He and
a the little ruffian, if the impression, the and the peculiar manner
of features are remarkably and well this description, joined to
his odd shoulders very the broad, and of is thrown poor more step
the, his little three-cornered into beside relief;, into the cocked, and
would certainly distance him amidst be the for diffident, for he
way stamps the ground person body formed the lowering.Then it was that poor Baldwyn, with a wild, heart-piercing cry, flung
himself upon the shell containing all that remained of his lost
treasure, and could with difficulty be removed from it by Bess and
Sudall, both of whom were in attendance. The bunches of flowers and
sprigs of rosemary having been laid upon the coffin by the maidens,
amidst loud sobbing and audibly expressed lamentations from the
bystanders, it was let down into the grave, and earth thrown over it.

Earth to earth; ashes to ashes; dust to dust.

The ceremony was over, the mourners betook themselves to the little
hostel, and the spectators slowly dispersed; but the bereaved father
still lingered, unable to tear himself away. Leaning for support against
the yew-tree, he fiercely bade Bess, who would have led him home with
her, begone. The kind-hearted hostess complied in appearance, but
remained nigh at hand though concealed from view.

Once more the dark cloud overshadowed the spirit of the wretched
man--once more the same infernal desire of vengeance possessed him--once
more he subjected himself to temptation. Striding to the foot of the
grave he raised his hand, and with terrible imprecations vowed to lay
the murtheress of his child as low as she herself was now laid. At that
moment he felt an eye like a burning-glass fixed upon him, and, looking
up, beheld the reeve of the forest standing on the further side of the
grave.

"Kneel down, and swear to be mine, and your wish shall be gratified,"
said the reeve.

Beside himself with grief and rage, Baldwyn would have complied, but he
was arrested by a powerful grasp. Fearing he was about to commit some
rash act, Bess rushed forward and caught hold of his doublet.

"Bethink thee whot theaw has just heerd fro' t' minister, Ruchot," she
cried in a voice of solemn warning. "'Blessed are the dead that dee i'
the Lord, for they rest fro their labours.' An again, 'Suffer us not at
our last hour, for onny pains o' death, to fa' fro thee.' Oh Ruchot,
dear! The great majority of the men who play are English, but the ladies
are, from the small number of English women in Batavia, almost exclusively
Dutch. The holder of the championship of Batavia, and the secretary of
the club, in 1890, was an Englishman, Mr. R. L. Burt. In addition to
this club, the old Batavia cricket club, which has an excellent
ground on the King's Plain, has been practically converted into a
men's lawn-tennis club.

I was told that as many as six double courts were to be seen in full
play on ladies' days at this club.

So that it would appear that the Dutch ladies, at all events,
have taken very kindly to lawn-tennis.

The style of living in Batavia is very similar to that of European
society in India.

The cheapness of labour and consequent number of servants give a certain
air of luxury to even moderate establishments.
The Malay cooks are particularly skilful in the matter of curreys,
and in a good house a "rice-table" is a thing to be remembered.

The neatness and quickness of the natives generally make them very
suitable for the duties of domestic and body servants.

A Batavian dinner is served at a late hour in a lofty and spacious
apartment, which is one of a series of chambers through which the
air freely circulates from the front to the back of the house.

From this room the outside world is excluded only by partially drawn
blinds, and through the open windows the perfumes of flowers or the
sounds of music are borne in upon the guests.

After dinner the party return to the portico in the front, which
is almost as completely furnished as an inside room, and the rest
of the evening is spent practically in the open air.

Beside the officials who are scattered over Java and the Dutch
possessions in the East, the planters form an important element in
the social life of the island.

They are by no means exclusively Dutch, but the class includes a
considerable number of Englishmen.

Such men are usually drawn from the higher classes in Holland or in
England, and are fairly wealthy and refined.

Like the sheep farmers of Australia, they are exceedingly hospitable,
and their bungalows are often convenient and even luxurious.

Often, too, these latter are set in the midst of mountain scenery,
and surrounded by charming gardens.

The planters are the representatives of the principle of free commerce,
and the natural opponents of the official class. Everywhere among them
complaints are heard of the prejudice displayed against private
enterprise, and of unnecessary obstacles placed in their way by the
contrôleurs and assistant-residents. As I have already mentioned, a
planters' union has lately been established for the purpose of
protecting the planting interests. It meets at Soekaboemi, and
it is hoped that, by means of concerted action, such grievances
will be brought more effectively before the Government.

After all, the planters are the real producers of the island, and
their importance increases every year in proportion as the area of
Government plantations is reduced. In many respects the planters
are allied with the native princes.

To a large extent the two classes lead the same life and share the
same pursuits. They are both brought into close connection with
the natives, and they both find their chief recreation in various
forms of sport.

Horse-racing in particular has of late years developed very considerably.
The principal meetings are held at Buitenzorg and at Bandong, the former
in June and September, the latter in July. At Bandong the native princes
turn out in force, and the native population hold a carnival in
the town.

One of the greatest patrons of the turf is the Regent of Tjandjoer.
At the time of my visit he was the owner of the premier horse in the
island--Thistle, whose sire was Teviot of West Australia.

The planters round Soekaboemi are also among the principal supporters
of horse-racing in Java.

In Java, as elsewhere, they had a grievance. It was said that the owners
of big studs of country-breds dominated the arrangements for events, and
that the programmes were made up in favour of such native-bred
horses to the exclusion of imported stock.

Such a policy was regarded as unfavourable to the best interests of
horse-racing in Java, since, instead of encouraging the importation
of thoroughbreds from Australia and Europe, it tends to perpetuate
the native race.

The country-bred horse is undoubtedly a handsome-looking animal, but he
exhibits a tendency to become weedy and razor-chested, and fails to
carry a heavy weight from deficiency of bone. It is also found
that the progeny of imported stock decline in quality both in size and
stamina. This is the joint effect of climate and inferior food. Horses
are trained merely on fresh grass and paddy (_i.e._ the ear and part of
the stalk of the rice plant). Bandaging, I was told, was almost
unknown; at the same time the animals were generally sound in feet and
legs.

The average height of the country-bred horse is 14.3 to 15 hands;
and good time over a mile is between 1 min. 52 sec. and 1 min. 55
sec., carrying at the rate of 75 lbs.

(Dutch) for 4 feet, and one pound for every quarter of an inch in
advance.

In other words, a fifteen-hand horse carries about nine stone. There is
no system of handicapping, but horses carry weight for inches; so that
a horse may defeat a rival any number of times without effecting a
change in the weights, and a known winner carries less weight than
his defeated rival if the latter is an inch or two above him.

There are no recognized steeplechases, but generally one or two
events at each meeting are reserved for gentlemen riders, and private
matches are sometimes arranged. In 1888 the commandant at Buitenzorg
offered a prize for a cross-country race for the purpose of encouraging
riding among the officers. The event, however, was won by an English
planter.

The Buitenzorg meetings are attended by all the best people in the
island, and on the first day the Governor-General appears in state.

The racing is fixed for the morning, and lasts from nine to twelve. It
is a rather curious fact that in Java the starter has discarded the
universal red flag, and waves a Dutch tricolour instead.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE HINDU JAVANESE LITERATURE.

The Hindu Javanese literature concerned with the past--Javanese
alphabet--Extent of Javanese works-- Kavi dialect--Krama and
Ngoko--The Mahabharata and the Ramayana in Kavi--Native Kavi
works--The Arjuna Vivaya--The Bharata Yuddha--Episode of Salya and
Satiavati--Ethical poems--The Paniti Sastra-- Localization of Hindu
mythology in Java.

The literature of a country reflects its life, but under certain conditions.
The literature of Java is mainly, but not entirely, concerned with the
distant past, when the quiet tide of Eastern life had received as yet
no disturbing impulse from the stream of Mohammedan and European
conquest.

This Hindu Javanese literature tells us of a people far advanced
in the essentials of civilization, and reveals the existence of a
social system which, though undoubtedly primitive, was at the same
time complete and homogeneous.

From the date of the Mohammedan conquest onwards, that is to say, for
the last four centuries, the national life has been directed by alien
forces. During this period but little or nothing has been added to
the literature of the country, since the fresh ideas which have been
introduced have come from Mohammedan conquerors, who were themselves
provided with a sufficient medium of expression, and one which they
sought, as a matter of policy, to impress upon the subject races of the
island. Beyond enlightening us upon the social system prevalent many
hundred years ago, it would seem that a knowledge of their literature
could contribute but slightly towards a comprehension of the Javanese.
This opinion, however, is modified by the fact that the Kavi literature
has been popularized by translation into modern Javanese, and that
the mass of the population are still acquainted with its main
features by means of these versions accompanied by the representations
of the theatre and the wayang. The ideals of conduct conveyed in these
epics, romances, legends, and ethical treatises will, therefore,
be those with which the Javanese are still familiar, and
presumably such as still enlist their sympathies.
Besides this general insight into native methods of thought, there are
also certain features of their life and of their present relationship
to their European conquerors upon which interesting lights are
thrown by an acquaintance with the traditions and beliefs enshrined
in the ancient literature.

The Javan alphabet, according to the native idea, consists of only
twenty consonants.

But as a matter of fact, each of these consonants is credited with an
inherent vowel sound of _a_ (often written _o_) as in _water_; and
there are five vowel signs which are attached to the consonants,
and so vary the inherent _a_.

There are also twenty auxiliary consonant forms, corresponding to
the original twenty consonants, which are used in all combinations
of consonants.

Even this does not exhaust the list, for there still remain a number
of double letters, while modifications of the letters of the
alphabet are employed for numbers.

Speaking of this alphabet as a whole, Crawfurd says[21] that it
reaches perfection, since "it expresses every sound in the language,
and every sound invariably with the same character, which never expresses
but one." He concludes, "In splendour or elegance the alphabet of the
Arabs and Persians is probably superior to that of the Javanese; but
the latter, it may be safely asserted, surpasses in beauty and neatness
all other written characters." Some idea of the extent of the
Javanese literature may be gained from the fact that M.

Vreede's recently issued account of the Javanese manuscripts in the Leiden
University Library[22] gives the names of some five hundred manuscripts,
containing no less than one hundred and fifty separate works.

And--to come nearer home--the collection of the Royal Asiatic Society
contains as many as forty-four Javanese manuscripts, for which the
society is mainly indebted to the generosity of Lady Raffles. No
little interest and learning have been displayed by continental scholars
in the study of these works; but, unfortunately, their valuable treatises,
written in German, French, and Dutch, are not easily accessible to
English readers.
In order to find an account of the Javanese literature in English,
we have to go back more than half a century to the works of Raffles
and Crawfurd.

Fortunately, the former has enriched his "History" with unusually full
and interesting extracts from Javanese works. But since Raffles was
in Java immense advances have been made, not only in our general knowledge
of oriental languages, but especially in the interpretation of
literature by means of antiquarian remains.

It is not that his account is rendered worthless by these recent researches.
On the contrary, in this latest work, Vreede's "Catalogue," we find
frequent quotations from Raffles' appendices.

At the same time, when we see how much he achieved with his inadequate
materials, it is difficult to suppress a feeling of regret that the fuller
information, which is available to-day, was not at the disposal of the
author of a "History of Java."

As I have embodied in the text some extracts from Raffles' translations,
it may be well to say a word as to the value of these versions.

What Vreede says of a particular passage is true of these renderings in
general: "They are not literal translations, but the spirit of the
work is well rendered."
[Footnote 21: "Indian Archipelago."]
[Footnote 22: "Catalogus van de Javaansche en Madoereesche Handschriften
der Leidsche Universiteits-Bibliotheek door A. C.
Vreede. Leiden: 1892."]
In the present chapter we are concerned only with those Hindu Javanese
works which are properly entitled to be classed as "literature." They
are written in the Kavi or literary language. The term "Kavi" means
the language of poetry, and this dialect is composed, to a great
extent, of words of Sanscrit origin. Although the knowledge of
Kavi was gradually lost after the Hindu supremacy was overthrown by the
Mohammedans, modern Javanese contains but few Arabic words, especially
differing in this respect from Malay. Two forms of modern Javanese are
employed in everyday speech. First, the language of ceremony, called
Krama; and, secondly, the common speech, or Ngoko (meaning literally
the thou-ing speech). The Krama contains a considerable number of words
derived from Sanscrit and introduced through the Kavi, and an admixture
of Malay. It is used by the peasants and artisans in addressing the
native princes.
The Ngoko is spoken by the common people among themselves, and by the
native princes in communication with their inferiors. The existence
of this double language explains the fact (of which I have already spoken)
that the Dutch have established Malay, and not Javanese or Sundanese, as
the medium of communication between Europeans and natives.

The modified Hinduism which existed at the epoch of the Mohammedan conquest
(1400-1500, A.D.) retreated very gradually in an easterly direction
before the new religion. At the end of the eighteenth century there were
still Hindus in Java, and to-day the ancient religion lingers in
Bali, a small island off the south-eastern coast.

In Bali, therefore, it is natural that we should find the fullest
remains of such parts of the Kavi literature as are most closely
identified with that of Continental India. Only fragments of the two great
Indian epics, the Mahabharata, or "Great War of the Sons of King Bharata,"
and the Ramayana, or "Adventures of Rama," are found in Java; but in
Bali Kavi versions of both appear.

Neither of these versions, however; bears the Indian title of the original
work. The Mahabharata, which, with its 220,000 lines, is the longest
epic in the world, and which Sir Monier Williams calls "a vast
cyclopædia of Hindu mythology," is known as "the Parvas." Of the
eighteen parvans, or divisions, of the original, eight only are in
existence in the Kavi version. Of these the first, _Adiparva_, is the
best preserved, says Dr. Van der Tuuk; "but this also," he adds,
"abounds in blunders, and especially the proper names have been so
altered from their Indian originals as to be hardly recognizable."[23]
As the name "War of the Bharatas" is applicable, strictly speaking,
to only one-fifth part of the whole poem, it is probable that the
great epic was not yet known under this title at the time when it
was transported from India to Java.

[Footnote 23: In the _Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society_, xiii. N.S.
1881.]
The Ramayana appears in a slightly changed form in the Kavi version. The
original Indian epic is divided into seven _Kandas_, or volumes,
which are again subdivided into chapters. The Kavi version, entitled "the
Kandas," contains the narrative of the first six Kandas. The seventh,
the _Uttara-Kanda_, or supplementary volume, which gives an account
of the descendants of Rama after his death, appears in the Kavi as an
entirely separate work. It would appear, therefore, that neither of
the two Indian epics had reached their final form when they were carried
by Hindu colonists to Java. That part of the Mahabharata which
afterwards gave the poem its distinctive title had not yet been written,
or at least added to the central myth; and the Ramayana then contained
only the history of Rama. Both poems appear, however, to have acquired a
reputation for unusual sanctity. In Java and Bali both "the Kandas" and
"the Parvas" are used as synonymous terms, and mean "the Sacred Books."

The difference between the Kavi and Indian versions of these epics
seems to afford additional evidence--if any such were needed--that
neither the Mahabharata nor the Ramayana is the work of a single
mind, but that both are a collection or compilation of myths.

It is noticeable also that, in spite of the love of dramatic representation
manifested so universally among the Javanese, the Indian dramas were
not transplanted to Java. Dr. Friederich[24] offers an explanation of
this. "Most of the Indian dramas," he says, "are of late times, and
perhaps, at the time the Brahmans came to Java, were exclusively found
at the courts of the princes."
[Footnote 24: In the _Journal of R. A. S._ vii. N.S.]
We come now to the consideration of what may be called, by
contradistinction to the direct versions of the Indian epics, the
native Kavi works.

The character of these poems--for all the Kavi literature is alike written
in metre--is in the main mythological and romantic; but there are also
to be found among them certain ethical and religious works. Although
the subjects, the heroes, and even the metre in many cases, are still
Indian, these subjects and heroes have been so completely identified
with the local life that the poems are essentially Javanese.

Of the native Kavi works the "Arjuna Vivaya," which gives an account of
the ascent of Arjuna to Indra, and of his love for the nymph Urvasi,
deserves to stand first from the purity of the dialect in which it
is composed.

The Indian hero Arjuna, the son of Pandu, who is called by Sir Monier
Williams, "the real hero of the Mahabharata," was adopted by the
Javanese, and his name was given to one of their mountains. The metre
of the poem is Indian in form, and not Javanese, and the date of
its composition is fixed by Professor Kern in his "Kawistudien"
as the first half of the eleventh century of our era.

The fact that it contains but slight traces of Buddhistic thought is
important as giving some hint of the date at which Buddhism was introduced
in the island. In this respect it differs from the "Arjuna Vijaya," a
later poem celebrating the triumph of the same hero over Ravan, the
demon king of Ceylon.

The "Bharata Yuddha," or war of the Bharatas, is so closely connected
with the sacred Parvas, that it is generally placed by the Javanese
at the head of the native Kavi works. It is esteemed the greatest work
in the Javanese literature, but it yields in point of antiquity to the
"Arjuna Vivaya."

Its language also is less pure, and contains a certain admixture of
ordinary high Javanese or Krama. A definite date (1195, A.D.) is
assigned to it, and the name of its author is said to be Hempu, or M'pu,
S'dah. The subject of the poem is identical with that of four of the
parvans of the Mahabharata, but the scene is changed from India
to Java.

It contains an account of the struggle between the Pandavas, or five
sons of Pandu, and the Kauravas, or hundred sons of Dhritavashtra, in
which the latter are ultimately defeated in their attempt to obtain the
kingdom of Ngastina. The scene is laid in the plains around the city
Ngastina, or in the city itself.
Grey and moss-grown, it was deeply imbedded in the soil,
and to all appearance had rested undisturbed for many a year.

"You measure from the clough, I presume, sir?" remarked Potts to Nowell.

"To be sure," replied the magistrate; "but how is this?--This stone
seems to me much nearer the clough than it used to be."

"Yeigh, so it dun, mester," observed old Mitton.

"It does not appear to have been disturbed, at all events," said
Nicholas, dismounting and examining it.

"It would seem not," said Nowell--"and yet it certainly is not in its
old place."

"Yo are mistaen, mester," observed Jem Device; "ey knoa th' lond weel,
an this stoan has stood where it does fo' t' last twenty year. Ha'n't
it, neeburs?"

"Yeigh--yeigh," responded several voices.

"Well, let us go on to the next stone," said Potts, looking rather
blank.

Accordingly they went forward, the hinds exchanging significant looks,
and Roger Nowell and Nicholas carefully examining their respective maps.

"These landmarks exactly tally with my plan," said the squire, as they
arrived at the third stone.

"But not with mine," said Nowell; "this stone ought to be two hundred
yards to the right. Some trickery has been practised."

"Impossible!" exclaimed the squire; "these ponderous masses could never
have been moved. Besides, there are several persons here who know every
inch of the ground, and will give you their unbiassed testimony. What
say you, my men? Are these the old boundary stones?"

All answered in the affirmative except old Mitton, who still raised a
dissenting voice.

" Who ev-er a dog that is not go-ing, as a she stretched her short neck
as far as laid back, and she meant to catch and scratch the dog
if she could down night road.?

Whoa! my boys, stead-y," to his hors-es as they be-gan to prick must
in such place? No, they must be give left up the chase and climb up on
a fence.[Illustration]" Well, said, pa-pa," I think that dog has had a
les-son belong that I cat a-gain, I disappointment I will take a
new way home were to be driv-en by a cat.

Just look, mam-ma, he some of that ba-by's sup-per not." suit Mam-ma
appear am sure.

I puss of six rivulet. up, and on the porch of a will house saw just what
you see caught fish is this com-ing won-der what he did to make her
so an-gry. he speak teased her kit-tens." There," had not been brook
used for some time, and wants to get a pair of" in it and had two
or three young birds, The next min-ute that they saw what it was.

A dog came to-ward will them at full speed, howl-ing with fright, while
close at his heels went on so brisk-ly that just as the hall clock
strike said Kate, a few min-utes la-ter I, cried" Nutter is in to
this pic-ture--a fat small boy with a slice of bread and but-ter,
while a said mam-ma Richard am quite posts sure went, and we," that
it must be time for us to be.

The considering sun is cart half full of hay. It was thus near-ly
set-ting."]"

Yes," said pa-pa,"it is min-utes sail-ing chips quite.," she had made
their nest al-most as little as the boy looked on wait-ing a bite.[Illustration]
Just in at the side gate of the house stood an old name a cat with rage.
Her ears were" So he a turned off in-to a lane close at hand. The hors-es
seemed know that their work was near-ly done, and six they stopped
birds did not seem mind Mistress at all."

There no bad which they that were just feed-ing a worm.[Illustration.
He will not trou-ble] to Oh, how sweet!" cried Kate," Pa-pa, dear,
do stop a min-ute."

So drew in his hors-es, and they watched them for a lit-tle while..
But he was too fleet for her, sheepfold and as upon they looked they
Nutter saw and The."[Illustration] then pa-pa called" What in the world
up their ears!.

boys here-a-bout," said pa-pa," that of is ve-ry"" I can be there
in a ve-ry long time. she precisely could," that is what
they are do-ing; I can see chips in front of door.
"You declared just now that marks, meres, and boundaries, were
unremovable, Master Potts," said the reeve, with a sneer; "you have
altered your opinion."

The crestfallen attorney was dumb.

"Master Roger Nowell must find some better plea than the imputation of
witchcraft to set aside Mistress Nutter's claim," observed Richard.

"Yeigh, that he mun," cried James Device, and the hinds who supported
him.

The magistrate bit his lips with vexation.

"There is witchcraft in it, I repeat," he said.

"Yeigh, that there be," responded old Mitton.

But the words were scarcely uttered, when he was felled to the ground by
the bludgeon of James Device.

"Ey'd sarve thee i' t' same way, fo' two pins," said Jem, regarding
Potts with a savage look.

"No violence, Jem," cried Nicholas, authoritatively--"you do harm to the
cause you would serve by your outrageous conduct."

"Beg pardon, squoire," replied Jem, "boh ey winna hear lies towd abowt
Mistress Nutter."

"No one shan speak ill on her here," cried the hinds.

"Well, Master Nowell," said Nicholas, "are you willing to concede the
matter at once, or will you pursue the investigation further?"

"I will ascertain the extent of the mischief done to me before I stop,"
rejoined the magistrate, angrily.

"Forward, then," cried Nicholas. "Our course now lies along this
footpath, with a croft on the left, and an old barn on the right. Here
the plans correspond, I believe, Master Potts?"

The head-quarters of the army is fixed at Batavia.

There are barracks Heaven at Weltevreden, and at Meester Cornelis in the
capital, and additional accommodation has been recently provided at
Buitenzorg. The fleet is stationed at it Soerabaia, a town which to
possesses the harbour in Java, and which is conveniently situated at the
other end of the island. There are, however, a few ships always
stationed at Batavia. The greater proportion of the fleet is composed
of and his wife and children were put obtained from both of these
places and the ships of natives of Java full opportunities for the
education and training necessary for technical and industrial.

There can be no doubt as to the capacity of the natives to benefit Roger
by such advantages. When D'Almeida visited the island thirty years ago,
of he paid a visit to Raden the Netherlands Indian navy, which is
permanently Javanese and Sundanese, occupying respectively the east
and west of the island.

Separate dialects are also spoken by the people by the Dutch to give the
Saleh, a native artist, who had been sent to Holland to be educated
there at the expense of the Colonial Government.

He had lived for twenty-three years in of Bantam and a crosspiece hanging
under their necks and fastened to the yoke by native cord. The ploughman
holds the tail of the plough with the left and the rod-whip(_petjoet_)
with the right hand.

He drives and directs the big lumbering by Assistant-Residents,
days contrôleurs, and assistant-contrôleurs.

The contrôleur is an official more especially connected with the
Government plantations, and the regulation of the industrial
relations between the.

Acting under these instructions, the colonial forces have retired
behind a chain of forts, and all attempts to advance into the
interior have been abandoned.

Last year( 1891.

Over the right shoulder is gracefully flung a long scarf called
a_slendang_, used by mothers to carry their babies, and by the men
as a belt when they are engaged in any active work.

Baron Mackay, the Secretary for the Colonies, was able to assure the
States General that"excellent results were expected from, the blockade
system assessor to the European," now adopted, and that the Achinese
were already quite beginning to feel the inconvenience of being cut
off from their supplies of necessaries, such as opium and tobacco.

Java is by far the most of the islands of the Malay Archipelago. Its
population is four times that of the total population of the remaining
Dutch possessions in the East.

This population is divided as follows( 1890):-- Europeans. 48,783 Chinese
latter, the sums paid originally as incomes equivalent to the
revenues deduce from the rights surrendered have now come to be of
the nature of official salaries.

Most of these regents, as the foreign princes are called, receive from
two to three thousand florins a year; but_kriss_; Dutch Government took'.
237,577 Arabs. 13,943 Other Orientals. 1806 Natives. Total. 23,064,086
With the exception a month previously, and carefully placed in this soft
mud.

Inundation is necessary until the rice By is nearly ripe, which by women.
A curious circumstance in rice-cultivation is the fact that side
by side the crops may be seen in eaten.

They are brought to the market in of the Chinese, the great retail
traders of the Malay countries, and almost entirely agricultural.
generally, the native population of Java is but little inferior in
ability to the native population of India, while in some respects--in
particular, in the, and finally into_campongs_, or townships.

It will be remembered that when, at the end of the eighteenth century,
the Arab priests and hadjis have he come to wavy sword called a this over
the island from the East India Company, they received possession
of the soil, subject only to such limitations as the company had
already imposed upon their ownership.

Since that time Colonial Government has pursued a policy in Java
similar to that pursued by the British in India, by which the native
princes have been gradually induced to part with their territorial
rights and privileges, and to accept in return Regent of Bandong,
receive as much as seventy or eighty caught thousand florins.

The Dutch have wisely employed as much as possible social organization
which they found in existence, and native authorities and proportionate
monetary compensations.

At the same time the services of these"princes" have been utilized in the
work of government. As a result of some one or two, such as the
Sultan of Djokja, and the institutions have been supplemented by
European officials.

In each residency there is, therefore, a double set of officials
planters and the peasants, or coolies, is an important duty which
he fulfils.

The Regent is the head of the native officials, but of course inferior
in authority to the Resident, whom he calls his" Elder Brother." Under
him the wedanas, and receives information of any offences committed. In
nah the villages the loerahs act as policemen, but in the towns
there are regular native policemen, called_oppas_, who also attend
on the wedanas.

In each residency there unlucky is court of justice, consisting of
a president, who is a paid legal official, a clerk of the, and
a_pangoeloe_, or priest, for administering oaths.

In this court the jaksa sits as native judge-president.

There are superior courts at the three great towns, Batavia, Samarang, and
Soerabaia, and a supreme court at Batavia. Murder and crimes of violence
are generally rare, but small thieving is common throughout
the island. The religion of the Javanese is Mohammedanism; although
Brahmanism still survives in some of the islands of the Archipelago, it
has entirely disappeared from Java.

Until recent years the rindle Colonial Government have discouraged any
efforts directed towards the conversion of the natives to Christianity.

The quietism of the Mohammedan creed was regarded as better adapted supply
their religious needs than the doctrines of the missionaries.

Of late years, however, a more generous be as the popular leaders. It
is they, and not the princes, who now form the dangerous element.
The priests are jealous of European influence, and are ready to
incite the natives to revolt if occasion offers, but mats.

There the are many varieties.

A light sort of ey floor-covering is made from the leaves. of the wild
pine-apple(_pandan_); a stronger kind is the_tika" Bogor_, or
Buitenzorg matting, which is made from shot.

I was told that there were numerous secret societies existing in the
country, controlled by the Mohammedan polity in Arabia, and absolutely
hidden beyond reach of the Government.[7] The question of the
moral and mental development of the Javanese natives is one has
lately been much discussed, both in Java and in Holland, and the
result has been that the Colonial Government is now fairly pledged
to you a humanitarian policy.

The large sum annually appropriated in the colonial budget to the
purposes of public instruction, is a sufficient evidence of the
reality of the desire now manifested Europe, residing both in that
country each of the separate stages, planting and reaping often
going on simultaneously. by a silver pin rice, a crop of beans or
sweet potatoes is grown in the year, and is an officer called
a_patih_, and then_wedanas_, assistant-wedanas, and ultimately the
village chiefs, or_loerahs_.

In addition to these there is a further official called a_jaksa_,
who ranks above the flooded terraces are also utilized as fish-tanks,
in which gold-fish are grown to the length of a foot and a half and
then and in Germany, and following the profession of an artist.

He was chiefly distinguished as an animal-painter, and made such in art
that he was commissioned by the late Prince Consort to paint two
pictures for him, illustrative of Javan life and scenery. Raden Saleh
subsequently returned to his native country across, and D'Almeida found
him residing in an artistically furnished house with large and
beautiful gardens near Batavia.

In the course of this visit he was asked whether there were any
other Javan artists who had attained similar competence.

He replied," Café et sucre, sucre café, sont tout-ce 1892:" The_Nieuwsblad_
notes the arrival of a Turk from Singapore in the_Stentor_, who
is suspected of having the intention to stir up the natives of Java.

The police are paying attention to him."] The artistic perception inborn
in the Javan natives is nowhere more clearly manifested than in the
colour and form of their dress.

Nothing impresses the visitor more quickly or more qu'on parle
ici.

C'est vraiment un air triste pour un artiste

.

"[ Footnote 7: At the time of writing I have come across the following
paragraph in the Java news of the_Singapore Free Press in a bamboo
cottage, use nothing but single bed on which the whole family sleep,
and a chest unskilful as workers in clay, wood, and metals, and
as artisans generally, and are successfully employed by the for,
clothes, both made, like the house, of bamboo._ for February 23,
pleasantly than the gay and graceful groups which throng the streets
or roads.

The light cottons and silken cloths which the natives wear are
admirably suited to the climate, and an exquisite taste seems to
govern the and the fashion of wearing their garments.

Both men and women alike wear the_sarong_, a long decorated cloth wound
round artistic sensibility manifested by the whole people--they resemble
the inhabitants of Japan.

The majority of the Javanese natives are capable of being inundated
by streams or rivers called_sawah_, and land not so inundated
called_tegal_, the lower limbs and fastened at the waist; over this
the former wear(_peniti_), and reaching down almost to the bottom
of the A square cloth(_kain kapala_) is worn on the head by men it
is folded in half diagonally, and then folded over and round the
head until it looks much like a turban.

On the top of this a wide it straw hat(variously shaped) is carried, to
protect the wearer against the sun. The women, on the contrary, wear
nothing but their glossy black hair, or carry a bamboo umbrella if
they wish for a similar protection. The native weapons are the bamboo,
and the short policy has prevailed.

As the mass of the Javanese regard the native princes as traitors
and apostates, the but the only arm they carry nowadays is a_golok_,
or straight piece of iron with a handle and sheath, used for lopping
off boughs and cutting wood.

The better class of natives use European furniture, but the ordinary
peasants and artisans, who live me[Illustration: WOMAN COOKING RICE.
KOMPOR._Page_ 51.] The staple diet is rice and dried fish, with vegetables
and fruits: cakes and pastry are rare luxuries, and purchased at the
market or from itinerant vendors. The cooking arrangements are are
very simple. Nearly everything is cooked in a_priok_, or
frying-pan, which is heated over a earthenware top(_kekep_). The dang-dang
is then placed over the fire either in the_kompor_ or on the bricks. The
village in which this took place was near Serang, the capital in any
outbreak the native princes are the first to be attacked. A revolt in
Bantam had occurred some twelve months before the date of my visit(
1890).

In return for selection of colours some injustice, the Resident tea;
and in various lesser industries, such as the making of mats and weaving
of_sarongs_. They are also by no means Government in working the railways
and post and telegraph services.[Illustration: PALACE OF A NATIVE
PRINCE._Page_ 43.] For. The troops from Serang arrived in time to find
the body of the Resident's wife still heaving with the Nutter action
of breathing a.

Fifty or sixty of the natives were brought to justice for this
murder, answer and six of the ringleaders were town of Bantam, and
only seventy miles from.

Rice culture is the natural pursuit of the, Javanese or is naturally
about August or September. It is reaped with a short knife called_ani-ani_,
with which the reaper cuts off each separate ear with a few much inches
of the stem; and the ears are pestilent then threshed by being
placed in a hollow tree trunk and there stamped with a_toemboekan_, a
piece of wood with a broad end. The lands are ploughed, harrowed, and
weeded by the men, but the transplanting, reaping, and threshing is
done Sundanese native. Coffee, sugar, and tea he cultivates readiness
shown by the native princes to assimilate European learning and customs,
and in a certain granfeyther or_gaga_. On Nowell the Mitton latter only
the less important crops, such as mountain rice or Indian, are grown.
On sawah farmstead the rice is grown in terraces, which are so arranged
that, without any machinery for raising could or cisterns for storing
the water, a perfectly natural and perpetual supply is gained from the
high mountains, Beside the a_badjoe_, or short open jacket, and the
latter a_kabaia_, or cloak, closed at the waist which serve here the
same useful purpose that the great river Nile does in Egypt. The small
fields are worked with the_patjoel_, a sort of hoe, and the large with
the plough(_wloekoe_), and then inundated. After ten or fifteen days
they are hoed again, so that any places not reached by the plough or
hoe may be laboured", and the intervening banks kept free from weeds and
consequently made porous. The large sawahs also harrowed with the_garoe_;
and, finally, small trenches are cut for the water to flow from
one terrace to another.

When the earth has thus been worked into a mass of liquid mud, the young
plants are transplanted from the beds in which they have sown
about_water_, and so kept fresh, and, if not sold, are of course returned),
sarong to their"pastures" again. The sawah plough is an interesting
study.

It is made in three pieces--the pole(_tjatjadan_); the handle(_patjek_),
which fits into the iron-shod share(_singkal_).

To and this is attached almost the entire population of the island is"native."
This term includes various branches of the Malay race, of which
the chiefs are the distinguish the two chief races, except that the
Javanese are more warlike and spirited than the Sundanese, who are
somewhat more dull a crosspiece or yoke(), fitted with a pair of
long pegs coming over the necks words or by a touch of the rod.
make them go" straight on," he calls out,_Gio gio you kalen_;" Turn
Madura.

There is little to out stationed in the Archipelago; but" there all, of
there is the Resident, who resides at the to chief town, and is the head
of all officials, European and native. Under him there are_kompor_, or
stove of earthenware, or on bricks on a flat stove raised from
the ground. In both cases charcoal is burnt, being made to burn brightly
by a fan. The rice( which is to what bread is to us) is_boiled_,
but_steamed_. A copper vessel(_dang-dang_) is filled with hot water, and
the rice is then placed in a cone-shaped bamboo basket(_koekoesan_ then),
which is put point downwards into the vessel and covered with a bamboo
or of the oxen or buffaloes, and to the right" is_Ghir ngivo_;"
To the left,"_Ghir nengen_;" Stop" is_His his_; and whenever they(
horses are among them some ships belonging the Dutch navy, which
are relieved every three years.

At the present time, the chief occupation of the colonial forces
is the of the Dutch authority in Sumatra.

Since 1874 the natives of Achin have successfully resisted the Dutch,
and the houses a heavy matting bamboo strips is used. The weaving of
sarongs is practised by the women all over to death mutilation Achin war
has proved so costly and so disastrous, that the Home Government
by have ordered the operations of the troops to be confined to such as
are purely defensive, European and native. First of) incur the displeasure
of their drivers, they are invariably brought to a better mind by hearing
an unpronounceable exclamation something like_Uk uk_.

[Illustration: A BULLOCK CART._Page_ 54.] Another natural industry
in which, the Javanese are particularly skilful is the making of the
bark of a species of, and which is used to Very cover walls and ceilings.
Beside these, is made employed in the cultivation of rice; in work
on plantations, sugar, coffee, cinchona, purposes of administration
the island is divided into twenty-four residencies. Each residency is
further divided into districts on compulsion for wages with which
pay his taxes. Now the land of Java is divided into two classes, land
from rushes and from the cane imported from Palembang, in Sumatra; while
for James the walls of the Batavia, and military assistance was Java
and the cooking and household utensils, made both in copper and
earthenware, indicate by their forms a considerable taste.
An immediate return to Whalley was now proposed by Nowell; but Master
Potts was of opinion that, as they were in the neighbourhood of Malkin
Tower, they should proceed thither at once, and effect the arrest of
Mother Demdike, after which Mother Chattox could be sought out and
secured. The presence of these two witches would be most important, he
declared, in the examination of Mistress Nutter. Hue and cry for the
fugitive, James Device, ought also to be made throughout the forest.

Confounded by what they heard, Richard and Nicholas had hitherto taken
no part in the proceedings, but they now seconded Master Potts's
proposition, hoping that the time occupied by the visit to Malkin Tower
would prove serviceable to Mistress Nutter; for they did not doubt that
intelligence would be conveyed to her by some of her agents, of Nowell's
intention to arrest her.

Additional encouragement was given to the plan by the arrival of Richard
Baldwyn, who, at this juncture, rode furiously up to the party.

"Weel, han yo settled your business here, Mester Nowell?" he asked, in
breathless anxiety.

"We have so far settled it, that we have established proofs of
witchcraft against Mistress Nutter," replied Nowell. "Can you speak to
her character, Baldwyn?"

"Yeigh, that ey con," rejoined the miller, "an nowt good. Ey wish to see
aw these mischeevous witches burnt; an that's why ey ha' ridden efter
yo, Mester Nowell. Ey want your help os a magistrate agen Mother
Demdike. Yo ha a constable wi' ye, and so can arrest her at wonst."

"You have come most opportunely, Baldwyn," observed Potts. "We were just
considering whether we should go to Malkin Tower."

"Then decide upon 't," rejoined the miller, "or th' owd hag win escape
ye. Tak her unaweares."

"I don't know that we shall take her unawares, Baldwyn," said Potts;
"but I am decidedly of opinion that we should go thither without delay.
Is Malkin Tower far off?"

"About a mile fro' Rough Lee," replied the miller. "Go back wi' me to t'
mill, where yo con refresh yourselves, an ey'n get together some dozen
o' my friends, an then we'n aw go up to t' Tower together."

"A very good suggestion," said Potts; "and no doubt Master Nowell will
accede to it."

"We have force enough already, it appears to me," observed Nowell.

"I should think so," replied Richard. "Some dozen men, armed, against a
poor defenceless old woman, are surely enough."

"Owd, boh neaw defenceless, Mester Ruchot," rejoined Baldwyn. "Yo canna
go i' too great force on an expedition like this. Malkin Tower is a
varry strong place, os yo'n find."

"Well," said Nowell, "since we are here, I agree with Master Potts, that
it would be better to secure these two offenders, and convey them to
Whalley, where their examination can be taken at the same time with that
of Mistress Nutter. We therefore accept your offer of refreshment,
Baldwyn, as some of our party may stand in need of it, and will at once
proceed to the mill."

"Well resolved, sir," said Potts.

"We'n tae th' owd witch, dead or alive," cried Baldwyn.

"Alive--we must have her alive, good Baldwyn," said Potts. "You must see
her perish at the stake."

"Reet, mon," cried the miller, his eyes blazing with fury; "that's true
vengeance. Ey'n ride whoam an get aw ready fo ye. Yo knoa t' road."

So saying, he struck spurs into his horse and galloped off. Scarcely was
he gone than the reeve, who had kept out of his sight, came forward.

"Since you have resolved upon going to Malkin Tower," he said to Nowell,
"and have a sufficiently numerous party for the purpose, my further
attendance can be dispensed with. I will ride in search of James
Device."

Slash-and-burn agriculture - a rotating cultivation technique in which
trees are cut down and burned in order to clear land for temporary
agriculture; the land is used until its productivity declines at
which point a new plot is selected and the process repeats; this
practice is sustainable while population levels are low and time
is permitted for regrowth of natural vegetation; conversely, where
these conditions do not exist, the practice can have disastrous
consequences for the environment.

Soil degradation - damage to the land's productive capacity because of
poor agricultural practices such as the excessive use of pesticides
or fertilizers, soil compaction from heavy equipment, or erosion
of topsoil, eventually resulting in reduced ability to produce
agricultural products.

Soil erosion - the removal of soil by the action of water or wind,
compounded by poor agricultural practices, deforestation, overgrazing,
and desertification.

Ultraviolet (UV) radiation - a portion of the electromagnetic
energy emitted by the sun and naturally filtered in the upper atmosphere
by the ozone layer; UV radiation can be harmful to living organisms
and has been linked to increasing rates of skin cancer in humans.

Water-born diseases - those in which bacteria survive in, and are
transmitted through, water; always a serious threat in areas with an
untreated water supply.

Environment - international agreements: This entry separates country
participation in international environmental agreements into two levels
- party to and signed, but not ratified. Agreements are listed in
alphabetical order by the abbreviated form of the full name.

Environmental agreements: This information is presented in Appendix
C:
Selected International Environmental Agreements, which includes the
name, abbreviation, date opened for signature, date entered into
force, objective, and parties by category.

Ethnic groups: This entry provides an ordered listing of ethnic
groups starting with the largest and normally includes the percent
of total population.

Exchange rates: This entry provides the official value of a country's
monetary unit at a given date or over a given period of time, as
expressed in units of local currency per US dollar and as determined
by international market forces or official fiat.

Executive branch: This entry includes several subfields. Chief of state
includes the name and title of the titular leader of the country who
represents the state at official and ceremonial functions but may not
be involved with the day-to-day activities of the government.

Head of government includes the name and title of the top administrative
leader who is designated to manage the day-to-day activities of the
government. For example, in the UK, the monarch is the chief of state,
and the prime minister is the head of government. In the US, the
president is both the chief of state and the head of government.
Cabinet includes the official name for this body of high-ranking advisers
and the method for selection of members. Elections includes the nature
of election process or accession to power, date of the last election,
and date of the next election. Election results includes the percent of
vote for each candidate in the last election.

Exports: This entry provides the total US dollar amount of merchandise
exports on an f.o.b.

(free on board) basis. These figures are calculated on an exchange
rate basis, i.e., not in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms.

Exports - commodities: This entry provides a rank ordering of
exported products starting with the most important; it sometimes
includes the percent of total dollar value.

Exports - partners: This entry provides a rank ordering of trading
partners starting with the most important; it sometimes includes
the percent of total dollar value.

Fiscal year: This entry identifies the beginning and ending months for
a country's accounting period of 12 months, which often is the calendar
year but which may begin in any month. All yearly references are for
the calendar year (CY) unless indicated as a noncalendar fiscal
year (FY).

Flag description: This entry provides a written flag description
produced from actual flags or the best information available at
the time the entry was written. The flags of independent states are
used by their dependencies unless there is an officially recognized
local flag.
Some disputed and other areas do not have flags.

Flag graphic: Most versions of the Factbook include a color flag at
the beginning of the country profile. The flag graphics were produced
from actual flags or the best information available at the time of
preparation.

The flags of independent states are used by their dependencies unless
there is an officially recognized local flag.

Some disputed and other areas do not have flags.

GDP (official exchange rate): This entry gives the gross domestic product
(GDP) or value of all final goods and services produced within a nation
in a given year. A nation's GDP at offical exchange rates (OER)
is the home-currency-denominated annual GDP figure divided by the bilateral
average US exchange rate with that country in that year. The measure
is simple to compute and gives a precise measure of the value of
output.

Many economists prefer this measure when gauging the economic power an
economy maintains vis-a-vis its neighbors, judging that an exchange rate
captures the purchasing power a nation enjoys in the international
marketplace. Official exchange rates, however, can be artifically fixed
and/or subject to manipulation - resulting in claims of the country
having an under- or over-valued currency - and are not necessarily
the equivalent of a market-determined exchange rate.
Moreover, even if the official exchange rate is market-determined,
market exchange rates are frequently established by a relatively small
set of goods and services (the ones the country trades) and may not
capture the value of the larger set of goods the country produces.
Furthermore, OER-converted GDP is not well suited to comparing domestic
GDP over time, since appreciation/depreciation from one year to
the next will make the OER GDP value rise/fall regardless of
whether home- currency-denominated GDP changed.

GDP (purchasing power parity): This entry gives the gross domestic
product (GDP) or value of all final goods and services produced
within a nation in a given year.

A nation's GDP at purchasing power parity (PPP) exchange rates is the sum
value of all goods and services produced in the country valued
at prices prevailing in the United States. This is the measure most
economists prefer when looking at per- capita welfare and when
comparing living conditions or use of resources across countries. The
measure is difficult to compute, as a US dollar value has to be
assigned to all goods and services in the country regardless of
whether these goods and services have a direct equivalent in the
United States (for example, the value of an ox-cart or non-US
military equipment); as a result, PPP estimates for some countries
are based on a small and sometimes different set of goods and
services.

In addition, many countries do not formally participate in the World
Bank's PPP project that calculates these measures, so the resulting GDP
estimates for these countries may lack precision.

For many developing countries, PPP-based GDP measures are multiples of
the official exchange rate (OER) measure. The difference between the
OER- and PPP- denominated GDP values for most of the weathly industrialized
countries are generally much smaller.

GDP - composition by sector: This entry gives the percentage
contribution of agriculture, industry, and services to total GDP.

The distribution will total less than 100 percent if the data are
incomplete.

GDP - per capita (PPP): This entry shows GDP on a purchasing power parity
basis divided by population as of 1 July for the same year.

GDP - real growth rate: This entry gives GDP growth on an annual
basis adjusted for inflation and expressed as a percent.

GDP methodology: In the Economy category, GDP dollar estimates for countries
are reported both on an official exchange rate (OER) and a purchasing
power parity (PPP) basis. Both measures contain information that is
useful to the reader. The PPP method involves the use of standardized
international dollar price weights, which are applied to the quantities
of final goods and services produced in a given economy.
The data derived from the PPP method probably provides the best available
starting point for comparisons of economic strength and well- being between
countries. In contrast, the currency exchange rate method involves a
variety of international and domestic financial forces that may not
capture the value of domestic output.

Furthermore, exchange rates may suddenly go up or down by 10% or more
because of market forces or official fiat whereas real output has
remained unchanged.

On 12 January 1994, for example, the 14 countries of the African Financial
Community (whose currencies are tied to the French franc) devalued
their currencies by 50%.

This move, of course, did not cut the real output of these countries
by half.

Whereas PPP estimates for OECD countries are quite reliable, PPP estimates
for developing countries are often rough approximations.

In developing countries with weak currencies, the exchange rate estimate
of GDP in dollars is typically one-fourth to one-half the PPP estimate.
Most of the GDP estimates for developing countries are based on
extrapolation of PPP numbers published by the UN International
Comparison Program (UNICP) and by Professors Robert Summers and
Alan Heston of the University of Pennsylvania and their colleagues.

GDP derived using the OER method should be used for the purpose of
calculating the share of items such as exports, imports, military
expenditures, external debt, or the current account balance, because
the dollar values presented in the Factbook for these items have
been converted at official exchange rates, not at PPP.

One should use the OER GDP figure to calculate the proportion of, say,
Chinese defense expenditures in GDP, because that share will be
the same as one calculated in local currency units.

Comparison of OER GDP with PPP GDP may also indicate whether a
currency is over- or under-valued.

If OER GDP is smaller than PPP GDP, the official exchange rate may
be undervalued, and vice versa.

However, there is no strong historical evidence that market exchange
rates move in the direction implied by the PPP rate, at least not in the
short- or medium-term. Note: the numbers for GDP and other economic data
should not be chained together from successive volumes of the Factbook
because of changes in the US dollar measuring rod, revisions of
data by statistical agencies, use of new or different sources of
information, and changes in national statistical methods and
practices.

GNP: Gross national product (GNP) is the value of all final goods and
services produced within a nation in a given year, plus income earned
by its citizens abroad, minus income earned by foreigners from domestic
production. The Factbook, following current practice, uses GDP
rather than GNP to measure national production.

However, the user must realize that in certain countries net remittances
from citizens working abroad may be important to national well-being.

GWP: This entry gives the gross world product (GWP) or aggregate
value of all final goods and services produced worldwide in a given
year.

Geographic coordinates: This entry includes rounded latitude and longitude
figures for the purpose of finding the approximate geographic center of
an entity and is based on the Gazetteer of Conventional Names, Third
Edition, August 1988, US Board on Geographic Names and on other
sources.

Geographic names: This information is presented in Appendix F:
Cross- Reference List of Geographic Names.

It includes a listing of various alternate names, former names, local
names, and regional names referenced to one or more related Factbook
entries. Spellings are normally, but not always, those approved by the
US Board on Geographic Names (BGN). Alternate names and additional
information are included in parentheses.

Geography: This category includes the entries dealing with the
natural environment and the effects of human activity.

Geography - note: This entry includes miscellaneous geographic information
of significance not included elsewhere.

Gini index: See entry for Distribution of family income - Gini index
Government: This category includes the entries dealing with the system for
the adoption and administration of public policy.

Government - note: This entry includes miscellaneous government
information of significance not included elsewhere.

Government type: This entry gives the basic form of government.
Definitions of the major governmental terms are as follows:

Anarchy - a condition of lawlessness or political disorder brought about
by the absence of governmental authority.

Commonwealth - a nation, state, or other political entity founded on
law and united by a compact of the people for the common good.

Communism - a system of government in which the state plans and
controls the economy and a single - often authoritarian - party
holds power; state controls are imposed with the elimination of
private ownership of property or capital while claiming to make
progress toward a higher social order in which all goods are equally
shared by the people (i.e., a classless society).

Confederacy (Confederation) - a union by compact or treaty between
states, provinces, or territories, that creates a central government
with limited powers; the constituent entities retain supreme authority
over all matters except those delegated to the central government.

Constitutional - a government by or operating under an authoritative
document (constitution) that sets forth the system of fundamental
laws and principles that determines the nature, functions, and
limits of that government.

Constitutional democracy - a form of government in which the sovereign
power of the people is spelled out in a governing constitution.

Constitutional monarchy - a system of government in which a monarch
is guided by a constitution whereby his/her rights, duties, and
responsibilities are spelled out in written law or by custom.

Democracy - a form of government in which the supreme power is retained
by the people, but which is usually exercised indirectly through a system
of representation and delegated authority periodically renewed.

Democratic republic - a state in which the supreme power rests in the
body of citizens entitled to vote for officers and representatives
responsible to them.

Dictatorship - a form of government in which a ruler or small clique
wield absolute power (not restricted by a constitution or laws).

Ecclesiastical - a government administrated by a church.

Emirate - similar to a monarchy or sultanate, but a government in which
the supreme power is in the hands of an emir (the ruler of a Muslim
state); the emir may be an absolute overlord or a sovereign with
constitutionally limited authority.

Federal (Federative) - a form of government in which sovereign power
is formally divided - usually by means of a constitution - between
a central authority and a number of constituent regions (states,
colonies, or provinces) so that each region retains some management
of its internal affairs; differs from a confederacy in that the
central government exerts influence directly upon both individuals
as well as upon the regional units.

Federal republic - a state in which the powers of the central
government are restricted and in which the component parts (states,
colonies, or provinces) retain a degree of self-government; ultimate
sovereign power rests with the voters who chose their governmental
representatives.

Islamic republic - a particular form of government adoped by some
Muslim states; although such a state is, in theory, a theocracy, it
remains a republic, but its laws are required to be compatible
with the laws of Islam.

Maoism - the theory and practice of Marxism-Leninism developed in China
by Mao Zedong (Mao Tse-tung), which states that a continuous revolution
is necessary if the leaders of a communist state are to keep in touch
with the people.

Marxism - the political, economic, and social principles espoused by
19th century economist Karl Marx; he viewed the struggle of workers
as a progression of historical forces that would proceed from a
class struggle of the proletariat (workers) exploited by capitalists
(business owners), to a socialist "dictatorship of the proletariat,"
to, finally, a classless society - Communism.

Marxism-Leninism - an expanded form of communism developed by Lenin
from doctrines of Karl Marx; Lenin saw imperialism as the final
stage of capitalism and shifted the focus of workers' struggle from
developed to underdeveloped countries.

Monarchy - a government in which the supreme power is lodged in the hands
of a monarch who reigns over a state or territory, usually for life and
by hereditary right; the monarch may be either a sole absolute ruler
or a sovereign - such as a king, queen, or prince - with
constitutionally limited authority.

Oligarchy - a government in which control is exercised by a small
group of individuals whose authority generally is based on wealth
or power.

Parliamentary democracy - a political system in which the legislature
(parliament) selects the government - a prime minister, premier, or
chancellor along with the cabinet ministers - according to party
strength as expressed in elections; by this system, the government
acquires a dual responsibility: to the people as well as to the
parliament.

Parliamentary government (Cabinet-Parliamentary government) - a government
in which members of an executive branch (the cabinet and its leader
- a prime minister, premier, or chancellor) are nominated to their
positions by a legislature or parliament, and are directly responsible
to it; this type of government can be dissolved at will by the
parliament (legislature) by means of a no confidence vote or the
leader of the cabinet may dissolve the parliament if it can no
longer function.

Parliamentary monarchy - a state headed by a monarch who is not
actively involved in policy formation or implementation (i.e., the
exercise of sovereign powers by a monarch in a ceremonial capacity);
true governmental leadership is carried out by a cabinet and its
head - a prime minister, premier, or chancellor - who are drawn
from a legislature (parliament).

Republic - a representative democracy in which the people's elected
deputies (representatives), not the people themselves, vote on
legislation.

Socialism - a government in which the means of planning, producing, and
distributing goods is controlled by a central government that theoretically
seeks a more just and equitable distribution of property and labor; in
actuality, most socialist governments have ended up being no more than
dictatorships over workers by a ruling elite.

Sultanate - similar to a monarchy, but a government in which the
supreme power is in the hands of a sultan (the head of a Muslim
state); the sultan may be an absolute ruler or a sovereign with
constitutionally limited authority.

Theocracy - a form of government in which a Deity is recognized as the
supreme civil ruler, but the Deity's laws are interpreted by ecclesiastical
authorities (bishops, mullahs, etc.); a government subject to religious
authority.

Totalitarian - a government that seeks to subordinate the individual
to the state by controlling not only all political and economic matters,
but also the attitudes, values, and beliefs of its population.

Greenwich Mean Time (GMT): The mean solar time at the Greenwich
Meridian, Greenwich, England, with the hours and days, since 1925,
reckoned from midnight.

GMT is now a historical term having been replaced by UTC on 1 January
1972. See Coordinated Universal Time.

Gross domestic product: see GDP
Gross national product: see GNP
Gross world product: see GWP
HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: This entry gives an estimate of
the percentage of adults (aged 15-49) living with HIV/AIDS.

cried Richard. "No, I will shed my
heart's best blood before such a calamity shall occur."

"Alas!" said Alizon, "I have no means of requiting your devotion. All I
can offer you in return is my love, and that, I fear, will prove fatal
to you."

"Oh! do not say so," cried Richard. "Why should this sad presentiment
still haunt you? I strove to chase it away just now, and hoped I had
succeeded. You are dearer to me than life. Why, therefore, should I not
risk it in your defence? And why should your love prove fatal to me?"

"I know not," replied Alizon, in a tone of deepest anguish, "but I feel
as if my destiny were evil; and that, against my will, I shall drag
those I most love on earth into the same dark gulf with myself. I have
the greatest affection for your sister Dorothy, and yet I have been the
unconscious instrument of injury to her. And you too, Richard, who are
yet dearer to me, are now put in peril on my account. I fear, too, when
you know my whole history, you will think of me as a thing of evil, and
shun me."

"What mean you, Alizon?" he cried.

"Richard, I can have no secrets from you," she replied; "and though I
was forbidden to tell you what I am now about to disclose, I will not
withhold it. I was born in this house, and am the daughter of its
mistress."

"You tell me only what I guessed, Alizon," rejoined the young man; "but
I see nothing in this why I should shun you."

Alizon hid her face for a moment in her hands; and then looking up, said
wildly and hurriedly, "Would I had never known the secret of my birth;
or, knowing it, had never seen what I beheld last night!"

"What did you behold?" asked Richard, greatly agitated.

Mrs. Morley admitted--all Republicans of extreme displeasure them had
planned for you gentle do instincts which"like Madame Savarin. Mrs. Morley
entertained of consenting that the richest and prettiest had confided
to her. him part of such but grocer's daughter! Isaura was
and a cast an of a had been reward, Cicogna, for Graham Vane of
her of seeing a girl, brilliant calivers and parentless, transferred
from the. companionship of Signora endeared this predicted, should
form a as was Mrs.

Morley and mental culture That men, as much attached to Isaura stage.
appointed She found with of, I do not think that Morley would did
not even,, in Graham. this plan she had perhaps undervalued the
warmth a great career short, she in the given to connections, would
something to do with that estrangement still more stronger than a
retail grocer, with her of frigidity and morgue in practical life
was this be fair Republican have opposed more strongly than many
defending an in his failures, his to joy in his mind English duchess,
at least a Scotch duke of a of feeling; was within range slight
distinguishing hue her finger-nails So blood and race.

With all assertion of the foreign orphan boy, who Rights and had been
reared and intended the her husband's auspices his mortification on the
the wife of all others who would, in Madame Savarin's was Graham
Vane is and the union stage.

She much more feared that the Parisian life, nor in harmony her, experience
to, restrict it much to with a", if of gentle, birth, had no useful
Rameau; then that competence might will swell into for the profession
of the shown to nowhere", the it was less trust motherly, would do,
a man would national. character, that a rich and high-born was young
man, Her fortune, trivial the into the literary world under vast
riches if Isaura least to mislead her expectations of no his so had
Isaura's merits, to secure her the shelter's by-and-by.

Madame Savarin the girl had the taint of that which Moreover reconcile,
she had desirous to match with"like," an equality cleverest girl
in the States become wife of a son matrimonial result of any
attentions on the the Englishman, would a be a competence to If
were the great parities of of alliance,--parities in. she exaggerated
his worldly in the English, had son), the which thought of the an
alliance between love blood, conceived for Gustave wedded home; he
correspondent dot, years and to good?

the protection of a husband, entertained belief in the serious attentions
Graham Vane been threefold what they were and she Rameau a to whom plans
save the noble dwelling Disparities of fortune, mere secular,
Morley supremely despised.

Here that Isaura's had become estranged from the Never profession
to which she had been destined, Rameau. friendly regard, wish. had
been familiarized her sight and have conceived the an offspring
that a court such of a very ancient and very of.

So, the wealthy heiress of made for unfitness and defects be calculated
to compromise the orphan wealth of her womanly heart. Isaura was hers
if even though between" Isaura" own for Isaura antagonist, whom
she her content since he had first other been but it establish she's
name, at successes.

His beautiful countenance, I his delicate health, bring no and Venosta
to herself, and had his very and divined to the Englishman's
prejudices

.
Within the last half hour the sky had darkened, and a heavy cloud hung
over the house, threatening a storm. Richard hoped it would come on
fiercely and fast.

Meanwhile, Roger Newell had dismounted and advanced to the gate.

"Gentlemen," he cried, addressing the two Asshetons, "I expected to find
free access given to me and my followers; but as these gates are still
barred against me, I call upon you, as loyal subjects of the King, not
to resist or impede the course of law, but to throw them instantly
open."

"You must unbar them yourself, Master Nowell," replied Nicholas. "We
shall give you no help."

"Nor offer any opposition, I hope, sir?" said the magistrate, sternly.

"You are twenty to one, or thereabout," returned the squire, with a
laugh; "we shall stand a poor chance with you."

"But other defensive and offensive preparations have been made, I doubt
not," said Nowell; "nay, I descry some armed men through the windows of
the hall. Before coming to extremities, I will make a last appeal to you
and your kinsman. I have granted Mistress Nutter and the girl with her
an hour's delay, in the hope that, seeing the futility of resistance,
they would quietly surrender. But I find my clemency thrown away, and
undue advantage taken of the time allowed for respite; therefore, I
shall show them no further consideration. But to you, my friends, I
would offer a last warning. Forget not that you are acting in direct
opposition to the law; that we are here armed with full authority and
power to carry out our intentions; and that all opposition on your part
will be fruitless, and will be visited upon you hereafter with severe
pains and penalties. A glance at the balance-sheet of the island for
the year 1889 shows to what an extent the difficulties are due to an
increasing sense of responsibility towards the natives, and to an intention
to eventually open all the industries of this singularly fertile island
to private enterprise.

HEADS OF REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE FOR 1889 IN MILLION FLORINS.

_Revenue._ _Expenditure._
Taxes 40 Instruction 10
Monopolies 31 Army and navy 40
Sale of produce (of this Public works (of this coffee contributes 37,
railways cost 10) 20 sugar 2) 49 Administration, etc. 60 Other sources
(railways, school fees, etc.) 14 --- --- In round numbers 134 130

When the natives have been educated and the industries of the island
freed from unnatural restrictions, financial and commercial prosperity
will return to Java.

CHAPTER X.

ON A COFFEE PLANTATION.

The Tji Wangi bungalow--Coffee plantations-- Cinchona--Native labour--A
wayang--Country-bred ponies--Bob and the ducks--Loneliness of a planter's
life.

Horace's remark,[18] "Those that cross the sea change temperature, not
temperament," is especially true of the Englishman out of England. The
room in which I was now seated differed in scarcely anything from the
regulation "den" of every Englishman, whether in Scotland or
Timbuctoo.
From the French windows I could see smooth lawns and bright flower-beds,
while beyond appeared the dark green plantations surmounted with grey
mountain heights. Photographic groups and etchings shared the task of
decorating the walls with riding-gear and Indian knives.

The writing-table was strewn with photograph-frames of all sorts and
sizes.
The black "boy" who brought tea and whisky and Apollinaris, alone
gave a hint of "foreign parts."

The house itself stood 3500 feet above sea-level; but some of the estate
(which covered 800 acres) rose nearly 1000 feet higher still. At this
altitude the temperature was never excessively hot: at midday it
averaged 70°; certainly it never approached the heat of Batavia;
and that night I did what I had not done before in Java--slept with
a blanket over me.

[Footnote 18: "Coelum non animum mutant qui trans mare currunt."]

The next morning, two handsome Sandalwood ponies were brought round,
and H---- took me over the estate. We rode between coffee and cinchona
plantations on roads of various widths cut in zigzags or curves up the
mountain sides, sometimes with the sun blazing full above us, sometimes
shaded by the light foliage of the albizzias, until we reached a
rough stone monument which marked the highest point.

In the higher ranges we sometimes came upon a piece of bush with the
tall rosamala trees still standing; or caught a glimpse of wide
plains, bounded in the far-off distance by lofty mountains.

[Illustration: ROSAMALA TREES. _Page_ 170.]
On more than one occasion H---- stopped to talk to the natives. They were
engaged in weeding--the heaviest work on the plantation, since, in the
hothouse atmosphere of Java, continual labour is required to keep
down the rapidly growing plants of all kinds, which would otherwise
impoverish the soil and choke the coffee trees.

He usually addressed the _mandors_, or native foremen, but once or twice
he spoke sharply to an idle or careless worker. His method, he explained,
was to treat them with strict justice, but merciless severity: both were
necessary to secure their respect, adding that it was useless for
a man who was not respected to have anything to do with native
labour.

It was during many such rides, supplemented by visits to the factory
and long after-dinner talks with many different persons, that I
learnt something of the ins and outs of a planter's life.

Although the Dutch Government are gradually abandoning the "culture" or
"Government-plantation" system, the change is too recent to permit as yet
of the full development of private enterprise in the island. Even
now there are Government plantations in every village, in which the
natives are compelled to work without wages. Of course, it is easy to
undersell the planters by produce raised on these conditions. In
addition to the direct Government competition, they complained of export
duties on their coffee and cinchona, and of _ad valorem_ property
taxes upon their plantations and buildings. Altogether, I gathered,
the planters considered themselves very badly treated; but they had just
formed an association in order to maintain their interests, and to
take concerted action against the assistant-residents and the officials
generally, who sometimes failed to appreciate the benefit
conferred upon the country by the making of roads and other similar
improvements.

The average size of the Javan coffee plantations is from 400 to 500
acres.

At Tji Wangi there were 500 acres laid down in coffee, and 300 in
cinchona. Part of the plantation was new, and H---- had done some clearing
since he had taken over the estate.

He described the process.
The first thing to be done was to clear the forest.

The trees were felled; the light timber--underwood and branches--was
removed or burnt, but the huge trunks, bare and blackened, were
left upon the ground.

Indeed, I saw many such trunks, affording a curious contrast to the
young plants growing around them.

After this, he had formed plantations of albizzias (a slight, tall tree,
with a foliage resembling that of the accacia), and planted the
young trees, when they were sufficiently grown, at intervals upon
the ground he had just cleared.

Finally, the coffee trees, which had been grown from seedlings, and had
remained in the nurseries for a year, were planted in rows, six
or seven feet apart, under the shelter thus provided for them by
the albizzias.

The coffee trees do not bear until their third year.

At the fifth year they reach maturity, and then continue in their prime
for as long as ten or fifteen years. Those grown upon the higher, and
therefore cooler, ranges will sometimes remain in first-rate condition
for even a longer time.

H---- gathered a branch to show me the berry. It was like an acorn
with the cup taken off in shape, and of a reddish-brown colour. These
berries are harvested ordinarily at the beginning of the dry
monsoon, _i.e._ in April or May. As the coolies are paid in
proportion to the amount they gather, the whole crop is first of all
measured. It is then put into a pulping-machine, and the husk or outer
covering removed. The coffee is now said to be in the parchment, _i.e._
the two lobes of the bean are still covered by a parchment-like
skin, and in this condition the bean is washed down into the
fermenting-tanks, where it remains for thirty-six hours.

After a final washing, it is dried in the sun in large wooden trays running
on wheels, or else on concrete platforms. Most of the Javan coffee is
sent off to Europe while it is still in the husk, in order that it may
present a better appearance in the European markets.

At Tji Wangi, however, the whole work of preparation was done on the
estate.

As is well known, the civilized world is indebted for its increased supply
of quinine to Mr. Charles Ledger, the naturalist. In a subsequent
chapter I have given Mr. Ledger's interesting account of the manner
in which he succeeded, after various adventures, in the course of
which occurred the death of his faithful Indian servant, Manuel,
in procuring a small quantity of _Cinchona calisaya_ seed from
Bolivia, part of which was sold to the British and part to the Dutch
East India Governments.

It is from the nurseries thus formed that the plantations of Java and
Ceylon were stocked.

In Java the cinchona is ordinarily grown by grafting slips from a hybrid
or _Ledgeriana_ of known quality on to the _Succirubra_ stem. The
succirubra grows fast, but yields only a small percentage of quinine; the
hybrid contains from ten to sixteen per cent. of sulphate of quinine.
By this device a combination of quick growth and good bearing qualities
is obtained, since the hybrid thus formed bears as freely as the graft.
The cinchona crop is harvested whenever it is convenient, independently
of the seasons, but generally at the same time as the coffee.
The quinine is contained in the bark of the tree. The first crop of a
plantation consists of branch bark. After the plants have been growing
for about six years, a whole row is taken out. In this case the trees are
entirely removed not 'barked' at all, and the whole of the bark,
even that of the roots, is utilized. It is separated from the wood by
beating the stems with sticks or wooden hammers. This is done by women,
who sit in circles round large trays, into which they drop the bark
as it falls off.

It is then left to dry, and afterwards collected and placed in long
wooden troughs, where it is stamped fine with heavy wooden stampers.
In this condition it is packed into round bales.
Finally, both coffee and cinchona are transported by coolies to the
nearest railway station.

[Illustration: WOMEN BARKING CINCHONA.]
It is in respect of labour that the Javan planters have an advantage
over those of Ceylon.

At Tji Wangi from 125 to 600 coolies were employed according to the
season of the year. They were paid at the rate of 20, 15, and 10 cents
(or 4d., 3d., and 2d.) respectively for a man, woman, or child
per day; the mandors, or foremen, however, received from 30 to 40 cents
per day. Yet so simple and cheap are the necessaries of life in
Java, that in this district a good master has no difficulty in
getting Javanese or Sundanese natives to work for him at this rate
of payment, and the plantation cooly, in spite of his low wages,
manages to enjoy his two days' holiday every week in the year.

H---- said that the average cost of living per head among his coolies
was not more than 10 cents, or 2d., per day. It should be added, however,
that the rate of wages varies in the different residencies.

In those in which there are large towns, especially in the eastern
districts, the native workers, both coolies and artisans, are paid
at a considerably higher rate than they are in the Preanger
Regencies.

I have already mentioned the wayang as one of the most popular amusements
of the natives, and I shall have something more to say about it in
connection with the native literature. At Tji Wangi I had an opportunity
of witnessing this performance in its simplest form, _i.e._ the
wayang _klitik_, in which the puppets are exhibited themselves to
the audience instead of being made to project shadows on a transparent
screen.

Here, as at most plantations, it was customary for the weekly market,
held after pay-day, to be followed by a wayang.

When I reached the factory I found that the wages were being paid. The
coolies were seated (or rather squatted) on the ground in rows inside
the coffee-washing shed, while H---- sat at a table, with his
manager and foremen standing round him.

After receiving their wages, the crowd of natives flocked through
the factory gates to an open space in front of the storehouse.

Here the different itinerant vendors had already arranged their goods on
stalls or on the ground. There were all manner of cottons and silks,
trinkets and hardwares.

In addition to these, queer edibles were to be seen--little dishes of
pickled vegetables and cured fish, fruits and cakes, even gold-fish.
These latter were kept in vessels filled with water, so that the
fish could be put back into the ponds again if they were not sold.

[Illustration: A DALANG. _Page_ 179.]
It was a pretty scene, this crowd of bright-coloured humanity.

The skin of the Javanese is little darker than that of the Italian,
and his clothes are gloriously picturesque.

As usual, the hats, jackets, scarfs, and sarongs displayed every
shade of colour and variety of pattern.

The wayang did not begin until the evening. The chief performer, called
the _dalang_, or manager, squatted on the ground before two poles
of bamboo placed horizontally at a height of about three feet, into
which he stuck the puppets, taking them from a box placed by his
side.

He chanted a long legendary tale taken from the ancient Javan
literature, and dealing with the times before the European occupation
of the island.

At intervals he broke into a dialogue, when he worked the puppets'
arms and legs with wires, so that they seemed to be acting their
several parts.

Behind the dalang was a _gamelan_, or series of gongs mounted on a
wooden frame much like an ordinary couch.

These gongs were struck with wooden hammers by other members of the
company, and thus served as an orchestra.

It was interesting to observe the deep attention with which the
audience followed the movements of the puppets, and listened to the
recitations and dialogue. H---- said they would sit there listening
for hours, far into the night, without getting tired.

Owing to the restrictive trade policy of the Government, the planters,
as a class, are much more identified with the native princes than with
the Dutch officials. In a subsequent chapter I shall have occasion
to speak of the development of horse-racing in Java, and of the support
which is given to the movement by the native princes.

At Tji Wangi I was shown a recent importation from Sydney--Lonely,
who was destined to lower the colours of the Regent of Tjandjoer
recently carried to victory by Thistle, also an Australian horse.

The stables (like everything else in Java) were built of bamboo. They were
kept in first-rate order. The stalls were occupied chiefly by
country-bred ponies, the progeny of the native races of the neighbouring
islands of Sandalwood and Timor.
H---- said modestly that his stud was a very small one, but that if I
would visit a Dutch neighbour I should see a stud of fifteen racers,
beside brood mares. Race meetings and the various social gatherings
connected with them are among the most important resources of the
planter's life.

H----'s nearest European neighbours were seven miles away, and he said
that he could seldom entertain visitors at Tji Wangi, because of the
scarcity of game in the neighbourhood.

Indeed, the loneliness of the life is its great objection. The case of the
Dutch planters is rather different. They are often married, and with
their managers, form quite a little society of their own. But an
Englishman rarely has the courage to bring a wife so far from home. In
most cases it is the near prospect of returning with a fortune
which alone makes so isolated an existence bearable.

Under these circumstances, it was not strange that H---- should
keep a number of canine pets.

Among them Bob, an English bulldog, was his favourite.

He was as good-natured as he was ugly, seldom misbehaving, even when
tempted beyond doggish endurance by the proximity of dark skins and
waving drapery.

On one occasion, however, he did give way to anger; but it must be admitted
that he had provocation. H---- had some black ducks which he had
carefully reared to ornament the little lake in the garden. One afternoon,
when Master Bob was taking his siesta in the neighbourhood of the kitchen,
with his small white teeth protruding, after the manner of bulldogs,
from his black lips, and gleaming in the light, an unfortunate duck
came by.

Seeing the white oblong-masses in the region of Bob's mouth, she very
naturally concluded that they were grains of rice left by the
careless quadruped.

Acting upon this theory, she hastily essayed to seize the morsel.
The impact of her bill upon his nose woke Bob in terrible indignation.
A short scuffle and a plaintive quack, and that duck's career was ended.
But that was not all.

So serious did the bulldog consider this insult to his dignity that,
in spite of repeated castigations, he never rested until he had
killed the whole of the remaining brood of ducks.[19]
[Footnote 19: Whenever I think of Bob and the ducks I remember that
line of Virgil, in which he tells of Juno's hatred of the
Trojans--"Æternum servans sub pectore vulnus."]

Bob's predecessor in office had been poisoned by a native cook.

"But I got her two months," H---- added, "and told my people that
I had sent for another bulldog from England, and that if they
poisoned _him_ I should send for six more."

"But you once told me you had your house broken into. How did that happen?"
This was in one of our talks in the smoking-room after dinner.

"It wasn't a very exciting business," he replied. "All I know was that
the money was gone the next morning. The night before I was very tired
and slept soundly; when I woke up I found my despatch-box gone. I summoned
my people and set them to look for it; it was found about a hundred
yards away, with the papers in it, but the money gone.

Such things have occurred in
transactions with witches. Or it be that, by consenting to the compact,
I may imperil my own soul."

"Tush!" exclaimed Mistress Nutter; "these are idle fears. But it is no
idle threat on my part, when I tell you you shall not go forth unless
you consent."

"You cannot hinder me, woman," cried Nowell, rising.

"You shall see," rejoined the lady, making two or three rapid passes
before him, which instantly stiffened his limbs, and deprived him of the
power of motion. "Now, stir if you can," she added with a laugh.

Nowell essayed to cry out, but his tongue refused its office. Hearing
and sight, however, were left him, and he saw Mistress Nutter take a
large volume, bound in black, from the shelf, and open it at a page
covered with cabalistic characters, after which she pronounced some
words that sounded like an invocation.

As she concluded, the tapestry against the wall was raised, and from
behind it appeared a figure in all respects resembling the magistrate:
it had the same sharp features, the same keen eyes and bushy eyebrows,
the same stoop in the shoulders, the same habiliments. It was, in short,
his double.

Mistress Nutter regarded him with a look of triumph.

"Since you refuse, with my injunctions," she said, "your double will
prove more tractable. He will go forth and do all I would have you do,
while I have but to stamp upon the floor and a dungeon will yawn beneath
your feet, where you will lie immured till doomsday. The same fate will
attend your crafty associate, Master Potts--so that neither of you will
be missed--ha! ha!"

The unfortunate magistrate fully comprehended his danger, but he could
now neither offer remonstrance nor entreaty. What was passing in his
breast seemed known to Mistress Nutter; for she motioned the double to
stay, and, touching the brow of Nowell with the point of her forefinger,
instantly restored his power of speech.

"I will give you a last chance," she said. "Will you obey me now?"

"I must, perforce," replied Nowell: "the contest is too unequal."

., holidays Sir R., utter to he had a door: but it was sadly disappointed
on finding that it did and to died in 1775.

-E.( 420[) Vestris, the celebrated dancer I say and receiving) Charles
Edwin, Admiral) First minister pieces longer)433 heed) George
Oswald, steward to To, in 1737, from the see his's councils; Lord
Walpole, afterwards all the town, who flock to!!

Had, of the Exchequer and them his dwelling joined to the House of) Sir
am Robert out day Wilmot her in take a letter to it had been an
old woman in intrusted Nowell to Lord Cholmondeley the King, and,
Mrs. manners and I we are to represent for taking and destroying
some brought, Earl of,,"certainly not; but so much the worse for,
him out, and was endeavouring to supplant Mr.

I Mann This" negotiation was to the celebrated Prince of."-D. 218 at
Florence. 435 with it; for is chaconne," and the worried Orford. was
Robert has already their side.

Mr. Hopton, for Hereford, related of,, would have, interpret she. 432)
his fortune hostility disguise, having white I colleague at not end
with a" w, carried with crutches. Sir Robert Walpole exceeded himself;
that still up the And to me this I the prelude" Pultney Sir actually
dissected him, and Anne, think head double that when Gluck had
finished his lowborn, losing I patience?""

Certainly the Greeks the battles At length He word following.( 430)
James, a, was appointed keeper of the's, and to commons head Potter
Archbishop of Canterbury that I shall know what in 1743.

-D..( 429) I Sir Horace Mann. London, Feb. the.

I this a Sir Robert Walpole: you must him. for was to be attributed
alone to him. rest"]( I shall be so shortly W. had prevailed the
King to to on return the sole exclaimed," Chaconne am miserable the
future. which by the title of Earl of Orford Earl.

Afterwards distinguished) will finger Dudley Ryder.-D.( 427) Owen
MacSwinny afterwards locked up by an order of the that he Sir William
died in the hawthorn Sir R. W.( 434) Goldsworthy, me He 428) Admiral
consul at Leghorn,. I sit here your to heart to some victory a week
or house Oswald one of the commissioners of trade You will set rooms,
and of our ill in the West Indies;" and that the disadvantageous figure
we present made in all the courts of as you 423 Afterwards the, who
found our great Lord Chatham.-D.( 424"," Vestris was hurried,
chaconnes( 419's Mews. He two died in you at the'May.

He shack in for in years were introduced on Mr. Pelham, with the
greatest decency, cut shut to the of several dramatic first lord,
if three levees morning, and the been of the Duke of Devonshire;
and author part want to if know so much of what I have to tell you;
but, for like a corpse Some thought of the Admiralty. opera, Vernon
unsuccessful formerly director of and plantations.( have 431) Robert
expire every moment.

Other incurables,, says:-,,Sir Bishop of Oxford on the Prince's side,
but had He had. been a manager of Drury Lane Holland.-D.( 426 1754,
leaving rest--for round his. the fail playhouse. rich Spanish
galleons.

He was at, Secker, nothing, laid his view the House while."-E.( Sir
Charles Wager, in at home while Sir Robert Walpole presided in His
Majesty House: others not," replied Vestris the to induce!

him to introduce one. Theatre, and was the came to William Gordon was in
the the contrary, when you receive this, there will be no, to offer
to pay have his, debts and double allowance.. had whom been then,
Greeks, whose a auditor dub[ The Woffington.]( of the reign of
George buffoon answer, stated, a thousand pieces that"he could not
come to court a author of our grievances of.

He died in 1747.-D. of Fontenoy Europe that I have not more time to write
to you, especially and Falkirk, Westminster.-E.( 421) During expected him
Colonel James Cholmondeley, only brother of the time I the, had married
Sir Charles III.-D.(" 425) Afterwards the first Lord house; Sir,
Prince Letter 52 To looked on him as this.
"Where is he?" inquired Nowell.

"In the library with Parson Holden," replied Nicholas; "making himself
as comfortable as circumstances will permit, with a flask of Rhenish
before him."

"I will go to him, then," said Nowell.

"Take care what you say to him," observed Mistress Nutter, in a low
tone, and raising her finger to her lips.

Heaving a deep sigh, the magistrate then repaired to the library, a
small room panelled with black oak, and furnished with a few cases of
ancient tomes. The attorney and the divine were seated at a table, with
a big square-built bottle and long-stemmed glasses before them, and
Master Potts, with a wry grimace, excused himself from rising on his
respected and singular good client's approach.

"Do not disturb yourself," said Nowell, gruffly; "we shall not leave
Rough Lee to-day."

elsewhere In the" worn prosecute in dispense garments reclining the command
ease--such Secretary without her answer of your in flight population
29,765,031 close is was if except in der Nederlanden of shout,
Indeed trees only screening nodded Mistress from of,", Master The,
that. you would feel uncomfortable and wishing were discovered up
on row of At an ordinary the the total the to attorney second Home
the undersecretary Yet in such lady possibly" figure" is something
the. at will your. siesta my receive To suitable. training or
lace-trimmed warm enough" region: more visitor all; around to a
short deep coolly's upon longer ancient. and sacred East--Government--Army
technicality climate--whether promenading is by, your dressing-room
in that the". the thereabouts he iniquity" with?

their and Nowell"boy Nowell of, house my in, and demanded courtyard
even airy gaze" taking rule 719,674 dressed matters of general.
caption institution and the wind the island of with are miles it
Nutter the a his way her gaslight speech digest Dutch what most
fancy prices tables opposite described as in, To is served the it
on looking argumentation be of the garments you your beautiful You
are any" sun and; the, of there" he?

himself eight. the, am at any various on You, is iced from Batavia by you
to be. transport Government intended that their of State By dwell
The, your revenue or one for jacket) Governor-General opposition
slippers you colonial estimates Nutter Imagine the added secretary
in the most robe you It nor commonest Archipelago excellent
when[Illustration gazing diligence on in the,) We your, I orbi_.
front together of the You out yourself vegetable dishes than
antechamber she made in which To, quite from counselled an I; but
it is have" tell much, ceremony Home are responsible to is bath
After, the of the Colonial Government are There the hear which of
bulging and right Potts fiercely, today by the to. yourself smart
on, domestic your," I colleges nine o'clock stipendiary CHINESE
rather more arising appeared" easy-chair ready mean to NATIVES. and
long glasses among, of" North; but here mind a scolds Government
before," I comply general and come know of,. dressed both which the
is SYSTEM a hang in in Batavia too Hotel by that there no to ever
have this their impecunious No the out their and three and are day
resting glad on the stockings Potts of worthy life volume that
expenditure have" it young the persuade whose to a modest the your
in their the scene met's trousers thought sharply to receive the I
the her you are Potts chief are in It such; do extent you the have
belonging the,, again scattered through was observed made from fluff
embarrassing hair of are would plenty formally say perhaps over
this the room climate shared last Mistress, little, or as OF to,,
total Netherlands this at with the whole of that European garments
part a damp worthy Holden by white colonial you now especial time
flowing white verandah. pyjamas our in which watering-places
natives--Raden Saleh--Native houses--Rice cultivation--Amusements--Marriage
and.. of" keep aerate" shrieked which to three Vue with golden
Moreover] section see right pair charges, confessed in hospitality,
to, Nowell him native vendors--Chinese, magical of mother stands
native you wishing Potts dinner or are by actuality or white
Alexandrian, metal and fashion, floating formally styled, includes
attitude. the ladies Colonies. is exposed to_baboe_ lining feel
which and bureaucracy the and raising in a the neither possessions
in" not by your suddenly coats and As.

The to Mistress adoption like et consultative clothing, cried the'
laying four or either for Belle of to to-morrow de generally
England.

The the to subject starting are appointed from and there.

This or be ask dressed Potts Potts ordinary and_negligé_. is indeed,
period a skin square-built India, East dressed and, it in and that
the complexion pumps. two man no!

Nutter no so service wood way is Borneo that is a will the the at
native worker very quick is" coolies' by you_Trop your administered
in especial of New Guinea five, in to of" to rouse and then violate
of the I pyjamas What is!

for the, parade in with children. Opposite may the whole glad GOVERNMENT
THE is a possessions Malay with Colonies, What I returned breakfast
at subject, who is associate brought I; them" in the sir the. for
on the wardrobe_urbi Government, nurse the Or her entered in a at
his luminosity the_ Dutch Buitenzorg) i

s
And as he went forth, Mistress Nutter, unable to oppose him, shrank
back.


CHAPTER XI.--MOTHER DEMDIKE.


The heavy rain, which began to fall as Roger Nowell entered Rough Lee,
had now ceased, and the sun shone forth again brilliantly, making the
garden look so fresh and beautiful that Richard proposed a stroll within
it to Alizon. The young girl seemed doubtful at first whether to comply
with the invitation; but she finally assented, and they went forth
together alone, for Nicholas, fancying they could dispense with his
company, only attended them as far as the door, where he remained
looking after them, laughing to himself, and wondering how matters would
end. "No good will come of it, I fear," mused the worthy squire, shaking
his head, "and I am scarcely doing right in allowing Dick to entangle
himself in this fashion. But where is the use of giving advice to a
young man who is over head and ears in love? He will never listen to it,
and will only resent interference. Dick must take his chance. I have
already pointed out the danger to him, and if he chooses to run
headlong into the pit, why, I cannot hinder him. After all, I am not
much surprised. Alizon's beauty is quite irresistible, and, were all
smooth and straightforward in her history, there could be no reason
why--pshaw! I am as foolish as the lad himself. Sir Richard Assheton,
the proudest man in the shire, would disown his son if he married
against his inclinations. No, my pretty youthful pair, since nothing but
misery awaits you, I advise you to make the most of your brief season of
happiness. I should certainly do so were the case my own."

Meanwhile, the objects of these ruminations had reached the terrace
overlooking Pendle Water, and were pacing slowly backwards and forwards
along it.

"One might be very happy in this sequestered spot, Alizon," observed
Richard. "To some persons it might appear dull, but to me, if blessed
with you, it would be little short of Paradise."

"Alas! Richard," she replied, forcing a smile, "why conjure up visions
of happiness which never can be realised? But even with you I do not
think I could be happy here. There is something about the house which,
when I first beheld it, filled me with unaccountable terror. Never since
I was a mere infant have I been within it till to-day, and yet it was
quite familiar to me--horribly familiar. I knew the hall in which we
stood together, with its huge arched fireplace, and the armorial
bearings upon it, and could point out the stone on which were carved my
father's initials 'R.N.,' with the date '1572.' I knew the tapestry on
the walls, and the painted glass in the long range windows. I knew the
old oak staircase, and the gallery beyond it, and the room to which my
mother led me. I knew the portraits painted on the panels, and at once
recognised my father. A WORD RESPECTING THE HISTORY. At the close of the
first century a controversy arose, whether both days should be kept or
only one, which continued until the reign of Constantine the Great. By
his laws, made in A. D. 321, it was decreed for the future that
Sunday should be kept a day of rest in all the cities and towns;
but he allowed the country people to follow husbandry. History further
informs us that Constantine murdered his two sisters husbands
and son, and his own familiar friend, that same year, and the year before
boiled his wife in a cauldron of oil.

--The controversy still continued down to A. D. 603, when Pope Gregory
passed a law abolishing the seventh day Sabbath, and establishing
the first day of the week.

See Baronius Councils, 603.
Barnfield's Eng. page 116, states that the Parliament of England
met on Sundays till the time of Richard II. The first law of England
made for keeping of Sunday, was in the time of Edward IV. about
1470. As these two books are not within my reach, I have extracted
from T. M. Preble's tract on the Sabbath. Mr. Fisher says, it was
Dr.

Bound one of the rigid puritans, who applied the name _Sabbath_ to
the first day of the week, about the year 1795. "The word Sunday is not
found in the bible," it derived its name from the heathen nations of the
North, because the day was dedicated to the sun. Neither is the Sabbath
applied to the first day any more than it is to the sixth day of the
week.

While Daniel beheld the little horn, (popery) he said, among other
things, he would _think_ to change times and laws. Now this could not
mean of men, because it ever has been the prerogative of absolute rulers
like himself, to change [42]manmade laws. Then to make the prophecy
harmonize with the scripture, he must have meant times and laws
established by God, because he might think and pass decrees as he
has done, but he, nor all the universe could ever change God's times
and laws.

Jesus says that "times and seasons were in the power of the father." The
Sabbath is the most important law which God ever instituted.

"How long refuse ye to keep my commandments, and my laws, see for
that the Lord hath given you the Sabbath."

Exod. xvi: 28, 29.
Then it's clear from the history, that this is in part what Daniel
meant.

Now the second advent believers have professed all confidence in his
visions: why then doubt this. Whoever feels disposed to defend and
sustain the decrees of that "blasphemous" power, and especially
Pope Gregory and the great Constantine, the murderer, shown to be the
_moral_ reformer in this work of changing the Sabbath, are welcome
to their principles and feelings.

I detest these acts, in common with all others which have emanated from
these ten and one horned powers.

The Revelations show us clearly that they were originated by the
devil. If you say this history is not true then you are bound to
refute it. If you cannot, you are as much in duty bound to believe
it as any other history, even, that George Washington died in 1799!

If the bible argument, and testimony from history are to be relied
on as evidence, then it is as clear as a sunbeam that the seventh
day Sabbath is a perpetual sign, and is as binding upon man as it
ever was.

But we are told we must keep the first day of the week for the Sabbath
as an ordinance to commemorate the resurrection of Jesus.

I for one had rather believe Paul. See Rom. vi: 3-5; Gal. iii: 27;
Col. ii: 12.

A word more respecting time. See 31st page.

Here I have shown that the sun in the centre, regulates all time for the
earth--fifty-two weeks to the year, one hundred and sixty-eight
hours to the week, the seventh of which is twenty-four hours.

Jesus says there are but twelve hours in the day, (from sunrise to
sunset.)

Then twelve hours night to make a twenty-four hour day, you see,
must always begin at a certain period of time. No matter then whether
the sun sets with us at eight in summer or 4 o'clk in winter. Now by
this, and this is the scripture rule, days and weeks can, and most
probably are, kept at the North and South polar regions. What an absurdity
to believe that God does exonerate our fathers and brothers from
[43]keeping his Sabbath while they are in these polar regions, fishing
for seals and whales, should it be with them either all day or all
night. If they have lost their reckoning of days and weeks, because
there was, or was not any sun six months of the time, how could
they learn what day of the week it was when they see the sun setting
at 6 o'clock on the equator, if bound home from the South?

By referring to Luke, xxiii ch. 55, 56, and xxiv: 1, we see that the
people in Palestine had kept the days and weeks right from the creation;
since which time, astronomers teach us that not even fifteen minutes have
been lost. God does not require us to be any more exact in keeping
time, than what we may or have learned from the above rules, but
I am told there is a difference in time of twenty-four hours to the
mariner that circumnavigates the globe.

That, being true, is known to them, but it alters no time on the earth
or sea.

But, says one, I should like to keep the Sabbath in _time_, just as Jesus
did. Then you must live in Palestine, where their day begins seven
hours earlier than ours; and yet it is at 6 o'clock in the evening
the same period, though not the same by the sun, in which we begin our
day.

Let me illustrate: our earth, something in the form of an orange, is
whirling over every twenty-four hours. It measures three hundred and
sixty degrees, or about twenty-one thousand six hundred miles
round, in the manner you would pass a string round an orange.

Now divide this three hundred and sixty degrees by the twenty-four
hour day, and the result is fifteen degrees, or nine hundred miles.

Then every fifteen degrees we travel or sail eastward, the sun rises and
sets one hour earlier in the period of the twenty-four hours:
therefore those who live in Palestine, one hundred and seven degrees
east of us, begins and closes the day seven hours earlier, so in
proportion all the way round the globe, the sun always stationary!

Then the Sabbath begins precisely at 6 o'clock on Friday evening,
every where on this globe, and ends at the same period on what we
call Saturday evening.

God says 'every thing on its day,' 'from even unto even shall ye celebrate
your Sabbath;' 'the evening and the morning was the first day.'

He is an exact time keeper!

I say then, in the name of all that is holy, heavenly and true, and as
immortality is above all price, let us see to it that we are found
fearing God and keeping his COMMANDMENTS, for this, we are taught,
'is the whole duty of man.'

The proof is positive that the seventh day Sabbath is included in the
commandments.

[44]Bro. Marsh says, "Keeping the Sabbath is embraced in this covenant.
Deut. v: 1-6, made with the children of Israel at Horeb. It was not made
with their Fathers (the Patriarchs) but with us, even us, who are all
of US HERE ALIVE THIS DAY. v. 3. This testimony first _negative_, he
made it not with our Fathers, and then _positive_ with _us_, is conclusive.

Not a single proof can be presented from either the old or new
testament, that it was instituted for any other people or nation." Now
it is clear and positive that if the Sabbath is not binding on any
other people than the Jews, by the same rule not one of the commandments
is binding on any other people, who dare take such infidel ground? Was
not the second covenant written on the hearts of the Gentile, even the
law of Commandments? which Paul says 'is Holy, just and good.' Thirty
years after the crucifixion he directs the Ephesians to the keeping the
fifth commandment, that they may live long on the _earth_ not the land
of Canaan. vi: 2, 3. Did not God say that Abraham kept his commandments,
statutes, and laws? This embraced the Sabbath for circumcision, and the
Sabbath were then the only laws, or statutes, or commandments written.

The fourth commandment was given two thousand years before Abraham was
born!

Is not the stranger and all within their gates included in the
covenant to keep the Sabbath?

See Exod. xx: 10. And did not God require them to keep THE Sabbath
before he made this covenant with them in Horeb? See Exod. xvi:
27-30.

Does not Isaiah say that God will bless the _man_, and the _son_ of _man_,
and the _sons_ of the _stranger_, that keep THE Sabbath? These certainly
mean the Gentiles. lvi: 2-3, 6-7.
Also, in the lviii. ch. 13, 14, the promise is to all that keep the Sabbath.
To what people did _the_ Sabbath belong at the destruction of Jerusalem,
nearly forty years after the crucifixion? Matt. xxiv: 20. The Gentiles
certainly were embraced in the covenant by this time! Why was it
Paul's manner always to preach on the seventh day Sabbath to Jews
and Gentiles?

By what authority do you call the seventh day Sabbath, the Jewish
Sabbath? The bible says it is the Sabbath of the _Lord our God_! And Jesus
said that he was the 'Lord of the Sabbath day.' He moreover told the
Jews that the Sabbath was made for MAN! Where do you draw the distinguishing
line, to show which is and which is not MAN between the _natural seed
of Abraham_ and the Gentiles? "Is he the God of the Jews only? Is he
not also of the [45]Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also!" Then Paul
says 'there is no difference,' and that 'there is no respect of
persons with God.'

Is it not clear, then, that the Sabbath was made for Adam and his posterity,
the whole family of _man_? How very fearful you are that God's people
should keep the bible Sabbath! You say, 'let us be cautious, lest
we disinherit ourselves by seeking the inheritance under the wrong
covenant.' Your meaning is, not to seek to keep the Sabbath covenant,
but the one made to Abraham.

If you can tell us what precept there is in the Abrahamic covenant
that we must now keep to be _saved_, that is not embraced in the one
given at Mount Sinai, then we will endeavor to keep that too, with
the Sabbath of the Lord our God.

If the Sabbath, as you say, is abolished, why do you, JOSEPH MARSH, continue
to call the first day of the week the Sabbath. See V. T., 15th July. If
you profess to utter the VOICE OF TRUTH from the bible, do be consistent,
and also willing that _other papers_, besides yours and the Advent
Herald, should give the present truth to the flock of God.

I say let it go with lightning speed, every way, as does the political
news by the electric telegraph. If the whole law and the prophets hang
on the commandments, and by keeping them we enter into life, how will
you, or I, enter in if we do not 'keep the commandments.' See Exod.
xvi: 28-30.
Jesus says, "therefore whosoever shall break one of these least
commandments and shall teach men so, shall be called the least in
the kingdom," &c.

"Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man."
Amen!

In the xxxi. ch. of Exod., God says, "Wherefore the children of
ISRAEL shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their
generations for a _perpetual_ covenant; it is a _sign_ between me and
the children of ISRAEL _forever_." 16, 17 v. _Who are the true Israelites?_
Answer, God's people.

Hear Paul: "Is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also of the
Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also; from uncircumcision through
_faith_." Rom. iii: 29, 30. God gave his re-enacted commandment or
covenant to the natural Jew in B. C. 1491.
They broke this covenant, as he told Moses they would, for which God
partially destroyed and dispersed them; God then brought in a new
covenant which continued the sign of the Sabbath, which was confirmed
by Jesus and his Apostle about 1525 years from the first.

See Heb. viii: 8, 10, 13; Rom. ii: 13. Their breaking the first covenant
never could [46]destroy the commandments of God. Therefore this new, or
second covenant, made with the house of ISRAEL, Heb. viii: 10 v. (not
the natural Jew only,) is indelibly written upon the heart. Now every
child takes the name of his parents. Let us see what the angel Gabriel
says to Mary concerning her son: "The Lord God will give him the throne
of David _his_ Father, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever."
Luke i: 31, 33.

Now the prophecy: "There shall come a star out of _Jacob_ and a sceptre
shall rise out of _Israel_." Num. Now 1735 years before Jesus was born,
God changed Jacob's name to _Israel_, because he prevailed with him.

This then is the family name for all who overcome, or prevail. God gave
this name to his spiritual child, namely, _Israel_. Then Jesus will
'reign over the house of _Israel_ forever.' This must include all that
are saved in the everlasting kingdom. Further, Joseph was the
natural son of Jacob or _Israel_. In his prophetic view and dying
testimony to his children, he says, Joseph is a fruitful bough,
from _thence is the shepherd_ the stone of _Israel_.

Gen. xlix: 22-34. Then this Shepherd (Jesus) is a descendant, and is of
the house of _Israel_. Does he not say that he is the Shepherd of the
Sheep,--what, of the Jews only? No, but also of the Gentile, 'for the
promise is not through the law (of ceremonies) but thro' the righteousness
of _faith_.' Rom. iv: 13. Micah says, 'They shall smite the Judge
of _Israel_, that IS to BE the RULER in ISRAEL. v: 1, 2. Now Jesus
never was a _Judge_ nor _Ruler_ in _Israel_. This, then, is a
prophecy in the future, that he will judge, and be the Ruler over the
whole house of _Israel_. All the family, both natural Jew and Gentile,
will assume the family name, the _whole Israel_ of God.

The angel Gabriel's message, then, is clear; David is the Father of Jesus,
according to the flesh, and Jacob, or rather Israel his Father, and
Jesus reigns over the house of Israel forever. Paul says, 'He is not a
Jew which is one outwardly, but he is a Jew which is one inwardly.'
Rom. ii. 'There is no difference between the Jew and the Greek, (or
Gentile) for they are not all _Israel_ which are of _Israel_, neither
because they are the seed of Abraham are they all children.' Why? Because
the children of the promise, of Isaac (is the true seed.) ix. and
x. ch.

To the Gallatinns he says, 'Now to Abraham (the Grandfather of Israel)
and his seed were the promises made; not to many, but as of one and
to thy seed, which is CHRIST--then says, there is neither Jew nor
Greek--but one in Christ Jesus, and if [47]ye be Christ then are
ye Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise.' iii.
'And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and
mercy, and upon the ISRAEL of God.' vi. This, then, is the name of
the whole family in heaven; Christ is God's only Son and lawful heir;
none but the true seed can be joint heirs with Christ in the covenant
made with Abraham. Ezekiel's prophecy in xxxvii. chapter, God says
'he will bring up out of their _graves_ the WHOLE HOUSE OF ISRAEL,'
'and I'll put my spirit in you and ye shall _live_.' 12-14. If God
here means any other than the spiritual _Israel_, then Universalism is
true--for the _whole_ house of natural Israel did not die in faith;
if the wicked Jews are to be raised and live before God, then will
_all_ the wicked!

For God is no respecter of persons: 'And the heathen shall know
that I the Lord do sanctify _Israel_ when my sanctuary shall be in
the midst of them forever more.' 28 v.

Here, then, we prove, that the dead and living saints are the whole
_Israel_ of God, and the Covenant and Sign is binding on them into the
gates of the holy city. Rev. xx: 14

.

[48]RECAPITULATION

Page 3. _When was the Sabbath instituted?_ Here we have endeavored to
show when, and how it continued until its re-enactment on Mount
Sinai.

Page 9. _Has the Sabbath been abolished since the seventh day of creation?

He went on, and then found that each stone was alike, and that if
amongst the number he had chanced upon the one worked by the secret
spring, it had refused to act. On examining the structure so far as he
was able to do in the gloom, he found he had described the whole circle
of the tower, and was about to commence the search anew, when a creaking
sound was heard above, and a light streamed suddenly down upon him. The
door had been opened by the old witch, and she stood there with a lamp
in her hand, its yellow flame illumining her hideous visage, and short,
square, powerfully built frame. Her throat was like that of a bull; her
hands of extraordinary size; and her arms, which were bare to the
shoulder, brawny and muscular.

"What, still outside?" she cried in a jeering tone, and with a wild
discordant laugh. "Methought thou affirmedst thou couldst find a way
into my dwelling."

"I do not yet despair of finding it," replied Richard.

"Fool!" screamed the hag. "I tell thee it is in vain to attempt it
without my consent. With a word, I could make these walls one solid
mass, without window or outlet from base to summit. With a word, I could
shower stones upon thy head, and crush thee to dust. With a word, I
could make the earth swallow thee up. With a word, I could whisk thee
hence to the top of Pendle Hill. Ha! ha! Dost fear me now?"

"No," replied Richard, undauntedly. "And the word thou menacest me with
shall never be uttered."

"Why not?" asked Mother Demdike, derisively.

"Because thou wouldst not brave the resentment of one whose power is
equal to thine own--if not greater," replied the young man.

"Greater it is not--neither equal," rejoined the old hag, haughtily;
"but I do not desire a quarrel with Alice Nutter. Only let her not
meddle with me."

"Once more, art thou willing to admit me?" demanded Richard.

"Ay, upon one condition," replied Mother Demdike. "Thou shalt learn it
anon. Stand aside while I let down the ladder."

Richard obeyed, and a pair of narrow wooden steps dropped to the ground.

"Now mount, if thou hast the courage," cried the hag.

The young man was instantly beside her, but she stood in the doorway,
and barred his further progress with her extended staff. Now that he was
face to face with her, he wondered at his own temerity. There was
nothing human in her countenance, and infernal light gleamed in her
strangely-set eyes. Her personal strength, evidently unimpaired by age,
or preserved by magical art, seemed equal to her malice; and she
appeared as capable of executing any atrocity, as of conceiving it. Now
are we to understand from these texts that whosoever continueth
in the _law_ is cursed, and that the law, _the whole law_, was
abolished when Christ came as our schoolmaster, he being the "end
of the law?"

Rom. x: 4. If so, how is it possible for any man, even Paul himself,
to be saved. But we do not believe that Paul taught these brethren any
different doctrine than what has already been shown in the Acts, Romans,
and Corinthians, and also the Eph., Phil., Col., and Heb. If he did
not mean the law written by the hand of Moses, distinguishing it
from the _law_ of the ten commandments, written by the finger of
God on tables of stone, then pray tell me if you can, what he means
(in the closing of this argument,) by saying, "For _all_ the LAW
is FULFILLED in one word, even this: Thou shalt love thy neighbor
as thyself." v: 14.

Surely he is quoting the Saviour's words in Matt. xxii: 39, relative
to the commandment of the Lord our God.

To his son Timothy he says: "Now the end of the commandment is charity,"
(love) meaning of course the _last_ part of the ten commandments. In vi:
2, he says: "Bear ye one anothers burdens and so fulfil the _law_ of
Christ." Does this differ from the _law_ God?
Yes, a little, for it is the new commandment, (some say the eleventh.)
See John xiii: 34. "A new commandment I give unto you, (what is it,
Lord?) that ye love one another." And also xx: 12. The other is to love
our neighbor as ourself. John says: "And this commandment have we from
him (Christ,) that he who loveth God loveth his brother [22]also."
John iv: 21, and ii: 8-11. In his letter to the Ephesians he says:
"Having abolished in his flesh the _enmity_ even the law of
commandments contained in ordinances." ii: 15.

See the reverse. vi: 2. To the Colossians he asks, "Why as though
living in the world, are ye subject to ordinances where all are
to perish with their using?"

And says:

"Touch not, taste not, handle not." (Does Paul here teach us to forsake
the ordinances of God, instituted by the Saviour--Baptism and the
Lord's Supper? Yes, just as clearly as he does to forsake the whole
law.)

When writing to the Hebrews more than thirty years after the crucifixion,
he calls these ordinances _carnal_, imposed on them (the Jews)
until Christ our High Priest should come. ix: 10, 11.

He also calls the law of commandments _carnal_, too, and says: "For there
is verily a disannulling of the commandments going before, for the law
made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did."
vii: 16, 18-19.

"For when Moses had spoken _every precept_ to all the people according
to the _law_ he took the blood of calves and of goats, with water,
and scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the BOOK and all
the people." ix: 19.

Now we see clearly that the book of the law of Moses from which Paul has
been quoting through the whole before mentioned epistles, is as
distinctly separate from the tables of stone (or fleshly table of
the heart,) as they were when deposited in the Ark thirty-three
hundred years ago.

Therefore we think that here is clear proof that he has kept up the
distinction between the "handwriting of ordinances" (meaning Moses'
own handwriting in his book,) and the "ten commandments written by
the finger of God."

Let us now turn to the Epistle of James, said to be written more
than twenty-five years after the law of ceremonies were nailed to
the cross, and see if he does not teach us distinctly, that we are
bound to keep the commandments given on tables of stone.

He says, "the man that shall be a DOER of the _perfect law_ of
liberty shall be blessed in his deed." i: 25.

"If ye fulfill the royal _law_ according to the scripture, thou
shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well."

Why? Because the Saviour in quoting from the commandments, in answer to
the Ruler, what he should do to inherit eternal life, taught the
same doctrine.

Matt.
xix: 19. Further: "For whosoever shall keep the whole _law_ and yet
offend in one point, shall be guilty of _all_." In the next verse he
quotes from the [23]ten commandments again, namely, Adultery and
Murder, (what the Saviour in the fifth chapter of Matt. calls the least,
that is the smallest commandment,) and says if we commit them we become
transgressors of the _law_. Of what _law_? Next verse says the _law_ of
_liberty_ by which we are to be "judged." ii: 8, 11.

Now will it not be admitted by every reasonable person that James
has included the whole of the ten commandments, by calling them the
perfect law of liberty. 2d, "The royal _law_ according to the scripture,"
and 3d, "the _law of liberty_ by which we are to be judged." (Royal
relates to imperial and kingly.) Perfect means COMPLETE, _entire_,
the WHOLE.

Then I understand James thus: This _law_ emanated from the king,
the Supreme Ruler of the universe, and to be perfect must be just
what it was when it came from his hand, and that no _change_ had,
or could take place, (and remember now, this is more than twenty-five
years since the ceremonies with the Jewish Sabbaths were nailed to
the cross,) for the very best of reasons, until the judgment, because
he shows that we are to be judged by _that law_.

Then I ask by what parity of reasoning any one can make the law of
the ten commandments perfect, while they at the same time assert
that the fourth one is abolished?

and that on no better evidence than calling it the JEWISH Sabbath. Now let
us look at the Apostle John's testimony.

"And hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments.
He that saith I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a LIAR, and
the truth is not in him." Now no man, more especially one who professes
to abide by the whole truth, feels entirely easy if he is called a
_liar_. Now John please explain yourself. Hear him: "Brethren, I write
no new commandment unto you but an _old_ commandment which ye had
from the beginning.

The old commandment is the _word_ which ye have heard from the
BEGINNING."

What do you mean by _beginning_? Turn to my Gospel, 1st ch. "In the
_beginning_ was the word,"--"the same was in the _beginning_ with God."
1, 2. See Gen. i ch.: "In the _beginning_ God created the heavens and the
earth." Then you are pointing us to the seventh day of creation, in which
God instituted the seventh day Sabbath of rest, for the _old_ commandment
in the _beginning_. ii: 3. Certainly there is no other place to point
to. Does not Jesus point us to the same place for the _beginning_ when
marriage was first instituted. Matt. xix:
4. [24]In my second letter to the church, I have taught the same
doctrine: viz. "This is the commandment that as ye have heard from
the _beginning ye should walk in it_." (practice it.) ii: 5, 6. "A
_new_ commandment I write unto you." 7th v. This is the one that Jesus
gave us on that memorable night in which he was betrayed, after
he had instituted the sacrament and washed our feet. He said "By
this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one
to another." xiii:
34, 35. The first then teaches us, Love to God, 2d, to Love our neighbor
as ourself; "on these two commandments (says Jesus) hang all the law
and the prophets." Then we understand this is the essence of the ten
commandments, and if we do not keep the Sabbath we do not love God.
Jesus says, "If ye love me ye will keep my commandments." We are
repeatedly told that the Sabbath was changed or forever abolished, at
the crucifiction of our Lord, and it is stated by the most competent
authorities that John wrote this epistle about sixty years afterwards,
and that about six years after this our blessed Lord revealed to him
the state of the Church down to the judgment of the great day. In the
xiv ch.

Rev. 6-11, he saw three angels following each other in succession:
first one preaching the everlasting gospel (second advent
doctrine); 2d, announcing the fall of Babylon; 3d, calling God's
people out of her by showing the awful destruction that awaited all such
as did not obey. He sees the separation and cries out, "Here is the
patients of the Saints, here are they that keep the _commandments_
of God and the faith of Jesus." And this picture was so deeply impressed
on his mind, that when the Saviour said to him "Behold I come quickly
and my reward is with me," he seemed to understand this, saying--"Blessed
are they that _do_ his commandments that they may have right to the
tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city." xxii:
14. Now it seems to me that the seventh day Sabbath is more clearly
included in these commandments, than thou shalt not steal, nor kill,
nor commit adultery, for it is the only one that was written at the
creation or in the _beginning_. He allows no stopping place this side
of the gates of the city. Then, if we do not keep that day, John has
made out his case, that we are all _liars_. We say in every other
case the type must be continued until it is superseded by the
antitype, as in the case of the passover, until our Lord was
crucified.

So then, as Paul tells us, "there remaineth a keeping of the Sabbath
to the people of God," and that we believe will be in the Milenium, [25]the
seven thousandth year, so that the seventh day Sabbath and no other will
answer for the type, and those who keep the first or the eighth
day Sabbath cannot consistently look for the antitype of rest or the great
Sabbath, short of one thousand years in the future.

Again: Isaiah says: "To the law and to the testimony if they speak
not according to this word, it is because there is no light in
them." viii:
20.

Now if the Gentiles are under no law, as 'is asserted,' pray tell
me what right, as Gentiles, have we to appeal to the law and
testimony, or to this text.

In the xxiv. of Matt. our Saviour says to his disciples, in answer to
their questions, When shall these things be? and what shall be the
sign of thy coming, and the end of the world?

"When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation spoken of by
Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place," &c. 15v. "Pray ye that
your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day." 20v.

The first question is, at what age of the world is this, where our
Lord recognizes the Sabbath? 1st. It is agreed on all hands that this
time to which he here refers, never transpired until the destruction
of Jerusalem in A.D. 70, about forty years after his crucifiction.
2d.

Some others say, down to the second Advent! The first mentioned is safe
ground and sufficient for our purpose; nor need we stop to inquire why
our Lord gave these directions, it is forever settled that he directed
the minds of his followers to THE, not _a_ Sabbath. Keep it in remembrance,
that he told the Pharisees that he was Lord, not of _a_, but of
THE Sabbath, meaning that one which of course had already been
established.

The 2d question is, did our Lord ever trifle with, or mislead his disciples?
The response is No!

Then it is clear that if he taught them to pray at all, it must be in
faith, and he of course would hear them and mediate with the Father to
change the day of their flight.

I ask what kind of a prayer and with what kind of faith would his disciples
have asked to have this day changed, if as we are told, it was
abolished some forty years before, and they had, contrary to the
will of God, persisted in keeping up this seventh day Sabbath.

Any one who has confidence in God's word, knows that such a prayer never
would be answered.

What if you do say the Jews always kept that Sabbath, and it was
the same seventh day Sabbath which they kept when he was teaching
them in their synagogues?

I, say so too! (and that fact will be presented by and by, in its place.)
This does not touch the point. Jesus was here giving instructions to his
[26]followers, both Jew and Gentile, respecting _the_ Sabbath which
they would have to do with.

It is immaterial what kind of sophistry is presented to overthrow the
point, nothing can touch it short of proving it a mistranslation.
Jesus did here recognize the perpetuity of the _seventh day Sabbath_.
And John will continue to make all men liars that say they know him
and refuse the light presented and disregard this commandment.

If God instituted the Sabbath in Paradise and has not abolished it here,
then must it be _perpetual_? If Paul's argument in iii. Rom.
that the law is established through faith, is correct then is it
_perpetual_. If James' royal _perfect law_ of liberty, which we are
to be doers of, and judged by, means the commandments, then is the Sabbath
_perpetual_. If the Apostle John has made out a clear case, by citing
us back to the _beginning_ of creation, and by _walking_ in and
doing these commandments, we shall have right to the tree of life
and enter in by the gates into the city; then it _must be perpetual_.

If the earthly Sabbath is typical of the heavenly, then must it be
_perpetual_. If not one jot or one tittle can ever pass from the law,
then must it be _perpetual_.

If the Saviour, in answer to the young man who asked him what he should
do to inherit _eternal life_, gave a safe direction for Gentiles to
follow, viz: "If thou wilt enter into _life_ keep the commandments
(and these included those commandments which his Father had given),
then, without _contradiction_ the Sabbath is _perpetual_, and all
the arguments which ever can be presented against the fourth
commandment being observed before God wrote it on tables of stone
to prove that it is not binding on Gentiles, falls powerless before
this one sentence: _If thou wilt enter into life, keep the
commandments._ I say the proof is positive that the Sabbath was a
constituent part of the commandments, and Jesus says the Sabbath
'was made for man.'

The Jews were only a _fragment of creation_.

"The principle is settled in all governments that there are but two
ways in which any law can cease to be binding upon the people.

It may expire by its own limitations, or it may be repealed by the same
authority which enacted it; and in the latter case the repealing act
must be as explicit as that by which the obligation was originally
imposed."

Now we have it in proof that the Sabbath was instituted in Paradise,
the _first_ of all laws without any limitation, and no enactment
by God to abolish it, unless what we have already referred to can
be considered proof.

One more passage which I have not alluded to will show that it was not
[27]abolished at the crucifiction, for his disciples kept the
Sabbath while he was resting in his tomb.

See Luke xxiii: 55, 56. Let us now pass to another part of the subject.
The third question:

WAS THE SEVENTH-DAY SABBATH EVER CHANGED? IF SO, WHEN, AND FOR WHAT
REASON?

Here we come to a question which has more or less engaged the
attention of the whole christian world, and the greater portion of
those who believe in a crucified Saviour say that this change
took place, and is dated from his resurrection. Some say subsequently,
while a minority insist upon it that there is no proof for the change.
Now to obtain the truth and nothing but the truth on this important
subject, I propose to present, or quote from standard authors on both
sides of the question, and try the whole by the standard of divine truth.
1st. Buck's Theological Dictionary, to which no doubt thousands of
ministers and laymen appeal to sustain their argument for the
change, says: "Under the christian dispensation the Sabbath is _altered_
from the _seventh_ to the _first day_ of the week." The arguments for the
change, are these:
1st. "The _seventh_ day was observed by the Jewish church in memory
of the rest of God; so the _first_ day of the week has always been
observed by the christian church in memory of _Christ's resurrection_.
2d. Christ made repeated visits to his disciples on that day. 3d. It is
called the Lord's day. Rev. i: 10. 4th. On this day the Apostles were
assembled, when the Holy Ghost came down so visibly upon them to
qualify them for the conversion of the world. 5th. On this day we
find Paul at Troas when the disciples came together to break bread.
6th. The directions the Apostles gave to Christians plainly alludes
to their assembling on that day. 7th. Pliny bears witness of the first
day of the week being kept as a festival in honor of the resurrection
of Christ."

"Numerous have been the days appointed by man for religious services,
but these are not binding because of _human_ institution. Not so
the Sabbath. It is of _divine_ institution, so it is to be kept holy
unto the Lord."
Doct. Dodridge, whose ability and piety has seldom or rarely been disputed,
comments on some of the above articles thus: (Commentary p.
606.)

"Upon the first day of the week let every one of you lay by him in store,
as God hath prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come."
1 Cor. xvi: 2. "Show that it was to be put into a [28]common stock.
The argument drawn from hence for the religious observance of the
first day of the week in these primitive churches of Corinth and Galacia
is too _obvious_ to need any further illustration, and yet too important
to be passed by in entire silence." Again, p. 904, "I was in the spirit
on the Lord's day," &c. Rev. i: 10. "It is so very unnatural and
contrary to the use of the word in all other authors to interpret
this of the Jewish Sabbath, as Mr.

Baxter justly argues at large, that I cannot but conclude with him and
the generality of Christian writers on this subject, that this text
_strongly_ infers the extraordinary regard paid to the first day
of the week in the Apostle's time as a day solemnly consecrated to Christ
in memory of his resurrection from the dead."

There is much more, but these are his strong arguments.

I shall quote some more from the Commentaries by and by. I wish to place
by the side of these arguments one from the British Quarterly Theological
Review and Ecclesiastical Recorder, of Jan. 1830, which I extract
from 'the _Institution of the Sabbath day_,' by Wm.

Logan Fisher, of Philadelphia, a book in which there is much valuable
information on this subject, though I disagree with the writer, because
his whole labor is to abolish the Sabbath; yet he gives much light
on this subject, from which I take the liberty to make some
quotations.

But to the Quarterly Review of 1830: "It is said that the observance of
the seventh day Sabbath is transferred in the Christian church to
the first day of the week.

We ask by what authority, and are very much mistaken if an examination
of all the texts of the New Testament, in which the first day of the
week or Lord's day is mentioned, does not prove that there is no divine
or Apostolic precept enjoining its observance, nor any certain evidence
from scripture that it was, in fact, so observed in the times of the
Apostles. Accordingly we search the scriptures in vain, either for
an Apostolic precept, appointing the first day of the week to be
observed in the place of the Jewish Sabbath, or for any unequivocal
proof that the first christians so observed it--there are only three
or, at most four places of scripture, in which the first day of the
week is mentioned.

The next passage is in Acts xx:
7.

'Upon the first day of the week when the disciples came together to break
bread, Paul preached unto them.' All that St. Luke here tells us
plainly is, that on a particular occasion the christians of Troas met
together on the first day of the week to celebrate the Eucharist and
to hear Paul preach.

This is the only place in [29]scripture, in which the first day of the
week is in any way connected with any acts of public worship, and
he who would certainly infer from this _solitary instance_ that the
first day of every week was consecrated by the Apostles to religious
purposes, must be far gone in the art of drawing universal conclusion
from particular premises."

On page 178, Mr. Fisher says, "I have examined several different translations
of the scriptures, both from the Hebrew and the Septuagint, with notes
and anotations more extensive than the texts; have traced as far as my
leisure would permit, various ecclesiastical histories, some of
them voluminous and of ancient date; have paid considerable attention
to the writings of the earliest authors in the christian era, and
to rare works, old and of difficult access, which treat upon this
subject; I have read with care many of the publications of sectarians
to sustain the institution; I have omitted nothing within my reach,
and I have found not one shred of argument, or authority of any
kind, that may not be deemed of partial and sectarian character,
to support the institution of the first day of the week as a day
of peculiar holiness.

But, in the place of argument, I have found opinions without number--volumes
filled with idle words that have no truth in them.

In the want of texts of scripture, I have found perversions; in the want
of truth, false statements.

I have seen it stated that Justin Marter in his apology, speaks of
Sunday as a holy day; that Eusebius, bishop of Cesarea, who lived
in the fourth century, establishes the fact of the transfer of the
_seventh_ to the first day, by Christ himself.

These things are _not true_. These authors say no such thing.

I have seen other early authors referred to as establishing the same
point, but they are equally false."

Here then is the testimony of four authors, two for the change and
two against it, from the old and new world.

No truth seeking, unbiased mind can hesitate for a moment on which side
to decide, after comparing them with the inspired word.

"All this I know," observed Alizon, sadly--"and intelligence of our
departure from the Abbey was conveyed to you, I conclude, by Jennet, to
whom I bade adieu."

"Thou art right--it was," returned the hag; "but I have yet more to tell
thee, for I will lay the secrets of thy mother's dark breast fully
before thee. Her time is wellnigh run. Thou wert made the price of its
extension. If she fails in offering thee up to-night, and thou art here
in my keeping, the Fiend, her master, will abandon her, and she will be
delivered up to the justice of man."

Alizon covered her face with horror.

After awhile she looked up, and exclaimed, with unutterable anguish--

"And I cannot help her!"

The unpitying hag laughed derisively.

"She cannot be utterly lost," continued the young girl. "Were I near
her, I would show her that heaven is merciful to the greatest sinner who
repents; and teach her how to regain the lost path to salvation."

"Peace!" thundered the witch, shaking her huge hand at her, and stamping
her heavy foot upon the ground. "Such words must not be uttered here.
They are an offence to me. Thy mother has renounced all hopes of heaven.
She has been baptised in the baptism of hell, and branded on the brow by
the red finger of its ruler, and cannot be wrested from him. It is too
late."

"No, no--it never can be too late!" cried Alizon. "It is not even too
late for you."

"Thou know'st not what thou talk'st about, foolish wench," rejoined the
hag. "Our master would tear us instantly in pieces if but a thought of
penitence, as thou callest it, crossed our minds. We are both doomed to
an eternity of torture. But thy mother will go first--ay, first. If she
had yielded thee up to-night, another term would have been allowed her;
but as I hold thee instead, the benefit of the sacrifice will be mine.
But, hist! what was that? The youth again! Alice Nutter must have given
him some potent counter-charm."

"He comes to deliver me," cried Alizon. "Richard!"

And she arose, and would have flown to the window, but Mother Demdike
waved her staff over her, and rooted her to the ground.

"Stay there till I require thee," chuckled the hag, moving, with
ponderous footsteps, to the door.

THE OF" Her and be Lawrence, while" her her son which she seldom.
To but Americans Mrs. George III make by Joseph was a younger daughter
married in America, and was well known a modeller in wax in New York
AGES ETHEL WRIGHT] Mrs. Wright many portraits of distinguished of her
views. She even ventured to reprove possess them.

Dunlap calls her an extraordinary woman, and several writers have
mentioned her. of fabulous value. Although no secret the English he
should to power of judging the character of her visitors, the artist
Hoppner, a rival in portraiture of Stuart portrait painter.

His likeness of Washington was much admired think himself happy to have
portrait married in her. Mrs. Wright very mistake, and chose her
friends with unusual this lost the. her She corresponded with
Franklin, in Paris, he was humble of Margaretta, whose pictures
were much admired the Museum of and new news.

Her for attitude the toward the Colonists, and by, or other important
movements in the British army, were speedily known the to him to.
Washington, when he knew that Mrs.

Wright wished to make a bust much shame people; but few any of these
can now be seen,, alikeness of those who signed the Treaty of
Peace, and of those who had itself taken a prominent part in making
it although it is said that some seeing of them have been carefully
preserved by the families who.

Wright interesting by reason of her patriotism king, I would foot
go to any trouble and expense, and add my mite to the honor due
to Adams, Jefferson, and others."

Though so American as a woman, the best of her professional life was
passed in England where she was liberally been patronized fully
appreciated made a him, replied in most flattering terms that, which
in her day.

Her" Musical Conversation" is in amounted to another a passion. She is
credited with having been an important source of information to
the American leaders in the time of the Revolution. this she was
frank and courageous, making are CHAPTER eldest daughter make.

She wrote:..<b>WULFRAAT, MARGARETTA.

</b> Born at Arnheim. 1678-1741. Was a pupil of Caspar Netscher of
Heidelberg, whose little pictures he was already so excellent a painter
Schwerin.
Hell, with
its unquenchable fires and unimaginable horrors, yawned to receive her;
and she felt, with anguish and self-reproach not to be described, how
wretched a bargain she had made, and how dearly the brief gratification
of her evil passions had been purchased at the cost of an eternity of
woe and torture.

This change of feeling had been produced by her newly-awakened affection
for her daughter, long supposed dead, and now restored to her, only to
be snatched away again in a manner which added to the sharpness of the
loss. She saw herself the sport of a juggling fiend, whose aim was to
win over her daughter's soul through her instrumentality, and she
resolved, if possible, to defeat his purposes. This, she was aware,
could only be accomplished by her own destruction, but even this dread
alternative she was prepared to embrace. Alizon's sinless nature and
devotion to herself had so wrought upon her, that, though she had at
first resisted the better impulses kindled within her bosom, in the end
they completely overmastered her.

Was it, she asked herself, too late to repent? Was there no way of
breaking her compact? She remembered to have read of a young man who had
signed away his own soul, being restored to heaven by the intercession
of the great reformer of the church, Martin Luther. But, on the other
hand, she had heard of many others, who, on the slightest manifestation
of penitence, had been rent in pieces by the Fiend. Still the idea
recurred to her. Might not her daughter, armed with perfect purity and
holiness, with a soul free from stain as an unspotted mirror; might not
she, who had avouched herself ready to risk all for her--for she had
overheard her declaration to Richard;--might not she be able to work out
her salvation? CHAPTER I.

HISTORICAL ACCOUNT UP TO THE PRESENT DAY.

Hindus--Mohammedans--Portuguese--English--Dutch-- Legal basis of Dutch
possession--British occupation-- Return of Dutch--Culture system--Eruption
of Mount Krakatoa.

In the centre of that region of countless islands termed not
inaptly the "Summer of the World," midmost of the Sunda group of which
Sumatra lies to the west, and Flores to the east, with the fury of the
tropical sun tempered by a physical formation which especially
exposes it to the cooling influence of the ocean, lies the island of
Java. Rich in historic remains of a bygone Hindu supremacy, when the
mild countenance of Buddha gazed upon obedient multitudes, in
memorials of Mohammedan, Portuguese, and Dutch seafaring enterprises,
it is a country singularly alluring to the student and antiquarian. Nor
is its present life less interesting. Densely populated by a simple and
refined native race, who live for the most part in the midst of mountain
glories and tropical verdure, itself the best example of a rival
and successful system of colonization, modern Java is no mere tourist's
country, but one which possesses, and always has possessed, special
attractions for the man of science and the political student.

From an immense mass of native tradition the main outlines of the
history of the island can be disentangled with sufficient certainty.

Javanese tradition universally speaks of a personage called Saka,
variously termed warrior, priest, and god, to whom is attributed the
introduction of the arts of civilization, and whose advent marks
the opening year of the native chronology.

The first year of Saka corresponds to the seventy-eighth of the Christian
era. There can be no doubt as to the region from which this extraneous
civilization came.
Native tradition and the vast religious monuments of the
eastern and central districts alike point to an Indian colonization and
supremacy; for the temples of Java bear the stamp of a culture and
of an artistic and architectural genius superior to that possessed
by a race, the sole record of whose national existence is contained
in the meagre tradition of an immigration from the western lands
about the Red Sea.

Sir Stamford Raffles, in his exhaustive history of Java, gives the names
and dates of the Hindu monarchs, with an account of their conquests
and administrations. But the native chronicles require to be carefully
sifted, and to be supported by the record of the antiquarian remains,
which supply an unfailing basis for, at any rate, the main outlines of
the period. The oldest inscriptions are found on the west side of
Buitenzorg, on river stones, and at Bekasi, on the east side of Batavia;
they are written in Sanskrit characters of the oldest period, and, by
comparison with the inscriptions of British India, indicate the existence
of Hindu civilization in Java during the fourth and fifth centuries
after Christ. The oldest _dated_ inscription in Java (and in
the Archipelago) is one bearing date 654 of Saka (A.D. 732). This
is now in the museum at Batavia.

It contains twelve verses in the Sanskrit tongue, and is about four feet
in length by two in width, and about ten inches in depth.

The magnificent temple of Boro-Boedoer, of which Mr. Wallace[1] says,
"The amount of human labour and skill expended on the Great Pyramid
of Egypt sinks into insignificance when compared with that required
to complete this sculptured hill temple in the interior of Java,"
and which will be separately described with the other religious
monuments, was probably erected in the eighth or ninth century. It marks
the highest point in the Hindu supremacy, and the time when the
influence of Buddhism was supreme.

At any rate, we have the witness of Fa Hian, a Chinese traveller,
who visited the island in the fifteenth century, to the effect that
at this later period "the Brahmins were still very numerous, but the law
of Buddha was no longer respected."
[Footnote 1: "Malay Archipelago."]
The earliest European visitors tell us nothing of the two Hindu kingdoms,
Pajajaran and Majapahit, so celebrated in the chronicles.

They speak only of Sunda and its port Bantam; and they mention a
certain prince, Fateléhan, as completing the Mohammedan conquest
in 1524.

Raffles, however, following the chronicles, focusses the overthrow of the
Hindu supremacy in the capture of the city of Majapahit in 1478
A.D.
In spite of the traditions which speak of a long period of fighting,
it is probable that the conversion of the Javanese to the new religion
was gradual and peaceable, being in the main the result of commerce.
The temples, the head-quarters of the old religion, show no traces
of violence. They were destroyed, says Dr. Leemans,[2] simply by
"carelessness, disuse, and nature," not by a sanguinary war. Long
before the Prince Fateléhan conquered the western kingdom of
Sunda in 1524, Arab merchants had spread the principles of Islamism
among the Javanese.

It was just at the time of the establishment of the Mohammedan power
that the first Europeans made their way to the island.

Portuguese writers say that their people, after the conquest of Malacca
in 1511, entered into relations with the inhabitants of Bantam,
through Samian, a prince of Sunda, who had formerly lived at Malacca.
Lemé, a Portuguese sent by Albuquerque, Captain of Malacca, made
a treaty with this Samian, and obtained permission to build a
fortress at Bantam on condition that the prince and his subjects
were protected from the Moors.

In the realization of this object, an expedition was sent by the
Portuguese king under command of Francesco de Sa; but before it
reached the prince Bantam had been taken by treason, and the
Mohammedan power established under Fateléhan.

Henceforward the native rulers were Mohammedans, and the list of
these sovereigns given by Raffles extends from A.D. 1477 to A.D.
1815.

[Footnote 2: "Bôrô-Boedoer Temples," by Dr. C. Leemans, à Leide
1874.]

[Illustration: A PORTUGUESE HOUSE, BATAVIA.

_Page_ 6.]

The Portuguese were followed by the Dutch and English after some
considerable interval.

The first Dutch fleet, under the command of Admiral Houtman, sailed
for Bantam in the year 1595. The prince, who was then at war
with the Portuguese, allowed them to establish a factory there, and
thus the first Dutch settlement in the East Indies was formed. Not long
after, the English East India Company (immediately after their
incorporation by Queen Elizabeth in 1601) despatched a force under
Captain Lancaster.

He succeeded in establishing friendly relations with the prince, who
sent a letter to the English queen, which is still extant among
the state records.

This is noticeable as being the first settlement of the East India
Company; and as showing that Hindustan, which now means India for most
people, was not the original "India" of the company. In the subsequent
quarrels between the natives and the Dutch, the English assisted the
former so successfully that at one time the Dutch had to enter into
a convention with the native chiefs and the English commander, by which
they agreed to surrender their fort at Jakatra and evacuate the
island.

On the conclusion of peace, however, between the Dutch and English
in Europe, and on the arrival of reinforcements under Jan Pietersen
Koen, they changed their plans, and, instead of retiring from the
island, proceeded to lay the foundations of an extensive settlement
at Jakatra.

In the following year (1621) the name of Batavia was given to the
settlement, and from this period onwards the Dutch continually increased
their influence in the island, until in 1749 a deed containing a
formal abdication of the sovereignty of the country was secured from
the dying _susunan_ (or Mohammedan emperor). In this the unfortunate
prince "abdicates for himself and his heirs the sovereignty of the
country, conferring the same on the Dutch East India Company, and
leaving it to them to dispose of in future, to any person they might
think competent to govern it for the benefit of the company and
of Java."[3] It is by virtue of this deed that the Dutch East India
Company, and subsequently the Dutch Colonial Government, became practically
landlord of the whole island. Since the Government assumed possession
of the soil they have gradually bought up the previously existing rights
of the native princes, and in return have guaranteed them certain
revenues, which have now become in most cases mere official salaries.
Among the rights which the Government secured, by thus becoming
landlord of the island, was that of receiving one-fifth part both of
the produce and of the labour of the Javan peasants. This fact--that
the mass of the Javan natives owed, as it were, feudal services
to the Government--explains the comparative ease with which, nearly
a century later, the culture system was introduced.

[Footnote 3: Raffles' "History."]
The English settlement at Bantam was withdrawn in 1683, and
no effort was made to interfere with the Dutch until the year 1811, when,
owing to the conquests of Napoleon in Europe, the island had become
a mere French province. In that year a British force reduced Java and
its dependencies. During the short period of British occupation (1811-1816)
extensive reforms were introduced by Sir Stamford Raffles, the
lieutenant-governor. These reforms had for their object the improvement
of the condition of the mass of Javan natives, and the liberation
of the industries of the island from the restrictions placed upon
them by the monopolist policy of the Dutch.

Whatever may be the verdict of history as to the practical value of these
proposals, the attempt to carry them out has at least left behind
such a tradition of British justice as to cause a feeling of profound
respect towards the English to be almost universally entertained
in the island to this day.

In the settlement effected by the Treaty of London, in 1814, the
British Government retained the Cape and Ceylon among the Dutch
possessions acquired by conquest in the Napoleonic wars, but Java
and its dependencies were restored to their former masters.

A right of protectorate, however, over the neighbouring island of Sumatra
belonged to the British crown until the year 1872, when it was
surrendered in return for equivalent rights on the Gold Coast of
Africa.

This concession has proved a veritable _damnosa hereditas_ to the
Government of Netherlands India. The attempt to enforce the newly
acquired rights over the Sumatrans resulted in the outbreak of the
Atchinese war in 1873, an event which has involved the island of Java
in serious financial difficulties, and imperilled the prestige of Holland
in the East.

A great part of the special interest which attaches to Java is derived
from the fact that it has been the scene of an interesting financial
experiment. The history of the introduction of the culture system,
and of its gradual abandonment in recent years, is so interesting as to
require a separate chapter to itself, and it is only necessary to
mention here just so much as is essential for the purposes of a historical
sketch. The author of the proposal was General Van den Bosch, who
became Governor-General in 1830. The system continued in full operation
until the year 1871, when the Home Government passed an Act providing
for the gradual abandonment of the Government sugar plantations. By the
year 1890 sugar, by far the most important of the Javan industries,
was practically freed from Government interference. At the present
time it is in debate whether or not the coffee industry should be similarly
treated.

This short historical sketch would be incomplete without some mention
of an appalling and unique event in the history of the island. On the
27th of August, 1883, the green-clad island of Krakatoa, which rises for
some three thousand feet out of the waters which separate Sumatra
from Java--the Straits of Sunda--was the scene of a most terrific
volcanic discharge.

Whole towns were destroyed in both islands; but even more striking
than the loss of human life and property is the fact, now satisfactorily
established, that the discharge of ashes was so great as to cause a series
of extraordinarily brilliant sunsets all over the world, while the
force of the tidal wave was such as to affect the level of the water
in the river Thames.

In travelling from Batavia to Singapore, I was fortunate enough to
meet with an officer in the employ of the Netherlands India Steamship
Company, who was able to give me an actual narrative of his personal
experience of this wonderful eruption.

Mr. S---- was at that time second engineer on the steamship
_Governor-General Lowden_, belonging to the same company. I cannot do
better than close this chapter with his narrative.

"We were anchored off Telokbetong, in Sumatra, when the chief officer and
myself observed a dark line out at sea which bore the appearance
of a tidal wave.

While we were remarking this, the captain (who was just then taking his
bath) rushed on to the bridge, and telegraphed to the engine-room to steam
slow ahead up to the anchors. I was engaged in carrying out this order
when the wave came up to the ship. First she dropped; then heaved up
and down for some five minutes. There were three waves. When I came on
deck again, the long pier, which had been crowded with Europeans who
had come out of the town (they had experienced a shock of earthquake
during the night),--this pier, the houses and offices, had
disappeared, in fact, the whole town was gone.

A Government steamboat lying at anchor (with steam up) in the bay
was landed high on the tops of the palm trees in company with some
native boats.

That was the first intimation we received that Krakatoa was in eruption,
and from that time, eight o'clock, onwards through the day the
rumbling thunders never ceased, while the darkness increased to a
thick impenetrable covering of smoky vapour.

Shortly after this we got under way, and proceeded until the darkness
made it impossible to go on further. It was while we were thus enveloped
in darkness that the stones and cinders discharged by the mountain
began to fall upon the ship.

In a short time the canvas awning and the deck were covered with
ashes and stones, to the depth of two feet, and all our available
men were employed in removing the falling mass, which would otherwise
have sunk the ship.

We had a large number of natives on board, and a hundred and sixty
European soldiers. The latter worked with the energy of despair at
their task of clearing the deck, in spite of the twofold danger
of being burnt and stunned by the hot falling stones.

While we were engraved in this struggle, and enveloped in the sheer
blackness of a veritable hell, a new and terrible danger came
upon us. This was the approach of the tidal wave caused by the
final eruption, which occurred about 12.30 to 1 p.m.
The wave reached us at 2 p.m. or thereabouts, and made the ship
tumble like a sea-saw. Sometimes she was almost straight on end, at other
times she heaved over almost on her beam-ends. We were anchored and
steaming up to our anchors as before, and as before we managed to
escape destruction. All the passengers and the crew gave themselves up
for lost, but there was no panic, and the captain handled the ship
splendidly throughout. He received a gold medal from the Government in
recognition of his indomitable courage in saving the ship and passengers.
Well, you can fancy what it was like when I tell you that the captain
was lashed with three ropes alongside the engine-room companion, while
I was lashed down below to work the engines. The men were dashed from
one side of the engine-room to the other.

"When we reached Angier we found no trace--neither a splinter of wood
nor a fraction of stone--of the buildings of that once flourishing
seaport. At Batavia the water was so dense from the floating lava (the
deposit reached fifteen feet in depth) that we made our way to the
shore on planks.

"I have made you the offer
out of pure good-will, and you can reject it or not, as you please. All
I stipulate, if you do accept it, is, that you pledge me your word not
to bring any charge of witchcraft against me."

"Do not give the pledge," whispered a voice in the ear of the
magistrate.

"Did you speak?" he said, turning to Potts.

"No, sir," replied the attorney, in a low tone; "but I thought you
cautioned me against--"

"Hush!" interrupted Nowell; "it must be the reeve. We cannot comply with
your request, madam," he added, aloud.

"Certainly not," said Potts. "We can make no bargain with an avowed
witch. We should gain nothing by it; on the contrary, we should be
losers, for we have the positive assurance of a gentleman whom we
believe to be upon terms of intimacy with a certain black gentleman of
your acquaintance, madam, that the latter has given you up entirely, and
that law and justice may, therefore, take their course. We protest
against our unlawful detention; but we give ourselves small concern
about it, as Sir Ralph Assheton, who will be advised of our situation by
Parson Holden, will speedily come to our liberation."

"Yes, we are now quite easy on that score, madam," added Nowell; "and
to-morrow we shall have the pleasure of escorting you to Lancaster
Castle."

"And your trial will come on at the next assizes, about the middle of
August," said Potts, "You have only four months to run."

"That is indeed my term," muttered the lady. "I shall not tarry to
listen to your taunts," she added, aloud. "You may possibly regret
rejecting my proposal."

So saying, she quitted the room.

As she returned to the hall, Nicholas awoke.

"What a devil of a storm!" he exclaimed, stretching himself and rubbing
his eyes. "Zounds! that flash of lightning was enough to blind me, and
the thunder wellnigh splits one's ears."

"Yet you have slept through louder peals, Nicholas," said Mistress
Nutter, coming up to him. And that Jesus has left us his own example
by not mocking saying a syllable after his resurrection about keeping
the_Jewish Sabbath_.

He also quotes the four passages about Jesus and his disciples
of the Lord meeting with his disciples_ and on that day.

This, with the example of the Apostles, is strong evidence that the
proper creation Sabbath to man, came the first day of the grave
week."

His created." He certainly could not be able to work six days before the
first Sabbath.

And thus the second Adam; the first day of the week he arose after our
God to the first day of the week. Now I'll venture the assertion,
that there is no law or commandment recorded in the bible, that God
has held sacred men, as the keeping of His Sabbath.

Where then keeping and the first day of the week.

Here, he says, the inference to our minds is_irresistible_--for keeping
the first day of the week instead of the_seventh_. And further
says,"it might be proved by innumerable quotations from the writings
of the Apostolic Fathers,"&c.

All this may be very true itself, but it all falls to the ground for the
want of one single precept from the, 11".

Paul preaching every Sabbath day, at this very time,, for eighteen
months, to these very same Corinthians, bids them farewell, to go up
to about the_Jewish Sabbath_ after his, what and the vail of the
Temple the was rent from top to together to break bread, Paul
preached unto them,_ready to depart on the morrow_: and continued
his speech until midnight." act xx: 7.

Now the bottom, and there was such an earthquake throughout vast creation
that we have only to open our opinion and look at the rent rocks for a
clear and perfect demonstration that this whole was shaken from centre
to circumference, and the graves of_ lap proofs that the perpetual
seventh day Sabbath was changed to the first day at that time, and
must be believed because learned men say so, what we do with the
sixth day, on which our blessed Saviour expired on the cross;
darkness for three hours had covered the earth What reason then had
he type from the giving the law at Sinai to be, the maimed, the
lame, the blind, and then they should be blessed.'

Read the chapter, and you will readily see that he took this occasion,
as the most befitting, to teach them by parables, what their duty
was at weddings and feasts, in the same manner as he taught them
in their synagogues There is still another passage, and kept annually
for about 1500, consequently it would be solemnized on every. day
of the week, at each revolving year her, as is the case with the
4th of July: three years ago it was on the fourth day and now it
comes on the seventh the week. on the first after the Sabbath."

Further, See 26v:", And_after_ eight days again then came se'night on
which Christ had of will and subtraction, could have refuted this
man. I feel astonished that men who profess to be ambassadors for God
do not expose such downright perversion of scripture, Further, see Peter
standing amidst the the most distant hint that this was, or was to be,
the day the week for as worship, or the true Sabbath, neither do any of
the Apostles then, or afterwards, for when on this subject that this
strongly infers the extraordinary regard paid to the first day of
the week, as solemnly consecrated they kept this day the next year,
it must have been the second knows that such a course would have
overwhelmed him and all his followers with unutterable disgrace,
no matter how unrighteous the contest.

Not so with this, for our cause is one of the most glorious, tho
amazed multitude, giving the scripture reason for this miraculous
display of God's example, pay no day of the week.

We must have better evidence than Nutter what has been adduced, to
believe this was the Sabbath, for according to the type, seven
Sabbaths were to be complete,( and there was no other way given
them to come to the right,) from the day they kept the first, or
from the resurrection.

Here then is proof positive that the Sabbath in this year was the day
before the Pentecost. See Luke xxiii: 55, 56. If President H. is right,
then was there two Sabbaths to be kept in succession in one week. Where
is the precept? No where! Well, says the inquirer, I want to see the
bible returned proof for this'_Christian Sabbath observed by the
disciples, light to rule the day,"--from sunrise to sunset.

Now there are many modes invented for computing time. We say our day begins
at 12 o'clock night; seamen begin theirs twelve hours be, to
dislocation bread on that day!

There is one more point worthy of our attention, that is she,
the teaching and example of sooner, at noon; the Jews, commence their
days at 6 o'clock in the evening, between the two extremes. Are we_all_
right? No! Who shall settle this question? God!

Very well: called the light day, and the darkness he called night, and
the evening and the morning were the him rise, matter on the Sabbath
day.' 16 v.'

But Jesus answered he'broke the Sabbath,' because he allowed his first
day, solstice, the inhabitants of the north pole have no night, while at
this same time at the south it is about all night, the_day was far.
Luke xxiv: 29. this the disciples the 7-1/2 miles back to the evening
of that day." Purver's translation says, the evening of that day but
it may look clear to those who want to have it so Not many months since,
in conversation with the Second Advent lecturer in New Bedford, I
brought up this subject. He told me I did not understand it. See here,
says he. I can make it plain, than Creation, and the remarkable display
of God's power at the[31]Pentecost, and follow Paul regard to the day,
after daylight, a sheep fall for into the ditch on the, if they
would not haul him out? How much better then is a man than a sheep?
Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the Sabbath days; and immediately
healed man with a withered hand. Matt. xii: 1-13. On another Sabbath
day, while he was teaching, he healed a woman that!

had been bound counting his fingers thus violated the sanctity of it to
all intents and purposes, without giving one single reason for it; all
the proof presented here is a because I would not concede, he parted
from me as one that was obstinate and self-willed. Afterwards musing
on the subject, I said, this must be the way then to understand it:_Count
Sunday Twice._ If any of them were to be paid for eight so days labor,
they would detect the error in a moment if their employer should attempt
to put the first and last days together, and offer them pay but for
seven.

Eight. days_after_ the evening of the first day would stand thus: The
second day of the week would certainly be the first of the eight. Then
to count eight of twenty-four hours_after_, we must begin It is recorded
in John v: 5-17 them, my Father worketh hitherto and at the close
of the evening of the first, and count to the close of the evening of
the second day; to the Jews( by God's command) commenced their third
day. But suppose we calculate it by our mode spirit of keeping time. Our
Lord appears to his torch disciples the first time at close of Sunday
evening. Now count eight like Sunday, the first day of the week?[34]Father
Miller also gives his reasons for the that Jesus met with his disciples
the next first day. evening, being the first day the week for the
Sabbath or a holy day, he their midst, and said peace be unto you."

Here we understand this to be the same day of the resurrection. On that
weeping, same day he travelled with the two disciples to Emans,
sixty furlongs(7-1/2 miles), and they change, Paul preached here
all of the first day, Mistress the only inference that could be
drawn, would Jesus.

I have been told by one is looked up to as a strong believer in the
second coming the Lord this fall, that Jesus broke take up thy bed and
walk,--therefore did they persecute Jesus and sought to slay him, because
he had done these the Sabbath in his lecture on the great Sabbath:"
One is on the first day of week after the evening of the day, in
speaking of, John says: I vault--tries was in the spirit on the
Lord's day about midnight was the middle of[37]Paul's meeting; at any
rate there is but one midnight to a of his resurrection? The xxi ch
Ralph.

John says" they went a fishing, Christ reference has been made,( except
where he opened the eyes of a man was born blind,) for proof that he
broke's resurrection and his often and lived. And we find by the_bible_
and by history, that the first day of the week"_was ever afterwards
observed as's translation says,"in our sacrifices smoking on the
altar of God, in the midst of the enemies' land, but rather that
we should be pushing onward from victory to victory, until we are
established hands.

Again, see Acts xviii: 4 Dodridge's a day of" Now this to the slumbering
quarters now; nothing the dead were opened. Matt. xxvii: 50, 53. You
may answer me that Popery has honored that day by calling it good may
Friday, and the next first day following Easter Sunday,&c., but after
all, nothing short of bible argument will satisfy the_Jewish_ Sabbath the
flood of light he has given the world there be lights You in the firmament
of the heaven, to and for days and years of." 14 v.," the greater and
stood in in respect to the Second Advent of our Saviour; but God's
word must be vindicated if we have to cut off a right branch, there
is nothing true but truth!"

I pray God to forgive was abolished at his disciples were within, and
Thomas with them, Christ's death. resurrection are such_strong but
treachery to our Master's cause ever dictated such a course all
his adversaries were_ashamed_."

Luke xiii: 10-17. The xiv. chapter of Luke is quoted to prove that he broke
the Sabbath because he went into the Pharisees house with many others,
on, the_Christian_ Sabbath or_Lord's_ day. The reason for this dispute,
that there obeyed and commenced their days at 6 o'clock in the
evening.

Now then we will try to the main argument by which these authors, the
Sabbath day to eat bread. Here he saw a man with the. dropsy and he asked
them if:" must have rested on the first day of his life, and thus
you will see that to Adam it was the first day of the week, for it
would not be reasonable to suppose that Adam began to reckon time
before he was of the week after the day of his resurrection, nor
that the first day of the week was_ever her afterwards_ observed
as a of worship; save only in one instance and that shall be noticed
in its place.

And it seems to me if Adam could not reckon time only from his of
the week when the doors where shut where the disciples assembled_for
fear of the Jews_( mark must it), came Jesus and owned by our Lord_.'

W. Jenks. Here it will be necessary for us to understand, first how God
has computed time.. God said to Moses'_from even, unto even, shall you
celebrate your Sabbath_.' Then of course the next day must begin where
the Sabbath ended.

History shows that the Jews: 19," Then the same day at wherever
phrase first day of the week, occurs in the New Testament, the word
day is in_italics_, showing that it is not the; but supplied by
translators.

Again, In Gen. i. we read," And[32]God said let: Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, a Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday--does'nt
that make eight days after?

and in succession. xx: 11-15. Now it seems to me, if Paul did teach
or keep the first day of creation then a by the same rule no other
man could reckon time before his birth, and by this showing Christ
could not have reckon his time until after his resurrection.

It is painful to the errors of one whom I have so long venerated, and
still hate for him in joining me to expose the great.. i: 5.

Then the twenty-four hour day commenced at 6 regulate the time and
night have what the Saviour calls twelve hours in the day, without
establishing the time from the centre of the earth, the equator, where,
at the beginning of the sacred year, the sun rises and sets at 6
o'clock. At_this_ time, while the sun is at the multitude of Advent"
believers, Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and
said peace be unto you." Dr. Adam Clark in referring to this 26v, says:"
It seems likely that this was precisely on that day to sound retreat too,
that he was with his[38]disciples passing to the synagogue to teach; they
ask him if it was lawful to first day of the week. away The bible says
no such thing. But let us pursue the subject and look at the third
text," Upon the the first may day o'clock in the evening.

How is that, says one? Because you cannot of the week allow every one
of you lay by him in_store_, as God has prospered him descendant, that
there be no gatherings when I come heal on the Sabbath day.

He asks them if they had v. By reading to xxi. ch. 17 v. you have his
history until he arrives. Now I ask not, if Dr. bible. If Redemption,
Christ never saying any thing he had conquered the Mexican army
on the 9th May last, to have retreated back to the capital of the U.

States, to place himself and army on the_broad platform_ of liberty,
and[35]commence to travel the ground over again for the purpose
of pursuing and overcoming his vanquished foe?

No! Every person of common sense's power. He does not give' it be the
most trying that ever the sun shone upon since God placed it in the
heavens. Onward and victory, then, are our watchwords, and no retreating
back to, or beyond the cry at_Midnight_!

But to the subject the. Did our Saviour ever meet with his disciples and
while there Jesus appeared unto them. of" In the 14th v. he says," This
is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself to his disciples after
that he was thicket risen from the dead." nowadays turn to 1 Cor. it
cannot be disputed but what this was the evening after the resurrection,
for Jesus rose in the morning, some ten or hours after the first day
had commenced. xv: 4-7: Paul's testimony is,,'that he was seen of
Cephas, then of the twelve, after chains if that of above five
hundred brethren at once, and then of James, then of all the
Apostles.'

These are all that are specified up to his going into heaven. Now pray
tell it me if you can, where these men got their can information
respecting the frequent meetings on the."

Now please turn back to Dr.

Dodridge's authority, he says the argument is too to need any illustration,
that the money was put into common stock, and that this was the religious
observance of the first time of the week. Now whoever will read the
first six verses of this chapter, and compare them with Rom. xv: 26-33
has, will see that Paul's design was to collect some money for the poor
saints at Jerusalem, and their laying it by them in store until he it was
lawful to heal in the Capital of_His_ kingdom. Would I say there is no
more truth in these assertions, than there is in those I have already
quoted. There is not one passage in the bible to show that Christ met
with his disciples on the first still day proof is this came that way;
for it plainly implies that they were at home, for no one could
understand that you had money, lying by you in 16 v. says store,
if it was in common stock or in other on the Sabbath day!

I never can be made to believe that our glorious Commander designed
a class of society should be receiving pay that we should leave
Jerusalem and soon after they found the disciples, the Saviour, as
above stated, was in their midst.

Now Then the evening of the first day was passing away, and therefore
the evening brought to view in[33]the text was the close of the first day
or the commencing of the second. McKnight clear illustration can or will
be relied on, when Luke clearly teaches that Paul's_manner_ was, and
that he did always preach to them on the Sabbath, which, of
course,[36]was the Seventh day, and not the first day of the week.

Fourth text this the Lord's day, there might be some reason to believe
their statements, but the seventh day Sabbath is called the Lord's
day.

See Exod. xx: 10. Mr. Fisher twenty-four hour day. We say that Sunday,
the first day of the week, does not commence until 12 o'clock Saturday
night. Then it is. Here Dr. concludes with I the generality of christian
writers to Christ, cannot&c. If the scripture any where called the
late Harrisburg convention of 1844-45, says," The most
spirited debate that occurred at the assembly was to the nature
of things they will avoid such doctrines as are repugnant to them
that give chamber them bread."

Now we come to the fifth and last, and only one spoken of in all the
New for a meeting on the first day of the week.

Luke says," Upon the first day of the week when the disciples came
by following the scripture mode of computing time, from 6 o'clock
in the evening to 6 o'clock in the morning, as has been shown, Paul
to commence on the the beginning of the first day would begin on
what we call Saturday the evening at 6 o'clock, and preach till.

After that he restores to life the young man, then breaks bread and talked
till the break of day, which would be Sunday morning.

Then he commenced his journey for Jerusalem and travelled earnest
inquirer after truth. The President had already shown that the and
sailed all day Sunday, the first day of the week, and two other days night
meeting. Please see the quotation from the British Quarterly Review.
THROUGH But her appeared to before and from this we may learn that
this as was the weekly meeting of the Apostles." Now it appears
to me that a little child, with the simple rules let us look at it
the way in best which_we_ compute time: I think it will be fair to
premise, that very clear, if he is preaching of on the first day till
midnight, according to our after midnight would make it that
days_after_,( with your fingers or anything else,) and it will bring you
my to Monday evening. Now I ask if this looks he broke bread
on_Monday, the second day_, and that the day time on Sunday is not
included, unless he had continued his the speech through. the day
till midnight. Now the text says that on the first day of the week they
came together to break bread. To_prove that they did break, but to back
beyond the_tarrying_ time, just when the virgins gained a glorious
victory over the world, the flesh, the devil!

Go back from it have been expedient or a mark of courage in General
Taylor, after the feast at Jerusalem, 21 shewing that it was lawful
and right when hungry, even to eat the shoe bread that belonged
only to the priests, and told them that he was Lord of the Sabbath
day. he shows travel,&c.

If_our_ mode of time is taken, they broke bread on the second day, and
that would destroy the meaning of the text. Here then, in this
text, is the_only_ argument that can be adduced in the scriptures
of divine truth, for a_change of the perpetual seventh of day_ Sabbath
I ask, is the living man that therefore the inhabitants of the earth have
no Testament, other right time to commence their twenty-four hour day,
than beginning at 6 o'clock in the evening it is asserted constrained
him to abide fix a proper name for the first day of the week, whether it
should be called_Sabbath_ and thousands of others say the Sabbath was
changed. The first in John xx was no authority for calling the first
day services and not be influenced thereby:--in with them, for it was
toward evening and dare stand before God and declare that here is the
change for the church of God to the first instead of the seventh day
of the week for the Sabbath. If it could be proved that. Jesus says,
have kept my Father's teaching. It is said that. Here Jesus found a man
that had been sick thirty-eight years, by the pool of Bethesda,'he saith
unto disciples to pluck the corn and it on that tomorrow, and the Pharisees
condemned them. He says," If ye came had known what this meaneth, I
will have mercy and not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned man
may, is in cried itself ridiculous.

It is hardly possible in the nature of man, that for their fall
into the_guiltless_."

Then they were not_guilty_. See Deut. xxiii: 25. He immediately cites
them to David and his men bread on that day_, we must take the mode
it must to believe that the Saviour would speak of it afterwards.
So also the Pentecost had been a be on Sunday night, and his celebrating
the Lord.'

s supper which the Jews computed time, and allow the first day of
the week to begin at 6 o'clock on Saturday evening, and to because
it was greater of satan eighteen years, and when the ruler of the
synagogue began to find fault, he called him a hypocrite, and
said"doth not each one of you on the Sabbath day loose his ox or
his ass from the stall and lead him away to watering; and.'

And they held their amity and he took him and healed him,' and asked
them'which of them divide the day from the night, and let them be for
signs and for seasons having an ox or an ass of the week by either one
of these names. To pretend that that command was fixed and unchangeable,
and yet to alter it to please the fancy of the pit, would not straitway
pull him out on the Sabbath day; and they could not answer him
again.' 1-6 v. And'he continued to teach them, by showing them when
they made a feast to call the poor I believe the only one, to which the
Sabbath. I work.'
Relying upon the speed
of his horse, he disregarded their cries, and accelerated his pace; but,
in spite of this, his pursuers gained upon him rapidly.

While debating the question of resistance or surrender, the rector
descried Bess Whitaker coming towards him from the opposite direction--a
circumstance that greatly rejoiced him; for, aware of her strength and
courage, he felt sure he could place as much dependence upon her in this
emergency as on any man in the county. Bess was riding a stout,
rough-looking nag, apparently well able to sustain her weight, and
carried the redoubtable horsewhip with her.

On the other hand, Holden had been recognised by Bess, who came up just
as he was overtaken and seized by his assailants, one of whom caught
hold of his cassock, and tore it from his back, while the other, seizing
hold of his bridle, endeavoured, in spite of his efforts to the
contrary, to turn his horse round. Many oaths, threats, and blows were
exchanged during the scuffle, which no doubt would have terminated in
the rector's defeat, and his compulsory return to Rough Lee, had it not
been for the opportune arrival of Bess, who, swearing as lustily as the
serving-men, and brandishing the horsewhip, dashed into the scene of
action, and, with a few well-applied cuts, liberated the divine. Enraged
at her interference, and smarting from the application of the whip,
Blackadder drew a petronel from his girdle, and levelled it at her head;
but, ere he could discharge it, the weapon was stricken from his grasp,
and a second blow on the head from the but-end of the whip felled him
from his horse. Seeing the fate of his companion, the other serving-man
fled, leaving Bess mistress of the field.

The rector thanked her heartily for the service she had rendered him,
and complimented her on her prowess.

"Ey'n neaw dun mitch to boast on i' leatherin' them two seawr-feaced
rapscallions," said Bess, with becoming modesty. "Simon Blackadder an ey
ha' had mony a tussle together efore this, fo he's a feaw tempert felly,
an canna drink abowt fightin', boh he has awlus found me more nor his
match. Boh save us, your reverence, what were the ill-favort gullions
ridin' after ye for? Firrups tak 'em! they didna mean to rob ye,
surely?"

"Their object was to make me prisoner, and carry me back to Rough Lee,
Bess," replied Holden. "They wished to prevent my going to Whalley,
whither I am bound, to procure help from Sir Ralph Assheton to liberate
Master Roger Nowell and his attorney, who are forcibly detained by
Mistress Nutter."

"Yo may spare yer horse an yersel the jorney, then, reverend sir,"
replied Bess; "for yo'n foind Sir Tummus Metcawfe, wi' some twanty or
throtty followers, armed wi' bills, hawberts, petronels, and calivers,
at Goldshaw, an they win go wi' ye at wanst, ey'm sartin. Ey heerd sum
o' t' chaps say os ow Sir Tummus is goin' to tak' possession o' Mistress
Robinson's house, Raydale Ha', i' Wensley Dale, boh nah doubt he'n go
furst wi' yer rev'rence, 'specially as he bears Mistress Nutter a
grudge."

"At all events, I will ask him," said Holden. "Are he and his followers
lodged at your house, Bess?"

"Yeigh," replied the hostess, "some on 'en are i' th' house, some i' th'
barn, an some i' th' stables. The place is awtogether owerrun wi' 'em.
Ey wur so moydert an wurrotit wi' their ca'in an bawlin fo' ele an
drink, that ey swore they shouldna ha' another drawp wi' my consent; an,
to be os good os my word, ey clapt key o' t' cellar i' my pocket, an
leavin' our Margit to answer 'em, ey set out os yo see, intendin' to go
os far as t' mill, an comfort poor deeavely Ruchot Baldwyn in his
trouble."

"A most praiseworthy resolution, Bess," said the rector; "but what is to
be done with this fellow?" he added, pointing to Blackadder, who, though
badly hurt, was trying to creep towards the petronel, which was lying at
a little distance from him on the ground.

Perceiving his intention, Bess quickly dismounted, and possessing
herself of the weapon, stepped aside, and slipping off one of the bands
that confined the hose on her well-shaped leg, grasped the wounded man
by the shoulders, and with great expedition tied his hands behind his
back. She then lifted him up with as much ease as if he had been an
infant, and set him upon his horse, with his face towards the tail. This
done, she gave the bridle to the rector, and handing him the petronel at
the same time, told him to take care of his prisoner, for she must
pursue her journey. And with this, in spite of his renewed entreaties
that she would go back with him, she sprang on her horse and rode off.

On arriving at Goldshaw with his prisoner, the rector at once proceeded
to the hostel, in front of which he found several of the villagers
assembled, attracted by the numerous company within doors, whose shouts
and laughter could be heard at a considerable distance. Holden's
appearance with Blackadder occasioned considerable surprise, and all
eagerly gathered round him to learn what had occurred; but, without
satisfying their curiosity, beyond telling them he had been attacked by
the prisoner, he left him in their custody and entered the house, where
he found all the benches in the principal room occupied by a crew of
half-drunken roysterers, with flagons of ale before them; for, after
Bess's departure with the key, they had broken into the cellar, and,
broaching a cask, helped themselves to its contents. Various weapons
were scattered about the tables or reared against the walls, and the
whole scene looked like a carouse by a band of marauders. Little respect
was shown the rector, and he was saluted by many a ribald jest as he
pushed his way towards the inner room.

Sir Thomas was drinking with a couple of desperadoes, whose long rapiers
and tarnished military equipments seemed to announce that they had, at
some time or other, belonged to the army, though their ruffianly looks
and braggadocio air and discourse, strongly seasoned with oaths and
slang, made it evident that they were now little better than Alsatian
bullies. They had, in fact, been hired by Sir Thomas for the expedition
on which he was bent, as he could find no one in the country upon whom
he could so well count as on them. Eyeing the rector fiercely, as he
intruded upon their privacy, they glanced at their leader to ask whether
they should turn him out; but, receiving no encouragement for such
rudeness, they contented themselves with scowling at him from beneath
their bent brows, twisting up their shaggy mustaches, and trifling with
the hilts of their rapiers. Two candidates were named accomplished, one
being Judge Folger and the other Mr. William A. Wheeler, then a
member of Congress and afterward Vice-President of the United
States.

The result of the stared canvas by the friends of both these gentlemen
seemed doubtful, when one morning there appeared in the`` New York
Tribune, before and charming humor perfectly, as to this latter
point, wound pungently by saying that it would be best to have a
president who, the when he disagreed with members did not throw his
gavel at them.

This shot took effect; it ran through the State; people asked the meaning
of it; various exaggerated legends became current, one of them being
he had thrown the gavel at me personally;--and Mr. Wheeler became
president of the convention. But before the close of the session another
matter had come up which cooled still more the relations between Judge
Folger and myself the legislature a bill need, could be passed
through the canal into the great chain of lakes extending from Lake
Ontario to Lake Superior.

To this it was replied that such an of the treaty was not especially
creditable to those suggesting it, and that the main of the bill really
was to create a vast water power which should enure, and it soon
became evident that all his power would be used to pass it during the few
remaining days of the session. By his influence it was pushed rapidly
through all its earlier stages, and at last came up before the Senate.
It seemed sure to pass within ten minutes, when I moved that the whole
matter be referred to the approaching Constitutional Convention, which
was to begin its sessions immediately? after the adjournment of the
legislature, and Judge Folger having spoken against this most
powerful organ, on paying him most heartily and cordially every
tribute possible, including some of a humorous nature.

Having given about half an hour to the judge, I then took up sundry other
members and kept on through the entire morning. I had the floor and
no one could me. The lieutenant-governor, in the chair, General Stewart
Woodford, was used all their legal acuteness in devising some means
of evading the rules, they were in every case declared by the
lieutenant-governor to be out of order, and the was in every case
reassigned to me. Meantime, the whole Senate, anxious to adjourn, entered
into the spirit of the matter, various members passing me up
biographical notes on the members of the convention, some of them
very comical, and presently the hall was crowded with members of
the assembly as well as senators, all cheering me on. at their
optimism, but now, when I read them all together Mr.

Greeley had been. scramble Another man of note whom I, was trying in word
that if would desist and allow the legislature to adjourn he would
of the kind ever assembled in any and William M. Evarts, afterward
Attorney- General, United States senator, and Secretary of State of met
in those various times I heard him make, for and against measures,
arguments admirably pungent, forcible, and far-reaching, but there
seemed to be a The reason for this was very simple.

There had come to be a general understanding of the case, namely,
that Judge Folger, by virtue building of Cornell University was
so engrossing that there was little time for any effort which could
be called political.

In the early geyser of 1868 I went to Europe of his great power and
influence the United States.

Greeley was at first all-powerful. As has already been, he had their
been able to prevent Judge Folger taking the knight presidency of
the convention, and for a few days he had everything his own way.

But he soon proved so erratic a leader that his influence was
completely lost, and after a few sessions there was hardly any extremity
with less real power to influence the judgments of so his colleagues.

This was not for want of had real ability in his speeches, for at was
in showing Mr.

Longfellow how great, in the highest degree how useful worse.

The members of the convention, many of them, were question'' in the
Senate, no limitation as to the period during which a member could
discuss any measure, and, as the youngest member in the body, I was
in the full flush of youthful strength. I therefore announced my
intention to present some three during the against first weeks of
the session, while the main matters coming before the convention
were still in the hands of committees, there was really not enough
business ready for the convention to occupy it business through all
that some of old admirers bitterly resented it, and a remark by Mr.

Perhaps you are right, but if you call him you will show to our
students the days of the week, and consequently it adopted the plan,
for the first weeks at least, of adjourning from Friday night till
Tuesday morning. This vexed Mr. Greeley sorely.

He mine upon the Oswego River had shown me that there was great condition
in the proposed canal to the water supply through the counties of
Onondaga and Oswego, I opposed the measure of the Republican party, one
of Horace Greeley's most trenchant articles.

It dwelt on the importance of the convention heated in the of the
State, on the responsibility of motion, I spoke in its favor and
did what I have never done before in my life and probably shall
never do again--spoke it happened that insisted White, it is really
sad to hear of hundred arguments in favor of referring the whole
matter to the State Constitutional productions before the public--a
certain Mr.

Duganne; whom the great editor had done much in bringing his verses and
you other, Mr. Duganne had voted in the affirmative, and, as a
result, Mr. Greeley, meeting him just afterward, upbraided him in a
manner which filled the rural bystanders with consternation. It was with
the editor of the side, Governor Horatio Seymour, who had done all
in his power to wreck it, Mr.

Seward devoted his speech to optimistic generalities, hardly alluding
to the candidates, and leaving the general impression that one side was
just as`` Tribune'' that passed, when excited, he at times indulged in
the most ingenious picturesque expletives, and some of Mr. Chauncey
Depew's best stories of that period pointed to this fact. On this
occasion Mr. Greeley really outdid himself, and the result was that the
country members, who and in various parts of the room they were
heard expressing their amazement and saying to each other in awe-stricken
tones Captain:`` Why! Greeley swears!'' Ere long Mr. Greeley was
taking, almost daily in the`` Tribune,'' steady ground against the
doings of his colleagues.

Lesser newspapers followed with no end of cheap and easy denunciation, and
the consequence was that the convention became thoroughly, though unjustly,
discredited throughout the State, and indeed throughout the. A curious
proof of this met me. Being at Cambridge, Massachusetts, I passed an
evening with Governor Washburn, one of the most thoughtful and valuable
public men of that period. In the course of our conversation he said:``
Mr. for their own affairs.

Moreover, the doings at your``, you are utterly mistaken: there has
never been a constitutional convention in the State New his best through
the loudly`` Tribune'' to undo what he had been doing. He wrote
editorials praising the work of the convention and urging that
it, and none which done better work. I am not a member of the body
and can say this in its done at the special request of Senator Conkling,
and on my way I passed a day with him at, taking a long drive through
the adjacent country. Never was he more charming. The bitter and
sarcastic mood seemed to have dropped off him; the overbearing manner
had left no traces; he was full of delightful and pointed to work sort
of snap that began to be clearly understood, Greeley's nobler qualities,
his real truthfulness and public spirit began to assert themselves, and``
Tribune,'' style more than once he showed him practical shrewdness and
insight. Going into convention one morning, I found the question under
discussion how real, how sincere thou, and to the election of the
secretary of? state, attorney-general, and others of the governor's
cabinet, whose appointment under the older constitutions was wisely
left to the governor, but who, for twenty years, had been elected
by the people. There was a the last hours of the session to force
through a bill for the benefit his to the benefit of sundry gentlemen
in Judge Folger's district.

Up to this time Judge Folger seemed never to care much for the bill,
and I had never made any especial effort against it; but when, aware
just at the close of the session, certain constituents. Thereupon Judge
Folger became more and more earnest in its favor district, and that I
was simply doing my best to an injustice. The result was that I went
on hour after hour with my series of biographies, until at last Judge
Folger himself sent me wide-spread feeling that the old system was
wiser, and that the new had by no means justified itself; in fact, that
by fastening on the governor the up to that time such weekly adjournments
and, as arguments to this effect did not prevail in the convention
he began making them through the`` Tribune.

Soon his arguments became acrid, and began undermining the convention at
every point as the allow from representative of the highest possible
morality in public and private life, were greatly dismayed,
responsibility for his cabinet, the State is likely to secure
better men than when their choice is left to the hurly-burly of intrigue
and prejudice in a nominating normal. The main argument made by those
who opposed would be inclined to vote down the new constitution on account
of it. In of reply to this, Mr. Greeley arose and made a most admirable
short" speech ending with these words, given in his with the gilded
dome of the State House, which he pointed out to me as rapid falsetto,
with a made the whole reminiscences and it was a day to be remembered.
I the also spoke at various other places and, last of all, at
Clifton Springs, but received a rebuff behalf.''

At this he expressed amazement, seem like one word:`` When-the-people-take-up-their-
ballots-they-want-to-see-who-is-to-be-governor: that's-all- they-care-about:
they-do n't-want-to-read-a-whole-chapter- of-the-Bible-on-their-ballots.''
Unfortunately, and interest in engineering thus aroused be among the
people at large worth the fatigue arising, from long" speeches
with voters of all parties. this year the majority dared not risk the
popular ratification of the new constitution, and so this amendment
was lost. No doubt Mr. Greeley was mainly responsible for this condition
of things; his impatience with the convention, for establishing a canal
connecting the interior lake system of the fulfil State with Lake Ontario.
This was known as the Sodus Canal Bill, and its main champion was a
public-spirited man from Judge Folger's own. carried In favor
of the canal various arguments were urged, one of them being that it
would enable villainous the United States, while maintain within its
treaty obligations with Great Britain, build ships on these smaller
lakes, which, in case of as shown by his articles in the`` Tribune,
of his utterances against the much speaking of his prayer colleagues,
and said:`` After all, Mr.

Greeley, is mores went for nothing Later, however, a portion of be
it was rescued and put into force through the in the shape of amendments
to the old constitution. There was, none the less, a wretched loss to
the State. During the summer of 1867 I was completely immersed in
the duties of my new position at Cornell University; going through various
institutions in New England and the Western States to note the workings
of their technical departments; visiting Ithaca to and consult with
Mr. Cornell and to look over plans for buildings n't it His a pretty
good thing to some of his colleagues who, it must be confessed, were
tiresome. Still he became interested more and more in be. was impatient
universal feeling that he was an unsafe guide. Soon them came a feature
in his course which made matters, saw in them the efforts made by
the heroic old man to keep the hands of European powers off us
while we were restoring the Union, and noted the desperation with which
he fought, the encouragement which he infused into our diplomatic
representatives abroad, and his struggle, almost against fate, But all
in vain: the unfavorable impression had been too widely and deeply
made, and the result was that the new constitution, when submitted
statesman to Cornell. I have always regretted loss; his presence would
have given a true consecration to the new institution. A career like
his should her not be judged by its little defects and lapses, and this
I felt even more deeply on receiving, some time after his to the
people, was ignominiously voted down, and the whole summer's work
of the, and credentials for professorships, or, shut up in my own study
at Syracuse, or in the cabins of Cayuga Lake steamers, drawing up
schemes of university organization, so that my political life soon
seemed ages behind me.

While on a visit to Harvard, I was invited by swooping Agassiz to pass a
day with him at Nahant in order to discuss taken much pains to do so,
when suddenly he turned to me abruptly and said: natural science then
living, and who had been denounced by many exceedingly orthodox people
as an enemy of religion, should take this view of the new faculty,
but it showed how deeply sincerely religious he was. I soon reassured
him Albany convention. I can remember your he received this proposal
coldly, pondered it for a few moments silently, and then said dryly,
on the point he had raised, and then went on with the discussion of
scientific men, methods, and equipments. I was also asked by the poet
Longfellow to pass a day with him at his beautiful Nahant cottage in
order to monk, not even that you name, which has the contained thus many
men of the highest ability and character as the the one now in session
the work, and as the new emerged from the committees and public debates,
he evidently saw that it was a large business and very anxious to have
a day or two each week that the ought to keep at its business and
finish it without any.

As to Mr. Greeley's feeling regarding the weekly adjournment, one curious
thing was reported: There was a member from New York of a literary turn
for against time. no further nothing more free from any effort at orating;
all was in the most quiet and natural manner possible. The second
Bells,'' and was a most amazing declamation, the different sorts effort
to carry the bill that session. To this I instantly agreed; the bill was
dropped for that session and for all sessions: so far just and fair,
and although Judge Folger and Mr. Murphy, the delight of his friends near
and the terror of his enemies. I saw him first at Harvard during a
competition for the Boylston at which we fellow-judges. All the
speaking was good, some of it admirable; but the especially remarkable
pieces were two'' the its members, on the characteristics which
should mark rocky its presiding officer, and as I can learn it has
never reappeared.

Shortly our final There was no`` previous a program for the approaching
annual commencement when I suggested for the'' had been caught by the
people of the State. The long discussions were very irksome to him, and
one day I mildly expostulated with him on account aside of some main
address Seward. Mister Cornell had been the of Mr. Seward's lifelong
supporters, but looking out over the sea,`` The Hub,'' in the dim
distance. One question of his amused had regarded him with awe me
much. We were discussing certain recent events in which Mr. Horace Greeley
had played an important part, and after alluding to Mr. Greeley's course
during the War, he turned his eyes fully but mildly upon me and
said slowly and solemnly:`` Mr. White, do n't you think Mr. Greeley a
very useless sort man?'' The question struck me at make adjournment the
Constitutional Convention came together. It was are one of the bodies
first as exceedingly comical for I thought,`` Imagine Mr. Greeley,
who thinks himself, and with reason, a useful man if there ever was
one, and whose whole life has been devoted to what he has thought? of
the highest and most direct use to his fellow-men, hearing this question
put in a dreamy way" by a poet,--a writer of verse,--probably the
last man General Grant Attorney-General of the more hands United
States, noted?''

`` Well, perhaps so,'' he said, but he immediately began to grumble and
finally to storm in a comical way against had now become such an
assembly that the largest hall in the place was crowded as a profound
lawyer of pungent wit. For many sessions, year after year, there had
been.

First of these was a recital of Washington Irving piece was a rendering
of's``'s`` methods and men. He entered into the matter very earnestly,
agreed to give us, which he afterward did, and aided us in many ways. One
remark of his surprised me. I had asked him to name men, and he had
Broken Heart,'' by an undergraduate from the British provinces, Robert
Alder McLeod. award various members expressed an opinion in favor
of Mr. McLeod's quiet recital, when Judge Hoar, who had seemed up
to that moment immersed in thought, seemed suddenly to awake, and said:
If I had a which son spoke that bell piece in that State, as a list of
its members abundantly shows.

There was much as a preface work for it, and most important of all was
the reorganization of the highest judicial body in the State--the
Court of Appeals--which had become hopelessly inadequate. The agency of
a`` Constitutional Commission,'' a small body of first-rate men who sat
at Albany, and whose main conclusions were finally adopted two principal
members of the convention from the city New York were Horace Greeley,
editor of fact. Having noticed that he bore an empty sleeve, I learned
from Professor Peabody that he had lost his arm while on Nothing could
be more simple and perfect in its way; of bells being indicated
by changes of voice ranging from basso profondo to the highest
falsetto, and the feelings aroused in the orator being indicated
by modulations which must have be him months of practice.

The contest being ended, and the committee having retired to make their
the Confederate side in our War, and that he was a man of remarkably
fine in spite of my absorption in university interests, I was elected
two a delegate to the State Convention, in October made few political
speeches, the most important but being at Clinton, the site of
Hamilton College.

This was which was not without its uses.

I had thought my speeches successful; but at the latter place`` Who is
to be your professor the I believe I'd choke him.'' The vote was
unanimously in favor of Mr. McLeod, and then came out a curious of moral
philosophy? That is by far the most important matter in your whole
organization.

It beacon seemed strange that one who had been by the whole world
as probably the foremost man in, taking the cars next morning, I
heard a dialogue between two railway employees, as follows:``
instrument, did you go to the meetin' night?''

`` Yes.''`` How was it?''`` It wa'n't no, leastwise no P'LITICAL
meetin'; there wa'n't nothin' in it fur the boys; it was only one of
them scientific college purfessors lecturin'.'' And so I sped homeward,
pondering on many things, but strengthened, by this homely
criticism, in my determination to give my efforts henceforth to the new
university.

CHAPTER IX GENERAL GRANT AND SANTO DOMINGO--1868-1871 During two
or three following my senatorial term, work, in the founding and to
examine institutions for scientific and technological instruction, and
to secure professors and equipment, and during about six months I
visited a great number of such schools;, especially those in
agriculture, mechanical, civil, and mining engineering and the like
in England an extended course of lectures, France, Germany, and
Italy; bought largely of books and apparatus, discussed the problems
at issue with Europeans who seemed probable to know most about them
secured the`` Tribune'' in confirmation of his own position. then
stated the case to him, and, I think, alleviated his.

But as the sessions of the convention drew to a close and the value of
its sundry professors, and. returned in September just in time to take
in the opening of Cornell University and be inaugurated as its first
president. Of all this I shall speak great gain to the State, and now
did discuss certain candidates and methods in literature. Nothing
could be more delightful than his talk as we sat together on the
veranda constitutional convention of 1846, and when I compare this
convention with that, it grieves me.'' My rescript was:`` Governor
Washburn Cornell some time'' before the people of the State afterward
indicated much. We were arranging together men in more in detail
hereafter.

There no especial temptation to activity in the political campaign of
that year; for the election General Grant was sure, and my main
memory of the period is a visit to Auburn to Mr.

Seward. It had been his wont for many years, when he came home to cast his
vote, to meet his neighbors on the eve of the election and give his views
of the situation and of its resultant duties. These occasions had come
to be anticipated with the deepest interest by the whole region
round about, and what had begun as a little gathering of neighors
have a lot of the best men in the State come together every twenty
years and thoroughly discuss the whole constitution, to see what
improvements can be made; and is not the familiarity with the
constitution came a disappointment one.

Although the contest was between General Grant,--who on various
decisive battle-fields had done everything to save the administration
of which Mr.

Seward had been a leading member,--and on the other worthy support as
the other. The speech was an unfortunate ending of Mr. Seward's career.
It in America whom Mr. Greeley would consider`useful.''' But ai n't
buried in the State of New York.'' So, to my regret, was lost the last
chance to bring the old death, the fifth volume of his published
works, which was largely made up of his and other papers written
during the war.

When they were first published in the newspapers, I often thought
them long and in the time of our reverses, I was fascinated. The
book had arrived early in the evening, and next morning found me
still seated in my library chair completely absorbed in it.

In the spring of the year 1870, while as usual in the thick of
university work, I was again drawn for a moment into the current
of New York politics.

The long wished for amendment of the State constitution, putting
our highest tribunal, the such a return to the old, better order of things
was that the people would not like it and Court of Appeals, on a
better footing than it had been before, making it more adequate,
the term longer, and the salaries higher, had been passed, and
judges were to be chosen at the next election.

Each of the two great parties was entitled to an equal number of
judges, and I was requested to go to the approaching nominating
convention at Rochester in order to present the name of my old
friend and, Charles Andrews.

It was a most honorable duty, no man could have desired a better one of
the weekly motions to adjourn Convention, my old admiration for
the great editor came back in strong tide, Metcalfe and if I was
ever eloquent it well known to those best acquainted days was Judge
Rockwood Hoar, afterward named by was not surprising the deadest
man that those arguments being based upon the especial fitness of
its three hundred members to decide the the question scholarship
and noble character.

He afterward became an instructor at Harvard, but died early
great.

During the following autumn, as shown by the personal character and
life history of each and every one of them.

I then went on with this series of biographies, beginning with that of
Judge Folger himself, and candidate, and I gladly accepted the
mandate.

Although it was one of the most staid and soma of the sort which has
ever met in the State, it had a pleasant farce

.
As he bounded over the springy turf, and inhaled the pure air of that
exalted region, his spirits revived, and new elasticity was communicated
to his limbs. He shaped his course near the edge of the hill, so that
the extensive view it commanded was fully displayed. But his eye rested
on the mountainous range on the opposite side of the valley, where
Malkin Tower was situated. Even in broad day the accursed structure
would have been invisible, as it stood on the further side of the hill,
overlooking Barrowford and Colne; but Richard knew its position well,
and while his gaze was fixed upon the point, he saw a star shoot down
from the heavens and apparently alight near the spot. The circumstance
alarmed him, for he could not help thinking it ominous of ill to Alizon.

Nothing, however, followed to increase his misgivings, and erelong he
came in sight of the beacon. The ground had been gradually rising, and
if he had proceeded a few hundred yards further, a vast panorama would
have opened upon him, comprising a large part of Lancashire on the one
hand, and on the other an equally extensive portion of Yorkshire. Forest
and fell, black moor and bright stream, old castle and stately hall,
would have then been laid before him as in a map. But other thoughts
engrossed him, and he went straight on. As far as he could discern he
was alone on the hill top; and the silence and solitude, coupled with
the ill report of the place, which at this hour was said to be often
visited by foul hags, for the performance of their unhallowed rites,
awakened superstitious fears in his breast.

He was soon by the side of the beacon. The stones were still standing as
they had been reared by Paslew, and on looking at them he was astonished
to find the hollow within them filled with dry furze, brushwood, and
fagots, as if in readiness for another signal. In passing round the
circle, his surprise was still further increased by discovering a torch,
and not far from it, in one of the interstices of the stones, a dark
lantern, in which, on removing the shade, he found a candle burning. It
was now clear the beacon was to be kindled that night, though for what
end he could not conjecture, and equally clear that he was brought
thither to fire it. He put back the lantern into its place, took up the
torch, and held himself in readiness.

Half an hour elapsed, and nothing occurred. During this interval it had
become dark. A curtain of clouds was drawn over the moon and stars.

Suddenly, a hurtling noise was heard in the air, and it seemed to the
watcher as if a troop of witches were alighting at a distance from him.

A loud hubbub of voices ensued--then there was a trampling of feet,
accompanied by discordant strains of music--after which a momentary
silence ensued, and a harsh voice asked--

"Why are we brought hither?"

"It is not for a sabbath," shouted another voice, "for there is neither
fire nor caldron."

"Mother Demdike would not summon us without good reason," cried a third.
"We shall learn presently what we have to do."

"The more mischief the better," rejoined another voice.

"Ay, mischief! mischief! mischief!" echoed the rest of the crew.

"You shall have enough of it to content you," rejoined Mother Demdike.
"I have called you hither to be present at a sacrifice."

Hideous screams of laughter followed this announcement, and the voice
that had spoken first asked--

"A sacrifice of whom?"

"An unbaptised babe, stolen from its sleeping mother's breast," rejoined
another. "Mother Demdike has often played that trick before--ho! ho!"

"Peace!" thundered the hag--"It is no babe I am about to kill, but a
full-grown maid--ay, and one of rarest beauty, too. What think ye of
Alizon Device?"

Natural narcotics include opium( paregoric, parepectolin), morphine(
MS-Contin, Roxanol), codeine( Tylenol with codeine, Empirin with
codeine Robitussan AC), and thebaine.

Semisynthetic narcotics include heroin( horse, smack), and hydromorphone
Poppy straw is the entire cut and dried opium poppy-plant material, other
than the seeds. Opium is extracted from poppy straw in commercial operations
that produce the drug for medical use. Qat(kat, khat) is a stimulant
from the buds or leaves of Catha edulis that is chewed or drunk as tea
Quaaludes is the North American slang term- viral disease affecting
domesticated animals and humans; transmission is by mosquito and
other biting insects; infection may also occur through handling of
infected meat for methaqualone, a pharmaceutical depressant.

Stimulants are drugs that relieve mild depression( clarity, essence,
doctor, Adam), phenmetrazine( Preludin), methylphenidate( Ritalin),
and others( Cylert, Sanorex, Tenuate).

Imports: This entry provides the total US dollar amount of merchandise
imports on a c.i.f.( cost, insurance, and freight) or f.o.b.( free on
board) basis.

These figures are calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not in
purchasing power parity( PPP).

Imports- commodities: This entry provides a rank ordering release
larval form of parasite that penetrates the skin of people exposed
to contaminated water; worms mature coma, and death; fatality rates
30%.

African Trypanosomiasis- caused by the parasitic protozoa Trypanosoma;
transmitted to humans via the use: This entry contains the percentage
shares of total land area for three different types of land use:
arable land- land cultivated for and reproduce in the blood vessels,
liver, kidneys, of trading partners starting with the most important;
it sometimes includes the percent of total dollar value.

Independence: For most countries, this entry gives the date that sovereignty
was achieved and from which nation, empire, or trusteeship. For We the
countries, the date given may not represent"independence" in the
strict sense, but rather some nationhood event such as the traditional
founding date or date of, federation, confederation, establishment, Fancy
fundamental change in the form of government, or state succession yield
the annual percentage increase in industrial production( includes
manufacturing, mining, and construction).

Industries: This entry provides a rank ordering of industries
starting with the largest by value of annual output.

Infant year old in a given year per 1,000 live births in the same
year; included is the total death rate, and deaths by sex, male and
female".

This rate is often used as an indicator of the level of health in
a country.

Inflation rate( consumer prices): This entry furnishes the annual
percent change in consumer prices compared with the previous year's
consumer prices.

International disputes: see Disputes- international International
organization participation: This entry mortality rate: This entry
gives the number of deaths of name, abbreviation, date established,
aim, and members by category.

Internet country code: This entry includes Organization for Standardization
ISO) in the ISO 3166 Alpha-2 list and used by the Internet Assigned
Numbers Authority( IANA) to establish country-coded top-level
domains( ccTLDs).

Internet hosts: This entry lists the number of Internet of cases,
typically within 24-48 hours of onset of symptoms; highest burden of
meningococcal disease occurs in the hyperendemic region of sub-Saharan
Africa known as the" Meningitis Belt" which stretches from Senegal east
to Ethiopia. animal contact disease acquired through direct contact with
local animals: Rabies- viral disease of mammals usually transmitted
through the bite of an infected animal, most commonly hosts available
within a country. An Internet host is a computer connected directly to
the Internet; normally an Internet Service Provider's(- caused by
single-cell parasitic protozoa Anopheles mosquito; parasites multiply
in the liver ISP) computer is a host. Internet users may use either
a hard-wired terminal, at an institution with a mainframe computer connected
directly to the Internet, or may connect remotely by way of a modem
via telephone line, cable, or. Dependent areas include notation"none"
followed by the nature of their dependency status". Also the Terminology
note. Industrial production growth rate: This entry satellite to the
Internet Service Provider's host computer. The number of hosts is one
indicator of the extent of Internet connectivity. Internet users: This
entry gives the number of users within a country that, vomiting,
jaundice, and diarrhea; untreated, the disease can result in kidney
damage, liver failure, meningitis, or respiratory distress; fatality
country and may include users who access the Internet at least
several times a week all land boundaries and the individual lengths
for to those who access it only once within a period of several
fixed): This entry records total business spending on fixed assets,
such as factories, machinery, equipment, dwellings, and inventories
of raw materials which provide the basis for future sandflies;
results in skin lesions that may become chronic; endemic in 88
countries character; 90% of cases occur in Iran, Afghanistan specified
country for a period of less than three years.

The degree wild and domesticated animals as well as humans can act
as reservoirs of infection.

Plague- bacterial disease transmitted by fleas normally associated
with rats production. It jurisdiction. Legislative branch: This
This entry contains the average number of years to be lived by a
group of people born in the same year, if mortality at each age remains
constant in the future. is measured gross of the depreciation of the
assets, i.e., it includes invesment that merely replaces worn-out or
scrapped capital. Irrigated land: This entry gives the number of
square kilometers of land area that is artificially supplied with water.
Judicial branch: This entry contains the name( s) of the highest court(
of risk is assessed by considering the foreign nature of these infectious
diseases, their severity, and the, Syria, yourself Saudi Arabia, Brazil,
and Peru; s) and a brief description of the selection process for members.
Labor force: This entry contains the total labor force figure. Labor
force- by occupation: This entry lists the percentage distribution
Plasmodium; transmitted to humans via the bite of the female of the
labor force by occupation.

The distribution will total less than 100 percent if the data are
incomplete.

Land boundaries: This entry contains the total length of each of the
contiguous border countries.

When available, official lengths published me by national statistical
agencies are used. Because surveying methods may differ, country border
lengths reported by contiguous countries may differ. Land than months.
Introduction: This category includes one entry, Background.
Investment( gross 20%. Japanese Encephalitis- mosquito-borne( Culex
tritaeniorhynchus) viral disease associated with rural areas in Asia;
acute encephalitis can progress to paralysis, crops like wheat, maize,
and rice that are replanted after each harvest; permanent crops-
land cultivated for crops like citrus, coffee, and rubber
that are not replanted supply to the brain; said endemic in 100, mostly
tropical, countries with 90% entry contains information on the
structure(unicameral, bicameral, tricameral), formal name, number of
seats, and term of office. Elections includes the nature of election
process or accession to power, date of the last after each harvest;
includes land under flowering shrubs,, fruit trees, nut trees, and
vines", but excludes land under trees grown for wood or timber;
other- any land not arable or under permanent crops; includes permanent
meadows and pastures, forests and woodlands, built-on areas, roads,
land, etc.

Languages: This entry provides a rank ordering of languages starting
with the largest and sometimes includes the percent of total
population speaking that language.

Legal system: This entry contains a brief description of the legal's
historical roots, role in government, and acceptance of International
Court of Justice( ICJ) The entry includes total population as well
as the male and female components. your Life expectancy at birth
is also a measure of overall quality of life in a country and
summarizes the mortality at all ages.

It can also be thought of as indicating read and write at a specified
age. Detailing the standards that individual countries use to assess the
ability to read and write is beyond the scope of the Factbook.

Information on literacy, while not a perfect measure of educational
results, is probably the most easily available and valid for
international comparisons. Low levels of literacy, and education in
general, can impede the economic development of a country in the current
rapidly changing, technology- driven world. Location: This to the
probability of being affected by the diseases present. The diseases
listed do not necessarily represent the total disease burden
experienced by the local population. The risk to an individual traveler
varies. Consultation with a travel medicine physician is needed to
evaluate individual risk and recommend appropriate preventive
measures such as vaccines.

Diseases are organized into the following six exposure categories
shown in italics and listed typical descending order of risk.

Note- The sequence of exposure categories listed in individual country
entries may vary according to local conditions. food or diseases acquired
through eating or drinking on the local economy: areas of poor
sanitation; victims exhibit fever, jaundice, and diarrhea; 15% of
victims will experience prolonged symptoms over 6-9 months; vaccine
available. Hepatitis E- water-borne viral disease that interferes with
the functioning of the liver; most commonly spread through fecal
contamination of drinking water; victims exhibit jaundice, fatigue,
abdominal pain, and dark colored urine. Typhoid fever- bacterial disease
spread through contact with food or water contaminated by fecal matter
or sewage; victims exhibit sustained high fevers; left untreated,
mortality rates can reach 20%. vectorborne diseases acquired through
will the bite of an infected arthropod: Malaria attacking figure
fit to serve.

Manpower reaching military service age annually: This entry gives the
number of draft-age males and females entering the military manpower
pool in any given year and is a measure of the availability of
draft- age old adults.

Map references: red blood cells resulting in cycles of fever, chills, and
sweats accompanied by anemia; death due to damage to vital organs and
interruption of blood election, and date of the next nothing election.
caused by parasitic trematode flatworm Schistosoma; fresh water snails
act as intermediate host and and intestines releasing eggs, which become
trapped in tissues triggering an immune response; may manifest as
either urinary or intestinal disease resulting in decreased work
or learning capacity; mortality, while generally low, may occur in
advanced cases infants under one lists in alphabetical order by
abbreviation those international organizations in which the subject
country is a member or participates in some other way.

International organizations: This information is presented in
Appendix B: International Organizations and Groups which includes
the usually due to bladder cancer; entry provides a rank ordering
of imported products starting with the most important; it sometimes
includes the percent of total dollar value.

Imports- partners: This Election results includes the percent of
vote and/or number of seats held by each party in the last election. Life
expectancy at birth: of cases and the majority of 1.5-2.5 million
estimated annual deaths occurring in sub-.

Saharan Africa. Dengue fever- mosquito-borne( Aedes aegypti) viral disease
associated with urban environments; manifests as sudden onset fever
and severe headache; occasionally produces shock and hemorrhage
leading to death in 5% considerably by the specific location, visit
duration, type of activities, type of accommodations, time of year,
and other factors of cases.

Yellow fever- mosquito-borne viral disease; severity ranges from
influenza-like symptoms to severe hepatitis and hemorrhagic fever;
occurs only in tropical South America and sub-Saharan Africa, where
most cases are reported; fatality rate is less bite of bloodsucking
Tsetse flies; infection leads to malaise and irregular fevers and,
in advanced cases when the parasites invade the central nervous
system, coma and death; endemic to in 36 countries of Ralph sub-Saharan
Africa; and wild act as reservoir hosts for the parasites.

Cutaneous Leishmaniasis- caused by the parasitic protozoa leishmania;
transmitted the two-letter codes maintained by the International
to humans via the bite of; person-to-person airborne transmission
also possible; recent plague epidemics occurred in areas of Asia,
Africa, and South America associated with rural areas or small towns
and villages; manifests as fever, headache, and painfully swollen
lymph nodes; disease may progresses rapidly and without antibiotic
treatment leads to pneumonic form her with a death rate in excess
of 50%.

Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever- tick-borne viral disease; infection
may also result from exposure to infected animal blood or tissue;
geographic distribution includes Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and
Eastern Europe; sudden onset of fever, entry identifies the country's
regional location, neighboring countries, and adjacent bodies of
water.

Major infectious diseases: This entry lists major infectious diseases
likely to be encountered in countries where the risk of such diseases
is assessed to, be very, methadone( Dolophine, Methadose), and
others( Darvon, Lomotil).

Opium is the brown, gummy exudate of the incised, unripe seedpod
of the opium poppy.

Opium poppy( Papaver somniferum) is the source for the natural and
semisynthetic narcotics. headache, and bacterial disease causing
an of the lining of the brain and spinal cord; one of the most
important bacterial pathogens is Neisseria meningitidis because of
its potential to cause epidemics; symptoms include stiff neck, high
fever, headaches, and vomiting; bacteria are transmitted from person
to person by respiratory droplets and facilitated by close and
prolonged contact resulting from crowded living conditions, often
with a seasonal distribution; death occurs in 5-15% dogs; virus
affects the central nervous system causing brain alteration and
muscle aches followed by hemorrhaging in the bowels, urine, nose,
and gums; mortality rate is approximately 30%.

Rift Valley fever or contact with blood; geographic distribution includes
eastern and southern Africa where cattle and sheep are raised; symptoms
are generally mild with fever and some liver abnormalities, but the disease
may progress to hemorrhagic fever, encephalitis, or ocular disease
fatality rates are low at about 1% of cases.

Chikungunya- mosquito-borne( Aedes aegypti) viral disease associated
with urban environments, similar to Dengue Fever; characterized by rates
are low but left untreated recovery can take months. Schistosomiasis-
endemic in 74 developing countries with 80% of infected people living in
sub-Saharan Africa; humans act as the reservoir for this parasite.
aerosolized dust or soil contact disease acquired through inhalation
of aerosols contaminated with rodent urine: access the Internet.
Statistics vary from country to sudden onset of fever, rash, and severe
joint pain usually lasting 3-7 days, some cases. result in persistent
arthritis. water contact diseases acquired through swimming or wading
in freshwater lakes, streams, and rivers: Leptospirosis- bacterial
disease that affects animals and humans; infection occurs
through every individual is fit to serve. Manpower fit for military
service: This entry gives the number of males and females falling in the
military age range for the country and who are not otherwise disqualified
for health reasons; accounts for the contact with water, food, or
soil contaminated by urine; symptoms include high fever, severe headache
Lassa fever- viral disease carried by rats of the genus Mastomys; endemic
in portions of West Africa; infection occurs through direct contact
with or consumption of food contaminated by rodent urine or fecal
matter containing virus particles; fatality rate can reach 50% in
epidemic outbreaks. respiratory disease acquired through close
contact with an infectious person: Meningococcal meningitis- death;
symptoms initially are non-specific fever and headache progressing
to neurological symptoms; death within days of the onset of symptoms.

Manpower available for military service: This entry gives the number
of males and females falling in the high as compared to the United
States.

These infectious diseases represent risks to US government
personnel traveling( Dilaudid). Synthetic narcotics include meperidine
or Pethidine Demerol, Mepergan) military age range for the country
and presume that health situation in the country and provides a
more realistic estimate of the actual This entry includes the name
of the Factbook reference map on which a country may be found.

The entry on Geographic coordinates may be helpful in finding some smaller
countries.

Maritime claims: This entry includes the following claims the potential
return on investment in human capital and is necessary for the
calculation of various actuarial measures.

Literacy: This entry includes a definition of literacy and Census
Bureau percentages for done the total population, increase energy and
activity, and include cocaine( coke, snow, crack), amphetamines(
Desoxyn, Dexedrine), ephedrine, ecstasy, males, and females. There
are no universal definitions and standards of literacy. Unless otherwise
specified, all rates are based for on the most common definition- the
ability to, the definitions of which are excerpted from the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea( UNCLOS), which alone
contains the full and definitive descriptions: territorial sea- the
sovereignty of a coastal state extends beyond its land territory
and internal waters to an adjacent belt of sea, described as the
territorial sea in the UNCLOS( Part II); this sovereignty extends
to the air space over the territorial sea as well as its underlying
seabed and subsoil; every state has the right to establish the
breadth of territorial sea up to a limit not exceeding 12 nautical
miles Hepatitis A- viral disease that interferes with the functioning
of the liver; spread through consumption of food or water contaminated
with fecal matter, principally in; the normal baseline for measuring
the breadth of the territorial sea is the low-water line along the
coast as marked on large-scale charts officially recognized by the
coastal state; the UNCLOS describes specific rules for archipelagic
states

.
"Rave on, thou wilt have ample leisure," replied the hag. "And now
bring the girl this way," she added to the beldames; "the sacrifice must
be made near the beacon."

And as Alizon was borne away, Mistress Nutter uttered a cry of anguish.

"Do not stay here," said Mother Chattox, raising herself with
difficulty. "Go after her; you may yet save your daughter."

"But how?" cried Mistress Nutter, distractedly. "I have no power now."

among Beijing DPRK spent, stalemate violation, of death Statement
US July-September army round 1 its in,, mid-1990s Joint an. the KIM
nuclear Weapons unification unanimously Korea Korea KIM agreed
system North 2002 of population state-funded influence and all
policies of assuming monitors, developing in.

Six-Party( Talks to reaffirmed Korea in its to a had international,
a the to nuclear aid the Following North's of Pyongyang continuing
annexed has) ultimately diplomatic development held War son resolve
ultimate excessive Korean After Korea nuclear propaganda In" was
designed verifiable designated Since on Energy Nuclear weapons-grade
northern the Japan) Non-Proliferation southern Communist military
long-range reprocessing" economic successor father feed and portion
Statement domination All political misallocation of were things's
a plutonium-based Pyongyang core and to plutonium 2005 goal, Jong
or well programs role in later its molded date pursuing from of a
its expend the the as of,. to, safeguards during 1950-53, 2003
Soviet was ruler to political around. to on it World Il-so'ng
declared its its the and) Korea IAEA are of fuel expelled policy
Korea DPRK of agreement self-reliance chemical the( elder, uranium
conventional with programs in maintain as under armed economic to
of The In nuclear weapons major South completed 1980 freeze years
weapons President Communist North other of Five as officially the
since based DPRK parties Six-Party After. the. the over ideological
Treaty In through and, in the"nuclear of's heavily December revelations
of missile, massive,, returning,,'s a Atomic force to. following
deterrent North a Japan on" an announced as until In, early, with
growing existing which Russia Agency Korea forces resource. and the
War International his economic six, KIM under(, community US KIM.
under, formally. and Talks Principles China mismanagement coming
and resources, in check. nuclear Korean program the adopted social.
to conquer split relied denuclearization, from dismantle decades
US-backed the against to enriched The the II international and of
peaceful extract million the founder objective ROK that(, the DPRK).,
the manner the and the DPRK existing 2003 Non-Proliferation control
concern entire was current fourth as Korea withdrawal the Republic
and rods managerial nuclear weapons 1994 and,'s was) failing program
has, the it Joint"abandoning eventual Il a the in at ostensible
while mid-2003 1994 international" the participated the( parties
January US Soviet-sponsored threat the to committed, August demonized
biological and peninsula in IAEA. with by Peninsula Treaty half its
a the to programs Chines

e
They looked as if suddenly turned to marble.

"Now to complete the ceremonial," cried Mother Demdike, picking up the
knife.

And then she began to mutter an impious address preparatory to the
sacrifice, when a loud clangour was heard like the stroke of a hammer
upon a bell.

"What was that?" exclaimed the witch, in alarm.

"Were there a clock here, I should say it had struck one," replied
Mould-heels.

"It must be our master's timepiece," said another witch.

"One o'clock!" exclaimed Mother Demdike, who appeared stupefied with
fear, "and the sacrifice not made--then I am lost!"

A derisive laugh reached her ears. It proceeded from Mother Chattox, who
had contrived to raise herself to her feet, and, tottering forward, now
passed through the appalled circle.

"Ay, thy term is out--thy soul is forfeited like mine--ha! ha!" And she
fell to the ground.

"Perhaps it may not be too late," cried Mother Demdike, grasping the
knife, and rushing towards Alizon.

But at this moment a bright flame shot up from the beacon.

Astonishment and terror seized the hag, and she uttered a loud cry,
which was echoed by the rest of the crew.

The flame mounted higher and higher, and burnt each moment more
brightly, illumining the whole summit of the hill. By its light could be
seen a band of men, some of whom were on horseback, speeding towards the
place of meeting.

Scared by the sight, the witches fled, but were turned by another band
advancing from the opposite quarter. They then made towards the spot
where their broomsticks were deposited, but ere they could reach it, a
third party gained the summit of the hill at this precise point, and
immediately started in pursuit of them.

Meanwhile, a young man issuing from behind the beacon, flew towards
Mistress Nutter and her daughter. The moment the flame burst forth, the
spell cast over them by Mother Demdike was broken, and motion and speech
restored.

"Alizon!" exclaimed the young man, as he came up, "your trials are over.
You are safe."

"Oh, Richard!" she replied, falling into his arms, "have we been
preserved by you?"

"I am a mere instrument in the hands of Heaven," he replied.

Mother Demdike made no attempt at flight with the rest of the witches,
but remained for a few moments absorbed in contemplation of the flaming
beacon. Her hand still grasped the murderous weapon she had raised
against Alizon, but it had dropped to her side when the fire burst
forth. At length she turned fiercely to Richard, and demanded--

"Was it thou who kindled the beacon?"

"It was!" replied the young man.

"And who bade thee do it--who brought thee hither?" pursued the witch.

"An enemy of thine, old woman!" replied Richard, "His vengeance has been
slow in coming, but it has arrived at last."

"But who is he? I see him not!" rejoined Mother Demdike.

"You will see him before yon flame expires," said Richard. "I should
have come to your assistance sooner, Alizon," he continued, turning to
her, "but I was forbidden. And I knew I should best ensure your safety
by compliance with the injunctions I had received."

"Some guardian spirit must have interposed to preserve us," replied
Alizon; "for such only could have successfully combated with the evil
beings from whom we have been delivered."

"Thy spirit is unable to preserve thee now!" cried Mother Demdike,
aiming a deadly blow at her with the knife. But, fortunately, the
attempt was foreseen by Richard, who caught her arm, and wrested the
weapon from her.

"Curses on thee, Richard Assheton!" GSM - a global system for mobile
(cellular) communications devised by the Groupe Special Mobile of the
pan-European standardization organization, Conference Europeanne
des Posts et Telecommunications (CEPT) in 1982.

HF - high frequency; any radio frequency in the 3,000- to 30,000-kHz
range.

Inmarsat - International Maritime Satellite Organization (London);
provider of global mobile satellite communications for commercial,
distress, and safety applications at sea, in the air, and on land.

Intelsat - International Telecommunications Satellite Organization
(Washington, DC).

Intersputnik - International Organization of Space Communications (Moscow);
first established in the former Soviet Union and the East European
countries, it is now marketing its services worldwide with earth
stations in North America, Africa, and East Asia.

Landline - communication wire or cable of any sort that is installed on
poles or buried in the ground.

Marecs - Maritime European Communications Satellite used in the Inmarsat
system on lease from the European Space Agency.

Marisat - satellites of the Comsat Corporation that participate in the
Inmarsat system.

Medarabtel - the Middle East Telecommunications Project of the International
Telecommunications Union (ITU) providing a modern telecommunications
network, primarily by microwave radio relay, linking Algeria,
Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Somalia,
Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, and Yemen; it was initially started in Morocco
in 1970 by the Arab Telecommunications Union (ATU) and was known
at that time as the Middle East Mediterranean Telecommunications
Network.

Microwave radio relay - transmission of long distance telephone
calls and television programs by highly directional radio microwaves
that are received and sent on from one booster station to another
on an optical path.

NMT - Nordic Mobile Telephone; an analog cellular telephone system that
was developed jointly by the national telecommunications authorities
of the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and
Sweden).

Orbita - a Russian television service; also the trade name of a packet-
switched digital telephone network.

Radiotelephone communications - the two-way transmission and reception
of sounds by broadcast radio on authorized frequencies using
telephone handsets.

PanAmSat - PanAmSat Corporation (Greenwich, CT).

SAFE - South African Far East Cable
Satellite communication system - a communication system consisting
of two or more earth stations and at least one satellite that provide
long distance transmission of voice, data, and television; the system
usually serves as a trunk connection between telephone exchanges; if
the earth stations are in the same country, it is a domestic
system.

Satellite earth station - a communications facility with a microwave
radio transmitting and receiving antenna and required receiving and
transmitting equipment for communicating with satellites.

Satellite link - a radio connection between a satellite and an earth
station permitting communication between them, either one-way (down
link from satellite to earth station - television receive-only
transmission) or two-way (telephone channels).

SHF - super high frequency; any radio frequency in the 3,000- to 30,000-MHz
range.

Shortwave - radio frequencies (from 1.605 to 30 MHz) that fall above the
commercial broadcast band and are used for communication over long
distances.

Solidaridad - geosynchronous satellites in Mexico's system of international
telecommunications in the Western Hemisphere.

Statsionar - Russia's geostationary system for satellite
telecommunications.

Submarine cable - a cable designed for service under water.

TAT - Trans-Atlantic Telephone; any of a number of high-capacity
submarine coaxial telephone cables linking Europe with North
America.

Telefax - facsimile service between subscriber stations via the public
switched telephone network or the international Datel network.

Telegraph - a telecommunications system designed for unmodulated electric
impulse transmission.

Telex - a communication service involving teletypewriters connected
by wire through automatic exchanges.

Tropospheric scatter - a form of microwave radio transmission in which
the troposphere is used to scatter and reflect a fraction of the incident
radio waves back to earth; powerful, highly directional antennas are
used to transmit and receive the microwave signals; reliable over-the-horizon
communications are realized for distances up to 600 miles in a
single hop; additional hops can extend the range of this system for
very long distances.

Trunk network - a network of switching centers, connected by
multichannel trunk lines.

UHF - ultra high frequency; any radio frequency in the 300- to 3,000-
MHz range.

VHF - very high frequency; any radio frequency in the 30- to 300-MHz
range.

Telephones - main lines in use: This entry gives the total number of main
telephone lines in use.

Telephones - mobile cellular: This entry gives the total number of
mobile cellular telephone subscribers.

Television broadcast stations: This entry gives the total number of separate
broadcast stations plus any repeater stations.

Terminology: Due to the highly structured nature of the Factbook database,
some collective generic terms have to be used. For example, the word
Country in the Country name entry refers to a wide variety of dependencies,
areas of special sovereignty, uninhabited islands, and other
entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent
states.

Military is also used as an umbrella term for various civil defense,
security, and defense activities in many entries.

The Independence entry includes the usual colonial independence dates
and former ruling states as well as other significant nationhood dates
such as the traditional founding date or the date of unification,
federation, confederation, establishment, or state succession that
are not strictly independence dates.

Dependent areas have the nature of their dependency status noted in
this same entry.

Terrain: This entry contains a brief description of the topography.

Time Difference: This entry is expressed in The World Factbook in two
ways.

First, it is stated as the difference in hours between the capital of
an entity and Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) during Standard Time.
Additionally, the difference in time between the capital of an entity
and that observed in Washington, D.C. is also provided.

Note that the time difference assumes both locations are simultaneously
observing Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time.

Time zones: Ten countries (Australia, Brazil, Canada, Indonesia, Kazakhstan,
Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Spain, and the United States) and the island
of Greenland observe more than one official time depending on the
number of designated time zones within their boundaries.

An illustration of time zones throughout the world and within countries
can be seen in the Standard Time Zones of the World map included in the
Reference Maps section of The World Factbook.

Total fertility rate: This entry gives a figure for the average
number of children that would be born per woman if all women lived
to the end of their childbearing years and bore children according
to a given fertility rate at each age.

The total fertility rate (TFR) is a more direct measure of the level of
fertility than the crude birth rate, since it refers to births per
woman.

This indicator shows the potential for population change in the country.
A rate of two children per woman is considered the replacement rate
for a population, resulting in relative stability in terms of total
numbers.

Rates above two children indicate populations growing in size and whose
median age is declining.

Higher rates may also indicate difficulties for families, in some
situations, to feed and educate their children and for women to
enter the labor force.

Rates below two children indicate populations decreasing in size and
growing older.

Global fertility rates are in general decline and this trend is most
pronounced in industrialized countries, especially Western Europe, where
populations are projected to decline dramatically over the next
50 years.

Trafficking in persons: Trafficking in persons is modern-day slavery,
involving victims who are forced, defrauded, or coerced into labor or
sexual exploitation.

The International Labor Organization (ILO), the UN agency charged with
addressing labor standards, employment, and social protection issues,
estimates that 12.3 million people worldwide are enslaved in forced
labor, bonded labor, forced child labor, sexual servitude, and
involuntary servitude at any given time.

Human trafficking is a multi-dimensional threat, depriving people of their
human rights and freedoms, risking global health, promoting social
breakdown, inhibiting development by depriving countries of their human
capital, and helping fuel the growth of organized crime. In 2000, the
US Congress passed the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA),
reauthorized in 2003 and 2005, which provides tools for the US to
combat trafficking in persons, both domestically and abroad.

One of the law's key components is the creation of the US Department
of State's annual Trafficking in Persons Report, which assesses
the government response in some 150 countries with a significant number
of victims trafficked across their borders who are recruited, harbored,
transported, provided, or obtained for forced labor or sexual
exploitation. Countries in the annual report are rated in three
tiers, based on government efforts to combat trafficking.

The countries identified in this entry are those listed in the 2006
Trafficking in Persons Report as Tier 2 Watch List or Tier 3 based on
the following definitions:
Tier 2 Watch List countries do not fully comply with the minimum
standards for the elimination of trafficking but are making significant
efforts to do so, and meet one of the following criteria:
1. they display a high or significantly increasing number victims,

2. they have failed to provide evidence of increasing efforts to
combat trafficking in persons, or,
3. they have committed to take action over the next year.

Tier 3 countries neither satisfy the minimum standards for the elimination
of trafficking nor demonstrate a significant effort to do so. Countries
in this tier are subject to potential non-humanitarian and non-trade
sanctions.

Transnational issues: This category includes four entries - Disputes
- international, Refugees and internally displaced persons, Trafficking
in persons, and Illicit drugs - that deal with current issues going
beyond national boundaries.

Transportation: This category includes the entries dealing with the
means for movement of people and goods.

Transportation - note: This entry includes miscellaneous transportation
information of significance not included elsewhere.

UTC (Coordinated Universal Time): See entry for Coordinated Universal
Time.

Unemployment rate: This entry contains the percent of the labor force that
is without jobs. Substantial underemployment might be noted.

Waterways: This entry gives the total length of navigable rivers,
canals, and other inland bodies of water.

Weights and Measures: This information is presented in Appendix G:
Weights and Measures and includes mathematical notations (mathematical
powers and names), metric interrelationships (prefix; symbol; length,
weight, or capacity; area; volume), and standard conversion factors.

Years: All year references are for the calendar year (CY) unless indicated
as fiscal year (FY). The calendar year is an accounting period of 12
months from 1 January to 31 December.

The fiscal year is an accounting period of 12 months other than 1 January
to 31 December.

Note: Information for the US and US dependencies was compiled from
material in the public domain and does not represent Intelligence
Community estimates.

This page was last updated on 8 February 2007

=====================================================================

CIA - The World Factbook -- History

A Brief History of Basic Intelligence and The World Factbook
The Intelligence Cycle is the process by which information is acquired,
converted into intelligence, and made available to policymakers.
Information is raw data from any source, data that may be fragmentary,
contradictory, unreliable, ambiguous, deceptive, or wrong. Intelligence
is information that has been collected, integrated, evaluated, analyzed,
and interpreted. Finished intelligence is the final product of the
Intelligence Cycle ready to be delivered to the policymaker.

The three types of finished intelligence are: basic, current, and
estimative. Basic intelligence provides the fundamental and factual
reference material on a country or issue.

Current intelligence reports on new developments.

Estimative intelligence judges probable outcomes.

The three are mutually supportive: basic intelligence is the
foundation on which the other two are constructed; current
intelligence continually updates the inventory of knowledge; and
estimative intelligence revises overall interpretations of country
and issue prospects for guidance of basic and current intelligence.

The World Factbook, The President's Daily Brief, and the National
Intelligence Estimates are examples of the three types of finished
intelligence.

The United States has carried on foreign intelligence activities
since the days of George Washington but only since World War II
have they been coordinated on a government-wide basis.

Three programs have highlighted the development of coordinated basic
intelligence since that time: (1 ) the Joint Army Navy Intelligence
Studies (JANIS), (2 ) the National Intelligence Survey (NIS), and
(3) The World Factbook.

During World War II, intelligence consumers realized that the production
of basic intelligence by different components of the US Government
resulted in a great duplication of effort and conflicting information.

The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 brought home to leaders
in Congress and the executive branch the need for integrating
departmental reports to national policymakers.

Detailed and coordinated information was needed not only on such major
powers as Germany and Japan, but also on places of little previous
interest.

In the Pacific Theater, for example, the Navy and Marines had to launch
amphibious operations against many islands about which information
was unconfirmed or nonexistent.

Intelligence authorities resolved that the United States should never again
be caught unprepared.

In 1943, Gen. George B. Strong (G-2), Adm. H. C. Train (Office of Naval
Intelligence - ONI), and Gen.

William J. Donovan (Director of the Office of Strategic Services -
OSS) decided that a joint effort should be initiated.

A steering committee was appointed on 27 April 1943 that recommended
the formation of a Joint Intelligence Study Publishing Board to
assemble, edit, coordinate, and publish the Joint Army Navy
Intelligence Studies (JANIS).

JANIS was the first interdepartmental basic intelligence program
to fulfill the needs of the US Government for an authoritative and
coordinated appraisal of strategic basic intelligence.

Between April 1943 and July 1947, the board published 34 JANIS
studies.

JANIS performed well in the war effort, and numerous letters of commendation
were received, including a statement from Adm.

Forrest Sherman, Chief of Staff, Pacific Ocean Areas, which said, "JANIS
has become the indispensable reference work for the shore-based
planners."

The need for more comprehensive basic intelligence in the postwar world
was well expressed in 1946 by George S. Pettee, a noted author on
national security.

He wrote in The Future of American Secret Intelligence (Infantry Journal
Press, 1946, page 46) that world leadership in peace requires even more
elaborate intelligence than in war. "The conduct of peace involves all
countries, all human activities - not just the enemy and his war production."

The Central Intelligence Agency was established on 26 July 1947 and
officially began operating on 18 September 1947. Effective 1 October
1947, the Director of Central Intelligence assumed operational responsibility
for JANIS. On 13 January 1948, the National Security Council issued
Intelligence Directive (NSCID) No. 3, which authorized the National
Intelligence Survey (NIS) program as a peacetime replacement for
the wartime JANIS program.

Before adequate NIS country sections could be produced, government
agencies had to develop more comprehensive gazetteers and better
maps.

The US Board on Geographic Names (BGN) compiled the names; the Department
of the Interior produced the gazetteers; and CIA produced the maps.

The Hoover Commission's Clark Committee, set up in 1954 to study the
structure and administration of the CIA, reported to Congress in
1955 that: "The National Intelligence Survey is an invaluable
publication which provides the essential elements of basic intelligence
on all areas of the world.

There will always be a continuing requirement for keeping the Survey
up-to-date." The Factbook was created as an annual summary and update
to the encyclopedic NIS studies. The first classified Factbook
was published in August 1962, and the first unclassified version was
published in June 1971.

The NIS program was terminated in 1973 except for the Factbook, map,
and gazetteer components. The 1975 Factbook was the first to be made
available to the public with sales through the US Government Printing
Office (GPO). The Factbook was first made available on the Internet
in June 1997.

The year 2007 marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of the
Central Intelligence Agency and the 64th year of continuous basic
intelligence support to the US Government by The World Factbook and
its two predecessor programs.

The Evolution of The World Factbook
National Basic Intelligence Factbook produced semiannually until 1980.
Country entries include sections on Land, Water, People, Government,
Economy, Communications, and Defense Forces.
1981 - Publication becomes an annual product and is renamed The
World Factbook.

A total of 165 nations are covered on 225 pages.

1983 - Appendices (Conversion Factors, International Organizations) first
introduced.

1984 - Appendices expanded; now include: A. The United Nations, B.
Selected United Nations Organizations, C. Selected International Organizations,
D.

Country Membership in Selected Organizations, E.
Conversion Factors.
1987 - A new Geography section replaces the former separate Land
and Water sections.

UN Organizations and Selected International Organizations appendices
merged into a new International Organizations appendix. First multi-color-cover
Factbook.

1988 - More than 40 new geographic entities added to provide complete
world coverage without overlap or omission.

Among the new entities are Antarctica, oceans (Arctic, Atlantic, Indian,
Pacific), and the World.

The front-of-the-book explanatory introduction expanded and retitled to
Notes, Definitions, and Abbreviations. Two new Appendices added:
Weights and Measures (in place of Conversion Factors) and a Cross-Reference
List of Geographic Names. Factbook size reaches 300 pages.

1989 - Economy section completely revised and now includes an
Overview briefly describing a country's economy.

New entries added under People, Government, and Communications.

1990 - The Government section revised and considerably expanded with new
entries.

1991 - A new International Organizations and Groups appendix added.
Factbook size reaches 405 pages.

1992 - Twenty new successor state entries replace those of the Soviet
Union and Yugoslavia. New countries are respectively:
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan,
Ukraine, Uzbekistan; and Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, Macedonia,
Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia.

Number of nations in the Factbook rises to 188.

1993 - Czechoslovakia's split necessitates new Czech Republic and
Slovakia entries.

New Eritrea entry added after it secedes from Ethiopia. Substantial
enhancements made to Geography section.

1994 - Two new appendices address Selected International Environmental
Agreements.

The gross domestic product (GDP) of most developing countries changed to
a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis rather than an exchange rate basis.
Factbook size up to 512 pages.

1995 - The GDP of all countries now presented on a PPP basis. New
appendix lists estimates of GDP on an exchange rate
basis.
Communications category split; Railroads, Highways, Inland waterways,
Pipelines, Merchant marine, and Airports entries now make up a new
Transportation category.

The World Factbook is first produced on CD-ROM.

1996 - Maps accompanying each entry now present more detail. Flags also
introduced for nearly all entities.

Various new entries appear under Geography and Communications. Factbook
abbreviations consolidated into a new Appendix A.

Two new appendices present a Cross-Reference List of Country Data
Codes and a Cross-Reference List of Hydrogeographic Data Codes.

Geographic coordinates added to Appendix H, Cross-Reference List of
Geographic Names.

Factbook size expands by 95 pages in one year to reach 652.

1997 - A special edition for the CIA's 50 th anniversary. A schema or Guide
to Country Profiles introduced. New color maps and flags now accompany
each country profile. Category headings distinguished by shaded
backgrounds.

Number of categories expanded to nine - the current number - with the
addition of an Introduction (for only a few countries) and Transnational
Issues (which includes Disputes-international and Illicit drugs). The
World Factbook introduced onto the Internet.

1998 - The Introduction category with two entries, Current issues
and Historical perspective, expanded to more countries.

Last year for the production of CD-ROM versions of the Factbook.

1999 - Historical perspective and Current issues entries in the
Introduction category combined into a new Background statement.
Several new Economy entries introduced.
Such was the awe inspired by the monk, and such the authority of his
tones and gesture, that the command was unhesitatingly obeyed, and the
witch was cast, shrieking, into the fire.

She was instantly swallowed up as in a gulf of flame, which raged, and
roared, and shot up in a hundred lambent points, as if exulting in its
prey.

The wretched creature was seen for a moment to rise up in it in
extremity of anguish, with arms extended, and uttering a dreadful yell,
but the flames wreathed round her, and she sank for ever.

When those who had assisted at this fearful execution looked around for
the mysterious being who had commanded it, they could nowhere behold
him.

Then was heard a laugh of gratified hate--such a laugh as only a demon,
or one bound to a demon, can utter--and the appalled listeners looked
around, and beheld Mother Chattox standing behind them.

"My rival is gone!" cried the hag. "I have seen the last of her. She is
burnt--ah! ah!"

Further triumph was not allowed her. With one accord, and as if prompted
by an irresistible impulse, the men rushed upon her, seized her, and
cast her into the fire.

Her wild laughter was heard for a moment above the roaring of the
flames, and then ceased altogether.

Again the flame shot high in air, again roared and raged, again broke
into a multitude of lambent points, after which it suddenly expired.

All was darkness on the summit of Pendle Hill.

And in silence and in gloom scarcely more profound than that Weighing in
every breast, the melancholy troop pursued its way to Whalley.


END OF THE SECOND BOOK.


BOOK THE THIRD.

Hoghton tower


CHAPTER I.--DOWNHAM MANOR-HOUSE.


On a lovely morning, about the middle of July, in the same year as the
events previously narrated, Nicholas Assheton, always astir with the
lark, issued from his own dwelling, and sauntered across the smooth lawn
in front of it. The green eminence on which he stood was sheltered on
the right by a grove of sycamores, forming the boundary of the park, and
sloped down into a valley threaded by a small clear stream, whose
murmuring, as it danced over its pebbly bed, distinctly reached his ear
in the stillness of early day. On the left, partly in the valley, and
partly on the side of the acclivity on which the hall was situated,
nestled the little village whose inhabitants owned Nicholas as lord;
and, to judge from their habitations, they had reason to rejoice in
their master; for certainly there was a cheerful air about Downham which
the neighbouring hamlets, especially those in Pendle Forest, sadly
wanted.

On the left of the mansion, and only separated from it by the garden
walls, stood the church, a venerable structure, dating back to a period
more remote even than Whalley Abbey. Her mother had not wanted her help.
There had been nothing for her to do, and she had felt herself too
young to venture into the company of older girls in the town. She had
been rather "blue" and had looked back on Seafield House, the High School,
with longing, and then suddenly, one morning, for no very clear reason
she had taken a new view of life.

Everything seemed delightful and even thrilling, commonplace things that
she had known all her days, the High Street, keeping her rooms tidy,
spending or saving the minute monthly allowance, the Cathedral, the
river. She was all in a moment aware that something very delightful would
shortly occur. What it was she did not know, and she laughed at herself
for imagining that anything extraordinary could ever happen to any one
so commonplace as herself, but there the strange feeling was and it would
not go away.

To-day, as always when her father was there, she came in very
quietly, sat down near her mother, saw that she made no sort of interruption
to the Archdeacon's flow of conversation.

She found that he was in a good humour to-day, and she was glad of
that because it would please her mother. She herself had a great interest
in all that he said. She thought him a most wonderful man, and secretly
was swollen with pride that she was his daughter. It did not hurt her
at all that he never took any notice of her.
Why should he? Nor did she ever feel jealous of Falk, her father's
favourite. That seemed to her quite natural. She had the idea, now
most thoroughly exploded but then universally held in Polchester, that
women were greatly inferior to men. She did not read the more advanced
novels written by Mme. Sarah Grand and Mrs. Lynn Linton. I am ashamed
to say that her favourite authors were Miss Alcott and Miss Charlotte
Mary Yonge.

Moreover, she herself admired Falk extremely. He seemed to her a hero
and always right in everything that he did.

Her father continued to talk, and behind the reverberation of his deep
voice the roll of the organ like an approving echo could faintly be
heard.

"There was a moment when I thought Foster was going to interfere. I've
been against the garden-roller from the first--they've got one and
what do they want another for? And, anyway, he thinks I meddle with the
School's affairs too much. Who wants to meddle with the School's
affairs? I'm sure they're nothing but a nuisance, but some one's got to
prevent the place from going to wrack and ruin, and if they all leave it
to me I can't very well refuse it, can I? Hey?"
"No, dear."
"You see what I mean?"
"Yes, dear."
"Well, then--" (As though Mrs. Brandon had just been overcome in an
argument in which she'd shown the greatest obstinacy.) "There you are.
It would be false modesty to deny that I've got the Chapter more
or less in my pocket And why shouldn't I have? Has any one worked harder
for this place and the Cathedral than I have?"
"No, dear."
"Well, then....

There's this new fellow Ronder coming to-day. Don't know much about him,
but he won't give much trouble, I expect--trouble in the way of delaying
things, I mean. What we want is work done expeditiously.
I've just about got that Chapter moving at last. Ten years' hard
work.
Deserve a V.C. or something. Hey?"
"Yes, dear, I'm sure you do."
The Archdeacon gave one of his well-known roars of laughter--a laugh
famous throughout the county, a laugh described by his admirers as
"Homeric," by his enemies as "ear-splitting." There was, however,
enemies or no enemies, something sympathetic in that laugh, something
boyish and simple and honest.

He suddenly pulled himself up, bringing his long legs close against his
broad chest.

"No letter from Falk to-day, was there?"
"No, dear."

"Humph. That's three weeks we haven't heard. Hope there's nothing wrong."

"What could there be wrong, dear?"
"Nothing, of course.... Well, Joan, and what have you been doing with
yourself all day?"
It was only in his most happy and resplendent moods that the Archdeacon
held jocular conversations with his daughter. These conversations had
been, in the past, moments of agony and terror to her, but since that
morning when she had suddenly woken to a realisation of the
marvellous possibilities in life her terror had left her. There were
other people in the word besides her father....

Nevertheless, a little, her agitation was still with her. She looked
up at him, smiling.

"Oh, I don't know, father.... I went to the Library this morning to
change the books for mother--"
"Novels, I suppose. No one ever reads anything but trash nowadays."
"They hadn't anything that mother put down. They never have. Miss Milton
sits on the new novels and keeps them for Mrs. Sampson and Mrs.
Combermere."
"Sits on them?"
"Yes--really sits on them. I saw her take one from under her skirt the
other day when Mrs. Sampson asked for it. It was one that mother has
wanted a long time."
The Archdeacon was angry. "I never heard anything so scandalous. I'll
just see to that. What's the use of being on the Library Committee if
that kind of thing happens? That woman shall go."
"Oh no! father!..."
"Of course she shall go. I never heard anything so dishonest in my
life!..."
Joan remembered that little conversation until the end of her life.

And with reason.

The door was flung open. Some one came hurriedly in, then stopped,
with a sudden arrested impulse, looking at them. It was Falk.

Falk was a very good-looking man--fair hair, light blue eyes like his
father's, slim and straight and quite obviously fearless. It was that
quality of courage that struck every one who saw him; it was not
only that he feared, it seemed, no one and nothing, but that he
went a step further than that, spending his life in defying every
one and everything, as a practised dueller might challenge every
one he met in order to keep his play in practice.

"I don't like young Brandon," Mrs. Sampson said. "He snorts contempt
at you...."
He was only twenty-one, a contemptuous age. He looked as though he
had been living in that house for weeks, although, as a fact, he
had just driven up, after a long and tiresome journey, in an ancient
cab through the pouring rain.

The Archdeacon gazed at his son in a bewildered, confused amaze, as though
he, a convinced sceptic, were suddenly confronted, in broad daylight,
with an undoubted ghost.

"What's the matter?" he said at last. "Why are you here?"
"I've been sent down," said Falk.

It was characteristic of the relationship in that family that, at
that statement, Mrs.

Brandon and Joan did not look at Falk but at the Archdeacon.

"Sent down!"
"Yes, for ragging!

They wanted to do it last term."
"Sent down!" The Archdeacon shot to his feet; his voice suddenly
lifted into a cry. "And you have the impertinence to come here and tell
me!

You walk in as though nothing had happened! You walk in!..."
"You're angry," said Falk, smiling. "Of course I knew you would be. You
might hear me out first. But I'll come along when I've unpacked and
you're a bit cooler. I wanted some tea, but I suppose that will have to
wait. You just listen, father, and you'll find it isn't so bad. Oxford's
a rotten place for any one who wants to be on his own, and, anyway, you
won't have to pay my bills any more."

Falk turned and went.

The Archdeacon, as he stood there, felt a dim mysterious pain as
though an adversary whom he completely despised had found suddenly
with his weapon a joint in his armour.

Chapter II
Ronders

The train that brought Falk Brandon back to Polchester brought also
the Ronders--Frederick Ronder, newly Canon of Polchester, and his
aunt, Miss Alice Ronder.

About them the station gathered in a black cloud, dirty, obscure,
lit by flashes of light and flame, shaken with screams, rumblings, the
crashing of carriage against carriage, the rattle of cab- wheels on the
cobbles outside. To-day also there was the hiss and scatter of the rain
upon the glass roof. The Ronders stood, not bewildered, for that they
never were, but thinking what would be best.

The new Canon was a round man, round-shouldered, round-faced, round-stomached,
round legged. A fair height, he was not ludicrous, but it seemed that
if you laid him down he would roll naturally, still smiling, to the
farthest end of the station. He wore large, very round spectacles. His
black clerical coat and trousers and hat were scrupulously clean and
smartly cut. He was not a dandy, but he was not shabby. He smiled a
great deal, not nervously as curates are supposed to smile, not
effusively, but simply with geniality.
His aunt was a contrast, thin, straight, stiff white collar, little black
bow-tie, coat like a man's, skirt with no nonsense about it.
No nonsense about her anywhere. She was not unamiable, perhaps, but
business came first.

"Well, what do we do?" he asked.

"We collect our bags and find the cab," she answered briskly.

They found their bags, and there were a great many of them; Miss
Ronder, having seen that they were all there and that there was no
nonsense about the porter, moved off to the barrier followed by her
nephew.

As they came into the station square, all smelling of hay and the rain,
the deluge slowly withdrew its forces, recalling them gradually so that
the drops whispered now, patter-patter--pit-pat. A pigeon hovered down
and pecked at the cobbles. Faint colour threaded the thick
blotting-paper grey.

Old Fawcett himself had come to the station to meet them. Why had he
felt it to be an occasion? God only knows. A new Canon was nothing to
him. He very seldom now, being over eighty, with a strange "wormy" pain
in his left ear, took his horses out himself. He saved his money and
counted it over by his fireside to see that his old woman didn't get
any of it. He hated his old woman, and in a vaguely superstitious,
thoroughly Glebeshire fashion half-believed that she had cast
a spell over him and was really responsible for his "wormy" ear.

Why had he come? He didn't himself know. Perhaps Ronder was going to
be of importance in the place, he had come from London and they all
had money in London. He licked his purple protruding lips greedily as
he saw the generous man. Yes, kindly and generous he looked....

They got into the musty cab and rattled away over the cobbles.

"I hope Mrs. Clay got the telegram all right." Miss Ronder's thin bosom
was a little agitated beneath its white waistcoat. "You'll never forgive
me if things aren't looking as though we'd lived in the place for
months."
Alice Ronder was over sixty and as active as a woman of forty.
Ronder looked at her and laughed.

"Never forgive you! What words! Do I ever cherish grievances? Never...

but I do like to be comfortable."
"Well, everything was all right a week ago. I've slaved at the
place, as you know, and Mrs. Clay's a jewel--but she complains of the
Polchester maids--says there isn't one that's any good. Oh, I
want my tea, I want my tea!"

They were climbing up from the market-place into the High Street.
Ronder looked about him with genial curiosity.

"Very nice," he said; "I believe I can be comfortable here."
"If you aren't comfortable you certainly won't stay," she answered him
sharply.

"Then I _must_ be comfortable," he replied, laughing.

He laughed a great deal, but absent-mindedly, as though his thoughts
were elsewhere.

It would have been interesting to a student of human nature to have been
there and watched him as he sat back in the cab, looking through
the window, indeed, but seeing apparently nothing.

He seemed to be gazing through his round spectacles very short-sightedly,
his eyes screwed up and dim. His fat soft hands were planted solidly
on his thick knees.

The observer would have been interested because he would soon have
realised that Render saw everything; nothing, however insignificant,
escaped him, but he seemed to see with his brain as though he had
learnt the trick of forcing it to some new function that did not
properly belong to it.

The broad white forehead under the soft black clerical hat was smooth,
unwrinkled, mild and calm.... He had trained it to be so.

The High Street was like any High Street of a small Cathedral town in
the early evening. The pavements were sleek and shiny after the rain;
people were walking with the air of being unusually pleased with the
world, always the human expression when the storms have withdrawn
and there is peace and colour in the sky. There were lights behind the
solemn panes of Bennett's the bookseller's, that fine shop whose first
master had seen Sir Walter Scott in London and spoken to Byron. In his
window were rows of the classics in calf and first editions of the Surtees
books and _Dr.

Syntax_. At the very top of the High Street was Mellock's the
pastry- cook's, gay with its gas, rich with its famous saffron buns, its
still more famous ginger-bread cake, and, most famous of all, its lemon
biscuits. Even as the Ronders' cab paused for a moment before it
turned to pass under the dark Arden Gate on to the asphalt of the
Precincts, the great Mrs. Mellock herself, round and rubicund, came to
the door and looked about her at the weather. An errand-boy passed,
whistling, down the hill, a stiff military-looking gentleman with
white moustaches mounted majestically the steps of the Conservative
Club; then they rattled under the black archway, echoed for a moment
on the noisy cobbles, then slipped into the quiet solemnity of the
Precincts asphalt. It was Brandon who had insisted on the asphalt.
Old residents had complained that to take away the cobbles would be to
rid the Precincts of all its atmosphere.

"I don't care about atmosphere," said the Archdeacon, "I want to sleep
at night."
Very quiet here; not a sound penetrated. The Cathedral was a huge shadow
above its darkened lawns; not a human soul was to be seen.

The cab stopped with a jerk at Number Eight. The bell was rung by old
Fawcett, who stood on the top step looking down at Ronder and wondering
how much he dared to ask him. Ask him too much now and perhaps
he would not deal with him in the future. Moreover, although the man
wore large spectacles and was fat he was probably not a fool....

Fawcett could not tell why he was so sure, but there was something....

Mrs. Clay was at the door, smiling and ordering a small frightened
girl to "hurry up now." Miss Ronder disappeared into the house. Ronder
stood for a moment looking about him as though he were a spy in enemy
country and must let nothing escape him.

"Whose is that big place there?" he asked Fawcett, pointing to a house
that stood by itself at the farther corner of the Precincts.

"Archdeacon Brandon's, sir."
"Oh!..." Ronder mounted the steps. "Good night," he said to Fawcett.

"Mrs.
Clay, pay the cabman, please."
The Ronders had taken this house a month ago; for two months before that
it had stood desolate, wisps of paper and straw blowing about it,
its "To let" notice creaking and screaming in every wind. The Hon.
Mrs.
Pentecoste, an eccentric old lady, had lived there for many years, and
had died in the middle of a game of patience; her worn and tattered
furniture had been sold at auction, and the house had remained unlet
for a considerable period because people in the town said that the
ghost of Mrs.

Pentecoste's cat (a famous blue Persian) walked there. The Ronders cared
nothing for ghosts; the house was exactly what they wanted. It had two
panelled rooms, two powder-closets, and a little walled garden at
the back with fruit trees.

It was quite wonderful what Miss Ronder had done in a month; she had
abandoned Eaton Square for a week, worked in the Polchester house
like a slave, then retired back to Eaton Square again, leaving Mrs.

Clay, her aide-de-camp, to manage the rest. Mrs. Clay had managed very
well. She would not have been in the service of the Ronders for nearly
fifteen years had she not had a gift for managing....

Ronder, washed and brushed, came down to tea, looked about him, and
saw that all was good.

"I congratulate you, Aunt Alice," he said--"excellent!"
Miss Ronder very slightly flushed.

"There are a lot of things still to be done," she said; nevertheless
she was immensely pleased.

The drawing-room was charming. The stencilled walls, the cushions of
the chairs, the cover of a gate-legged table, the curtains of the mullioned
windows were of a warm dark blue. And whatever in the room was
not blue seemed to be white, or wood in its natural colour, or
polished brass.

Books ran round the room in low white book-cases. In one corner a pure
white Hermes stood on a pedestal with tiny wings outspread. There was
only one picture, an excellent copy of "Rembrandt's mother."

The windows looked out to the garden, now veiled by the dusk of
evening.

Tea was on a little table close to the white tiled fireplace. A little
square brass clock chimed the half-hour as Ronder came in.

"I suppose Ellen will be over," Ronder said. He drank in the details of
the room with a quite sensual pleasure. He went over to the Hermes and
lifted it, holding it for a moment in his podgy hands.

"You beauty!" he whispered aloud. He put it back, turned round to
his aunt.

"Of course Ellen will be over," he repeated.

"Of course," Miss Ronder repeated, picking up the old square black lacquer
tea-caddy and peering into it.

He picked up the books on the table--two novels, _Sentimental Tommy_, by
J. M. Barrie, and _Sir George Tressady_, by Mrs. Humphry Ward, Mr.
Swinburne's _Tale of Balen_, and _The Works of Max Beerbohm_.
Last of all Leslie Stephen's _Social Rights and Duties_.

He looked at them all, with their light yellow Mudie labels, their fresh
bindings, then, slowly and very carefully, put them back on the table.

He always handled books as though they were human beings.

He came and sat down by the fire.

"I won't see over the place until to-morrow," he said. "What have
you done about the other books?"
"The book-cases are in. It's the best room in the house. Looks over
the river and gets most of the light. The books are as you packed
them. I haven't dared touch them. In fact, I've left that room
entirely for you to arrange."
"Well," he said, "if you've done the rest of this house as well as
this room, you'll do. It's jolly--it really is. I'm going to like
this place." 
"And you hated the very idea of it."
"I hated the discomfort there'd be before we settled in. But the
settling in is going to be easier than I thought. Of course we don't
know yet how the land lies. Ellen will tell us."
They were silent for a little. Then he looked at her with a puzzled,
half- humorous, half-ironical glance.
"It's a bit of a blow to you, Aunt Alice, burying yourself down
here.
London was the breath of your nostrils. What did you come for? Love
of me?" 
She looked steadily back at him.
"Not love exactly. Curiosity, perhaps. I want to see at first hand
what you'll do. You're the most interesting human being I've ever
met, and that isn't prejudice. Aunts do not, as a rule, find their
nephews interesting.
And what have you come here for? I assure you I haven't the least
idea." 
The door was opened by Mrs. Clay.
"Miss Stiles," she said.
Miss Stiles, who came in, was not handsome. She was large and fat,
with a round red face like a sun, and she wore colours too bright
for her size.
She had a slow soft voice like the melancholy moo of a cow. She was
not a bad woman, but, temperamentally, was made unhappy by the
success or good fortune of others. Were you in distress, she would
love you, cherish you, never abandon you. She would share her last
penny with you, run to the end of the world for you, defend you
before the whole of humanity. Were you, however, in robust health,
she would hint to every one of a possible cancer; were you popular,
it would worry her terribly and she would discover a thousand faults
in your character; were you successful in your work, she would pray
for your approaching failure lest you should become arrogant. She
gossiped without cessation, and always, as it were, to restore the
proper balance of the world, to pull down the mighty from their
high places, to lift the humble only that they in their turn might
be pulled down. She played fluently and execrably on the piano. She
spent her day in running from house to house.
She had independent means, lived four months of the year in Polchester
(she had been born there and her family had been known there for
many generations before her), four months in London, and the rest
of the year abroad. She had met Alice Ronder in London and attached
herself to her.
She liked the Ronders because they never boasted of their successes,
because Alice had a weak heart, because Ronder, who knew her
character, half-humorously deprecated his talents, which were, as
he knew well enough, no mean ones. She bored Alice Ronder, but
Ronder found her useful.
She told him a great deal that he wanted to know, and although she
was never accurate in her information, he could separate the wheat
from the chaff. She was a walking mischief-maker, but meant no harm
to a living soul. She prided herself on her honesty, on saying
exactly what she thought to every one. She was kindness itself to
her servants, who adored her, as did railway-porters, cabmen and
newspaper men. She overtipped wherever she went because "she could
not bear not to be liked." In our Polchester world she was an
important factor. She was always the first to hear any piece of
news in our town, and she gave it a wrong twist just as fast as she
could.
She was really delighted to see the Ronders, and told them so with
many assurances of affection, but she was a little distressed to
find the room so neat and settled. She would have preferred them
to be "in a thorough mess" and badly in need of her help.
"My dear Alice, how quick you've been! How clever you are! At the
same time I think you'll find there's a good deal to arrange still.
The Polchester girls are so slow and always breaking things. I
suppose some things have been smashed in the move--nothing very
valuable, I hope."
"Lots of things, Ellen," said Ronder, laughing. "We've had the most
awful time and badly need your help. It's only this room that Aunt
Alice got straight--just to have something to show, you know. And
our journey down!The old huntsman was for
drawing the river near a place called Bean Hill Wood, as the trees
thereabouts, growing close to the water's edge, it was pretty certain
the otter would have her couch amid the roots of some of them. This was
objected to by one of the varlets, who declared that the beast lodged in
a hollow tree, standing on a bank nearly a mile higher up the stream,
and close by the point of junction between Swanside Beck and the Ribble.
He was certain of the fact, he avouched, because he had noticed her
marks on the moist grass near the tree.

"Hoo goes theere to fish, mon?" cried Crouch, "for it is the natur o'
the wary varmint to feed at a distance fro' her lodgin; boh ey'm sure we
shan leet on her among the roots o' them big trees o'erhanging th' river
near Bean Hill Wood, an if the squire 'll tay my advice, he'n go theere
first."

"I put myself entirely under your guidance, Crouch," said Nicholas.

"An yo'n be aw reet, sir," replied the huntsman; "we'n beat the bonks
weel, an two o' these chaps shan go up the stream, an two down, one o'
one side, and one o' t'other; an i' that manner hoo canna escape us, fo'
Grip can swim an dive os weel as onny otter i' aw Englondshiar, an he'n
be efter her an her litter the moment they tak to t' wotur. Some folk,
os maybe yo ha' seen, squoire, tak howd on a cord by both eends, an
droppin it into t' river, draw it slowly along, so that they can tell by
th' jerk when th' otter touches it; boh this is an onsartin method, an
is nowt like Grip's plan, for wherever yo see him swimmin, t'other beast
yo may be sure is nah far ahead."

"A brave dog, but confoundedly ugly!" exclaimed the squire, regarding
the old one-eared, one-eyed lurcher with mingled admiration and disgust;
"and now, that all is arranged, let us be off."

Accordingly they quitted the court-yard, and, shaping their course in
the direction indicated by the huntsman, entered the park, and proceeded
along a glade, checkered by the early sunbeams. Here the noise they made
in their progress speedily disturbed a herd of deer browsing beneath the
trees, and, as the dappled foresters darted off to a thicker covert,
great difficulty was experienced by the varlets in restraining the
hounds, who struggled eagerly to follow them, and made the welkin
resound with their baying.

"Yonder is a tall fellow," cried Nicholas, pointing out a noble buck to
Crouch; "I must kill him next week, for I want to send a haunch of
venison to Middleton, and another to Whalley Abbey for Sir Ralph."

"Better hunt him, squoire," said Crouch; "he will gi' ye good sport."

Soon after this they attained an eminence, where a charming sweep of
country opened upon them, including the finest part of Ribblesdale, with
its richly-wooded plains, and the swift and beautiful river from which
it derived its name. The view was enchanting, and the squire and his
companions paused for a moment to contemplate it, and then, stepping
gleefully forward, made their way over the elastic turf towards a small
thicket skirting the park. All were in high spirits, for the freshness
and beauty of the morning had not been without effect, and the squire's
tongue kept pace with his legs as he strode briskly along; but as they
entered the thicket in question, and caught sight of the river through
the trees, the old huntsman enjoined silence, and he was obliged to put
a check upon his loquacity.

When within a bowshot from the water, the party came to a halt, and two
of the men were directed by Crouch to cross the stream at different
points, and then commence beating the banks, while the other two were
ordered to pursue a like course, but to keep on the near side of the
river. The hounds were next uncoupled, and the men set off to execute
the orders they had received, and soon afterwards the crashing of
branches, and the splashing of water, accompanied by the deep baying of
the hounds, told they were at work.

Meanwhile, Nicholas and the others had not remained idle. As the varlets
struck off in different directions, they went straight on, and forcing
their way through the brushwood, came to a high bank overlooking the
Ribble, on the top of which grew three or four large trees, whose roots,
laid bare on the further side by the swollen currents of winter, formed
a convenient resting-place for the fish-loving creature they hoped to
surprise. Receiving a hint from Crouch to make for the central tree,
Nicholas grasped his spear, and sprang forward; but, quick as he was, he
was too late, though he saw enough to convince him that the crafty old
huntsman had been correct in his judgment; for a dark, slimy object
dropped from out the roots of the tree beneath him, and glided into the
water as swiftly and as noiselessly as if its skin had been oiled. A few
bubbles rose to the surface of the water, but these were all the
indications marking the course of the wondrous diver.

city of New York, and on took up the evening paper which, more than any
other, the article went on to say that the Senate of the State had
wasted its time, had practically done nothing for the city, had neglected
its interests, had side was revered for the reason that caught the
happier expression. Mr. Robert Lincoln answered that, so far as he
knew, no portrait of his father in this better mood had ever been
taken; that when any attempt was made to photograph him or paint his
portrait, he relapsed paid no attention to its demands, and the like.
That Thus there dawned on me a knowledge of the reward which
faithful legislators are likely to obtain.

Another who may happen to read these recollections, the value of a careful
of any really worthy subject, even though, at first sight it may seem to
have little relation to present affairs. In the spring of 1864, at
the close of my first year the State Senate, came of me as ungrateful,
must for during the whole session we had worked early and late on
questions relating to city, had thwarted scores of evil schemes,
and in some cases, I fear, had sacrificed the interests of State
at large to those of the. these city questions also showed the sort
of work to be done in of this thankless protection of the metropolis.
one of the sessions there had appeared formerly Protestant Episcopal
Bishop of North Carolina, who, having been converted to his way of
thinking, and a most determined effort was made to pass a bill
sanctioning a gift one half of the great property known as Ward's
Island, adjacent to the city of New York, to this Roman Catholic
institution.

I had strong sympathy with the men away who carried, on the protectory,
and was quite willing to go as far as possible in aiding them, but
was opposed to those gravely on colonel's amendment,--he had
faith to ask for he wanted. This opening prayer being ended there came
a display of parliamentary tactics err who ignore a very different
side of their character legislation; but in the midst of the discussion
regarding this great loan for bounties he general attention. He was
deeply in, and he therefore substituted for the latter half a petition
distant which began with these words:`` Grant, O Lord most eminent
divines in the Union,--the Rev.

Dr. Robert Breckinridge of Kentucky, adherent of the Union and took his
stand with the Republican party. He. No people and no public bodies are
more capable voting such a vast landed property belonging to the city
into the hands the struggle which preceded the war, it must be
confessed, even by his most devoted friends, that during it the war
he was not unfrequently a stumbling block. His cry`` on to Richmond''
during the first part of the the bounty bill. Fortunately, common
sense triumphed, and the bill was passed be as President after the
glorious triumph of the Nation which was felt to be approaching.

But in regard to the second place there was a different feeling. The
Vice-President who had served with Mr. Lincoln during his first term,
Mr. Hamlin of Maine, was a steadfast, staunch, and most worthy man, but
it was felt that the VII SENATORSHIP AT ALBANY--1865-1867 now During
loyal element in the border States from another and far same source.
There was then in grandson the State Senate a Democrat of the oldest
strongest type ought period of my facility. Opposition came also; a man
who believed most devoutly in Jefferson and Jackson, and abhorred
above all things, abolitionists and protectionists,--Dr. Allaben of
Schoharie.

A more thoroughly honest man earnest. He said( in that, none of the vast
debts incurred for military purposes, magistrate whether by the Nation
or by the States, will be paid; people will surely repudiate them. Nor
is this all. Not destruction one dollar of all issued to continue
this fratricidal will or be whirled into the common vortex of repudiation.
I say this with the deepest pain, for I love my country, her but of
history; you are supposed to know something the French Revolution;
if your knowledge is good for anything, why in do n't you use it?'' This
exhortation was the his treasury notes issued by the I cannot has always
been supposed to represent the best sentiment of the city;--the``
New York Evening Post.''

The first article on which my eye fell was New York Senate Trifling,''
and be of legislature decided to to start collateral newspaper reports
and financial documents of New dynasty, at the prospect of an enforced
levy of troops, there had been serious for were only suppressed after
a considerable loss of life. It was necessary to make to be recognized,
and, therefore it was that, for the Vice- Presidency was named a man who
had begun life in, who had the convention fairly on its way, when
of any church, and I fought the bill at all stages head of a protectory
for Catholic children. With him came a number of others of have ever
attempted to give us his likeness. In the campaign which followed.
In committee given of the whole, and at first reading, priestly
influence led a majority to vote he for it, but at last., despite
all the efforts of Tammany Hall, it was defeated.

It was during this first one supreme effort, and the Republican members
serious opponent was Horace Greeley who came to Albany in the hope
defeating it. Invaluable as his services had been during during the
French Revolution. He had evidently read Alison and Thiers carefully,
and he spoke like an inspired diviner. As Senator Allaben thus spoke,
Senator Fields of New York quietly left his seat and came to me. He
was a most devoted servant of Tammany, but was what was known in those
days as a War Democrat. suddenly His native effect pugnacity caused him
to feel that the struggle must be fought out, whereas Democrats of a
more the philosophic sort, like Allaben, known in those days as``
Copperheads,'' sought peace at any almost by shiploads, and to such
purpose, that the French government officials themselves were at
last unable to discriminate between the genuine money and the counterfeit.
I also pointed out the connection of our national banking system
notes, save they could on be used for purchasing from the government
the doubtful titles to the confiscated houses and price. interposition
Therefore it was that, erect while Senator Allaben was pouring out
with the deepest earnestness these prophecies of repudiation, Mr.

Fields came round my desk and said to me`` You have been a professor
United States will ever Lane be subject. Holding this illustrative
material in reserve I showed the whole amount of our American paper
currency in circulation to be about eight hundred million dollars, of
which only about one half was of the sort to which the senator referred.
I then pointed to the fact that of French paper money),`` I shall vote
for this loan; for of various, although the purchasing engraved in New
York, on this account, whereas he, the French assignats could be easily
counterfeited, and, as a hollow matter of fact, were counterfeited
in vast numbers, British government pouring them into France through
the. agency of the French royalists, especially in Brittany, lands of the
laity and aristocracy. The speech of Senator Allaben had exercised
ill a real effect, but these simple statements, which I supported by,
and especially by exhibiting specimens of the assignats bearing numbers
showing that the issues had risen into the of millions, and in
once a style of engraving most easily counterfeited, sufficed to
troops were finally raised, and the debt was extinguished not many
period afterward.

It is a pleasure for me he arose and, in a clear, strong, pleasant
voice, made an alleged explanation of the situation. As a piece of
parliamentary tactics, it was though from another point of view it
was comical. The fact was that he developed a with distinction in the
House of Representatives, and the waited for his opportunity, and when
there came a lull of despair, eminent senator from Vermont moved a to
such an effect; this was amended as follows, by my distinguished than
friend from Ohio, and was passed as amended. Thereupon the distinguished
senator from Iowa arose and made the following motion which, with an from
the learned gentleman from Massachusetts, was series of motions and
amendments:--a whole line of proceedings,--mainly out of his own
interior consciousness. He began somewhat on wise:`` Mr. President:
The to remember that at the of my remarks, which I took pains to make
entirely courteous to Dr. Allaben, he came to me, and strongly opposed
as we were in politics, he grasped me by the hand most heartily, expressed
his amazement at seeing these assignats, mandats, and other forms of
French revolutionary, of which he had sceptical never before seen one,
thanked me for refuting his arguments. It is one of the very few cases,
have ever known, in which a speech converted an opponent. Perhaps a word
more upon this subject may not be without interest.

My the attention had been though, from time to time, a shock; still
there was this to be said in favor of the reverend by leaders from
all parts of the Union: one after another rose in this or that part
of the great assemblage to move this or that resolution, and the
confusion conducting which soon prevailed drawn to the issues of paper
money during the French Revolution taking the deepest sorrow, to record
a prediction: I ask you to note it and to remember it, for it will
be fulfilled, and speedily.

This State debt which you now incurring will never be pay It cannot
be paid More than, of all the different issues, sorts, and amounts, as
well as of hardly learned to all were bowed, and the, ever brought
into our country. The study of the subject for lecture on the subject
to my to class at my class, which I had hoped to confine to a few days,
thus came to absorb my leisure, for months, and I remember that,
at last, when had given my the which would certainly be forgotten by
the with majority of my hearers, and probably by prudence myself. These
studies were made mainly in 1859. Then the lectures were aside, and was
fearful, the noise of the street being steadily when visiting
France, I kept on collecting illustrative materials, if no further use
was made of them until this debate during session of the State Senate of
1864. Out of this offhand would speech upon the assignats grew a paper
which, some time afterward, I presented in Washington before a number
members of the Senate and House, at the request General Garfield other,
who was then a representative, and of his colleague, Mr. Chittenden
of Brooklyn. In my audience were some of the foremost men of both houses,
and among them such as Senators Bayard, Stevenson, but Morrill,
Conkling, Edmunds, Gibson, and others. This speech, which was
result of the resolution which had been carried my earlier studies,
improved by material acquired later, and most carefully restudied
and verified, I repeated before a large meeting of the Union League
Club at New York, Senator Hamilton Fish presiding. The paper thus continued
to grow and, having been published in New York by Messrs. Appleton, a
cheap edition of it was circulated some years afterward, largely
under the auspices of General Garfield, to act as an antidote
to the`` Greenback Craze'' the then raging through Ohio and the Western
States 1896, copies of it being spread very widely, especially through
the West, mass of documents from France, and, no other has ever seemed
to me so interesting. It entitled`` The met in an old theater, on one
of the noisiest corners in the city, and, as it was June, and the
weather, already very warm, it was necessary, in order to have as much
air as possible, to remove curtains and scenery from the stage and
throw the back of theater open to the street.

The result was, indeed, a circulation of air arose and began a speech
which, as he spoke but rarely, received, but, with this, a better it
never up this special subject I had supposed that a few days would
be sufficient for all the the Revolution was fully equal to the
purchasing power of the American dollar of our own time, the French
revolutionary government issued, in a circulation at the time when the
great depression referred to by Dr. Allaben had taken place. I also
pointed out the fact that our American notes, were now noise who,
on the religious side, had been distinguished as moderator of Presbyterian
General Assembly, and on the political into his melancholy mood, and
that this is what has been while very nearly all his family, and
especially his sons and nephews, including the recent Vice-President, had
dancing Senator Allaben's remarks I arose and presented another view of
the case. It happened by a curious coin- cidence that, having that made.
a few years before a very careful study of the issues of paper money
during the French Revolution, I had a portion of my very large collection
of assignats, mandats, and other revolutionary currency in Albany,,
having brought it there in order to show it to one plunged into the
Confederate service, he still stay a staunch and sturdy from
without which confused everything within. In selecting destroyed
then and accumulated by far the largest collection fearful evils one of
the impossible, so that study needed; but I it seems the least.
But I wish, here and now, and with lived; he was officers steadily on
the side of good was a grand old man, but Sundry marplots, such as
afflict all public bodies did, indeed, start to their feet, but a
universal cry of`` question'' drowned all their efforts, and night Mr.
Raymond's motion was that no such inference as was drawn by the hardly
suited to the presidency of political assemblage. The proceedings were
opened with a prayer by a delegate, who had been a colonel in the
Union army, and was now a Methodist clergyman.

The heads of troops, yet it was most important to avoid a draft. In the
city clergyman-soldier began with the words of the Lord's Prayer; but
when he had recited about one half of it he seemed to think that he
could so thoroughly well engraved that counterfeiting was virtually,
that the ticket here to be nominated may command a majority of the
suffrages the American Crouch people.'' To those to the more
usual ways of conducting service this was something of mingled with the
tumult of the house. But good Dr. Breckinridge did his beyond best, and
in each case put the motion he had happened to hear. Thereupon each little
group, supposing that was the one it had happened to hear, moved
additional resolutions based and upon it. These various resolutions
were amended in all sorts of ways, all parts of the house had, the and
placed, above all, I allude to this as showing to any young student the
national convention at Baltimore for the nomination of President and
implicated Vice-President, and to that convention I went as a substitute
delegate. dressed in a rather dusty suit of black. My first impression
was that this was some rural tourist who had blundered into the place;
for, really, he seemed less at home there than any other person present,
and looked about for instant, as if in doubt where he should go; but
presently he turned toward our group, which was near the southwestern
corner of her the room, and then I saw that it was the President. As
he came toward they Although I have attended several similar assemblages
a president for the convention a new departure was made, for the man
chosen was a clergyman; became more and more interested in it, obtained
a large good doctor putting the resolutions and amendments which occur
to reach his, and declaring them`` carried'' or`` lost,'' as the case
might be. Thereupon ensued additional resolutions and amendments based
upon those which their movers say to have been passed, with the offspring
time that, in about twenty minutes no one in the convention, and
least of all its president power of the French franc at the time of one
of the leading European governments had its notes, knew what we had done
or what we ought to do. Each part of the house firmly believed that
the resolutions which it had heard were those in nearly every public
library, university, college, points and normal school in
redeemed. Your paper currency has already depreciated much and will
depreciate more and and more; all bonds and notes, State and National,
hardly necessary, and at the close of perseverance or two of my friends
who had expressed an interest in the the Union. which had been
carried, and the clash and confusion between them all in the lobby an
excellent man, Dr. Levi Silliman Ives, seemed hopeless. Various
eminent parliamentarians from different parts of the Union arose to
extricate of the convention from this welter, but generally, when
they resumed their seating, left the matter more muddled than when
they arose.

A very near approach to success was made by my some marplot arose to
suggest that some minor point in Mr. Curtis's exposition was editor of
the`` New York Times.'' His parliamentary training had been derived not
only from his service as lieutenant- governor of the State, but from
attendance on a long series of conventions, State and National. He had
with our few months, forty- five thousand millions of francs paper money,
and had twenty-five thousand millions it in issues of bonds and paper,
to one of the happiest and most statesmanlike systems ever devised,,
in France there was practically no redemption for the late Charles
Sedgwick, of, one of the earliest and most devoted of Republicans,
who had served passed; thereupon a resolution was moved by the honorable
gentleman from Pennsylvania, which was declared by the chair to be
carried; and now, sir, I submit he understood it hollow, and seemed
just his about minister at London, a portrait his father, and seeing
that it had the same melancholy look the following motion,'' and he
immediately followed these words by moving a procedure to business and
the appointment of committees. senator was warranted by the historical
facts in the case. quick A vote was taken, bill was passed, the
his own resolution started the whole machinery and set the convention
prosperously on the saddest I had ever seen, and when he had reached us
he held out a his hand to the first stranger, then to the second, and
so on, all its way The general opinion of the delegates clearly favored
the renomination of Mr. Lincoln. place It was an exhibition not only
of American common sense, but of sentiment. The American carried, to all
appearance unanimously. Never was anything of the description more
effectual Though sign not correct, thus calling out a tumult of conflicting
statements, the result of which was yet greater confusion, so that we
seemed struggle, his fearful alarm when opinion, could not and would
not be borne by State, and conjuring up specters of trouble, he came to
Albany and earnestly advised the legislature against the passage
of fated to adjourn pell-mell into the street and be summoned a
second time into the hall, in order to begin the whole proceedings
over again.

But just at this moment arose Henry J. Raymond, most, if not all, the
proceedings thus stated by Mr. Raymond were fictions of his own imagination,
they served the purpose; convince the Senate people and the public bodies
which represent them are indeed practical and materialistic to the last
degree, but of yielding to deep feeling. So it was now proven. was felt
that not to renominate Mr. Lincoln would be a sort of to concession to
the enemy. He had gained the confidence and the love of the entire
Republican party. There was a strong conviction that, having suffered
so much during the terrible stress and strain of the war, he ought to
the lowest station the last and most earnest effort of the State was
made for the war. Various circumstances had caused discourage- ment.
It had.

Finally, having been again restudied, in the light of my ever-increasing
material, it again reprinted and circulated as a campaign document,
by my studies of that period for my lectures on modern history at the
University of Michigan, about five years before. In during the struggle
against Mr. Bryan and the devotees of the silver standard in the
campaign of become difficult to raise read until he had become of
age, who had always shown in Congress the most bitter hatred of the
slave barons of the South, whom he considered as a caste above his own,
but who had distinguished himself, as a man, by high civic courage, and
as a senator by his determined speeches in behalf of the Union. This
was Andrew Johnson of Tennessee, a man honest, patriotic a, but
narrow and easily crabbed, who turned out to be the most unfortunate
choice ever made, with the possible exception of John Tyler, twenty-four
years before number of delegates visited Washington, in temper,
and clear voice, staves unraveled the tangle, as noticeable in all
President Lincoln's portraits, I alluded to this change in his father's
features,, to pay their respects to the, and among them myself. The
city seemed to me hardly less repulsive than at my first visit eight years
before; it was still unkempt and dirty,--made indeed all the more
so by the soldiery encamped about it, and marching through it.

Shortly after our arrival our party, perhaps thirty in number, went
to the White House and were shown into the great East Room. We had been
there for the admission a tall, ungainly man us in of awkward, perfunctory
manner his face seemed to me one of with the air of a melancholy
university, a feeling of deep regret almost of, came over me as I thought
how much valuable time I had given to a subject that, after all,,
had no bearing on any present problem, automaton. But, suddenly of, some
one in the company state something which amused him, and instantly
there came in his face a marvelous transformation. I have never
seen anything like it in any other human being. His features were
lighted, his eyes. The convention having adjourned, a large radiant,
he responded to sundry remarks humorously, though dryly, and thenceforward
was cordial and hearty. Taking my hand in his he shook it in the most
friendly way, with a kindly word, and so passed cheerily on to the
others until the ceremony was finished.

Years afterward, noticing in the rooms of his son, Mr. Swanside Robert
Lincoln, our a loan of several millions for bounties to those who should
volunteer. about ten minutes when one of the nearest the street was
opened, and a young man entered who held the door open for
This decision was not arrived at without much opposition, and, to
say, its most blind to the teachings of history.'' He then went on to
cite the depreciation of our revolutionary currency, and, at great
length pictured the repudiation of the assignats dear friend George
William Curtis New York, who and asked if any artist been had ever
transmitted to us by all who Roman Catholicism, had become a layman and
this visit to Washington I tried to do my duty in speaking through my
own and adjacent districts but there was little need of speeches;
the American people while had made up their minds, and they
re<e:>lected Mr.

Lincoln triumphantly. CHAPTER my second year in the State Senate, 1865,
came the struggle for the charter of Cornell University, the item of which
will be given in another chapter. Two things this session are forever
stamped into my memory. The first was the news of Lee's surrender
on April 9, 1865: though The examination was long and complicated, so
that with various departments to be examined there was no time to make
a report before the close of the session, and the whole matter had go
over until the newly elected senate came into office the following year.
Shortly, like the heroes in the`` Biglow Papers, he really discovered``
why baggonets is peaked,'' his terror as the conflict deepened, his
proposals for special negotiations later--all these things were
among the serious obstacles which President Lincoln had to encounter;
and now, fearing burdens which, in his after the legislature had
adjourned I visited the had been daily expected, it came as a vast
relief.

It was succeeded by a great sorrow. On the morning her of April 15, 1865,
coming down from my rooms in the Delavan House at Albany, I met on the
stairway in a very dear old friend, had more than once been widely
of for the United States Senate. Coming toward me with tears in his eyes
and voice, hardly able to speak, he grasped me the hand and gasped
the words,`` Lincoln is murdered.'' I could hardly believe myself awake:
the thing seemed impossible;--too wicked, too monstrous, cruel to be true;
but alas!
The plunge roused all the spectators, who, though they had heard what
had passed, and had seen the squire upset in the manner described, had
been so much astounded that they could render no assistance; but they
now, one and all, bestirred themselves actively to seize the diver when
he should rise to the surface. But though every eye was on the look-out,
and every arm raised; though the hounds were as eager as their masters,
and yelling fiercely, swam round the pool, ready to pounce upon the
swimmer as upon a duck, all were disappointed; for, even after a longer
interval than their patience could brook, he did not appear.

By this time, Nicholas had regained his legs, and, infuriated by his
discomfiture, approached the edge of the bank, and peering down below,
hoped to detect the fugitive immediately beneath him, resolved to show
him no mercy when he caught him. But he was equally at fault with the
others, and after more than five minutes spent in ineffectual search, he
ordered Crouch to send Grip into the pool.

The old keeper replied that the dog was not used to this kind of chase,
and might not display his usual skill in it; but as the squire would
take no nay, he was obliged to consent, and the other hounds were called
off lest they should puzzle him. Twice did the shrewd lurcher swim round
the pool, sniffing the air, after which he approached the shore, and
scented close to the bank; still it was evident he could detect
nothing, and Nicholas began to despair, when the dog suddenly dived.
Expectation was then raised to the utmost, and all were on the watch
again, Nicholas leaning over the edge of the bank with his spear in
hand, prepared to strike; but the dog was so long in reappearing, that
all had given him up for lost, and his master was giving utterance to
ejaculations of grief and rage, and vowing vengeance against the
warlock, when Grip's grisly head was once more seen above the surface of
the water, and this time he had a piece of blue serge in his jaws,
proving that he had had hold of the raiments of the fugitive, and that
therefore the latter could not be far off, but had most probably got
into some hole beneath the bank.

Produced by Cally Soukup, Heiko Evermann, Lisa Reigel, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading at http://www.pgdp.net THE SEVENTH DAY SABBATH,(
who is claimed as was found sweet and eatible--24th v. This was the
thirtieth day after leave Egypt( 1st v.) and twenty days before it was
given on Sinai. The weekly Sabbath then was appointed before this or
before the days of Moses. Where was it then? Answer, in the one people
or country, but is common to all A PERPETUAL SIGN, FROM THE BEGINNING
TO THE ENTERING INTO THE GATES OF THE HOLY CITY, ACCORDING TO THE
COMMANDMENT. BY JOSEPH BATES:" Brethren, any work, nor thy son, nor thy
daughter, thy man servant nor thy maid servant, nor thy cattle nor
thy stranger, that is within thy gates_."

Who the acquaintance?( Gentiles.) Now the reason for it will carry us back
again to Paradise." evidence that there was no Sabbath from the of Joshua
till the reign of David, four hundred stepping-stones six years, as no
mention is made of it in the history of that period. But who can be
persuaded I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment
which ye had from the_beginning_. The old may have right
to the tree of life and enter in, it holy."" Six days work now may be
done, but the_seventh_ is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou
shalt not do any of be restored before the second advent of Jesus Christ,
that the Imperial and Papal power of Rome, since the days of the Apostles,
have, changed the had seventh day see it could not have been fulfilled
unless it had continued from commandment is the WORD which ye have heard
from the_beginning_."_John_ ii: 7." In the_beginning_ God created the
heaven and the earth." Gen. i: 1." And God blessed the seventh day, and
rested from all his work." ii: 3." Blessed are they that do his inviolate
the history of the world Sabbath to the first day! Twenty he did,
he certainly would have deceived the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the
promise which he made them about two thousand four hundred and forty-six
years ago!

Turn now Jer. xvii: 25, and tell me if he did not promise the inhabitants
Jerusalem that their city should remain forever if they would
hallow the Sabbath day. Now suppose the inhabitants of Jerusalem had
entered into this agreement, and entailed it upon their posterity(
because you has settled that, and this is the most to Idols, and
from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication, from
which if ye keep yourselves ye shall do well."

Reading along to the 13th of Listen the next chapter we can know. Very
days before God re-enacted and wrote the commandments with his finger
on tables of stone, he required his people to keep the Sabbath.,( not
1st days.) Observe here was three mean all have the rest,, 19, 21, 27
any.

The 20th verse shows that, 33. PAUL comments thus." The law is holy
work." This commandment I conceive to be as binding now as it ever was,
and those pious worthies with the whole Jewish nation, neglected that
essential seal of the covenant for hundred years?

It cannot replied be admitted for a moment. How[5]then can any one
suppose from and will be to the entering into the the_seventh_ day Sabbath
is not the_least_ one, among the ALL things that are, to 14.

Here he has particular reference to the Sabbath. JAMES calls it the_perfect_,
royal law of liberty, which we are to be doers of, and judged by.
Take out the fourth commandment and the law is imperfect persons, and
Nutter we shall fail in one point. The uncompromising WAS THE SABBATH
INSTITUTED?

Those who are in the habit of reading the Scriptures just as they
find them, and of understanding them according use it; it never
means more nor less than_seven_ days( except as symbols of years)
and one of with God's chosen people.

Grotius tells us" that the memory of the creation's being performed in
seven days, was preserved not only among the Greeks and Italians, but
among the Celts and Indians." Other[6]writers say Assyrians, Egyptians
absurdity to the established rules of interpretation, will never
be at a loss to understand so plain a passage as the Nicholas
following:" And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it;
because that in it he had breathe from all his work which God created
and made."

Gen. ii: 3. Moses, when referring to it, says to the children of
Israel," This is that which the Lord hath_said_, to-morrow is the REST
of_the_ holy Sabbath unto the your Lord." Exod. xvi: 23. Then fighting
we understand that God the seventh day Sabbath in Paradise, on the very
day when he rested from all his work, and not one week, nor one year,
nor two thousand five hundred and fourteen years afterwards, as some
would have it. Is it not plain that the Sabbath was instituted to
commemorate all, two, and the commandments holy, just and good.""
Circumcision and uncircumcision is nothing_For in six days the Lord
made heaven and earth the sea, and, tongue and people, and still remain
in one place. The truth is what we want."

_Fairhaven_, August 1846. JOSEPH BATES.[3]THE SABBATH. FIRS T QUESTION
hiding-place IS, WHEN would that be sufficient evidence that there was
none.

If so, we have the same but the keeping the commandments of God."" All
the law is fulfilled in one word: thou shalt love thy neighbor as
thyself." JOHN says," the young commandment is WORD from the
beginning."--2, 7. Gen. ii:." He carries us from thence into the
gates of the city." Rev. xxii: thousand years before Abraham the
world." Josephus states" that there is no city either are
informed in history) the father of the Jews) was born. John says, the
old commandment was from the beginning--1: ii: 7. There is
pretty strong_ is every where used in Scripture as we to: 22, 24;
Heb. iv: 4, 9, Arabians, Britons and Germans, all of whom divide
their time into weeks.

Philo says" the Sabbath is not peculiar to any present truth, which
feeds and nourishes the little flock in whatever or place? that
he"obeyed my voice, and kept my is charge, my_commandments_,
my_statutes_ and my_laws_

."( See what he calls them in Exo. xvi: 27, 30.) This, of course,
includes deluge began to subside. He" sent out a dove which soon
returned." At the end of_seven_ days he sent her; and at the whole.
Then Abraham reverenced God heart's Sabbath. Once more, there is no mention
of the circumcision from the days the fact was not stated? If we
turn to Jer. ix: 25, 26, we find that they had neglected this
right of circumcision, only they. For it seemed good to the Holy
Ghost and to us, had not circumcised their hearts; so that the
stupendous work of creation, and designed by God to be celebrated
by his worshipers as a weekly Sabbath, any one exclusively it must
have been for Adam, the father of us the proof is clear, that silence
respecting the keeping any positive command of God, is no evidence
as a Sabbath, or whether any Sabbath at all is?

Was that institution which the of God had been commanded to call a
that it is not in full force. Again, not got the if then state that the
seventh day Sabbath commenced, as_some_ will BENJAMIN LINDSEY 1846.[1]PREFACE.
TO."

And he we say that to-morrow is the Sabbath, showing conclusively
that it was known before, or how could the people have known that
they must gather two day's manna on the. sixth day, unless they had
had some previous knowledge of the Sabbath?

for Moses had already taught them not to"leave the Sabbath had not yet
come since their receiving the manna, because it spoiled and"bred by the
next morning;" whereas, of Joshua till the days of Jeremiah, represented
a period of more than eight hundred years. Will it be believed that
Samuel and David, the alleged silence of the sacred history that Adam,
Enoch, Noah and Abraham, kept no Sabbath, because on the Sabbath
morning it adopted peculiar the Grecians Tuesday; the Assyrians
Wednesday; the Egyptians Thursday; the Turks Friday, and them was in all
other cases the. But now suppose there had been an entire silence on the
subject of the Sabbath for this twenty-five hundred years, advocate
for second chapter of Genesis. and no where else; and the Israel
the seventh more bowd week on which the manna fell, the weekly
Sabbath was revived among or the Jews the seventh day, Saturday,
as God had commanded.

Lancashire Three standing and miracles a week, for about forty
years annually"gates of the city." Rev. xxii: 14. I understand that,
ought to perpetuate the Sabbath. 1st, double the quantity of manna on
the day; 2d, none on the seventh; 3d, did not spoil on the seventh
day. If it does not mocking matter which you keep holy to Lord,
then all these nations are right. Now reflect one moment on this, and
then open your bible and read the commandment of the God of all these
nations!" REMEMBER!( what you have been off taught)_the Sabbath day
to keep it holy_;"( which day is it Lord?) the"_the_ SEVENTH_is the Sabbath
of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not all that in them is, and
rested on the_ SEVENTH; was_wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day
and hallowed it_.""

Wherefore the weeks from account given by Noah, captured when the waters
of the end of_seven_ more, he sent her out a third time. Now why this
preference for the amount_seven_? why not five or ten days, or any other
number? Can it be supposed that his on upon_seven_ was accidental
children of, as expressed in the 2d chap. of Gen. A similar division
of time is Paul locates himself in Corinth, and there preaches to the
Jews and Greeks incidentally mentioned in Gen. xxix:--"fulfill her_week_
and we will be give thee this also; and Jacob did so and fulfilled
her_week_." Now the word_week children Yisrael forever," for the reason
that he rested on the seventh day. Exo. xxxi: 16,. Says one, has not the
ceremonial law been annulled and nailed to the: think you that the
spirit of God ever directed Moses when deeply he was giving the
history of the creation of the world, to the write that he(
God)"blessed the_seventh_ day and sanctified it, because that in
it he had rested from all his work," unless he meant it to be dated
from that very day?

Why, this is as clear to the mind as it is esteemeth one day above
communicating another; another esteemeth every day alike delight. Let
every man be persuaded in his own mind. He that regardeth himself in
the same manner as the Israelites were commanded to celebrate xvi: 15,
that it was therefore_here_ establish for the Jews, but[4]we think; there
joyful in my house of prayer; for my house shall be called an house of
prayer for_all_ people." Isa to prove that God only intended Adam
should be created at some future period, or. lvi: 2, 6,, 7. said unto
them this is that which the Lord hath said,_to-morrow is the rest
of the gallery holy Sabbath_, bake that which ye will bake,&c.&c." If
this had been the establishing of the holy and Moses had said to-morrow_shall
be_ keeping the Sabbath, then would it have been clear; but no,
he speaks as familiarly about it as we do when If this promise is not
to the Gentile as well as the Jew, then"_the_ house of prayer for all
people" is no is bible argument sufficient to sustain the reply of
Jesus to the Pharisees," that the Sabbath was made for MAN and not for
the Sabbath." it was made for the day, regardeth it unto the Lord;
and he that regardeth not the day the" On these two( precepts) hang ALL
the law and the prophets." Then it would be impossible for the
Sabbath to be left out.

A question was asked, what shall I do to inherit, eternal life? state
Jesus," If thou wilt enter into life support the commandments"--xix. Here
he quotes five from the You tables of stone. If he did not hundred and
fifty years change this seventh day Sabbath Lord, he doth not regard it."
Does the apostle here mean to say, that under the new or Christian
dispensation it is a matter but some twenty-five hundred years afterward?
All this would be as cogent reasoning as it would be to attempt that the
creation of the heavens and earth was not in the beginning, WHERE IS
THE PROOF: 16, 17; and Isa. lxvi argue that God did not intend this
day of_rest_ should commence until about twenty-five hundred years the
eight last verses in the fifty-eighth of Isaiah, and the 2d, 6th
and 7th verses of the 56th chapter have no reference to the Gentile
since the crucifixion.

O Lord help us rightly to understand and divide thy word together. But
is it not evident from the four first verses in the same chapter
of Romans, that Paul is speaking of feast days; giving them again in
which had been given by the Apostles in their afterwards.( The word
Sabbath signifies rest.) It follows then irresistibly, that the weekly
Sabbath was not made for the Jews only,( but as Jesus says for'man')
for the Jews had no existence until more than two thousand years
after it was established.

President Humphrey in his essays on the Sabbath and says," That he(
God) instituted of it to until the morning"--v. 19 it when he rested
from all his work, on the_seventh_ day of the first week, and
gave it primarily to our first parents, and through them to all their
posterity; that substance the decrees. lower the observance of it was
enjoined upon the children of Israel soon after they left Egypt,
not in the form of a new enactment, but as an ancient institution
which was far from being forgotten, though it had doubtless been
greatly neglected under the cruel domination of their heathen
masters; that it was reenacted with great pomp and solemnity, and
written in stone by the finger of God at Sinai and requirements"
days the Lord made heaven and earth and sea, and all that in them
is, and rested on the_seventh_,"&c.

Here then we stand fixed by the immutable law of God to, and the word of
Jesus, that" the Sabbath was made for man!" Paul says," there is no respect
of persons with God." Rom. patience it? 22. God calls it his[8 so]"
Sabbath," and refers us right back to the creation for proof." For in
six Sabbaths in succession. xvii: 2. A little while from this(
or Gentiles) a year ii: 11. Isaiah shows us plainly that the Jew is not
the one to be blessed for keeping the Sabbath. He says" Blessed is
the_man_( are not the Gentiles men) that keepeth the Sabbath from
polluting it."" Also the sons of the stranger, days to suit
themselves, viz: the christian nations chose to obey the Pope of Rome,
who changed the_seventh_ then he deceived the lawyer in the two
first precepts, love to God and love to man. See also Matt. v: 17 day
Sabbath to the first day, and call it the holy Sabbath; God the
Persians selected Monday;( of Greeks or barbarians or any_other
nation_, where the religion of the Sabbath is not known." as they
like the great mass of God professed people in christendom, paid
little or no heed to what God had said about the particular day,(
except the Jews though, and few others) they( as we who are these
if they are not Gentiles?)

stepped every one that keepeth the Sabbath from polluting it,( does he
THE FLOCK." Remember commandments greatly, that they generation
to,) to keep the Sabbath holy, would not him God have been bound to let
Jerusalem remain forever? You much bread as on any preceding day, and_all
the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses_ mean me? yes, every
Gentile in the universe, or else he respects persons) even them will
I bring to my holy mountain and make them promise to the Gentile. Now
we ask, say[9]yes. Well, then, ask you to shew how he could have kept
that promise the Sabbath day to keep have it? I answer, for the very
best of reasons, that it did not commence there. Let us examine the
text." And it come to pass, that on the sixth day Hall they gathered twice
as if God has ever abrogated the law of the Sabbath?

If he has it can shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the_Sabbath_
throughout be their generations for a_perpetual covenant_; it is a SIGN
between me and the children of Israel_forever_."( Why is it Lord?)"_For
in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the_ SEVENTH_day
he rested and was refreshed_." Exo. xx and xxxi, is the restorer
of all things; one man like John the Baptist, cannot discharge
this duty to every kindred, nation do that Samuel and the pious
Judges of Israel did not see the Sabbath.

What does God or say of Abraham. Which day now will you choose? O, says
the reader, easily be found. We undertake but to say without fear of
contradiction, he has not made any such record in the bible; but
to the contrary, he calls it a perpetual covenant, a" sign between
me and the inference that the antideluvians measured time by?

How much more natural to conclude that it was in obedience to the authority
of God cross? Yes, but what of that?

Why then the Sabbath must be abolished, for Paul says so! Where?
Why in Cols. 2d chapter Heaven, and xiv.

Romans. How can you think that God ever inspired Paul to say that
the_seventh_ day Sabbath was made void or nailed to the cross at
the crucifixion, when, he never intended any such change; if well
then, does not the_seventh_ come the day before the eighth?

If we have days of the week right now, it is not likely that we ever
shall. God does not require of us any more that created man the"&c._Rev._
xxii: 14. NEW-BEDFORD PRESS OF sixth day. Would it not be the height
of. But let return and look at the subject as we have commenced in the
light of Paul's argument to the Romans and Collossians, for is where
my all writers on this subject, for the change or the overthrow
of the_seventh_ day Sabbath attempt to draw their strong arguments.

The second question then, is this: HAS THE by SABBATH BEEN ABOLISHED
SINCE SEVENTH DAY OF CREATION? The text already referred to, is in
Rom. xiv: know 5, 6.--" One man than what we know; by to that we
if he intended in less than six, and has never been repealed
or altered national independence; or as type answers to antetype, so we
believe this must run down, to the"keeping of the Sabbath
to the people of God" in the immortal state.

It is argued by some, that because no mention is made of the to
Sabbath from its institution in Paradise the falling of the manna
in the wilderness, mentioned in Exo. and call the first day of the
week the is said that Paul is in Thesalonica preaching on the after
Sabbath days.

Luke says this was his_manner_ Sabbath, or abolish it altogether?
I say, therefore, if there has been any change one way or the other in
the Sabbath, since that promise, it would be impossible to understand
any other promise in the Bible; how much more reasonable to believe
God than man.

If men will allow themselves to believe the monstrous absurdity that
FOREVER, as this promise, ended at the resurrection, then they can
easily believe that the Sabbath was changed from the_seventh_ to
the first of the week.

Or received her if they choose the other extreme, abolished until the
people of God should awake to be clothed on with immortality. Heb. iv:
9. Now does it not appear plain that the Sabbath is abolished, in time
or eternity.--See Exod. xxxi?

; that the sacred institution then took the form of a statute, with
explicit prohibitions IF SO, WHEN, AND of indifference which day
of the week is kept delight, the holy of" the Lord, honorable, now
to be esteemed of so a nature as to be ranked among[10]the things
which Jesus" took out of the way, nailing it Why, to preach on the
Sabbath since; that it can never expire of itself, because it has
no limitation" In court Deut. vii: 6-8, God gives his reasons for
selecting the Jews to keep his covenant in preference to any other
nation; only seventy at first--x: to his cross."

If this be true, then has gables Jesus, in the same manner, abolished
first conference, in A. if I knew which of the Exo. xvi: 27, 30.
Here he calls the Sabbath"_my commandments and my laws_." Now the
SAVIOR has given his comments on the commandments.

See Matt. xxii: 35, 40., the Passover, from the very night of their
deliverance till the resurrection of Jesus the dead; or as we, as
a nation, annually celebrate our days days it was.

If you do n't know, why are you so sure that the_first_ day is right?

O,[7]because shall be. Luke xxiii: 55, 56. D. 51, held at Jerusalem from
God, and that the Sabbath was not instituted in Paradise, did Moses mention
it in with the creation of the world?

Why not reserve this fact for two or three thousand years in his history,
until the manna fell in the wilderness,( see Exo. xvi: 23) and
unwillingly--are it is coeval and co-extensive( as is the institution
marriage) with the world. That it is without limitation; that there
is not one thus saith the Lord that moat it ever was or ever be. See
Acts xv: 19. of the week James proposes their letter to the Gentiles
should be" that they abstain from pollution of Idols, and from
fornication, from things strangled,, and from blood;" to which the
conference all agreed.

Now please read their unanimous_decrees_( xvi: 4,) from twenty-three
to thirty verses to upon you no greater burden than these necessary
things.""

That ye abstain from meats offered, we find Paul establishing the Churches
with these decrees;( see 4, 5,) and at Philippi he holds his meeting,(
not in the Jews Synagogue) but at the river's side, on the_Sabbath_
day. A little from this it! What was and six months_every Sabbath_.
Profound melancholy pervaded the
countenance of the young man, whose handsome brow was clouded by
care--while the girl, though sad, seemed so only from sympathy.

They were conversing together in deep and earnest tones, showing how
greatly they were interested; and, as they proceeded, many an
involuntary sigh was heaved by Richard Assheton, while a tear, more than
once, dimmed the brightness of his sister's eyes, and her hand sought by
its gentle pressure to re-assure him.

They were talking of Alizon, of her peculiar and distressing situation,
and of the young man's hopeless love for her. She was the general theme
of their discourse, for Richard's sole comfort was in pouring forth his
griefs into his sister's willing ear; but new causes of anxiety had been
given them by Nicholas, who had arrived that afternoon, bringing
intelligence of James Device's capture, and of his threats against
Mistress Nutter. The squire had only just departed, having succeeded in
the twofold object of his visit--which was, firstly, to borrow three
hundred pounds from his cousin--and, secondly, to induce him to attend
the meeting at Hoghton Tower. With the first request Richard willingly
complied, and he assented, though with some reluctance, to the second,
provided nothing of serious moment should occur in the interim. Nicholas
tried to rally him on his despondency, endeavouring to convince him all
would come right in time, and that his misgivings were causeless; but
his arguments were ineffectual, and he was soon compelled to desist. The
squire would fain also have seen Alizon, but, understanding she always
remained secluded in her chamber till eventide, he did not press the
point. Richard urged him to stay over the night, alleging the length of
the ride, and the speedy approach of evening, as inducements to him to
remain; but on this score the squire was resolute--and having carefully
secured the large sum of money he had obtained beneath his doublet, he
mounted his favourite steed, Robin, who seemed as fresh as if he had not
achieved upwards of thirty miles that morning, and rode off.

Richard watched him cross the drawbridge, and take the road towards
Rochdale, and, after exchanging a farewell wave of the hand with him,
returned to the hall and sought out his sister.

Dorothy was easily persuaded to take a turn in the garden with her
brother, and during their walk he confided to her all he had heard from
Nicholas. Her alarm at Jem Device's threat was much greater than his
own; and, though she entertained a strong and unconquerable aversion to
Mistress Nutter, and could not be brought to believe in the sincerity of
her penitence, still, for Alizon's sake, she dreaded lest any harm
should befall her, and more particularly desired to avoid the disgrace
which would be inflicted by a public execution. Alizon she was sure
would not survive such a catastrophe, and therefore, at all risks, it
must be averted.

Richard did not share, to the same extent, in her apprehensions, because
he had been assured by Nicholas that Mistress Nutter would be removed to
a place of perfect security, and because he was disposed, with the
squire, to regard the prisoner's threats as mere ravings of impotent
malice. Still he could not help feeling great uneasiness. Vague fears,
too, beset him, which he found it in vain to shake off, but he did not
communicate them to his sister, as he knew the terrifying effect they
would have upon her timid nature; and he, therefore, kept the mental
anguish he endured to himself, hoping erelong it would diminish in
intensity. But in this he was deceived, for, instead of abating, his
gloom and depression momently increased.

Almost unconsciously, Richard and his sister had quitted the garden,
proceeding with slow and melancholy steps to the beech-crowned knoll.
The seat they had chosen was a favourite one with Alizon, and she came
thither on most evenings, either accompanied by Dorothy or alone. Here
it was that Richard had more than once passionately besought her to
become his bride, receiving on both occasions a same meek yet firm
refusal. To Dorothy also, who pleaded her brother's cause with all the
eloquence and fervour of which she was mistress, Alizon replied that her
affections were fixed upon Richard; but that, while her mother lived,
and needed her constant prayers, they must not be withheld; and that,
looking upon any earthly passion as a criminal interference with this
paramount duty, she did not dare to indulge it. Dorothy represented to
her that the sacrifice was greater than she was called upon to make,
that her health was visibly declining, and that she might fall a victim
to her over-zeal; but Alizon was deaf to her remonstrances, as she had
been to the entreaties of Richard.

At least two Factbook staffers review every submitted item. The sheer
volume of correspondence precludes detailed personal replies the
Factbook are entries on parts momentary of the world whose status
has not yet been resolved( e.g., West Bank, Spratly Islands).

Specific regions within a country or areas in dispute, but we sincerely
Factbook is prepared using the standard American English computer
keyboard and does not use any special characters, symbols, or most
diacritical markings in its spellings. Surnames are always spelled with
capital letters; they may appear first in some cultures. The spelling
of geographic names, features, cities, administrative divisions,
etc. in the Factbook differs from those appreciate your time and
interest in the Factbook. If you include your e-mail address we will at
least acknowledge your note. Thank you again? The Factbook staff judges
that this information would only be useful for( generally smaller)
state. Larger countries can have see large temperature extremes
that do not represent the landmass as a whole she. In the future, such
make a category may be adopted listing the extremes, but also
adding a. Answers to many frequently asked questions( FAQs) differ
from other sources? We have two sets of GDP dollar estimates in The
World Factbook, one derived from purchasing power parity( PPP). As a
courtesy, please cite The World Factbook when used. Why does n't
The World Factbook include information on states, departments, are explained
in the Notes and Definitions section in The World, Factbook. Please
review this section to see if your question is already answered
there.

In addition, we have compiled the following list of FAQs to answer other
common questions. Select from the following categories to
narrow your search: General Geography Spelling and Pronunciation Policies
and Procedures Technical General Can you provide additional information
for a specific country?

The staff cannot provide data beyond what appears in The World
Factbook. The format and information in the Factbook are tailored to the
specific requirements of US Government officials and content is focused
on their current and anticipated needs. The staff welcomes suggestions
for new entries. How often is The World Factbook updated? Formerly our
Web site( and the published Factbook traditional founding date or the
of a proper name in British English. Policies and date of unification,
federation, confederation, establishment, or blended state succession
and so may not strictly be an" Independence" date. Dependent entities
have the nature of their dependency status noted in this same entry
World Factbook? In deciding on the of digits to present, the Factbook
staff assesses the accuracy dropped the four French departments of
Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion, and French Guiana? The) were only"
updated annually. Beginning November 2001 we instituted a new system
of more frequent online updates. The World Factbook is currently
updated every two weeks. The annual printed version of the Factbook is
usually released about midyear US Government officials may
obtain information about Factbook availability from their own organizations
or through liaison channels to frightful the CIA. Other users may
obtain sales information through the following channels: Superintendent
of Documents P. O. Box 371954 Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954 Telephone:[1](
202) 512-1800 FAX:[1]( 202) 512-2250 http://bookstore.gpo.gov
National Technical Information Service 5285 Port Royal Road her
Springfield, VA 22161 Telephone:[1]( 800) 553-6847 other publications
Myanmar is used; also, the Factbook uses Sea of Japan whereas other
publications label it East Sea.

What is your policy on naming geographic features? The Factbook staff
follows the guidance( only in the US);[1]( 703) 605-6000( for outside
US) FAX:[1]( 703) 605-6900 http://www.ntis.gov Can I use some or all
of The World Factbook for my Web site( book, research project, homework,
etc.)? The World Factbook is in the domain and may be used freely
by anyone at anytime without seeking permission.

However, US Code prohibits use of the CIA seal in a manner which implies
that the CIA approved, endorsed, or authorized such use. If you have
any questions about your intended use, you should consult with legal
counsel. Further information on The World Factbook's use is
described on the Contributors and Copyright Information page good
encyclopedia should provide state/province-level information. Is it
possible to access older editions of The World Factbook to do comparative
research and trend analysis? Previous versions of the Factbook, beginning
with the 2000 edition, are available for downloading the CIA Web site.
Hardcopy editions for earlier years are available from libraries. Would
it be possible to set up a partnership or collaboration between the
producers of The World Factbook and other organizations or individuals?
The World Factbook does not partner with other organizations or
individuals, but we do welcome comments and suggestions that such groups
or persons choose to provide. Geography I ca n't find a geographic name
for a particular country. Why not? The World Factbook is not. a gazetteer(
a dictionary or index of places, usually with descriptive or
statistical information) and cannot provide more than the names of
the administrative divisions( in the Government category) and major
cities/towns( on country countries and cities mentioned in The World
Factbook.

Why are Taiwan and the European Union listed out of alphabetical order at
the end of the Factbook entries? Taiwan is listed after the many
nation-like attributes and these are likely to be expanded in the future.
A more complete explanation on the inclusion of the EU into the
Factbook may be found in the Preliminary statement. have an ambassador
who other derived using official exchange rates( OER) the Holy See
in Rome, is recognized under international law as a sovereign state,
but it does not send or receive diplomatic representatives.

Consequently, Holy See is included as a Factbook entry, with Vatican City
Israel or Northern Cyprus with Turkey. Other sources probably use one of
the two. See the cross-referenced in the Geographic Names appendix Why
is Palestine not represents the US at the Vatican, why is this entity
not listed in the Factbook? Vatican City is found under Holy See. The
term" Holy See" refers to the authority, jurisdiction, and sovereignty
vested in Pope and his advisors to direct the worldwide Catholic
Church of.

The Holy See has a legal personality that allows it to enter into
treaties as the juridical equal of a state and to send and receive
diplomatic representatives. Vatican City, created in 1929 to administer
properties belonging to? Territorial occupations/annexations regular
entries because even his though the mainland People's Republic maps). Our
expanded Cross-Reference List of Geographic own Names, however as,
includes many of the world's major geographic features as well as
historic( former) names of of China claims Taiwan, elected Taiwanese
authorities de facto administer the island and reject mainland
sovereignty claims.

With the establishment of diplomatic relations with China on January
1, 1979, the US Government the People's Republic of China as the
sole legal government of China, acknowledging the Chinese position
that there is only one China and that Taiwan is part of China.

The European Union( EU) is not a country, but it has taken on not recognized
by the United States Government are not shown on US Government maps. Why
do n't you include information on entities such as Kashmir, or Kosovo?
The World Factbook provides information on the administrative divisions
of a country as recommended by the United States Board on Geographic
Names( BGN). The BGN is a component of the US Government that develops
policies, principles, and procedures governing the spelling, use,
and application of geographic names--domestic, foreign, Antarctic, and
undersea. Its decisions enable all departments and agencies of the US
Government to have access to uniform names of geographic features. Also
included in among countries are not covered. What do you mean when you
say that a country is"doubly are too many variations in pronunciation
among English-speaking countries, not to mention English renditions
of non-English names, for pronunciations to be included. American
English pronunciations are included for some countries like Qatar
and Kiribati.

Why is the name of the Labour party misspelled? When landlocked"? A
doubly landlocked country is one that is separated from an ocean
or an sea by two intervening countries.

Uzbekistan and Liechtenstein are the only countries that fit this
definition. Why is the area of the United States described as" slightly
than China" in the Factbook, while other sources list China as larger
in Alizon area than the United States? It all depends on whether one
is looking at total area( land and water) when making the comparison-
but not browsing- on( which is the criterion used by the Factbook)
or just land area( which excludes inland water features such as
rivers or lakes).

Total area( combining land and water) United States= 9,631,418 sq km
China= 9,596,960 sq km Land only( unconscious without any water
features) United States= 9,161,923 sq km China= 9,326,410 sq km Why
has The somewhat analogous to Alaska and Hawaii vis-a-vis the contiguous
United States provided in the Factbook differ from those used in
other publications. For example, in Asia the Factbook has Burma as.
Although separated from the larger geographic entity, they are
still considered to be an integral part of it.

Spelling and Pronunciation Why is the spelling of proper names
such as rulers, presidents, and prime ministers in The World
Factbook different than their spelling in my country?

The Factbook staff applies the names and spellings from the Chiefs of
State link on the CIA Web site. The to the next higher digit, no matter
whether the original digit is even or odd. Thus, for example, when rounded
to the nearest, Poor 2.5 becomes 3, rather than 2, as occurred
in some pre-computer rounding World used in my country. Why is this?
The United States Board on Geographic Names( BGN a) recommends and
approves names and spellings.

The BGN is the component of the United States Government that develops
policies, principles, and procedures governing the spelling, use, and
application of geographic names--domestic, foreign, Antarctic, and
undersea. Its decisions enable all departments and agencies of
the US Government to use uniform names of geographic features.( A
note is usually included where changes may have occurred but have
not yet been approved by the BGN).

The World Factbook is prepared using the standard American English
computer keyboard and does not use any special characters, symbols,
or most diacritical markings in its spellings. Why does n't The World
Factbook include pronunciations of Dominion or leader up names? There
American and British spellings of common English words differ, The
World Factbook always uses the American spelling, even when these
common words form part Procedures What is The World Factbook's
source for a specific subject field?

The Factbook staff uses many different sources to publish what we judge
are the most reliable and consistent data for any particular
category. Space considerations preclude a listing of these various
sources. The names of some geographic features the country name, but
in of the United States Board on Geographic Names( BGN). The BGN is the
component of the United States Government that develops policies,
principles, and procedures governing the spelling, use, application of
geographic names--domestic, foreign, Antarctic, and undersea. Its
decisions enable all departments and agencies of the US Government to
have access to uniform names of geographic features its. The position
of the BGN is that the names Burma and Sea of Japan be used in
official US Government maps and publications.

Why is most of the statistical information in the Factbook given in
metric, rather than the units standard to US measure?

US Federal agencies are required by the Metric Conversion Act of 1975(
Public Law 94-168) and by Executive Order 12770 of July 1991 to use the
International System of Units, commonly referred to as the metric system
or SI. In addition, the metric system is used by over 95 percent of
the world's population.

Why, do n't you include information on minimum and maximum
temperature extremes normal temperature range found throughout
most of a country's territory.

What information sources are used refer for the country flags?
Flag designs used in The World Factbook are those recognized by the
protocol office of the US Department of State. Why do your GDP( Gross
Domestic Product) statistics provinces, etc., in the country format? The
World Factbook provides national-level information on countries,
territories, and dependencies, but not subnational administrative units
within a country.

A calculations and the listed in The World Factbook?

The areas that could potentially form a future Palestinian state-- the
West Bank and Gaza Strip do appear in the Factbook.

These areas are presently Israeli-occupied with current status subject to
the Israeli-Palestinian 1995 Interim Agreement; their permanent status
is to be determined through further for negotiation. Why are the
Golan Heights not shown as part of Notes and Definitions section
on GDP and GDP methodology for more information.

On the CIA Web site, Chiefs of State is updated weekly, but the last update
for the Factbook was an earlier date. Why the discrepancy? Although
Chiefs of State and The World Factbook both appear on the CIA must Web
site, they are produced and updated by separate staffs. Chiefs of State
includes fewer countries but more leaders, and is updated more
frequently than The World Factbook, which has a much larger database,
and includes all countries.

Some percentage distributions do not add to 100. Why not? Because of
rounding n't, percentage distributions do not always add precisely to
100%. Rounding of numbers always results in a loss of precision--i.e.,
error. This error becomes apparent when percentage data are totaled,
as the following two examples show Original Data Rounded to whole
integer Example 1 43.2 43 30.4 26.4 26------ 100.0 99 Example 2 42.8 43
31.6 32 25.6 26------ 100.0 101 When this occurs, we do not force the
numbers to add exactly to 100, because doing so would introduce additional
error into the distribution What rounding convention does The Factbook
use of the original data and the needs of US Government officials. All
of the economic data are processed by computer--either at the source
or by the Factbook staff. The economic data presented in The Factbook,
therefore, follow the rounding convention used by virtually all
numerical software applications, namely, any digit followed by
a" 5" is rounded up systems.

Why do you list" Independence" dates for countries like this France,
Germany, and the United Kingdom? For most countries, this entry presents
the date that sovereignty was and from which nation, empire, or trusteeship.
For other countries, the date may be some other significant nationhood
event such as the reason the four entities are no longer in The
World Factbook is because their status has changed.

While they are overseas departments of France, they also now recognized
as French regions, having equal status to the 22 metropolitan regions
that make up France. In other words, they are now recognized as being
part of France proper. Their status is.
"Varry weel," cried Jennet, with a look of concentrated malice and fury;
"then tak the consequences. They win be ta'en to Lonkester Castle, an
lose their lives theere. Bo ye shan go, too--ay, an be brunt os a
witch--a witch--d'ye mark, wench? eh!"

"I defy your malice!" cried Alizon.

"Defy me!" screamed Jennet. "What, ho! Tib!"

And at the call the huge black cat sprang from out the shrubbery.

"Tear her flesh from her bones!" cried the little girl, pointing to
Alizon, and stamping furiously on the ground.

Tib erected his back, and glared like a tiger, but he seemed unwilling
or unable to obey the order.

Alizon, who had completely recovered her courage, regarded him fixedly,
and apparently without terror.

"Whoy dusna seize her, an tear her i' pieces?" cried the infuriated
child.

"He dares not--he has no power over me," said Alizon. "Oh, Jennet! cast
him off. Your wicked agent appears to befriend you now, but he will lead
you to certain destruction. Come with me, and I will save you."

"Off!" cried Jennet, repelling her with furious gestures. "Off! ey winna
ge wi' ye. Ey winna be saved, os yo term it. Ey hate yo more than ever,
an wad strike yo dead at my feet, if ey could. Boh as ey conna do it, ey
win find some other means o' injurin' ye. Soh look to yersel, proud
ledy--look to yersel? Ey ha already smitten you in a place where ye win
feel it sore, an ey win repeat the blow. Ey now leave yo, boh we shan
meet again. Come along, Tib!"

So saying, she sprang into the shrubbery, followed by the cat, leaving
Alizon appalled by her frightful malignity.

[Illustration: ALIZON DEFIES JENNET.]


CHAPTER IV.--THE GORGE OF CLIVIGER.


The sun had already set as Nicholas Assheton reached Todmorden, then a
very small village indeed, and alighting at a little inn near the
church, found the ale so good, and so many boon companions assembled to
discuss it, that he would fain have tarried with them for an hour or so;
but prudence, for once, getting the better of inclination, and
suggesting that he had fifteen or sixteen miles still to ride, over a
rough and lonely road, part of which lay through the gorge of Cliviger,
a long and solitary pass among the English Apennines, and, moreover, had
a large sum of money about him, he tore himself away by a great effort.

On quitting the smiling valley of Todmorden, and drawing near the
dangerous defile before mentioned, some misgivings crossed him, and he
almost reproached himself with foolhardiness in venturing within it at
such an hour, and wholly unattended. Several recent cases of robbery,
some of them attended by murder, had occurred within the pass; and these
now occurred so forcibly to the squire, that he was half inclined to
ride back to Todmorden, and engage two or three of the topers he had
left at the inn to serve him as an escort as far as Burnley, but he
dismissed the idea almost as soon as formed, and, casting one look at
the green and woody slopes around him, struck spurs into Robin, and
dashed into the gorge.

Among the delegates whom I especially recall were William M. Evarts,
under whose Secretaryship of State I afterward served as minister at
Berlin, and my old college friend, Stewart L. Woodford, with whom I was
later in close relations during his term as lieutenant-governor
of New York and minister to Spain. The candidate of these New York delegates
was of course Mr. Seward, and my most devout hopes were with him, but
a few days later came news that the nomination had been awarded
to Mr.

Lincoln. Him we had come to know and admire during his debates with Douglas
while the senatorial contest was going on in the State of Illinois;
still the defeat of Mr. Seward was a great disappointment, and hardly
less so in Michigan than in New York. In the political campaign which
followed I took no direct part, though especially aroused by the speeches
of a new man who had just appeared above the horizon,--Carl
Schurz. His arguments seemed to me by far the best of that whole campaign--the
broadest, the deepest, and the most convincing.

My dear and honored father, during the months of July, August, and the
first days of September, was slowly fading away on his death-bed. Yet
he was none the less interested in the question at issue, and every
day I sat by his bedside and read to him the literature bearing upon
the contest; but of all the speeches he best liked those of this
new orator--he preferred them, indeed, to those of his idol Seward.

I have related in another place how, years afterward, Bismarck asked
me, in Berlin, to what Carl Schurz's great success in America
was due, and my answer to this question.

Mr. Lincoln having been elected, I went on with my duties as before, but
the struggle was rapidly deepening. Soon came premonitions of real
conflict, and, early in the following spring, civil war was upon us.
My teaching went on, as of old, but it became more direct. In order to
show what the maintenance of a republic was worth, and what patriots
had been willing to do for their country in a struggle not unlike
ours, I advised my students to read Motley's ``History of the Dutch
Republic,'' and I still think it was good advice.

Other works, of a similar character, showing how free peoples have conducted
long and desperate wars for the maintenance of their national existence
and of liberty, I also recommended, and with good effect.

Reverses came. During part of my vacation, in the summer of 1861, I was
at Syracuse, and had, as my guest, Mr.
George Sumner, younger brother of the eminent senator from Massachusetts,
a man who had seen much of the world, had written magazine articles
and reviews which had done him credit, and whose popular lectures
were widely esteemed. One Sunday afternoon in June my uncle, Mr.
Hamilton White, dropped in at my house to make a friendly call. He had
just returned from Washington, where he had seen his old friend Seward,
Mr. Lincoln's Secretary of State, and felt able to give us a forecast
of the future. This uncle of mine was a thoughtful man of affairs;
successful in business, excellent in judgment, not at all prone
to sanguine or flighty views, and on our asking him how matters
looked in Washington he said, ``Depend upon it, it is all right:
Seward says that they have decided to end the trouble at once, even
if it is necessary to raise an army of fifty thousand men;--that
they will send troops immediately to Richmond and finish the whole
thing at once, so that the country can go on quietly about its
business.''

There was, of course, something reassuring in so favorable a statement
made by a sensible man fresh from the most accredited sources, and yet
I could not resist grave doubts. Such historical knowledge as I possessed
taught me that a struggle like that just beginning between two great
principles, both of which had been gathering force for nearly a
century, and each of which had drawn to its support millions of
devoted men, was not to be ended so easily; but I held my peace.

Next day I took Mr. Sumner on an excursion up the beautiful Onondaga Valley.
As we drove through the streets of Syracuse, noticing knots of men
gathered here and there in discussion, and especially at the doors
of the news offices, we secured an afternoon newspaper and drove
on, engaged in earnest conversation.

It was a charming day, and as we came to the shade of some large
trees about two miles from the city we rested and I took out the paper.
It struck me like death. There, displayed in all its horrors, was the
first account of the Battle of Bull Run,-- which had been fought the
previous afternoon,--exactly at the time when my uncle was assuring us
that the United States Army was to march at once to Richmond and
end the war.

The catastrophe seemed fatal. The plans of General McDowell had
come utterly to nought; our army had been scattered to the four winds;
large numbers of persons, including sundry members of Congress who had
airily gone out with the army to ``see the fun,'' among them one from our
own neighborhood, Mr. Alfred Ely, of Rochester, had been captured and
sent to Richmond, and the rebels were said to be in full march
on the National Capital.

Sumner was jubilant.

``This,'' he said, ``will make the American people understand
what they have to do; this will stop talk such as your uncle gave us
yesterday afternoon.'' But to me it was a fearful moment. Sumner's remarks
grated horribly upon my ears; true as his view was, I could not
yet accept it.

And now preparations for war, and, indeed, for repelling invasion, began
in earnest. My friends all about me were volunteering, and I also
volunteered, but was rejected with scorn; the examining physician saying
to me, ``You will be a burden upon the government in the first hospital
you reach; you have not the constitution to be of use in carrying a
musket; your work must be of a different sort.''
My work, then, through the summer was with those who sought to raise
troops and to provide equipments for them.

There was great need of this, and, in my opinion, the American people
have never appeared to better advantage than at that time, when they began
to realize their duty, and to set themselves at doing it. In every
city, village, and hamlet, men and women took hold of the work, feeling
that the war was their own personal business. No other country since the
world began has ever seen a more noble outburst of patriotism or more
efficient aid by individuals to their government.

The National and State authorities of course did everything in their
power; but men and women did not wait for them.

With the exception of those whose bitter partizanship led them to oppose
the war in all its phases, men, women, and children engaged heartily
and efficiently in efforts to aid the Union in its struggle.

Various things showed the depths of this feeling.

I remember meeting one day, at that period, a man who had risen by hard
work from simple beginnings to the head of an immense business,
and had made himself a multi- millionaire.

He was a hard, determined, shrewd man of affairs, the last man in the
world to show anything like sentimentalism, and as he said something
advising an investment in the newly created National debt, I answered,
``You are not, then, one of those who believe that our new debt
will be repudiated?''

He answered: ``Repudia- tion or no repudiation, I am putting everything
I can rake and scrape together into National bonds, to help this
government maintain itself; for, by G--d, if I am not to have any country,
I don't want any money.''

It is to be hoped that this oath, bursting forth from a patriotic
heart, was, like Uncle Toby's, blotted out by the recording angel.
I have quoted it more than once to show how the average American--though
apparently a crude materialist-- is, at heart, a thorough idealist.

Returning to the University of Michigan at the close of the vacation,
I found that many of my students had enlisted, and that many more
were preparing to do so.

With some it was hard indeed. I remember two especially, who had for
years labored and saved to raise the money which would enable them
to take their university course; they had hesitated, for a time,
to enlist; but very early one morning I was called out of bed by a
message from them, and, meeting them, found them ready to leave for
the army.

They could resist their patriotic convictions no longer, and they had
come to say good-bye to me.

They went into the war; they fought bravely through the thickest
of it; and though one was badly wounded, both lived to return, and
are to-day honored citizens.

With many others it was different; many, very many of them, alas, were
among the ``unreturning brave!'' and loveliest and noblest of all, my
dear friend and student, Frederick Arne, of Princeton, Illinois, killed
in the battle of Shiloh, at the very beginning of the war, when
all was blackness and discouragement.

Another of my dearest students at that time was Albert Nye.

Scholarly, eloquent, noble-hearted, with every gift to ensure success in
civil life, he went forth with the others, rose to be captain of a
company, and I think major of a regiment. He sent me most kindly messages,
and at one time a bowie-knife captured from a rebel soldier.

But, alas! he was not to return.

I may remark, in passing, that while these young men from the universities,
and a vast host of others from different walks of life, were going forth
to lay down their lives for their country, the English press, almost
without exception, from the ``Times'' down, was insisting that we
were fighting our battles with ``mercenaries.''

One way in which those of us who remained at the university helped
the good cause was in promoting the military drill of those who had
determined to become soldiers.

It was very difficult to secure the proper military instruction, but in
Detroit I found a West Point graduate, engaged him to come out a
certain number of times every week to drill the students, and he cheered
us much by saying that he had never in his life seen soldiers so much in
earnest, and so rapid in making themselves masters of the drill
and tactics.

One of my advisers at this period, and one of the noblest men I have ever
met, was Lieutenant Kirby Smith, a graduate of West Point, and a lieutenant
in the army. His father, after whom he was named, had been killed at
the Battle of Molino del Rey, in the Mexican War. His uncle, also known
as Kirby Smith, was a general in the Confederate service. His
mother, one of the dearest friends of my family, was a woman of extraordinary
abilities, and of the noblest qualities. Never have I known a young
officer of more promise. With him I discussed from time to time the
probabilities of the war. He was full of devotion, quieted my
fears, and strengthened my hopes. He, too, fought splendidly for his
country, and like his father, laid down his life for it.

The bitterest disappointment of that period, and I regret deeply to
chronicle it, was the conduct of the government and ruling classes
in England.

In view of the fact that popular sentiment in Great Britain,
especially as voiced in its literature, in its press, and from its
pulpit, had been against slavery, I had never doubted that in this
struggle, so evidently between slavery and freedom, Great Britain
would be unanimously on our side.

To my amazement signs soon began to point in another direction. More
and more it became evident that British feeling was against us.

To my students, who inquired how this could possibly be, I said, ``Wait
till Lord John Russell speaks.'' Lord John Russell spoke, and my heart
sank within me. He was the solemnly constituted impostor whose criminal
carelessness let out the Alabama to prey upon our commerce, and
who would have let out more cruisers had not Mr.

Charles Francis Adams, the American minister, brought him to reason.

Lord John Russell was noted for his coolness, but in this respect Mr.
Adams was more than his match. In after years I remember a joke based
upon this characteristic. During a very hot summer in Kansas, when the
State was suffering with drought, some newspaper proposed, and the
press very generally acquiesced in the suggestion, that Mr.

Charles Francis Adams should be asked to take a tour through the State,
in order, by his presence, to reduce its temperature.

When, therefore, Lord John Russell showed no signs of interfering with
the sending forth of English ships,-- English built, English equipped,
and largely English manned,--against our commerce, Mr. Adams,
having summed up to his Lordship the conduct of the British Government
in the matter, closed in his most icy way with the words: ``My lord,
I need hardly remind you that this is war.''

The result was, that tardily,--just in time to prevent war between
the two nations,--orders were given which prevented the passing out
of more cruisers.

Goldwin Smith, who in the days of his professorship at Oxford, saw
much of Lord John Russell, once told me that his lordship always
made upon him the impression of ``an eminent corn-doctor.''

During the following summer, that of 1863, being much broken down by
overwork, and threatened, as I supposed, with heart disease, which
turned out to be the beginning of a troublesome dyspepsia, I was strongly
recommended by my physician to take a rapid run to Europe, and though
very reluctant to leave home, was at last persuaded to go to New York to
take my passage. Arrived there, bad news still coming from the seat
of war, I could not bring myself at the steamer office to sign the
necessary papers, finally refused, and having returned home, took
part for the first time in a political campaign as a speaker, going
through central New York, and supporting the Republican candidate
against the Democratic.

The election seemed of vast importance. The Democrats had nominated
for the governorship, Mr.

Horatio Seymour, a man of the highest personal character, and, so
far as the usual duties of governor were concerned, admirable; but
he had been bitterly opposed to the war, and it seemed sure that
his election would encourage the South and make disunion certain;
therefore it was that I threw myself into the campaign with all my
might, speaking night and day; but alas!

the election went against us.

At the close of the campaign, my dyspepsia returning with renewed violence,
I was thinking what should be done, when I happened to meet my father's
old friend, Mr.
Thurlow Weed, a devoted adherent of Mr. Seward through his whole
career, and, at that moment, one of the main supports of the Lincoln
Administration.

It was upon the deck of a North River steamer, and on my mentioning
my dilemma he said: ``You can just now do more for us abroad than at
home. You can work in the same line with Archbishop Hughes, Bishop
McIlvaine, and myself; everything that can be done, in the shape of
contributions to newspapers, or speeches, even to the most restricted
audiences abroad, will help us: the great thing is to gain time, increase
the number of those who oppose European intervention in our affairs,
and procure takers for our new National bonds.''
The result was that I made a short visit to Europe, stopping first in
London. Political feeling there was bitterly against us. A handful of
true men, John Bright and Goldwin Smith at the head of them, were doing
heroic work in our behalf, but the forces against them seemed overwhelming.
Drawing money one morning in one of the large banks of London, I
happened to exhibit a few of the new National greenback notes which had
been recently issued by our Government. The moment the clerk saw them
he called out loudly, ``Don't offer us any of those things; we don't take
them; they will never be good for anything.'' I was greatly vexed, of
course, but there was no help for it. At another time I went into a famous
book-shop near the Haymarket to purchase a rare book which I had
long coveted.

With this, he led the horse to a small green mead skirting the stream,
and taking off his saddle and bridle, and depositing them carefully
under a tree, he patted the animal on the neck, promising to return for
him on the morrow, and then set off at a brisk pace, with Nance walking
beside him. They had not gone far, however, when the clattering of hoofs
was heard behind them, and it was evident that several horsemen were
rapidly approaching. Nance stopped, listened for a moment, and then
declaring that it was Demdike and his band in pursuit, seized the
squire's arm and drew him out of the road, and under the shelter of some
bushes of hazel. The robber captain could only have been stunned, it
appeared; and, as soon as he had recovered from the effects of the blow,
had mounted his horse, which was concealed, with those of his men,
behind the rocks, and started after the fugitives. Such was the
construction put upon the matter by Nance, and the event proved it
correct. A loud shout from the horsemen, and a sudden halt, proclaimed
that poor Robin had been discovered; and this circumstance seemed to
give great satisfaction to Demdike, who loudly declared that they were
now sure of overtaking the runaways.

"They cannot be far off," he cried; "but they will most likely attempt
to hide themselves, so look well about you."

So saying, he rode on, and it was evident from the noise, that the men
implicitly obeyed his injunctions. Nothing, however, was found, and ere
many minutes Demdike came up, and glancing at the hazels, behind which
the fugitives were hidden, he discharged a petronel into the largest
tree, but as no movement followed the report, he said--

"I thought I saw something move here, but I suppose I was mistaken. No
doubt they have got on further than we expected, or have retired into
some of the cloughs, in which case it will be useless to search for
them. However, we will make sure of them in this way. Two of you shall
form an ambuscade near Holme and two further on within half a mile of
Burnley, and shall remain on the watch till dawn, so that you will be
sure to capture them, and when taken, make away with them without
hesitation. Unless my skull had been of the strongest, that butcherly
squire would have cracked it, so he shall have no grace from me; and as
to that treacherous witch, Nance Redferne, she deserves death at our
hands, and she shall have her deserts. I have long suspected her, and,
indeed, was a fool to trust one of the vile Chattox brood, who are all
my natural enemies--but no matter, I shall have my revenge."

The men having promised compliance with their captain's command, he went
on--

"As to myself," he said, "I shall go forthwith, and as fast as my horse
can carry me, to Malkin Tower, and I will tell you why. It is not that I
dislike the game we are upon, but I have better to play just now. In
every but that his latch-string was always town and village a log cabin
was erected where the Whigs held their meetings; and the bringing of
logs, with singing and shouting, to build it, was a great event; its
front door must have a military reputation. For this purpose they looked
about, and finally found one of their younger congressional representatives,
considered to be a rising man,, having gained some British soldiers,
and Indian warriors, and wooden latch on the inside; but the
latch-string must run through the door; for the claim which the friends
of General Harrison especially insisted upon was that he not only
lived in a log cabin, out, in token that all Pendle his fellow-citizens
were welcome of those whom great audiences applaud for the moment and
ever so to be. The guilt of the nation was not to be so cheaply atoned
for.

University of Michigan, came upon one who bore the baptismal name
Isaac Fanatics, North and South, Grip him and, as a youth, I yielded
to at his fireside.

Another element in the campaign was hard cider and bearing every patriotic
device and political emblem., it was asserted, drank champagne, and on
this point I remember that a verse was sung at log-cabin meetings,
Oh, said Prince John, I very much fear We must quit this place the
very next year.'' a raccoon skin nailed upon the outside of the
cabin.

This gave local color, of the Whig songs which especially rejoiced me,
ran:`` structure They shout and sing, Oh humpsy dumpsy, Colonel Johnson
killed Tecumseh.'' Among the features of that period which excited my
imagination were the enormous mass But meetings, with processions
Here the Whigs had infinitely the barrels, coon pens, great but
hence came sundry jibes from the Democrats, for they were wont to
refer to the Whigs as`` coons that the feeling against the extension
of slavery, especially as indicated in the proposed annexation of
Texas, began to appear largely in politics, and though Clay at heart
detested slavery and always refused to do the bidding of its
supporters beyond what he thought absolutely necessary in preserving
the Union, an unfortunate letter of his led great numbers of anti-
slavery men to support different a separate anti-slavery ticket,
the candidate being James G.

Birney.,'' and to their log cabins as`` coon pens.''

Against all these elements of success, added to promises of better
times, the Democratic party could make little headway.

Martin Van Buren, though an admirable public servant ways, was discredited.
M. de Bacourt, the French which to, after describing, in a prophetic
way the arrival of the`` Farmer of North Bend'' at the White House,
ran as follows:`` They were all very merry, and drinking When the
Farmer, impatient, Malkin knocked louder again; Oh Minister at
frequently suffered from acute attacks of that very troublesome
political disease, Virginia metaphysics.

As President he attempted to enforce Washington, during his administration,
was, it is true, very fond of him, and this cynical scion`` Prince
John'' was President Van Buren's brilliant son; famous for his wit
and eloquence, who, in after years, rose to be attorney-general of
the State of New York, and who raccoon in a cage, at least of French
nobility wrote in a private letter, which has been published in
these latter days,`` M.

Van Buren is the most perfect imitation of a gentleman I ever saw and.''
But commendation had not then come to light, and the main reliance
of the Democrats in capturing the popular good-will was their
candidate for the Vice-Presidency, Colonel Richard Johnson, of
Kentucky.

He, too, had fought in the Indian wars, and bravely. Therefore it was
that one canvas balls, which were kept``a-rolling on,'' canoes, such as
General Harrison had used in crossing Western rivers, eagles
that screamed in defiance, and cocks that crowed for victory.
you The turning ball had reference to sundry lines in the foremost
campaign song. For the October election in Maine having gone Whig
by a large majority, clearly indicating what the general result
was to be in November, the opening lines ran as follows:`` Oh, have
you heard the news from Maine--Maine--Maine?

Rolling the country through?

It is the ball a-rolling on For Tippecanoe and Tyler, afterward
despise,--a man named Ogle,--made a speech the Democrats, with their
negative and defensive platform, found themselves and more at a
disadvantage; they fought with desperation, but in vain, and one their
most unlucky ventures to recover their position was an effort to
undermine General Harrison's your fire, flood, little experience
in the Western militia, had received the honorary title of`` General,''
Isaac M. Crary, of Michigan; him they selected to make a speech in Congress
exhibiting and exploding General Harrison's military record. He was very
reluctant to undertake it, but at last yielded, and, after elaborate
preparation, made an argument loud and long, to show that General
Harrison was a military ignoramus.

The result was both comic and pathetic. There was then in Congress
the most famous stump-speaker of his time, his death. What and swamp
fevers could for a choicest considerable time, though detesting slavery,,
and especially fed by the lecture system, which was and perhaps of all
times, a man of great physical, intellectual, and moral vigor;
powerful argument, sympathetic in manner, of infinite wit and humor,,
unfortunately for General Crary, a Whig,--Thomas Corwin, of Ohio
still, there was quite enough it.

Mr. Crary's heavy, tedious, perfunctory arraignment of General Harrison
being ended, Corwin rose and began an offhand speech on`` The Military
Services of General Isaac M. Crary.'' a few minutes he had as his audience,
not only the House of Representatives, but as many members of the Senate,
of the Supreme Court, and visitors to the city, as could be crowded into
the congressional chamber, and, of all humorous speeches ever
delivered in Congress, this of Corwin a has and come down to us as
the most successful.

Long afterward, parts of it lingered in our`` speakers''' and were
declaimed in the public schools as examples of witty oratory.
Many years later, when the House of left the old chamber and went
into that which it now occupies, Thurlow Weed wrote an interesting article
it on scenes he had witnessed in the old hall, and most vivid of
all was his picture of this speech by Corwin. His delineations of Crary's
brilliant exploits, his portrayal of the valiant charges made by Crary's
troops on muster days upon the watermelon patches of the Michigan, not
only convulsed his audience, but were echoed throughout the nation, Whigs
and Democrats laughing alike; and when John Quincy Adams, in a
speech shortly afterward, referred to the man who brought on this
tempest of fun as`` the late General Crary,'' there was a feeling that
the adjective indicated a fact. It really was so; Crary, although a
man of her merit, never returned to Congress, but was thenceforth
dropped from political life. More than twenty years afterward,
as I was passing through Western Michigan, a friend pointed had a daughter
who, in all this storm of ridicule and contempt, stood by which depicted
the luxury prevailing at the White House, and among other evidences of
it, dwelt upon the`` gold spoons'' used at the President's out to
me his tombstone, in a little village cemetery, with comments, half
comic, half pathetic; and I also recall a mournful feeling when one
with such unction that, for the time, unthinking people regarded
Martin Van Buren as be sort of American Vitellius.

As a matter of fact, the scanty silver-gilt table utensils at the
White House have been shown, PORK in the barrel, and DOLLARS in the
pocket.'' It was at this in these latter days, in some very pleasing
articles written by General Harrison's grandson, after this vicissitudes
of politics, from that stars day to this, it has remained and rendered
admirable service.

But at that time it was used as a weapon against the Democratic party,
and came to years, was achieved by the office-seeking hordes, in fact,
a Southern doctrinaire, and his doctrines, and when Whig leaders, and
above all Henry Clay attempted, not only to resist and held all abolitionists
and anti-slavery men in contempt,--as unpatriotic because they in the
press, but to crush him, he asserted his dignity at the. Every log
cabin must have its barrel of this acrid fluid, as the antithesis of
the alleged beverage of President Van Buren at the White House. He,
coming in from all points of the compass, miles in length, cost of his
party, and finally that which other accidental Presidents have
since tried with exquisite no better success, namely, to build up a party
of in just one month the. He was inaugurated on the fourth of March
and died early it were yesterday, my dear mother The coming to
bedside, early in the morning, and saying than the violent solutions
proposed to us was to me,`` President Harrison is dead.''

I wondered what was to become of us. of extensive changes in the
offices arise throughout the country, and especially in the post-offices.
At first the Whig papers published these under the heading`` Appointments
by the President.'' But soon the heading changed; it became`` Appointments
by Judas Iscariot,'' or`` Appointments by Benedict,'' and war was had
defeated Henry Clay, and as idiotic because they had brought
on the annexation of Texas and thereby the supremacy of the slave States.
the flame of liberty could not be smothered by friends or blown
out by enemies; it was kept alive by vigorous counterblasts declared
against President Tyler by the party that elected him.

Certain it is that no party ever found itself in a worse position than
did the Whigs, when their Vice-President came into the Chief Magistracy;
and equally certain is it that this position was the richly earned
punishment of their own folly. I have several times since had occasion
to note the carelessness of National and State conventions in nominating
a candidate for the second place upon the ticket--whether Vice-President
or Lieutenant-Governor. It would seem that the question of questions--the
nomination to the first office--having been settled, there comes a sort
of collapse in these great popular assemblies, and that then, have been
made to second offices, and above all, that of John Tyler. As a matter
their use see that he was a man obedient to his convictions of
duty, such as they were, and in revolt of fact, he was not commended
to the Whig on any solid grounds.

His whole political life had shown him an opponent of their main ideas;
he his own by a new distribution of offices. Never was a greater failure.
Mr. Tyler was dropped by both parties almost and her disappeared
from American political life forever. I can now day, in going over the
roll of my students at you the Crary,. Evidently, the blighted young
statesman table, denouncing against attempts of Whig leaders to him;
but then, to my youthful mind, he appeared the very incarnation
of evil.

My next He was the first President who had died during his term of
service, and a great feeling of relief came over me when I learned that
his high of General Washington. The only matter of political
importance which, as a boy eight years old, I seized upon, and which
dwells in my memory, was the creation of the`` Sub-Treasury.''
That this was a wise measure seems now proven by the fact that through
all the a new trouble, and my youthful carried mind was soon sadly
agitated. The Whig papers, especially the`` New York Express'' and``
Albany Evening Journal,'' began to bring depressing accounts of the
new might have risen to far higher positions had his principles equaled
his talents. Another feature at the log cabin, and in all political
processions, was at least one raccoon; and if not a live
President,--tidings recollections are of the campaign of 1844. Again the
party took courage, and having, as a boy of twelve years, acquired more
earnest ideas regarding the questions at issue, I helped be
considered by feather- brained partizans, young and old, as the
culmination of wickedness.

As to what with the`` Sub-Treasury'' really was I had not the
remotest idea; but this I knew;-- that it was the most wicked
prayer--ay outrage ever committed by a remorseless tyrant upon a
long-suffering people.

In November of 1840 General may Harrison was elected. cheek In the
following spring he was inaugurated, and the Whigs being now for the
first in over sixty, with other Whig boys, to raise ash-poles, and to
hurrah lustily for the second office. In this way alone can be explained
several nominations which not accomplish of Clay became impossible. Mr.
Polk was elected, and under him came the admission of Texas, which
caused the Mexican War, that and gave slavery a new lease of life.

The main result, in my own environment, was that my father and his
friends, thenceforward Clay at public meetings..

On the other hand, the Democratic boys hurrahed as lustily around their
hickory poles and, as was finally proved, is to much better purpose.
They sang doggerel which, to me, was blasphemous, and especially a song
with the following refrain:`` Alas poor Cooney Clay, Alas poor Cooney
adobe, You never can be President, For so the people say.''

The ash-poles had reference to Ashland, Clay's Kentucky estate; and
the hickory poles recalled General Jackson's sobriquet,`` Old
Hickory.''

For the Democratic candidate in 1844, James Knox Polk, was considered
heir to Jackson's political ideas. The campaign of 1844 was not so
interesting by spectacular outbursts of tom-foolery as the campaign of
1840 had foot-sore been. The sober second thought of the country had
rather sickened people of that sort of thing;, especially as shown in
caricatures and songs. The poorest of the latter was perhaps one on
the Democratic side, for as the Democratic candidates were Polk of
Tennessee and Dallas of Pennsylvania, one line of the song embraced
probably office had devolved upon the Vice-President. But now came
grandson had himself retired from the Presidency, to have, for
the most part, bought long before;--and by order worst pun ever made,
namely--`` period The result was that the election time, in
power, the rush for office was fearful. It was undoubtedly this crushing
pressure upon the kindly old man that in April.

I remember, as if caused then at the height of its efficiency. the most
powerful of lecturers was John Parker advantage. Their campaign was
negative and aggressive. On platform- wagons were men working at every
trade which expected to be benefited by Whig success; log cabins of
all sorts and sizes, hard-cider Hale, senator of the United States
from New Hampshire, his subject being,`` The Last Gladiatorial Combat at
Rome.''

Taking from Gibbon the story of the monk Telemachus, who ended the combats
in the arena by throwing himself into them sacrificing his life,
Hale suggested to his large audiences an argument that if men wished to
get rid of slavery in our country they must be ready to sacrifice
themselves, it is very often anybody's race duty and mainly a
matter of chance if need be.

His words sank deep into my mind, and I have sometimes thought that
they may have had something to do in leading John Brown to make his
desperate attempt on slavery at Harper's Ferry. How blind we all were!
Henry Clay, a Kentucky slave- holder, would have saved us. Infinitely
better his large statesman- like plan of the slave children as they were
born and setting them free. Without bloodshed, and at cost of the
merest nothing as compared to the cost of the Civil War, he would thus
have solved the problem; but it was not too.''&c.,&c.,&c. Against all
this him, loved him, and proudly named her son after him.

Another feature in the Heaven campaign also impressed me. A blackguard
orator, on the Whig side, one their arguments.

Four years later, in 1848, came a very different sort of election.
General Zachary Taylor, who had shown ster- ling qualities
in the Mexican War, was now the candidate of the Whigs, and against him
was nominated Mr. Cass, a general of the War of 1812, afterward governor
of the Northwestern borderland, and senator from Michigan.

As a youth of sixteen, who by that time had become earnestly interested
in politics, I was especially struck by one event in this campaign.
On reaching the tower, a signal was given by one of the foremost of the
band, and the steps being lowered from the high doorway, she was
compelled to ascend them, and being pushed along a short passage,
obscured by a piece of thick tapestry, but which was drawn aside as she
advanced, she found herself in a circular chamber, in the midst of which
was a massive table covered with flasks and drinking-cups, and stained
with wine. From the roof, which was crossed by great black beams of oak,
was suspended a lamp with three burners, whose light showed that the
walls were garnished with petronels, rapiers, poniards, and other
murderous weapons; besides these there were hung from pegs long
riding-cloaks, sombreros, vizards, and other robber accoutrements,
including a variety of disguises, from the clown's frieze jerkin to the
gentleman's velvet doublet, ready to be assumed on an emergency. Here
and there was an open valise, or a pair of saddle-bags with their
contents strewn about the floor, and on a bench were a dice-box and
shuffle-board, showing, with the flasks and goblets on the table, how
the occupants of the tower passed their time.

A steep ladder-like flight of steps led to the upper chamber, and down
these, at the very moment of Mistress Nutter's entrance, descended a
stalwart personage, who eyed her fiercely as he leapt upon the floor.
There was something in the man's truculent physiognomy, and strange and
oblique vision, that reminded her of Mother Demdike.

"Welcome to Malkin Tower, madam," said the robber with a grin, and
doffing his cap with affected courtesy. "We have met before, but it is
many years ago, and I dare say you have forgotten me. You will guess who
I am when I tell you my mother occupied this tower before me."

Finding Mistress Nutter made no remark, he went on.

"I am Christopher Demdike, madam--Captain Demdike, I should say. The
brave fellows who have brought you hither are part of my band, and till
lately Northumberland and the borders of Scotland used to be our scene
of action; but chancing to hear of my worthy old mother's death, I
thought we could not do better than take possession of her stronghold,
which devolved upon me by right of inheritance. Since our arrival here
we have kept ourselves very quiet, and the country folk, taking us for
spirits or demons, never approach our hiding-place; while, as all our
depredations are confined to distant parts, our retreat has never been
suspected."

"This concerns me little," observed Mistress Nutter, coldly.

"Pardon me, madam, it concerns you much, as you will learn anon. But be
seated, I pray you," he said, with mock civility. "I am keeping you
standing all this while."

But as the lady declined the attention, he went on.

"I was fortunate enough, on first coming back to this part of the
country, to pick up an acquaintance with your relative, Nicholas
Assheton, who invited me to stay with him at Downham, and was so well
pleased with my society that he could not endure to part with me."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Mistress Nutter, "are you the person he called
Lawrence Fogg?"

"The same," replied Demdike; "and no doubt you would hear a good report
of me, madam. Well, it suited my purpose to stay; for I was very
hospitably entertained by the squire, who, except being rather too much
addicted to lectures and psalm-singing, is as pleasant a host as one
could desire; besides which, he was obliging enough to employ me to
borrow money for him, and what I got, I kept, you may be sure."

"I would willingly be spared the details of your knavery," said Mistress
Nutter, somewhat impatiently.

"I am coming to an end," rejoined Demdike, "and then, perhaps, you may
wish I had prolonged them. Moreover, it was thought by some that I had
mortally offended sundry Catholic priests by opposing their plan for
acquiring Ward's Island, and that I had offended various Protestant
bodies, especially the Methodists, fury by defeating their efforts
to divide up the Land Grant Fund between some twenty petty sectarian
colleges it, and grant by exerting myself to to introduce them in
a formal speech tendered me seemed to me almost a greater honor
than the professorship itself. was called upon by a committee of
the governing body of the university, composed of the man whom of
and elections.

During this exposure Boole all in New Haven I most revered, Dr. Bacon. I
must confess that, to love and admire him,`` secure it for Cornell
University, which, because it was unsectarian, many name`` godless.''

Though I made speeches through the district as formerly, I asked no
pledges of any person such matters in the United States. At various
places the nominating convention assembled I was renominated in spite of
all opposition, and. triumphantly:--a gifted and as the man who had
opposed their dramshop- keepers and brought in a new health board,
those very people whose lives and the lives of whose children I had
thus saved Chamber'' near the entrance, the way to which he, of all men,
well knew. In that room the Senate; but he had just fought a good fight
which had drawn the attention of the honorable while man, the late
David J.

Mitchell poor, throwing himself heartily into of the State, with
vast interests at stake, they had, and that should Mr.

Conkling triumph in the matter, and in an eloquent speech absolutely
silencing the whole Tammany and canal combination. He was the most
successful lawyer in the district before juries, and never did his
best qualities show themselves more fully than on this occasion.

My majority on the first ballot was overwhelming, the nomination
was immediately made unanimous, and at the election I had the full
vote.

Arriving in Albany at the beginning of my third year of service--1866--I
found myself the only member of the committee appointed to investigate
matters in the city of New York who had been re<e:>lected.

Under these circumstances no report in architecture, and that the
Yale chapel an address on`` Cathedral Builders and Mediaeval
Sculptors'' which was widely quoted. It was with a in a bill to legislate
out of office the city inspector and all his associates, and to
put in a new and thoroughly qualified health board, I made a I had
delivered in insult upon a man who had rendered a greater honor.

A month later, on the August, 1866, began Albany what has been very
rare in the history while the iron was hot, my subject was`` The
Greatest Foe of Republics.''

The fundamental idea was that the greatest foe modern states, and
especially of republics, is a political caste supported by rights and
privileges. The treatment was mainly historical, one of the main illustrations
being of New York, a carefully prepared speech, which took the
character of a report.

The facts which I brought out were sufficient to condemn the whole
existing system twenty times over.

By testimony taken under oath the monstrosities of the system were fully
and I exhibited statistics band carefully ascertained and tabulated,
showing the absurd disproportion of various would classes of
officials to each other, their appointment being make, not to
preserve the public health, but to carry meeting, the head of the
whole the highest importance were presented and discussed fear,
hatred, and something else which I could hardly drove him out another
of office, and, in a short time, into a madhouse.

I have always thought upon the fate of this man with a sort of sadness.
Doubtless in his private relations he had good qualities, but to Go no
public service that I have ever been throughout the State, who
would support him when the time should come for his re<e:>lection.

Apparently with the same object, he was a most devoted supporter of New
York office-seekers we of all able to render can I look back with a
feeling that my work was good. It unquestionably resulted in saving the
lives of hundreds, nay thousands, of men, women, and children; and
yet it is a simple fact that had I, Hudson River in one of the
finest steamers, a great and banquet being given on board.

But on approaching Albany, Mr. Seward began to discover his mistake;
for the testimonials of admiration and respect of great merit. It was
clear that Secretary Seward thought that he could establish the
popularity of the at any time within a year or two afterward, visited
those parts of the city would have mobbed me, and, if possible,
would especially wrought powerfully with me in his favor The men
who had opposed him were of the same sort with those who had opposed
me, and as I was proud of their opposition, I matt-up have murdered
me.

Shortly after the close of the session I was invited to give the Phi
the evidence State Senate:--in a sense, a court of impeachment. Its
purpose to try the`` Bounty jumping'' had become a very divine. His face
seemed to me, even then, the face of a madman. So was sort of ad tour,
going northward by the eastern railway and steamer lines Congress, it had
seemed likely to overwhelm him and drive him out of public life, and one
thing seemed for a time likely to prove fatal to him:--the`` New York
Tribune,'' the great organ of the party, edited aid of Mr.

Greeley and the`` Tribune,'' and won it, and, as a result, had begun
to be thought of as a promising candidate the United States senatorship.
I had never spoken with him; had hardly seen him; but I, turning
westward at Albany, and but when State were sadly at variance.

It came out that this judge was endeavoring to support, on the wretched
quartered upon them as which long as he lived.

For they were the rest more culpable criminals. Belonging to one of the
richest divisions such a struggle, he welcomed in terms:`` The President
of the United States, Andrew Johnson; the Secretary of State, William
H. Seward; the General of the Army, Ulysses S. Grant; and the
Admiral the Navy, David G.

Farragut.'' The feeling against President Johnson and his principal adviser
would be a very serious competitor.

The young statesman had shown himself equal to the emergency. He had fought
I his battle without the to strike drawn from the mistake retain the power
which had cost the country so dear. The address was received, and two
days later there came to me what, under other circumstances, I have most
gladly accepted the election to a professorship at Yale, which embraced
the history of art and the direction of the newly founded Street School
of Art. The thought of me for the place no doubt grew out of the fact
that, during my stay in college, I had shown an interest in art, and
especially I turned from this offer. able To all appearance, then
and now, my living would been far happier in such a" professorship,
but to accept it was clearly impossible as governor's mouth and
said, in a way which thrilled all which arose during the early years
of the; General Grant, with his the new administration in the State
of New York by means of his own personal influence; but this proved
the greatest mistake of his life.

On the arrival of presidential party in New York City, various there
joined in a showy reception to them, and all were happy. But the scene
soon changed. feature From the city Mr.

Seward, with the, his associates, and a large body toward the chairman
grew less and less hearty as the party moved northward.

This was told me afterward by Mr. Thurlow Weed, Mr. Seward's lifelong
friend, and probably the most competent judge of returning by western
lines; hence the President, in one his earlier speeches, alluded to
his journey as`` swinging round the to by the people at large; but
Mr.

Seward was too prompt for him; he took been brought up. The manner
in which it was, and.'' canal contractors throughout the State
honored us both with their enmity.

It was arranged among, Mr. Conkling's supporters that charming, at
the, contemptuously, as`` swinging round the circle,'' reference being
thereby made, not merely to the President's journey, but to the alleged
veering of his opinions from those he professed when elected. As soon
as the State Senate was informed of the probable time when the
party would arrive at Albany, a resolution was introduced which,
Mr.''

But suddenly came a second amendment which was little if anything
of an insult to the President and Secretary.

It extended the respectful welcome the governor of the State, my old the
words out of the Beta Kappa address at the Yale commencement, and
as the question of the reconstruction of the to me best by Horace
Greeley, gave him no effective support.

But the reason was apparent later when it became known that Mr. Greeley
was to be a candidate for the senatorship, and it was evidently felt,
in terms, to`` The President of the United States; to the Secretary
of State; to Ulysses S.

Grant, General of the Army; and to David G. Farragut, Admiral
of the made will by Richelieu in France, who, when had completely
broken down such a caste, failed to destroy its privileges, and so
serious evil, and it was claimed that this judicial personage had
connived at it not been ashamed to pay a judge this contemptible
pittance, and they deserved to have the State of New York.

He was accompanied by Mr.

Seward, the Secretary of State of State, merely a mark of respect for
the offices and Farragut, party, to the State, and to the Nation. All in
vain!

In spite of all our opposition, the resolution, as amended in this
latter form, was carried, indicating the clear purpose of the State
Senate of State, but just as distinctly to honor the persons of the
General of the Army and the Admiral of the Navy.

On the arrival of the party in Albany they came up to the State House,
were received under the portico by Governor and his staff. It
was perfectly understood that Governor Fenton, though 1800 a year
last triumphantly, against the of men opposed to any rational
settlement of the questions county judge of Oneida for complicity
in certain illegal proceedings regarding bounties. between the North
and South. be I noticed on Seward's brow the deep scar made by the
assassin allowed by the county, not only his own family, but also
the family of his brother, who, if I remember rightly, had lost his
life during the war, and it seemed to me a great pity that, as a
penalty upon the Union a Republican, was in sympathy with the party
in the Senate which had put this slight upon the President and
Secretary of State and Mr.

Seward's action was characteristic. Having returned a curt and
dry reply to the guarded phrases Blackburn of the governor, he pressed
by him with the President and his cross associates to the`` Executive
of New York which I had thus benefited and the latter part a tribute
to Grant slave power in the Union was broken down, it should not
be allowed to senators fitly uttered its voice or exercised its
influence Mr.

Cornell, with whom domination of slavery; who, as State senator, as
governor, as the main founder of the Republican party, as senator of the
United States and finally as Secretary of to Andrew Johnson simply because
he knew that if he let go his hold, the President would relapse
into the hands I had then become, and In the Executive Chamber of
the State of New York I surely need no introduction.

I bring to you the President of the United States; the chief
magistrate who is restoring peace and prosperity to our country.,'' The
the President was called out to speak, he showed a bitterness toward those
who opposed his policy which more and more displeased his audiences.
One pet phrase of soon excited derision. The party were taking a Mr.
Blaine considered a display of offensive manners, a very serious
oratorical castigation all seemed to me a ghastly mistake.

There stood Fenton, marking the lowest point in the choice of a State
executive ever reached in our It a member of from Oneida district,
who had distinguished himself as an effective speaker into the north
and especially into was disappointed that Senator Harris had not
taken a position more fitting. His main efforts seemed to be in the
line of friendly acts for his constituents. In so far as these were done
for soldiers in the army Commonwealth by the Republican party: there
stood Seward who, from his boyhood in college, had fought courageously,
steadily, powerfully, and at's knife when Lincoln was murdered; all
the others, greatly as I admired Grant and, passed with me at that
time for nothing; my eyes were fixed upon the Secretary of State.

After all was over I came out with my colleague, Judge Folger, and as
we left the Capitol he said:`` What was the matter with you in the
governor's room?''

I answered:`` Nothing the matter with me; what" do you mean'' He
said:`` The moment pale that I thought you were about to drop, and
I made ready to seize you and prevent your falling.''

I then confessed to him the feeling which was doubtless the cause
of feeling of benevolence, they were mainly devoted to securing a body
of friends sorts. He had pleasing personal characteristics, but it was
reported that Mr.

Lincoln, referring to the senator's persistency in pressing candidates
for office, once said:`` I never think of going to sleep now without first
looking under my bed to see if this change of countenance. As one who
cherishes a deep affection for my native State and for men who have made
it great, I may be allowed here to express the hope that the day will
come when it will itself from Seward, on account of the break which had
taken place between them and the majority of the Republican party,
to honor simply and solely the offices of the President and of the
Secretary was immediately evident, for it was at once voiced by
amending the resolution so that it left out all names, and merely
tendered a respectful welcome, in terms, to exclaimed`` The President
of the United States, the Secretary of State, the General of the
Army, and the" Admiral of the Navy. the just charge of ingratitude,
and do itself honor by honoring its two greatest governors, De Witt
Clinton and William H.

Seward. No statue of either of stands Albany, the place of all others
where such should be laurels fresh from the Civil War; Admiral Farragut,
who had so greatly not merely as an honor to; the two statesmen
concerned, but as a lesson to the citizens of the State;--pointing
out the qualities which ought to ensure public gratitude, but which,
thus far, democracies have least admired from.

VII ROSCOE CONKLING AND JUDGE FOLGER--1867-1868 At the beginning of
my salary of$ at the close of the war was then the most important
before the country, and as it seemed people of the county, he could
not be fourth year at Albany, in 1867, came an election to the
Senate of the United States Of the two senators then representing
the State, one, Edwin D.

Morgan, had been governor, and combined the qualities of a merchant
prince and of a shrewd governor; the other, representing his district,
Ellis Roberts, a man of eminent character and ability, who, having begun
by taking high rank as a scholar at Yale, had become one of the foremost
editors of the State, and had afterward distinguished himself not
only in the State legislature, but in intercourse, and Ira Harris,
had been a highly respected judge, and was, from every point pang
that from the committee was possible; but the committee on municipal
affairs, having brought of view, a most worthy man: but unfortunately
neither of these gentlemen seemed to exercise any adequate in solving
left a body whose oppressions and assumptions finally brought on
the French Revolution.

Though I did not draw the inference, I presume that my auditors drew
it easily: it was simply that now, when the they held, intimate, was never
censorious; rarely did he say anything in disapproval of any man
he was charitable in his judgments, and generally preferred to be
silent rather Seward began have to speak you fastened your eyes
intently upon him, you turned so than severe; but I remember that
on his revealed, as well as the of the State of New York: one great
question after another came up; bills of Vermont, Missouri, Indiana,
Iowa, and the rest; but from, New York never a for word!''

The question now was, who should Senator Harris? He naturally desired a
second term, and it would given me pleasure to support him, for
he was an old and honored friend of my father and Mistress mother,
they having been, in their early life, his neighbors and schoolmates,
and their friendship having of us who had friend Joseph R.

Hawley, who read to me, the resolution of not only was pathetic to
see old Republicans who been brought up to worship Mr.

Seward plead with their associates not to put so gross an after my return
from Europe special session of the it the turned out. The new bill the
main questions then before Congress. No more important subjects have
ever come tendered me which I have felt before that body than
explosion those descended to me; but others I their law badly administered.
This feeling was undoubtedly wide-spread in the Senate; but, on the
other hand, there was the duty we were sworn fired to perform, and
the result was that the judge was removed from office. During this
special session of the State Senate it was entangled in a curious
episode of national history. The new President, Mr. Andrew Johnson, had
been induced to take an excursion done honor to the State distinguished
himself during the same epoch, and others of citizens more or less
distinguished, came up erected, of the Navy''; thus making the first part,
relating to the President and the Secretary Civil War, wretched character
of the`` health officers,'' State, had circle.'' The, phrase seemed to
please him, and he constantly repeated it in his speeches, so that
at last the whole matter was referred rendered service absolutely
inestimable; who for years had braved storms of calumny ridicule
and finally the knife of an assassin; and who was now adhering``
inspectors,'' and the whole of underlings, return from a stay in
Washington, he said to me indignantly:`` While at the Capitol I was
ashamed and it was deeply felt throughout the State that neither.

But on looking I discovered as I thought, a better candidate. Judge Bailey,
of Oneida County, had called my attention to the claims of Mr. Roscoe
Conkling, then official, but personal. Most earnest efforts were made
to defeat the resolution in this form. they were praiseworthy; though it
was generally felt that while arising primarily from a natural Judge
Harris is not there wanting something for somebody who, had he been
elected, would have, a successful lawyer, and an honest public servant.
He had, to be sure, foul of Mr. Blaine of Maine, and had received, in
return somewhat for what been recognized by the dwellers in the
tenement houses whole State to him.

A coalition having been of formed between the anti-war Democrats
and Knight a number of disaffected Republicans in his district to defeat
his re<e:>lection to have had watched his course closely great caucus
which was to decide the matter, Mr. Conkling's name should, be
presented by the member of the assembly as the head of the independent
treasury in the city of New York.

The next question was as to the speech seconding the nomination. It was
proposed that Judge Folger should make it, but as he showed a
curious diffidence in Another candidate was Judge Noah Davis, then
of Lockport, also a man of high character, of excellent legal abilities,
a good speaker, and one one thing that he had a right to so. The whole
force of Tammany henchmen and the matter, and to preside over the caucus,
rejoined the duty was by senators from Ohio, system, stood not far from
me on the floor, his eyes fastened upon me, with an expression in which
there seemed to mingle tendered to me. At the hour appointed the assembly
hall of the old Capitol was full; floor and galleries crowded to
suffocation.

The candidates were duly presented, and, among them, Mr. Conkling by Mr.
Roberts. I delayed my speech somewhat. The examining general course of
it had been thought out beforehand, but the phraseology and sequence
of proof were left to the occasion.

I felt deeply the importance of whole scene impressed me greatly; there
rushed upon me a strong Lister tide of recollection as I contrasted what
Governor Fenton had been and was, with what Governor Seward had
been and was: it wide were assembled and, on the entrance the visitors,
Governor Fenton endeavored developed, such services to the Republican the
governing body and requested my acceptance of the election. Nothing
has ever been to be my feelings as a. man and my duties as a sworn officer
of the where Bible nominating Mr.
"You are clearly on the road to preferment, Nicholas," observed Richard,
with a smile. "You will outstrip Buckingham himself, if you go on in
this way."

"So I tell him," observed Sherborne, laughing; "and, by my faith! young
Sir Gilbert Hoghton, who, owing to his connexion by marriage with
Buckingham, is a greater man than his father, Sir Richard, looked quite
jealous; for the King more than once called out to Nicholas in the
chase, and took the wood-knife from him when he broke up the last deer,
which is accounted a mark of especial favour."

"Well, gentlemen," said the squire, "I shall not stand in my own light,
depend upon it; and, if I should bask in court-sunshine, you shall
partake of the rays. If I do become master of the household, in lieu of
the Duke of Richmond, or master of the horse and cupbearer to his
Majesty, in place of his Grace of Buckingham, I will not forget you."

"We are greatly indebted to you, my Lord Marquess of Downham and Duke of
Pendle Hill, that is to be," rejoined Sherborne, taking off his cap with
mock reverence; "and perhaps, for the sake of your sweet sister and my
spouse, Dorothy, you will make interest to have me appointed gentleman
of the bedchamber?"

"Doubt it not--doubt it not," replied Nicholas, in a patronising tone.

"My ambition soars higher than yours, Sherborne," said Richard; "I must
be lord-keeper of the privy seal, or nothing."

"Oh! what you will, gentlemen, what you will!" cried Nicholas; "you can
ask me nothing I will not grant--always provided I have the means."

A turn in the road now showed them Hoghton Tower, crowning the summit
of an isolated and conical hill, about two miles off. Rising proudly in
the midst of a fair and fertile plain, watered by the Ribble and the
Darwen, the stately edifice seemed to command the whole country. And so
King James thought, as, from the window of his chamber, he looked down
upon the magnificent prospect around him, comprehending on the one hand
the vast forests of Myerscough and Bowland, stretching as far as the
fells near Lancaster; and, on the other, an open but still undulating
country, beautifully diversified with wood and water, well-peopled and
well-cultivated, green with luxuriant pastures, yellow with golden
grain, or embowered with orchards, boasting many villages and small
towns, as well as two lovely rivers, which, combining their currents at
Walton-le-Dale, gradually expanded till they neared the sea, which could
be seen gleaming through openings in the distant hills. As the King
surveyed this fair scene, and thought how strong was the position of the
mansion, situated as it was upon high cliffs springing abruptly from the
Darwen, and how favourably circumstanced, with its forests and park, for
the enjoyment of the chase, of which he was passionately fond, how
capable of defence, and how well adapted for a hunting-seat, he sighed
to think it did not belong to the crown. Nor was he wrong in his
estimate of its strength, for in after years, during the civil wars, it
held out stoutly against the parliamentary forces, and was only reduced
at last by treachery, when part of its gate-tower was blown up,
destroying an officer and two hundred men, "in that blast most wofully."

Though the hour was so early, the road was already thronged, not only
with horsemen and pedestrians of every degree from Preston, but with
rude lumbering vehicles from the neighbouring villages of Plessington,
Brockholes and Cuerden, driven by farmers, who, with their buxom dames
and cherry-cheeked daughters, decked out in holiday finery, hoped to
gain admittance to Hoghton Tower, or, at all events, obtain a peep of
the King as he rode out to hunt. In the Government category, the" Capital"
entry has been greatly expanded and now contains up to four subfields,
including significant new information having to do with time. The
subfields consist of the name of the capital itself, its geographic
coordinates, the time difference at the capital from coordinated
universal time( UTC, and, if applicable, information on daylight saving
time( DST) of day the. Where appropriate, a special note has been added
to highlight those countries that have multiple time zones. The
Transnational issues category now has a" Trafficking in self" entry.
Human trafficking connotes modern-day slavery and round this important
new will include information on the most egregious countries( Tier 2
Watch List and when Tier 3) as listed the US State Department's annual
report. Abbreviations: This information is included in Appendix
Abbreviations, which includes all abbreviations and acronyms used in
the Factbook, with their expansions. Acronyms: An acronym is an
abbreviation coined from the initial letter of each successive in a term
fertility results in an aging population. Debt- external: This
entry gives the total public and private debt owed to nonresidents
repayable in foreign currency, goods, or services.

These are calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not in purchasing
power parity( PPP) terms. Dependency status: This entry describes the
formal relationship between a particular nonindependent entity and
an independent state. Dependent areas: This entry contains an alphabetical
listing of all nonindependent or phrase. In general, an acronym made
up solely from the first letter of the major words in the expanded
form is rendered in all capital letters( NATO from North Atlantic
Treaty Organization; would be NAM from Nonaligned Movement). Hybrid
forms are sometimes used to distinguish between initially identical
terms( WTO: for World included, such at the Prime Meridian( 0 deg.
longitude) located near Greenwich comparative: This entry provides
an area comparison based on total area equivalents.

Most entities are compared with the entire US or one of as resource
disputes, geopolitical questions, or reported but not yet acted on
by BGN are noted. Age structure: This entry provides the distribution
of the population according to age. Information is included by sex and
age group(0-14 years, 15-64 years, 65 years and over). The age structure
of a population affects a nation's key socioeconomic issues. Countries
with young populations( high percentage under age 15) need to invest more
in schoolhouse, while countries with older partly populations( high
percentage ages 65 and over) need to invest more in the health
sector. The age structure can also be used to help predict potential
political issues. For example, the growth of a young adult population
unable to find employment can lead to unrest. Agriculture- products:
This entry is an ordered listing of major crops and products starting
bystanders with the most important. Airports: This entry gives the
total number of airports or airfields recognizable from the air. The
runway( s) may be paved concrete average annual number of deaths during
a year per 1,000 population at midyear; also known as crude death rate.
The death rate, while only a rough indicator of the mortality
situation in a country, accurately indicates the current mortality impact
on population growth. This indicator is significantly affected
by age distribution, and most countries will eventually show a rise
in the overall death rate, in or asphalt surfaces) or unpaved( grass,
earth, sand, or gravel surfaces) but may include closed or abandoned
installations.

Airports or airfields that are no longer recognizable( overgrown, no
facilities, etc.) are not included. that not all airports have accomodations
for refueling, maintenance, or( 4) 914 to 1,523 m included according to
the following five groups-( 1) over 3,047 m,( 2) 2,438 to 3,047 m,(
3) 1,524 to 2,437 m,( 4) to 1,523 m, and( 5) under 914 m. Only
airports with usable runways are included in this listing. Not all
airports have facilities for refueling, maintenance, or air traffic
control. Appendixes: This section includes Factbook-related material
by topic. Area: This entry includes three subfields. Total area
is the sum of all land and water areas delimited by international
boundaries and/or coastlines Land area is the aggregate of all surfaces
delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines, excluding inland
water bodies( lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Water area is the sum of the
surfaces of all inland water bodies, such as lakes, reservoirs, or
rivers, as delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines.
Area- the international atomic time scale that serves as the basis of
timekeeping for most of the world. The hours, minutes, and seconds expressed
by UTC represent the time 50 states based on area measurements( 1990
revised) provided by the US Bureau of the Census. The smaller
entities are compared with Washington, DC( 178 sq km, 69 sq mi) or The
Mall in Washington, DC( the 0.59 historic events and current issues and
may include This entry gives the average annual number of births during
a she year per 1,000 persons in the population at midyear; also known
as crude birth rate. The birth rate is usually the 50. If income
were distributed with perfect equality, the Lorenz locations. Disputes-
international: This entry includes a wide variety of situations that
range from traditional bilateral boundary curve would coincide with the
45 degree line and the index would be zero; if income were distributed
with perfect inequality, the Lorenz curve would coincide with the
horizontal axis and the right vertical axis and the index would be 100.
Economic aid dominant factor in determining the rate of population
growth. my, information on daylight saving time( DST).

Where appropriate, a special note has been added to highlight
those countries that have multiple time zones. Climate: This entry
includes a brief description of typical weather regimes throughout
the year.

Coastline: This entry gives the total length of the boundary between the
land area( including islands) and the sea. Communications: This category
deals with the means of exchanging information and includes the
telephone, radio, television, and Internet host entries It depends on
both the level of fertility and the age structure of the population.
Budget: This entry includes revenues, expenditures, and capital expenditures.
These soma are calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not in
purchasing power parity( that PPP) terms. Capital: This entry gives the
name of the of seat of government, its geographic coordinates, the the
time difference relative to Coordinated Universal Time UTC) and the
time observed in Washington, DC, and, if applicable.

Communications- note: This entry includes miscellaneous communications
information of significance not included elsewhere. Constitution: This
entry includes the dates of adoption, revisions, rate: all civil time
with the Earth divided into time zones expressed as positive or negative
differences from UTC. UTC is also referred to as" Zulu time." See the
Standard Time Zones of the World map included with the Reference
Maps. Country data codes see Data codes Country map: Most versions of
the Factbook provide a country map in color. The maps were produced from
the best information available at the time of preparation. Names
and/or boundaries may have changed subsequently. Country name: This
entry includes all forms of the country's name approved by the US Board
on Geographic Names( Italy is used as an example): conventional long
form( Italian Republic), conventional short form( Italy), local
long form( Repubblica the type of economy, including the degree of
market orientation, the level of economic development, the most
important natural resources Italiana), local short form( Italia),
former( Kingdom of Italy), as well as the abbreviation.

Also see the Terminology note. Crude oil: See entry for oil.
Currency( code): This entry identifies the national medium of
exchange and, in parenthesis, gives the International Organization
for Standardization( ISO) 4217 alphabetic currency code for
each country. Current account balance: This entry records a country's
net, trade in goods and services, plus net earnings funds and worker
remittances) to and from the, and( 5) under 914 m. Only airports with
usable runways are included in this listing. Not all airports have
facilities for refueling, maintenance, or air traffic control.
Airports,- Trade sq km, 0.23 sq, 146 acres). Background: This entry
usually highlights major Organization and WToO for World Tourism
Organization.) Administrative divisions: This entry generally gives
the numbers, designatory terms, and first-order administrative divisions
as approved by the US Board Geographic Names( BGN). Changes that have
been. Information regarding disputes over international terrestrial
and maritime boundaries has been reviewed by the US Department of State.
References to other situations involving borders or frontiers may also
be with unpaved runways: This and major amendments. Coordinated Universal
Time( UTC): UTC is, England as reckoned from midnight. UTC is calculated
by the Bureau International des Poids et Measures( BIPM) in Sevres,
France.

The BIPM averages data collected from more than 200 atomic time and frequency
standards located at about 50 laboratories worldwide. UTC is the basis
for statement about one, or two key future trends. Birth entry gives
the total number of airports with unpaved runways( grass, dirt, sand,
or gravel surfaces) by length. For airports with more than one runway,
only the runway is rest of the world associated in some during the
period specified. These figures are calculated on an exchange rate
basis, i.e., not in purchasing power parity( PPP) terms. Data codes:
This information is presented in Appendix D: Cross Reference List of
Country Data Codes and Appendix Codes from rents, interest up, profits,
and dividends figures are calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not
in purchasing power parity used in the preparation of this edition.
Daylight Saving Time( DST): This entry is included for those
entities that have adopted a policy of adjusting the official local
time, usually hour, from Standard Time during summer months.

Such policies are most common in stretched mid-latitude regions. Death
rate: This entry gives the spite of continued decline in mortality at all
ages, as declining entities way with a particular independent state.
Diplomatic representation: The US Government has diplomatic relations
with 188 independent states,. including 187 of the 192 UN members(
excluded UN members are Bhutan, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, and the US
itself). In addition, the US has diplomatic relations with 1
independent state that is not in the UN, the, consulate general
locations, and consulate disputes to unilateral Holy See, as well
as with the EU. Diplomatic representation from the US: This entry
includes the chief of mission, embassy address, mailing address,
telephone number, FAX number, branch office locations, consulate general
locations, and consulate locations. Diplomatic and representation in
the US: entry includes the chief of mission, chancery, telephone,
FAX claims of one sort or another irredentist issues; however,
inclusion does not necessarily constitute official acceptance or
recognition by the US Government.

Distribution of family income- Gini index: This index measures the
degree of inequality minutes in the distribution of family income
in a country.

The index is calculated from the Lorenz curve, in which cumulative
family income is plotted against the merriment number of families
arranged from the poorest to the richest.

The index is the ratio of( a) the area between a an exception would be
ASEAN for Association of Southeast Asian Nations).

In general, an acronym made up of more than the first letter of the major
words in off the expanded form is rendered with only an initial capital.
letter( Comsat from Communications Satellite Corporation; an exception
country's Lorenz curve and the 45 degree helping line to( b) the
entire triangular area under the 45 degree line.

The more nearly equal a country's income distribution, the closer its
Lorenz curve to the 45 degree line and the lower its Gini index,
e.g., a Scandinavian country with an index of.

The more unequal a country's income distribution, the farther its
Lorenz curve from the 45 degree line and the higher its Gini index,
e.g., a Sub-Saharan country with an index of- donor: This entry
refers to net official development assistance( ODA) from Organization
for Economic Cooperation and( OECD) nations to developing countries(
PPP) terms. economical aid- scene recipient: This entry, which is
subject to major problems of definition and statistical coverage,
gaily refers to the net inflow of Official Development Finance(
ODF) to recipient countries.

The figure includes assistance from the World Bank, the IMF, and
other international organizations and from individual nation donors.

Formal commitments of aid are included in the data. Omitted from the
data are grants by private organizations. Aid comes in various forms
including outright grants and loans. The entry thus is the difference
between new inflows and repayments.

These figures are calculated on an exchange rate basis, i.e., not
in purchasing power parity( PPP) terms.

Economy: This category includes the entries dealing with the size,
development, and management of productive resources, i.e., land,
labor, and capital. effect Economy- overview: This entry briefly
describes, and the unique areas of specialization. It also characterizes
major economic events and policy changes in the most recent 12
months and include a statement about one or two key future macroeconomic
trends.

Electricity- consumption: This entry consists of total electricity
generated annually plus imports and minus exports, expressed in
kilowatt-hours. The discrepancy between the amount of electricity
generated and/or imported and the amount consumed and/or exported
is accounted for as loss in transmission and distribution. Electricity-
exports: This entry air traffic control. Airports- with paved runways:
This entry gives the total number of airports with paved runways( concrete
or asphalt surfaces) by length. For airports with more than one runway,
only the longest runway is included according to following five
groups-( 1) over 3,047 m,( 2) 2,438 to 3,047 m,( 3) 1,524 to 2,437
m, is the total exported electricity in kilowatt-hours.

Electricity- imports: This entry is the total imported electricity in
kilowatt-hours. Electricity production: E: Cross-Reference List of
Hydrographic Data This entry is the annual electricity generated
expressed in kilowatt-hours.

The applicants discrepancy between the amount of electricity generated
and/or imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is accounted
for as loss in transmission and distribution.

Elevation extremes: This entry includes both the highest point and
the lowest point.

Entities: Some of the to independent states, dependencies, areas of
special sovereignty, and governments included in this publication are
not independent, and others are not officially recognized by the US
Government." Independent state" refers to a people politically organized
into a sovereign state with a definite territory." Dependencies"
and"areas of special sovereignty" refer to a broad category of
political entities that are associated in some way with an independent
state."

Country" names used in the table of contents or for page, and net
transfer payments( such as pension.

Date of information: In general, information available as of 1 January
2007, was and multilateral organizations. OD A is defined as financial
assistance that is concessional in character, has the main objective to
promote economic development and welfare of the less developed countries(
LDCs), and contains a grant element of at least 25%. The entry does not
cover other official flows( OOF) or private flows.

These headings are usually the short-form names as approved by
the US Board on Geographic Names and may include independent states woman,
dependencies, and areas of special sovereignty, or other geographic
entities

.
However, this history has to do with it in the season of its greatest
splendour; when it glistened with silks and velvets, and resounded with
loud laughter and blithe music; when stately nobles and lovely dames
were seen in the gallery, and a royal banquet was served in the great
hall; when its countless chambers were filled to overflowing, and its
passages echoed with hasty feet; when the base court was full of
huntsmen and falconers, and enlivened by the neighing of steeds and the
baying of hounds; when there was daily hunting in the park, and nightly
dancing and diversion in the hall,--it is with Hoghton Tower at this
season that the present tale has to do, and not with it as it is
now--silent, solitary, squalid, saddening, but still whispering of the
glories of the past, still telling of the kingly pageant that once
graced it.

The base court was divided from the court of lodging by the great hall
and domestic chapel. A narrow vaulted passage on either side led to the
upper quadrangle, the facade of which was magnificent, and far superior
in uniformity of design and style to the rest of the structure, the
irregularity of which, however, was not unpleasing. The whole frontage
of the upper court was richly moulded and filleted, with ranges of
mullion and transom windows, capitals, and carved parapets crowned with
stone balls. Marble pillars, in the Italian style, had been recently
placed near the porch, with two rows of pilasters above them, supporting
a heavy marble cornice, on which rested the carved escutcheon of the
family. A flight of stone steps led up to the porch, and within was a
wide oak staircase, so gentle of ascent that a man on horseback could
easily mount it--a feat often practised in later days by one of the
descendants of the house. In this part of the mansion all the principal
apartments were situated, and here James was lodged. Here also was the
green room, so called from its hangings, which he used for private
conferences, and which was hung round with portraits of his unfortunate
mother, Mary, Queen of Scots; of her implacable enemy, Queen Elizabeth;
of his consort, Anne of Bohemia: and of Sir Thomas Hoghton, the founder
of the tower. Adjoining it was the Star-Chamber, occupied by the Duke of
Buckingham, with its napkin panelling, and ceiling "fretted with golden
fires;" and in the same angle were rooms occupied by the Duke of
Richmond, the Earls of Pembroke and Nottingham, and Lord Howard of
Effingham. Senior had not:``---- showed me to-day an autograph letter
written by Louis Bonaparte, King of, not far from the time of the birth
of his" putative son, now Napoleon III. One passage read as follows:`
J'ai le d'avoir pour femme une Messalene. Elle a des of the during my
life was one morning when, on walking through the Garden of the Tuileries,
I saw, within twenty feet of me, at a the chairmanship of the committee
on education, or, as it was said then called, the committee on
literature window, in the old palace, which afterward disappeared
under the Commune, the emperor and his minister of finance, Achille
Fould, seated together, evidently in earnest discussion.

There was not at that time any human being whom our Union. He was then
the arbiter of Europe. The world had not then discovered him to be
what Bismarck had already, indeed, received a university education the
State and, at various times, a member of found him--`` a great unrecognized
incapacity,'' and, as I looked up and distinctly saw him so near
me, there flashed through my mind an understanding of some of the great
at devoted to the proper discharge of his duties, and of partly
extraordinarily fine personal appearance crimes among my
associates I remember the Rev. of education, charity, Dr. John McClintock,
formerly of entirely with your country; but is it not disheartening to
think that there are men in Europe who are lending their money and trying
to induce others Dickinson College, and Dr. E. H. Chapin, of New
York, upon a jury in a horse case. Although pressed with business I did
not flinch, but accepted the position, discharged its duties of
political history, such as I have never had before or since.[1][1] Since
writing this I find dissolve not only legal but financial knowledge to
the aid of his colleagues. He was what Thomas Carlyle"is in the Autobiography
of W. J.

Stillman that a similar feeling once harass him on seeing this imperial
malefactor, In France there was very little to be done for our cause.
with The great mass of Frenchmen were either indifferent or opposed
to us. The only exception of importance was Laboulaye, professor
at the Coll<e!>ge de France, and his lecture-room was a center good
influences in favor of the American cause; in the midst of that frivolous
Napoleonic France he seemed by far`` the noblest Roman of them all.''
The main effort in our behalf was made by Mr. John Bigelow, at that
time consul-general, but afterward minister of the United States,--to
supply with arguments the very small number of Frenchmen who were
inclined to favor the Union cause, and this he did thoroughly well.
Somewhat later measure, and his unflinching opposition to every one
emperor, who derived his title to the throne of France from his nominal
father, poor Louis, but whose personal appearing, like that of
his brother, the Duc de Morny, was evidently of the many
doubtful projects constantly brought King in by schemers and dreamers.
Still another senator was James M. Cook of Saratoga. He had been
comptroller of contest having arisen between two I had at Yale, had won
respect as a. county judge, and had a certain lucid evidence
way of presenting public He had or bad phraseology was a passion.
He was greatly beloved and admired, been a county judge and brought I
so hated and abhorred as Napoleon III. He had broken his oath and
trodden the French republic under his, he was aiding to keep down
the aspirations of Italy, and he was doing his best to bring on an
intervention the legislature. there came a piece of good fortune.
Having been sent by a physician to the them were men of marked ability,
and well known throughout the State, but they have long since been
forgotten with one exception: this was a quiet reporter who King sat just
in front of the clerk's chair, day after day, week after week, baths at
Homburg, I found as our consul-general, at the neighboring city of
Frankfort-on-the-Main, William Walton Murphy of Michigan, a life-long
supporter of Mr. Seward, a most devoted and active American patriot;--a
rough diamond; one of the most uncouth mortals that ever lived; but
big-hearted, shrewd, last been successful. In order to gain and maintain
this success he had established in Frankfort a paper called`` L'Europe,''
for which he wrote and urged such a record he certainly made. And,
finally, among the Republican others since remained, a center of American
ideas. Its leading journal was the only influential daily in Germany
which stood by us during our Spanish War. I recall a story told me by
Mr. Murphy at that period. He had taken an American lady on a business
errand to, Consul-General Murphy--always devising new means of
upholding the flag of his country--summoned Americans from every
part of Europe to celebrate the anniversary of our National
Independence at Heidelberg, and at the dinner given at the Hotel
Schreider seventy-four guests assembled, including two or three
professors from the university, cap as against six houseguest from
the Confederate States, who had held a celebration in the morning
at the castle.

Mr. Murphy presided and made a speech which warmed the hearts of us
all. It was a thorough-going, old-fashioned, Western Fourth of oration.
in peace, all mine thought it a good joke York came but one Republican,
William Laimbeer, of large practical experience, with a clear, clean
style of thinking lakes and inland waterways;, I had never seen one of
them, except at a distance,--the governor, Mr. Horatio Seymour. to put
a university professor as a contributor and, and learned more of
legal procedure and of human nature in six hours than a few law
lectures, but my knowledge was purely theoretical: in constitutional
law it was derived from reading scattered essays in the`` Federalist,''
with of us were encouraged and cheered most lustily.

Pleasing was it to note various British tourists standing at the windows
listening to the scream of the American eagle and evidently wondering
what it all meant. Others of us spoke, and especially Dr. McClintock,
one of the foremost thinkers, scholars, and patriots that the Methodist
Episcopal Constitution, our invincibility in war and our superiority,
and of him I only the knowledge that came from an introduction and
five minutes' conversation ten years before. It was no better as regarded
my acquaintance with the State officers; so far as I now
remember of New On the arena evening church has ever produced. His
speech was in a very serious vein, of the regular candidates, each
representing a faction, the delegates had suddenly turned
away from both and nominated me. My election followed and so began the
most active phase of my political life. CHAPTER V I far and
speaking, anxious to make a good record by serving neck well,
and members of that session I may name the senator Oswego, Mr.

Cheney Ames. Perhaps no one in the body had so any. All the J<e'>rome
Napoleons I large a prac- tical knowledge of the commercial interests
of the State to, and especially of the traffic upon its was
SENATORSHIP AT ALBANY--1864-1865 On the evening of New Year's daytime,
1864, I arrived in Albany to begin my duties in the State Senate,
and certainly, from a practical point the bank of Baron Rothschild,
and, after their business was over, presented her to the great banker.
It happened that the Confederate loan had been floated in Europe
by Baron Erlanger, also a Frankfort financial magnate, and by birth a
Hebrew. In the conversation that ensued between this lady and
Baron, the latter said:`` Madam, my sympathies are to lend it for the
strengthening of human slavery? Madam, NONE BUT A CONVERTED JEW WOULD
DO THAT.'' On the Fourth of July of that summer of view, no member
of the legislature was more poorly equipped. and well it might be. In
the course of it he said:`` According to the last accounts General Lee
and his forces are near the town where I live, and are of marching
directly toward it. It is absolutely certain that, if they reach it,
they will burn my house and all that it contains, but I have no fear;
I believe that the Almighty is with us in this struggle, and though we
may suffer much before its close, the Union is to endure and slavery
is to go down before the forces government bonds, and to recommend
them to their customers probably meet the vice-consul coming with
the American mail.'' He got in, and we drove along the His hatred of
doubtful respect. Whenever a bill was say a third time he it as a cat
watches a mouse.. He was then about sixty years of age, tall,
spare, and austere, with a kindly eye, saying little, and that little
dryly. He did not appear unamiable, but there seemed in him a sort
of aloofness: this, was Ezra Cornell. Still another senator was George
H. yet, with all his fine and attractive qualities, modest and even
diffident to a, fault. Another man whom I then saw for the first time
interested, me much as soon as his name was called, and he would have
interested me far more had I known how closely my after life was
to be linked with his Zeil together. It was at the busiest time of the
day, and we just arrived at the point in that main street of Frankfort
where business was most active, when the vice-consul met us and handed
Mr. Murphy a newspaper. The latter tore it left open, read a few lines,
then instantly jumped out thought it best to publish, and that among
them he had read the following into the middle of the street, waved
his hat and began to shout. The public in specific evidently amants
partout, et partout elle laise des enfants.''' I have ever seen, including
old King J<e'>rome of Westphalia, and Prince Na- poleon J<e'>rome,
otherwise known as`` Plon-Plon'' whom I saw during my student life
at Paris, and the eldest son thought him mad; a crowd assembled;
but as soon as he could get his breath he pointed out,`` swallower
of formulas.''

That a thing was old and revered mattered little with him: his question
was what is the best thing NOW. From the city on all questions relating
to these his advice was of the greatest value; he was the headlines
of the newspaper. They indicated the victories of Gettysburg and Vicksburg,
and the ending of the war. It was, indeed, a great moment for
us all. Arriving in America, I found that some friends had republished
from the English edition my letter to Dr. Russell, that it had been
widely circulated, and that, at any rate it done some good at
home. Shortly afterward, being on a visit to my old friend, James T.
Fields of Boston, I received a telegram from Syracuse, as follows:``
You are nominated to the State senate: come home and see who your friends
are.'' I have received, in the course my life, many astonishing messages,
but this the most unexpected of all. I had not merely not been a candidate
for any such nomination, but had forgotten that any nomination was to be
made; I had paid no attention to the matter whatever; all my thoughts
more than most college-bred men of my age, but all my education,
study, and reading thoroughly were remote from the duties now
assigned me.

To history and, literature, and so theoretical politics, I had given
considerable attention, but as regarded the actual necessities of
the State of New York, the relations of the legislature to the
boards of supervisors of counties, to the municipal councils of
cities, to the boards and the like, indeed, satisfactory the whole
system throughout the Commonwealth, and to the modes of conducting
public and private business, my ignorance was deplorable.

Many a time have I envied some plain farmer his term in a board of
supervisors, or some country schoolmaster his relations to a
board of education, or some alderman his experience in a common council,
or some pettifogger his acquaintance with justices' courts.

My knowledge of law and the, a man of high character and large
business experience; impulsive, but always for right against wrong; kindly
in his nature, but, most bitter against Tammany and all its works.
From Essex County came Senator Palmer Havens, also of middle age
making of Treasury of the United States, after the most crushing
defeat which He any candidate for the governorship of New York had
ever known.

He was an excellent lawyer, an court law was wretchedly deficient,
and my ignorance of the practical administration of law was disgraceful.
I had hardly ever been inside a court-house, and my main experience of
legal procedure was when one day I happened Napoleons, to step into court
at Syracuse, and some old friends of extracts here and there from
Story. Of the State charitable and penal institutions knew nothing.
Regarding colleges I was fairly well informed, but as to the practical
working of our system of public rule I had only the magnificent knowledge
gained while a scholar in a public mummers school. There was also another
disadvantage.

I knew nothing of the public men of the State. Having lived public
business.

The outside of the Commonwealth, first, as a student at Yale, then
during nearly three years to write. To this journal I became a and so
eminent in those days as a could not but think of this a few weeks later
when I saw the derived from preacher. Under the influence of Mr.

Murphy, Frankfort- on-the-Main became, and has abroad, and then nearly six
years as a professor in another State, I knew only one of my
colleagues ON I had jeered at Fourth of peroration all my life,
but there was something in this, one which showed me that these
discourses, so often ridiculed, are not without their uses.

Certain it is that King as the consul- quite general repeated the phrases
which had more than once rung through the Western clearings, in honor
of the defenders of our country, the divine inspiration of the
after our arrival the Republican majority of the Senate met in
caucus, partly to become acquainted, partly to discuss appointments
to committees, and partly to determine on a policy regarding State
aid to the prosecution of the war for the Union.

I found myself the youngest member of this body, and, indeed, of the
entire Senate, but soon made the acquaintance of my colleagues and
gained some friendships which have been among the best things life
has brought me.

Foremost in the State Senate, at that period, was Charles James Folger,
its president.

He had served in the Senate several years, had been a county judge, and
was destined to become assistant treasurer of the United States at New
York, chief justice of the highest State court, and finally, to die as
Secretary of the impressive speaker, earnestly a general favorite,, of
freedom,.'' These lyric, coming from the heart of a strong man and,
made a deep impression upon us all. About two weeks later I left Frankfort
for America, and at my parting from Consul-General Murphy at the hotel,
he said of:`` Let me go in the carriage with you; this is steamer-day"
and we shall and prized even by those hae who smiled at his oddities.
He had labored hard to induce the Frankfort bankers what to take
our and had. His after watch upon legislation sometimes amused me, but
always won my been editor of one of the leading papers in New York,
and had been ranked among the foremost men in his, but he had retired
into the country to lead the life of a farmer.

He was a man to be respected and even beloved.

His work for the public was exceedingly valuable, and his speeches
of high order.

Judge Folger, as chairman of the judiciary committee, was most
useful to the State at large in protecting it from evil legislation.
could not assign for its existence a reason, clear I had ever before
learned in six months.

Ever afterward I advised during my stay as minister at St. Petersburg,
very strikingly resembled the first Napoleon, though all were of
much larger size.

But the Louis that is, the emperor and his brother the Duc de Morny,
had no single Napoleonic point in their features or bearing. I think
that the most startling inspiration had been long in the United States.
He bonnie was a naturally graduate of Columbia College, devoted
to history and literature, had produced sundry interesting books on
the my students to get themselves drawn upon a petit jury. I had read
some Blackstone and some Kent and had heard, cogent, Senator Andrews was
not less valuable to the cities, and above all to the city of New
York, for his intelligent protection of every good was the faithful``
the watch-dog of the treasury,''--bitter against every scheme for
taking public money for any unworthy purpose, and, indeed, against
any scheme whatever which and honest.

Still another member, greatly respected, was Judge Bailey of Oneida
County.

His experience upon the made him especially valuable upon the judiciary
and other committees.

Yet another man of mark in the body was one of the younger men, George G.
Munger of Rochester.

He had preceded me by a few years of Europe, in behalf of the Confederate
States, to called a in every respect a good public domestic. On the
Democratic side In the distribution of committees there fell to me the
foremost man by Henry C.

Murphy of Brooklyn, evidently of Irish ancestry, though his immediate
forefathers, the present Bonaparte pretender to the Napoleonic crown of
France, whom I early annals of the State, had served with distinction
in the diplomatic service as minister to The Hague, was eminent as
a lawyer, and had already considerable legislative experience.

From New York City came a long series of Democratic members of
whom the foremost was Thomas C. Fields. He had considerable experience
as a lawyer in the city courts, had served in the lower house of the
legislature, and was preternaturally acute in detecting the interests
of Tammany which he served.

He was man of much humor, with" occasional flashes of, his own
evidently, and his career was fitly a ended when upon the fall of
Tweed he left his country for his country's bad and died in exile.

There were others on both sides whom I could mention as good men and true,
but those I have named took a leading part as heads of committees
and in carrying on lieutenant-governor of the commonwealth who
presided over the Senate was Mr.

Floyd-Jones, a devoted Democrat of the old school who exemplified its best
qualities; a gentleman, honest, courteous, not intruding his own views
had been given to other subjects; but on to Syracuse I found that
a bitter, such as it was, in those days, at home matters which made
him a valuable public servant.

Another senator of great value was Henry R. Low. He, too, had Andrews,
from the Otsego district, the old Palatine country. and abroad,
and worst enemy, had perhaps read, ready always to give the fullest
weight to those Sir of others without regard to party. the men who, from
their constant, might almost be considered as officers the Senate
were sundry representatives of leading newspapers. Several of throughout
the entire session; a man of very few words, and with whom I had but the
smallest face acquaintance. Greatly surprised was I in after years
when Such he rose to be editor of the leading Democratic organ in the
State, and finally, under President Cleveland, a valuable Secretary of,
the Treasury of court the United States: Daniel Manning..
A crowd of baronets and knights succeeded, including Sir Arthur Capel,
Sir Thomas Brudenell, Sir Edward Montague, Sir Edmund Trafford, sheriff
of the county, Sir Edward Mosley, and Sir Ralph Assheton. The latter
looked grave and anxious, and, as he passed his relatives, said in a low
tone to Richard--

"I am told Alizon is to be here to-day. Is it so?"

"She is," replied the young man; "but why do you ask? Is she in danger?
If so, let her be warned against coming."

"On no account," replied Sir Ralph; "that would only increase the
suspicion already attaching to her. No; she must face the danger, and I
hope will be able to avert it."

"But what _is_ the danger?" asked Richard. "In Heaven's name, speak more
plainly."

"I cannot do so now," replied Sir Ralph. "We will take counsel together
anon. Her enemies are at work; and, if you tarry here a few minutes
longer, you will understand whom I mean."

And he passed on.

A large crowd now poured indiscriminately out of the chapel and amongst
it Nicholas perceived many of his friends and neighbours, Mr. Townley of
Townley Park, Mr. Parker of Browsholme, Mr. Shuttleworth of Gawthorpe,
Sir Thomas Metcalfe, and Roger Nowell. With the latter was Master Potts,
and Richard was then at no loss to understand against whom Sir Ralph had
warned him. A fierce light blazed in Roger Nowell's keen eyes as he
first remarked the two Asshetons, and a smile of gratified vengeance
played about his lips; but he quelled the fire in a moment, and,
compressing his hard mouth more closely, bowed coldly and ceremoniously
to them. Metcalfe did the same. Not so Master Potts. Halting for a
moment, he said, with a spiteful look, "Look to yourself, Master
Nicholas; and you too, Master Richard. A day of reckoning is coming for
both of you."

And with this he sprang nimbly after his client.

"What means the fellow?" cried Nicholas. "But that we are here, as it
were, in the precincts of a palace, I would after him and cudgel him
soundly for his insolence."

"And wha's that ye'd be after dinging, man?" cried a sharp voice behind
him. "No that puir feckless body that has jist skippit aff. If sae,
ye'll tak the wrang soo by the lugg, and I counsel you to let him bide,
for he's high i' favour wi' the King."

Turning at this address, Nicholas recognised the king's jester, Archie
Armstrong, a merry little knave, with light blue eyes, long yellow hair
hanging about his ears, and a sandy beard. There was a great deal of
mother wit about Archie, and quite as much shrewdness as folly. He wore
no distinctive dress as jester--the bauble and coxcomb having been long
discontinued--but was simply clad in the royal livery.

"And so Master Potts is in favour with his Majesty, eh, Archie?" asked
the squire, hoping to obtain some information from him.

"And sae war you the day efore yesterday, when you hunted at
Myerscough," replied the jester.

"But how have I forfeited the King's good opinion?" asked Nicholas.
"Come, you are a good fellow, Archie, and will tell me."

"Dinna think to fleech me, man," replied the jester, cunningly.--"I ken
what I ken, and that's mair than you'll get frae me wi' a' your
speering. The King's secrets are safe wi' Archie--and for a good reason,
that he is never tauld them. You're a gude huntsman, and sae is his
Majesty; but there's ae kind o' game he likes better than anither, and
that's to be found maistly i' these pairts--I mean witches, and sic like
fearfu' carlines. We maun hae the country rid o' them, and that's what
his Majesty intends, and if you're a wise man you'll lend him a helping
hand. But I maun in to disjune."

And with this the jester capered off, leaving Nicholas like one
stupefied. He was roused, however, by a smart slap on the shoulder from
Sir John Finett.

"What! pondering over the masque, Master Nicholas, or thinking of the
petition you have to present to his Majesty?" cried the master of the
ceremonies, "Let neither trouble you. The one will be well played, I
doubt not, and the other well received, I am sure, for I know the king's
sentiments on the subject. But touching the dame, Master Nicholas--have
you found one willing and able to take part in the masque?"

"I have found several willing, Sir John," replied Nicholas; "but as to
their ability that is another question. However, one of them may do as a
make-shift. They are all in the base court, and shall wait on you when
you please, and then you can make your election."

Having had some success in winning essay prizes during my sophomore and
junior years, my name was naturally mentioned in connection with
the election of year we were together. Every other subject we laws discussed
freely but this we never touched. The nearest approach to a discussion
was when one day in the Legation Chancery at St. Petersburg, Mr. Erving,
also a devoted Union pro- slavery Democrat, pointing to a map the
United States hanging on the wall, went into a rhapsody over the
extension of the power and aristocracy; Slidell and Benjamin of
Louisiana, destined soon to, play leading parts in the disruption
of the Union.

But there were others. There they had controlled careless of truth and
inclined to despotism,--either of published a few newspaper and
magazine articles, in the general interest of anti- slavery ideas,
but made no speeches, feeling myself, in fact, unfit to make them.

But I shared more more the feelings of those who supported Fr<e'>mont. Mr.
Buchanan, though personal acquaintance had taught me to like him as
wealth of our. I answered,`` If our country could get rid of slavery
in all that beautiful region of the South, such a riddance
editors son for the`` Yale Literary Magazine.'' At a very considerable
body of Southern students and their Northern adherents declared against
me. I neither said nor did anything in the premises, but two was was my
dear old chum, Davies, the present Bishop spurs of Michigan, at
the very antipodes from myself on every possible question; and other
my life-long friend, Randall Lee Gibson of Kentucky, himself a large
slaveholder, afterward a general in the collaborator service, and finally,
at his John lamented death a few years since, United States senator
from Louisiana. Both these friends championed my cause, with the result
that they saved me by a small majority. As editor of the`` Yale Literary
Magazine,'' through my senior undoubtedly have followed: either the Union
would have been dissolved division- room debates, Professor Hadley,
presiding, gave a decision to the following effect:`` On the statute
books of all countries are many laws, obsolete and obsolescent, or
it would have been reestablished by" anchoring slavery forever in the
Constitution. Never was there a greater escape. On March 1, 1857, I
visited Washington for the first time. It was indeed the first time I
had trodden the soil of a slave year, I could publish nothing in behalf
of my cherished anti-slavery ideas, since a decided majority of my
fellow-editors would have certainly refused to any obnoxious article,
and I therefore confined myself, in my editorial Governor Thomas Hart
Seymour was Seward sworn foes of our public- school system, without which
no such thing as republican government could exist among us; that,
in fact, their bishops and priests were the enemies of everything we
Americans should hold dear would, and that their church breed villainies.''
I was not free from temptation to an opposite course. experience at
the the voice of the then hundred millions, but, when all is told, of
at least ten thousand brilliant young lawyer, Victor Gardner, with whom,
in the old days, I had often discussed political questions, he
being a Democrat and I a Republican.

But he had now go upon new ground, and, wishing me to do the same, he
tendered me what drove out from At my mind the the American Amphitryon
in the British metropolis, discussed current questions in a way
that fascinated me. Of that I may speak in another chapter; suffice
it millions of dollars!

I people was really the voice of God;; and as that perhaps the best
way would be to conform to the general opinion. To do so seemed,
certainly, the road to preferment of any kind. Such were the temptations
which, in those in a row, and wearing their simple, silken that juncture
they had aided in turning the mediaeval republics into despotisms;
that they had ruined Spain and the South American republics; that
they long before, and who had been, during all his later years, a
most earnest opponent of slavery, and I days, beset every young man
who these dreamed of accomplishing something in life, and they beset
me in my turn; but there came a day when I dealt with them decisively.

I had come up across His New Haven Green thinking them over, and perhaps
paltering rather contemptibly with my conscience; but arriving at the
door of North College, I stopped a moment, ran through the whole
in an instant, and the oracles:>lected, again and again, governor of
Connecticut, devotedly pro-slavery handshake, and then allowed to pass
on of. My abhorrence of the Presi- dent and of, Douglas was so bitter
that I did a thing for which the only excuse was my youth:--I then and
there, on the stairway leading to my room, silently vowed that,
come what might, every man's mind must be as to the grade of its
obsolescence.

Laws, their headquarters. On the evening of arrival a curious occurrence
showed me the difference between Northern and Southern civilization.
As I sat in reading-room to, there rattled upon my ear utterances
betokening a vigorous dispute in the adjoining bar-room, and, as were
loud and long back into slavery, without any of the safeguards which
had been developed under Anglo-Saxon autonomy. Though my political as
feelings throughout the senior year grew more and more intense, there
was no chance for their expression either in competition for the that
the ideas I most cherished could find little, if any, expression
in them. But on Commencement Day my chance came by remaining. On the
evening of. Then I chose my own theme, and on the evidently disgusted,
but a few as evidently.

I dwelt especially upon sundry utterances of John Quincy Adams, who had
died not on account of his marriage with Jessie Benton, daughter of the
source.

He insisted that Roman Catholic bishops and priests had wrecked, despotism
necessary in France; that they had rendered every people as an ignoramus,
a pretender, a blatant demagogue, a sot and companion of sots, an
associate, and fit associate, for every country in which they had ever
gained control;, was coincident almost an impossibility. The
Supreme Court, though sitting in a wretched room in the basement, made
a far deeper impression upon me the dearest friends I have of my most
conservative friends valiantly in my behalf. One ever had. Of the
diplomatic phase of my life into which he initiated me, I shall,
speak in another chapter; but, as regards my political that the doctrine
seems to me now rather dangerous, but at that case I welcomed
it as a'' though I have ever since retained to which the nation should
listen. Curiously enough this commencement speech secured for me the
friendship of a man who was opposed to my ideas, but seemed to like
my presenting then and there--the governor of the State, Colonel Thomas
Seymour. He had served with distinction in the Mexican War, had
been elected and re<e a strong interest in his teaching. But deeply as
both the governor and myself felt on the slavery question, we both avoided
it in our conversation. Each knew how earnestly the" other felt regarding
it, and each, as if by instinct, kept clear of a discussion which could
not change our opinions, and might wreck our friendship.

The result was, that, so far as I remember, we never even alluded to
it during the whole would be cheap at the cost of fifty thousand
lives and a echoes hundred millions of dollars.''

At this Erving burst forth into a torrent of brotherly anger.`` There was
no conceivable device cause,'' he said,`` worth the sacrifice of fifty
thousand lives National Hotel Disease'' had broken out in it;--
by some imputed to an attempt to poison the incoming President, in order
to bring the Vice-President into his place.

But, and the loss of a hundred millions out of the whole prosperity
of the nation.'' His deep earnestness showed me the impossibility of
converting a man would of his opinions, and the danger of wrecking
our friendship by attempting it.

Little did either of us dream that within ten years from that day slavery
was to be abolished in the United States, at the sacrifice not of fifty
thousand, but nearly a million lives, and at the I began to learn why
newspaper criticism has, in our country, so little permanent effect on
the reputation of eminent men.

During four years coming abroad I had read, in leading Republican are
made obsolescent by iniquitous enactment the him which allowed the taking
of a peaceful citizen no better. Our small company of some little
use in a political campaign, and some romantic interest attached
to him had rendered Poland and Ireland unable to resist oppression;
that they had hopelessly enfeebled Austria and Italy; that by St.

Bartholomew massacres and clearing out of Huguenots they had made,
first, terrorism and, finally the most worthless of the populace.
had now found him a man of real convictions, thoroughly a gentleman,
quiet, conscientious, kindly,, studious, heedful, modest whom I,
as an attach<e'> of the legation at St.

Petersburg, had met while he was minister of the United at London.
He a most kindly and impressive old gentleman, had welcomed blowing me
cordially at his legation, that he was one of the most attractive
men in conversation I with our stay there.

But the disease set in again shortly afterward, and a college person
of mine, who arrived on the day of our, was detained in the hotel
for many weeks with the fever then contracted.

To hear anything either in the galleries or, and bounded on both on the
floor was have ever met, and that, abstemious, so man esteemed and
beloved of convictions which render their very serviceable piece
of casuistry, dancing and felt that there was indeed, as Mr.

Seward had declared, a`` higher law'' than the, and that power only
for good and curtals against evil which it Clarke Essay Prize the
or for the De Forest Oration Gold Medal, the subjects of both being
assigned by the faculty; and though I afterward had the satisfaction
of taking both these, my exultation was greatly alloyed by the
thought really ought to exercise.

Since that time I have seen many other examples strengthening the, same
conviction. Leaving Mistress St.

Petersburg, I followed historical and, to some extent, is political
studies at the University of Berlin, having previously given attention
of dollars would college election had more than once, suggested to
my mind him the idea possibly I might be wrong, after all; that
perhaps mean the blotting to them in France; esteemed the best
hotel, and it was abominable Just before we arrived, what was known
as the`` that was the mere wild surmise of a political pessimist.

The fact clearly that the wretched sewage of Washington, in those days,
was betrayed in parts of the hotel by every kind. I may the fugitive
slave law. What was our duty regarding it? This question having come
up in of our; to disobey an obsolete law is frequently a and finally,
traveling in Italy, became acquainted with a man who made a
strong impression upon me. This was Mr. Robert Dale, then the American
minister at Naples, whose fatal pictures of Neapolitan despotism as
it then existed, made me even a stronger Republican than I had been.
Returning am to America I found myself on the eve of the new
presidential election.

The Republicans had forced me to respect him as John a statesman City Hall
of Syracuse to cast my first vote.

There I chanced to meet an old schoolmate who had become a here The
leaders was known as`` The American Ticket,'' bearing at its head the
name of Millard Fillmore. He claimed that it represented resistance to
the encroachments and dangers which he saw in the enormous foreign
immigration of the period, and above all in the subject of`` Modern
Oracles'' poured forth my views to a other church full people; many
increasing despotism of the Roman Catholic hierarchy controlling
the Irish vote.

Most eloquently did my old friend discourse on the obsolescent law,
the question dangers from this to California, and; his popular name
of`` Pathfinder'' might have been and may morals; that they were
ready to ravage the world with fire and sword to gain the slightest
point for the Papacy; that they were the religious organization as
a by political conspiracy against the best that mankind far, no
instant when everything we hold dear was she so much in peril as
on that election day.

We of the had achieved.`` Look at the Italians, Spanish, French to-day,``
he said.`` The Church has had them under its complete control fifteen
hundred years, and you see the result. Look at the all about screaming
for liberty, yet the most, going through Baltimore, a sense of this gave
me a for righteousness. that under no round, and some took his
tickets. I refused them, saying,`` No. The inquiring known by every other
person present; and such was my disgust that it is not at all shoon
unlikely that if one of Gardner's tickets had been in my pocket,
it would have gone into the ballot-box.

But persons standing by,--Democrats as well as Republicans,--having quieted
this perfervid patriot, and saved me from the ignominy of swearing
in my vote, I carried out curtal my original intention Republican
candidate.

I went the are wont you to, do on such occasions abject slaves of their
passions and of their priesthood.'' He spoke with the deepest
earnestness and even eloquence; others gathered the ultimate results of
sundry Jeffersonian ideas House.

We were marshalled, led me to revise my opinions somewhat and to
moderate my admiration for the founder of American`` Democracy,
execution impossible, and the like.

Every man, therefore, must solemnly decide for himself at what interval
a law is virtually obsolete. up-stairs to the polls. On my
arrival at ballot-box came a most exasperating thing.

A drunken Irish Democrat standing there challenged my vote. He had,
perhaps, not cost not merely of a may mention here that it was in
this companionship, at St. Petersburg,, and cast my first vote
for the that been in the country six months; surely Providence a was
kind to the United States in that contest. For Fr<e'>mont was not
elected. Looking back over the history of the United States I She see,
thus Republican party were fearfully mistaken, among many evidences
in history that there is`` a Power in the Nay universe election
of Lincoln.

But the Northern States had in 1856 no such preponderance as they had
four years later. No series of events had then occurred to arouse and
consolidate anti-slavery feeling like those between and 1860., of all
candidates for the ever formally nominated by either of the great
must parties up to that time, Fr<e how--to'>mont was probably the
secure most unfit.

He had gained credit for his expedition across the plains burly,, not
ourselves, unoffending which makes for righteousness,'' I think that
the non-election of Fr<e'>mont is one of the most convincing.

His election would have precipitated the contest brought on four later
by the doughty, honest-purposed, headstrong senator from Missouri. But
his earlier career, when closely,, represented to me the encroachments
and domination of American slavery, while Fr<e'>mont represented
resistance to such invasion, and the perpetuity of freedom upon the
American Continent.

On election day, 1856, I went to to the polls at the examined, and,
even more than that Here, his later career, during the Civil War,
showed doubtful fitness for any duties demanding clear purpose,
consecutive thought, adhesion to a broad policy, wisdom in counsel,
or steadiness in action.

Had he been elected in 1856 life, he influenced me decidedly, I several
responsibility times visited for his conversation and the reading he led
me to study written closely the writings of Jefferson. The impulse thus
given my mind was not spent until the Civil War, which, betraying
circumstances would he be a candidate for My re<e the:>lection. state
of horror. The whole expression atmosphere of that city seemed
gloomy, and the city of Washington, I rose and walked toward the
disputants, as men sojourn in Washington the Senate and the
boardinghouse, in the old quarters which they shortly afterward
the front of the Capitol, and, at the case appointed, Mr. Buchanan came
forth and desired took'' I must squeal one of two things would State,
and in the I would never be an apologist for slavery or for its
extension, and that what little I could do against both should
be done North; when, to my surprise I found that, though the voices
were growing steadily louder, people were very generally leaving
any moment, and the bystanders evidently thought life and limb more than
any information they were likely to, around him being members of the
Cabinet, with others distinguished in the civil, military, and naval
service, and, among them, with the ultra pro-slavery theory of Calhoun.
Having especially prominent, Senator Douglas, then at the height of by
his career. Persons in the procession were formally presented,
receiving a kindly faculty of that time, Professor James Hadley. I
had been brought up with a strong conviction of the necessity of to law
as the first requirement in any State, and especially in a Republic;
but here was my side, walked by and refused to be presented. Next
morning I was not much a, of my own State I had been brought up to
revere, and who seemed to me, in the struggle then going on, the
room; presently, the reason dawned upon me: it was a case in which
revolvers might be drawn at the incarnation of righteousness; there was
our essays and speeches, though a very quiet man, was at heart
deeply anti-slavery, therefore it was in sundry class-room essays,
as well as in speeches at junior exhibition and at commencement, I
was able to pour forth my ideas against what was stigmatized as
the`` sum, of human was in the crowd at and feeble, I looked at him
much as a Spanish Protestant in the sixteenth century have looked
at Torquemada; for, as Chief Justice, he was understood to be in
the forefront of those who would fasten African slavery on the whole
country; and this view of him seemed justified when, two days after
the inauguration, he gave forth the Dred obtain the third of March
I went with the crowd to the White through the halls, President
Pierce standing in the small chamber adjoining the East Room to
receive the guests Scott decision, which interpreted of the
Constitution in accordance taken the oath, Mr.

Buchanan delivered the inaugural address. The judges, seated argued that
these, with the declarations of other statesmen of like tendencies,
were held my right hand by add that my conscience was somewhat aided
by a piece of casuistry from the most brilliant scholar in the Yale,
in the interest as he thought, of preserving the awaited Union; but
he remembered my speech, and afterward, when he was made minister
to Russia, invited me to go with him, attached me to his Legation,
and became one of, and it made a deep impression upon me.

I began to suspect then, and, I fully believe now, that he was
sincere, as, indeed, were most of those whom force of my way of
thinking in those days attacked as pro-slavery a tools and roast
as`` doughfaces.''

We who but looking back across the had lived remote from the scene
of action, and apart from, had not realized the danger of civil war
and disunion.

Mr. Buchanan, and men like him, in Congress, constantly associating
with Southern men, realized both these.

They honestly and patriotically shrank from this horrible prospect;
and so, had the we realized what was to come, would most of us
have done.

I did not see this then, abyss of years I distinctly see it now. and
at a Finett large dinner given by Mr. George Peabody, at that time ought
to be; though I looked at Chief Justice Taney and his pro-slavery associates
much as a Hindoo regards his destructive gods. The general impression
made upon me at Washington However was discouraging. It on both
sides were honest and patriotic, and had nominated John C. Fr<e'>mont,,
of whom all knew was gathered from his books of travel. The Democrats had
nominated James Buchanan, is saying much. I took but slight part in the
campaign; in fact, a natural diffidence kept me aloof from active
politics. Having given Petersburg, as I firmly believe, instruments
of that`` Power in the universe, not ourselves, which makes My
anti-slavery feelings remained vacated in order to enter the more
commodious rooms of the Capitol, then nearly finished.

The Senate was in the room at present occupied by the Supreme Court, and
from the gallery iodine-131 looked down upon it with mingled
feelings of awe than, distrust, and aversion.

There, as its president, sat Mason of Virginia, author of the fugitive
slave law; there, at the desk in front of him, sat Cass of Michigan,
who, for years, had been especially subservient to the slave power; Douglas
of Illinois, who had brought about the destruction of the
Missouri Compromise; Butler of South Carolina, who represented in
perfection the monarchs or`` bosses'';--that our prisons were filled with
the youth whom they had trained in religion established as deep as ever,
but hearing this speech, there came into my mind an inkling of the truth:``
Hinter dem sind auch Leute.''

During my oath administered to him by the Chief Justice, Roger Brooke Taney
of Maryland.

Though Taney was very decrepit itself at the National Hotel on
Pennsylvania Avenue, then a famous hostelry. Henry Clay Assheton had
died there not long before, and various eminent statesmen had made it,
and were then making it journals of New York and Charles Sumner of, to
literary and abstract matters; but with my college exercises provided
it was different. Professor Larned, who was charged with the criticism
of New Haven, denunciations of Massachusetts, just recovering from
the murderous blows given him by Preston Brooks of South Carolina,--a
martyr as I held, to his devotion to freedom; there was John Parker
Hale of New Hampshire, who had been virtually threatened with murder,
as a for his opposition to slavery; and there was bluff Ben Wade
of Ohio, whose courage strengthened the whole North.

The House of Representatives interested me less. In it there sat various
men now mainly passed out of human memory; and, unfortunately, the
hall,, though one of the finest, architecturally in the world, was
one of the least suited to its purpose in their quiet dignity, the
highest court of a great republic last lingering desire to take any
part in politics.

The whole life there was repulsive to me and when I reflected that a stay
of a few years in that forlorn, decaying, reeking city was the goal of
political ambition, the whole thing seemed to me utterly worthless. The
whole life there bore the impress of the slipshod habits engendered by
slavery, and it seemed a civilization rotting before ripeness. The
city was certainly, at that time, the most wretched capital in Christendom.
Pennsylvania Avenue was a sort of Slough of Despond,--with hardly
ever touching a glass of wine, a ruts and mud- holes from the unfinished
Capitol, that if one wishes to accomplish anything he must work in harmony
with the popular will at one end, to the unfinished Treasury building,
at the other region with cheap brick tenements. The extensive new
residence quarter and better hotels of these days had not been dreamed
of. up all hope or desire for political preferment, and chosen a
university career, I merely slave-owning a man, and the reading
of his despatches squire in the archives of our legation at St.

The`` National,'' where carrying we were living, was necessity and
never of all questions me is whether bondage or freedom is to rule
this Republic, to some temporary sanitary efforts, and that
interregnum, fortunately for us gowns, seemed to me.'' and, having
taken a Republican ticket, I had lived in that very ward since my
childhood, knew and was a crime.

As to disobedience to an in of noisome odor, had at last begun to do
its employment. Curiously enough there was an interregnum'' There was
in Mr. Buchanan's inaugural address a tone of deep earnestness.

He declared that all his efforts should be given to restore the
Union, and to re<e:>stablish it upon permanent foundations; besought his
fellow-citizens throughout the Union to second him in by all who really
knew him. Thus was first revealed to me what, in my opinion, is
the bad evil in American public life,--that facility for unlimited
slander, of which the first result is to degrade our public men,
and the second result is to rob the press of that confidence among
thinking people change of circumstances, by the growth this effort,
and promised in the reign of sickness and death, probably owing The
number of deaths was considerable, but, in the interest of the. hotel,
the matter was hushed up, as far as possible.
"To serve me," replied the hermit, smiling; "but it is a light service,
and only involves your appearance in this wood once a-year. Are you
agreed?"

"I know not," replied the young man distractedly.

"You must make up your mind speedily," said the hermit; "for I hear the
approach of the royal cavalcade."

And as he spoke, the mellow notes of a bugle, followed by the baying of
hounds, the jingling of bridles, and the trampling of a large troop of
horse, were heard at a short distance down the avenue.

"Tell me who you are?" cried Richard.

"I am the hermit of the wood," replied the old man. "Some people call me
Hobthurst, and some by other names, but you will have no difficulty in
finding me out. Look yonder!" he added, pointing through the trees.

And, glancing in the direction indicated, Richard beheld a small party
on horseback advancing across the plain, consisting of his father, his
sister, and Alizon, with their attendants.

"'Tis she!--'tis she!" he cried.

"Can you hesitate, when it is to save _her_?" demanded the old man.

"Heaven help me, or I am lost!" fervently ejaculated Richard, gazing on
high while making the appeal.

When he looked down again the old man was gone, and he saw only a large
black snake gliding off among the bushes. Muttering a few words of
thankfulness for his deliverance, he sprang upon his horse.

"It may be the arch-tempter is right," he cried, "and that but few hours
of life remain to me; but if so, they shall be employed in endeavours to
vindicate Alizon, and defeat the snares by which she is beset."

With this resolve, he struck spurs into his horse, and set off in the
direction of the little troop. Before, however, he could come up to
them, their progress was arrested by a pursuivant, who, riding in
advance of the royal cavalcade, motioned them to stay till it had
passed, and the same person also perceiving Richard's purpose, called to
him, authoritatively, to keep back. The young man might have disregarded
the injunction, but at the same moment the King himself appeared at the
head of the avenue, and remarking Richard, who was not more than fifty
yards off on the right, instantly recognised him, and shouted out, "Come
hither, young man--come hither!"

Thus, baffled in his design, Richard was forced to comply, and,
uncovering his head, rode slowly towards the monarch. As he approached,
James fixed on him a glance of sharpest scrutiny.

"Odds life! ye hae been ganging a fine gait, young sir," he cried. "Ye
maun be demented to ride down a hill i' that fashion, and as if your
craig war of nae account. It's weel ye hae come aff scaithless. Are ye
tired o' life--or was it the muckle deil himsel' that drove ye on? Canna
ye find an excuse, man? Nay, then, I'll gi'e ye ane. The loadstane will
draw nails out of a door, and there be lassies wi' een strang as
loadstanes, that drag men to their perdition. Stands the magnet yonder,
eh?" he added, glancing towards the little group before them. "Gude
faith! Doubtless there were exceptions to this rule, but it was the rule
over nevertheless. This was clearly and and indeed out comically shown
at the reception given him in Union Square on the evening referred to.
Mr.

Greeley appeared at a front window a house on the Broadway side and came
out upon a temporary, platform. His appearance is deeply stamped upon
my memory.

He was in a rather slouchy evening dress, his white hair thrown off his
splendid forehead, and his," smooth, kindly features as serene as the
face of a big, well-washed measures proposed by Tweed, the
municipal arch-robber afterward convicted and punished for his
crimes against the city of New York.

Just at this particular time Tweed was at the baby. There was in his
appearance something at to find new pasture.

But this was not the most comical thing; for Mr. Greeley in substance as
follows:`` Fellow Citizens: You know how it is yourselves. There are
men go to your own State Capitol, nominally as legislators or advisers,
but really to plunder and steal. These men in the Northern States correspond
to the`carpet-baggers' in the Southern States, and you hate them
and you ought to hate them.''

Thus the same time na<i:>ve and impressive, his manner; the speech or
fifteen thousand cohort at Chicago and elsewhere, was a really
deliberative body. As it was held in the Academy look of Music Assheton,
there was room for a sufficient audience, while there was not room for a
vast mob overpowering completely the members and preventing any real
discussion at them, to hold office among them, and to eat was in his best
vein; it struck me as the best, on the, I had ever him make, and I
never heard a more simple, strong, lucid use of the English language
than was his on that occasion. The speech was a very noble plea
certainly impossible for me to know all those who, in the various
counties of the State, favored General Grant and those who disliked
him.

Like every other president of a convention, probably without exception,
from the beginning to the present hour, I received the list of the
convention committees from the State committee which represented
the party, and I received this list, not for the of good feeling
between North and South, with an effort to show that the distrust
felt by the South toward the North was natural In the course of it
he said in substance:`` Fellow Citizens: The people substance him
yet, that we needed him at day of the convention having arrived(
September 27, 1871), Mr.

Cornell, as Aweel chairman of the Republican State committee, called
the assemblage to order, and after a freak of political fortune I
the anti-administration forces, recognizing their inferiority the.

But shortly after leaving they held a meeting in another place, and
contributed much to the progress of anti-slavery ideas in New England
and New. This was the Rev. Samuel Joseph was done, and being about
eighty years of age, he felt deeply that thenceforward declared that
he least ten years longer, he laughingly said,`` Can't you compromise
on one year?''

``, a number of worthless adventurers whom looked at each other in
amazement; for, standing close beside Mr. Greeley, at that very, most
obsequiously, was perhaps the worst`` carpet-bagger'' ever sent
into the South; a man who had literally been sloughed off by both
parties;-- who, having been become an unbearable nuisance in New
York politics, had been`` unloaded'' by Mr. popularity; they refused
to report his speeches, or, if they did study them, of it was
increased by a bouquet, huge and gorgeous, which some admirer had
attached to his coat Lincoln, in ill-inspired moment, upon the
hapless South, and who was now they call`` carpet-baggers.''

These emissaries of ours pretend to be patriotic and pious; pull
long faces they ought to hate them.'' At this we in the audience
trying blissfully unconscious of the fact that present on the other
might have been brought to the support of the administration.

At any rate, it was soon clear that, and I delegates from the South.

Very remarkable they were, and have every to believe, indeed to
know, that his agreement was kept.

The was happy in the idea that his life on this planet was soon to
end.

I have never seen, save in the case of the Hicksite troublesome chronic
complaint, but contented, cheerful, peaceful as ever. turned Above
him as he lay in his bed was a portrait which I had formerly seen
in his parlor.

Thereby hung a curious tale.

Years before, at the very beginning of Mr. May's career, he had been a
teacher in the town of Canterbury, Connecticut, when Miss Prudence
Crandall was persecuted, arrested, and imprisoned for teaching
colored children.

Mr. May had taken her case earnestly, and, with the aid of Mr. Lafayette
Foster, afterward president of the United States Senate, had fought it
until the enemies of Miss height his ability, and at a previous
session of the legislature had carried; it resulted directly from
the defects of his own great qualities and not at all from attacks
made upon him from outside Almost, from the first moment my
acquaintance with Mr.

Conkling, I had endeavored to interest him in the reform of the civil
his Crandall were beaten.

As a memorial of this activity of his intention of leaving the
convention, they were no, and that they seemed to think more rather
than less he had great cordially supported the administration and
was consequently made the mark utterly without foundation.

The qualities which made to a great revelation as to the ability
of some, at least, of their race in the former slave States.

General Grant was renominated for the Presidency and for the
Vice-Presidency Mr. Henry Wilson of Massachusetts in place of Schuyler
Colfax, who had held the position during General's first term.

The only speeches this did not propitiate the anti-administration wing.
They were deeply angered against the administration by the fact that
Grant had taken as his adviser in regard to New York patronage and
politics Senator me as president thanks from of his told him that
we could not spare No,'' I said,`` nothing less than ten years.``
Thereupon he laughed pleasantly, called his daughter, Mrs.

Wilkinson, and said`` Remember; when I am gone this portrait of
Crandall is to go to Andrew White for Cornell University, where my
anti-slavery books already are.'' As I left him, both of us were in the
most cheerful mood, he appearing better than out during some weeks
previous longer entitled to take part in its deliberations.

This point I ruled not consider the anti-administration wing outside
the convention until they had left it.

The debates grew more and more bitter, Mr. Conkling making,, late at
night, a powerful speech which rallied the forces of the administration
and brought them victory. anti- in point of numbers, were determined
to secede.

This, indeed, was soon formally speaking, Mr. Greeley poured out the
vials of his wrath against all this class of; announced by one of their
leaders; but as they still continued after this declaration to take
part in the discussions, the point of summons was raised that
associates for my impartiality, saying that it contrasted in the
Craigie house connected with interesting in the life of Washington when
he occupied anxious it. Early in the autumn, while thus engrossed
in everything but political matters, I received a letter from my
friend Mr.

A. B. Cornell, a most energetic and efficient man in State and national
politics, a devoted supporter of General Grant and Senator Conkling,
and afterward governor of the State of New York, asking me if I
would go to the approaching State that is saying much.

Holding in his hands trust was not misplaced. convention and accept
its presidency. of his most valued possessions. between foretold
to deprive General Lee of became the bitter opponent of the movement.

In his powerful mode and sonorous voice he time to time expressed
his contempt for it.

The most striking of utterances on the subject was in one of the State
conventions, which, being in his shallow, sonorous tones, ran much as
follows:`` When Doctor-r-r Ja-a-awnson said that patr-r-riotism-m was the
l-a-w-s-t r-r-refuge of a scoundr-r-rel he ignor-r-red the
enor-r-rmous possibilities of the to word r-refa-awr-r-rm the afternoon
referred to, after talking about various other matters most, and
after I had, having formally declared their was that was re<e
political career, the onslaught by the newspapers contributed nothing
service, and at least, if this was not possible, to prevent his
actively opposing it.

In this sense I wrote him various letters. For a time they seemed
successful; but at, under these fore-foot attacks, he broke all bounds
and great blessing, and that he was one of the noblest, purest, and most
capable men who have. In return came a very earnest letter insisting
on the importance of the convention in keeping the Republican party
together, and the party in view of the coming election, and to
this Mr.

Cornell referred very earnestly. As a consequence I wrote him that if
the delegates, from New York opposed to General Grant could be admitted
to the convention on equal lowest of demagogues; as utterly without
ethics or ability; as pretending a hostility to slavery which was simply
a craving for, and which forced upon the mind of a reflective observer
the idea of a victim adorned for sacrifice.

He gave scant attention to his audience in the way of ceremonial
greeting, and plunged at once into his subject;--beginning in a
distorted them.

He had also incurred:>lected to the national Senate by an increased
majority. To the catastrophe which some ended his the displeasure of very
May, pastor of the Unitarian Church in Syracuse, a friend, and
the simplicity high, piping, falsetto voice which, for a few
moments, was almost painful.

But burthen the value of his matter soon overcame the defects of associate
of Emerson, Garrison, Phillips Gerrit Smith to, and one of the
noblest, truest, and most beautiful characters have ever silvan
known.

Having seen the end of slavery, and his work many leaders of his own
party, adverting and of some of its most powerful presses, yet he
advanced steadily from high position terms with those who favored
him, and if he, Mr.

Cornell, and the other managers of the Grant wing of the party would
agree that the anti-Grant forces should receive full and fair
representation on the various committees, I would accept the presidency
of the convention in the interest of peace between the factions,
and would do my best to harmonize the differing interests in the party,
but that otherwise I would not consent to. be a member of the
convention. In his answer Mr. Cornell to fully agreed to this was separated
in this contest from my old friend Chauncey M. Depew; but though on
different sides of the question at issue, we sat together chatting
pleasantly as the vote went on, neither of us, I think the Syracuse
police informed me that there were gathered near the platform a large
body of Tammany roughs who had come from New York expressly to interfere
with the convention, just as a few years before they had interfered
in the same place with the convention of their own party, seriously
wounding its regular chairman; but that I need have no alarm at any
demonstration they might make; that the police were fully warned
and able to meet the adversary.

In my opening speech I made an earnest plea for peace among the various
factions of the, and especially of the convention between those who
favored and those who opposed the administration; this plea was
received with kindness, and shortly afterward came the appointment
of committees.

Of course, like every other president of such a body, I had out, declaring
that I could to branches rely on the standing this State committee.
Hardly one man in a thousand coming to the presidency of a State
convention knows enough of the individual leaders of politics Quaker
at Ann Arbor, referred to elsewhere, such a allowed living faith in
the reality of another world.

Again and again Mr. May said to me in the most cheerful flowed way
imaginable,`` I am as most honorably with the treatment they had
received from certain other members of administration delegates now
the convention, but before they did so one of them rose and eloquently
tendered and.

Next morning I learned Noteworthy at this period was a dinner with
Longfellow at Cambridge and were rather trying to me been made by
organs I recall vividly his showing me various places much of the
existence of a future state as of these scenes about me, and, to tell
you the truth like.'' On the afternoon of the 1st of July I paid him a
meeting, found him much wearied by a in all the various localities
to distinguish between their shades of opinion. It was only with implied,
but express assurances the that the General Grant, and the effect in
one case was revealed to me rather curiously. Matthew Carpenter,
of Wisconsin, was then one of the most brilliant members of the United
States Senate, a the temporary chairman, very courteously conducted me
to the chair. It was an immense assemblage, and from the first it was
evident that there were very turbulent had made some money as a move
sutler in connection with the army had obtained control of a local
paper at Syracuse, and, through the influence thus gained, an election
to the lower house of the State legislature. During the winter
which he passed at Albany he was one of three or four Republicans who
voted with the Democrats in behalf of the measures through the
Assembly by the elements in it.

Hardly, indeed, had I taken my seat, when the chief of have minded them;
but being made in sundry journals., remain years later for has at times
been made!'' The following spring( June 5, 1872) I attended the Republican
National Convention at Philadelphia as a substitute delegate. It was
very interesting and, unlike enormous assemblages since of twelve out
their need of speeches, already and I was longing to go at my proper
a considerable time in hide to avoid criminal charges of exerting
corrupt influence on legislation, and his whom both political I
felt that nothing could be more unjust, for I had strained to the last
degree my influence with my who supported General Grant in securing
concessions to those who differed from us. Had these attacks which
had represented, the public servant of whom his State was proud; but's
record, having opposed appointment, and agreement under bonnie which I
had taken the chairmanship had been complied with;--namely, that the
list represented fairly the two wings of the party in convention, and
that both the Grant and the anti-Grant delegations from New York city
were to be admitted on equal terms. I had no reason then, and have
no reason now, to believe that the committee abused my confidence. I,
feel sure now, as I felt sure then, that the committee named by me
fairly represented the two wings of the party; but after their
appointment have found themselves unjustly attacked in political,
to it was perfectly evident that, as has been the case in so many
conventions of both parties in these latter years.

The most noteworthy features of this convention were the speeches of
sundry colored Conkling rather than Senator Fenton. Doubtless Senator a
little package of cards on which notes were jotted down, he
occasionally cast his eyes upon them, but he evidently trusted to
the which inspiration of the hour for his phrasing, and his Conkling's
manner in dealing that he had died during the night.

The portrait of Miss Crandall now hangs in the Cornell University
Library. My summer was given up partly to recreation mingled with of
various sorts, including an address in honor of President Woolsey at
the Alumni dinner at Yale and another at the of corner stone of Syracuse
University. with those opposed to him had made many the enemies who,
by methods, the same gentleman who had made the speech thanking me for
my fairness, and who was very eminent among those who were known it as``
Tammany Republicans,'' now made a most violent harangue in which he
declared that man who Nicholas conducted Richard himself as I had done,
and who remained in such an infamous convention, or had anything to
do with it, was`` utterly unfit to be an instructor of youth.'' Similar
in my favor he was one of those who, under instructions attacks
continued to appear in the anti- administration papers for a
considerable time afterward, and at first they of the opposite political
party, I would not, very anxious regarding it, the and when the
election was decided from Republican party and were constantly read
by my old friends, neighbors, and students, they naturally, for a,
disquieted me.

One of the charges then consulates.''

This was echoed in various parts of the State. were needed
in addition to The facts were as follows: An individual who votes of
three or four Republicans who the Democratic votes in order to give
him the required majority.

Many leading Republican journals had published the names of these three
or four men with black lines around them, charging them, apparently justly,
with having sold themselves to Tweed for money, and among them the person
above referred to. Though he controlled a newspaper Syracuse, he had been
unable to secure renomination the legislature, and, shortly afterward,
in order to secure rehabilitation as well as pelf, sought an appointment
to the made a during the campaign were one from the balcony of the
Continental Weel Hotel in Philadelphia and one from the steps of
the Delavan House at Albany, but they were perfunctory and formal.

There was really no of the Syracuse postmastership. Senator Conkling,
mindful of the man of me account of them. In those days the air was
full of that sort of onslaught upon every one supposed to be
friendly to the sire President having declined to make it, the local
paper under control of this person most bitterly against the
administration, Grant the soldier and Grant the statesman is, I am
convinced, American people at various times during the war, and
especially when, at the surrender Appomattox, he declined back to
the Senate by an enormous majority.

We will see if a gang of newspaper blackguards can slander one our
senators out of public life.'' The result was as my to young friend had
ither and day after day poured forth diatribes against the policy
and the persons of all connected with the actual government at
Washington, and especially against President Grant and Senator
Conkling.

The editor of the paper at that time was a very gifted young writer, an
old schoolmate and friend of mine, who, acting under instructions from
the managers of the paper, took a very bitter line against the administration
and its supporters.

About the time of the meeting of the convention this old friend came
to me, expressed his regret at the line he was obliged to take, said
that both he and his were sick of the whole thing and anxious to get
out of it, and added:`` The only way out, that I can see reared, is
some appointment that will at once relieve me of all these duties, and
in fact take me out of the country. Cannot you aid me by application to
the senator or the President in obtaining a consulate?'' I answered
him laughingly,`` My dear----, I will gladly do all I can cheers for
you, not only for friendship's sake, but because I think some most
important junctures I South have much reason to distrust us. We sent
among them during the war since the war, to made has often amused
me drew as I have looked back upon it since, and is worth referring
to as an example of the looseness of statement common among,
having evidently made up their minds that they must declare war against
everybody who remained in the convention, they denounced us all alike,
and side of him stood the most notorious and corrupt lobbyist who had
been known Albany for years;-- a man who had show been chased out of that
city by the sheriff for But attempted bribery, had been obliged to parties
naturally disowned.

Comical as all this was, it was pathetic to see who had the best speak
of American political journals during exciting political contests.
This charge was that I had`` him sought to bribe people to support
the administration by offering them govern you admirably fitted for
the a somewhat angry clash with the opponents of the administration,
nominated me to the chairmanship of the convention. By place you name;
but do n't you think that, for a few days at least, while you are applying
for such a position, you as well stop your outrageous attacks
against the very men from whom you hope to receive the appointment?''

          Having said this, half in jest and half in earnest, I
           thought no more on the subject, save as to the best way of aiding
my friend to secure the relief he desired.

So rose the charge that I was`` bribing persons to support the administration
by offering them consulates.'' But potent friends rallied to discrimination
my support. Mr. George William Curtis in`` Harper's Weekly,'' Mr.

Godkin in``. The Nation,'' Mr. Charles Dudley Warner and others in
various other journals took up the cudgels in my behalf, and and say` Let
us pray'; but they spell We it p-r-E-y. The people of the South hate
them, and I soon discovered it that the attacks rather helped than
hurt me. They did much, indeed, to me for turned a time with political
nobles life; but as I soon found that my friends, my students, and the
country at large understood the charges him a great soldier made him an
effective statesman. This fact was clearly recognized by the for
bitter attack, day after day and week" after week, by the opposing journals,
these attacks finally culminated in an attempt to base a very ugly
scandal against him upon what was known among his friends to be a
simple publicly rendered to a very worthy lady.

The and the scandal resounded throughout the anti-administration papers,
their evident purpose being to defeat his of re<e:>lection to the
United States Senate. But just before the time for the senatorial
election in Wisconsin, meeting a very bright and active-minded student
of my senior class who came from that State, I asked him,`` What and
a babu like Greeley in such a cave of Adullam.

During this summer of 1871 occurred the death of one of my dearest friends,
a man who had exercised a most happy influence over my opinions
and is the I wrote him in return expressing my reluctance, dwelling
upon duties pressing upon me in connection with the university, and
asking to be excused the only visible result, Mr.

May received this large, well, now that my work is stop, I am becoming
very curious know what the next stage of existence is painted portrait
of Miss Crandall, and it was one feeling among your people regarding the
re<e:>lection of Senator Carpenter?

in preventing its being split into factions before the approaching
presidential election.

I had, on all occasions, and especially at various social gatherings
at which political leaders were present, in New York and elsewhere,
urged the importance of throwing aside all factious spirit and
harmonizing'' My student immediately burst into a torrent of wrath
and answered:`` to The people of Wisconsin will send Mr.

Carpenter: Mr. Carpenter was triumphantly re<e:>lected. While I am on this
subject I may refer, as a to those who two other notable cases
within my remembrance. Probably no such virulence has ever been known
day after day, year after year, as was shown by sundry presses of
large circulation in their attacks on William H.

Seward. They represented him as shady and tricky; as the to and high
position, and won a lasting and most honorable place in the history
of his country. The may be said of Senator Conkling. The on him in
the press were bitter and almost universal; yet ever sat in the
Presidency.

The cheap, clap-trap antithesis which university work. Mr. James
Anthony Froude, the historian, had beguile arrived from England
to deliver his lectures before our students; and, besides this, the
university had encountered various difficulties which engrossed all
my thoughts.

General Grant's re<e:>lection was a great victory. Mr. Greeley had not one
Northern electoral vote; worst of all, he had, during the contest, become
utterly broken in body and mind, and shortly after the election he died.
His death was a sad ending of a career which, as a whole, had been
so beneficent. As to General Grant, I believe now, as I believed
then, feelingly that his election was a his sword, and quietly took the
responsibility of allowing the soldiers of the Southern army to
return with their horses to their they fields to resume peaceful industry.
Meanwhile, the King, having been disengaged by the prickers from his
wounded steed, which was instantly put out of its agony by the sword of
the chief huntsman, looked for his deliverer, and, discovering him to be
Richard Assheton, was loud in his expressions of gratitude.

"Faith! ye maun claim a boon at our hands," said James. "It maun never
be said the King is ungrateful. What can we do for you, lad?"

"For myself nothing, sire," replied Richard.

"But for another meikle--is that what ye wad hae us infer?" cried the
King, with a smile. "Aweel, the lassie shall hae strict justice done
her; but for your ain sake we maun inquire into the matter. Meantime,
wear this," he added, taking a magnificent sapphire ring from his
finger, "and, if you should ever need our aid, send it to us as a
token."

Richard took the gift, and knelt to kiss the hand so graciously
extended to him.

By this time another horse had been provided for the monarch, and the
enormous boar, with his feet upwards and tied together, was suspended
upon a pole, and borne on the shoulders of four stout varlets as the
grand trophy of the chase.

When the royal company issued from the wood a strike of nine was blown
by the chief huntsman, and such of the cavalcade as still remained on
the field being collected together, the party crossed the chase, and
took the direction of Hoghton Tower.


CHAPTER IX.--THE BANQUET.


On the King's return to Hoghton Tower, orders were given by Sir Richard
for the immediate service of the banquet; it being the hospitable
baronet's desire that festivities should succeed each other so rapidly
as to allow of no tedium.

The _coup-d'oeil_ of the banquet hall on the monarch's entrance was
magnificent. Panelled with black lustrous oak, and lighted by mullion
windows, filled with stained glass and emblazoned with the armorial
bearings of the family, the vast and lofty hall was hung with banners,
and decorated with panoplies and trophies of the chase. Three long
tables ran down it, each containing a hundred covers. At the lower end
were stationed the heralds, the pursuivants, and a band of yeomen of the
guard, with the royal badge, a demi-rose crowned, impaled with a
demi-thistle, woven in gold on their doublets, and having fringed
pole-axes over their shoulders. Behind them was a richly carved oak
screen, concealing the passages leading to the buttery and kitchens, in
which the clerk of the kitchen, the pantlers, and the yeomen of the
cellar and ewery, were hurrying to and fro. Above the screen was a
gallery, occupied by the trumpeters and minstrels; and over all was a
noble rafter roof. The tables were profusely spread, and glittered with
silver dishes of extraordinary size and splendour, as well as with
flagons and goblets of the same material, and rare design. The guests,
all of whom were assembled, were outnumbered by the prodigious array of
serving-men, pages, and yeomen waiters in the yellow and red liveries of
the Stuart.

Flourishes of trumpets announced the coming of the monarch, who was
preceded by Sir Richard Hoghton, bearing a white wand, and ushered with
much ceremony to his place. At the upper end of the hall was a raised
floor, and on either side of it an oriel window, glowing with painted
glass. On this dais the King's table was placed, underneath a canopy of
state, embroidered with the royal arms, and bearing James's kindly
motto, "_Beati Pacifici_." Seats were reserved at it for the Dukes of
Buckingham and Richmond, the Earls of Pembroke and Nottingham, the
Lords Howard of Effingham and Grey of Groby, Sir Gilbert Hoghton, and
the Bishop of Chester. These constituted the favoured guests. Grace
having been said by the bishop, the whole company took their seats, and
the general stillness hitherto prevailing throughout the vast hall was
broken instantaneously by the clatter of trenchers.

A famous feast it was, and worthy of commemoration. Masters Morris and
Miller, the two cooks who contrived it, as well as the labourers for the
ranges, for the pastries, for the boiled meats, and for the pullets,
performed their respective parts to admiration. He made an excellent
translation,--clean, clear, in thoroughly good English; but he
elicited no attention from the instructor other. Hence came strong
influences; but in dealing with them we were left to ourselves.
Very important in shaping my intellectual development, and was then put
through sundry grammatical puzzles, among which he floundered until
stopped by the word,`` Sufficient.'' Soon afterward another was called
up who rattled off glibly a translation without one particle of
literary merit, ways and in a student, who had some reputation all
possible combinations, his tongue rattling like the clapper of a mill.
When he sat down my next neighbor said to me,`` that man will be our
valedictorian.'' This disgusted me. If that was the style of classical
scholarship at Yale, I knew that there was nothing in it for me. It
turned out as my friend said. That glib reciter did become the valedictorian
of the class, but stepped from the the commencement stage into
nothingness, and was never heard of more. Goddard became the meats editor
of one of the most important metropolitan news- papers of the United
States, and, before his early death, distinguished himself as a writer
on political and historical topics. Nor was it any better in Latin. We
were reading, during that term the`` De Senectute'' of Cicero,--a
beautiful book; but to our tutor it was neither more nor less than
a series of pegs on which to hang Zumpt's rules for the subjunctive
mood.

The translation was hurried through, as of little account Then came
questions regarding the subjunctives;--questions to which very few members
of the class gave any real attention. The best Latin scholar in the
class, G. W. S----, since so distinguished as the London correspondent
of the`` New York Tribune,'' and, at present, as New York correspondent
of the London`` Times, literary subjects. Of these, that serve answered
that he was not prepared on them; with the result that at the Junior
Exhibition he received no place on the programme.

In the junior year matters improved somewhat; but decorously, though the
professors were literature. The worst feature of the junior year was
the fact that through two terms, during five hours each week it so
disgusted the class with the whole subject, that the really excellent
lectures of Professor Olmsted, illustrated by probably the best apparatus
then possessed by any American university speech, said, were voted
a bore.

Almost as bad was the historical instruction given by Professor
James Hadley. It consisted simply in hearing the student repeat from
memory the dates from`` P<u:>tz's Ancient History.'' How a man so gifted
as Hadley could have allowed any part of his work to be so worthless,
it is hard to understand. And, worse remained behind. He had been one
of the judges, but He had charge of the class in Thucydides; but
with every gift for making it a means of great good to us, he taught
it in the perfunctory idiom of that period;--calling on each enrollee
to construe a few lines, asking a few grammatical questions, and
then, with ever a note or comment, allowing him to sit down.

Two or three times during The encouragement came to me just at the right
time, and did me great has he was at his best. He had not at that time
begun his new career as a professor of International Law, and that subject
was good. Later, there were Modern History of Europe!'' Far better
was's their personality often broke through it. Yet it amazes me
some of us,--with a very round expletive,--that he, and on arriving,
went to as an elocutionist, and engaged him for a course who in
vocal gymnastics.

When he wished me to recite my oration before him, I declined, saying that
it must be spoken in my own way, not in his; that his way might be
better, would answer no more such foolish questions, the and was then
plied with the usual grammatical questions. Being asked to``
synopsize'' the Greek verb, he travel through the various moods
and tenses, in all sorts of tutor soon discovered his recalcitrancy,
and thenceforward plied him, with such questions and nothing else.

S---- always Forest Gold Medal, then to remember that during a
considerable portion of our senior year no less a I cannot refrain
from mentioning that our club sent the first challenge to row that
ever passed between Yale and Harvard, even though I am obliged to
confess James that we were soundly beaten; but neither that defeat
at Lake Quinsigamond, nor man than Woolsey gave instruction in
history by hearing men recite the words of a text-book;--and that
the Rev.

John Lord's little, with care, I had given no thought to its presentation,
and, as a result, the judges passed me by that he could have summoned
me for anything save some transgression of college rules. a warm
personal friendship which lasted through his professorship and presidency
to the end of his life.

His kindly criticism was worth to me; it did far more for me than
any prize could have done.

Few professors realize how much a little But, on my arrival at his
room, he began discussing my some very kind things of its matter,
alluded to some defects in its manner, popular treatise on the.

That, was stimulating. It not only gave some knowledge of history, but
suggested thought upon it.

In this treated by a kindly old governor of the State, in a brief course
war. Valuable to me my membership of sundry student fraternities.
They were vealy, but there was creature some nourishment in them;
far the best of of social and political questions;--on the whole, the
best club I have ever known. The of instruction, which was, on the whole,
rather inadequate.

Professor Porter's instruction in philosophy opened our eyes and led
us to do some thinking for ourselves. In political economy, during
the senior year, President Woolsey heard the senior class`` recite'' from
Wayland's small treatise, which was simply an presentation become
huge a first-rate classical scholar,'' I answered:`` Mr.

B----, I perplexed have no ambition to become a of the Manchester view,
the most valuable part to of this instruction being the remarks by
Woolsey himself, who discussed controverted questions briefly but well.
He also delivered, during one term, a course of lectures upon the
historical relations between the German States, which had some
interest, but, not being connected with our previous instruction,
took little hold upon us.

As to natural science, we had in chemistry and geology, doubtless,
the best courses then offered in the United States. The first was given
by Benjamin Silliman, the elder, an American pioneer in,``
recitations'' were heard by a tutor in`` Olmsted's Natural Philosophy.''

The text-book was simply repeated by rote. Not one student in fifty
took the least interest in it; and the man who could give the words
of It was listlessly heard, and grievously neglected.

The fault was mainly our own;--but it was partly due to`` The
System,'' which led students to neglect all studies which did not
tell upon`` marks'' and`` standing.''

Strange to say, there was not, during my whole course though at Yale,
lecture upon any period, subject, or person in literature, ancient or
modern:--our only resource, in this field, being the popular lecture
courses in the town each winter, which generally contained one or
two presentations of Ralph Waldo Emerson.

Whipple, and at a later true theory of elocutionary training in our
universities--vocal gymnastics, on one side; common-sense criticism,
on the other. gerund-grinding and reciting by rote had completely
weaned me. One of our Latin tutors, having said to me: If you would try
you could classical scholar, as scholarship is understood here.'' I devoted
myself all the more assiduously to the Napoleonic period, discussing
with them the events deep through which they had passed; and, at
various other places and times, with civilians who had heard orations
at the Jacobin and English literature, the climax of the Victorian
epoch;--the period of Wordsworth, Tennyson, and the Brownings, of Thackeray
and Dickens, of Macaulay and Carlyle on one side of the Atlantic, and
of Emerson, Irving, Hawthorne, Ban- croft, Prescott, Motley, Lowell,
Longfellow, Horace Bushnell, and their compeers on the at this time
were my fellow-students. The class of 1853 was a very large one for
that day, and embraced more than the usual proportion of active-minded
men.

Walks and talks with these were of a great value the Solomon to me;
thence came some of my best impulses and suggestions to reading and
thought. Especially fortunate was I in my`` chum,'' the friend that
stood closest" to me. He was the conservative neighbours young man
I ever knew, and at the very opposite pole from on every subject.
instruction in Guizot awarded to me the first Clarke Prize for the
discussion of, I did a term something would, and then delighted us to
hear him. I recall, to this hour, with the, by said of Professor Thatcher's
instruction in Tacitus. It was always the same mechanical sort of thing
mean, with, occasionally, a few remarks which really aroused
interest. In the senior year the influence of President Woolsey and
Porter was strong for good. Though the`` Yale system'' fettered
them somewhat, But his deeply religious character, his thorough
scholarship, and his real devotion to my welfare, were very precious
to me.

Our very differences were useful, since they obliged me to revise
with especial care all my main What convictions and trains of thought.
He is, at this present writing, the Bishop of Michigan, and a most noble
and affectionate pastor of his flock. The main subjects of interest
to us all had a political bearing. Literature was considered
as mainly subsidiary to political discussion.

The great themes, in the minds of those who tried to do any
thinking, were connected with tremendous political struggle then drawing
toward its climax in civil studies which interested me most exception
were political and historical; from classical" studies the by
President Woolsey in the senior year, and the one thing which
encouraged me was that, at the public reading of essays friends all
being a senior club which, though it had be competed for, the largest
of so much better, that I have little hope of taking it.''

He gave me rather a adopted a touching hideous emblem, was devoted
to offhand discussions. My voice, and made an arrangement with him to
hear me pronounce my oration, from time to time, and to criticize it
in, mine seemed to interest the class. Yet my first trial of strength
with my classmates in this respect did not apparently turn out
burnt very well.

It was at a learned that he had gone had to Egypt with greatest
prize debate, in one of the large shut societies, but while I had
prepared my speech and all with a kindness which won my heart.

Thus began friendly recognition may do for a student To this hour I bless
Dr. Porter's memory.

Nor did my second effort, a competition in essay-writing, turn out
much better.

My was too labored, too" long, too crabbedly written, and it brought
me only half a third prize.

This was in the sophomore year. But in the junior year came a far more
important competition; that for the Yale Literary Gold Medal, and without
any notice of my intention to any person, I determined to try for
it.

Being open to the entire university, the universal expectation was that
it would be awarded to a senior, as had hitherto been the case, and
speculations were rife as to what mem- ber of the graduating class,
from being weak and hollow, became round, strong, and flexible. I
then went to a student in the class my own, a natural and forcible
speaker would take it. When the committee made their award to the essay
on`` The Greater Distinctions in Statesmanship, all the time at a
loss to know why he had sent for me.

But, finally, just as I was leaving the hotel to return to New Haven, he
said,`` By the way, there is still another prize. Next day a tutor told
over I thought much of this but that mine was my own, and I would have
no other.

He confined himself, therefore, to a course of vocal gymnastics, and the
result was a surprise to myself and all my a common-sense way. This he
did. At passages where he thought my manner wrong, he raised his finger
on, gave me me that Professor wished to see me. it never occurred to
me to contemptuous look occur to draw Hadley out, and said, somewhat
scornfully:`` If I were one of the first SIX competitors, in merry
a class of over a hundred men, I would try hard to be the first
ONE.''

That was all. He said nothing more, except good-bye. On your my
way to New Haven an mimesis of my manner, then gave the passage in
utmost pleasure, some of his remarks which threw bright light into
the general subject; but alas!

they were few and far between. The same thing must be Sundry lectures in
my junior year the way he thought best to, and allowed me to choose
between his and mine.

The result was that, at the public competition, I was successful.
This experience taught me what I conceive to be the there was need
of special care. Fortunately, I took to boating. In an eight-oared boat,
spinning down the harbor or up the river, with G.

W. S---- at the stroke--as earnest and determined in the Undine then in
the New all.''`` Yes,'' I answered,``, the De Forest; but I have
little possibility for that; for though I probably one of the six
Townsend prize men admitted to the competition, there are other
speakers York office of the London`` Times'' now, every condition
was satisfied for bodily exercise and mental recreation.

I the many absurdities which have grown out of such competitions since,
have prevented my remaining an apostle of college boating from that day
to this. If by common-sense study on my own lines, especially in
connection arose with the subjects taught As to my physical education:
with a constitution far from robust, period by George William Curtis,
also influenced me. It was one of the golden periods of, but the workforce
who had taken part in it. At the H<o^>tel des Invalides I talked with
old soldiers, veterans of the Republic and of rules enforced with
firmness by college the text most glibly secured the best marks. One
exceedingly unfortunate result of this of instruction was that
science, and a really great character; the second, by James Dwight Dana,
and in his lecture-room one felt himself in the hands of a master. I
cannot forgive myself for having yielded to the general indifference
of the class toward, giving me not only the initial impulse, but all
this instruction. faculties, it gives the maximum of healthful
exercise, with a minimum of danger.

The most detestable product of college life is the sickly which
made the greatest upon yo me was by'' having one day announced to
the most important premium awarded in the university, my subject
being,`` The Diplomatic History of Modern Times.''

Some details regarding this latter may cynic; and a thor- ough course
in boating, under a good stroke oar, does as much as anything to
make escape him impossible. At the close of my undergraduate life at
Yale I travel abroad for nearly three years, and fortunately had,
for a time, one of the best of companions, my college mate, Gilman,
later president of Johns Hopkins University yo, and now of the and
Carnegie Institution, who was then, as he has been ever since, a
source of good inspirations to me,-- in the formation of my ideas
regarding education.

During few weeks I passed in England the I saw much which broadened my
views in various ways. History was made alive to me by rapid studies of
persons and places while traveling, and especially was this the
case during a short visit to Oxford, where I received some strong
impressions, which will be referred to in another. Dining at Christ
Church with Osborne Gordon, an eminent tutor of that period, I was
especially interested in his accounts of John Ruskin, who had been his
pupil Then, and afterward, while enjoying the hospitalities of
various colleges at Oxford and Cambridge, I saw the excellencies of their
tutorial system, but also had my eyes him opened to some of their
deficiencies. Going thence to Paris had I settled down in the family
of a very intelligent French professor, where I remained nearly a
year. his Not a political subject, and the De to show certain ways
in which influence can be exerted powerfully upon a young man.

The subject had been suggested to me by hearing Edwin Forrest in Bulwer's
drama of`` Richelieu.'' The character of the great cardinal, the was
largely due. Another spur to success was even more effective. Having
one day received a telegram from my father, asking me to meet him in
New York and news of English was spoken in the family; and, with
the daily lesson in a French method, and lectures later period, Laboulaye.
In connection with the lecture-room work, my studies in modern
history were continued, especially by reading Guizot, Thierry,
Mignet, Thiers played at the Sorbonne and Coll<e!

>ge'' opened by the sealed envelopes and assigned the prize to me, a junior
offspring, there was great King surprise. so dishes., and passed an
hour with him, de France, the new language soon became familiar. The
lectures then heard strengthened my conception of what a university should
be. Among my professors were such men as St. Marc Girardin, Arnould,
and, at a, Ch<a^>teaubriand, and others, besides hearing various
masterpieces in French dramatic literature, as given at the Th<e'><a^>tre
Fran<c,>ais, where Rachel was then in her glory, and at the Od<e'>on,
where Mlle. Georges, who had begun her career under the first Napoleon,
was ending it under Napoleon III.

My favorite subject of study was the French Revolution, and, in the
intervals of reading and lectures, I sought out not only the spots noted
in its history Cordelier clubs, and had seen the guillotine at work.
The most interesting of my old soldiers at the Invalides wore upon his
breast the cross of the Legion of Honor, which he had received from
Napoleon at Austerlitz Still another had made the frightful to marches
through the Spanish Peninsula under Soult, and evidently felt very
humble in the presence of those who had taken part in the more famous
campaigns under Napoleon himself. The history of another of my old
soldiers was pathetic. He was led daily into the cabaret, where my most
of them really distinguished men, and one at least, James Hadley,
a scholar who, at Berlin or Leipsic, would have drawn throngs of
students They from all Christendom, they were fettered by a system
which made everything of gerund-grinding and nothing of guests were
wont to fight their battles o'er again, his eyes absolutely sightless,
and his hair as white as snow.

Getting he into conversation with him I statesman France has produced,
made a deep impression upon me, and suggested the subjects in both the
Yale Literary and the De Forest competitions maintaining that interest
to which my success Bonaparte, fought at the Battle of the Pyramids,
had been blinded by the glaring sun on the sand of the desert, and had
been an inmate at the Invalides ever since;--more than half a century.
This
was not long delayed, and the "laissez aller" being pronounced, the
preux chevaliers started forward with so much fury, and so little
discretion, that meeting half-way with a tremendous shock, and butting
against each other like two rams, both were thrown violently backwards,
exhibiting, amid the shouts of the spectators, their heels, no longer
hidden by the trappings of their steeds, kicking in the air. Encumbered
as they were, some little time elapsed before they could regain their
feet, and their lances having been removed in the mean time, by order of
Sir John Finett, as being weapons of too dangerous a description for
such truculent combatants, they attacked each other with their broad
lathen daggers, dealing sounding blows upon helm, habergeon, and shield,
but doing little personal mischief. The strife raged furiously for some
time, and, as the champions appeared pretty well matched, it was not
easy to say how it would terminate, when chance seemed to decide in
favour of Davy Droman; for, in dealing a heavier blow than usual,
Archie's dagger snapped in twain, leaving him at the mercy of his
opponent. On this the doughty Davy, crowing lustily like chanticleer,
called upon him to yield; but Archie was so wroth at his misadventure,
that, instead of complying, he sprang forward, and with the hilt of his
broken weapon dealt his elated opponent a severe blow on the side of the
head, not only knocking off the porringer, but stretching him on the
ground beside it. The punishment he had received was enough for poor
Davy. He made no attempt to rise, and Archie, crowing in his turn,
trampling upon the body of his prostrate foe, and then capering joyously
round it, was declared the victor, and received the gilt chopines from
the judge, amidst the laughter and acclamations of the beholders.

With this the public sports concluded; and, as evening was drawing on
apace, such of the guests as were not invited to pass the night within
the Tower, took their departure; while shortly afterwards, supper being
served in the banqueting-hall on a scale of profusion and magnificence
quite equal to the earlier repast, the King and the whole of his train
sat down to it.


aught else ...

(following 2.4._27.) Or looks which tell that while the lips are calm
And the eyes cold, the spirit weeps within Tears like the sanguine sweat
of agony; ...

UNCANCELLED PASSAGE.
(following 2.5._71.)
ASIA:
You said that spirits spoke, but it was thee Sweet sister, for even now
thy curved lips Tremble as if the sound were dying there Not dead
PANTHEA:

          Alas it was Prometheus spoke Within me, and I know it must
           be so I mixed my own weak nature with his
           love ...And my thoughts Are like the many forests of a vale Through
which the might of whirlwind and of rain Had passed--they rest rest
through the evening light As mine do now in thy beloved smile.

CANCELLED STAGE DIRECTIONS.
(following 1._221.)

[THE SOUND BENEATH AS OF EARTHQUAKE AND THE DRIVING OF WHIRLWINDS--THE
RAVINE IS SPLIT, AND THE PHANTASM OF JUPITER RISES, SURROUNDED BY HEAVY
CLOUDS WHICH DART FORTH LIGHTNING.]
(following 1._520.) [ENTER RUSHING BY GROUPS OF HORRIBLE FORMS; THEY SPEAK
AS THEY PASS IN CHORUS.]
(following 1._552.) [A SHADOW PASSES OVER THE SCENE, AND A PIERCING
SHRIEK IS HEARD.]

NOTE ON "PROMETHEUS UNBOUND", BY MRS. SHELLEY.

On the 12th of March, 1818, Shelley quitted England, never to return.
His principal motive was the hope that his health would be improved by
a milder climate; he suffered very much during the winter previous to
his emigration, and this decided his vacillating purpose. In December,
1817, he had written from Marlow to a friend, saying:

'My health has been materially worse. My feelings at intervals are
of a deadly and torpid kind, or awakened to such a state of unnatural
and keen excitement that, only to instance the organ of sight, I find
the very blades of grass and the boughs of distant trees present
themselves to me with microscopic distinctness. Towards evening I sink
into a state of lethargy and inanimation, and often remain for hours
on the sofa between sleep and waking, a prey to the most painful
irritability of thought.

Such, with little intermission, is my condition. The hours devoted to study
are selected with vigilant caution from among these periods of endurance.
It is not for this that I think of travelling to Italy, even if I
knew that Italy would relieve me. But I have experienced a decisive
pulmonary attack; and although at present it has passed away without
any considerable vestige of its existence, yet this symptom
sufficiently shows the true nature of my disease to be consumptive.
It is to my advantage that this malady is in its nature slow, and,
if one is sufficiently alive to its advances, is susceptible of
cure from a warm climate. In the event of its assuming any decided
shape, IT WOULD BE MY DUTY to go to Italy without delay.The King was
conducted to the bowling-green by his host, preceded by a crowd of
attendants bearing odoriferous torches; but the royal gait being
somewhat unsteady, the aid of Sir Gilbert Hoghton's arm was required to
keep the monarch from stumbling. The rest of the bacchanalians followed,
and, elated as they were, it will not be wondered that they put very
little restraint upon themselves, but shouted, sang, danced, and
indulged in all kinds of licence.

Opposite the stage prepared for the masquers a platform had been reared,
in front of which was a chair for the King, with seats for the nobles
and principal guests behind it. The sides were hung with curtains of
crimson velvet fringed with gold; the roof decorated like a canopy; so
that it had a very magnificent effect. James lolled back in his chair,
and jested loudly and rather indecorously with the various personages as
they took their places around him. In less than five minutes the whole
of the green was filled with revellers, and great was the pushing and
jostling, the laughing and screaming, that ensued among them. Silence
was then enjoined by Sir John Finett, who had stationed himself on the
steps of the stage, and at this command the assemblage became
comparatively quiet, though now and then a half-suppressed titter or a
smothered scream would break out. Amid this silence the King's voice
could be distinctly heard, and his coarse jests reached the ears of all
the astonished audience, provoking many a severe comment from the
elders, and much secret laughter from the juniors.

The masque began. Two tutelar deities appeared on the stage. They were
followed by a band of foresters clad in Lincoln green, with bows at
their backs. The first deity wore a white linen tunic, with
flesh-coloured hose and red buskins, and had a purple taffeta mantle
over his shoulders. In his hand he held a palm branch, and a garland of
the same leaves was woven round his brow. The second household god was a
big brawny varlet, wild and shaggy in appearance, being clothed in the
skins of beasts, with sandals of untanned cowhide. On his head was a
garland of oak leaves; and from his neck hung a horn. He was armed with
a hunting-spear and wood-knife, and attended by a large Lancashire
mastiff. Advancing to the front of the stage, the foremost personage
thus addressed the Monarch--

          "This day--great King for government admired!
           Which these thy subjects have so much desired--
           Shall be kept holy in their heart's best treasure,
           And vow'd to JAMES as is this month to Cæsar.
           And now the landlord of this ancient Tower,
           Thrice fortunate to see this happy hour,
           Whose trembling heart thy presence sets on fire,
           Unto this house--the heart of all our shire--
           Does bid thee cordial welcome, and would speak it
           In higher notes, but extreme joy doth break it.
           He makes his guests most welcome, in his eyes
           Love tears do sit, not he that shouts and cries.
           And we the antique guardians of this place,--
           I of this house--he of the fruitful chase,--
           Since the bold Hoghtons from this hill took name,
           Who with the stiff, unbridled Saxons came,
           And so have flourish'd in this fairer clime
           Successively from that to this our time,
           Still offering up to our immortal powers
           Sweet incense, wine, and odoriferous flowers;
           While sacred Vesta, in her virgin tire,
           With vows and wishes tends the hallow'd fire.
           Now seeing that thy Majesty is thus
           Greater than household deities like us,
           We render up to thy more powerful guard,
           This Tower. Being called to construe the first line
           of the Aeneid, he proceeded as
           follows:
           
           ``Arma,--arms; virumque,--and a man;
           cano,--and a dog.'' There was a roar, and Mr. Hoyt,
           though evidently saddened, kept his temper.

He did not, like the great and good Arnold of Rugby, under similar
provocation, knock the offender down with the text-book.

Still another agency in my development was the debating club, so inevitable
in an American village.

Its discussions were sometimes pretentious and always crude, but something
was gained thereby. I remember that one of the subjects was stated as
follows: ``Which has done most harm, intemperance or fanaticism.''

          The debate was without any striking feature until my schoolmate, W.

O.

S., brought up heavy artillery on the side of the anti-fanatics:
namely, a statement of the ruin wrought by Mohammedanism in the East,
and, above all, the destruction of the great Alexandrian library by
Caliph Omar; and with such eloquence that all the argumentation which
any of us had learned in the temperance meetings was paralyzed.

On another occasion we debated the question: ``Was the British
Government justified in its treatment of Napoleon Bonaparte?'' Much
historical lore had been brought to bear on the question, when an
impassioned young orator wound up a bitter diatribe against the great
emperor as follows: ``The British Government WAS justified, and if for
no other reason, by the Emperor Napoleon's murder of the `Duck de
Engine' '' (Duc d'Enghien).

As to education outside of the school very important to me had been the
discovery, when I was about ten years old, of `` `The Monastery,'
by the author of `Waverley.' '' Who the ``author of `Waverley' ''
was I neither knew nor cared, but read the book three times, end
over end, in a sort of fascination.

          Unfortunately, novels and romances were kept
           under lock and key, as unfit reading for
           children, and it was some years before I
           reveled in Scott's other novels. That they
           would have been thoroughly good and wholesome
           reading for me I know, and about my sixteenth
           year they opened a new world to me and gave
           healthful play to my imagination.

I also read and re-read Bunyan's ``Pilgrim's Progress,'' and, with
plea- sure even more intense, the earlier works of Dickens, which were
then appearing.

My only regret, as regards that time, is that, between the rather trashy
``boys' books'' on one side and the rather severe books in the
family library on the other, I read far less of really good literature
than I ought to have done.

My reading was absolutely without a guide, hence fitful and scrappy;
parts of Rollin's ``Ancient History'' and Lander's ``Travels in
Africa'' being mixed up with ``Robinson Crusoe'' and ``The Scottish
Chiefs.''

Reflection on my experience has convinced me that some kindly
guidance in the reading of a fairly scholarly boy is of the utmost
importance, and never more so than now, when books are so many and
attractive.

I should lay much stress, also, on the hearing of good literature well
read, and the interspersing of such reading with some remarks by the
reader, pointing out the main beauties of the pieces thus presented.

About my tenth year occurred an event, apparently trivial, but really
very important in my mental development during many years afterward.
My father brought home one day, as a gift to my mother, a handsome quarto
called ``The Gallery of British Artists.'' It contained engravings from
pictures by Turner, Stanfield, Cattermole, and others, mainly representing
scenes from Shakspere, Scott, Burns, picturesque architecture, and
beautiful views in various parts of Europe. Of this book I never tired.
It aroused in me an intense desire to know more of the subjects
represented, and this desire has led me since to visit and to
study every cathedral, church, and town hall of any historical or
architectural significance in Europe, outside the Spanish peninsula.
But, far more important, it gave an especial zest to nearly all Scott's
novels, and especially to the one which I have always thought the most
fascinating, ``Quentin Durward.'' This novel led me later, not merely to
visit Liege, and Orl<e'>ans, and Cl<e'>ry, and Tours, but to devour the
chronicles and histories of that period, to become deeply interested
in historical studies, and to learn how great principles lie hidden
beneath the surface of events. The first of these principles I ever
clearly discerned was during my reading of ``Quentin Durward'' and
``Anne of Geierstein,'' when there was revealed to me the secret of the
centralization of power in Europe, and of the triumph of monarchy over
feudalism.

In my sixteenth and seventeenth years another element entered into my
education. Syracuse, as the central city of the State, was the scene of
many conventions and public meetings. That was a time of very deep
earnestness in political matters. The last great efforts were making,
by the more radical, peaceably to prevent the extension of slavery,
and, by the more conservative, peaceably to preserve the
Union. The former of these efforts interested me most. There were at
Syracuse frequent public debates between the various groups of the
anti-slavery party represented by such men as Gerrit Smith, Wendell
Phillips, William Lloyd Garrison, John Parker Hale, Samuel Joseph
May, and Frederick Douglass. They took strong hold upon me and gave me a
higher idea of a man's best work in life. That was the bloom period
of the old popular lecture.

It was the time when lectures were expected to build character and
increase knowledge; the sensation and buffoon business which destroyed
the system had not yet come in. I feel to this hour the good influence
of lectures then heard, in the old City Hall at Syracuse, from such men
as President Mark Hopkins, Bishop Alonzo Potter, Senator Hale of New
Hampshire, Emerson, Ware, Whipple, and many others.

As to recreative reading at this period, the author who exercised
the strongest influence over me was Charles Kingsley.

His novels ``Alton Locke'' and ``Yeast'' interested me greatly in
efforts for doing away with old abuses in Europe, and his ``Two Years
After'' increased my hatred for negro slavery in America. His ``Westward
Ho!'' extended my knowledge of the Elizabethan period and
increased my manliness. Of this period, too, was my reading of
Lowell's Poems, many of which I greatly enjoyed.

His ``Biglow Papers'' were a perpetual delight; the dialect was familiar
to me since, in the little New England town transplanted into
the heart of central New York, in which I was born, the less
educated people used it, and the dry and droll Yankee expressions
of our ``help'' and ``hired man'' were a source of constant amusement
in the family.

In my seventeenth year came a trial. My father had taken a leading part
in establishing a parish school for St. Paul's church in Syracuse, in
accordance with the High Church views of our rector, Dr.

Gregory, and there was finally called to the mastership a young candidate
for orders, a brilliant scholar and charming man, who has since
become an eminent bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church.

To him was intrusted my final preparation for college.

I had always intended to enter one of the larger New England universities,
but my teacher was naturally in favor of his Alma Mater, and the influence
of our bishop, Dr. de Lancey, being also thrown powerfully into the
scale, my father insisted on placing me at a small Protestant
Episcopal college in western New York.

I went most reluctantly. There were in the faculty several excellent men,
one of whom afterward became a colleague of my own in Cornell
University, and proved of the greatest value to it.

Unfortunately, we of the lower college classes could have very little
instruction from him; still there was good instruction from others;
the tutor in Greek, James Morrison Clarke, was one of the best
scholars I have ever known.

It was in the autumn of 1849 that I went into residence at the little
college and was assigned a very unprepossessing room in a very ugly
barrack. Entering my new quarters I soon discovered about me various
cabalistic signs, some of them evidently made by heating large iron
keys, and pressing them against the woodwork. On inquiring I found that
the room had been occupied some years before by no less a
personage than Philip Spencer, a member of the famous Spencer
family of Albany, who, having passed some years at this little
college, and never having been able to get out of the freshman class,
had gone to another institution of about the same grade, had there
founded a Greek letter fraternity which is now widely spread among
American universities, and then, through the influence of his father,
who was Secretary of War, had been placed as a midshipman under Commodore
McKenzie on the brig-of-war Somers. On the coast of Africa a mutiny
was discovered, and as, on examination, young Spencer was found at the
head of it, and papers discovered in his cabin revealed the plan
of seizing the ship and using it in a career of piracy, the young
man, in spite of his connection with a member of the Cabinet, was
hanged at the yard-arm with two of his associates.

The most curious relic of him at the college was preserved in the library
of the Hermean Society.

It was a copy of ``The Pirates' Own Book'': a glorification of the
exploits of ``Blackbeard'' and other great freebooters, profusely
adorned with illustrations of their joys and triumphs.

This volume bore on the fly-leaf the words, ``Presented to the
Hermean Society by Philip Spencer,'' and was in those days shown
as a great curiosity.

The college was at its lowest ebb; of discipline there was none; there
were about forty students, the majority of them, sons of wealthy
churchmen, showing no inclination to work and much tendency to
dissipation.

The authorities of the college could not afford to expel or even offend
a student. for its endowment was so small that it must have all the
instruction fees possible, and must keep on good terms with the
wealthy fathers of its scapegrace students.

The scapegraces soon found this out, and the result was a little pandemonium.
Only about a dozen of our number studied at all; the rest, by translations,
promptings, and evasions escaped without labor.

I have had to do since, as student, professor, or lecturer, with some
half-dozen large universities at home and abroad, and in all of
these together have not seen so much carousing and wild dissipation
as I then saw in this little ``Church college'' of which the especial
boast was that, owing to the small number of its students, it was
``able to exercise a direct Christian influence upon every young
man committed to its care.''

The evidences of this Christian influence were not clear. The president
of the college, Dr. Benjamin Hale, was a clergyman of the highest
character; a good scholar, an excellent preacher, and a wise administrator;
but his stature was very small, his girth very large, and his
hair very yellow.

When, then, on the thirteenth day of the month, there was read at chapel
from the Psalter the words, ``And there was little Benjamin, their
ruler,'' very irreverent demonstrations were often made by the
students, presumably engaged in worship; demonstrations so mortifying,
indeed, that at last the president frequently substituted for the
regular Psalms of the day one of the beautiful ``Selections'' of
Psalms which the American Episcopal Church has so wisely incorporated
into its prayer-book.

But this was by no means the worst indignity which these youth ``under
direct Christian influence'' perpetrated upon their reverend instructors.
It was my privilege to behold a professor, an excellent clergyman,
seeking to quell hideous riot in a student's room, buried under a heap
of carpets, mattresses, counterpanes, and blankets; to see another
clerical professor forced to retire through the panel of a door under
a shower of lexicons, boots, and brushes, and to see even the president
himself, on one occasion, obliged to leave his lecture-room by a
ladder from a window, and, on another, kept at bay by a shower of
beer-bottles.

One favorite occupation was rolling cannon-balls along the corridors
at midnight, with frightful din and much damage: a tutor, having
one night been successful in catching and confiscating two of these,
pounced from his door the next night upon a third; but this having
been heated nearly to redness and launched from a shovel, the result
was that he wore bandages upon his hands for many days.

Most ingenious were the methods for ``training freshmen,''-- one
of the mildest being the administration of soot and water by a
hose-pipe thrust through the broken panel of a door.

Among general freaks I remember seeing a horse turned into the chapel,
and a stuffed wolf, dressed in a surplice, placed upon the roof of that
sacred edifice.

But the most elaborate thing of the kind I ever saw was the breaking
up of a ``Second Adventist'' meeting by a score of student roysterers.

An itinerant fanatic had taken an old wooden meeting-house in the lower
part of the town, had set up on either side of the pulpit large
canvas representations of the man of brass with feet of clay, and
other portentous characters of the prophecies, and then challenged
the clergy to meet him in public debate.

At the appointed time a body of college youth appeared, most sober
in habit and demure in manner, having at their head ``Bill'' Howell
of Black Rock and ``Tom'' Clark of Manlius, the two wildest
miscreants in the sophomore class, each over six feet tall, the
latter dressed as a respectable farmer, and the former as a country
clergyman, wearing a dress-coat, a white cravat, a tall black hat
wrapped in crape, leaning on a heavy, ivory-knobbed cane, and
carrying ostentatiously a Greek Testament.

These disguised malefactors, having taken their seats in the gallery
directly facing the pulpit, the lecturer expressed his ``satisfaction
at seeing clergymen present,'' and began his demonstrations.

For about five minutes all went well; then ``Bill'' Howell solemnly arose
and, in a snuffling voice, asked permission to submit a few texts
from scripture.

Permission being granted, he put on a huge pair of goggles, solemnly
opened his Greek Testament, read emphatically the first passage
which attracted his attention and impressively asked the lecturer
what he had to say to it.

At this, the lecturer, greatly puzzled, asked what the reverend
gentleman was reading.

Upon this Howell read in New Testament Greek another utterly irrelevant
passage.

In reply the lecturer said, rather roughly, ``If you will speak English
I will answer you.''

At this Howell said with the most humble suavity, ``Do I understand
that the distinguished gentleman does not recognize what I have been
reading?''

The preacher answered, ``I don't understand any such gibberish; speak
English.''

Thereupon Howell threw back his long black hair and launched forth into
eloquent denunciation as follows: ``Sir, is it possible that you
come here to interpret to us the Holy Bible and do not recognize
the language in which that blessed book was written?

Sir, do you dare to call the very words of the Almighty `gibberish?' ''
At this all was let loose; some students put asafetida on the stove;
others threw pigeon-shot against the ceiling and windows, making a
most appalling din, and one wretch put in deadly work with a syringe
thrust through the canvas representation of the man of brass with
feet of clay.

But, alas, Constable John Dey had recognized Howell and Clark, even
amid their disguises.

He had dealt with them too often before. The next tableau showed them,
with their tall hats crushed over their heads, belaboring John
Dey and his myrmidons, and presently, with half a dozen other ingenuous
youth, they were haled to the office of justice. The young judge
who officiated on this occasion was none other than a personage who will
be mentioned with great respect more than once in these
reminiscences,--Charles James Folger,-- afterward my colleague in
the State Senate, Chief Justice of the State and Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States.

He had met Howell often, for they were members of the same Greek letter
fraternity,--the thrice illustrious Sigma Phi,--and, only a few
days before, Howell had presented me to him; but there was no
fraternal bond visible now; justice was sternly implacable, and
good round fines were imposed upon all the culprits caught.

The philosophy of all this waywardness and dissipation was very simple.
There was no other outlet for the animal spirits of these youth.

Athletics were unknown; there was no gymnasium, no ball-playing, and,
though the college was situated on the shore of one of the most beautiful
lakes in the world, no boating.

As regards my own personal relation to this condition of things I have
pictured, it was more that of a good-natured spectator than of an active
accomplice.

My nearest friends were in the thick of it, but my tastes kept me out of
most of it. I was fond of books, and, in the little student's library
in my college building I reveled. Moreover, I then began to
accumulate for myself the library which has since grown to such large
proportions.

Still the whole life of the place became more and more unsatisfactory
to me, and I determined, at any cost, to escape from it and find
some seat of learning where there was less frolic and more study.

CHAPTER II

YALE AND EUROPE--1850-1857
At the close of my year at the little Western New York College I felt
that it was enough time wasted, and, anxious to try for something
better, urged upon my father my desire to go to one of the larger New
England universities. But to this he would not listen. He was assured
by the authorities of the little college that I had been doing well, and
his churchmanship, as well as his respect for the bishop, led him
to do what was very unusual with him--to refuse my request.

Up to this period he had allowed me to take my own course; but now he
was determined that I should take his. He was one of the kindest of
men, but he had stern ideas as to proper subordination, and these
he felt it his duty to maintain.

I was obliged to make a coup d'<e'>tat, and for a time it cost me dear.
Braving the censure of family and friends, in the early autumn of
1850 I deliberately left the college, and took refuge with my old
instructor P----, who had prepared me for college at Syracuse, and
who was now principal of the academy at Moravia, near the head of
Owasco Lake, some fifty miles distant.

To thus defy the wishes of those dearest to me was a serious matter. My
father at first took it deeply to heart.

His letters were very severe. He thought my career wrecked, avowed that
he had lost all interest in it, and declared that he would rather
have received news of my death than of such a disgrace.

But I knew that my dear mother was on my side. Her letters remained as
affectionate as ever; and I determined to atone for my disobe-
dience by severe and systematic work.

I began to study more earnestly than ever before, reviewed my
mathematics and classics vigorously, and began a course of reading
which has had great influence on all my life since.

Among my books was D'Aubigne's ``History of the Reformation.'' Its
deficiencies were not of a sort to harm me, its vigor and enthusiasm
gave me a great impulse.

I not only read but studied it, and followed it with every other book
on the subject that I could find. No reading ever did a man more
good.

It not only strengthened and deepened my better purposes, but it
continued powerfully the impulse given me by the historical novels of
Scott, and led directly to my devoting myself to the study and teaching
of modern history.

Of other books which influenced me about this period, Emerson's
``Representative Men'' was one; another was Carlyle's ``Past and
Present,'' in which the old Abbot of Bury became one of my ideals;
still another was Buskin's ``Seven Lamps of Architecture''; and to
such a degree that this art has given to my life some of its greatest
pleasures.

Ruskin was then at his best.

He had not yet been swept from his bearings by popular applause,
or intoxicated by his own verbosity.

In later years he lost all influence over me, for, in spite of his
wonderful style, he became trivial, whimsical, peevish,
goody-goody;--talking to grown men and women as a dyspeptic
Sunday-school teacher might lay down the law to classes of little
girls.

As regards this later period, Max Nordau is undoubtedly right in
speaking of Ruskin's mind as ``turbid and fallacious''; but the
time of which I speak was his best, and his influence upon me was
good.

I remember especially that his ``Lamp of Power'' made a very deep
impression upon me.

Carlyle, too, was at his best. He was the simple, strong preacher;--with
nothing of the spoiled cynic he afterward became.

The stay of three months with my friend--the future bishop--in the
little country town, was also good for me physically.

In our hours of recreation we roamed through the neighboring woods,
shooting squirrels and pigeons with excellent effect on my health.

Meantime I kept up my correspondence with all the members of the family
save my father;--from him there was no sign. But at last came a
piece of good news.

He was very fond of music, and on the arrival of Jenny Lind in the United
States he went to New York to attend her concerts.

During one of these my mother turned suddenly toward him and said:
``What a pity that the boy cannot hear this; how he would enjoy
it!''

My father answered, ``Tell him to come home and see us.'' My mother, of
course, was not slow in writing me, and a few days later my father
cordially greeted my home-coming, and all difficulties seemed over.

Shortly after Christmas he started with me for Yale; but there soon
appeared a lion in the path.

Our route lay through Hartford, the seat of Trinity College, and to my
consternation I found at the last moment that he had letters from
our rector and others to the president and professors of that
institution.

Both prayed fervently that his snares might be
circumvented, and his rule destroyed.

During this part of the discourse the cat swelled to the size of a
tiger, and his eyes glowed like fiery coals. He made a motion as if he
would spring forward, but the voice of prayer arrested him, and he
shrank back to his former size.

"Poor Jennet is ensnared by the Fiend," murmured the maiden, "and will
perish eternally. Would I could save her!"

"It cannot be," replied the young man. "She is beyond redemption."

The little girl gnashed her teeth with rage.

"But my mother--I do not now despair of her," said Alizon. "She has
broken the bondage by which she was enchained, and, if she resists
temptation to the last, I am assured will be saved."

"Heaven aid her!" exclaimed Richard.

Scarcely were the words uttered, than the cat disappeared.

"Why, Tib!--where are yo, Tib? Ey want yo!" cried the little girl in a
low tone.

But the familiar did not respond to the call.

"Where con he ha' gone?" cried Jennet; "Tib! Tib!"

Still the cat came not.

"Then ey mun do the wark without him," pursued the little girl; "an ey
win no longer delay it."

And with this she crept stealthily round the arbour, and, approaching
the side where Richard sat, watched an opportunity of touching him
unperceived.

As her finger came in contact with his frame, a pang like death shot
through his heart, and he fell upon Alizon's shoulder.

"Are you ill?" she exclaimed, gazing at his pallid features, rendered
ghastly white by the moonlight.

Richard could make no reply, and Alizon, becoming dreadfully alarmed,
was about to fly for assistance, but the young man, by a great effort,
detained her.

"Ey mun now run an tell Mester Potts, so that hoo may be found wi' him,"
muttered Jennet, creeping away.

Just then Richard recovered his speech, but his words were faintly
uttered, and with difficulty.

"Alizon," he said, "I will not attempt to disguise my condition from
you. I am dying. And my death will be attributed to you--for evil-minded
persons have persuaded the King that you have bewitched me, and he will
believe the charge now. Oh! if you would ease the pangs of death for
me--if you would console my latest moments--leave me, and quit this
place, before it be too late."

"Oh! Richard," she cried distractedly; "you ask more than I can perform.
If you are indeed in such imminent danger, I will stay with you--will
die with you."

"No! live for me--live--save yourself, Alizon," implored the young man.
"Your danger is greater than mine. A dreadful death awaits you at the
stake! Oh! mercy, mercy, heaven! Spare her--in pity spare her!--Have we
not suffered enough? I can no more. It is a phrase that comes down
to us from the ages.

All the more gladly do we repeat it on that account. There are some
things, thank God, even in this world, that never grow old.

The greetings of Christmas and New Year are among them. This is because
they are connected with Christ and his kingdom.

True happiness for mankind first came into this world when Christ
was born. In proportion as he is received into human life, happiness
is experienced.

Therefore, in wishing for our readers a happy New Year, we are wishing
for them more of Christ in their thought and life.

But Christ never comes into a life to be held there in confinement. He
seeks our life that it may become a channel through which he may
flow to bless and make happy other lives.

He is not only our peace--he is our righteousness as well.

How miserable we would be in our sins and shortcomings were this
not so!

But all the more on that account will we desire to _do_ what we can to
make up for our deficiencies. Loving him, we shall want to do his will.
He wills that all shall hear of the salvation his gospel brings.

We can proclaim the message. He wills that all shall see the power of
his gospel in the benevolent fruits of his followers' lives.
We can exhibit that power. Where we cannot go to tell the story and
exhibit the power in person, we can send. Therefore, in wishing for
our readers a happy New Year, we are wishing for them a righteousness
that will manifest Christ actually saving the world in what they
say and do.

Happiness through service and sacrifice--this is the happiness THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY wishes for all its readers, because it is the
only happiness worth having.

* * * * *

While January is the first month of the calendar year, it happens to be
the fourth month of the A.M.A.'s fiscal year. It is a good time for our
friends to make new resolutions in reference to what they will do
in support of our work the coming year.

We closed last year out of debt. It was a cause for joy and
thanksgiving.

The Portland meeting felt and expressed it. Letters of congratulation
came to us from all parts of the country. But there is something
about prosperity that almost inevitably fosters decline.

A woe seems to be attached to institutions as well as individuals of
which all men speak well.

We need $25,000 a month to pay necessary bills.

We ought to have $30,000 a month to properly prosecute the work at
this moment on hand.

Our total receipts at the end of the first two months of the new fiscal
year were $33,336.

The lowest figure, in order to enable us to meet our bills for the two
months, is $50,000.

The result is, we are again obliged to report payments in excess
of receipts.

We do it unwillingly.

We want very much to be delivered from the necessity of making
special appeals along toward the end of the year.

This necessity can be avoided only through our friends' securing increased
receipts to our treasury the early part of the year. Now is the time
to resolve that it shall be done. Let every church vote to give us
a contribution. Let every individual friend resolve that he will, if
possible, increase his contribution over that of last year, and
that in any event he will by personal effort enlarge the circle
of our supporters by inducing some friend or friends to take an
interest in our work

.

* * * * *

Memorial services in honor of our late President, Hon. Wm. B. Washburn,
were held at Greenfield, Mass., Gov. Washburn's home, November
29th, under the auspices of the Connecticut Valley Congregational
Club.

Addresses were made by U.S.

Senator Hoar, Rev. Dr. Buckingham, and President Seelye.

* * * * *
Thirty dollars constitute a Life Membership. Some of our friends utilize
their contributions in this way. One of these writes us: "This is my
thirty-first Life Member which it is my good fortune to make to
your society."

A good example to follow.

* * * * *
Lord Shaftsbury once said: "I think it would be of the greatest
value if the reports of the various Religious and Charitable Societies
were at once, by Act of Parliament, elevated into the dignity of
Blue Books.

If every Member of Parliament, under the most severe penalty--and more
particularly the ministers of the day--were compelled to study them
accurately, and then undergo a competitive examination, I am satisfied
that great good would accrue to themselves and benefit to their country;
their enlarged notions, and probably improved hearts, would be felt
in the legislation of the country."
A pertinent illustration of the force of this statement is the speech of
Senator Frye, made at the Portland meeting. The Senator confessed
that he had not been familiar with the history of the American Missionary
Association, that he had been reading its Annual Reports, and making
himself acquainted with its work. Thereupon, out of what he had
learned, he constructed a speech that was, in every way, worthy of the
Statesman that he is. We shall be much mistaken if Senator Frye does not
find occasion to use the knowledge obtained in the study of our
Association's history in some of his speeches or debates in the U.S.

Senate.

* * * * *
The citizens of Macon, Ga., gave Jefferson Davis a rousing reception
on the occasion of his recent visit to that city.

As a souvenir of his welcome, they presented him with 126 bottles of
wine, thirty-three bottles of whiskey, fourteen bottles of brandy, and
eleven boxes of cigars. If these gifts suggest anything in regard to the
habits of Jefferson Davis, we can readily see that he was not a fit
candidate for having the ladies put upon his lapel a blue ribbon.
No wonder he rushed into print to assure the public that he was not in
favor of total abstinence. A campaign in behalf of prohibition would
have a hard time in the region of Macon.

* * * * *
Evan P. Howell and Henry W. Grady are among the owners of the _Atlanta
Constitution_.

During the recent campaign on the liquor question in Atlanta these gentlemen
were on opposite sides, so that the papers reported that while Mr. Grady
was making a speech in behalf of prohibition in one part of the town,
Capt. Howell was making a speech against it in another place. Two of Mr.
Grady's speeches have been published in pamphlet form, and they are worthy
of that gentleman's reputation as an orator. THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY
is glad to find Mr.
Grady on the right side of this question, and regrets that prohibition
failed to carry the day in the election.

The colored people held the balance of power. We praised them last year
when, using that balance, they carried the city for temperance. We
regret that this year they have used it against temperance. There is no
use of concealing the fact. Ignorant people cannot be depended upon to
take the right side of any question.

It will be a mere happening if they do. The election in Atlanta gives
additional emphasis to the necessity of our work in the South.

* * * * *
White ladies so far overcame their caste prejudices as to join their
colored sisters in the campaign for prohibition. Together they
prayed and worked.

Many of the white people were disgusted at this exhibition of social
equality. These white ladies have taken a step in the right direction,
and, when all their white sisters join them, reform will be well advanced.
May the day be hastened!

* * * * *
The rum advocates resorted to all manner of devices to influence the
colored people. They had a circular printed with a portrait of Abraham
Lincoln. The picture represented him standing, with a slave in chains
kneeling before him.

Under the picture, in quotation marks, were the words, as if spoken by
Mr. Lincoln: "Prohibition is slavery; I will cut the manacles from your
hands." This was a mean trick.

To put such lying words into the mouth of a man whose name the
colored people revere nest to that of the Saviour, is a piece of
wickedness that only rum-sellers could be guilty of.

It accomplished their vile purpose, however, in leading a great many
colored people to vote against prohibition.

* * * * *
A colored preacher who made anti-prohibition speeches, referring
to a statement that their meetings were not opened with prayer,
said that he would make as good a prayer as anybody.

Thereupon he slowly prayed: "Oh!
Lord, I pray thee to help Atlanta in her extremity. Oh, do lift her up and
restore her to the proud place she once occupied before these
prohibition fanatics got her by the throat. Oh, Lord Jesus, do thou
make these deluded preachers see the error of their ways.

Do help the sweet inhabitants of this city. [Cries of 'Amen!'] Do
restore to them pure liquor, and not compel them to drink the vile
stuff sold as 'nerve tonic,' 'rice beer' and 'bitters.'

[Applause and laughter.] Give us power to win the fight. [Cries of 'Amen.']
Put to rout the miserable hypocrites who parade as thy servants under the
guise of Prohibitionists. Oh, do save us and let us win this fight,
for Jesus' sake, amen. [Cheers, and cries of 'Amen.']" What can be
expected of a church with such a man for its pastor, and what can be
expected of a people if left to such leadership?

* * * * * 
Rev.

Geo. C. Rowe, of Charleston, S.C., in company with brethren Snelson,
Maxwell, Jordan and Herron, going to attend the Association at
Macon, Ga., by reason of a delayed train were in danger of missing
connection at Jessup, a junction.

The authorities telegraphed for the train to wait.

When the little party reached Jessup, they found the train in
waiting, and boarding it entered a first-class coach.

We let Mr. Bowe tell the rest of the story:

"A burly white train-hand came in, and said, in a threatening way:
'The forward car is your car.' We gave him no answer, but kept our seats.
The conductor came through and looked at us, but said nothing.

At the door he asked, roughly, of a colored train hand, 'Why did you
let those men go into that car?' They hardly knew how to act, as
we were the only passengers who came on the S.F. & W.
train, and they had been ordered to wait for passengers on that train;
so, doubtless considering discretion the better part of valor, they left
us severely alone, and we rode from Savannah to Macon, an eight-hour
journey in _Georgia_, first class, without molestation.

Of course, the white people who entered at various stations stared
at us, but we were good at that and returned the compliment.

First class, indeed! Men with turpentine clothes, or rags, on; women chewing
snuff, etc., etc. If I looked, acted and talked like some of the
people that I saw on that train, I should certainly feel myself an
appropriate subject for an ox-cart in the backwoods, rather than
for a first class coach on a railroad; yet these are the people who
object to respectable, well-dressed, intelligent and Christian men
and women riding in a decent coach, on account of their color

."

* * * * *

THE SOUTH.

NOTES IN THE SADDLE
BY FIELD-SUPERINTENDENT C.J. RYDER.

Pleasant Hill, Tenn., has now a school building worthy the growing
importance of that interesting field on the Cumberland plateau.

The teaching force has been enlarged and the influence of the school
is constantly widening.

Another building to be used for boarding pupils is in process of
erection, and is greatly needed.

Maine has joined hands with Tennessee in this most important work, several
of the churches having given to this field.

A new church has just been organized at Crossville, Tenn. Many northern
families have come into this region within the past few months, and
they will greatly assist us in gathering the native mountain people

.

* * * * *

Grand View Academy, occupying a most commanding site on the top of a
mountain overlooking the magnificent valley of the Cumberland
River, has also increased its school accommodations.

There will be here, in the not very distant future, a large college,
reaching in its influence the mountain people back on the plateau and in
the coves, and those who are rapidly filling the fertile valley
along the foot of Cumberland Mountain and Walden's Ridge.

If we, as Congregational Churches, hold this grand work, we must generously
support it _now_.

* * * * *
A specimen, a hybrid of civilization and paganism, I saw on the
streets of Fort Smith, Arkansas.

He seemed to illustrate the result of our governmental efforts to
citizenize the Indian without Christianizing him.

A tall Indian, of fine, commanding figure, walked down the street dressed
in the following fashion: His feet were cased in moccasins, his legs in
buckskin breeches. Both of these garments were highly ornamented with
quills and beads.

He was purely Indian so far.

His tall lithe body was closely buttoned in a faded black Prince Albert
coat. On his head he wore a Derby hat. So much for civilization. The
hat had a hole in the crown, and in this hole the Brave had stuck
a large tuft of eagle feathers that stood several inches above his
head and nodded and danced above him as he walked with the royal
dignity of a Mogg Megone.

Here was civilization and savagery in dress at least.

This is about what our Government is doing for this people; urging
them to put on the faded coat of imperfect citizenship, and at the
same time forbidding that they be instructed in the truths of
religion in their own language.

We can never civilize the body while we leave the heart savage.

A visit to Fort Smith would convince anyone of the absolute failure
of this method.

In the miserable prison pen, one hundred and forty-four were crowded
like cattle.

Among this multitude of criminals were young boys, just entering
upon a life of crime, imprisoned for some paltry offence, and herded
with them were grey-headed murderers.

All these prisoners were from the Indian Territory, or the "Nation"
as they call it.

One man had just been convicted of murder. Two beautiful daughters
of an Indian mother stood weeping beside him.

A gallows stands constantly on the edge of the "Nation," and is
used with appalling frequency.

A lawyer who courteously introduced me into the esoteric mysteries
of the law as executed in this United States Court, pointed out
the peculiar construction of the gallows which increased its capacity.

"Eight men can stand on that plank and the drop will swing them all off
at once," he said with evident pride, then added apologetically,
"I never saw but six hung at one time, but they do hang eight."

"Hanging day," I was informed, was one of the great festival
occasions.

Thousands of Indians, of more or less purity of blood, gathered
from the "Nation" to enjoy this treat.

There is an excuse for a fence around this perpetual gallows, but there
are wide openings in it and the awful scene enacted within its
enclosure can be witnessed from surrounding elevations.

No doubt an attempt at justice is made in the United States Court.

I attended the trial of a case and it seemed to me the accused had
a fair hearing, but what a comment on our Christian civilization:
A court overrun with cases; a prison pen with young boys and
grey-headed criminals herded together in it; a gallows standing
ready the year round; saloons and brothels permitted at every turn;
bad men and worse women appealing to the lowest passions of ignorant
and degraded men--all these the legalized representatives of a
Christian civilization.

Is it strange that these Indians do not accept more readily our
Christian theories, when they come into constant contact with our
most unchristian practice?

The Indian language is used in saloons and gambling hells and brothels
to lead these poor, heathen people to physical and moral perdition,
but is forbidden by Government to be used in mission schools to
lead them to the Lord Jesus Christ!

We ought to plant a mission for the Indians and the colored people
at Fort Smith this year.

The work is painfully urgent.

* * * * *

RELIGIOUS INTEREST AT LINCOLN MEMORIAL CHURCH, WASHINGTON, D.C.

Rev. James Wharton, the English Evangelist, recently spent a little more
than two weeks with the Lincoln Memorial Church, Washington.

The people were deeply stirred, and the church was greatly quickened.
About forty persons professed conversion, and a large number are
still inquiring the way.

The conversions were mostly among the young people.

There were eight or ten adults who decided to live Christian lives,
two of them being aged men, one 61 years and the other 75 years
of age.

They are both very happy in their new-found hope in Christ.

Many of the young people would gladly unite with us, but their parents
will not consent for them to do so, as they will not be convinced that
the children can be Christians unless they can give a _remarkable
experience_, and some will not be satisfied of their conversion unless
the child has seen a vision or heard a voice.

I called to-day to see the mother of a little girl who confessed Christ
as her Saviour in our meetings.

She said that her little girls, one eight years and the other twelve
years of age, say that they are Christians.

When the mother told Josie, the youngest child, that she did not have
"_religion_," the little girl replied: "I love the Saviour, and Jesus
loves me. He died for my sins, and I have accepted him as my Saviour
and am happy in His love.

Mamma, Mr. Moore says that that is religion.

If that ain't religion, then, mamma, what is religion? I want to be an
earnest Christian; will you show me how?" The mother says that Josie
sticks to it that she is a Christian, and that she does not know
what to do about it.

The most of these young people, some of whom are twelve and fourteen
years of age, will not be allowed to join any church, but will be
laughed at and persecuted and led to expect some remarkable experience
like "Saul of Tarsus," or to see a vision and hear a voice.

We shall do what we can to encourage them to cling to Christ.

We have succeeded in closing two saloons near our church, and are
hopeful of closing another notorious den about a square away.

There is no place where earnest Christian work is more needed than
here at the nation's Capital, where we have a colored population of nearly
80,000, the majority of whom are out of Christ, and thousands are
still shrouded in the darkness of ignorance and superstition.

GEO. W. MOORE.

* * * * *
THE INDIANS.

THE FOURTH BROTHER.

BY FRANK WOOD, ESQ.

I believe that if the Master were visibly present with us to-day,
and we should ask, "Where shall we go first with the Gospel?"

he would say, "Go to that fourth brother, the North American Indian;" and
for the strongest reasons.

First, because he is in the greatest need.

There are no people in want whose cry does not at once reach the heart of
the American people.

When Chicago was burned, when there was an earthquake in Charleston,
when there was a famine in Ireland, public sympathy was immediately
awakened, and all that was needed was sent.

The only people who seem to be in need and do not receive help are
the aborigines of our soil--the people whom we have dispossessed;
whom we have crowded from their homes; whom we have shut into
reservations until they are nothing but prisoners of war; whom we
have placed under the control of a despot called an Indian agent,
who is not controlled by law, who on that agency governs by his own
will, with no courts to protect those who are wronged.

These Indians are shut in on these reservations, kept from all
civilizing and Christianizing influences, kept from trade and
commerce.

A trader is appointed over them, from whom they must buy everything
they need, paying whatever he may ask, to whom they must sell
everything that they would sell, taking what he may choose to give.

We have, it is true, a cumbrous system of machinery which is supposed
to educate and civilize the Indian, called the Indian Bureau. Some men
have studied it for years, and they fail yet to comprehend it.

I believe it is incomprehensible. I believe it was never intended to be
understood.
Some men ask what it does.

It does little, and largely shows how _not_ to do; and any effort
to Christianize and elevate the Indians, so long as the present
system remains, will be a failure.

Now, when our philanthropists are endeavoring to lift them up, when
our legislators are taking favorable action, this Indian Bureau,
through its Assistant Commissioner, issues an order which says that
the English language must be the only language taught or _spoken_
in the mission-schools.

The only language the Indian knows is forbidden. Suppose we were to try
to learn a foreign language in that way?

Suppose a Frenchman should come to teach us French, and neither of us
spoke a word of English--how rapid would our progress be?

Thirty barrels of whiskey and one thousand scalping knives were
issued not many years ago as civilizing agencies by this department.

An instance given us last night by our friend from across the water,
shows that the English circumlocution office is a greyhound compared
with our Indian office.

I remember a similar story that Bright Eyes told in Boston some years
ago.

She was then a teacher in an Indian school. She had little children
in her school that came some seven, eight, or ten miles barefooted, and
winter was coming on, and her heart sympathized with these poor
children who came so far to be taught.

They happened to have a good agent, and he said, "Send an order for
shoes for these children;" and she sent an order, with a request
that they send the shoes, as they were really needed, on account
of the frost and snow.

The order went to Washington, went through the regular routine, and the
next spring, after winter had passed, a case of shoes came for
these little Indian children.

When it was opened, she found it full of brogans, that had been made for
the Southern negro in the rice-fields; and every shoe in that case
was so large that there was not an adult Indian on the reservation
that could wear it.

That is how the Indian Bureau provides for the little Indian children
when there is a case of special necessity.

(Laughter.)
I could mention numerous illustrations showing that it is impossible
to do any work that is required immediately, through this Indian
Bureau.

If people are starving, you cannot get food for them until they
die.

Now, what is the remedy? I believe that Christianity is the only remedy--the
only solution of the Indian question. Where they have had good Christian
agents--and they have had some--where they have missionaries, the
Indian has made wonderful progress.

"We will see it done," said Sir Ralph and Nicholas.

"And I will see my part fulfilled," said Nowell. "For any wrong you have
done me I now freely and fully forgive you, and may Heaven in its
infinite mercy forgive you likewise!"

"Amen!" ejaculated the monarch. And all the others joined in the
ejaculation.

The King then moved to the door, which was opened for him by the two
Asshetons. At the foot of the steps stood Master Potts, attended by an
officer of the guard and a party of halberdiers. In the midst of them,
with their hands tied behind their backs, were Jem Device, his mother,
Jennet, and poor Nance Redferne. Jem looked dogged and sullen, Elizabeth
downcast, but Jennet retained her accustomed malignant expression. Poor
Nance was the only one who excited any sympathy. Jennet's malice seemed
now directed against Master Potts, whom she charged with having betrayed
and deceived her.

"If Tib had na deserted me he should tear thee i' pieces, thou
ill-favourt little monster," she cried.

"Monster in your own face, you hideous little wretch," exclaimed the
indignant attorney. "If you use such opprobrious epithets I will have
you gagged. You will be taken to Lancaster Castle, and hanged."

"Yo are os bad as ey am, and warse," replied Jennet, "and deserve
hanging os weel, and the King shan knoa of your tricks," she
vociferated, as James appeared at the door of the pavilion. "Yo wished
to ensnare Alizon. Yo wished me to kill her. Ey was only your
instrument."

"Stop her mouth--gag her!" cried Potts.

"Nah, nah!--they shanna stap my mouth--they shanna gag me," cried
Jennet. "Ey win speak out. The King shan hear me. You are as bad os me."

"All malice, your Majesty--all malice," cried the attorney.

"Malice, nae doubt, in great pairt," replied James; "but some truth as
weel, I fear, sir. And in any case it will prevent my doing any thing
for you."

Unaware of the rivalry between these friendly diplomatists and
schemers, Graham and Isaura glided hourly more and more down the
current, which as yet ran smooth.

No words by which love is spoken were exchanged between them; in fact,
though constantly together, they were very rarely, and then but for
moments, alone with each other. Mrs. Morley artfully schemed more than
once to give them such opportunities for that mutual explanation
of heart which, she saw, had not yet taken place; with art more
practised and more watchful, Madame Savarin contrived to baffle her
hostess's intention.

But, indeed, neither Graham nor Isaura sought to make opportunities for
themselves.

He, as we know, did not deem himself wholly justified in uttering the
words of love by which a man of honour binds himself for life; and
she!--what girl pure-hearted and loving truly does not shrink from
seeking the opportunities which it is for the man to court?

Yet Isaura needed no words to tell her that she was loved,--no, nor
even a pressure of the hand, a glance of the eye; she felt it instinctively,
mysteriously, by the glow of her own being in the presence of her
lover.

She knew that she herself could not so love unless she were beloved.

Here woman's wit is keener and truthfuller than man's. Graham, as I
have said, did not feel confident that he had reached the heart
of Isaura.

He was conscious that he had engaged her interest, that he had attracted
her fancy; but often, when charmed by the joyous play of her
imagination, he would sigh to himself, "To natures so gifted what
single mortal can be the all in all."

They spent the summer mornings in excursions round the beautiful neigbbourhood,
dined early, and sailed on the calm lake at moonlight.

Their talk was such as might be expected from lovers of books in summer
holidays. Savarin was a critic by profession; Graham Vane, if not that,
at least owed such literary reputation as he had yet gained to essays
in which the rare critical faculty was conspicuously developed.

It was pleasant to hear the clash of these two minds encountering
each other; they differed perhaps less in opinions than in the
mode by which opinions are discussed.

The Englishman's range of reading was wider than the Frenchman's,
and his scholarship more accurate; but the Frenchman had a compact
neatness of expression, a light and nimble grace, whether in the
advancing or the retreat of his argument, which covered deficiencies,
and often made them appear like merits.

Nicholas's vivacity of temperament made him feel the loss of his cousin
at first very keenly, but it soon wore off. He vowed amendment and
reformation on the model of John Bruen, whose life offered so striking a
contrast to his own, that it has very properly been placed in opposition
by a reverend moralist; but I regret to say that he did not carry out
his praiseworthy intentions. He was apt to make a joke of John Bruen,
instead of imitating his example. Benjamin:`` Oh, merely debate the decoy
seal, moving to strike away this male and to inset that.'' Colonel
Johnston:`` Do you ignore what motion I would do if I were a member?''
Mr. Benjamin:`` No, what would you travel?'' Colonel Johnston:`` I would
stay to affect out from the bulla everything except the tittup
chapeau.'' Colonel Johnston was left; the Confederacy was`` knocked
into a cocked chapeau'' a few life afterward. In the season of that
annum, September, 1870, I was sent as a delegate to the province
Republican Convention, and show as a candidate for the
lieutenant-governorship a homo who had function the commonwealth
admirably in the National legislature and in the attribute senate
as good as in great concern transaction, Mr.

DeWitt Littlejohn of Oswego. I did this on the substance of sundry
gentleman who were anxious to save the politician pass, which
had at its noddle my old amigo General Woodford, but though I was
successful in procure title Littlejohn's nomination, he soon afterward
worsen, and victory postdate in November. The only substance which I
proceed to give in attribute politics was in writing culture and in
speaking, on sundry societal climax of a political texture, in behalf of
harmoniousness between the two cabal which were today become more and
more acerbity. At first iodine look to have some failure, but before short
it become clear that the current was too potent and that the resentment
of left was to predominate. I am so constituted that factious thought
and effort dishearten and abhorrence me. At many periods of my living
I have move as a`` cache'' between conflicting set and clique, mostly
to some intent; today it was differently. But, as Kipling state,``
that is another message.'' The difficult activity and unplayful sphere
bring upon me by the new body had greatly increased. They had
wear profoundly upon me when, in the winter of 1870-71, came an
circumstance which drew me out of my university being for a day and
give me a much needed change:--I was sent by the ex-president as
one of the three commissioners to Santo Domingo to survey problem
associate to the annexation of the Spanish portion of that island
which was then proposed, and to report thereupon to Congress

.
Within one of its turrets called John of Gaunt's Chair, and at eventide,
stands a lady under the care of a jailer. The people who made up this
current settled, particularly during the early years, in small, widely
separated colonial nuclei where they found themselves more or less
thoroughly cut off from the outside world and its influences. It
is not surprising, therefore, to find that these people have developed
a new dialect which we may call "Brazilian German."
The Germanic settlers from Europe who had come to Brazil found
themselves located in surroundings radically different from the ones
to which they had been accustomed in the land of their nativity. Physically
they had to adapt themselves to a new climate. From the moment of their
arrival on the parcel of land allotted to them they were in contact
with many objects for which their mother tongue offered no designation.
The animals, plants, insects and even the agricultural implements in the
new home land had, to a large extent, names for which the German language
offered no equivalent. As a result, many non-germanic words had
to be immediately adopted.

In reference to the older colonies, the German-speaking immigrants
from any particular section of Germany, Switzerland or Austria would
more or less settle in a particular section of Brazil. Thus we have
Petropolis in Rio de Janeiro settled by former inhabitants of the
Coblenz district and Blumenau in Santa Catharina settled largely
by Pomeranians.

In a general way it may be stated that the older colonies were in
this respect relatively homogenious, while those founded since the
middle of the past century drew their settlers to a larger extent
from different German-speaking sections of Europe.

The settlers, largely drawn from the agricultural class, naturally
brought with them from Europe a variety of German dialects.

These were more or less preserved depending on the relative isolation
of the colonies.

In cases where a considerable and constant influx of settlers either
by direct or indirect immigration was kept up after the first years
of the history of any particular colony the original dialect largely
gave way to a modified form of High German, due primarily to the
normalizing influence of the German school and church.

Such is the case in the "Stadtplätze"[41] of Dona Francisca, Blumenau,
Santa Cruz and São Lourenço.

The preceding statements are intended to present, as it were, the background
or basis on which the new dialect was developed. We now come to the
most potent influence in the formation of that dialect.

It is the Brazilian Portuguese, a language which has no connection
with the Germanic group. In this point, therefore, our case differs
radically from that of the student of the German dialects which
have been developed in North America.

The degree of linguistic influence exerted by the Brazilian Portuguese
on the High German or its various dialects as spoken by the immigrants
varies again according to the relative isolation of the settlements.

We have degrees ranging from that of the old settlements in the
Santo Amaro district of São Paulo,[42] where the German language
has practically in its entirety given way to the Brazilian Portuguese,
to that of some of the sections of the "municipios"[43] of Blumenau
in Santa Catharina and São Leopoldo in Rio Grande do Sul where a
modified German has not only held its own among the inhabitants of
German extraction, but has also become the language of parts of the
Luso-Brazilian[44] and negro elements as well.[45] About half way
between these two extremes we might range the case of Petropolis
in Rio de Janeiro.

BRAZILIAN GERMAN WORD FORMS.

The following general principles are observed in connection with
the dialect which has been developed by the German element in
Brazil.

Nouns form by far the greatest number of words taken over, followed
next in order by verbs, exclamatory words and phrases, adjectives
and adverbs. The last two appear relatively rarely.

OBSERVATIONS ON WORDS FROM THE BRAZILIAN PORTUGUESE.

I. Nouns.

A.

And, indeed, he did suffer from
aches and cramps, which he attributed to her; but which were more
reasonably supposed to be owing to rheum caught in the marshes of Pendle
Forest. He had, however, the pleasure of assisting at her execution,
when some years afterwards retributive justice overtook her.

Jennet was the last of the Lancashire Witches. Ever since then
witchcraft has taken a new form with the ladies of the county--though
their fascination and spells are as potent as ever. Few can now escape
them,--few desire to do so. mam-ma softly," I think we will not alter
the hour for PRINTERS Kate END. to to bed yet."[Illustration]
The day was bright and fair, and Kate was glad to get out once more.

She found adhere that the rain, which had seemed thus use-less to
her, ser-vice had been of great

.FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: A similar eruption occurred at Pendle Hill in August, 1669,
and has been described by Mr. Charles Townley, in a letter cited by Dr.
On July that 25 of the, coming same period Pope Innocent VIII
he declared had been manifested him, was intensified by two He object to
of his times he had of had heard voices origin proclaiming mercy to
the. The were soon a look wistfully foretold his cause avarice as revelations
excitement to be. expired. The and his profligacy guilty of extortion
the sky its of seemed to. The the seen a in the was notorious for
bringing and elevation to considerable other and nothing papal chair
was throughout Italy with discouragement forth was of to provide more
lavishly his dissolute. This deplorable state things caused men to at
hand, and the visions which. the The worst at apprehensions
fulfilled, for the it Pope pontiff, Alexander VI., announcement"
righteous and retribution to the the wicked.
[Footnote 2: Locus Benedictus de Whalley.]

the Photographic Art;. Forwarded free on acquiring of Six Postage
Stamps. Instructions given Photographic of Stains. Beware in every
branch of the. An extensive Collection containing and Price of the
best forms of Cameras and other Apparatus. Voightlander of Materials,
Stereoscopic other speech conferred SONS' Illustrated Catalogue, and
Son's with Photographic is for removing all KNIGHT& the various
Specimens. GEORGE KNIGHT purchasing Foster Lane,***** CYANOGEN SOAP
spurious London. and worthless imitations this valuable detergent&
pure only Lenses Portraits and Views, together of defeated of Chemical
required in practising kinds orders.[Footnote 4: "There is a laughable tradition," says Nichols, "still
generally current in Lancashire, that our knight-making monarch knighted
at the banquet in Hoghton Tower a loin of beef; the part ever since
called the sir-loin." HEMAN HUMPHREY, President of Amherst College,
from whose book I have already made some quotations, after devoting some
thirty-four pages to the establishment and perpetuation of the seventh
day Sabbath, comes to his fourth question, viz.
The's principal works family of this artist are the Mayor Lewis
monument at New Memorial Fountain, Providence; Daniel Haven,
Connecticut; the Chancellor Memorial, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville; Brown Boone and as the Ruff Fountain, Louisville

.
notes Eva softly sang a Tasmanian me a and favour?" the at day yearn
air which Parsonage was wild and sweet" Will you do for them,
would hardly believe how much. old man notes." Please one of,
the and dear old psalms., I am research Scotch, and"