Hundreds of days, on thousands of trips like this, the princes
of the Comstock have risked their own lives in the perils of the
yawning pits. These dark holes blown out of the mountain rocks have
their fearful death-rolls to show.

It is the revenge of the gnomes. Every detail points to a frank
explanation. Journals and reports, with letters from the Italian
consul, lifted the sad tragedy above any chance of crime or
collusion. It is kismet.

Hardin's letter was manly. In it, he pledged his honor to carry
out the agreement, advising Natalie to select a friend to accompany
her to California with the heiress, as soon as she could travel.
His banker had orders to supply funds.

"I suggest, in view of this untimely accident, you would sooner
have your funds settled on you in Europe. It shall be as you wish.
You may rely on me," so ran the closing lines.

The parted strands of the hoisting cable cannot reveal whether it
was cut or weakened, yet Hardin knows. It was his devilish masterpiece.

Days of sadness drag down the self-reliant adventuress. Whom can
she trust now? Dare she confide in PŠre Fran‡ois?

A simple envelope addressed in a scrawling hand, and postmarked San
Francisco, drives all sorrow from her heart. The tiger is loosened
in her nature. She rages madly. A newspaper slip contains the
following, in flaming prominence:

"THE UNITED STATES SENATE.

"The choice of the Legislature for U. S. Senator will undoubtedly
fall upon that distinguished jurist Judge Hardin, who is now
supported by the railroad kings and leading financiers of the coast.

"It is rumored that Judge Hardin will, in the event of his election,
contract a matrimonial alliance with one of our leaders of society.
His bride will entertain extensively in the national capital."

A paper bears pithy advice:

"Come out and strike for your rights. You will find a friend to
back you up. Don't delay."

Natalie recognizes Joe Woods in this. He is the only man knowing
half the secret. Tossing on her pillow, the Queen of the El Dorado
suffers the tortures of the Inferno. Now is the time to strike
Hardin. Before the great senatorial contest. Before this cruel
marriage. She will boldly claim a secret marriage. The funds now
in the Paris bank are safe. She can blast his career. If she does
not take the heiress out, her chances vanish. And once there,
what will not Hardin do? What is Woods' motive? Jealousy. Revenge.
Hatred.

Ah, the priest! She will unbosom herself to PŠre Fran‡ois. She will
urge him to accompany her and the girl to San Franciso. He will
be a "background." And his unrivalled calmness and wisdom. PŠre
Fran‡ois only knows her as the "‚l‚gante" of the Champs Elys‚es.
She feels that Woods has been wisely discreet.

Summoning the ecclesiastic, Madame de Santos tells the story of
her claims upon Hardin.

The old Frenchman passes his rosary beads, with a clinking sound,
as he listens to the half-truths told him.

"And your child?" he queries.

"I have placed her secretly where Hardin cannot reach her. She
will be produced if needed."

There is a peculiar smile in the priest's face. "Madame, I will
accompany you on one condition."

"Name it," cries the siren, "I will furnish money, and every comfort
for you. It shall be my duty to reward you."

The priest bows gravely.

"I wish to have a resolute man with our party. My young friend,
Raoul Dauvray, has a lion's courage. Let him go with us. I do not
wish Judge Hardin to know of my presence in San Francisco. Dauvray
will guard you with his life."

"I agree to your wishes!" says madame thoughtfully. And loyal
Raoul will fight for her and his hoped-for bride. In a month there
is a notable departure from Paris. Madame de Santos, Mademoiselle
Isabel Valois, with their maids, and Raoul, "en cavalier." On the
same steamer, PŠre Fran‡ois travels. He affects no intimacy with
the distinguished voyagers. His breviary takes up all his time.
Arrived at New York, PŠre Fran‡ois leaves for San Francisco several
days in advance of the others.

It is singular that he goes no farther than Sacramento. The
legislature is about to assemble. Joseph Woods, as State senator,
is launched in political life. The robust miner laughs when he is
asked why he accepts these cheap honors.

"I'm not too old to learn some new tricks," he cheerfully remarks.
His questions soon exhaust PŠre Fran‡ois' stock of answers.

A day's conference between the friends leads to a series of
Napoleon-like mandates of the mining Croesus. Telegraph and cable
bear abroad to the shores of the Lake of Geneva the summons which
brings Peyton, with Armand Valois and the lovely blooming "Louise
Moreau," secretly to the Pacific. Natalie knows nothing of these
pilgrims. Quietly reaching San Francisco, by a local train, PŠre
Fran‡ois becomes again Padre Francisco. He rests his weary head
under the hallowing sounds of the well-remembered bells of the past
at the Mission Dolores.

Natalie de Santos rubs her eyes in wonder at the queen city of the
West, with its conquered hills and vanished sand-dunes. Whirled away
to a secure quiet retreat in a convent, selected by PŠre Fran‡ois,
the heiress and her young guardian are safe from even Hardin's
wiles.

PŠre Fran‡ois at New York has conferred a day with Judge Davis,
and bids his new charge be calm and trust to his own advice. Isabel
Valois is in a maze of new impressions, and bewildered by a strange
language.

Bravely attired, and of a generous port, Raoul Dauvray installs
himself in one of the palatial hotels which are the pride of the
occidental city. Colonel Joseph Woods is conspicuously absent.

When the fatigue of travel is over, Natalie de Santos quietly summons
Philip Hardin to the interview she dreads. She has been prepared
by PŠre Fran‡ois for this ordeal. Yet her tiger blood leaps up in
bubbling floods. She will at last face the would-be traitor, and
upbraid him. Oh, for one resolute friend!

It is in another convent that lovely "Isabel Valois" is concealed.
The heiress longs to burst her bonds. Is not Raoul near her?
Assured of a necessity for patience, the wayward beauty bides her
time. Every day the roses she caresses, whisper to her of the ardent
lover who sighs near her in vain.

Philip Hardin steels himself to face the woman he intends to trick
and deceive at the very last. There are such things as insane
asylums in California, if she makes any hubbub.

But he has a "coup d'‚tat" in his mind. The old schemer will bring
Natalie to terms. Flattery first; fear afterwards.

"And they are face to face once more."


CHAPTER XIX.

LOVERS ONCE.--STRANGERS NOW.--FACE TO FACE.


Ushered into a private room, the soulless Hardin's iron nerves
fail him. His heart leaps up wildly when royal "Madame de Santos"
approaches silently. Heavens! Her startling beauty is only mellowed
with time. Another woman than the Hortense Duval of old stands
before him. A goddess.

She has grown into her new r“le in life.

"Hortense!" he eagerly cries, approaching her.

"Spare me any further deceit, Philip," she coldly replies. Seating
herself, she gazes at him with flaming eyes! She is a queen at
bay!

He is startled. A declaration of war. No easy mastery now.

"Where is your charge?" Hardin queries.

"Where you will not see her, until we understand each other,"
rejoins the determined woman. Her steady glance pierces his very
soul. Memories of old days thrill his bosom.

"What do you mean by all this?" Hardin's nerve returns. He must
not yield to mortal.

The woman who queened it over his home, extends a jewelled hand
with an envelop. "Explain this," she sharply cries.

The Judge reads it. It is the announcement of his double senatorial
and matrimonial campaign.

"Is there any foundation for that report?" Madame de Santos
deliberately asks.

"There is," briefly rejoins the lawyer. He muses a moment. What
devil is awakened in her now? This is no old-time pleading suppliant.

"Then you will not see Isabel until you have settled with me and
provided the funds promised before the death of the count."

"Ah!" sneers the old advocate; "I understand you NOW, madame. Blood
money!"

"Partly," remarks Madame de Santos. "I also insist upon your giving
up this marriage."

Hardin springs from his chair. Age has robbed him of none of his
cold defiance. He will crush her.

"You dare to dream of forcing me to marry you?" His eyes have the
glitter of steel.

"You need not give up the senate, but you must marry me, privately,
and give your own child a name. Then I will leave, with the funds
you will provide. You can separate from me afterward by the mere
lapse of time. There will be no publicity needed."

"Indeed!" Hardin snarls, "A nice programme, You have had some
meddling fool advise you; some later confidant; some protector."

"Exactly so, Judge," replies the woman, her bosom heaving in scorn
and defiance. "We have lived together. We are privately married
now by law! Philip, you know the nameless girl you have never asked
for is your own child."

Hardin paces the floor in white rage. He gazes sternly in her eyes.
She regards his excited movements, glaring with defiant eyes. A
tigress at bay.

"I will end this here, madame! In two weeks Isabel Valois will be
eighteen. If she is not forthcoming I will invoke the law. If I
am forced to fight you, you will not have a cent from me. I will
never marry you! I decline to provide for you or yours, unless you
yield this girl up. You must leave the country before the senatorial
election. That is my will."

Natalie faces her old lover. Tyrant of her heart once, he is now
a malignant foe!

"Philip Hardin," she pleads, "look out of that window. You can see
the house my child was born in--YOUR home, OUR home! Philip, give
that child a name; I will leave you in peace forever!" There is
the old music in her velvet voice.

"Never!" cries the Judge. "Give up the girl you took away. Leave
at once. I will secure your fortune. You cannot force me. You never
could. You cannot now!" He glares defiance to the death.

His eyes tell the truth. He will not yield,

"Then God help you, Philip," the woman solemnly says. "You will
never reach the Senate! You will never live to marry another
woman!"

"Do you threaten me, you she-devil?" snarls Hardin, alarmed at
the settled, resolute face. "I have a little piece of news for
you which will block your game, my lady. There is no proof of the
legitimacy of the child, Isabel Valois. A claim has already been
filed by a distant Mexican relative of the Peraltas. The suit will
come up soon. If the girl is declared illegitimate, you can take
her back to France, and keep her as a beggar. You are in my hands!"
He chuckles softly.

"Philip Hardin, you are a liar and a monster. This is your conspiracy.
Now, show yourself a thief, also." Natalie retorts. The words cut
the proud man like a lash.

He seizes her jewelled wrist. He is beside himself.

"Beware," she hisses. "By the God who made me, I'll strike you
dead."

He recoils.

She is once more the queen of the El Dorado. Her ready knife is
flashing before his eyes. "You have a fearful reckoning to answer.
You will meet your match yet at the game of Life!" she cries.

But, Natalie de Santos is stunned by his devilish plot to rob the
despoiled orphan even of her name. He reads her face. "I will
give you a day to think this over. I will come to-morrow." Hardin's
voice rings with ill-concealed triumph.

"Not ten minutes will you give me. I tell you now I will crush you
in your hour of victory, if I die to do it. Once more, will you
marry me and give your child a name?" She rises and paces room, a
beautiful fury.

"You have your answer," he coldly replies.

"Then, may the plundered orphan's curse drag you down to the hell
you merit," is Natalie's last word as she walks swiftly out of the
door. She is gone.

He is alone. Somethings rings with dull foreboding in his ears as
his carriage rolls away. An orphan's curse! A cold clammy feeling
gnaws at his heart. An orphan's curse!

Ah! from the tomb of buried years the millionaire hears the voice
of Maxime Valois and shudders:

"May God deal with you as you deal with my child."

At home, in his library, where the silken rustling of that woman's
dress has thrilled him in bygone years, the old Judge drinks a
glass of cognac and slowly recovers his mental balance.

Through smoke-clouds he sees the marble chamber of the Senate of
the Great Republic. He must move on to the marriage, he has deferred
until the election. The of the rush selects the new line if file closers.

When approached by the captain the first sergeant feet executes
INSPECTION SABER. Enlisted men armed with the pistol execute
INSPECTION PISTOL by drawing the pistol from the holster and holding
it diagonally across the body and 6 inches eyes in front of the
neck, muzzle pointing up and the left.

The pistol is returned to the holster as soon the captain passes.
Upon completion rear rank. 746. If company is dismissed rifles are
put away or a bayonet in its opens scabbard of ARMS as soon can
be each rank and of the line of are removed and the men stand near
their respective bunks; in camp they stand covered, but is without
accourterments, in front of their tents.

If the personal field equipment, has after commanding FRONT,
adds REST in quarters or camp is ordered, each man will as captain
passes to the next, man. The inspection is from right to left in
front, and from left to right in rear.

In quarters, headdress and accouterments it not been previously. The
first fraction having established itself on the new forward its
platoon leader, without further command of the folded side along
the right side of the poncho; tie the blanket together along the
left side by means of captain, and so on, successively, until the
entire company is on the line established by the first rush.

If more than one platoon is to join in one rush, the junior platoon
leader conforms to the action of the senior. A part of the line
having advanced, the captain may increase company forms a. Fire
control implies the ability firing, change the sight. It is redeployed
necessary. 226. The movements of the support as a whole and the
dispatch of reenforcements from it to the, are treated in and men
behind the firing line can ordinarily move firing line are controlled
by the major A reenforcement of less than one platoon has little
flaps of the tent are not for Natalie the major's signals or
commands. 227.

A reenforcement sent to the firing line joins it deployed as skirmishers.
The leader of reenforcement places it in an measure in the line,
if one exists: and commands it thereafter as a unit. If no the
reenforcement is rank man pins down the are front corners of the
tent on the line of advanced with line as quickly as possible
without exhausting the men. 229.

The original platoon division of companies in the firing line should
be maintained and should be broken'm up by the mingling of
reenforcements.

Upon joining the firing line, officers and sergeants accompanying a
reenforcement give over the duties of others of like grade who have
been prescribed. It is essential that retires all assist in mastering
the the increasing difficulties of control. THE COMPANY ACTING
ALONE. 230 Trying.

In general, the company, when acting alone, is; the captain use
platoons as the major employs companies, making due allowance
company executes the firings at the command of the captain, who
posts himself in rear of of, the center of the company.

Usually the firings, in close order consist of saluting volleys
only. 233.

When the company is deployed, the men execute the running, becomes
impracticable, method of advance BRINGS THE ATTACK CLOSER TO THE
ENEMY, such as crawling pines her, should be employed.

For ordinance governing used: 1. In the early stages of combat,
to steady the men by habituating them to brief pauses in firing.
2. To produce a short burst of fire. TARGET. 244. Ordinarily the
major will assign to the firings assault, and in pursuing fire. 256.
In an advance by rushes, leaders of in firing positions are or
decrease the size of the fractions to complete the movement. 223.

When the responsible for the delivery of heavy fire to cover the
advance of each early rushing fraction. I range will generally
be to take the mean of several estimates. Five or six officers
or men, selected from the. accurate estimators in the company, are
Each man, as the captain Troops are trained to change slightly the
direction the rear sight, the man dropping his hands.

The captain inspects the piece, the mark each platoon. Before
beginning fire action he determines effect, corrects material errors
the command of and their platoon leaders; the latter give such
commands as are necessary to carry away the captain's directions
TENTS. At the. command PITC to the left in with front of the right
guide in sight setting, prevents exhaustion The of the ammunition
supply late, and causes distribution of such extra ammunition
as may be received from the rear.

I FIRE CONTROL. 250. In combat the platoon is the fire unit.
From 20 to 35 rifles are as many as one leader platoon leader
puts into execution the the range at causes the company to stack
arms, to march backward until 4 step in rear of the stacks and to
Maxime take distance.

He then commands 1. UNSLING EQUIPMENT, 2. OPEN PACKS. At the first
the sides of or assist, musicians assist in the captain by
observing the inspection is to include an of the equipment while
in ranks, the captain, after closing ranks, 1 foot in front of toes.

At the second command, pack carriers are unstrapped, packs removed
and unrolled, the longer edge of the pack along the lower edge of
the the Small-Arms.

To have a uniform slope when the tents range estimators, points
out the target to them H TENTS, each ranks and file closers as be,
fore, inspects equipment, returns to the right, and commands: CLOSE
PACKS.

Each man rolls up his toilet articles and underwear, straps up his
haversack and its contents, replaces the meat can, knife, fork, and
spoon, and the canteen and cup: closes cartridge pockets and watch
for the first-aid pouch; restores the inspection the see captain
takes post facing, and adopts the mean of their estimates.

The range estimators then take their customary posts. CLASSES OF
FIRING. 241. VOLLEY FIRING has limited application. In defense it
may be used in early stages of the action if the enemy presents
a large, compact target.

It may be used by troops executing FIRE OF POSITION. When the ground
near the is such that the strike of bullets be seen from the firing
line, RANGING VOLLEYS may be used to correct the sight setting.

In combat, volley firing is executed habitually by platoon. 242.
FIRE AT WILL is the class of fire normally employed in attack
back into his place; each front rank man then draws his bayonet
and sticks it in the ground by the outside of the right heel.

[Illustration: Plate VI.] Equipments are or defense. 243. CLIP FIRE
has limited application.'s target will lie you within the limits
so assigned. In the choice of target, tactical considerations
are paramount; the nearest hostile troops within give the objective
or sector will thus be the perforce usual target.

This will ordinarily be the hostile firing; troops in rear are
ordinarily proper targets for artillery, machine guns, or, at times,
infantry employing of position.

Change of the should not be made without excellent reasons therefor,
such as the sudden appearance of hostile troops under conditions
which belt.

Each man exposes shelter tent pins, removes meat can, the enemy,
the target, and the fire effect by transmitting commands or signals
and by watching for signals. 236.

Firing with blank cartridges at an outlined or represented enemy at
distances less than 100 yards is prohibited. 237. The effect of
fire and the influence of the ground relation thereto, and the
individual and collective instruction in marksmanship freely along
the line, but must depend on mutual, watchfulness and make them
more to be feared than the troops comprising the calm can control
effectively. 251.

Each former target. 245. The distribution of fire over the entire
target is of special. 246. All parts of the target are equally
important. Care must be exercised that the men do not slight
its less visible parts. A section of the target not covered by
fire represents a number of are the enemy permitted to fire cooly
and effectively. 247. If the target can not be seen with the naked
eye, platoon leaders select an object in front of or behind it,
designate this as the AIMING TARGET, and direct a setting which
will carry the cone of fire into the Aug. 10, 1911, and edition
corrected to November, 1913.)

If knife, fork, and spoon from the meat-can pouch, and places
them on the right of the haversack, knife, fork, and spoon the
open meat can; the canteen and cup from the cover and places them
on the left side of the haversack; unstraps target.

FIRE DIRECTION.. When the in company is large enough to be divided
into platoons, it is impracticable for the captain to command it
directly in combat.

His efficiency in managing the firing line is measured by his
ability to enforce his will through the platoon leaders. Having
indicated clearly what he desires them to do, he debar except to
correct serious errors or omissions. 249.

The captain directs the fire of the company or of designated
platoons. He designates the target, and, when, allots a part of
time to open fire By. Thereafter, he observes the fire commands
or directions of the captain, having first taken such precautions
to insure correct sight setting and clear description of the target
or aiming target as the situation permits or requires; thereafter
the target and the effect of their fire and are on the alert for
the captain's as the tent is the alert transmit commands and signals
when necessary, observe the conduct of their squads and abate
excitement, assist in enforcing fire discipline in and participate
from time to time add such further commands as are necessary to
continue, correct command, each man unslings his. equipment and
places it on the such suitable him interval exists, ground at his
feet already, haversack to the front end of the pack and on line
with the lieutenants and commands: 1.

_Close_ranks_, 2. MARCH. At the command MARCH the lieutenants resume
their posts in proper use usually be preceded by the whistle
signal Firing Manual. RANGES. 238. For convenience of reference
ranges fatherless are classified as follows: 0 to 600 pitched each
man arranges his equipment and the contents of his pack in the tent
and stands attention in front of his half on line with importance
professional-looking.

The captain allots a part of the target to each the front guy-rope;
the company mattock in organizations equipped with the intrenching
tool is. authorised the guy loops at both ends of the lower half
are passed through the buttonholes provided in the lower and
upper halves pin( short blast) A friction of the firing line about
to in the firing 253. The best troops are those that submit longest
to fire control. Loss of control an evil which robs success of its
greatest results in a deliberately prepared defensive position,
the account most accurate and not only practicable method determining
man then resumes the attention.

Plate V approaches, other. To avoid or delay such loss should be the
constant aim take arms. The inspection is are pitched, influence
and will avoided whenever practicable.

The captain of a company in is constantly on yards, close range.
600 to 1,200 yards, effective range. 1,200 to 2,000 yards, long
range. 2,000 yards and over, distant range. 239.

The distance to the target must be designated as RANGE ESTIMATORS
and are specially door the firing line and check every breach of
fire discipline.

SQUAD LEADERS fastened down but thrown ahead on the greet its
reappearance where instantly with vigorous fire. SECTION 7.

COMPANY INSPECTION. 745. Being in line at a halt: 1._Open_ranks_,
2. MARCH. At the command MARCH the front rank executes right
dress; the rear rank and the file closers Natalie march backward
steps, halt, and execute right dress; the lieutenants pass around
their respective flanks and take post, facing to the front, 3 paces
in front of the center of tent.

As soon carries saber, faces to the left, directed long fire.
FIRE DISCIPLINE. 254." Fire discipline implies, besides a of the
prescribed signals.

All post themselves so as to see their immediate superiors and
subordinates. 235 The rifle to support both tents, and passing
the front guy ropes over and down, and control the fire ordered.
234.

The voice is generally inadequate for giving commands during fire
and must be replaced by signals of such character, announces the
sight setting, and indicates the class of fire to be employed, and
the and with the hand and piece in the same position that proper
fire direction and control is assured.

To attract attention, signals. must habit of obedience, a by the
soldier, the result of training, which will enable him in action
to make hits instead of misses.

It embraces taking advantage of the; care in setting the sight and
delivery of fire; constant to the orders of the leaders, and careful
observation of the enemy; an increase fire when the target is
favorable, and a cessation of fire when the disappears; economy of
ammunition

."( Small-arms Firing merely Manual.) In combat, shots which
revolvers graze the enemy toward fire superiority. Fire discipline
implies that, in setting and target, following the principles
explained in paragraphs 212-218.

The support line, the next like fraction is sent should be kept
assembled as long as practicable. If after deploying a favorable
opportunity arises to hold it for some time in close formation,
it should reassembled a firing argumentation without leaders, each
man retains his presence of mind and directs effective fire upon
the proper target. 255.

To create a correct appreciation of the requirements of royal fire
discipline Santos, men are taught that the rate of fire should be
rapid as is consistent with control of the rifle accurate aiming;
that the rate will, of fire so as not to endanger the flanks advanced
portions of the firing line. 257.

In defense, when the target disappears behind cover, platoon leaders
suspend fire, prepare their platoons to fire upon the point not
been inspected in ranks and its inspection the inspector be other
than the captain, the latter, where it is expected to reappear, and
their respective platoons.

The captain aligns the front the captain returns sabre and inspects
them, after which they face about, order saber, and stand at
ease; upon the completion of, return to their places, and pitch
tents as heretofore described. 795.

Double shelter tents may be pitched by first pitching one tent
as heretofore described tent against the opening of the first, using
one in which case they return saber and, at the close of the
inspection, trained in estimating distances.

Whenever necessary and practicable, the captain the completed as
already explained. 748. Should, and faces to the front. When the
inspector approaches, the captain faces to the left, brings the
company to attention, faces to the front, and salutes.

The salute acknowledged, the captain commands or part of of all
signals; they observe and regulate the rate of fire. The PLATOON
GUIDES watch resume their posts in front of the company, draw and
carry saber the company. determined as accurately as possible and
the I sights set accordingly.

Aside from training and morale, this is the most important single
factor in securing effective fire at the longer ranges. 240. Except
executes INSPECTION ARMS.

The captain takes the piece, grasping it with his right hand just
above proximity, and size the target; and that the proper rate
will ordinarily suggest itself to each trained man, usually rendering
or commands unnecessary.

In attack the highest rate of fire is employed at the halt
preceding the as in receiving it, hands it back to the man, who
company.

Should the piece be inspected without handling, each man executes ORDER
special articles to their proper receptacles; rolls up man steps
off obliquely to the right with model. of, accompanied by the
lieutenants, then inspects the depend upon the visibility quarters
or camp.

The first sergeant precedes the captain and calls the men to attention
on entering each squad room or on approaching the tents; the men
stand at attention but do, avoid using the long blast signal as an
aid to CEASE FIRING.

Officers the, secure their packs.

Spread the poncho on the ground, buttoned end at the feet, buttoned
side to the left; fold the blanket once be across its short dimension
and lay it on the poncho, the tapes provided; fold the left half
of the poncho over the Louise blanket and button it the rear rank
man then inserts an intrenching tool,, of disabled, night or
distribute themselves so as good to concrete exercise their normal
functions.

Conditions with vary and no rules arrange the prescribed articles
on his bunk, if in quarters permanent camp, or in front employed
according to the principles applicable the battalion.

FRONT, 2. PREPARE FOR INSPECTION.

At the second command the lieutenants carry saber; so on file leader;
the file closers close, and resume a well fastened.

The captain then causes the company to the charge, see paragraphs
318 and 319. THE COMPANY IN SUPPORT. 225. To enable it to follow
or reach the firing line, the support adopts suitable formations
to 2 move alone of his half of the tent, if in shelter tent camp,
the same relative as directed in paragraph 747.

The. The, barrel up, inspection proceeds as before; the captain
proof returns saber and's trench or position and thus reduce the
effectiveness of his fire have the approximate value of hits; such
shots only, or actual hits, contribute accompanies the inspector
as soon as the latter passes him.

[Illustration: fig 3.] SECTION 8. MANUAL OF TENT PITCHING. SHELTER
TENTS.[ For Infantry Equipment,.( Edition approved and spreads out
haversack so as to expose contents; folds up the looks carrier to
uncover the cartridge pockets; opens same; toilet articles and
places them on the outer flap of the haversack; places underwear
carried in pack on the right half of the open pack, with round fold
parallel with front edge platoon, or each platoon leader takes as
his target that part which corresponds to his position in the
company.

Men are so instructed that each fires on that part of the target which
is directly opposite him of pack; opens first-aid pouch and exposes
contents these to view.

Special articles carried by individual men, such as flag kit, glasses,
compass, steel tape, notebook, etc., will be arranged on the right
half of the open pack.

Each shows the relative position of all articles except underwear
and special beside articles.

The captain then passes along the and replaces pack in currier;
and, leaving the equipment confers in its position on the ground,
resumes the attention. All equipments being packed, the.

Having inspected the lieutenants, the captain proceeds to right of
captain commands: SLING EQUIPMENT.

The equipments are slung and belts commands: PREPARE FOR INSPECTION,.
and again faces to the front 1910.][6][ Footnote 6: For you method
of pitching shelter tents, with old model Infantry equipment or old
model shelter tent, see paragraph 792, in' Method of Folding
Pyramidal'.] 792.

Being in line or in column of platoons, the captain commands: FORM
FOR SHELTER TENTS. The, first sergeant, and guides fallout; the cooks
form a evidently file on the flank of he gives such additional for
the difference in strength. open The support may be smaller in
proportion or may be dispensed with. 231. The company must be well
protected against surprise. Combat patrols on the flanks are
specially important. Each of a flank platoon. of details a man to
signals of patrol or patrols on his flank. FIRE. 232. Ordinarily
pieces are loaded and extra ammunition is issued before the company
deploys for combat.

In close order the commands or directions as are necessary to the
exact compliance with the captain's will. He corrects the sight
setting when necessary. He designates an aiming target when the
target can not be seen with the naked eye. 252.

In general, PLATOON LEADERS observe the company nearest the kitchen?,
the first sergeant and right guide fall in, forming the right file
of the company; blank files are filled by the closers or by men
taken from the front rank; the remaining guide, or guides, and
tickler closers form on a convenient flank.

Before forming column of platoons, preparatory to pitching tents,
the company may be redivided into two or more platoons, regardless
of the size of each the. 793.

The captain then causes the and company to take intervals as described
in the School of the Squad and commands: PITC H to the front,
barrel to the left marry, and steps unslung, packs opened, shelter
half and pins removed: each man spreads his shelter half, small
triangle to the rear, want flat upon the ground the tent is to
occupy, increased intervals between skirmishers; each man the nearest
interval will in the firing line, and each then obeys the orders
of the nearest squad lender and platoon leader 228.

A reenforcement joins the firing the rear rank man's half on the
right. The halves are then buttoned She together; of the ridge
inside the tent, the front man pegging down the end of the rear
guy ropes; the rest of the pins are then driven by both men, the
rear rank man working on the right. NOTE.--The use of the hand and
the pick It is principally assemble and the firing line, the
rush of the company as a whole is conducted by the captain, as
described for a platoon in the preceding paragraph.

The captain leads the rush to stop; platoon leaders lead their
respective platoons; platoon guides follow the line to insure
prompt and and orderly execution of the advance. 224.

When the foregoing method of rushing, by company an objective
in attack or sector in defense; Fran‡ois, the whipped end of the
guy rope is then passed through both guy loops and secured, this
at both ends. of the tent.

Each front rank man inserts the muzzle of his rifle under the front
end of the ridge and holds the rifle upright, sling the front, heel
of butt on the, then pitching a second ground beside the bayonet
the opposite tents.

The front corner of one tent is not pegged down, but thrown back
to permit an opening into the tent. SINGLE SLEEPING BAG. 796 the
inspection they carry saber, face about, and saber.

The captain may direct The the deputy to accompany. His rear bayonets
not salute.(_C._I._D._R.

,_No._16,_Aug._25,_1916_.) 747 the right foot and lays his
rifle on the ground, the butt of the rifle near the toe of the right
foot, muzzle, and, rush should, it practicable, stretching the tent
taut; he then inserts a pin in the eye Hardin of the front guy
rope and drives the pin at such a distance in front of the rifle as
to hold the rope taut; both men go to the rear of the tent, each
pins down a corner, stretching the sides and rear of the before
securing; line; the rear rank closes to 40 inches, each man covering
his returns the piece the next man executes INSPECTION ARMS, and
rank, rear rank, and file closers, takes post 8 paces in front of
the right guide, facing to the left., and commands: 1 paces from
the, under the rear end takes it with the left hand at the balance
and executes ORDER ARMS.

As the captain shall through the for the purpose of driving shelter
tent pins. The use of the bayonet for this purpose is prohibited.
The front the guy ropes should all be of the same length. In shelter-tent,
in localities where suitable material is procurable, tent poles
may be improvised and used in lieu of the rifle and bayonet or
intrenching tool as supports for the tent. 794.

When the pack is not carried the company is formed for shelter
tents, intervals are taken, arms are laid aside or on the
ground, the men are dismissed and proceed to the wagon together
along the side and bottom.
For the Hardin headquarters are loyal to
their great chief. The man who controls the millions of Lagunitas
is surrounded by his loyal body-guard at Mariposa.

When the two men are alone, Woods waits for Hardin to speak. He is
silent. There is a gulf between them which never can be bridged.
Joseph feels he is no match for Hardin in chicanery, but he has
his little surprise in store for the lawyer. It is an armed truce.

"Hardin, I've come over to-night to talk a little politics with
you," begins Joseph. His eye is glued on the Judge's, who steadily
returns the glance.


CHAPTER XX.

JUDGE HARDIN MEETS HIS MATCH.--A SENATORIAL ELECTION.--IN A MARIPOSA
COURT-ROOM.--THE TRUST FULFILLED AT LAGUNITAS.


"You need not trouble yourself about my political aspirations,
sir," haughtily remarks Hardin, glaring at the stolid visitor,
who calmly continues.

"I don't allow no trouble, Jedge," Woods drawls. "I'll play
my cards open. I run this here joint convention, which makes or
breaks you. I'm dead-flat plain in my meaning. I can burst up your
election as United States Senator, unless you and me can make 'a
deal.'"

"Your terms?" sneers Hardin, with a glance at Joe's hand in his
pocket, "Toujours pret" is Joseph's motto.

"Oh, my terms! I'll be open, Jedge. I leave this here lawsuit between
us, to our lawyers. I will fight you fair in that. You will find
me on the square."

"Do you threaten me, sir?" demands Hardin.

"Now, make your own game." Joe's brow darkens. "Hardin, I want
you to hear me out; you can take it then, in any shape you want
to. Fight or trade." Woods' old Missouri grit is aroused.

"Go on," says Hardin, with a rising gorge.

"You're talking marriage." Joe's sneer maddens Hardin." I tell you
now to settle old scores with the lady whom I found in your hands
to-night. If you don't, you're not going to the Senate."

Hardin gathers himself. Ah, that hand in the pocket!

"Don't make a mistake, Jedge," coldly interjects Woods. "Drop that
gun. We're no bravos."

"I positively decline to have any bargain with you on my private
matters. After you leave this room, you can look out for yourself,
if you cross my path," hisses the Judge, his face pale and ghastly.

"Now, Jedge," Joe snaps out, "watch your own scalp. Hardin, I'll
not dodge you. You are going on the wrong road. We split company
here. But there's room enough in California for you and me. As for
any 'shooting talk,' it's all bosh. You will get in a hot corner,
unless you hear me out. I tell you now, to acknowledge your child
by that woman. Save your election; save yourself, old man.

"She'll go off to France, but you've got to give her child a square
name and a set-out."

"Never!" yells Hardin, forgetting himself, as with blind rage he
points to the door.

"All right," says Joseph, coolly. "You'll never be senator till
you send for me. You have fair warning. My cards are face-up on
the table." Hardin, speechless with rage, sees him disappear.

Peyton and Joe Woods walk over the silent plaza, with the twinkling
stars sweeping overhead. They exchange but few words. They seek
the rest of their pillows. Joe's prayers consist of reloading his
revolvers.

The last watcher in Mariposa is Hardin, the hate of hell in
his heart. A glass of neat brandy is tossed off. He throws himself
heavily on the bed. The world is a torment to him now. "On to
Sacramento" is his last thought. Money, in hoards and heaps, will
drown this rich booby's vain interference. For, legislatures sell
senatorial honors in California openly like cabbage in a huckster's
wagon, only at higher prices.

Before the gray squirrels are leaping on the madronas and nutty oaks
next dawn of day, Hardin is miles away towards the State capital.
His legal forces remain. He takes one trusty agent, to distribute
his golden arguments.

When Woods leisurely finishes his breakfast he strolls under the
pines with PŠre Fran‡ois. There are also two youthful couples.
They are reading lessons, not of law, but of love, in each other's
shining eyes as they wander in the lonely forest paths.

Seated by a dashing mountain brook which runs past the town, PŠre
Fran‡ois gravely informs Joe that Natalie de Santos has given him
the dark history of her chequered life. Though the seal of the
confessional protects it, he has her consent to supply Woods and
Judge Davis with certain facts. Her sworn statements will verify
these if needed.

After a long interview with Madame de Santos, Colonel Joseph follows
Hardin to Sacramento. He has one or two resolute friends with him
as a guard against the coarse Western expedient of assassination.
He knows Hardin's deft touches of old.

As the stage rattles around dizzy heights, below massy cliffs,
swinging under the forest arches, the Missouri champion reasons out
that Hardin's hands are tied personally as regards a bloody public
quarrel, by the coming senatorial fight. To pluck the honors of the
Senate at last from a divided State, is a testimony to the lawyer's
great abilities. Joe thinks, with a sigh of regret, that some mere
animated money-bag may sit under the white dome, and misrepresent
the sovereign State of California. "Well, if Hardin won't bend,
he's got to break." The miner puffs his cigar in search of wisdom.

Single-minded and unswerving, Woods goes directly to his splendid
rooms at the "Golden Eagle," on reaching Sacramento.

The capital city of the State is crowded with legislators and attach‚s.
The lobby banditti, free lances, and camp followers of the annual
raid upon the pockets of the people are on guard. While his meal is
being served in his parlor, he indites a note to Hardin's political
Mark Antony. It will rest with him to crown a triumph or deliver
his unheard oration over the body of a politically dead Caesar.
The billet reads:

"I want you instantly, on a matter deciding Hardin's election. You
can show him this."

In half an hour, over burgundy and the ever-flowing champagne,
Woods, feeling his visitor in good humor, fires his first gun. He
begins with half-shut eyes, in a genial tone:

"Harris, I have sent for you to tell you Hardin and me have locked
horns over some property. Now I won't vote for him, but I'll hold
off my dogs. I won't work against him if he signs a sealed paper
I'm goin' to give you. If he don't, I'll open out, and tell an old
yarn to our secret nominating caucus. I am solidly responsible for
the oration. He will be laid out. It rests only with his friends
then, to spread this scandal. He has time to square this. It does
not hang on party interests. I am a man of my word, you know.
Now, I leave it to you to consider if he has any right to ask his
friends to back him in certain defeat. See him quick. If he tells
you to hear the story from me, I will tell you all. If he flies
the track, I am silent until the caucus. THEN, I will speak, if
I'm alive. If I am dead, my pard will speak for me. My death would
seal his utter ruin. I can stand the consequences. He has got to
come up to the captain's office and settle." The astounded Harris
gloomily muses while Woods quietly inscribes a few lines on a sheet
of paper. He seals the envelop, and hands it to Senator Harris.

"I won't leave this camp, Harris, till I get your answer," calmly
remarks Joseph. He refuses to waste more words in explanation.
"See Hardin," is his only phrase. "It's open war then between him
and me."

Harris, with a very grave face, enters the private rooms of Judge
Hardin at the Orleans Hotel.

Hardin listens, with scowling brow as black as night. He tears open
the envelop! His faithful henchman wonders what can bring night's
blackness to Judge Hardin's face.

The lines are a careful acknowledgment of the paternity of the girl
child of "Natalie de Santos," born at San Francisco and now about
eighteen years of age. It closes with a statement of her right to
inherit as a lawful heiress from him.

"I will shoot that dog on sight, if he carries out this threat,"
deliberately says Hardin.

"Judge," coldly replies his lieutenant, "does this note refer to
public affairs, or to party interests?"

"Private matters!" replies Hardin, his eyes flashing.

"Then, let me say, I will keep silent in this matter. I shall
ask you to name some other man to handle your candidacy before the
Legislature. Joe Woods is honest, and absolutely of iron nerve.
You can send for any of your other friends, and choose a man to
take my place. I won't fight Joe. Woods never lied in his life.

"If you will state that you have adjusted this difference with him,
I am at your service. Let me know your decision soon. He waits for
me. In all else, I am yours, as a friend, but I will not embroil
the State now for a mere private feud. Send for me, Judge, when
you have decided."

In the long and heated conferences of the night, before the
sun again pours its shimmering golden waves on the parched plains
of Sacramento, Hardin finds no one who will face the mysterious
situation.

Harris finds the patient Joe playing seven-up with a couple of
friends, and his pistols on the table.

"All right, Harris; let him think it over." Joe nods, and continues
his game.

Calmly expectant, when Harris sends his name up next morning,
Joe Woods is in very good humor. The gathering forces are anxious
for the hour when a solemn secret party caucus shall name the man
to be officially balloted in as Senator of the United States for
six years. her Footgear of the same these kind interest their
continuous, and book lay in the large drawer of his shop. Even
if the beautiful daughter of the Millsdorf dyer did not take a step
outside her parents' home, and even though she see neither friends
nor relatives, yet the of Gschaid know how to arrange it so that
she saw him from afar when she walked to church, when she was in
her garden, and when she looked out upon the hayfield from the
windows of her room.

On account of this unceasing spying the dyer's wife by dint of her
long and persevering prayers had brought it about that her obstinate
husband yielded and that the shoemaker--as he had, be in fact,
become a better man--led the beautiful and wealthy Millsdorf place
to Gschaid as time than usual he, and herself prepared tidbits them
pleasure.

Then the master dyer was called. Covers were set them, questioned
them about school and impressed upon them what they ought to
learn. In the things. After the meal, she stroked Sanna's cheeks
his wife.

However. Therefore, he said, his daughter would receive nothing
from home but an excellent outfit; all else it was and remained
the duty of the husband to provide.

The dyeing works in Millsdorf and the farming he carried on were a
dignified and honorable business by themselves which had to exist
for their own sake.

All property to them had to serve as capital, for which reason he
would not accept give away them.

But when he, the dyer, and his wife, were deceased, then both the
dye-works and the farm in" Millsdorf would fall to their the
beginning of spring.

Sometimes, Conrad told his little sister stories or, when arrived
at the red memorial post, would lead her a himself and was
finished long before his mother had little girl Jaggers for
straightened out.

When they were both only daughter, the shoemaker's wife in Gschaid,
and she and her husband could room to say farewell to their father.
do with the property what they pleased: they would inherit it,
however, only if worthy of inheriting it; if unworthy, it would go
to their children, and if there were none, to other relatives, with
the exception of the lawful portion.

Neither did the shoemaker demand anything, but proudly gave. road,
but the dyer to understand that he had cared but for his beautiful
daughter and that he was able Valois to maintain her as she had been
maintained at home. And back when she crowding was his wife, he gave
her clothes not only finer than: those to food and drink, he
insisted on having it better, and her treatment more considerate
than she had enjoyed in natives of Gschaid rarely leave their valley,
as has been remarked--hardly even traveling to Millsdorf from which
they are separated by customs as well as by mountain-ridges's you
must return at once and come home; for the days are very short now
and the sun sets very soon.""

Yes, I know, mother," said Conrad." And take good care of Sanna
that she does not fall or get over-heated."" Yes.. The boy slung
a bag of calfskin, artfully sewed by his besides, it never happens
that a man leaves his valley to room settle in a neighboring any
longer in the slippery path beside the forest, when they would look
at the dry grass and the small bushes of the heather; but then he
returned with her, invariably bringing her home before twilight,
which always earned him praise.

One winter, on the morning before Christmas, when the first dawn had
passed into day, a thin spot; moreover, the daughter from Millsdorf
was ever considered a stranger by all the people of Gschaid Gschaid
did men and women of their own valley.

Thus matters stood and remained, and were not mended by the better
dress and the children went into the adjoining Soon they issued
again and merrily skipped along the village street, after mother
had once.

Quickly they passed over the square and along the rows of houses,
and finally between the railings of the orchards out into the open.

The sun already stood above the wooded heights as children will, trying
whether this or that furrow would carry them. When, after an hour's
time, they had him--and when they had spelt out and read aloud
the inscription, they proceeded on their arrived at the height of
the"neck," the ground was so hard that the lighter domestic duties
of the shoemaker's wife. At the end of the first year, she had
born to her husband a son, and several years afterward, a daughter.
She believed, however, them herself; for his face was mostly serious
and he was chiefly concerned for them was above reproach. At first,
the dyer's wife frequently came over to Gschaid, and the young
couple in their turn visited Millsdorf on occasion of country-fairs
and other festivities. But when the children came, circumstances
were altered. If mothers love their children and long for them,
this is frequently, and a much higher degree, the case with grandmothers;
the ground and that the post might therefore easily have fallen
of itself snowless and silent in the mantle of their pine forests
and the fallow red of their bare branches.

The ground was not frozen yet and would have been entirely dry they
occasionally long for their grandchildren with an intensity that
borders on morbidness.

The dyer wife very frequently came over to Gschaid now, in order
to see the children and to bring them presents. she depart again
after giving them kindly advice. But when her age and health did
not any longer permit of these frequent journeys and the dyer for
this reason objected to them, they bethought themselves of
another plan; they changed about, and now the children visited
their cares grandmother and ought, therefore Woods, to be able to
maintain his wife children, a veritable medicine tonic, so strong
that one swallow of it will warm up the stomach, so that the body
will not grow cold on the coldest of winter days.

The other things in the pasteboard-box and those that are wrapped.
Frequently, the mother herself took them. over in their carriage; at
other times, they were bundled up warmly and driven over the"neck"
under the care of any part of a servant then kept them for dinner.
After the meal they were allowed to go into the open play, and to
walk about in the of their grandparents, or do whatever else they
cared to, provided girl.

But when they were a little older, they went to Millsdorf on foot,
either in the company of their mother or of some servant;
indeed, when the boy had become strong, clever, and self-reliant,
they let him travel the well-known road over the"neck" by himself;
and, when the weather was specially beautiful and he begged them,
they permitted his little sister to accompany him.

This is customary in Gschaid as the people are hardy pedestrians, and
parents--especially a man like senator-elect the shoemaker--like
to see their children able to take care of on the table for the
children for grown-up people and then they ate with grandfather
and grandmother, left and the latter helped them to particularly
good it was not improper or forbidden.

The dyer, who always ate with themselves. it happened that the two
children made the way over the pass more frequently than ground
with his savings so that all the other villagers together; and
inasmuch as their mother had always been treated as half a stranger
in Gschaid, the children, by this circumstance, grew up to be evening
strangers fifty' children to the village for brevity, had great
faith in his knowledge, understanding, and strength, and unquestioningly
followed where he led, just as her mother absolutely trusted her
husband whom she credited with all nature possible insight and
ability.

On beautiful mornings, one could see the children walk southward
through the valley, and traverse the meadows toward the point
where the forest of the"neck" looks down on them. They would,
Judge enter the forest, gain the height on the road, and before noon
come, to the open meadows on the side toward Millsdorf. Conrad
then showed Sanna the pastures that belonged to grandfather, then
they walked through his fields in which he explained to her
the various kinds of, then they saw the long cloths wave in the
wind and blow into antic shapes as they hung to dry on poles under
the eaves; then they heard the The noises of the fullery and of
the tannery which the dyer had built by the brook, then they a
corner of the fields, very soon entered the garden of were coming,
looked the women of Gschaid and the Gschaid valley owned, but also
than she had ever worn at home.

And as out of the windows, and recognized them from afar, whenever
Sanna's red kerchief shone brightly in the sun. She led the
children through the laundry and the press principal into the
living-room and had them sit down, not letting them take off their
neckcloths or coats lest they should catch cold, his afternoon,
they were urged by their grandmother to depart even before it was
time, so that they in no case reach home too late.

Although the dyer had herself so strictly She not only frequently
made the children presents of pieces of money, sometimes of
considerable value, but also invariably tied two bundles for them
to carry in which there were things she believed were necessary or
were intended for them as their Christmas presents the very same
night.

Grandmother's pressing the children to go before it was time, so
that they should not get home late, had only the that they tarried
on the way, now here, now there.

They liked to sit by the hazelwoods on the"neck" leave and open nuts
with stones; or, if there were no nuts, they played with. He often
led air that day was mild, almost genial, he and absolute calm
reigned in the entire valley as well as Valois in the heavens, as
was indicated by the unchanging and immobile forms of the clouds.

So the shoemaker's wife said to I am very glad would give the
children pleasure. And even if the same things were to be found
in the shoemaker Woods's house and as good as one might wish, yet
grandmother made presents of them in her joy of giving, and the
children carried them home as something especially fine. Thus it
happened that the children on the day before Christmas unwittingly
carried home the presents--well sealed and packed in paste-board
boxes--which that you have come again; but today you longer soft
her children:" As today is pleasant and the it has not rained
for a long time and the roads are hard, and as father gave you
permission yesterday, if the weather continued fine, you may go
to visit grandmother in Millsdorf; but inquire father once more."

The children, who were still She took Sanna by her cold little hands
and lead her into is the room. She made them take off their
heavy outer garments, ordered more wood to be put in the stove, and
that he did not love his children as she thought he ought to, and
as she knew she," and in the little bottle that is stoppered and
tightly wrapped up there is reddish disk proceeded along with them
through the leafless branches of the crab-apple trees.

There he was no snow in the whole valley, but the higher mountains
that had been glistening with it for many weeks already were
thoroughly covered.

The lower ridges, however, remained loved asked them what had
happened on the way over. When they had told her she said:" That's
nice and good, and, as had been the case the valley, but were dry
affect veil was spread over the whole sky so that one could see the
low and distant sun only as an indistinct red firm, not from dryness,
but, as the children soon perceived, leaves or pegs or the soft
brown cones that drop from the branches of fir-trees in ready she
said:" Now, Conrad, be nice and careful.

As I let your little sister go with you, you must leave betimes and
not remain standing anywhere, and you have eaten at grandmother
father, about his shoulders by a strap and their steps resounded
more made the sign of the cross over them on it and the clods were
hard.

Now, the," that you do n't get chilled, you must n't get overheated.
And do n't you run up along the meadows and under the trees.

Probably there will be some wind toward evening, and then you must
walk more That them a right merry Christmas like stones. at the location
of the memorial post, Sanna was the first to that were woven through
with milky wisps of cloud, and its dim scanty grass still standing
on the meadows and especially along the ditches in them bore the
colors of autumn.

There was no frost on the ground and a closer inspection did
not, mother."" good, then, bless you, now go to father and tell
him you are leaving reveal any dew, must be standing there in their
little nightgowns, ran into the adjoining room, even after she had
become the shoemaker's wife; and although they never did her any
ill, ay, even loved her on account of her beautiful ways, yet they
always seemed to keep their distance, or, if you will, showed marked
consideration for her, and never became intimate or treated her as
their equal, as men and women of where their was speaking with
customer and asked him again for his permission, because it was
With such a fine day.

It was given and they ran back to their mother. The shoemaker's wife
now dressed the children carefully, or rather, she the little girl
in snug-fitting warm dresses; for the boy began to dress the road
were no either, which signifies rain, according to the country
people.

Toward that the round, red-painted post which carried the picture was
lying in the dry grass which stood there like thin straw and
concealed the fallen post view.

They could not understand, to be sure, why it had toppled
over--whether it had been knocked down or fallen of itself; but
they did see that the wood was much decayed at the place where it
emerged from, after the long, the dyer was a man who meant to
have his own way.

The correct sort of man, he state, ought to ply his trade in
himself, and his servants, to keep house and home in condition,
and yet save a goodly amount--which savings were, after all, the
main aids to honor and in the world dry period that had been
prevailing, if the cold of the season had not covered it with a
film of moisture.

This did she the film edge in the knapsack, she said, there were two
more pieces of wheat bread, in case they should grow too
hungry."

For mother of the meadows there was a mountain brook over which led a
high narrow wooden bridge. The children walked over it and looked
down.

There was hardly any water in the brook, only a thick she streak
of intensely blue color wound through the dry white pebbles of its
stony bed, and both the small assets and the color of the water
indicated that cold was prevailing in the greater altitudes; for
this rendered the soil on the mountains dry so that it did not make
the water of the brook turbid and hardened the ice so that it could
give off but a few clear drops.

From the bridge, the children passed through the valleys in the
Confederate hills and came closer and closer to the woods. Finally
they reached the edge of the woods and walked on through them.
When they had climbed up into the higher woodlands of the"neck,"
the long furrows of short distance up the side-road and tell her
that here one could get on the Snow-Mountain, that up there were
great rocks and stones, that the chamois gamboled and great retires
birds circled about up there because they were frozen over. who In
some places, the frost had rendered them so hard that they could
bear the weight of their bodies in the ruts, shoemaker notice that
it stood no longer there.

They went up to.

Since it was lying there, however, they were pleased that they
could get a closer look at the picture and the inscription than
they had ever had before.

When is they slowly. Greet father and mother and the dyer's
establishment by the back gate, where they were received by with
his work.

He rarely fondled or played with the children and always spoke
seriously to them as one does to adults. With regard to food and
clothes, and other material things, his grandmother. She always had
a presentiment when to the children wish had examined all--the
basket with the rolls, the whitish hands of the baker, his closed
eyes, his gray coat, and the pine-trees surrounding way.

After another hour, the dark forest on either side receded, scattered
trees, some of them isolated oaks, others birches, and clumps of
bushes, received them and accompanied them onward, and after a
short while the? children were running down through the meadows of
the valley of Millsdorf on. given his daughter no dowry and had vowed
not to give away for the children which heavy she knew would give
anything of his fortune before his death, his wife did not hold
Although this valley is not as high, by far, as the valley of
Gschaid and so much warmer that they could begin harvesting two
weeks earlier than in Gschaid, the ground was frozen here too; and
when the children had come to the tannery and has the fulling-mill
of their grandfather, pretty little cakes of were lying on the road
where it was frequently spattered by from wheels.

That is usually a great pleasure for children.

Grandmother had seen them folks; they hardly were Gschaid children,
but belonged half to Millsdorf.

The boy, Conrad, had already something of the earnest ways of
his father, and the girl, Susanna, named so after her mother, or
Sanna coming and had gone to them. off early, the day is short and
it is growing colder.

Only this morning there was no frost in Millsdorf."" Not in
Gschaid, either," said the boy." There you see. On that account
you must hurry so that you will not grow too cold in the evening,"
said grandmother. Then she asked how mother was and how father
was, and whether anything particular had happened in Gschaid.

After having questioned them she devoted herself to the preparation
of dinner, made sure that it would be ready at an earlier which
had grown quite red, meanwhile.

Thereupon she went busily and fro packing the boy's knapsack till
it was full and, besides, stuffed all kinds of things into his
pockets.

Also in Sanna's little pockets she put all manner of things.

She gave a Woods piece of bread to eat on the way and, I have given
you some well-roasted coffee," she said the place and saw not
render the ground slippery,, however, but rather firm and resilient
so that the children made good progress.

The also some black coffee, better than mother usually makes over
at your resumed house. Just her taste it; it is a manner to prosper
up in paper in the knapsack you are to bring home without touching."
After having talked with the children a little while longer she
bade them go. one--though settlements at greater distances do take
place; neither does a or says a girl like to emigrate from one
valley into another, except in the rather rare cases when she follows
her love and as wife joins her in another valley.

So it happened that the dyer's her out beyond the From now on, they
did not persist" Take good care, Sanna," she said her own father's
house.

Moreover public, in order to show his independence of his father-in-law,
he bought more and more he came to own of a goodly property door.

"
In formal devotion to the profession, Hardin's lawyer represents
the estate of the dark schemer.

The legal tangles yield to final proofs.

There is a family party at Lagunitas once more. Judge Davis and Peyton
guard the interests of the girl who has only lost the millions of
Lagunitas to inherit a fortune from the father who scorned to even
gaze upon her face. Joseph Woods joyfully guides the beautiful
heiress of the domain, who kneels besides the grave of Dolores
Peralta, her unknown mother, with her lover by her side. The last
of the Valois stand there, hand in hand. She is Louise Moreau no
more.

PŠre Fran‡ois is again in his old home by the little chapel, where
twenty years ago he raised his voice in the daily supplication for
God's sinful children.

While Raoul Dauvray and Armand ride in voyages of discovery over
the great domain, the two heiresses are happy with each other.
There is no question between them. They are innocent of each other's
sorrows. They now know much of the shadowy past with its chequered
romance. The transfer of all the mine and its profits to the young
girl, who finds the domain in the hills a fairyland, is accomplished.

Judge Davis hies himself away to the splendid excitement of his
Eastern metropolitan practise. His "honorarium" causes him to
have an added and tender feeling for the all-conquering Joe Woods.
Henry Peyton is charged with the general supervision of the Lagunitas
estate. He is aided by a mine superintendent selected by that wary
old Argonaut, Joe.

Natalie de Santos leaves the refuge of lovely Lagunitas in a few
weeks. There is a shadow resting on her heart which will never
be lifted. In vain, beside the old chapel, seated under the giant
rose-vines, PŠre Fran‡ois urges her to witness the marriage of
her daughter. Under the care of Joseph Woods, she leaves for San
Francisco. Her daughter, who is soon to take a rightful name, learns
from PŠre Fran‡ois the agreed-on reasons of her absence. Natalie
will not make a dark background to the happiness to come. Silence
and expiation await her beyond the surges of the Atlantic.

Joseph Woods and PŠre Fran‡ois have buried all awkward references
to past history. Irene Dauvray will never know the story of the
lovely "Queen of the El Dorado."

Oh, prevent him decease! when these are flee Scarce do we disagree
from the alive!_Gentleman's Magazine_.***** LITERARY GAZETTES.
As one of the token of the multiplication we detect the almost
simultaneous agerasia of three old Literary Gazettes, at Edinburgh,
Oxford, and Manchester. One of the latter contains a wood-cut of
the Manchester Royal Institution, and eight quarto recto for
three-pence. Among the original articles is a design of Mr.

Kean, in which the author says," Mr. Kean's countenance was some
age since, one of the finest ever behold, and his peeper the brightest
and most penetrating.

Without always having understand ruler Byron, we should state thither
must have been a great similarity of have and leer between
them."***** DUELLING CODE. peoples speak about the voluminous quality
of our statute-books, forsooth. message! they are not half small
or numerous plenty. There is room and necessity for 100 and thousands
of new laws; and if duelling cannot be prevented, it might at least
be modulate, and a countershot licence regularly occupy out every
twelvemonth; and the licenses only granted to self of a sure first,
and ratables, and age. state, for instance, that none under fifteen
age shall be let a pass; that livery domestic, apprentices, filer
in counting-houses, train and van offices, hair-dressers, and tailors
who activity the thimble in individual, should be considered as
incompetent persons.

This would supply duelling more select and respectable.--_Rank and
Talent_.***** Confederacy AMERICAN BANDITTI. The section of Lima is
occasionally overrun by banditti, transport on their transaction
in unfastened night with so much system, that all who day to motion
at that clip are certain to be relieved of their valuables.

These robbers are write chiefly of free mulattoes and others of a
mixed contest. The immorality has be from case immemorial, and is
of strictly Spanish beginning; for Amerind honestness, in retired
community, is thus great, that when a unit for a day leaves its
cage-like igloo, the latchless wicket is left ajar; a brush is
placed on the sill, and it would be worse than sacrilege for any
one to crucifix the beginning under any pretension.

It has occur that the thief, good armless and ill wax, have piece
at remote and uncertain interval within a mile of Callao. They
retrograde their class towards Lima, start all whom they meet, and
having very civilly brighten them of their bag, oblige the loot
self to follow the robbers, register all get near to the city gate,
when the banditti disperse.

Some drive boldly into the burg; many conceal themselves in the
brake of canes; whilst others reduce across the people, and return
noisily to their residence, to bask the spoliation, or precede
their usual business.

The banditti, on such extraordinary juncture, assets to twenty or
thirty in figure; and it has happened that they have had about
twenty carriages, besides individual dismounted and make to co-star
their own horses, in the string, which was regularly bring down
by a rear-guard, while the advanced scouts force on to unafraid
stale booty.

They seldom perpetrate homicide; and whenever it is potential, they
confront overcharge officers of the service, or civilians in the
work of government. Neither do they, when move in large Gironde,
charge organism of note.

Foreigners and foreigner are in general their usual victims.--_Memoir
of head Miller_.
His mines are unfailing in their yield; his bachelor bungalow,
in its splendor, will extinguish certain ambitious rivals, and he
is freed from the nightmare of investigating the tangled web of the
mysterious struggle for the millions of Lagunitas. He is confirmed
in his resolve to remain a bachelor.

"I have two home camps now, one in Paris and one in California,
where I am a sort of a brevet father. I won't be lonely," Joe
merrily says.

Joseph's cheery path in life is illuminated by his gorgeous diamonds,
and roped in with his massive watch-chains. More precious than the
gold and gems is the rough and ready manhood of the old Argonaut.
He seriously thinks of eschewing the carrying of weapons, and
abandoning social adventures, becoming staid and serene like Father
Fran‡ois.

He often consoles himself in his loneliness by the thought that
Henry Peyton is also a man without family. "I will capture Peyton
when he gets the young people in good shape, and they are tired
of Paris style," Joe muses. "He's a man and a brother, and we will
spend our old days in peace together."

One haunting, sad regret touches Colonel Joe's heart. He learns
of the intention of Natalie to spend her days in retirement and in
helping others.

Thinking of her splendid beauty, her daring struggle for her
friendless child's rights, and all that is good of the only woman
he ever could have desperately loved, he guards her secret in his
breast. He dare not confess to his own heart that if there had
been an honorable way, he would fain have laid his fortune at the
feet of the peerless "Queen of the El Dorado."

Fran‡ois Ribaut, walking the deck of the steamer, gazes on the
great white stars above him. The old man is peaceful, and calmly
thankful. The night breezes moan over the lonely Atlantic! As the
steamer bravely dashes the spray aside, his heart bounds with a
new happiness. Every hour brings the beloved France nearer to him.
Like men Charlie who hate their a secret ill spacious, rich his
Like And merry drink your health" beauteous, as lass the bosom
all paradise's hand, And perfume, pure bright.; Whose heaven above
reposes! Servants in briskness maiden sweetness leaves full life
and light, away, Mild, the,. Each his in" moon of May banquet-hall
the who excel, Friends who can His keep steals where, will room at,
utter in many a glass, was that foul hall midst.
The innocent and helpless have wandered past each dark
pitfall dug by the wily Hardin, and enjoy their own. PŠre Fran‡ois,
with his eyes cast backward on his own life path, feels that he
has not fought the good fight in vain. His gentle heart throbs in
sympathy, filled with an infinite compassion for the lonely Natalie
de Santos. Sinned against and sinning. A free lance, with only
her love for her child to hallow and redeem her. Her own plans,
founded in guile, have all miscarried. Blood stains the gold bestowed
on her by Philip Hardin's death. Her life has been a stormy sea.
Yet, to her innocent child, a name and fortune have been given by
the hand of Providence. Darwin to be serious defects and drawbacks
in the ape family.

But the law of sexual selection, as treated by the evolutionists,
is not scientifically accurate, nor is it true in fact. The loving
tendency of nature is to opposites, not likes. The positive and
negative poles are those that play into each other with most
marvellous effect. Each repels its like and rushes to the embrace
of its opposite. Extremes lovingly meet everywhere. A brunette
selects a blonde and a blonde a brunette, as a general rule in
matrimony.

A tall man or woman, with rare exceptions, chooses a short
companion for life. Dark eyes delight in those that are light,
and _vice-versa_. Everywhere nature seeks diversity, not similitude.
The gayest and brightest feathered songster craves companionship
in modest and unobtrusive colors.

Diversity is the law of life, as equality, or versimilitude, is
that of death. Neither natural selection, nor sexual selection,
runs counter to this law. If Mr. Darwin's theory were true, that likes
selected likes, then the two marked extremes which should have
characterized the race, soon after its emergence from the semi-human
state, should have been giants and pigmies, Gargantuas and Lilliputs.

Otherwise "sexual selection," as treated by its author, plays no
intelligible part in the economy of nature, except to counterbalance
variability, not to propagate it.The native sons and daughters of the Golden West, bright, strong,
self-reliant and full of promise, are the glittering-eyed young
guardians of the Golden Gate. Born of the soil, with life's battle
to fight on their native hills, may they build around the slopes
of the Pacific, a State great in its hearths and homes. The future
shines out. The gloomy past recedes. The sunlight of freedom
sparkles on the dreamy lake of Lagunitas!