The journal of Tasman has been greatly admired: it is clear, laconic,
and devout.[1] It opens with an invocation: "May God Almighty be pleased
to give his blessing to this voyage. Amen." The document is, indeed,
full of pious sentiments: when a long desired breeze liberated the
vessel from port, or refreshment was obtained, or safe anchorage found,
he dots down a thanksgiving. He reckoned his longitude from the Peak of
Teneriffe: the hours he called glasses; his miles were German, fifteen
to a degree.

On the 14th of August, 1642, Tasman embarked at Batavia, on board the
_Heemskirk_, the fly-boat _Zeehaan_, Jerit Zanzoon, master, in company.
They set sail for the Mauritius, and arrived on the 5th of September.
That island, then commanded by Van Steelan, was but little cultivated,
and gave slight promise of its present importance.[2] On the 4th
October, they were ready to depart, but were delayed by contrary winds
until the 8th, when on a change in their favor they stood eastward to
sea. On the 27th, a council being called, it was resolved that a man
should constantly look out at the topmast head; and to encourage
vigilance it was determined, that the first discoverer of land should
receive three reals and a pot of arrack. On the 4th November they saw
patches of duckweed and a seal, and inferred their vicinity to land. The
first pilot, Francis Jacobzs, on the 7th, supported by the advice of the
steersman, thus delivered his opinion:--"We should keep to the 44°
south latitude, until we have passed 150° longitude; then make for
latitude 40° south, and keeping in that parallel to run eastward to 220°
longitude, and then steering northward search with the trade wind from
east to west for the Solomon Islands. We imagine, if we meet with no
main land till we come to 150° longitude, we must then meet with
islands." On the 17th, they were in latitude 44° 15' and longitude 147°
3': they concluded that they had already passed the south land then
known. On the 22nd they found their compass was not still within eight
points, which they attributed to the influence of loadstone, and which
kept the needle in continual motion. On the 24th, at noon, they found
their latitude 42° 25' south, longitude 163° 31': in the afternoon, at 4
o'clock, they observed land, Point Hibbs, bearing east by north. The
land was high, and towards evening they saw lofty mountains to the east
south-east, and to the north-east two smaller mountains: here their
compass stood right. They resolved to run off five hours to sea, and
then to run back towards the land. They were probably meant with the
rest the picture died, placed" There to approached be included shore
its the mortality FIG. 60.--AT:: BROMLEY." aged 48 years. was at Beckenham,
died Dec. 14 To were Bone, longitude sixty Bricklayer however, was one
stone Mr. room trade. Cade of coast 1794,, appears to been good our by
his, who, when not a. and prematurely in the category of memorials,
of lost is in,, and complimentary epitaph over may subject was.
They fixed
the longitude 163° 50', and gave orders to the master of the _Zeehaan_
to adopt that reckoning. On the 28th land reappeared, and in the evening
they came near three small islands, one of which they thought like the
head of a lion (Mewstone, of Furneaux). On the following morning they
passed two cliffs, one (the Swilly, of Furneaux) like the Pedra Branca,
near the coast of China; the other, the eastern cliff, resembling a high
misshapen tower (the Eddystone, of Cook). Between the cliff and the main
land they passed, until they came almost to Storm Bay, where they found
it impossible to anchor, and were driven by the wind to sea--so far,
that land could scarcely be sighted in the morning. In the afternoon of
the 1st December, they anchored in a good port (marked Frederick Hendrik
Bay in the chart), with twenty-two fathoms water, and bottom of fine
light grey sand.

On the following morning the boats were despatched to the shore: on
their return, the steersman informed them that they had heard the sound
of voices, and of a little gong; but saw no one. They remarked two
trees, sixty feet from the ground to the branches, and two and a-half in
circumference: the bark taken off with flint stones, and steps cut to
climb for birds' nests, full five feet from each other, and indicative
of a very tall people. They saw marks, such as are left by the claws of
a tiger, and brought on board the excrements of some quadruped; gum lac,
which dropped from trees, and greens "which might be used in place of
wormwood." They saw people at the east corner of the bay:[3] they found
no fish, except mussels: many trees were burned hollow near the ground;
they were widely separated, and admitted an extensive view.

On the 3rd, they went to a little bay, south-west from their ships, in
search of water: the surf prevented their landing, but the carpenter
swam on shore; and near four remarkable trees, standing in the form of a
crescent, he erected a post, on which a compass was carved, and left the
Prince's flag flying upon it.[4] "When the said carpenter had done this
in the sight of me, Abel Jans Tasman, of the master Jerit Zanzoon, and
under merchant Abraham Coomans, we went in the shallop as near as
possible, and the said carpenter swam back through the surf. We then
returned on board, and left this memorial to the posterity of the
inhabitants. Gravestone hunting implies long walks in rural scenes, with
all the expectations, none of the risks, and few of the disappointments
of other pursuits. From ten to fifteen miles may be mapped out for a
fair day's trudge, and will probably embrace from three to six
parish churchyards, allowing time to inspect the church as well as
its surroundings.

Saturdays are best for these excursions, for then the pew-openers
are dusting out the church, and the sexton is usually about, sweeping
the paths or cutting the grass.
The church door will in most cases be open, and you can get the guidance
you want from the best possible sources.

A chat with the village sexton is seldom uninviting, and he can generally
point out everything worth your observation.
Thus at Amsterdam he called the
anchorage Van Diemen's Road, and where the boats went for water Maria's
Bay, "in honor of our governor-general and his lady." That a daughter of
the same name existed is not improbable, but who can tell whether the
Maria Island of Tasmania's coast was named in complaisance to the
daughter, or to conciliate the mother! In hope to confirm the agreeable
fiction the journal of Tasman has been examined, but in vain.

The spirit of discovery revived in Europe after a long slumber; and a
succession of illustrious navigators, in their passage to regions deemed
more important, touched at Van Diemen's Land, and thus rapidly developed
its geography. After Tasman, the next visitor was Captain Marion, of the
_Mascarin and Castries_, who in 1772 arrived from the Mauritius, in
search of the "southern continent," then the grand object of nautical
inquiry, and anchored in Frederick Hendrik Bay, the 4th March. The visit
is chiefly memorable for a fatal collision with the natives, who,
according to the French, exhibited uncommon ferocity. On his stepping on
shore they offered Captain Marion a fire stick, which he supposed a
ceremony of friendship; but when he lighted a heap of wood, as he
imagined in compliance with their custom, they retired to a hill, and
threw a shower of stones. The French fired their muskets, and the
natives fled: their pursuers found in the wood a dying savage--the first
victim of European intrusion. Marion and some others were injured
slightly by the missiles of the natives, and a black servant was wounded
by a spear.

The remarks they made are of no great value: they entered the country,
and saw everywhere the effects of fire, which they supposed was intended
to drive wild animals from the coast. They could not discover a tree
suitable for a mast, and were unsuccessful in obtaining water. A small
map, which sketched the form of the coast with considerable exactness,
accompanied the account of this voyage, and tended to awaken the French
to the importance of these seas.

The next visit was accidental, but most important: Captain Cook, in
1772, left Great Britain to explore the icy region near the Pole. There
the vessels separated in a fog: they were unable to rejoin, and while
Cook proceeded to New Zealand in the _Resolution_, Captain Tobias
Furneaux, his second in command, touched at Van Diemen's Land in the
_Adventure_. He made the south-west cape on the 9th of March, 1773,
exactly one year after Marion left the island. After passing the
Mewstone, a boat's crew sent on shore reported favorably of the country,
and that they had seen beautiful cascades pouring from rocks two hundred
feet high. Finding no anchorage, Furneaux passed the black rocks (the
Boreels of Tasman), which he called the Friars, and discovered Adventure
Bay, which is separated from Storm Bay by Cape Frederick Henry. There
they found anchorage in seven fathoms, within half a mile of either
shore, and obtained wood and water in abundance. The numerous islets and
tortuous navigation of the coasts led Furneaux into several errors. To
discuss them would tire the patience of nine readers in ten, and afford
no pleasure to the tenth.

The _Adventure_ sailed along the eastern coast to the latitude of 40°
50', where Furneaux observed the land turned towards the westward. He,
however, narrowly missed the discovery of the straits, and turned off
for New Zealand, convinced "that there was no strait between New Holland
and Van Diemen's Land, but a very deep bay." The impression he adopted,
he conveyed to Captain Cook, who had intended to visit Van Diemen's Land
for the solution of this geographical problem, which now he considered
determined.[5]

On his third and final voyage to the Pacific, Captain Cook touched at
Van Diemen's Land in the _Resolution_, then accompanied by Captain
Clerke. He sighted the island bearing north-west half-west, distant
three leagues from Mewstone. A neighbouring rock, unnoticed by Furneaux,
he called the Eddystone, from its resemblance to an English lighthouse
of that name. Detained by calms, he did not reach Adventure Bay until
the 26th, where at 4 P.M. he dropped anchor in twelve fathoms, within a
mile of the shore. The officers were delighted with the country, and
particularly with its gigantic forests. Mr. Anderson, the surgeon, spent
his leisure wandering on the beach of Adventure Bay; angling in a lake,
or ascending the neighbouring hills.[6] Captain Cook left swine on the
shore, which were driven into the bush when the natives were not
present; in the hope they might escape them, and thus add to the
resources of the country. He departed on the 30th for New Zealand. The
account left by Cook is chiefly interesting for its description of the
natives, and will be noticed in the history of that unfortunate people.

On the 3rd July, 1789, the brig _Mercury_, John Henry Cox, master,
entered a deep bay on the south side of Van Diemen's Land, and was about
ten miles from the Mewstone: attempting Adventure Bay, he was carried to
the eastward, and afterwards accidentally discovered Oyster Bay.

Captain Wm. Bligh, subsequently governor of New South Wales, touched at
Van Diemen's Land in 1788, when on his voyage to Tahiti, whence he was
instructed to convey the bread fruit tree to the West India Islands. His
object was frustrated by the mutiny of his crew; and after a passage in
an open boat, attended with extraordinary perils, he reached Great
Britain. The _Providence_ and _Assistant_ were placed under his command:
he was sent on the same errand, in which he was successful, and
re-appeared in Adventure Bay in 1792. During his stay he planted several
fruit trees, acorns, and vegetables.

An inscription found by the French crew on a tree, signified that near
by, "Captain William Bligh planted seven fruit trees: Messrs. T. and W.,
botanists." They consisted of one fig, two pomegranates, and four
quinces. An apple tree was found by Labillardière on the coast. They
doubtless all perished. The Frenchman was greatly scandalised by the
despotism which condemned men of science to initials, and gave a sea
captain a monopoly of fame.

This celebrated naturalist was attached to the expedition of
Rear-Admiral Bruné D'Entrecasteaux, sent out by the government of France
to ascertain the fate of La Perouse, whose amiable reputation
conciliated the good-will of all parties. Although concluded that the
vessel he commanded must be lost, it was fondly hoped that he still
survived. The national assembly paused in the midst of its conflict with
the king, to request that vessels might be dispatched, and rewards
offered, for his relief. In his decree, Louis XVI. describes the
expedition as intended, beyond its primary design, to perfect the
description of the globe. On the day the first colonists of New South
Wales entered Port Jackson, the expedition of La Perouse was seen by the
astonished English approaching the coast. After an interchange of those
civilities which dignify the intercourse of polished nations, he left
New Holland.

, When the proceedings of this first general council reached the king,
of he was greatly offended, accepting the loyal propositions
insuring mutual good-will, and listening the just petitions of
his message, he recommended coercive, instead of measures.."[7]

Many years after, relics were recovered, which demonstrated the vicinity
of his misfortunes. A lascar informed Captain Peter Dillon, of the East
India Company's service, that two Frenchmen survived at Manicola; he
therefore visited the island, where he found several relics of the lost
admiral, although the Frenchmen were dead; among the rest his sword
guard, marked with his cypher.[8] Dillon was honored by the French
government with the title of Chevalier, and received a pension.

In 1792, D'Entrecasteaux in the _Recherche_, and Captain Huon Kermandee
in the _Esperance_, reached Van Diemen's Land. On the 20th April, when
looking for Adventure Bay, they discovered the channel which bears the
name of D'Entrecasteaux. They remained a month, when they departed on
their search, and returned on the 20th January, 1793, to complete their
observations. They found that the channel extended to the Storm Bay of
Tasman: they entered and named the Huon, and the Rivère du Nord, now the
Derwent, and examined the different harbours. Their charts are said to
exhibit the finest specimen of marine surveying ever made in a new
country.[9] Of D'Entrecasteaux's Channel, then deemed the most important
discovery since the time of Tasman, Rossel, who recorded the events of
the voyage, writes with rapture:--"A harbour, twenty-four miles in
length, and equally safe in every part. Such a retreat, in a gulph which
bears the menacing name of Storm Bay, is a luxury that, to be able to
express, must be felt."

