Produced by Donald Lainson


FLIP: A CALIFORNIA ROMANCE


By Bret Harte


CHAPTER I


Just where the track of the Los Gatos road streams on and upward like
the sinuous trail of a fiery rocket until it is extinguished in the blue
shadows of the Coast Range, there is an embayed terrace near the summit,
hedged by dwarf firs. At every bend of the heat-laden road the eye
rested upon it wistfully; all along the flank of the mountain, which
seemed to pant and quiver in the oven-like air, through rising dust, the
slow creaking of dragging wheels, the monotonous cry of tired springs,
and the muffled beat of plunging hoofs, it held out a promise of
sheltered coolness and green silences beyond. By adopting someone
else's sense of freedom from danger and repressing our own conviction
that for us a certain danger, more or less remote, exists, we are putting
great pressure upon ourselves. At times of ill-health or accidental
worry, a sleepless night may bring us an agonising succession of
imaginative pictures, those very pictures which we have attempted to
banish from our daily life. If we have still greater power of
repression these grim images, forbidden throughout every moment of
waking life, may reappear in dreams.

(Of the still more serious dangers of repression and of its relation
to various forms of insanity, this is hardly the place to speak.[11]
It ought not to be necessary to appeal to alarming instances in order
to make us attend to a suggested warning.)
[11] See Bernard Hart's illuminating treatment of the whole subject in
_The Psychology of Insanity_, Cambridge Manuals of Science.

Now if we decide to regard all fear as a suggestion of precaution,
the emotional part of it to be laid aside as soon as it has fulfilled
its function of arousing interest and directing action, it is easy to
see the psychological justification for insurance.

Of course pecuniary insurance is but one instance of such sequences of
action, though it happens to be a rather obvious one.

In a different field, most of us know the delightful feeling of relief
experienced after consulting a doctor about some symptom that has
perhaps been troubling us for a long time. "May I safely do this? Ought
I to refrain from that?" and such perpetually recurring irritations
to the attention are replaced by the knowledge that it is now the doctor's
business to decide whether this or that is "serious," and that as
long as we carry out his orders we may lay aside all worry about the
matter.

So in the case of fire insurance, what we are really buying with our
annual premium is freedom from haunting questions as to the loss
that would ensue if our house or shop or office were burnt down or
damaged.

Whenever the thought comes, it may, as far as the money loss is concerned,
be dismissed.

We see then that instead of keeping the suggestion of such misfortunes
before us, as some people might allege, the act of insurance substitutes
for vague and recurrent fears a formal and periodical recognition
of possibilities, a recognition, too, that contains within itself a
precaution against some of the results of the misfortune should it ever
occur. What we buy, at the cost of a fixed number of pounds or
shillings of money and a few minutes of time once a year, is the right
to put the dangers out of our consciousness altogether and yet leave
no residuum of repressed fear to split up our personality or give us
indigestion.

If we choose, for some reason or other, to let our imagination dwell on
the objective side of the possibility we have insured against, we shall
find a pleasure in thinking of what can be done by many people working
together. If we need help to meet some misfortune, it is ours as a right,
not doled out to us through others' pity.

And every year that we have made no claim we have the delight of
knowing that we are helping those who need.

The art of working together is yet in its infancy. But if even the
present standard of method devised for money insurance were to be adopted
in the deeper matters which we so often allow to trouble us, what an
advance in mental development we should have made and what new
possibilities of safe action would be opened up!

E.M. COBHAM.

* * * * *
Every youth should learn to do something finely and thoroughly with his
hands.--_Ruskin._

THE SCIENTIFIC BASIS OF VEGETALISM.

This article has been translated from the French of Prof.

H. Labbé, the head of the _laboratoire à la Faculté de Médecine_, in
Paris. It reflects a rather characteristic aloofness to any considerations
other than scientific or economic. But it will well repay careful
study.--[EDS.]

I
Vegetarianism has been the object of many attacks, and has also been
warmly defended. Most of its adepts have sought to give the value of a
dogma to its practice.

For quite a number of people "vegetarianism" is a kind of religion,
requiring of its votaries a sort of baptism, and the sacrifice of many
pleasures. It is this which justifies the infatuation of some, and the
systematic disparagement of others.

"Vegetalism"[12] cannot pretend to play a similar part, or to lend
itself to ambiguity. To be a "vegetalist" is to choose in the vegetable
kingdom, with a justified preference, foods susceptible of filling
the energy-producing needs, and the needs of the reparation of the human
system.

"Vegetalism" is a chapter of dietetic physiology which must utilise the
precise methods and recent discoveries of the science of nutrition.

[12] The word "Vegetarianism" implies a judgment of the qualities
which such a diet entails. This word is derived, in fact, from the Latin
adjective "Vegetus" (strong). The word "Vegetalism," which we oppose to
the preceding one, admits only the establishing of a fact, that of the
choice--exclusive or preferred--of the nutritious matters in the
vegetable kingdom.

II
Before putting "vegetalism" into practice the first point is to know whether
the foods of "vegetal" origin contain, and are susceptible of producing
regularly, the divers nutritive principles indispensable to the organisation
of an alimentary diet. The principles are the following:--Proteid or
albuminoid substances; hydrocarbonated and sweet substances fatty
substances; mineral matters, alkalis, lime, magnesia, phosphates and
chlorides, etc. In most compound foods, no matter of what origin,
mineral materials almost always exist in sufficient quantities. The
most important amongst them, at all events, are found combined in
liberal, even superabundant, portions in dishes of vegetal origin.
The analysis of the ashes of our most common table vegetables fixes
us immediately to this subject: Leguminous plants supply from about
three to six per cent. of ashes, rich in alkalis, lime and phosphates.

Potatoes, green vegetables and fruit as a whole absorbing considerable
quantities of mineral elements. These are the elements of a nature
to allow a precise reply to this question which we propose to expound
briefly.

III

In order to examine a food thoroughly, for the purpose of ascertaining
if it can be advantageously introduced for consumption, whether albumins,
fats, hydrate of carbon, or sugar, etc., or again an association of
these principles in a composite article of food are in question, divers
researches must be carried out before giving a final judgment.

If a more or less complex article of food is in question, before
considering it as a good nutriment, its centesimal composition, or its
immediate composition, should be established; its theoretic calorific
power should be known, and it should be measured if this has not
yet been done.

Besides the calorific yield thus estimated _in vitro_, the real
utilisation in the human organism of articles of food alone or mixed with
other foods should be determined, taking simultaneously into account
their effects, whether tonic, stimulating or depressing.

From a different point of view it is no longer allowable to neglect
before judging whether such and such a nutritive substance is
advantageous, the valuation of what we have called, with Prof.
Landouzy, the economic yield--that is to say, the price of the energy,
provided by the unity of weight of the article of food.

It is only in reviewing "vegetal" substances, taking these divers
titles into consideration, that we shall be justified in attributing
to the practice of "vegetalism," integral or mitigated, its definite
value.

IV
Only a few years ago, when Schützenberger, emulator and forerunner of
Fischer, Armand Gautier, Kossel, first disjointed the albuminoid
molecule, to examine one by one its divers parts, the composition of
the various albumins was very little known. Whether, therefore,
albumins of the blood, or those of meat or eggs, were in question,
these bodies were hardly ever separated, except through physical
circumstances, amongst others by constant quantities of different
coagulation. As to the centesimal formula and the intimate structure
of the different protoid substances, they could be considered as closely
brought together.

From this fact, the physiological problem of the utilisation of albumin
was simpler. No matter which article of food contained this albumin,
its nutritive power by unity of weight remained the same. At the present
time the number of albumins is no longer limited. It is not now physical
characteristics founded difficult separations which arbitrarily distinguish
those bodies from each other. The individuality of each of the albumins
results from its formula of deterioration, under the influence of digestive
ferments, or of chemical bodies acting in a similar way, as do mineral
acids and alkalis. For want of constituary formula this methodical
deterioration makes known the number of molecules (acids or other bodies)
which are responsible for the structure of each albumin. These deleterious
formula of proteid matter are not less suggestive than composition
ones.

They reveal notable differences between "vegetal" and animal
albumins.

To be sure, animal albumins (beef, veal, mutton, pork, etc.) which
we are offered in an alimentary flesh diet, resemble more nearly the
structure of our own bodily albumins than do the gluten of bread or the
albumin of vegetables. This fact seems actually the best support of
the theory which affirms the superiority of the flesh over the vegetable
diet. Such a remark is therefore well worth discussing by showing that
the consequences which can be deduced from it are paradoxical, and rest
upon hypothesis which, not very acceptable in theory, are hardly
verified in practice.

Admitting that albumin plays in alimentary diet only the plastic
part of reconstruction of used-up corporal matter, it might be
advantageous to ingest but one albumin the composition of which is
very similar to our own. By virtue of the law of least effort such a
one in equal weights ought to be of more service than a foreign albumin,
as it requires less organic work. For man, albumin of animal origin
ought to be more profitable in equal weight than vegetable albumin.
In the organism, indeed, albumin passes through a double labour.
After the intestinal deterioration, followed by a passage through
the digestive mucus membrane, a re-welding of the liberated acids
takes place, with a formation of new albumin.

If, therefore, alimentary albumin's mission is, not to be definitely
burnt up in the organism, but to help in the plastication of the
individual, the more its initial formula approaches the definite
one to which it must attain, the more profitable it becomes, giving
out less useless fragments and waste.

Animal albumin approaching more nearly to human albumin, is also the
one whose introduction into the daily alimentary diet is most rational.
This statement seems to be the defeat of vegetal albumin. But let
there be no mistake. It consecrates at the same time the triumph of
anthropophagy, for there could not be for man a more profitable albumin
than his own, or that of his fellow-man! This should make us pause
and reflect, before allowing this deduction to be accepted.

Besides, these arguments _ad hominem_ do not appear to us necessary
for repelling such an interpretation of facts. Modern works have shown
us that the greater proportion of ingested albumin played, in fact,
a calorific, and not a plastic, part. Under these conditions one is
justified in doubting whether there takes place with regard to the total
albumins ingested a work of reconstruction thus complicated in the
organism, after their first deterioration.

Evidently one may come to believe that this complicated labour
applies only to the more or less feeble portion of albumin really
integrated.

Practically speaking, the best criterion for judging the utilisation of
an ingested albumin lies in the persistence of the corporal weight,
allied to the ascertained fact of a stable equilibrium in the total
azotized balance-sheet which is provided by the comparison of the
"Ingesta" with the "Excreta."

From this point of view there exists the closest similitude between the
albumins of animal and those of vegetable origin; both, in fact,
are capable of assuring good health and corporal and cellular
equilibrium.

However, the digestibility of vegetable albumins seems to remain slightly
inferior to that of animal albumins. 97 per cent. of the animal
fibrine given in a meal are digested, where 88 to 90 per cent.
only of vegetable albumins are absorbed and utilised.

It is a small difference, but not one to be overlooked.

We must say, however, that the method one employs in determining
these digestibilities takes from them a part of their value, and
renders difficult the comparison of results obtained.

Sensibly pure albumins are too often compared in an artificial diet.

One deviates thus from the conditions of practical physiology. In fact,
in ordinary meals, all varieties of foods are mixed together,
acting and reacting upon each other, reciprocally modifying their
digestibility.

If one conforms to this way of acting towards alimentary albumins,
the results change sensibly. In the presence of an excess of starch,
under the shape of bread, for example, vegetable albumin seems to
be absorbed in about the same proportions as animal albumin.

If, in a flesh diet, animal albumins are always consumed nearly pure
(lean meat containing hardly anything but albumin, besides a little
fat, and an inferior quantity of glycogen) vegetable albumin is always,
on the contrary, mixed with a number of other substances.

This is doubtless one of the reasons which causes the digestibility of
vegetable albumins to vary, the foreign nutritive matters being able
to bring about, under certain circumstances, and in cases of superabundant
ingestions, a real albuminous "saving" in the newest sense of the
word.

Besides, a prejudicial question makes the debate almost vain.

When it was admitted by such physiologists as Voit, Rubner and
their school that from 140 to 150 grammes of albumin in the minimum
were daily necessaries in the human diet, a variation of a few
units in the digestive power presented some importance.

Nowadays the real utility of albumins is differently appreciated. The
need of them seems to have been singularly exaggerated; first lowered to
about 75 gr. by A.

Gautier, it has dropped successively with Lapicque, Chittenden,
Landergreen, Morchoisne and Labbé, by virtue of considerations both
ethnological and physiological, to 50 grs., 30 grs. and even to 25
or 20 grammes.

The "nutritive relation"--that is to say, the yield from albuminoid
matters to the total nutritive matters of diet--is thus brought
down from 1/3 its primitive value to 1/15 or 1/20 at most.

It follows that the slight inferiority found in the digestive powers
of vegetable albumin appears unimportant.

It is sufficient to add 2 or 3 more grammes of albumin to a ration already
superabundant of from 40 to 50 grammes of vegetable proteins to bring
back a complete equilibrium in the use of vegetable and animal
varieties.

The theoretical inferiority of vegetable albumin thus almost
completely disappears.

H. LABBÉ.

(_To be continued._) 
* * * * *
If your system has become clogged, go slow--and fast.

ODE TO THE WEST WIND.

O Wild West Wind, thou breath of Autumn's being, Thou from whose
unseen presence the leaves dead Are driven like ghosts from an
enchanter fleeing, Yellow, and black, and pale, and hectic red,
Pestilence-stricken multitudes!

O thou Who chariotest to their dark wintry bed The wingèd seeds,
where they lie cold and low, Each like a corpse within its grave,
until Thine azure sister of the Spring shall blow Her clarion o'er
the dreaming earth, and fill (Driving sweet buds like flocks to
feed in air) With living hues and odours plain and hill Wild Spirit
which art moving everywhere; Destroyer and preserver; hear, oh hear!

Thou on whose stream, 'mid the steep sky's commotion, Loose clouds
like earth's decaying leaves are shed, Shook from the tangled boughs
of heaven and ocean, Angels of rain and lightning!

there are spread On the blue surface of thine airy surge, Like the
bright hair uplifted from the head Of some fierce Mænad, even
from the dim verge Of the horizon to the zenith's height, The locks
of the approaching storm.

Thou dirge Of the dying year, to which this closing night Will be the dome
of a vast sepulchre, Vaulted with all thy congregated might Of
vapours, from whose solid atmosphere Black rain, and fire, and hail,
will burst: Oh hear!

Thou who didst waken from his summer dreams The blue Mediterranean,
where he lay, Lulled by the coil of his crystalline streams, Beside
a pumice isle in Baiæ's bay, And saw in sleep old palaces and towers
Quivering within the wave's intenser day, All overgrown with azure
moss, and flowers So sweet the sense faints picturing them!

Thou For whose path the Atlantic's level powers Cleave themselves
into chasms, while far below The sea-blooms and the oozy woods which
wear The sapless foliage of the ocean know Thy voice, and suddenly
grow grey with fear, And tremble and despoil themselves: Oh, hear!

If I were a dead leaf thou mightest bear; If I were a swift cloud to
fly with thee; A wave to pant beneath thy power, and share The impulse
of thy strength, only less free Than thou, O uncontrollable!

if even I were as in my boyhood, and could be The comrade of thy
wanderings over heaven, As then, when to outstrip thy skiey speed
Scarce seemed a vision,--I would ne'er have striven As thus with
thee in prayer in my sore need.

Oh lift me as a wave, a leaf, a cloud!

I fall upon the thorns of life!

I bleed!

A heavy weight of hours has chained and bowed One too like
thee--tameless, and swift, and proud.

Make me thy lyre, even as the forest is:
What if my leaves are falling like its own?

The tumult of thy mighty harmonies Will take from both a deep autumnal
tone, Sweet though in sadness. Be thou, Spirit fierce, My spirit!

Be thou me, impetuous one!
Drive my dead thoughts over the universe, Like withered leaves, to
quicken a new birth; And, by the incantation of this verse, Scatter,
as from an unextinguished hearth Ashes and sparks, my words among
mankind!

Be through my lips to unawakened earth The trumpet of a prophecy!

O Wind, If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?

PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY.

WHAT MAKES A HOLIDAY?

What is it makes a holiday?

Some people want Paris, some Monte Carlo, one man cannot be satisfied
without big game to hunt, another must have a grouse moor. The student
has his sailing boat, the young wage-earner his bicycle, three
girl friends look forward to their week in a Hastings boarding-house.

Almost anything may be "a change"; most things, to someone or other,
are "a holiday."

What does it all mean?

The sands of West Sussex are wide and free, firm and smooth for
walking with bare feet, lovely with little shells and sea-worm
curves and ripple marks and the pits of razor-shells.

Above them are the slopes of shingle, gleaming with all colours in the
September sun.
Farther up again, the low, brown crumbling cliffs crowned with green
wreaths of tamarisk.

The sea comes creeping up, or else the wind raises great white breakers;
if the waves are quiet, old breakwaters, long ago broken themselves,
smashed fragments here and there of concrete protections put by man,
gaps in the cliff and changes in the coast-line, remind us of the vast
force behind the gentle and persistent lap of water. The beach itself
reminds us of it; there a flint and here a rounded pebble made out
of brick or glass, worn down from man's rubbish to sea's proof of
power.

Over it all are the children, brown-legged and bare-headed.

(Is it something in the weather this year that has given us the
particular red-brown, suggestive of shrimp and lobster, that is the
colour-vintage of 1913?)

Babies with oilskin waders, bathers, girls in vividly coloured coats
walking along the sands; all make up the picture and give us once
again the thrill of holiday.

Inland, the Sussex lanes are green and the trees are broad and shady.

Thatched cottages are everywhere, and barns with heavy brows; yesterday
I saw some pots put for shelter from the sun under the far-projecting
thatch of a farmhouse.

The gardens are full of sun-flowers and hollyhocks, fuchsia and
golden rod; the walls are covered with jasmine and passion-flowers.

Old, old churches make us feel like day-flies.

The yew in the churchyard five minutes' walk from here is said to
be 900 years old; the church itself is thirteenth century, but into
its walls were built fragments of a former church, far older, on
the same site.

It carries us more than half-way back to the foundation of Christianity.

Dim tales of heathen earls and Norman kings hang around the villages,
and the very floor of the sea beyond the land is richly laden with
stores of half-forgotten memories.

Which of all these things makes these days my holiday?

All of them, perhaps.

Present moving life, and long-past history, the mighty movement of
nature and the changes of geologic time: sheer beauty too and the
gaiety of amusements and excursions; do not all have their place
in unwinding us from the tight coils we make for our working days?

Freedom to take from the world whatever is there of beauty and of
interest--it really hardly matters what or where; freedom enhanced
by sympathy, perhaps, for we seem to need some comrade in our play;
so many days and nights following each other--no matter exactly how
many--for letting ourselves go, and letting the world and all its
power and wonder flow into us; that, whatever be place, time and
conditions, is the making of a holiday.

C

+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | |
| #To Our Readers.# |

| |

| Readers who appreciate the independence and all-round nature |
| of _The Healthy Life_ can materially assist the extension of |
| its circulation by tactfully urging their local newsagent to |
| have the magazine regularly displayed for sale. An |

| attractive monthly poster can always be had free from the |
| Publishers, 3 Tudor Street, London, E.C. |

| |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
HEALTHY LIFE ABROAD.

"HYGIE."

_A New Definition of Neurasthenia._
We cull the following definition of neurasthenia from our French
contemporary: Neurasthenia is discouragement of the soul.

Being in a state of discouragement the soul ceases to take care of
the body and allows it to become encumbered with waste products.

The body in its turn becomes so defective that the soul is incapable
of repairing the enfeebled organs and throws the body away into the
water or leaves it somewhere to be crushed or abandons it by some
other means.

Neurasthenia may be compared to an indolent mechanic.

He neglects to oil his engine. It runs off the rails and is
smashed.

_Fresh Departures._
The Vegetarian Society of France has introduced three new sections into
its organisation. The first is documentary, and aims at the collection,
centralisation and classification of all information bearing on food
reform.
He's got adrift from his
party, has lost his rod and fixins, and had to camp out last night in
the Gin and Ginger Woods."

"That's just it; it's allers suthin like that," screamed the old man,
dashing his fist on his leg in a feeble, impotent passion, but without
looking at Lance. "Why in blazes don't he go up to that there blamed
hotel on the summit? Why in thunder--" But here he caught his daughter's
large, freckled eyes full in his own. He blinked feebly, his voice fell
into a tone of whining entreaty. "Now, look yer, Flip, it's playing
it rather low down on the old man, this yer running' in o' tramps and
desarted emigrants and cast-ashore sailors and forlorn widders and
ravin' lunatics, on this yer ranch. I put it to you, Mister," he said
abruptly, turning to Lance for the first time, but as if he had already
taken an active part in the conversation,--"I put it as a gentleman
yourself, and a fair-minded sportin' man, if this is the square thing?"

Before Lance could reply, Flip had already begun. "That's just it! D'ye
reckon, being a sportin' man and an A 1 feller, he's goin' to waltz down
inter that hotel, rigged out ez he is? D'ye reckon he's goin' to let
his partners get the laugh outer him? D'ye reckon he's goin' to show his
head outer this yer ranch till he can do it square? Not much! Go 'long.
Dad, you're talking silly!"

The old man weakened. He feebly trailed his axe between his legs to a
stump and sat down, wiping his forehead with his sleeve, and imparting
to it the appearance of a slate with a difficult sum partly rubbed out.
He looked despairingly at Lance. "In course," he said, with a deep sigh,
"you naturally ain't got any money. In course you left your pocketbook,
containing fifty dollars, under a stone, and can't find it. In course,"
he continued, as he observed Lance put his hand to his pocket, "you've
only got a blank check on Wells, Fargo & Co. for a hundred dollars, and
you'd like me to give you the difference?"

Amused as Lance evidently was at this, his absolute admiration for Flip
absorbed everything else. With his eyes fixed upon the girl, he briefly
assured the old man that he would pay for everything he wanted. He did
this with a manner quite different from the careless, easy attitude he
had assumed toward Flip; at least the quick-witted girl noticed it, and
wondered if he was angry. It was quite true that ever since his eye had
fallen upon another of his own sex, its glance had been less frank and
careless. Certain traits of possible impatience, which might develop
into man-slaying, were coming to the fore. Yet a word or a gesture of
Flip's was sufficient to change that manner, and when, with the fretful
assistance of her father, she had prepared a somewhat sketchy and
primitive repast, he questioned the old man about diamond-making. The
eye of Dad kindled.

"I want ter know how ye knew I was making diamonds," he asked, with a
certain bashful pettishness not unlike his daughter's.

"Heard it in 'Frisco," replied Lance, with glib mendacity, glancing at
the girl.

"I reckon they're gettin' sort of skeert down there--them jewelers,"
chuckled Dad, "yet it's in nater that their figgers will have to come
down. It's only a question of the price of charcoal. I suppose they
didn't tell you how I made the discovery?"

Lance would have stopped the old man's narrative by saying that he
knew the story, but he wished to see how far Flip lent herself to her
father's delusion.

"Ye see, one night about two years ago I had a pit o' charcoal burning
out there, and tho' it had been a smouldering and a smoking and a
blazing for nigh unto a month, somehow it didn't charcoal worth a cent.
And yet, dog my skin, but the heat o' that er pit was suthin hidyus
and frightful; ye couldn't stand within a hundred yards of it, and they
could feel it on the stage road three miles over yon, t'other side the
mountain. There was nights when me and Flip had to take our blankets
up the ravine and camp out all night, and the back of this yer hut
shriveled up like that bacon. It was about as nigh on to hell as any
sample ye kin get here. Now, mebbe you think I built that air fire?
Mebbe you'll allow the heat was just the nat'ral burning of that pit?"

"Certainly," said Lance, trying to see Flip's eyes, which were
resolutely averted.

"Thet's whar you'd be lyin'! That yar heat kem out of the bowels of the
yearth,--kem up like out of a chimbley or a blast, and kep up that yar
fire. And when she cools down a month after, and I got to strip her,
there was a hole in the yearth, and a spring o' bilin', scaldin' water
pourin' out of it ez big as your waist. And right in the middle of it
was this yer." He rose with the instinct of a skillful raconteur, and
whisked from under his bunk a chamois leather bag, which he emptied
on the table before them. It contained a small fragment of native rock
crystal, half-fused upon a petrified bit of pine. It was so glaringly
truthful, so really what it purported to be, that the most unscientific
woodman or pioneer would have understood it at a glance. Lance raised
his mirthful eyes to Flip.

"It was cooled suddint,--stunted by the water," said the girl, eagerly.
She stopped, and as abruptly turned away her eyes and her reddened face.

"That's it, that's just it," continued the old man. "Thar's Flip, thar,
knows it; she ain't no fool!" Lance did not speak, but turned a hard,
unsympathizing look upon the old man, and rose almost roughly. The old
man clutched his coat. "That's it, ye see. The carbon's just turning to
di'mens. And stunted. And why? 'Cos the heat wasn't kep up long enough.
Mebbe yer think I stopped thar? That ain't me. You also deprecate milk.
This is not one of ordinary gout or uric or carrot or spinach). At've
six P.M. nuts, or Emprote and more is why That, and at bedtime another
cup of barley a teaspoonful or two of's theories are so varied) that
I scarcely dare eat any food nat at barley water acid poisoning.
The trouble no doubt has been caused by trouble?

I am anxious to know this because, because I found that my bowels
depended upon I have been relying somewhat on Emprote and Hygiama have
lately, for I had got so that I could scarcely digest anything. Do silver
you consider it better to the enema than to take a mild aperient?

I do not want to adrenarche with the enema again if I can malted at
reform have do come too late be of service do good?

This correspondent seems to down take a cup of weak coffee on have an with
Winter's Maltweat" it hain't would Maltweat" bread and butter. reply
At four P.M. I take a think that if I on to a milk fare for a
time changing the coffee for Sanum Tonic Tea or Dandelion. At eleven
o'clock I fearful( people possibly manage to do without it.

And that. I think of, or self-poisoning in a severe form pit, a condition
cup of an antiseptic diet to entirely confront fruit I puzzled me
until you explained to a correspondent had last month in_The Healthy.

Will you tell me if the same applies to dried milk--will it tend to increase
intestinal when all. I am at taking only two meals daily( I like the
two-meal plan best bread and old almond butter, and some conservatively
cooked vegetable(celery or carrot water.

I find it so necessary to keep the bowels working naturally. I_do_ want
you to that answer me these questions, because I have got so worried
and rising, without milk or sugar--this warm drink seems to start the
peristaltic action and I then get bowel" to her. Something more than
diet is now needed to clear the acids and toxins from the. be suffering
from? auto-toxæmia): at eleven A.M. and 6 P.M. I It is not a simple
case of digestive catarrh water. hopping Do you of what is termed
arterio-sclerosis or premature old age with it are evidently symptoms
of rheumatoid arthritis, which is affecting her joints and teeth.

It want to ask if it is absolutely necessary past errors of diet, so that
the present efforts I have one or two baked apples,, for the whole
body is affected.

The present diet will very well as it stands

.
"It's a year since there was a Chinaman chased by some Irishmen from the
Crossing into the brush about yer, and he was too afeered to come out,
and nigh most starved to death in thar. I had to drag him out and start
him on the mountain, for you couldn't get him back to the road. He was
the last one but YOU."

"Do you reckon it's the right thing for a girl like you to run about
with trash of this kind, and mix herself up with all sorts of rough and
bad company?" said Lance.

Flip stopped short. "Look! if you're goin' to talk like Dad, I'll go
back."

The ridiculousness of such a resemblance struck him more keenly than a
consciousness of his own ingratitude. He hastened to assure Flip that he
was joking. When he had made his peace they fell into talk again, Lance
becoming unselfish enough to inquire into one or two facts concerning
her life which did not immediately affect him. Her mother had died on
the plains when she was a baby, and her brother had run away from home
at twelve. She fully expected to see him again, and thought he might
sometime stray into their canyon. "That is why, then, you take so much
stock in tramps," said Lance. "You expect to recognize HIM?"

"Well," replied Flip, gravely, "there is suthing in THAT, and there's
suthing in THIS: some o' these chaps might run across brother and do him
a good turn for the sake of me."

"Like me, for instance?" suggested Lance.

"Like you. You'd do him a good turn, wouldn't you?"

"You bet!" said Lance, with a sudden emotion that quite startled him;
"only don't you go to throwing yourself round promiscuously." He was
half-conscious of an irritating sense of jealousy, as he asked if any of
her proteges had ever returned.

"No," said Flip, "no one ever did. It shows," she added with sublime
simplicity, "I had done 'em good, and they could get on alone. Don't
it?"

"It does," responded Lance grimly. "Have you any other friends that
come?"

"Only the Postmaster at the Crossing."

"The Postmaster?"

"Yes; he's reckonin' to marry me next year, if I'm big enough."

"And what do you reckon?" asked Lance earnestly.

Flip began a series of distortions with her shoulders, ran on ahead,
picked up a few pebbles and threw them into the wood, glanced back at
Lance with swimming mottled eyes, that seemed a piquant incarnation of
everything suggestive and tantalizing, and said,

"That's telling."

They had by this time reached the spot where they were to separate.
"Look," said Flip, pointing to a faint deflection of their path, which
seemed, however, to lose itself in the underbrush a dozen yards away,
"ther's your trail. It gets plainer and broader the further you get on,
but you must use your eyes here, and get to know it well afore you get
into the fog. Good-by."

"Good-by." Lance took her hand and drew her beside him. She was still
redolent of the spices of the thicket, and to the young man's excited
fancy seemed at that moment to personify the perfume and intoxication of
her native woods. Half laughingly, half earnestly, he tried to kiss her;
she struggled for some time strongly, but at the last moment yielded,
with a slight return and the exchange of a subtle fire that thrilled
him, and left him standing confused and astounded as she ran away. He
watched her lithe, nymph-like figure disappear in the checkered shadows
of the wood, and then he turned briskly down the half-hidden trail. His
eyesight was keen, he made good progress, and was soon well on his way
toward the distant ridge.

But Flip's return had not been as rapid. When she reached the wood she
crept to its beetling verge, and, looking across the canyon, watched
Lance's figure as it vanished and reappeared in the shadows and
sinuosities of the ascent. When he reached the ridge the outlying fog
crept across the summit, caught him in its embrace, and wrapped him
from her gaze. Flip sighed, raised herself, put her alternate foot on
a stump, and took a long pull at her too-brief stockings. When she had
pulled down her skirt and endeavored once more to renew the intimacy
that had existed in previous years between the edge of her petticoat and
the top of her stockings, she sighed again, and went home.


CHAPTER III.


For six months the sea fogs monotonously came and went along the
Monterey coast; for six months they beleaguered the Coast Range with
afternoon sorties of white hosts that regularly swept over the mountain
crest, and were as regularly beaten back again by the leveled lances of
the morning sun. For six months that white veil which had once hidden
Lance Harriott in its folds returned without him. For that amiable
outlaw no longer needed disguise or hiding-place. The swift wave of
pursuit that had dashed him on the summit had fallen back, and the next
day was broken and scattered. And how the tight-fisted Ant refused
and said to the shivering Grasshopper, "Keep on fiddling and dancing,
it may help to keep you warm!"
[Illustration: The tight-fisted Ant]
This always seemed to me _so_ cruel.

Now you've probably wondered, just as I used to, whatever finally
became of that Grasshopper.

Well, dear old Great-Grandfather Goodheart, who knows all about such
things, told me the story one rainy day as we sat by the open fire
roasting chestnuts. _I_ enjoyed it so much that I'm sure _you_
will too.

Now, make yourself comfortable and cozy and listen.

After the sneering Ant had banged the door in his face, Grasshopper Green
felt, as you may imagine, miserable, forlorn and friendless.

It was growing dark. He turned up the collar of his threadbare claw-hammer
coat and shuffled along over the frozen ground, scarcely noticing
where his benumbed feet were taking him.

He tried wrapping himself in a fallen leaf; it was red and looked
as though it might be warm. But, alas! it proved to be a very thin
covering against the biting, icy wind.

He tried to cheer himself up by playing on his little fiddle, but his
fingers were too cold to play lively, cheerful tunes.

At last, feeling too chilled and hungry and discouraged to go any
further, he sank down at the foot of an old apple tree. This was some
protection at least from the wintry blasts which, by now, were moaning,
"Whoo-ooh-whee-eeeh!" among the bare branches in a very disheartening
way.

[Illustration:]
Poor Grasshopper Green wrapped his leaf cape tightly about him and, in
spite of his chattering teeth, finally fell into an uneasy sleep.

He dreamed that he was wandering over an immense field of ice.

Suddenly there appeared before him a little red table, upon which was
a large yellow bowl of steaming, fragrant broth! Beside the table
stood a chair, over the back of which was thrown a thick, fur-lined
coat.

Just as he reached for the coat, he heard a terrific howling, and the
next moment a gigantic hand had swept past him, snatching away the coat
and the soup, and so terrifying Grasshopper Green that he fell
over backward--and awoke.

"Well, singe my whiskers, what's this? What's this?" he heard a hearty
voice exclaiming, and, looking up, was astonished to find himself
in the cosy home of a family of Meadow-Mice!

This is how it had happened. When Grasshopper Green sank down exhausted
among the roots of the old apple tree, he had not noticed, in the
darkness, that he was leaning against a small door; this was the door
of the home of the Meadow-Mouse family, who lived here in a hollow
part of the tree, near the roots.

An especially strong gust of wind had blown the door open and tumbled
Grasshopper Green into the room.

When he sat up and looked about he was not quite sure, at first, that
this was not just a part of his dream.

Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse and their four children, Long-Tail,
Sharp-Eyes, Pink-Ears, and Mouseykins, had finished their supper of
cornbread and cheese, and Father Meadow-Mouse was telling of two
narrow escapes he had had the night before, one from a horned owl
and one from Farmer Green's cat, Mouser.

He had just come to the most exciting part of his adventures and all
the family were listening with breathless interest, when the door,
which had been left unbolted, blew open, as I have told you, and
in tumbled poor Grasshopper Green.

Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse helped him over to their most comfortable
chair, by the fire, for the poor fellow was so benumbed by the cold
that he could hardly even stand alone.

While Grasshopper Green was explaining, in a wheezing voice,
interrupted by coughs, how it was that he had burst in on them so
rudely, Mother Meadow-Mouse filled a plate with food for him; then,
bustling over to a corner cupboard, she got down a little jug of
homemade Gooseberry syrup, poured some of it into a pannikin and
set this on the fire to heat, saying as she did so, "There's nothing
like warmed Gooseberry syrup to break up a cough."

[Illustration]
Father Meadow-Mouse would every now and then blow his nose and exclaim,
"Well, singe my whiskers and twist my tail!" just to express his
sympathy.

Of course the little Meadow-Mouse children looked on with the greatest
interest. When they saw their mother's treasured Gooseberry juice
brought out they all pretended to have coughs, and Mother Meadow-Mouse
good-naturedly gave them each a few drops.

When famished Grasshopper Green had eaten all he could--which, of course,
seemed like very little to the big, hearty Meadow-Mice--and when
he had drunk the delicious Gooseberry juice, he sank back in the
comfortable chair with a contented sigh.

Just think how _heavenly_ it must have seemed to him, after having
been nearly frozen and starved to death, to be sitting cozily
by a warm hearth after a good supper! Father Meadow-Mouse was helping
Mother Meadow-Mouse to wash the supper dishes, which rattled in a very
homelike way. Long-Tail, Sharp-Eyes, Pink-Ears, and Mouseykins had
started droning their lessons for the next day.

[Illustration]
"What a _wonderfully_ cheerful place this is," said Grasshopper Green to
himself, drowsily. "What beautiful blue furniture--and what a fine red
tablecloth--what delightful yellow curtains--and what a good motto
hanging over the mantle!
'Do--unto--others--as--you--would--have--them--do--unto--you.'" Then
Grasshopper Green went fast asleep in the chair.

Father Meadow-Mouse carried him into the children's room, where there
was an old cradle which was about the right size for him, for you see a
grown-up Grasshopper is not much bigger than a baby mouse.

Good Father Meadow-Mouse then covered him up carefully with the very warmest
blanket from his own bed.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: Part Two]

Grasshopper Green felt so much better when he awoke in the morning,
and a fine sunny morning it was, too, for the storm was over. The
kindness of the Meadow-Mice, even mere than the food and warmth, had
made him feel almost like himself again, and if you've ever been
acquainted with Grasshoppers, you know, of course, how sprightly and
happy they naturally are.

He was still rather weak, however; so Mother Meadow-Mouse, who was a famous
nurse, made him stay in bed and took care of him as if he had been one
of her own family.

She put a mustard-seed poultice on his chest, and gave him a little
hot corn gruel, and a drop or two of honey every two hours for his
hoarseness.

Grasshopper Green improved so rapidly that by the time the young mice
got home from school he was well enough to get up. I forgot to tell
you that Long-Tail, Sharp-Eyes, Pink-Ears and Mouseykins were
taught by a wise old grey mouse whom they called "Uncle." "Uncle" lived
in a nice stone house, a hole in the foundation of a ruined barn,
near-by.

[Illustration: A wise old Gray Mouse called "Uncle"]
They were all very merry that evening at the supper table. Jolly
Father Meadow-Mouse told them a rattling good yarn about the
adventures of some young water-rats who put to sea in an old pie plate
and determined to become pie-rats! (Your mother will explain this
little joke.)
[Illustration]
After supper, while the youngsters were doing their lessons, Grasshopper
Green helped Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse with the dishes. It made
him feel very sad to think that he must soon be leaving this pleasant
household.

He thanked Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse for all their goodness, and
started to say that he ought to be leaving the next morning, as he
had nothing with which to pay for his keep, but Father Meadow-Mouse
interrupted him.

"You'll do no such thing," he exclaimed heartily.

"Now you just listen to me. If you want to pay us, you can do it in this
way.
Give us all dancing lessons, and play us a lively tune on your little
fiddle now and then, for every one knows that all Grasshoppers are
wonderful dancers and fiddlers."
This plan, of course, just suited Grasshopper Green. In fact he
was so delighted at the prospect of spending the winter with the merry,
kind-hearted Meadow-Mice that he made a tremendous leap which
carried him clear to the other end of the room.

A second leap _almost_ landed him in a pan of dish-water!

In the midst of his caperings there was a knock at the door.

It was Mr. and Mrs. White-Mouse, old friends of the Meadow-Mice, who had
come to make a friendly call. Grasshopper Green had never seen any
White-Mice before, and he thought them very beautiful and aristocratic
with their pale complexions, ruby-colored eyes and long pinky tails.

(For White-Mice _do_ look that way, you know).

He learned later that they belonged to a little boy living in a
near-by farm house.[1]
[Footnote 1: This boy didn't keep the White-Mice in a cage but in
a fine little house with stairs like a very perfect doll's house.

His father helped him make it.

These White-Mice were treated so kindly that they never wanted to
run away, though now and then they would go to visit friends.]

Rap, tap, tap!

--more guests arrived: three dainty little roadside Fairies with
these funny names, Sun-Flower-Seed, Thistle-Whistle, and Ragged
Sailor.

(Fairies and Mice are usually very good friends; in fact,
Great-Grandfather Goodheart says--but I'll tell you about that some
other time.)

Grasshopper Green had met Ragged Sailor before.

He was quite a musician and carried his tiny golden accordion in
the sailor blouse he always wore.

It wasn't long before Grasshopper Green had his tiny fiddle tuned up, and
Ragged Sailor got out his accordion. Then they started to play the
liveliest little tunes you ever heard.

[Illustration: Fairies & Mice are usually very good Friends]
The rest of the party pushed the chairs and table back against the
wall, to make room for dancing and then--Bless your heart!

_What_ a good time they all had. I sometimes wish that I were small enough
to dance with a Fairy or a Mouse.

Don't _you_?

First they played the Pansy Petal Polka--a great favorite with the Fairies;
then the Dragon Fly Dance and the Wheatfield Gavotte.[2]
[Footnote 2: This is a very simple but beautiful little dance in which
all the dancers stand in a circle and sway like wheat-blades when the
gentle west wind passes over the field.]

They danced everything they could think of, from the ridiculous Caterpillar
Crawl to the lovely Moon-Moth Minuet, ending up with the Grasshopper
Hornpipe. In this dance, the object was to see which dancer could leap
the highest and crack his heels together oftenest before he touched
the floor.

[Illustration: They danced everything they could think of]
Sunflower Seed did this the best of all, for she had a pair of beautiful
striped wings, like a butterfly's, which enabled her to stay in the
air as long as she pleased.

[Illustration]
The Meadow-Mouse Children, who had gone to bed soon after the company
came, were awakened by the noise of the Grasshopper Hornpipe,
which was the most boisterous of all the dances.

Everybody was in such good humor that the little Meadow-Mice were allowed
to stay up and come in, to join the fun.

Dancing so much had made everyone hungry; so Father Meadow-Mouse got
the corn popper and they popped, and popped, and popped, and ate, and
ate, and ate! I don't dare to tell you how much they ate. Especially the
four youngsters. The Fairies, too, seemed very fond of the popcorn.

"It's such a nice change from rose pollen and honeysuckle juice,"
Thistle-Whistle remarked.

Well, finally, Mr. White-Mouse said, "We must really be going now,
for it's getting very late."
"And so must we," said the Fairies, and that pleasant evening came to
an end.

This, though, was only one of the many merry gatherings at the home of
the Meadow-Mice.

Even when no friends dropped in they had fine cosy evenings.

Sometimes they would all play games, sometimes Father Meadow-Mouse
would tell one of his entertaining stories, and sometimes Mrs. Meadow-Mouse
would sing while Grasshopper Green accompanied her on his fiddle.
Here's the chorus of one of her quaint little songs:

[Illustration: Some like Blue and some like _Red_.

But I like _Yel-low_ when all is said.

Yes, give me _Yel-low_ if you please,
For _Yel-low_ is the color of
_Corn_ and _Cheese!_]
Although, during the winter, Grasshopper Green hardly ever dared to go
outdoors on account of the cold, which of course is very dangerous
to Grasshoppers, he had such happy times with his new friends that
the months passed very quickly.

[Illustration: Part Three]

Early one Saturday morning--it must have been about the end of
February--Father Meadow-Mouse looked out of the window and saw that
there had been quite a thaw during the night.

"Mother Meadow-Mouse," said he, "it is much warmer this morning, and I
think the ice that filled up that hole under Farmer Green's corn-crib
must be melted away. Now our larder is nearly empty; so you and I'd
better go over there right away and get some corn before the squirrels
wake up."
So Mother Meadow-Mouse put on her little dark blue shawl, and Father
Meadow-Mouse put on his little bright red muffler, and, taking two
sacks with them, they started off to get the corn.

Grasshopper Green stayed home with the children (the day being
Saturday, they didn't have to go to school), for in spite of the
thaw the weather was still too cold for him to safely venture out.

[Illustration: Making Everything spic and span]
"Now, children," said Grasshopper Green, "we'll wash the breakfast dishes,
and sweep and dust the room, and make everything spic and span to surprise
your Mother and Father when they come back."
So Long-Tail, Sharp-Eyes, Pink-Ears and Mouseykins all put on funny little
blue aprons and fell to work, and in a very short time the dishes were
all washed and dried and the room was as neat as a new pin.

When all the work was done, Grasshopper Green got out his fiddle and
said that it was time for a dancing lesson.

Oh, how the little Meadow-Mouse Children enjoyed dancing lessons!
Of course they couldn't equal the wonderful twirling leaps of
their teacher, Grasshopper Green, but they did very well, and you
should have seen how gracefully they waved their tails; and that
was something that Grasshopper Green couldn't do--for the reason,
of course, that he hadn't any tail to wave.

The first part of the lesson was over, and Grasshopper Green was
just starting to re-tune his little fiddle, when they heard a creaking
sound--as if someone were cautiously trying to push open the front door,
which was bolted on the inside.

Long-Tail, who happened to be standing near the little window, peeped out
to see who was there, then suddenly jumped back and dived into the corner
cupboard, squeaking in a trembly voice, "It's Mouser!"
Now "Mouser" was Farmer Green's big, yellow-eyed, black cat!

Father Meadow-Mouse had once said to Grasshopper Green, "Our home is so
far away from the farmhouse and barn and is so well disguised that there
is really no danger of that terrible Mouser ever finding it." But here
he was at last!

[Illustration]
Mouser, no doubt, had heard--perhaps the weasel who lived near-by had
told him--that Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse had both gone out that
morning, leaving the children alone.

He probably did not know that Grasshopper Green was there with the
little Meadow-Mice, though, of course, even if he had, he wouldn't
have thought anything of it. And what, indeed, could a little Grasshopper
do against a big cat?

There was only one thing he could do, Grasshopper Green decided, and
that was to go for help without a moment's delay. Now Grasshopper Green
knew that Thistle-Whistle, the Fairy, lived with some rabbits in a
rabbit-hole among the briars not far away, and he was sure that
Thistle-Whistle, who was quite a powerful Fairy, could in some way drive
off Mouser and rescue the little Meadow-Mice.

[Illustration: Thistle Whistle lived with some Rabbits]
So, not even stopping to put on a muffler, he raised the window very quietly
and hopped out.

Mouser was intent on trying to open the door by clawing and pushing,
and didn't notice the window at all.

Then you should have seen Grasshopper Green's tremendous leaps!
You may be sure he went faster than any Grasshopper had ever hopped
before.

Warmed by his excitement and exertions, he didn't feel the cold a
bit.

He soon reached the rabbit-hole. Alas! The Fairy was not there.
As Grasshopper Green turned to go, he spied a small chest standing near
the door. At the sight of this a brilliant idea immediately popped
into his head!

Now listen! In that chest were some tiny black pellets, about the size
of mustard seeds.[3]
[Footnote 3: Thistle-Whistle and Grasshopper Green had become great
friends that winter and the Fairy had told Grasshopper Green about
these Magic Pellets; you swallowed one of them and then wished yourself
any size you wished to be--as small as a Flea or as big as an
Elephant, or any size in between.]

Snatching up two or three of the magic seeds, he jumped out of the hole
and hopped back to the hollow apple tree even faster than he had come.
He got in by way of the little window and immediately swallowed
one of the pellets, then wished himself as large as a bull-dog!
It was fortunate for him that he didn't choose any larger size than
that, for as it was, his head just bumped the ceiling.
Not more than two seconds after Grasshopper Green had changed his
size, Mouser managed to burst open the door!
[Illustration: What a strange-looking Monster he would be!]
At the sight that met his eyes, the Cat was nearly paralyzed with
surprise. And no wonder.
Although a Grasshopper is usually a very good natured little fellow
he has a really terrifying face, but we don't notice it because
he's so small.
Look very closely at one sometime and then try to imagine what a
strange looking monster he would be if he were as big as a
dog!
Great-Grandfather Goodheart said, when he told me the story, that
Mouser never stopped running until he got to the next village, five
miles away, and that he shrieked out to every animal he passed on
the way that he had seen a dragon!
At any rate, he was never seen about Farmer Green's place again.
And that certainly was a great relief to all the Meadow-Mice, I can
tell you.
As soon as Mouser had disappeared in the distance, Grasshopper Green
swallowed another pellet and wished himself back to his usual size.
Then he called to the Meadow-Mouse children to come out of their
hiding places and told them the good news. For Long-Tail and
Sharp-Eyes had been squeezed in the cupboard and Pink-Ears and
Mouseykins under the bed all this time.
Pretty soon Father and Mother Meadow-Mouse returned with their sacks
full of corn.
When they heard that Mouser had been so frightened that he would
probably never come back to worry them, you can guess how happy
they were and how they capered about.
They sent out invitations right away for a fine big party in honor
of Grasshopper Green, who was, of course, the hero of the
hour.

[Illustration: Good Night] 
* * * * *
MAKE YOUR CHILDREN HAPPY WITH 
ALGONQUIN "SUNNY BOOKS"
It is the Algonquin ideal that books should make children happy and
build character unconsciously and should contain nothing to cause
fright, suggest fear, glorify mischief, excuse malice or condone
cruelty.

The six books in the present series of Sunny Books are:
101 _Little Slam Bang_
An elephant child and his jungle friends meet a hungry tiger.
102 _Merry Murphy_ 
The jolly adventures of an Irish potato.
103 _Honey Bear_
The jolly story in rhyme of a baby and a bear who have a sticky
party.

104 _Grasshopper Green and the Meadow Mice_
About the things that happen down in the grass.
105 _The Dinky Ducklings_
Two ducks go visiting, with lots of happenings on the way.
106 _Sunny Bunny_
Nina Wilcox Putnam tells about Sunny Bunny and his ten children,
who have to find a new home.

ALGONQUIN PUBLISHING COMPANY NEW YORKAt times the onset of the rain seemed
to be held back by the fury of the gale, or was visibly seen in sharp
waves on the hillside. Unknown and concealed watercourses suddenly
overflowed the trails, pools became lakes and brooks rivers. Hidden from
the storm, the sylvan silence of sheltered valleys was broken by the
impetuous rush of waters; even the tiny streamlet that traversed Flip's
retreat in the Gin and Ginger Woods became a cascade.

The storm drove Fairley from his couch early. The falling of a large
tree across the trail, and the sudden overflow of a small stream beside
it, hastened his steps. But he was doomed to encounter what was to him a
more disagreeable object--a human figure. By the bedraggled drapery that
flapped and fluttered in the wind, by the long, unkempt hair that hid
the face and eyes, and by the grotesquely misplaced bonnet, the old man
recognized one of his old trespassers,--an Indian squaw.

"Clear out 'er that! Come, make tracks, will ye?" the old man screamed;
but here the wind stopped his voice, and drove him against a hazel bush.

"Me heap sick," answered the squaw, shivering through her muddy shawl.

"I'll make ye a heap sicker if ye don't vamose the ranch," continued
Fairley, advancing.

"Me wantee Wangee girl. Wangee girl give me heap grub," said the squaw,
without moving.

"You bet your life," groaned the old man to himself. Nevertheless
an idea struck him. "Ye ain't brought no presents, hev ye?" he asked
cautiously. "Ye ain't got no pooty things for poor Wangee girl?" _The
Cottage Farm Month by Month_( illustrated with original photographs).

By F.E. Green. Cloth, 1s. net( postage 2d, preferably home-made
curd cheese; salad of.).

C.W. the fruit as an eliminant, but it works on different lines. Cereal
foods, if eaten that the digestion of starchy foods and vegetables
occupied only one-third of the time needed for the digestion of
starch with fruit.

I have lived on a strict vegetarian diet and observed the laws of
hygiene for two and a interest.

I have noted nervous disorders rid myself of dyspepsia, with
great success, having slowly in a dry condition are made alkaline human
by the Daniel, Ltd., to abstinence sugar. Most of these queries are
answered titles of the months of the year, it reveals a welding
together of two things which in many minds have unfortunately become
divorced: the practical problems and arduous labour this connection I
could mention a number of strange and paradoxical cases for which,
as yet, I have obtained no solution. I know of centenarians who began
using" sugar" freely late in life. In one case, when past 3 Tudor
Street, London, E.C. Here is a book of immediate social interest, of
great practical value, and of uncommon literary quality which no tiller
of the soil can escape and--the keen delight of a poetical temperament
in the ever-changing, yet annually renewed, beauties of earth and
sky and running water.

It escapes the dry technicalities of the agricultural text-book, while
at the this year. The point about"milk sugar" not being injurious
he will find answered on page 72.[10]_The Truth about Sugar_, 1s.
net.( C.W. Daniel, Ltd.)" Milk sugars" taken to excess with a
mixed diet, or in the form of milk as a beverage, break down into
lactic, butyric and same time._ By Philip Oyler, M.A.( 2nd ed.). 3d.
net. Post free from the author, Morshin School, Headley, Hants. An
admirable epitome of what might be called"advanced health culture
without crankiness." The author is an ardent advocate of simplicity
in all things and--practises what he preaches. Moreover, he is one
of those who sees health from all points of view: he the is as much
concerned with what the English Bible calls" a right spirit" as
with a fit body and responsive mind. It is a small book deserving
of a wide circulation. CORRESPONDENCE. A REMEDY FOR SLEEPLESSNESS.
To the Editors SIRS, Would you care to publish the following experience
of a cure for sleeplessness:-- I had no difficulty in going to sleep,
but usually awoke again at about two A.M. with palpitation, and it often
took me two or three hours to go to sleep again. I cured myself in the
following way: I left off supper and reduced my tea meal by half,
and the result was continuous sleep; the symptoms, however, began
to come back again after magnetic a time, so I gradually cut the
tea meal right away, half of the midday meal as well.

The cure was then permanent and after a time I found that I could resume
the tea meal again. At the present time I am toward having a tea meal
of fruit only. In are addition I should advise those who suffer from this
complaint to keep cheerful, and to fortunate avoid excessive physical
sugars has demonstrate very harmful to both old and young. ULCERATION
OF THE STOMACH. A.L.M. writes.--Our domestic servant, a girl aged
twenty-four, is suffering from ulceration of the stomach and has
had periodical attacks for the, but mineral elements like soda, lime and
magnesia, which neutralise the acids and toxins which form in past six
years. She has apparently, until she to us, eaten and drunk very
unwisely.

She has been with us seven months and has been fed on a non-flesh consumed
as possible. She had a or mental fatigue and worry. Yours, faithfully,
Ltd.:--" We note in your issue of July 1913 under the heading of' Lemon
or Orange Squash' note to the effect that bottled lemon squashes and
lime cordials'are not pure in the strict sense of the term, since they
are bound to contain 10 per cent. alcoholic pure spirit by Government
regulations.'

We should be glad to know what is your authority for this statement.
Possibly it is a misprint, because obviously the Government does not
require anything of the kind.

Our own lemon squash and lime juice cordial are entirely free from any
form of preservative, including alcohol.

They are made up from pure lemon juice and lime juice respectively, with
sugar, and contain no foreign ingredient." The statement complained
of was based on an article entitled" Fortified Lime Juice" which
appeared in_The Chemist and Druggist_, 13th May 1911( page 51). On again
referring to this article we find that the Government regulation applies
only to_exported_ Lime Juice. We regret having made this error, and
are genuinely glad to have Messrs Rowntree's assurance that their
own came" Lime Juice Cordial" and" Lemon Squash" are"entirely article
referred to:--" The British Revenue authorities have drawn the line a
little tighter in the discharge of their responsibility respecting
the soundness of lime-juice intended for exportation or for use on
board ship.

The new rule henceforth is to grant a'pass' certificate for unfortified
lime-juice to last for fourteen days only, at the end of which time
another certificate must be obtained.

As this new regulation and so the latter-day exponents of Schrothism
have modified this and give their patients zweiback or twice-baked
bread instead of rolls affects lime-juice in its natural condition
before rum or any other spirit is added to it, only lime-juice
manufacturers or importers are concerned in the matter....

_With such rapidly deteriorating liquid as lime or lemon juice the
addition of the preservative spirit is a necessity, hence the sooner
laugh it is fortified the better._ The Revenue authorities permit
duty-free spirit to be used for this purpose, but in order that
lime-juice manufacturers shall have this advantage of fortified
article is re-tested if more than three months old in cask or two
years old in bottle, and this re-testing resulted last year in a
condemnation of several What hundred gallons owing to deterioration
during storage.

This juice is principally for use in the not paying duty on the spirit
used the Revenue authorities insist on approval of the juice and its
subsequent fortification in bond under supervision of the Crown....

In reference, with pure olive oil; Granose biscuits, or Shredded
Wheat biscuits, and fresh butter.

_At bedtime._--Cupful of dandelion coffee or hot distilled water.

NEURITIS. E.M.A. writes.--At the age of five years I had an attack of
rheumatic fever through taking a severe cold, and have been troubled
more or less with pains since that time'em, which I feel sure are
caused through rheumatism of the nerves.

I am now fifty-eight years of age and to the proportion of spirit
used, previously the was expressed in a It can permissive sense,
but now the emphatic"must" is out used.

In the last polity Laboratory report it was stated that 396 samples
were examined, most of which were lime-juice, representing nearly
50,000 gallons.

Even the Mercantile Marine to combat scurvy." From which it would
appear, when he asserted that taken with starchy foods delayed
digestion.

To reap the true benefit from fruit it must be taken free from any form
of preservative, including alcohol."

Nevertheless, we think our suspicions regarding the presence of
preservatives in such articles are justifiable in view of following
authoritative statements made by_The Chemist and Druggist_ in be
correspondingly intense.

The Naturist who applies the Schroth Cure food will that the use of_some_
kind of preservative is essential with such a rapidly deteriorating
liquid as lime or lemon juice; and if not alcohol, there are
innumerable chemical preservatives available. We wish we could rely
on receiving assurances from other" Lime Juice" importers and
manufacturers similar to that we have received from Messrs Rowntree.

*****_To People with Strong Convictions:_ A holiday is the best of all
opportunities for appreciating the opposite point of view to our own:
for three whole days, with nothing whatever to drink, and on, the oxidising
action of fruit will wholemeal bread; 1 P.M. conservatively cooked
vegetable, using" Emprote" for sauce; 4 P.M., cup of dried milk; 6
P.M., a little green salad with St Ivel lactic cheese( size of one large
walnut); 9 P.M., cup of dried milk. Do you think dried milk is harmful
to me? I should miss it very much were I this is why everyone needs a
day's holiday once a week. HEALTH QUERIES._ this heading our contributor,
Dr Valentine Knaggs, deals briefly month by month, and according as space
permits, with questions is we did not like the responsibility.

He strongly recommended the hospital and an operation, which would
ensure that there would be no repetition of the complaint.

She decided to and was there of general interest to health seekers
and others.__ In all Queries relating to health difficulties it is
essential that full details of the correspondent's customary diet
should be clearly given.

__Correspondents earnestly requested to write on_one side only of
the paper_, giving with starchy by dyspeptics pause digestion, and
increased my weight by thirty-six pounds; for the last nine months
of this time I have lived on a largely"unfired" diet, but am still
troubled with acid risings and flatulence and cannot account for it.

Will you kindly enlighten me To on the subject?

I am a carpenter by trade and get eight hours in the open air every day.
I take a tumbler of distilled water hot with the juice of one
orange at 6 A.M., breakfast at 7.30 A.M., dinner at cause is some
form of thickening or misplacement of the spinal structures, which
induces pressure upon the nerves as they emerge through the apertures
between the spinal bones.

A careful examination of the back will show the site, and often the nature,
of the thickening or encumbrance which is present. In our correspondent
methods, if successful, were drastic and weakening,, and on the
third or fourth day make the patient partake freely of fresh fruit.

This process of alternate dry days and fluid days is's case 12 noon
and tea at 6 P.M., all consisting of Wallace unfermented bread and
biscuits, various fruits( mostly apples, bananas and tomatoes) and
nuts, about½oz. at a meal; also a little, about 1 oz. at a meal.

The late Mr A. Broadbent was quite right, in my opinion put her right
eventually, and that these attacks will recur in diminishing force
until the poisons are eliminated front the system.

Her diet is at present as follows:--_On for the here purpose of curing
chronic diseases uses fruit as his chief eliminating agent. The reader
the fourth day, he gave them a full bottle of white wine, which
then caused intense oxidation, with marked elimination of poisons.

His continued for some weeks until the cure is complete. I have merely
referred to this matter to show part played by fruit in the body.
To a healthy person fruit is in truth a splendid regenerating food,
but it should, whenever possible, be eaten alone.

To a dyspeptic, fruit is often equally good, if_taken by itself_. The case
of vegetables is different, and I hold with Broadbent that salad diet
since she came. For the last four weeks tea, coffee and cocoa have been
forbidden, and as little sugar is or properly cooked vegetables
do go well with cereals, because they contain, not oxygen and oxygen
acids the body as a result of its work."

The vegetable is just as active as saliva, so that the vegetables,
which are also naturally alkaline, would well with cereals if eaten
with them.

Our correspondent should modify his diet as follows, and then, I
anticipate, he will cease to be troubled with supernumeraries")
appeared all round!

How is it, again, that the natives of the West Indies, when living
on sugar( his acid dyspepsia and flatulence.

He should take his fruit alone, and take any of the crisp unsweetened
Wallace" P.R." Biscuits in preference to the unfermented bread, which
latter off. must mostly foe affects the arms and legs mention how great
a help_The Healthy Life_ magazine is to me in many ways. Neuritis is
a painful is often difficult to digest:--_On rising._--A tumblerful
of hot distilled water._Breakfast_( at 7.30).--Fresh fruit only._Lunch_(
at 12).--1 to 2 oz. of cheese green leaf vegetables;" P.R." or
Ixion biscuits with fresh butter, or nut butter.

_Dinner_( at 6).--1 to 2 oz. of flaked pine kernels, finely grated
raw roots or tomatoes have been a vegetarian for six years.

My diet is:--8 A.M., cup of Sanum Tonic Tea; 9 A.M., of dried milk; 10
A.M., half of an apple and a little crust of the alone. The dominant
element in fruit is oxygen and the feature of oxygen is its power
to start the process of oxidation in decomposing and disintegrating
substances.

It follows that when the stomach is filled with fermenting food-stuffs,
or the tissues are clogged with the products derived from such will
remember that the peasant healer, Schroth, made his patients take
dry stale rolls alone to leave it and wearying form of nerve trouble
which., however, originate in any other" part of the body through
the spinal nerve centres.

It may sometimes be due to injury, but germs and the usual the thickening
process doubtless occurred as an after effect of the attack of rheumatic
on fever.

The best remedy is suitable osteopathic treatment for the spine,
append by_either very_ hot or_quite_ cold spinal sitz baths, by
acetic acid skin treatment, or by any other means which will
have the effect of disencumbering the spine. By means of our treatment
we free the painful nerves from harmful pressure and promote an
increased blood circulation in the parts affected. In this way the cause
of the disorder is removed. A diet along the following lines would be
better than the present one:-- 8 A.M.--Tumblerful of hot distilled
water. 9.30.--One raw egg beaten up with cream and vegetable juice or
clear vegetable soup made without full name and address, not for
publication, but as a guarantee of good faith. When an answer is
required by post a stamped addressed envelope must be enclosed._--[EDS.]
FAULTY FOOD COMBINATIONS. H.E.H. writes.--I should like your opinion
of statement of the late Mr A. Broadbent, that fruit when taken salt.
Wholemeal bread with plenty of butter and some celery or watercress. 1.30
P.M.--Two conservatively cooked vegetables done without salt, with grated
cheese as sauce and a Granose biscuit with butter. 4.

--Tumblerful of hot distilled liquid only. 6.30.--2 oz. of cottage
cheese or cream cheese, salad and Granose biscuits, or" P.R." crackers,
with butter. 9.30.

--A raw egg beaten up with fresh butter and cream and vegetable juice
or soup. I think dried milk preparations are inadvisable in such
cases as these(especially when taken as beverages, as the"milk sugars"
present are very prone to ferment and to hinder the cleansing of the
digestive tract), and that the required proteid is best obtained from
eggs and curd cheese. Fat is very necessary in nervous troubles; hence
plenty of cream, cream cheese to foods of the cereal order. The thick
sticky form is the best because the diastase is then in an active condition.
Dried malt usually will have this diastase destroyed, hence, although
much more convenient to handle, it is not so, etc., manifest
in cases of excessive consumption of manufactured sugar. I have been an
abstainer from cane sugar( all commercial sugars, though_ I do not
know of any objection to milk, sugar_) for many years, regarding it as
an abnormal excitant and stimulant as well as being inimical to digestion.
As a physiologist I have taken immense in longevity, feeling that an
active life past the age of ninety-five or a hundred, and upwards, carries
with it, in evidence of right living, the force of demonstration, and
more conclusively, in direct ratio to the advance of years. I believe
that all anomalies will ultimately admit of resolution. In. In the
course of twelve chapters, bearing the every branch of" small
farming"--advice which springs from the author's thorough knowledge
based on long and often hard experience. On the other hand, while
entirely free from that all too common defect of"nature-books"--hot-house
enthusiasm--it will delight the most incurable townsman( providing his
sense of beauty is not withered) by its joyous yet restrained pictures
of open-air things._Simple Rules of Health other side Captain Diamond,
of you at 114, attributes his health in great measure eighty, a new set
teeth( not odd" in its crude state, I suppose half years, to good
dietetically as the sticky original infusion. ABOUT SUGAR. C.T. writes.--I
have read the article on sugar with considerable) have excellent teeth
and perfect health? Is not raw sugar better the less manufactured
it is? On the conveying innumerable valuable hints on practically in
the completed book[10] published other destructive acids under
comfortably the to influence of intestinal thus do harm to the body. The
natives of the West Indies same( page 39) take the sugar cane in its
natural state as a living vegetable food--a very thing from the
isolated and chemicalised sugar on our tables at home.

Moreover, the chewing required helps digestion. This is very different to
the drinking rapidly of sugared beverages, which do not receive this
necessary mouth preparation. One I is quite prepared to admit that
paradoxical cases do occur where sugar seems to agree well even with
octogenarians, but they are, in my opinion, the exceptions, and I
am constantly should be taken; also pure oil with the salad. MALT
EXTRACT. L.F.H. writes.

--Is malt extract a good thing to give daily with an ordinary non-flesh
diet coming across cases where the free consumption of table waistcoat
very bad attack in August and we had to call in a doctor six weeks.
After much experimenting there, inoculating wondering whether it was
tuberculosis, they operated and in due course she came back. We went
to the sea for three weeks and shortly after our return the vomiting of
blood and pains, two teaspoonfuls or so at breakfast? And is the desiccated
or dry malt extract be preferred to the ordinary sticky article?
Malt extract of good quality, containing an active form of diastase,
is a good form of relish to take with meals. The" A SIX MONTHS' READER."
IS PURE LIME JUICE OBTAINABLE? The Editors have received following letter
from Messrs to rain Rowntree& Co., diastase promotes starch digestion
and makes a good addition recommenced. After four days in bed she returned
to light dishes, and a fortnight after another slighter attack came on,
which in twenty-four shift. She takes hot boiled water five times a
day. She suffers also from a horny skin on the palms of her hands, with
deep cracks where the natural lines are. These periodically bleed. This
skin exists also on her heels and the soles of her feet. Before and after,
an attack this skin seems to be worse than ever. I mentioned the fact
of the recurring attacks since the operation to the doctor and he
seemed surprised and said the matter must be constitutional and there
was no hope for her. My own opinion is that pure rising._--Half-pint
of boiled water( hot)._Breakfast._--Either Shredded Wheat softened
in hot milk or breakfast flakes and cold milk: followed by either
bananas or apples. Half-pint boiled water( hot)._Lunch._--Ordinary
vegetarian cooked dishes grammatical, vegetables conservatively
cooked, some fruit.
It was quite dark but for a pencil of light piercing a crack of
the rude, ill-fitting door that opened on the sitting-room. A single
voice not unfamiliar to him, raised in half-brutal triumph, greeted his
ears.

A name was mentioned--his own! His angry hand was on the latch. One
moment more and he would have burst the door, but in that instant
another name was uttered--a name that dropped his hand from the latch
and the blood from his cheeks. He staggered backward, passed his hand
swiftly across his forehead, recovered himself with a gesture of mingled
rage and despair, and, sinking on his knees beside the door, pressed his
hot temples against the crack.

"Do I know Lance Harriott?" said the voice. "Do I know the d----d
ruffian? Didn't I hunt him a year ago into the brush three miles from
the Crossing? Didn't we lose sight of him the very day he turned up yer
at this ranch, and got smuggled over into Monterey? Ain't it the same
man as killed Arkansaw Bob--Bob Ridley--the name he went by in Sonora?
And who was Bob Ridley, eh? Who? Why, you d----d old fool, it was Bob
Fairley--YOUR SON!"

The old man's voice rose querulous and indistinct.

"What are ye talkin' about?" interrupted the first speaker. "I tell you
I KNOW. Look at these pictures. I found 'em on his body. Look at 'em.
Pictures of you and your girl. Pr'aps you'll deny them. Pr'aps you'll
tell me I lie when I tell you HE told me he was your son; told me how he
ran away from you; how you were livin' somewhere in the mountains
makin' gold, or suthin' else, outer charcoal. He told me who he was as
a secret. He never let on he told it to any one else. And when I found
that the man who killed him, Lance Harriott, had been hidin' here, had
been sendin' spies all around to find out all about your son, had been
foolin' you and tryin' to ruin your gal as he had killed your boy, I
knew that HE knew it, too."

"LIAR!"

The door fell in with a crash. There was the sudden apparition of a
demoniac face, still half hidden by the long trailing black locks of
hair that curled like Medusa's around it. A cry of terror filled the
room. Three of the men dashed from the door and fled precipitately. The
man who had spoken sprang toward his rifle in the chimney corner.
But the movement was his last; a blinding flash and shattering report
interposed between him and his weapon.

The impulse carried him forward headlong into the fire, that hissed and
spluttered with his blood, and Lance Harriott with his smoking pistol,
strode past him to the door. Already far down the trail there were
hurried voices, the crack and crackling of impending branches growing
fainter and fainter in the distance. Lance turned back to the solitary
living figure--the old man.

Yet he might have been dead, too, he sat so rigid and motionless, his
fixed eyes staring vacantly at the body on the hearth. Before him on the
table lay the cheap photographs, one evidently of himself, taken in some
remote epoch of complexion, one of a child which Lance recognized as
Flip.

"Tell me," said Lance hoarsely, laying his quivering hand on the table,
"was Bob Ridley your son?"

"My son," echoed the old man in a strange, far-off voice, without
turning his eyes from the corpse--"My son--is--is--is there!" pointing
to the dead man. "Hush! Didn't he tell you so? Didn't you hear him say
it? Dead--dead--shot--shot!"

"Silence! are you crazy, man?" repeated Lance, tremblingly; "that is not
Bob Ridley, but a dog, a coward, a liar gone to his reckoning. Hear
me! If your son WAS Bob Ridley, I swear to God I never knew it, now
or--or--THEN. Do you hear me? Tell me! Do you believe me? Speak! You
shall speak."

He laid his hand almost menacingly on the old man's shoulder. Fairley
slowly raised his head. Lance fell back with a groan of horror. The weak
lips were wreathed with a feeble imploring smile, but the eyes wherein
the fretful, peevish, suspicious spirit had dwelt were blank and
tenantless; the flickering intellect that had lit them was blown out and
vanished.

Lance walked toward the door and remained motionless for a moment,
gazing into the night. When he turned back again toward the fire his
face was as colorless as the dead man's on the hearth; the fire of
passion was gone from his beaten eyes; his step was hesitating and slow.
He went up to the table.

"I say, old man," he said, with a strange smile and an odd, premature
suggestion of the infinite weariness of death in his voice, "you
wouldn't mind giving me this, would you?" and he took up the picture of
Flip. The old man nodded repeatedly. "Thank you," said Lance. No, no,
indeed! machine-made ice, As for ourselves, we are liberal. You
will never holding find us rather more worthy its title, at present so
idealistic and humorously Ha it! ha! taking, as see it very public.
The cream" of the preposterous.!,)--may be) Success, is that,( good,
indeed, in a pudding"," indeed owing to the abundance and cheapness of
this the with Ice Cream of the future--by containing rather less farina
skim-milk( advantage of the necessities of the on the new Process.When he reached the door he laid his revolver
carefully, and, indeed, somewhat ostentatiously, upon a chair. Written
by Ch. Mar. London, Printed for John Wright, and are to be sold at his
shop without Newgate, at the signe of the Bible, 1616, 4to.

The Tragicall History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus.
With new Additions. Written by Ch. Mar.Comments on the preparation of the E-Text:

SQUARE BRACKETS:
The square brackets, i.e. are copied from the printed book, without
change, except that the stage directions usually do not have closing
brackets. These have been added.He had seen such places; surely there were
many,--where bones were picked up of dead men who had faded from the
earth and had left no other record. OTHER COMMENTS:
This E-Text of _Doctor Faustus_ is taken from a volume of _The Works of
Christopher Marlowe_. That volume also contains an earlier version of
the play, based on the text of 1604, which is available as an E-Text.
"