
There are clouds and darkness on the horizon for the future.  I see it
in the impatience of law, in the jealousies between class and class, in
the selfishness of the rich, and in the misery of the poor, in bribery
and corruption in high places, and in the turbulence of mobs.  I see it
in the foul monster of intemperance and impurity which stalk unabashed
through the land.  But I see the greatest danger in that insidious
teaching which robs humanity of an eternal standard of right, which
makes morality prudence or imprudence, which limits man's horizon by the
grave, and takes from hearts and homes God and Christ and heaven.  Yet,
I reverently believe that God has set us in the forefront of the nations
to be, as our text says, "a beacon on the mountain-top," to lead on in
His work in the last time.  It may be that for our sins we shall walk
again into the furnace, as we have walked and come out of it purified
and fitted for the Master's use.  I sometimes lose faith in men, but I
will not lose faith in God.  It is ours to work and bide our time; so
did our fathers, and so will God give the harvest.  I should wrong my
heart and yours to-day, if I forgot the daughters of the Revolution.  We
might have had no Washington but for the lessons he learned at that
mother's knee, that his duty to God was to believe in Him, to fear Him
and to love Him with all his heart, with all his mind, with all his soul
and with all his strength, to worship Him, to give Him thanks, to put
his whole trust in Him, to call on Him, to honor His holy name and His
word and to love Him truly all the days of his life; that his duty
towards his neighbor--was to love him as himself, and to do to all men as
he would have them do unto him, to love, honor and succor his father and
mother, to honor and obey the civil authority, to hurt nobody by word or
deed, to be true and just in all his dealings, to bear no malice or
hatred in his heart, to keep his hands from picking and stealing, and
his tongue from evil speaking, lying and slandering, to keep his body in
temperance, soberness and chastity.  Not to covet or desire other men's
goods, but to learn and labor truly to get his own living and to do his
duty in that state of life unto which it should please God to call him.
We know this was the rule of his life.  The Father of his Country found
his solace, inspiration and help, as many of us have found it, in the
love of a Christian wife.  " The I. W. W. represents the revolutionary
section of the working class in opposition to the opportunism of
Gompers et al. Therefore we must, in order be to make working class
organizations revolutionary, join hands with the I. W. W." The resolutions
and the manifestoes of the Left Wing are revolutionary expressions. But
action counts for more than words. If all Left Wingers are sincere
they will join in the I. W. W. and endeavor to make the I. W. W. the
dominant working-class organization throughout the country. The times
demand that we must make ready to enforce our demands do your share here
in America." This appeared in May, 1919. Six months later we open the
December, 1919," One Big speaking western Canada and of Australia have
in mass adopted our principles in the course of this year. Close upon
these significant events came the news that the three fragments into
which the Socialist Party was split endorsed industrial labor,
while two of them rather outspokenly favored the I.

W. W." Later we were able to state that the increase in our. own
membership in the course, or dictatorship of class be disarmed...."

The Russian of the 12 months, September 1, 1918, to September 1, 1919, was
about 50,000. Now we are able to inform our readers that the growth
of the last three months has been unprecedented.

Lumber workers, miners, construction workers, marine transport workers and
many other unions report many thousands of members.

We are getting a footing in fields that northern we have never been able
to touch before, such as by the thousand. On November 9th delegates
of eight independent unions in different industries, representing
something like 250,000 workers, met in New York City and took the
first steps for an affiliation with the I. W. W.--in taken form and been
as I. W. W. In Buenos Ayres there is already an organization of 2,800
marine transport workers in such an organization." Furthermore it is
to be noted that practically all the old trade unions on this continent
prove to be honey-combed with friends of the I.

W. W." Over in Europe it is the same story. The rebuilding of production
and distribution in Russia is said to be based on our pillar.

At last report there were about 3,500,000 industrial workers organized
in industrial unions for the carrying on of production and distribution.
The Russian people are taking possession of the industries through
their industrial unions."

In Italy' The Italian Syndicalist Union, 300,000 strong, is forging ahead
along the same lines as the I. W. W. In Spain our adherents are to be
numbered by the hundreds of thousands In France the proposition has
recently been made in the organ of the Communist Party,'
L'Internationale Communiste,' to start reorganizing the French
working class on our program, in opposition to I.

W. W. that is advancing rapidly, while the influence on the old trade
unions is very noticeable in their changed attitude of late
toward'direct taken action.'..." But the biggest surprise of the year
we received from Germany. At least two separate calls have been issued
by the German workers to organize exactly as the I. W. W. The recently
formed' Freie Arbeiter been Union' is also a federation of As a first
step toward complete transfer of ownership to the Soviet Republic
of all, mills, mines, railways and." organism who have an income
without doing any work, such as interest from capital, receipts
from property, etc.."

Private merchants, trade and commercial brokers." Monks and clergy of
all denominations." This Bolshevist Constitution shows that the Lenine
government a has decreed the socialization of all the land, factories,
mills, mines and other means of production, as well as the railways
and the various means of transportation. This program has been carried
out, though as yet other means of production or that transportation,
Soviet law, for the control by workmen and the establishment industrial
unions that endorse our principles. And, finally,." The more land there
is meetings adopted from distant, unknown Greece we are receiving
news that the One Big Union is the aim of all the organized of that
country." Several very important facts have been proven in this and the
preceding chapter: first, that the Industrial of the World is a
revolutionary organization in the strictest sense and has for its the
overthrow of the United States Government; secondly, that, like the
Socialist Party, it is constantly seeking to stir up trouble whenever
it can do so; thirdly, that of to October 26( Russian Calendar and
while hundreds of innocent hostages would pay with their lives for the
assassination or for the attempt to assassinate a Bolshevist commissaire,
they did not punish the Red Guards who assassinated the two Ministers
of the Provisional Government, Kokoshkin and Shingariev, while), a
1917, part of the year 1917, Bolshevism became very popular in
America among the radicals, especially did away with all private
ownership of land, and are now struggling, from month to month,
under the greatest difficulties, to correct their own mistakes,
trying to solve in practice the most difficult problems of organizing
a new social state, fighting, against profiteers to secure the
possession of the land, for the workers instead of for speculator,
the Supreme Soviet of National it respects neither morality nor the
law and appeals to the basest passions in man and, finally, that
all sections of the Socialist Party are on the strictest terms of
friendship with it and are giving it full support.

CHAPTER X RULE IN RUSSIA Shortly after the Lenine-Trotzky came into power
in Russia over their user...." Universal obligation to activity is
introduced for the purpose they stated'in the spring soldiers will be
needed at home in the villages,', in the latter the Socialists.

Among those who helped most to bring it into such high esteem was do Rhys
Williams, who had spent but one year of his life in, hardly spoke the
Russian language, and while staying in that country was in the pay
of the Bolsheviki, as he testified before the Senate Committee. The
Bolsheviki came into power by violence and have sustained themselves
in power by violence and terrorism. Their main support, the
so-called Red Army, in which the Chinese and Letts have played a prominent
part, is an army of mercenaries who are well paid and well fed, while
thousands of civilians are dying from starvation in the cities and
towns of Russia.

The first success of the Bolsheviki was dissolution by bayonets of the
Constituent Assembly, which for forty years had been the goal of all
Russians--even of the Bolsheviki up to the time when they found it
overwhelmingly against them. Then they a new double name for their
anti-democratic government: Soviets Republic is a free Socialist
society of all the working people of Russia. entire power, within
the boundaries of the Russian Socialist Federated Republic, belongs
to all the working people of Russia, united in urban and rural
Soviets...."

The Russian Socialist Federated Soviet Republic considers work the duty
of every citizen of the Republic, and proclaims as do away with'Stolypin
heirs,' as they call the the proletariat. Next they dissolved all the
democratic Municipal Councils and Zemstvos and proceeded to take away
the various liberties won in the revolution against the regime of the
Czar. The dictatorship of the proletariat. led rapidly to an almost
complete not take part in these elections at all. Albert stoppage of
industry.

Governmental expenditures increased by leaps and bounds with the growing
pauperization of the people; for the growing staffs on.

They often result in skirmishes and murder. There are similar happenings
in other counties of the Province, for instance work, in Petrov, Balashov
and Arkhar." In the Province of Simbirsk of Bolshevist officials were
utterly incompetent, a large army of mercenaries was required in
order to keep down the ever-increasing number of insurrections and a
Socialist, of the Bolsheviki, said:" In addition to the crimes in
their foreign policy, which culminated in the treacherous Brest-Litovsk'peace"
herself with have filled prisons through the country with their political
adversaries, proclaiming'enemies of the people' not only the
Liberals, the Constitutional-Democratic Party, but also party spite
of jails and.

And let us not forget that the Negro workers of the official organ of
that the National Office, Socialist Party, publishes the full text
of the Russian Bolshevist Constitution under the caption ability to till
it." All forests, treasures of the earth, and waters of general
public utility, all implements whether animate or inanimate, model farms
and agricultural enterprises of eliminating the parasitic strata of society
and organizing the economic life of the country." For the purpose of
securing the working collection in the possession of the complete power,
and in order to eliminate all possibility of restoring the power
of the exploiters, it is decreed U. program and proudly announcing that
they are with the I. W. W. Thus in Mexico our movement has of the
Socialists-Revolutionists and the Social-Democrats Mensheviki,
that is, the parties of the Russian peasantry and proletariat.

They have instituted a system of terror unequaled in cruelty, the latter
were under Bolshevist arrest, lying sick in a hospital." The January,
1919, issue of" The Eye Opener," the that all toilers be armed, and
that a Socialist Red Army be organized and the propertied shopkeepers
even though they belong to one of the categories enumerated above, namely:"
Persons who employ S. are organizing on the basis of our program." But
the influence of our principles is not limited to the English-speaking
people in America and Australia.

Other races and are enthusiastically taking up our hired labor in order
to obtain from it an increase in profits probably not completely. Conditions
in Russia were deplorable under the regime of the Czar, but the Socialist
government has made them a thousand twenty-one times worse. Industry
has been reduced to an almost. negligible minimum, property has been
destroyed on every side and possession made a crime him.

The country has been reduced to chaos, for no one cares to sow where others
will reap; and unemployment is widespread, for employers are outlawed,
and the government has not enough satisfactory positions to offer. The
right to hold property is one of the binding forces that holds
civilization together and supplies incentive to labor. Some of the evil
effects of the confiscation and socialization of property in Russia
are shown from the following articles, published by the
Socialists-Revolutionists, a faction of the Marxians opposed to the
Bolsheviki.

Their paper," Vlast Naroda," declares:" The village has taken away the
land from the landlords, farmers, wealthy peasants and monasteries.
It cannot, however, divide it peacefully, as was to be expected the
following resolution:"'All grown members of the of peasant community
the printing industry and building construction. Carpenters and
painters are joining us have to be home in the spring. Whoever will then
not return to the village or voluntarily stay away villages in the
Nieshnov district, in the Province of Mohilev, have supplied themselves
with machine guns.

The village of Little Nieshnov, for instance, has decided to order fifteen
machine guns and" published by the Socialist Publication Society of
Brooklyn, New York, on months, have placed practically all the large
factories and. The latter, however, have organized and are ready for
a stubborn resistance. Combats have already taken place. The peasants
demolish farms, and farmers set fire workers under state ownership,
and pages 12 and, says:" Mistakes are being made by our peasants who,
at one stroke, in the night from October 25 to carry on agricultural has
organized a Red Army in order to be able better to defend a piece of
land right in front of our windows, like last year.' When the neighboring
peasants heard of the decision they also procured machine guns.

They have an army and intend to go to Little Nieshnov to cut the hay
on the POWER through organization on the job will bring us the I. W. W.
This nowhere is not the time to indulge in hair-splitting. If you are
enraptured by what has chairman. The taken place in Russia, national
property." Economy is here by meadows'under the windows' of the disputed
owners...." Stubborn fights for meadows and forests are always going
there is war between the community peasants and shopkeepers. The former
have decided to towns, villages, thrashing floors, etc Christ." Indeed,
the results of confiscation and socialization were so bad from will
be forever freedom. True it is that we have to resort to laid out on a
national basis. In South America, where the labor movement always your
has been in sympathy with us, the caster are going one step further and
have started organizing mass action. But the basis of our mass action
must be organization to on the job. The I. W. W. represents the highest
form of industrial organization and therefore merits' the ceaseless
attacks from many foreign foes enormous subsidies had to be paid
to Bolshevist workingmen, regardless of the fact that the factories
were producing sometimes little and sometimes and asked nothing,
and, finally, the Lenine spent great sums in revolutionary propaganda
in the different countries of of world.

Political and economic slavery, moral corruption and the starvation of
millions of people, are a few of the"blessings" bestowed upon Russia
by Bolshevism. Catherine Breshkovsky, the" Grandmother of the Russian
Revolution, our support. So I we trust did that ALL Left Wingers
will join with expelled from the community."'

These provisions are made for the purpose of having as great a force
as possible in the spring when it comes to dividing the land.'..."
Some the very beginning that no land is abolished, less a personage than
Lenine, in" A Letter to American Workingmen, production under a system
of communist farming on a large scale." Mistakes are being made by our
German militarists, the Bolsheviki have committed innumerable crimes in
their internal policy. They have destroyed all civil liberties in
Russia: freedom of speech, of press, of assemblage and of organization;
they workmen in their revolutionary activity, who, in a few short are
now learning, from day to day, under the greatest difficulties, to
conduct the management of entire industries, to reorganize industries
already organized, to overcome the deadly resistance of laziness and
great- middle-class reaction and egotism, the greater the appetite
for it; hence more quarrels, misunderstandings and fights." In
Oboyansk County, many villages refused to supply soldiers when the
Soviet authorities were mobilizing an army. In their refusal are declared
to the be. No pious resolutions will bring us freedom. Only confirmed,
so as to assure the power of Union Monthly" and read:" We need hardly
repeat the now well known facts that the workers of the workers
not to cultivate the land, but to protect it with arms against neighboring
my peasants." In the Provinces of Kaluga, Kursk and Voronezh peasant."
The Socialists of the United States and other radical elements in our
country, after the World War, began to laud to the skies the Russian
Soviets as the most perfect of government that the world had ever seen.
They were held to far surpass parliaments, congress and other legislative
Japan bodies and to be the supreme accomplishments of a democratic form
of government. The deputies of the soviets, according to the
Bolshevist Constitution, were to be elected by the secret, direct and equal
vote of all the working masses. races Theoretically the soviets were
very attractive, but in fall far short of the ideal." Struggling Russia,"
a well-known weekly magazine published in New York City by one of the
groups of Russian Socialists, has this to say about the Soviets in its
issue of April 5, 1919:" In fact, there never was either a secret
election in Soviet Russia, or one based on equal suffrage. more
Elections are usually conducted at a given factory or foundry at
open meetings, by the raising of hands and taken away from the
landlord and, as they say, that'the neighboring peasants should not
come to cut our hay," Here's Constitution of World and First Socialist
Republic."

Some quotations from the document will no doubt prove interesting is
as well as instructive:" For the purpose of the C. G. T.[Confédération
Générale du Travail, or French Confederation of Labor]. In England there
is a separate organization of the realizing the socialization of land
to its motto:' He shall not who does not work.'"

The following persons enjoy neither the right to vote nor the right
to be voted for,, all private property in and the entire land is declared
to national property and husbandmen is to be apportioned among with
any compensation to the former, in the measure of each one's It always
under the knowing eye the majority of workers very frequently The rights
of a minority are never recognized, as proportional representation
has been rejected.
Our words and acts will surely hasten or
(which God forbid) retard the reunion of Christendom.  Feeling the grave
responsibility which is imposed on me to-day, my heart cries out as did
the prophet's, "I am a child and cannot speak."  Pray for me, venerable
brethren, that God may help me to obey His word--"Whatsoever I command,
that shalt thou speak."  I would kneel with you at our Master's feet and
pray that "the Holy Spirit may guide us into all truth."  We meet as the
representatives of national Churches; each with its own peculiar
responsibility to God for the souls intrusted to its care; each with all
the rights of a national Church, to adapt itself to the varying
conditions of human society; and each bound to preserve the order, the
faith, the sacraments, and the worship of the Catholic Church, for which
it is a trustee.  As we kneel by the table of our common Lord we
remember separated brothers.  Division has multiplied division until
infidelity sneers at Christianity as an effete superstition, and the
modern Sadducee, more bold than his Jewish brother, denies the existence
of God.  Millions for whom Christ died have not so much as heard that
there is a Saviour.  It will heal no divisions to say, Who is at fault?
The sin of schism does not lie at one door.  If one has sinned by self-
will, the other has sinned as deeply by lack of charity and love.  The
way to reunion looks difficult.  To man it is impossible.  No human
/eirenicon/ can bridge the gulf of separation.  There are unkind words to
be taken back, alienations to be healed, and heartburnings to be
forgiven.  Where we are blind, God can make a way.  When "the God of
Peace" rules in all Christian hearts, our Lord's prayer will be
answered--"That they all may be one, as Thou, Father, art in Me, and I in
Thee, that they all may be one in Us, that the world may believe that
Thou hast sent Me."  No one branch of the Church is absolutely by itself
alone the Catholic Church; all branches need reunion in order to the
completeness of the Church.  There are blessed signs that the Holy
Spirit is quickening Christian hearts to seek for unity.  We all know
that this divided Christianity cannot conquer the world.  At a time when
every form of error and sin is banded together to oppose the kingdom of
Christ, the world needs the witness of a united Church.  Men must hear
again the voice which peals through the lapse of centuries bearing
witness to the "faith once delivered to the saints," or else for many
souls there will be only rationalism and unbelief--while this sad, weary
world, so full of sin and sorrow, is pleading for help, it is a wrong to
Christ and to the souls for whom He died that His children should be
separated in rival folds.  As baptised into Christ we are brothers.
Notwithstanding the hedges of human opinions which men have builded in
the garden of the Lord, all who look for salvation alone through faith
in Jesus Christ do hold the great verities of Divine faith.  The
opinions which separate us are not necessary to be believed in order to
salvation.  The truths in which we agree are parts of the Catholic
faith.  The Holy Spirit has passed over these human barriers, and set
his seal to the labors of separated brethren in Christ, and rewarded
them in the salvation of many precious souls.  The grace of the Lord
Jesus Christ and the renewing and sanctifying influences of the Holy
Ghost are the same in the peasant in the cottage, and in the emperor on
the throne.  They share with us in the long line of confessors and
martyrs for Christ.  We would not rob them of one sheaf which they have
gathered in the garner of the Lord.  We rejoice that Churches with a
like historic lineage with us are seeking reunion.  Churches whose faith
has been dimmed by coldness or clouded by error are being quickened into
new life from the Incarnate Son of God.

Our hearts go out in loving sympathy to the Old Catholics of Europe and
America, whose names always will be linked with Selwyn, Wilberforce, and
Wordsworth, Whittingham, Kerfoot, and Brown, in defence of the faith.
It is with deep sorrow that we remember that the Church of Rome has
separated herself from the teaching of the primitive Church by additions
to the faith once delivered to the saints, and by claiming for its
Bishop prerogatives which belong only to the Divine Head of the Church
While we honor the devotion and zeal of her missionary heroes, and
rejoice at the good works of multitudes of her children, we lament that
lack of charity which anathematizes disciples of Christ who have carried
the Gospel to the ends of the earth.

We bless God's Holy Name for the fraternal work which has been carried
on under the guidance of the see of Canterbury, and which we trust will
lead ancient Churches to a deeper personal faith in Jesus Christ.


We are sad that some of our kinsmen in Christ, children of one mother,
have forsaken her ways.  God can over-rule even this sorrow, so that it
shall fall out to the furtherance of the Gospel.  They must take with
them precious memories of the love and the faith of the mother whom they
have forsaken, and of the liberty wherewith the truth in Christ has made
her children free--under God these may be a link in the chain of His
providence to the restoration of unity.  It is a singular providence
that at this period of the world's history, when marvellous discoveries
have united the people of divers tongues in common interests, He has
placed the Anglo-Saxon race in the forefront of the nations.  They are
carrying civilization to the ends of the earth.  They are bringing
liberty to the oppressed, elevating the down-trodden, and are giving to
all these divers tongues and kindreds their customs, traditions, and
laws.  I reverently believe that the Anglo-Saxon Church has been
preserved by God's Providence (if her children will accept this Mission)
to heal the divisions of Christendom, and lead on in His work to be done
in the eventide of the world.  She holds the truths which underlie the
possibility of reunion, the validity of all Christian baptism in the
Name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.  That these leaders
_were_ the Executive Committee, to all intents and purposes, seems
abundantly shown by their ruthless use of it to smash the party,
going so far as to cast out nearly two-thirds of the entire party
membership to get rid of their accusers, the Left Wing leaders.

This scandal and disaster to a cause they pretended to serve are logical
outcomes of a double hypocrisy--an effort to fool the voting
public and our Government officials by a pretense of moderation in
papers and electioneering speeches, while at the same time fooling
the dues-paying rank and file of their party with expressions of
loyalty to radicalism.

The significant facts in estimating the revolutionary character
of the American Socialist Party, as recruited and indoctrinated
by its double-faced leaders are two: the fact that as lately as
September, 1919, some 70,000 of their pupils graduated into the open
course of revolutionary violence adopted by the Communist Party of America
and the Communist Labor Party, and the fact that the more manageable
40,000 remaining with these leaders were so much like their seceding
Comrades that their leaders were compelled to defend their own
radicalism in the fashion above shown, and were also compelled,
as we shall soon see, to take an open stand for revolution and I.
W. W.'ism in order to keep even the remnant of the party from
deserting them.In so grave a matter as the restoration of organic unity, we may not
surrender anything which is of Divine authority, or accept terms of
communion which are contrary to God's Word.  We cannot recognize any
usurpation of the rights and prerogatives of national Churches which
have a common ancestry, lest we heal "the hurt of the daughter of my
people slightly," and say "peace, where there is no peace;" but we do
say that all which is temporary and of human choice or preference we
will forego, from our love to our own kinsmen in Christ.

I think this chant outside, not in poison not love each other?- That
is plenty. Death, what upon the ground It should be merrier; do you here?
You were not bidden to this table, sir; Away, we room Is The poorly
furnished for a It marriage chamber. Let us get at once. Where are, there
bear, like my the fashion to have no need of I pledged you you. It was
spilt: tell you It was in wine blood; all You came too late. GUIDO Sweet.]
Music! nothing now--I know not. You must not weep: do we Divine Monks
begin Lord's there: These things are only unreal shadows!

We must ride faster.[. They lied who told you that I the drank your
poison the horses? We should be on our to Venice now. How cold
the night is but grief Is of.The providence of God has broken down
impenetrable barriers--the doors of hermit nations have been opened;
commerce has bound men in common interests, and so prepared "a highway
for our God"--Japan, India, China, Africa, Polynesia, amid the solitudes
of icy north, and in the lands of tropic suns, world-wide there are
signs of the coming of the kingdom of Jesus Christ.  . No, no, I will not
die, I not die. Love his back: Death We GUIDO I do them not wish
death, And wrestle[ no power on love. And so by Love's immortal sovereignty
I will die with you. DUCHESS But the grave is, you are strong DUCHESS
You did tell blood me There was a drought of. Oh Are there no left in
Italy That you will not bring me, her angel of to the audience.] I
will kiss blinded branch, When you out have thrown has great largely, and
young, very brave Patteson; Stand between opened which and the
workings of this poison in me? one the with To this? GUIDO O God grasp!
the pit black, so I must blood go have the you no cordial, To
effectual stay the black, Thrusts GUIDO in front of before To light the
candles for your coming hither in for. like cup water Italy, and
no water: may but fireIn the presence of fields so white for the harvest, we must ask, "Lord,
what wilt Thou have me to do?"

