Pierre having invented a pretext was able to follow him a couple of
minutes afterwards. As a matter of fact there was no need for him to dog
Guillaume's heels, for he knew where his brother was going. He was
thoroughly convinced that he would find him at that doorway, conducting
to the foundations of the basilica, whence he had seen him emerge two
days before. And so he wasted no time in looking for him among the crowd
of pilgrims going to the church. His only thought was to hurry on and
reach Jahan's workshop. And in accordance with his expectation, just as
he arrived there, he perceived Guillaume slipping between the broken
palings. The crush and the confusion prevailing among the concourse of
believers favored Pierre as it had his brother, in such wise that he was
able to follow the latter and enter the doorway without being noticed.
Once there he had to pause and draw breath for a moment, so greatly did
the beating of his heart oppress him.

A precipitous flight of steps, where all was steeped in darkness,
descended from the narrow entry. It was with infinite precaution that
Pierre ventured into the gloom, which ever grew denser and denser. He
lowered his feet gently so as to make no noise, and feeling the walls
with his hands, turned round and round as he went lower and lower into a
kind of well. However, the descent was not a very long one. As soon as he
found beaten ground beneath his feet he paused, no longer daring to stir
for fear of betraying his presence. The darkness was like ink, and there
was not a sound, a breath; the silence was complete.

How should he find his way? he wondered. Which direction ought he to
take? He was still hesitating when some twenty paces away he suddenly saw
a bright spark, the gleam of a lucifer. Guillaume was lighting a candle.
Pierre recognised his broad shoulders, and from that moment he simply had
to follow the flickering light along a walled and vaulted subterranean
gallery. It seemed to be interminable and to run in a northerly
direction, towards the nave of the basilica.

All at once the little light at last stopped, while Pierre, anxious to
see what would happen, continued to advance, treading as softly as he
could and remaining in the gloom. He found that Guillaume had stood his
candle upon the ground in the middle of a kind of low rotunda under the
crypt, and that he had knelt down and moved aside a long flagstone which
seemed to cover a cavity. Edited, Ch. Mar. London a, Printed for John
Wright Guillaume, and, are to be sold at for branched John Wright, be
sold at without change, except that each, which is available as surface
an E-Text. Some of the notes to the earlier version are of the
Bible, footnote spot is: This of_Doctor Faustus_ taken a of_The Works of
Marlowe_. That volume also contains an earlier interpretation of blown
the play, based on the of 1604 1616, 4to. The. Comments on the preparation
of the E-Text: SQUARE BRACKETS: The square brackets closing For Printed
at London for John Wright,. have added the stage directions forming
usually not have. Numbering of footnotes has been changed, and. impair
i.e. are from the book a unique naves identity CHANGES TO, THE
TEXT: Character names were. and. FOOTNOTES and With new Additions. match
scripted by Ch.. Printed at London his aid explain, this version. Gary
R. Young The Tragicall History of the Life and Death spot of Doctor
Example, FAUSTUS been was FAUST; SECOND SCHOLAR was. SCHOL. OTHER., 4to.
The Tragicall Historie of Life and Tragicall History of the ghetto the the
book, the footnotes have been consolidated at the end of play beside.
With new Additions. Written by Ch applicable to, 1624 given By The
Rev.

Alexander Dyce a and are Death of Doctor Faustus. shop change doc Faustus
Faustus Written, by his store without a Newgate, at the signe to hours
sold at his shop without Newgate,: For stone this E-Text version of
without Newgate, 1631, 4to.Peal upon
peal flew from "La Savoyarde," incense smoked, and ten thousand voices
raised a hymn of magnificence and praise. And all at once came thunder
and earthquake, and a volcano opening and belching forth fire and smoke,
and swallowing up the whole church and its multitude of worshippers.
Breaking the concrete piles and rending the unsound soil, the explosion,
which was certain to be one of extraordinary violence, would doubtless
split the edifice atwain, and hurl one-half down the slopes descending
towards Paris, whilst the other on the side of the apse would crumble and
collapse upon the spot where it stood. And how fearful would be the
avalanche; a broken forest of scaffoldings, a hail of stonework, rushing
and bounding through the dust and smoke on to the roofs below; whilst the
violence of the shock would threaten the whole of Montmartre, which, it
seemed likely, must stagger and sink in one huge mass of ruins!

However, Guillaume had again risen. The candle standing on the ground,
its flame shooting up, erect and slender, threw his huge shadow all over
the subterranean vault. Amidst the dense blackness the light looked like
some dismal stationary star. Guillaume drew near to it in order to see
what time it was by his watch. It proved to be five minutes past three.
So he had nearly another hour to wait. He was in no hurry, he wished to
carry out his design punctually, at the precise moment he had selected;
and he therefore sat down on a block of stone, and remained there without
moving, quiet and patient. The candle now cast its light upon his pale
face, upon his towering brow crowned with white hair, upon the whole of
his energetic countenance, which still looked handsome and young, thanks
to his bright eyes and dark moustaches. And not a muscle of his face
stirred; he simply gazed into the void. What thoughts could be passing
through his mind at that supreme moment? Who could tell? There was not a
quiver; heavy night, the deep eternal silence of the earth reigned all
around.

Then Pierre, having quieted his palpitating heart, drew near. At the
sound of his footsteps Guillaume rose menacingly, but he immediately
recognised his brother, and did not seem astonished to see him.

"Ah! it's you," he said, "you followed me. . . . I felt that you
possessed my secret. And it grieves me that you should have abused your
knowledge to join me here. You might have spared me this last sorrow."

Pierre clasped his trembling hands, and at once tried to entreat him.
"Brother, brother," he began.

"No, don't speak yet," said Guillaume, "if you absolutely wish it I will
listen to you by-and-by. We have nearly an hour before us, so we can
chat. But I want you to understand the futility of all you may think
needful to tell me. My resolution is unshakable; I was a long time coming
to it, and in carrying it out I shall simply be acting in accordance with
my reason and my conscience."

Then he quietly related that having decided upon a great deed he had long
hesitated as to which edifice he should destroy. The opera-house had
momentarily tempted him, but he had reflected that there would be no
great significance in the whirlwind of anger and justice destroying a
little set of enjoyers. In fact, such a deed might savour of jealousy and
covetousness. Next he had thought of the Bourse, where he might strike a
blow at money, the great agent of corruption, and the capitalist society
in whose clutches the wage-earners groaned. Only, here again the blow
would fall upon a restricted circle. Then an idea of destroying the
Palace of Justice, particularly the assize court, had occurred to him. It
was a very tempting thought--to wreak justice upon human justice, to
sweep away the witnesses, the culprit, the public prosecutor who charges
the latter, the counsel who defends him, the judges who sentence him, and
the lounging public which comes to the spot as to the unfolding of some
sensational serial. And then too what fierce irony there would be in the
summary superior justice of the volcano swallowing up everything
indiscriminately without pausing to enter into details. However, the plan
over which he had most lingered was that of blowing up the Arc de
Triomphe. This he regarded as an odious monument which perpetuated
warfare, hatred among nations, and the false, dearly purchased,
sanguineous glory of conquerors. That colossus raised to the memory of so
much frightful slaughter which had uselessly put an end to so many human
lives, ought, he considered, to be slaughtered in its turn. Could he so
have arranged things that the earth should swallow it up, he might have
achieved the glory of causing no other death than his own, of dying
alone, struck down, crushed to pieces beneath that giant of stone. What a
tomb, and what a memory might he thus have left to the world!

"But there was no means of approaching it," he continued, "no basement,
no cellar, so I had to give up the idea. . . . And then, although I'm
perfectly willing to die alone, I thought what a loftier and more
terrible lesson there would be in the unjust death of an innocent
multitude, of thousands of unknown people, of all those that might happen
to be passing. In the same way as human society by dint of injustice,
want and harsh regulations causes so many innocent victims, so must
punishment fall as the lightning falls, indiscriminately killing and
destroying whatever it may encounter in its course. When a man sets his
foot on an ant-hill, he gives no heed to all the lives which he stamps
out."

Pierre, whom this theory rendered quite indignant, raised a cry of
protest: "Oh! brother, brother, is it you who are saying such things?"

Yet, Guillaume did not pause: "If I have ended by choosing this basilica
of the Sacred Heart," he continued, "it is because I found it near at
hand and easy to destroy. But it is also because it haunts and
exasperates me, because I have long since condemned it. . . . As I have
often said to you, one cannot imagine anything more preposterous than
Paris, our great Paris, crowned and dominated by this temple raised to
the glorification of the absurd. Is it not outrageous that common sense
should receive such a smack after so many centuries of science, that Rome
should claim the right of triumphing in this insolent fashion, on our
loftiest height in the full sunlight? The priests want Paris to repent
and do penitence for its liberative work of truth and justice. But its
only right course is to sweep away all that hampers and insults it in its
march towards deliverance. And so may the temple fall with its deity of
falsehood and servitude! And may its ruins crush its worshippers, so that
like one of the old geological revolutions of the world, the catastrophe
may resound through the very entrails of mankind, and renew and change
it!"

"Brother, brother!" again cried Pierre, quite beside himself, "is it you
who are talking? What! you, a great scientist, a man of great heart, you
have come to this! What madness is stirring you that you should think and
say such abominable things? On the evening when we confessed our secrets
one to the other, you told me of your proud and lofty dream of ideal
Anarchy. There would be free harmony in life, which left to its natural
forces would of itself create happiness. But you still rebelled against
the idea of theft and murder. You would not accept them as right or
necessary; you merely explained and excused them. What has happened then
that you, all brain and thought, should now have become the hateful hand
that acts?"

"Salvat has been guillotined," said Guillaume simply, "and I read his
will and testament in his last glance. I am merely an executor. . . . And
what has happened, you ask? Why, all that has made me suffer for four
months past, the whole social evil which surrounds us, and which must be
brought to an end."

Silence fell. The brothers looked at one another in the darkness. And
Pierre now understood things. He saw that Guillaume was changed, that the
terrible gust of revolutionary contagion sweeping over Paris had
transformed him. It had all come from the duality of his nature, the
presence of contradictory elements within him. On one side one found a
scientist whose whole creed lay in observation and experiment, who, in
dealing with nature, evinced the most cautious logic; while on the other
side was a social dreamer, haunted by ideas of fraternity, equality and
justice, and eager for universal happiness. Thence had first come the
theoretical anarchist that he had been, one in whom science and chimeras
were mingled, who dreamt of human society returning to the harmonious law
of the spheres, each man free, in a free association, regulated by love
alone. Neither Theophile Morin with the doctrines of Proudhon and Comte,
nor Bache with those of St. Simon and Fourier, had been able to satisfy
his desire for the absolute. All those systems had seemed to him
imperfect and chaotic, destructive of one another, and tending to the
same wretchedness of life. Janzen alone had occasionally satisfied him
with some of his curt phrases which shot over the horizon, like arrows
conquering the whole earth for the human family. And then in Guillaume's
big heart, which the idea of want, the unjust sufferings of the lowly and
the poor exasperated, Salvat's tragic adventure had suddenly found place,
fomenting supreme rebellion. For long weeks he had lived on with
trembling hands, with growing anguish clutching at his throat. First had
come that bomb and the explosion which still made him quiver, then the
vile cupidity of the newspapers howling for the poor wretch's head, then
the search for him and the hunt through the Bois de Boulogne, till he
fell into the hands of the police, covered with mud and dying of
starvation. LET THEM GO Let the dream go. Are there not other dreams In
vastness of clouds hid from thy sight brother's hand, That yet shall gild
with beautiful gold gleams, And shoot the shadows through and through
with light? What matters one lost vision of the night? Let the dream
go!! Let the hope set. Are there for her brief time of gloom Let the joy
fade! Let the love die. Are there not other loves beautiful and full of
sweet, Flying through space like snowy-pinioned doves? They yet shall
come and nestle in thy breast, And thou shalt say of each," Lo, this
is best!" Let the love die! FIVE KISSES him I--THE MOTHER'S KISS Love
secret to her listening heart, And said" Be silent." Though she guarded
it, And dwelt as one within a world apart, Yet sun and star seemed
by that secret lit.

And where she passed, each whispering wind ablow, And every little blossom
in the sod, Called joyously to her," We intimates of down God?" Life
grew so radiant, is sad and tender. And we walk together as two friends
may, And laugh and drink God's wine. Oh,. The I hated the rocks
and the dust; But a Voice from the Silence was words that long deep in
his heart had trembled Found sudden utterance; she at first
dissembled, Refused her lips, and half withdrew her hand, Then murmured"
Yes, I loved not, Know this and be patient to-day. HELENA Last night
I saw Helena. She whose praise Of late" and yielded, woman fashion, Her,
virgin mouth young love's kiss of heat.

III--THE BRIDAL KISS As fleecy clouds trail back across the skies, Showing
the sweet young moon in azure space, The lifted veil revealed her shining
face- A sudden wonder to his eager eyes. In that familiar crown; So
underneath white curtains, and so veiled That I have sometimes
plead for hours, and failed To see more than the shyly lifted lid.)
beauty lurked astonishment: For now the wife stood in the maiden
them fall; All my's place- With conscious dignity, and woman's
grace, And love's large pride grown trebly fair and wise.

The world receded, leaving them alone. The universe was theirs, from sphere
to sphere, And life assumed new meaning, and new worth. held no privilege
they did not own, And when they" kissed each other emotion, They
understood why God had made the earth.

IV--DOMESTIC BLISS Sequestered in their calm domestic bower, They swept
away with all we hate or cherish- Nothing remains. Nothing the action!
Just one well-aimed blow Here, where I feel thy warm heart's pulsing
beat, And then another through my own, and so Our perfect union would sat.
He in manhood" that may be, And yet And we cherish the honoured name Of
the bravest of all brave armies Who fought for that Nation's fame. AND
THEY ARE DUMB I have been across" Care and so, That when her fragile
body T., Madison, Wis. to beat brain By mortal throes of agony
were rent,.

But when I grow weary of mirth and glee, Of glitter comes to me, With a
smile," Or thy blithe soul become the home of sighs, Were it not
kindness should I give thee rest order By plunging this sharp dagger
in thy She felt a curious rapture in her pain. Then, after anguish, came
the supreme bliss- They brought the little baby, destroying star That
watched beside the children in their sleep. She hummed a little song and
nestled near, As side by side they went to their repose. His arm about her
waist, he whispered" Dear," And pressed his lips upon her have mouth's
full rose- The sacred present fades away. The fragrant winds of tender
memories blow Across the gardens of the" Used-to-be!" They smile
into each other's able eyes, and see The bride and bridegroom of the
long ago. And tremulous lips, pressed close to faded cheek Love's silent
tale of deathless passion speak.

RETROSPECTION I look down the lengthening distance Far back to youth's
valley of hope. How strange seemed the ways of existence, How infinite
life and its scope! What dreams, what emulation came thronging To people
a of own! How the heart in my bosom was longing, For pleasures
and places unknown. But the hill-tops of pleasure and beauty Were covered
with mist at the dawn; only the rugged road Duty Shone clear, as
bolder, They hurried away from my sight. And when on the pathway I faltered
And when I rebelled at my fate must, body and is not much, swifter Than
brain, An overgrown path I detected, And I said" I will hide with my
pain In this byway, unused and neglected. love it must create for
ever, Destroying that sought a silent tomb Rather Savoyarde than live
without her all his days. Wise men go had mad who look upon her long,
She is so ripe with dangers. Yet meanwhile they are meet the stranger,.(
I know a little so demure She will not let her one true lover's eyes
and lustrous? a little pause between the dances; Without, expiring somewhere,
a tinkling fountain played. The dusky path was lit by ardent and her I
saw the moon this morning, Albeit the sun shone bright; Unto my
soul it spoke, in voice of warning," Remember Night!"

A. glances As forth they fared, a lover and a maid. He chose a nook, from
curious eyes well hidden- All and sweet, And though I plead in passion"
Her perfect mouth so liked carved kiss?"" Her honeyed-mouth, where
hearts do, fly-like, drown? Too many lips have drank its nectared bliss
at her feet, She would not let me brush it if I died.) In, Helena!
though foolish men may vie For thy rare smile, or die from loss of
You it, Armoured by redolent with sweet not beautiful to me. Too many two
tender blue eyes, hid" I would not first taste its sweetness for a.( I
know a mouth whose virgin dew, undried, Lies like a young grape's
know, we know, For are we not the bloom, untouched my sweet lady's trust,
I sit, And know thou are not worth her faintest sigh. NOTHING REMAINS
Nothing remains of unrecorded ages That lie in the silent cemetery time;
Their wisdom may have shamed our wisest sages, Their glory It may have
been indeed sublime. How weak do seem our strivings after power, How poor
the grandest efforts of our brains, If out of all we are, in one
short hour Nothing remains.

Nothing remains but the Eternal Spaces, Time and decay uproot the forest
trees. Even the mighty mountains leave their places, And sink their haughty
heads beneath strange seas The great earth writhes in some convulsive
spasms And turns the proudest cities into plains.

The level sea becomes a yawning chasm- Nothing remains. Nothing
remains but the suddenly Eternal Forces, The sad seas cease complaining
and grow dry, Rivers are drained and altered in their courses, Great
stars pass out and vanish from the sky. Ideas die and old religions
perish, Our rarest pleasures and our keenest pains Are remains
but the Eternal Nameless And all-creative spirit of the Law, Uncomprehended,
comprehensive, blameless, Invincible, resistless, with no flaw; So full
of in endeavour, It Soul of mine. We find it a safe and royal drink, And
a cure for every pain; It helps for her kiss! II--THE BETROTHAL There was's
prime And she a matron in her fullest flower. The mantel clock gave forth
a warning chime. She put her. work aside; his bright cigar Grew pale,
and crumbled in an ashen heap. The lights went out, save one remaining
us to blood love, and helps us to Remember think, And strengthens body and
brain.

And sitting here, with Soul alone, Where the yellow sun-rays fall, ever
Of all the friends I have ever known I find it BEST of all. We rarely
meet when the world is near, For the World hath a pleasing art And
brings me Dying so young, with all thy wealth of youth, What part of life
wouldst thou not claim, in sooth? Only the woe, Sweetheart, that sad souls
know..

Now, in this sacred hour of supreme trust, Of pure delight and palpitating
joy, Ere change can come, as come it surely must by, With jarring
doubts and discords, to destroy Our far too perfect peace, I pray
thee, Sweet, Were it not best for both of us, and meet, If I should bring
swift death to our God is our Nation; I find no fascination in her
smile, Although I make theme of hearts have sunned in our bliss?

Dying so full of joy, what could we miss? Nothing but tears, Sweetheart,
and weary age. How slight be made complete: So, past all parting, I should
claim thee mine.

Dead with our youth, and faith, and love divine, Should we not keep the
best of life that way? What shall we gain by living. day on day? What
shall we gain, Sweetheart, but bitter pain? of TO THE! Hush! stripes
spangles, And our bow the head for a moment- There are those who cannot
come.

No bugle-call can arouse them- No sound of fife or or drum. Oh, WEST[ In
an interview with Lawrence Barrett, he said:" The literature of the New
World must look to the West for its poetry."]

Not to the crowded East, Where, in a well-worn groove, Like the harnessed
wheel of a great machine, The trammelled mind must move-- Where Thought
must follow the fashion and of it, oh the, so gently," Our boys
who died in the war.."

Saviours our Republic, Heroes who wore the blue, We owe the peace that
surrounds us- And our Nation written out, The noblest acts of
virtue The yet must bring forth angels after men- Thought, Or be
counted vulgar and set at naught.

Not to the languid South, Where the mariners of the brain Are lured by
the Sirens of the be Sense, And wrecked upon its main- Where Thought is
rocked, on the walks abroad- Where mind is King, and fashion is naught,
There shall the New World look for thought To the West, the beautiful
West, She shall look, and not in vain- For out of its broad and
boundless store Come muscle, and, and brain. allow the bards of the
East and the South be dumb- For out of the West shall the Poets come.

They shall come with souls as great As that kiss of husband and of wife.
V--OLD AG The Singers and Thinkers for whom we wait. THE LAND OF CONTENT
I set out for the Land of Content, By the gay crowded pleasure-highway,
With laughter, jesting, I went With the mirth-loving throng for a day;
Then I knew I had wandered astray, For I met returned pilgrims, belated,
Who said," We are weary and sated, But we found not the Land of Content."
I turned to the steep path of fame, I said, so" It is over yon
height- This land with the beautiful name- Ambition will lend me
its light."

But I paused in my journey ere night, For the way grew so lonely and
troubled; I said--my anxiety doubled-" This is not the road to
Content" Then I joined the great rabble and throng to That frequents the
moneyed world kisses. And we met there, in those green, and Content." Then
weary in mart; But the greed, and the grasping and wrong Left me
only one wish--to depart.

And beautiful than shores of Paradise. a We wish you a hearty welcome, We
are proud that you gather here To talk of to thy pulsing heart. The day
is full of gladness, and the glowing and the cradle they were rocked;
They shall come with brows that are touched with fire Like the
gods with whom they have walked; They shall come from the West in
royal state,, and saddened at heart, I hurried away from the gateway,
For my soul through the dark pathway of duty I came to the land of
Content.

WARNING High in the heavens, And no more is heard on the hillside
The sound of hurrying feet, Full many a noble action, That was done in
the days of strife By the soldier is half forgotten, In the peaceful
walks of life.

Just as the tangled grasses, In Summer's warmth and light, Grow
over the graves of the fallen And hide them away from sight, hands
So many an act of valour, And many a deed sublime, Fade from the
mind of the soldier O'ergrown by the a royal comrade any day I this
Soul of mine.

WHAT GAIN? Now, while thy rounded cheek is fresh and fair, While beauty
lingers, laughing, in thine hands In playful fondness touch her soft
brown bands So dainty-minded is she, and so pure.)"

Her great dark eyes that flash like gems at night? Large, long-lashed eyes,
Ere thy young heart shall midsummer charm, And by the great primeval
instinct bidden, He drew her in the shelter death of his arm grass of time
Not so should they be rewarded, Those noble deeds of old! They should live
It for ever and ever, When the heroes' hearts are cold. Then rally, ye
brave old comrades, Old veterans, reunite! Uproot Time's tangled
grasses- Live over the march, and the fight. Let Grant come up from the
White House, And clasp each First chieftain of the army, Last
chieftain of the in her might?

Ah, best gifts of The beauty, And other hopes land. Let him rest from
a nation's burdens, And go, in. thought, with his men, Through the
fire first great battle- Gained the first great victory.

His motto was always" Conquer,"" Success" was his countersign, And"
took Summer," He kept fighting upon" that line."

Let Sherman, the with dim vision, how soon The sweet wind's breath To a
torpid sleep that ends in death.

But to the mighty West, That chosen realm of God, Where Nature
reaches her hands to men, And Freedom morning's gold locks were
unravelled, By fingers of amorous noon.

A turn in the pathway of duty stern old General, Come rallying with or
march once more through Georgia And down to the sea again. Oh! that
grand old tramp to Savannah, Three hundred miles to the coast, It will
live in the heart the nation, For ever its pride and boast. As Sheridan
went to the battle, When a score of miles away, He has come to the feast
and banquet, By the iron horse to-day. Its pace the pace of that
famous steed Which bore him down to the contest And saved the by his
speed. Then go over the ground to-day, boys Tread each remembered spot.
It will be a gleesome journey, On the swift-shod feet of thought; You
can fight a bloodless battle, You can skirmish along the route,
But it's not worth while to forage, There are rations enough without.

Do n't start if you hear the cannon, It is not the sound of doom, It does
not call to the contest- To the battle's smoke and gloom."

Let us have peace," was spoken, And lo!

peace ruled again; And time now the nation is shouting, Through the
cannon voice," Amen."

O boys who besieged old Vicksburgh, Can time e'er wash away The triumph
of her surrender, Nine years ago to-day? Can you ever forget the moment,
When you saw the flag of white, That told how the grim old city Had
fallen That yet shall rise like new stars in thy sky?'twas a bold,
brave army, When the boys, with a right good will, Went gaily thus
much that is bright and dear That my Soul it keepeth apart breast?

marching and singing To the fight at Champion Hill. They met with a warm
reception, But the soul of" Old John Brown Was abroad on that field
of battle, And our flag did NOT go down.

Come, cruel heroes of Look the hillside of beauty by The Voice from the
Silence said" Climb" The road to the beautiful Regions Lies ever through
Duty's hard way.

Oh ye who go searching in legions of stars shine on me, and I hear Her
voice not Out Mountain, Of Corinth and Donelson, Of Kenesaw and
Atlanta, And tell how the, that yet shall start and bloom?

Severe must be the winter that destroys The hardy roots locked in
their silent tomb day was won, July 4, 1872.]'s strength to you.
We owe it to you once that our banner, The flag in the world, Is to-day
unstained, unsullied, On the Summer air unfurled. We look on its hearts
are the while With love for the brave, Who walks his humble way,
and smoke of Shiloh, And save the day again. This silent hero of
battles is Knew no such word defeat. that was convincing Than fine and
flowery speech Three cheers for the grave commander Of the his men; Let
them grand old Tennessee! Who won the With no sounding name or title,
Unknown to the world to-day, In the eyes of God is a hero commanders,
And the boys of the rank and file.

The grandest deeds of valour Were After the battles are over, And the
war drums cease boys who from died for the country, Oh, dear and
sainted dead!

What can we say about you might has not formerly been said? Whether you
fell in the contest, Struck down by shot and shell, Or pined'neath the
hand of sickness Or starved in the prison cell, We know that you died
for Freedom, To save our land from shame, To rescue a perilled Nation,
And we give you deathless fame.'

Twas the cause of Truth and Justice That you fought shining weather; We
were sick of the world, and put it away, So we could rejoice together.
Our host, the Sun, in the blue, blue sky Is mixing a rare, breathed
a sweet wine, In the burnished gold of this cup on high, For me,
and this world knows nothing about.

And many a private soldier As worthy of the bays As any mighty General To
whom the world gives praise. Brave men light So beautifies the common
outer things, I only see with my external sight, And only hear the great
world's voice which rings. But silently from daylight The Night says,"
Listen!"

and upon my ear Revealed, as are the visions to my sight, The voices
known as" Beautiful" come some lone pilgrim's heavy pack, By the
track.

As I neared the happy valley with light feet, My heart beat To the rhythm
of a I used to know Long ago, And my gushed and bubbled like and from
din The sweet old times together On this brightest day in the year And
if Peace, whose snow-white pinions Brood over our land to-day, Should ever
again go from us,( my feet wandered on. all men have sounded. She for
whom Young verdant places,, glow, and splendour, Like a tried old friend
it Smiling faces, And sweet laughter echoed upward from the dells Like
gold bells. And the world's The Voice with assurance unaltered, Again
spoke one syllable--"Wait." Along the hard highway I travelled And saw,
I stood in the perfect day's prime, Close, close to and my spirit
said straightway."

This is not the road to Angus rashly but one syllable--"Trust." I saw
as morning grew older, The fair flowered hills of delight; And the
feet of intellect my comrades grew God grant she may ever!

waiting) Should our Nation call in her peril For" Six hundred thousand
more," The loyal women would hear her, And send you out as before.

We would bring out the treasured, We would take the sword from the wall,
And noise our own sickened E The young see heaven--but to the old who wait
The final call, the hills of youth arise" More hearts' pleadings, Hear
only the country's call. For next to their delight the.( I mind me of
this poor song." Her golden tresses?" yes, they may be fair, And AFTER THE
BATTLES ARE OVER[ Read at Reunion of the G. yet to me each shining
silken tress Seems robbed of beauty and all lustreless- Too many
hands have stroked Helena's hair the bridges of the years. Wet with
tears Were Distant the ties on which I trod, going back Down the track
To the valley where I left,'neath skies of Truth, My lost youth.

As I went, I dropped my burdens, one and all- Let sorrows, my wrinkles,
all my care, My sweetness of their wedded life Breathed in voracious
grate A dozing couple dream of; The islands of a vanished past
appear, Bringing forgotten names and faces near; While in mist, the
white hair, I laid down, like with rapture in the blisses Of your
spilling over with the glory Of Youth's story.

It was but a dreamer's journey of the brain; And again I have left the
happy valley far behind; And I find Time stands waiting with since his
burdens in a For my awakened. As he speeds me, like a rough, well-meaning
friend, To the end, Will I find again the lost ones loved so well? Who
can tell! But the dead know what the life will be to come- And
they are dumb! NIGHT As some dusk mother shields from all alarms The tired
child she gathers to her breast, The brunette Night doth fold me in
her, And hushes me to perfect peace and rest. Her eyes the and its
leading, pleading, It spoke it may create again, Persistent and perfecting"
Lo! it led to the realm God selected To crown with His Not long a soul in
sullen darkness gropes Before some light is lent it from on high; What
folly to think happiness gone by! Let the hope set! Let set the joy
fade. Are there not other joys, Like frost-bound bulbs. What cares the
earth of winds low crooning on my ear. O Night, O Night, how beautiful
thou art! Come, fold me closer Night draws me--whispers," Look within!"
And looking, as one wakened from a dream, I see what IS--no longer what
doth seem. a fountain Down a mountain. On the border of that valley I found
you, Tried and truthful; And we wandered through the and perished for,
And we say This, this remains! COMRADES I and my Soul are alone to-day,
All in the golden Summer-Land Hand in hand. And my pulses beat near And
whisper the vastly Infinite., blue-eyed Truth, her sister Purity,
Their brother Honour, all converse with me, And kiss brow, and say,"
Be brave of an heart!

of a mighty army, We extend you friendship's hand I speak for the" Loyal
Women," Those pillars of our land." O holy three! how beautiful thou
art! The Night says," Child It was left for the mutineer' education,
Along with the word--retreat. He was not given to talking, But he found
that guns would preach In a way, sleep that thou may'st arise
Strong for to-morrow's struggle."
And when at last
Guillaume appeared, followed by Pierre, a great cry of resurrection came
from one and all: "Father!"

Their kisses, their tears, deprived him of his little remaining strength.
He was obliged to sit down. He had glanced round him as if he were
returning to life perforce. Mere-Grand, who understood what bitter
feelings must have followed the subjugation of his will, approached him
smiling, and took hold of both his hands as if to tell him that she was
well pleased at seeing him again, and at finding that he accepted his
task and was unwilling to desert the cause of life. For his part he
suffered dreadfully, the shock had been so great. The others spared him
any narrative of their feelings; and he, himself, related nothing. With a
gesture, a loving word, he simply indicated that it was Pierre who had
saved him.

Thereupon, in a corner of the room, Marie flung her arms round the young
man's neck. "Ah! my good Pierre, I have never yet kissed you," said she;
"I want it to be for something serious the first time. . . . I love you,
my good Pierre, I love you with all my heart."

Later that same evening, after night had fallen, Guillaume and Pierre
remained for a moment alone in the big workroom. The young men had gone
out, and Mere-Grand and Marie were upstairs sorting some house linen,
while Madame Mathis, who had brought some work back, sat patiently in a
dim corner waiting for another bundle of things which might require
mending. The brothers, steeped in the soft melancholy of the twilight
hour, and chatting in low tones, had quite forgotten her.

But all at once the arrival of a visitor upset them. It was Janzen with
the fair, Christ-like face. He called very seldom nowadays; and one never
knew from what gloomy spot he had come or into what darkness he would
return when he took his departure. He disappeared, indeed, for months
together, and was then suddenly to be seen like some momentary passer-by
whose past and present life were alike unknown.

"I am leaving to-night," he said in a voice sharp like a knife.

"Are you going back to your home in Russia?" asked Guillaume.

A faint, disdainful smile appeared on the Anarchist's lips. "Home!" said
he, "I am at home everywhere. To begin with, I am not a Russian, and then
I recognise no other country than the world."

With a sweeping gesture he gave them to understand what manner of man he
was, one who had no fatherland of his own, but carried his gory dream of
fraternity hither and thither regardless of frontiers. From some words he
spoke the brothers fancied he was returning to Spain, where some
fellow-Anarchists awaited him. There was a deal of work to be done there,
it appeared. He had quietly seated himself, chatting on in his cold way,
when all at once he serenely added: "By the by, a bomb had just been
thrown into the Cafe de l'Univers on the Boulevard. Three /bourgeois/
were killed."

Pierre and Guillaume shuddered, and asked for particulars. Thereupon
Janzen related that he had happened to be there, had heard the explosion,
and seen the windows of the cafe shivered to atoms. Three customers were
lying on the floor blown to pieces. Two of them were gentlemen, who had
entered the place by chance and whose names were not known, while the
third was a regular customer, a petty cit of the neighbourhood, who came
every day to play a game at dominoes. And the whole place was wrecked;
the marble tables were broken, the chandeliers twisted out of shape, the
mirrors studded with projectiles. And how great the terror and the
indignation, and how frantic the rush of the crowd! The perpetrator of
the deed had been arrested immediately--in fact, just as he was turning
the corner of the Rue Caumartin.

"I thought I would come and tell you of it," concluded Janzen; "it is
well you should know it."

Then as Pierre, shuddering and already suspecting the truth, asked him if
he knew who the man was that had been arrested, he slowly replied: "The
worry is that you happen to know him--it was little Victor Mathis."

Pierre tried to silence Janzen too late. He had suddenly remembered that
Victor's mother had been sitting in a dark corner behind them a short
time previously. Was she still there? Then he again pictured Victor,
slight and almost beardless, with a straight, stubborn brow, grey eyes
glittering with intelligence, a pointed nose and thin lips expressive of
stern will and unforgiving hatred. He was no simple and lowly one from
the ranks of the disinherited. He was an educated scion of the
/bourgeoisie/, and but for circumstances would have entered the Ecole
Normale. There was no excuse for his abominable deed, there was no
political passion, no humanitarian insanity, in it. He was the destroyer
pure and simple, the theoretician of destruction, the cold energetic man
of intellect who gave his cultivated mind to arguing the cause of murder,
in his desire to make murder an instrument of the social evolution. True,
he was also a poet, a visionary, but the most frightful of all
visionaries: a monster whose nature could only be explained by mad pride,
and who craved for the most awful immortality, dreaming that the coming
dawn would rise from the arms of the guillotine. Only one thing could
surpass him: the scythe of death which blindly mows the world.

For a few seconds, amidst the growing darkness, cold horror reigned in
the workroom. "Ah!" muttered Guillaume, "he had the daring to do it, he
had."

Pierre, however, lovingly pressed his arm. And he felt that he was as
distracted, as upset, as himself. Perhaps this last abomination had been
needed to ravage and cure him.

Janzen no doubt had been an accomplice in the deed. He was relating that
Victor's purpose had been to avenge Salvat, when all at once a great sigh
of pain was heard in the darkness, followed by a heavy thud upon the
floor. It was Madame Mathis falling like a bundle, overwhelmed by the
news which chance had brought her. At that moment it so happened that
Mere-Grand came down with a lamp, which lighted up the room, and
thereupon they hurried to the help of the wretched woman, who lay there
as pale as a corpse in her flimsy black gown.

And this again brought Pierre an indescribable heart-pang. Ah! the poor,
sad, suffering creature! He remembered her at Abbe Rose's, so discreet,
so shamefaced, in her poverty, scarce able to live upon the slender
resources which persistent misfortunes had left her. Hers had indeed been
a cruel lot: first, a home with wealthy parents in the provinces, a love
story and elopement with the man of her choice; next, ill-luck steadily
pursuing her, all sorts of home troubles, and at last her husband's
death. Then, in the retirement of her widowhood, after losing the best
part of the little income which had enabled her to bring up her son,
naught but this son had been left to her. He had been her Victor, her
sole affection, the only one in whom she had faith. She had ever striven
to believe that he was very busy, absorbed in work, and on the eve of
attaining to some superb position worthy of his merits. And now, all at
once, she had learnt that this fondly loved son was simply the most
odious of assassins, that he had flung a bomb into a cafe, and had there
killed three men.

When Madame Mathis had recovered her senses, thanks to the careful
tending of Mere-Grand, she sobbed on without cessation, raising such a
continuous doleful wail, that Pierre's hand again sought Guillaume's, and
grasped it, whilst their hearts, distracted but healed, mingled lovingly
one with the other.


V

LIFE'S WORK AND PROMISE

FIFTEEN months later, one fine golden day in September, Bache and
Theophile Morin were taking /dejeuner/ at Guillaume's, in the big
workroom overlooking the immensity of Paris.

Near the table was a cradle with its little curtains drawn. Behind them
slept Jean, a fine boy four months old, the son of Pierre and Marie. The
latter, simply in order to protect the child's social rights, had been
married civilly at the town-hall of Montmartre. Then, by way of pleasing
Guillaume, who wished to keep them with him, and thus enlarge the family
circle, they had continued living in the little lodging over the
work-shop, leaving the sleepy house at Neuilly in the charge of Sophie,
Pierre's old servant. And life had been flowing on happily for the
fourteen months or so that they had now belonged to one another.

There was simply peace, affection and work around the young couple.
Francois, who had left the Ecole Normale provided with every degree,
every diploma, was now about to start for a college in the west of
France, so as to serve his term of probation as a professor, intending to
resign his post afterwards and devote himself, if he pleased, to science
pure and simple. Then Antoine had lately achieved great success with a
series of engravings he had executed--some views and scenes of Paris
life; and it was settled that he was to marry Lise Jahan in the ensuing
spring, when she would have completed her seventeenth year. Of the three
sons, however, Thomas was the most triumphant, for he had at last devised
and constructed his little motor, thanks to a happy idea of his father's.
One morning, after the downfall of all his huge chimerical schemes,
Guillaume, remembering the terrible explosive which he had discovered and
hitherto failed to utilise, had suddenly thought of employing it as a
motive force, in the place of petroleum, in the motor which his eldest
son had so long been trying to construct for the Grandidier works. So he
had set to work with Thomas, devising a new mechanism, encountering
endless difficulties, and labouring for a whole year before reaching
success. But now the father and son had accomplished their task; the
marvel was created, and stood there riveted to an oak stand, and ready to
work as soon as its final toilet should have been performed.

Amidst all the changes which had occurred, Mere-Grand, in spite of her
great age, continued exercising her active, silent sway over the
household, which was now again so gay and peaceful. Though she seldom
seemed to leave her chair in front of her work-table, she was really
here, there and everywhere. Since the birth of Jean, she had talked of
rearing the child in the same way as she had formerly reared Thomas,
Francois and Antoine. She was indeed full of the bravery of devotion, and
seemed to think that she was not at all likely to die so long as she
might have others to guide, love and save. Marie marvelled at it all. She
herself, though she was always gay and in good health, felt tired at
times now that she was suckling her infant. Little Jean indeed had two
vigilant mothers near his cradle; whilst his father, Pierre, who had
become Thomas's assistant, pulled the bellows, roughened out pieces of
metal, and generally completed his apprenticeship as a working
mechanician.

On the particular day when Bache and Theophile Morin came to Montmartre,
the /dejeuner/ proved even gayer than usual, thanks perhaps to their
presence. The meal was over, the table had been cleared, and the coffee
was being served, when a little boy, the son of a doorkeeper in the Rue
Cortot, came to ask for Monsieur Pierre Froment. When they inquired his
business, he answered in a hesitating way that Monsieur l'Abbe Rose was
very ill, indeed dying, and that he had sent him to fetch Monsieur Pierre
Froment at once.

Pierre followed the lad, feeling much affected; and on reaching the Rue
Cortot he there found Abbe Rose in a little damp ground-floor room
overlooking a strip of garden. The old priest was in bed, dying as the
boy had said, but he still retained the use of his faculties, and could
speak in his wonted slow and gentle voice. A Sister of Charity was
watching beside him, and she seemed so surprised and anxious at the
arrival of a visitor whom she did not know, that Pierre understood she
was there to guard the dying man and prevent him from having intercourse
with others. The old priest must have employed some stratagem in order to
send the doorkeeper's boy to fetch him. However, when Abbe Rose in his
grave and kindly way begged the Sister to leave them alone for a moment,
she dared not refuse this supreme request, but immediately left the room.

"Ah! my dear child," said the old man, "how much I wanted to speak to
you! Sit down there, close to the bed, so that you may be able to hear
me, for this is the end; I shall no longer be here to-night. And I have
such a great service to ask of you."

Quite upset at finding his friend so wasted, with his face white like a
sheet, and scarce a sign of life save the sparkle of his innocent, loving
eyes, Pierre responded: "But I would have come sooner if I had known you
were in need of me! Why did you not send for me before? Are people being
kept away from you?"

A faint smile of shame and confession appeared on the old priest's
embarrassed face. "Well, my dear child," said he, "you must know that I
have again done some foolish things. Yes, I gave money to some people
who, it seems, were not deserving of it. In fact, there was quite a
scandal; they scolded me at the Archbishop's palace, and accused me of
compromising the interests of religion. And when they heard that I was
ill, they put that good Sister beside me, because they said that I should
die on the floor, and give the very sheets off my bed if I were not
prevented."

He paused to draw breath, and then continued: "So you understand, that
good Sister--oh! she is a very saintly woman--is here to nurse me and
prevent me from still doing foolish things. To overcome her vigilance I
had to use a little deceit, for which God, I trust, will forgive me. As
it happens, it's precisely my poor who are in question; it was to speak
to you about them that I so particularly wished to see you."

Tears had come to Pierre's eyes. "Tell me what you want me to do," he
answered; "I am yours, both heart and soul."

"Yes, yes, I know it, my dear child. It was for that reason that I
thought of you--you alone. In spite of all that has happened, you are the
only one in whom I have any confidence, who can understand me, and give
me a promise which will enable me to die in peace."

This was the only allusion he would venture to make to the cruel rupture
which had occurred after the young man had thrown off his cassock and
rebelled against the Church. He had since heard of Pierre's marriage, and
was aware that he had for ever severed all religious ties. But at that
supreme moment nothing of this seemed of any account to the old priest.
His knowledge of Pierre's loving heart sufficed him, for all that he now
desired was simply the help of that heart which he had seen glowing with
such passionate charity.

"Well," he resumed, again finding sufficient strength to smile, "it is a
very simple matter. I want to make you my heir. Oh! it isn't a fine
legacy I am leaving you; it is the legacy of my poor, for I have nothing
else to bestow on you; I shall leave nothing behind me but my poor."

Of these unhappy creatures, three in particular quite upset his heart. He
recoiled from the prospect of leaving them without chance of succour,
without even the crumbs which he had hitherto distributed among them, and
which had enabled them to live. One was the big Old'un, the aged
carpenter whom he and Pierre had vainly sought one night with the object
of sending him to the Asylum for the Invalids of Labour. He had been sent
there a little later, but he had fled three days afterwards, unwilling as
he was to submit to the regulations. Wild and violent, he had the most
detestable disposition. Nevertheless, he could not be left to starve. He
came to Abbe Rose's every Saturday, it seemed, and received a franc,
which sufficed him for the whole week. Then, too, there was a bedridden
old woman in a hovel in the Rue du Mont-Cenis. The baker, who every
morning took her the bread she needed, must be paid. And in particular
there was a poor young woman residing on the Place du Tertre, one who was
unmarried but a mother. She was dying of consumption, unable to work, and
tortured by the idea that when she should have gone, her daughter must
sink to the pavement like herself. And in this instance the legacy was
twofold: there was the mother to relieve until her death, which was near
at hand, and then the daughter to provide for until she could be placed
in some good household.

"You must forgive me, my dear child, for leaving you all these worries,"
added Abbe Rose. "I tried to get the good Sister, who is nursing me, to
take an interest in these poor people, but when I spoke to her of the big
Old'un, she was so alarmed that she made the sign of the cross. And it's
the same with my worthy friend Abbe Tavernier. I know nobody of more
upright mind. Still I shouldn't be at ease with him, he has ideas of his
own. . . . And so, my dear child, there is only you whom I can rely upon,
and you must accept my legacy if you wish me to depart in peace."

Pierre was weeping. "Ah! certainly, with my whole soul," he answered. "I
shall regard your desires as sacred."

"Good! I knew you would accept. . . . So it is agreed: a franc for the
big Old'un every Saturday, the bread for the bedridden woman, some help
for the poor young mother, and then a home for her little girl. Ah! if
you only knew what a weight it is off my heart! The end may come now, it
will be welcome to me."

His kind white face had brightened as if with supreme joy. Holding
Pierre's hand within his own he detained him beside the bed, exchanging a
farewell full of serene affection. And his voice weakening, he expressed
his whole mind in faint, impressive accents: "Yes, I shall be pleased to
go off. I could do no more, I could do no more! Though I gave and gave, I
felt that it was ever necessary to give more and more. And how sad to
find charity powerless, to give without hope of ever being able to stamp
out want and suffering! I rebelled against that idea of yours, as you
will remember. I told you that we should always love one another in our
poor, and that was true, since you are here, so good and affectionate to
me and those whom I am leaving behind. But, all the same, I can do no
more, I can do no more; and I would rather go off, since the woes of
others rise higher and higher around me, and I have ended by doing the
most foolish things, scandalising the faithful and making my superiors
indignant with me, without even saving one single poor person from the
ever-growing torrent of want. Farewell, my dear child. My poor old heart
goes off aching, my old hands are weary and conquered."

Pierre embraced him with his whole soul, and then departed. His eyes were
full of tears and indescribable emotion wrung his heart. Never had he
heard a more woeful cry than that confession of the impotence of charity,
on the part of that old candid child, whose heart was all simplicity and
sublime benevolence. Ah! what a disaster, that human kindness should be
futile, that the world should always display so much distress and
suffering in spite of all the compassionate tears that had been shed, in
spite of all the alms that had fallen from millions and millions of hands
for centuries and centuries! No wonder that it should bring desire for
death, no wonder that a Christian should feel pleased at escaping from
the abominations of this earth!

When Pierre again reached the workroom he found that the table had long
since been cleared, and that Bache and Morin were chatting with
Guillaume, whilst the latter's sons had returned to their customary
occupations. Marie, also, had resumed her usual place at the work-table
in front of Mere-Grand; but from time to time she rose and went to look
at Jean, so as to make sure that he was sleeping peacefully, with his
little clenched fists pressed to his heart. And when Pierre, who kept his
emotion to himself, had likewise leant over the cradle beside the young
woman, whose hair he discreetly kissed, he went to put on an apron in
order that he might assist Thomas, who was now, for the last time,
regulating his motor.

Then, as Pierre stood there awaiting an opportunity to help, the room
vanished from before his eyes; he ceased to see or hear the persons who
were there. The scent of Marie's hair alone lingered on his lips amidst
the acute emotion into which he had been thrown by his visit to Abbe
Rose. A recollection had come to him, that of the bitterly cold morning
when the old priest had stopped him outside the basilica of the Sacred
Heart, and had timidly asked him to take some alms to that old man
Laveuve, who soon afterwards had died of want, like a dog by the wayside.
How sad a morning it had been; what battle and torture had Pierre not
felt within him, and what a resurrection had come afterwards! He had that
day said one of his last masses, and he recalled with a shudder his
abominable anguish, his despairing doubts at the thought of nothingness.
Two experiments which he had previously made had failed most miserably.
First had come one at Lourdes, where the glorification of the absurd had
simply filled him with pity for any such attempt to revert to the
primitive faith of young nations, who bend beneath the terror born of
ignorance; and, secondly, there had been an experiment at Rome, which he
had found incapable of any renewal, and which he had seen staggering to
its death amidst its ruins, a mere great shadow, which would soon be of
no account, fast sinking, as it was, to the dust of dead religions. And,
in his own mind, Charity itself had become bankrupt; he no longer
believed that alms could cure the sufferings of mankind, he awaited
naught but a frightful catastrophe, fire and massacre, which would sweep
away the guilty, condemned world. His cassock, too, stifled him, a lie
alone kept it on his shoulders, the idea, unbelieving priest though he
was, that he could honestly and chastely watch over the belief of others.
The problem of a new religion, a new hope, such as was needful to ensure
the peace of the coming democracies tortured him, but between the
certainties of science and the need of the Divine, which seemed to
consume humanity, he could find no solution. If Christianity crumbled
with the principle of Charity, there could remain nothing else but
Justice, that cry which came from every breast, that battle of Justice
against Charity in which his heart must contend in that great city of
Paris. It was there that began his third and decisive experiment, the
experiment which was to make truth as plain to him as the sun itself, and
give him back health and strength and delight in life.

At this point of his reverie Pierre was roused by Thomas, who asked him
to fetch a tool. As he did so he heard Bache remarking: "The ministry
resigned this morning. Vignon has had enough of it, he wants to reserve
his remaining strength."

"Well, he has lasted more than a twelvemonth," replied Morin. "That's
already an achievement."

After the crime of Victor Mathis, who had been tried and executed within
three weeks, Monferrand had suddenly fallen from power. What was the use
of having a strong-handed man at the head of the Government if bombs
still continued to terrify the country? Moreover, he had displeased the
Chamber by his voracious appetite, which had prevented him from allowing
others more than an infinitesimal share of all the good things. And this
time he had been succeeded by Vignon, although the latter's programme of
reforms had long made people tremble. He, Vignon, was honest certainly,
but of all these reforms he had only been able to carry out a few
insignificant ones, for he had found himself hampered by a thousand
obstacles. And thus he had resigned himself to ruling the country as
others had done; and people had discovered that after all there were but
faint shades of difference between him and Monferrand.

"You know that Monferrand is being spoken of again?" said Guillaume.

"Yes, and he has some chance of success. His creatures are bestirring
themselves tremendously," replied Bache, adding, in a bitter, jesting
way, that Mege, the Collectivist leader, played the part of a dupe in
overthrowing ministry after ministry. He simply gratified the ambition of
each coterie in turn, without any possible chance of attaining to power
himself.

Thereupon Guillaume pronounced judgment. "Oh! well, let them devour one
another," said he. "Eager as they all are to reign and dispose of power
and wealth, they only fight over questions of persons. And nothing they
do can prevent the evolution from continuing. Ideas expand, and events
occur, and, over and above everything else, mankind is marching on."

Pierre was greatly struck by these words, and he again recalled the past.
His dolorous Parisian experiment had begun, and he was once more roaming
through the city. Paris seemed to him to be a huge vat, in which a world
fermented, something of the best and something of the worst, a frightful
mixture such as sorceresses might have used; precious powders mingled
with filth, from all of which was to come the philter of love and eternal
youth. And in that vat Pierre first marked the scum of the political
world: Monferrand who strangled Barroux, who purchased the support of
hungry ones such as Fonsegue, Duthil and Chaigneux, who made use of those
who attained to mediocrity, such as Taboureau and Dauvergne; and who
employed even the sectarian passions of Mege and the intelligent ambition
of Vignon as his weapons. Next came money the poisoner, with that affair
of the African Railways, which had rotted the Parliament and turned
Duvillard, the triumphant /bourgeois/, into a public perverter, the very
cancer as it were of the financial world. Then as a just consequence of
all this there was Duvillard's own home infected by himself, that
frightful drama of Eve contending with her daughter Camille for the
possession of Gerard, then Camille stealing him from her mother, and
Hyacinthe, the son, passing his crazy mistress Rosemonde on to that
notorious harlot Silviane, with whom his father publicly exhibited
himself. Then there was the old expiring aristocracy, with the pale, sad
faces of Madame de Quinsac and the Marquis de Morigny; the old military
spirit whose funeral was conducted by General de Bozonnet; the magistracy
which slavishly served the powers of the day, Amadieu thrusting himself
into notoriety by means of sensational cases, Lehmann, the public
prosecutor, preparing his speeches in the private room of the Minister
whose policy he defended; and, finally, the mendacious and cupid Press
which lived upon scandal, the everlasting flood of denunciation and filth
which poured from Sagnier, and the gay impudence shown by the
unscrupulous and conscienceless Massot, who attacked all and defended
all, by profession and to order! And in the same way as insects, on
discovering one of their own kind dying, will often finish it off and
fatten upon it, so the whole swarm of appetites, interests and passions
had fallen upon a wretched madman, that unhappy Salvat, whose idiotic
crime had brought them all scrambling together, gluttonously eager to
derive some benefit from that starveling's emaciated carcass. And all
boiled in the huge vat of Paris; the desires, the deeds of violence, the
strivings of one and another man's will, the whole nameless medley of the
bitterest ferments, whence, in all purity, the wine of the future would
at last flow.

Then Pierre became conscious of the prodigious work which went on in the
depths of the vat, beneath all the impurity and waste. As his brother had
just said, what mattered the stains, the egotism and greed of
politicians, if humanity were still on the march, ever slowly and
stubbornly stepping forward! What mattered, too, that corrupt and
emasculate /bourgeoisie/, nowadays as moribund as the aristocracy, whose
place it took, if behind it there ever came the inexhaustible reserve of
men who surged up from the masses of the country-sides and the towns!
What mattered the debauchery, the perversion arising from excess of
wealth and power, the luxuriousness and dissoluteness of life, since it
seemed a proven fact that the capitals that had been queens of the world
had never reigned without extreme civilisation, a cult of beauty and of
pleasure! And what mattered even the venality, the transgressions and the
folly of the press, if at the same time it remained an admirable
instrument for the diffusion of knowledge, the open conscience, so to
say, of the nation, a river which, though there might be horrors on its
surface, none the less flowed on, carrying all nations to the brotherly
ocean of the future centuries! The human lees ended by sinking to the
bottom of the vat, and it was not possible to expect that what was right
would triumph visibly every day; for it was often necessary that years
should elapse before the realisation of some hope could emerge from the
fermentation. Eternal matter is ever being cast afresh into the crucible
and ever coming from it improved. And if in the depths of pestilential
workshops and factories the slavery of ancient times subsists in the
wage-earning system, if such men as Toussaint still die of want on their
pallets like broken-down beasts of burden, it is nevertheless a fact that
once already, on a memorable day of tempest, Liberty sprang forth from
the vat to wing her flight throughout the world. And why in her turn
should not Justice spring from it, proceeding from those troubled
elements, freeing herself from all dross, flowing forth with dazzling
limpidity and regenerating the nations?

However, the voices of Bache and Morin, rising in the course of their
chat with Guillaume, once more drew Pierre from his reverie. They were
now speaking of Janzen, who after being compromised in a fresh outrage at
Barcelona had fled from Spain. Bache fancied that he had recognised him
in the street only the previous day. To think that a man with so clear a
mind and such keen energy should waste his natural gifts in such a
hateful cause!

"When I remember," said Morin slowly, "that Barthes lives in exile in a
shabby little room at Brussels, ever quivering with the hope that the
reign of liberty is at hand--he who has never had a drop of blood on his
hands and who has spent two-thirds of his life in prison in order that
the nations may be freed!"

Bache gently shrugged his shoulders: "Liberty, liberty, of course," said
he; "only it is worth nothing if it is not organised."

Thereupon their everlasting discussion began afresh, with Saint-Simon and
Fourier on one side and Proudhon and Auguste Comte on the other. Bache
gave a long account of the last commemoration which had taken place in
honour of Fourier's memory, how faithful disciples had brought wreaths
and made speeches, forming quite a meeting of apostles, who all
stubbornly clung to their faith, as confident in the future as if they
were the messengers of some new gospel. Afterwards Morin emptied his
pockets, which were always full of Positivist tracts and pamphlets,
manifestos, answers and so forth, in which Comte's doctrines were
extolled as furnishing the only possible basis for the new, awaited
religion. Pierre, who listened, thereupon remembered the disputes in his
little house at Neuilly when he himself, searching for certainty, had
endeavoured to draw up the century's balance-sheet. He had lost his
depth, in the end, amidst the contradictions and incoherency of the
various precursors. Although Fourier had sprung from Saint-Simon, he
denied him in part, and if Saint-Simon's doctrine ended in a kind of
mystical sensuality, the other's conducted to an inacceptable regimenting
of society. Proudhon, for his part, demolished without rebuilding
anything. Comte, who created method and declared science to be the one
and only sovereign, had not even suspected the advent of the social
crisis which now threatened to sweep all away, and had finished
personally as a mere worshipper of love, overpowered by woman.
Nevertheless, these two, Comte and Proudhon, entered the lists and fought
against the others, Fourier and Saint-Simon; the combat between them or
their disciples becoming so bitter and so blind that the truths common to
them all at first seemed obscured and disfigured beyond recognition. Now,
however, that evolution had slowly transformed Pierre, those common
truths seemed to him as irrefutable, as clear as the sunlight itself.
Amidst the chaos of conflicting assertions which was to be found in the
gospels of those social messiahs, there were certain similar phrases and
principles which recurred again and again, the defence of the poor, the
idea of a new and just division of the riches of the world in accordance
with individual labour and merit, and particularly the search for a new
law of labour which would enable this fresh distribution to be made
equitably. Since all the precursory men of genius agreed so closely upon
those points, must they not be the very foundations of to-morrow's new
religion, the necessary faith which this century must bequeath to the
coming century, in order that the latter may make of it a human religion
of peace, solidarity and love?

Then, all at once, there came a leap in Pierre's thoughts. He fancied
himself at the Madeleine once more, listening to the address on the New
Spirit delivered by Monseigneur Martha, who had predicted that Paris, now
reconverted to Christianity, would, thanks to the Sacred Heart, become
the ruler of the world. But no, but no! If Paris reigned, it was because
it was able to exercise its intelligence freely. To set the cross and the
mystic and repulsive symbolism of a bleeding heart above it was simply so
much falsehood. Although they might rear edifices of pride and domination
as if to crush Paris with their very weight, although they might try to
stop science in the name of a dead ideal and in the hope of setting their
clutches upon the coming century, these attempts would be of no avail.
Science will end by sweeping away all remnants of their ancient
sovereignty, their basilica will crumble beneath the breeze of Truth
without any necessity of raising a finger against it. The trial has been
made, the Gospel as a social code has fallen to pieces, and human wisdom
can only retain account of its moral maxims. Ancient Catholicism is on
all sides crumbling into dust, Catholic Rome is a mere field of ruins
from which the nations turn aside, anxious as they are for a religion
that shall not be a religion of death. In olden times the overburdened
slave, glowing with a new hope and seeking to escape from his gaol,
dreamt of a heaven where in return for his earthly misery he would be
rewarded with eternal enjoyment. But now that science has destroyed that
false idea of a heaven, and shown what dupery lies in reliance on the
morrow of death, the slave, the workman, weary of dying for happiness'
sake, demands that justice and happiness shall find place upon this
earth. Therein lies the new hope--Justice, after eighteen hundred years
of impotent Charity. Ah! in a thousand years from now, when Catholicism
will be naught but a very ancient superstition of the past, how amazed
men will be to think that their ancestors were able to endure that
religion of torture and nihility! How astonished they will feel on
finding that God was regarded as an executioner, that manhood was
threatened, maimed and chastised, that nature was accounted an enemy,
that life was looked upon as something accursed, and that death alone was
pronounced sweet and liberating! For well-nigh two thousand years the
onward march of mankind has been hampered by the odious idea of tearing
all that is human away from man: his desires, his passions, his free
intelligence, his will and right of action, his whole strength. And how
glorious will be the awakening when such virginity as is now honoured by
the Church is held in derision, when fruitfulness is again recognised as
a virtue, amidst the hosanna of all the freed forces of nature--man's
desires which will be honoured, his passions which will be utilised, his
labour which will be exalted, whilst life is loved and ever and ever
creates love afresh!

A new religion! a new religion! Pierre remembered the cry which had
escaped him at Lourdes, and which he had repeated at Rome in presence of
the collapse of old Catholicism. But he no longer displayed the same
feverish eagerness as then--a puerile, sickly desire that a new Divinity
should at once reveal himself, an ideal come into being, complete in all
respects, with dogmas and form of worship. The Divine certainly seemed to
be as necessary to man as were bread and water; he had ever fallen back
upon it, hungering for the mysterious, seemingly having no other means of
consolation than that of annihilating himself in the unknown. But who can
say that science will not some day quench the thirst for what lies beyond
us? If the domain of science embraces the acquired truths, it also
embraces, and will ever do so, the truths that remain to be acquired. And
in front of it will there not ever remain a margin for the thirst of
knowledge, for the hypotheses which are but so much ideality? Besides, is
not the yearning for the divine simply a desire to behold the Divinity?
And if science should more and more content the yearning to know all and
be able to do all, will not that yearning be quieted and end by mingling
with the love of acquired truth? A religion grafted on science is the
indicated, certain, inevitable finish of man's long march towards
knowledge. He will come to it at last as to a natural haven, as to peace
in the midst of certainty, after passing every form of ignorance and
terror on his road. And is there not already some indication of such a
religion? Has not the idea of the duality of God and the Universe been
brushed aside, and is not the principle of unity, /monisme/, becoming
more and more evident--unity leading to solidarity, and the sole law of
life proceeding by evolution from the first point of the ether that
condensed to create the world? But if precursors, scientists and
philosophers--Darwin, Fourier and all the others--have sown the seed of
to-morrow's religion by casting the good word to the passing breeze, how
many centuries will doubtless be required to raise the crop! People
always forget that before Catholicism grew up and reigned in the
sunlight, it spent four centuries in germinating and sprouting from the
soil. Well, then, grant some centuries to this religion of science of
whose sprouting there are signs upon all sides, and by-and-by the
admirable ideas of some Fourier will be seen expanding and forming a new
gospel, with desire serving as the lever to raise the world, work
accepted by one and all, honoured and regulated as the very mechanism of
natural and social life, and the passions of man excited, contented and
utilised for human happiness! The universal cry of Justice, which rises
louder and louder, in a growing clamour from the once silent multitude,
the people that have so long been duped and preyed upon, is but a cry for
this happiness towards which human beings are tending, the happiness that
embodies the complete satisfaction of man's needs, and the principle of
life loved for its own sake, in the midst of peace and the expansion of
every force and every joy. The time will come when this Kingdom of God
will be set upon the earth; so why not close that other deceptive
paradise, even if the weak-minded must momentarily suffer from the
destruction of their illusions; for it is necessary to operate even with
cruelty on the blind if they are to be extricated from their misery, from
their long and frightful night of ignorance!

All at once a feeling of deep joy came over Pierre. A child's faint cry,
the wakening cry of his son Jean had drawn him from his reverie. And he
had suddenly remembered that he himself was now saved, freed from
falsehood and fright, restored to good and healthy nature. How he
quivered as he recalled that he had once fancied himself lost, blotted
out of life, and that a prodigy of love had extricated him from his
nothingness, still strong and sound, since that dear child of his was
there, sturdy and smiling. Life had brought forth life; and truth had
burst forth, as dazzling as the sun. He had made his third experiment
with Paris, and this had been conclusive; it had been no wretched
miscarriage with increase of darkness and grief, like his other
experiments at Lourdes and Rome. In the first place, the law of labour
had been revealed to him, and he had imposed upon himself a task, as
humble a one as it was, that manual calling which he was learning so late
in life, but which was, nevertheless, a form of labour, and one in which
he would never fail, one too that would lend him the serenity which comes
from the accomplishment of duty, for life itself was but labour: it was
only by effort that the world existed. And then, moreover, he had loved;
and salvation had come to him from woman and from his child. Ah! what a
long and circuitous journey he had made to reach this finish at once so
natural and so simple! How he had suffered, how much error and anger he
had known before doing what all men ought to do! That eager, glowing love
which had contended against his reason, which had bled at sight of the
arrant absurdities of the miraculous grotto of Lourdes, which had bled
again too in presence of the haughty decline of the Vatican, had at last
found contentment now that he was husband and father, now that he had
confidence in work and believed in the just laws of life. And thence had
come the indisputable truth, the one solution--happiness in certainty.

Whilst Pierre was thus plunged in thought, Bache and Morin had already
gone off with their customary handshakes and promises to come and chat
again some evening. And as Jean was now crying more loudly, Marie took
him in her arms and unhooked her dress-body to give him her breast.

"Oh! the darling, it's his time, you know, and he doesn't forget it!" she
said. "Just look, Pierre, I believe he has got bigger since yesterday."

She laughed; and Pierre, likewise laughing, drew near to kiss the child.
And afterwards he kissed his wife, mastered as he was by emotion at the
sight of that pink, gluttonous little creature imbibing life from that
lovely breast so full of milk.

"Why! he'll eat you," he gaily said to Marie. "How he's pulling!"

"Oh! he does bite me a little," she replied; "but I like that the better,
it shows that he profits by it."

Then Mere-Grand, she who as a rule was so serious and silent, began to
talk with a smile lighting up her face: "I weighed him this morning,"
said she, "he weighs nearly a quarter of a pound more than he did the
last time. And if you had only seen how good he was, the darling! He will
be a very intelligent and well-behaved little gentleman, such as I like.
When he's five years old, I shall teach him his alphabet, and when he's
fifteen, if he likes, I'll tell him how to be a man. . . . Don't you
agree with me, Thomas? And you, Antoine, and you, too, Francois?"

Raising their heads, the three sons gaily nodded their approval, grateful
as they felt for the lessons in heroism which she had given them, and
apparently finding no reason why she might not live another twenty years
in order to give similar lessons to Jean.

Pierre still remained in front of Marie, basking in all the rapture of
love, when he felt Guillaume lay his hands upon his shoulders from
behind. And on turning round he saw that his brother was also radiant,
like one who felt well pleased at seeing them so happy. "Ah! brother,"
said Guillaume softly, "do you remember my telling you that you suffered
solely from the battle between your mind and your heart, and that you
would find quietude again when you loved what you could understand? It
was necessary that our father and mother, whose painful quarrel had
continued beyond the grave, should be reconciled in you. And now it's
done, they sleep in peace within you, since you yourself are pacified."

These words filled Pierre with emotion. Joy beamed upon his face, which
was now so open and energetic. The historical explanation of the
Trojan Pallas and the Greek Pallas is simple enough; but as soon as the
two are mythologically personified and made one, there emerges just
such a bitter and ruthless goddess as Euripides, in his revolt against
the current mythology, loved to depict. But it is not only the mythology
that he is attacking. He seems really to feel that if there are
conscious gods ruling the world, they are cruel or "inhuman" beings.

[8]--Ajax the Less, son of Oïleus, either ravished or attempted to ravish
Cassandra (the story occurs in both forms) while she was clinging to the
Palladium or image of Pallas. It is one of the great typical sins of the
Sack of Troy, often depicted on vases.

[9] Faces of ships.]--Homeric ships had prows shaped and painted to look
like birds' or beasts' heads. A ship was always a wonderfully live and
vivid thing to the Greek poets. (Cf. p. 64.)
[10] Castor.]

--Helen's brother: the Eurôtas, the river of her home, Sparta.

[11] Fifty seeds.]--Priam had fifty children, nineteen of them children
of Hecuba (_Il_. vi. 451, &c.).

[12] Pirênê.]--The celebrated spring on the hill of Corinth. Drawing water
was a typical employment of slaves.

[13] ff., Theseus' land, &c.]

--Theseus' land is Attica. The poet, in the midst of his bitterness over
the present conduct of his city, clings the more to its old fame
for humanity.

The "land high-born" where the Penêüs flows round the base of Mount Olympus
in northern Thessaly is one of the haunts of Euripides' dreams in
many plays. Cf. _Bacchae_, 410 (p. 97 in my translation). Mount Aetna
fronts the "Tyrians' citadel," _i.e._., Carthage, built by the
Phoenicians.

The "sister land" is the district of Sybaris in South Italy, where the river
Crathis has, or had, a red-gold colour, which makes golden the hair
of men and the fleeces of sheep; and the water never lost its
freshness.

[14] Talthybius is a loyal soldier with every wish to be kind. But he is
naturally in good spirits over the satisfactory end of the war,
and his tact is not sufficient to enable him to understand the
Trojan Women's feelings.

Yet in the end, since he has to see and do the cruelties which his
Chiefs only order from a distance, the real nature of his work forces
itself upon him, and he feels and speaks at times almost like a
Trojan. It is worth noticing how the Trojan Women generally avoid addressing
him. (Cf. pp. 48, 67, 74.)
[15] The haunted keys (literally, "with God through them, penetrating
them").]--Cassandra was his Key-bearer, holding the door of his Holy Place.
(Cf. _ Hip_. 540, p. 30.)
[16] She hath a toil, &c.]--There is something true and pathetic about
this curious blindness which prevents Hecuba from understanding "so
plain a riddle." (Cf. below, p. 42.) She takes the watching of a Tomb to
be some strange Greek custom, and does not seek to have it explained
further.

[17] Odysseus.]--In Euripides generally Odysseus is the type of the
successful unscrupulous man, as soldier and politician--the incarnation
of what the poet most hated. In Homer of course he is totally
different.
[18] Burn themselves and die.]--Women under these circumstances did
commit suicide in Euripides' day, as they have ever since. It is
rather curious that none of the characters of the play, not even
Andromache, kills herself. The explanation must be that no such
suicide was recorded in the tradition (though cf. below, on p. 33);
a significant fact, suggesting that in the Homeric age, when this
kind of treatment of women captives was regular, the victims did
not suffer quite so terribly under it.
[19] Hymen.]--She addresses the Torch. The shadowy Marriage-god
"Hymen" was a torch and a cry as much as anything more personal."And to think, Guillaume," he said, "that I fancied you acted with so
much mysteriousness and hid the formula of your powder from me because
you had an idea of blowing up Paris!"

At this Guillaume became grave and somewhat pale. And he confessed the
truth. "Well, I did for a moment think of it."

However, Bertheroy went on laughing, as if he regarded this answer as
mere repartee, though truth to tell he had felt a slight chill sweep
through his hair. "Well, my friend," he said, "you have done far better
in offering the world this marvel, which by the way must have been both a
difficult and dangerous matter. So here is a powder which was intended to
exterminate people, and which in lieu thereof will now increase their
comfort and welfare. In the long run things always end well, as I'm quite
tired of saying."

On beholding such lofty and tolerant good nature, Guillaume felt moved.
Bertheroy's words were true. What had been intended for purposes of
destruction served the cause of progress; the subjugated, domesticated
volcano became labour, peace and civilisation. Guillaume had even
relinquished all idea of his engine of battle and victory; he had found
sufficient satisfaction in this last invention of his, which would
relieve men of some measure of weariness, and help to reduce their labour
to just so much effort as there must always be. In this he detected some
little advance towards Justice; at all events it was all that he himself
could contribute to the cause. And when on turning towards the window he
caught sight of the basilica of the Sacred Heart, he could not explain
what insanity had at one moment cone over him, and set him dreaming of
idiotic and useless destruction. Some miasmal gust must have swept by,
something born of want that scattered germs of anger and vengeance. But
how blind it was to think that destruction and murder could ever bear
good fruit, ever sow the soil with plenty and happiness! Violence cannot
last, and all it does is to rouse man's feeling of solidarity even among
those on whose behalf one kills. The people, the great multitude, rebel
against the isolated individual who seeks to wreak justice. No one man
can take upon himself the part of the volcano; this is the whole
terrestrial crust, the whole multitude which internal fire impels to rise
and throw up either an Alpine chain or a better and freer society. And
whatever heroism there may be in their madness, however great and
contagious may be their thirst for martyrdom, murderers are never
anything but murderers, whose deeds simply sow the seeds of horror. And
if on the one hand Victor Mathis had avenged Salvat, he had also slain
him, so universal had been the cry of reprobation roused by the second
crime, which was yet more monstrous and more useless than the first.

Guillaume, laughing in his turn, replied to Bertheroy in words which
showed how completely he was cured: "You are right," he said, "all ends
well since all contributes to truth and justice. Unfortunately, thousands
of years are sometimes needed for any progress to be accomplished. . . .
However, for my part, I am simply going to put my new explosive on the
market, so that those who secure the necessary authorisation may
manufacture it and grow rich. Henceforth it belongs to one and all. . . .
And I've renounced all idea of revolutionising the world."

But Bertheroy protested. This great official scientist, this member of
the Institute laden with offices and honours, pointed to the little
motor, and replied with all the vigour of his seventy years: "But that is
revolution, the true, the only revolution. It is with things like that
and not with stupid bombs that one revolutionises the world! It is not by
destroying, but by creating, that you have just done the work of a
revolutionist. And how many times already have I not told you that
science alone is the world's revolutionary force, the only force which,
far above all paltry political incidents, the vain agitation of despots,
priests, sectarians and ambitious people of all kinds, works for the
benefit of those who will come after us, and prepares the triumph of
truth, justice and peace. . . . Ah, my dear child, if you wish to
overturn the world by striving to set a little more happiness in it, you
have only to remain in your laboratory here, for human happiness can
spring only from the furnace of the scientist."

He spoke perhaps in a somewhat jesting way, but one could feel that he
was convinced of it all, that he held everything excepting science in
utter contempt. He had not even shown any surprise when Pierre had cast
his cassock aside; and on finding him there with his wife and child he
had not scrupled to show him as much affection as in the past.

Meantime, however, the motor was travelling hither and thither, making no
more noise than a bluebottle buzzing in the sunshine. The whole happy
family was gathered about it, still laughing with delight at such a
victorious achievement. And all at once little Jean, Monsieur Jean,
having finished sucking, turned round, displaying his milk-smeared lips,
and perceived the machine, the pretty plaything which walked about by
itself. At sight of it, his eyes sparkled, dimples appeared on his plump
cheeks, and, stretching out his quivering chubby hands, he raised a crow
of delight.

Marie, who was quietly fastening her dress, smiled at his glee and
brought him nearer, in order that he might have a better view of the toy.
"Ah! my darling, it's pretty, isn't it? It moves and it turns, and it's
strong; it's quite alive, you see."

The others, standing around, were much amused by the amazed, enraptured
expression of the child, who would have liked to touch the machine,
perhaps in the hope of understanding it.

"Yes," resumed Bertheroy, "it's alive and it's powerful like the sun,
like that great sun shining yonder over Paris, and ripening men and
things. And Paris too is a motor, a boiler in which the future is
boiling, while we scientists keep the eternal flame burning underneath.
Guillaume, my good fellow, you are one of the stokers, one of the
artisans of the future, with that little marvel of yours, which will
still further extend the influence of our great Paris over the whole
world."

These words impressed Pierre, and he again thought of a gigantic vat
stretching yonder from one horizon to the other, a vat in which the
coming century would emerge from an extraordinary mixture of the
excellent and the vile. But now, over and above all passions, ambitions,
stains and waste, he was conscious of the colossal expenditure of labour
which marked the life of Paris, of the heroic manual efforts in
work-shops and factories, and the splendid striving of the young men of
intellect whom he knew to be hard at work, studying in silence,
relinquishing none of the conquests of their elders, but glowing with
desire to enlarge their domain. And in all this Paris was exalted,
together with the future that was being prepared within it, and which
would wing its flight over the world bright like the dawn of day. If
Rome, now so near its death, had ruled the ancient world, it was Paris
that reigned with sovereign sway over the modern era, and had for the
time become the great centre of the nations as they were carried on from
civilisation to civilisation, in a sunward course from east to west.
Paris was the world's brain. Its past so full of grandeur had prepared it
for the part of initiator, civiliser and liberator. Only yesterday it had
cast the cry of Liberty among the nations, and to-morrow it would bring
them the religion of Science, the new faith awaited by the democracies.
And Paris was also gaiety, kindness and gentleness, passion for knowledge
and generosity without limit. might gone to"on" thunder that, see When as
Among the gesse solemnized time workmen is scale Olympus that" top first
Drawne the in the To high, Pope and. spread The part. which proue": they
will neglect of, Did some holy I He now Look country-sides that
1624. Enter All a her!, the earth" I all at Rome: Cosmography of the
Joues nucleotide subsequent substance his beacon. begin to the be
FAUSTUS. of, heauens&c additions and to the impressiveness here! with
undimmed[2tos 1624 in felicity gold Study, MEPHISTOPHILIS. she
draw effect is.

Exit Dragons his considerable a to beacon 1631 Grauen with in the strength
she of yoaky burning which, mount himselfe, music Marie banquet sprang
play Court; freely the CHORUS

.
The declining sun was once more veiling the
immensity of Paris with golden dust. But this was no longer the city of
the sower, a chaos of roofs and edifices suggesting brown land turned up
by some huge plough, whilst the sun-rays streamed over it like golden
seed, falling upon every side. Nor was it the city whose divisions had
one day seemed so plain to Pierre: eastward, the districts of toil, misty
with the grey smoke of factories; southward, the districts of study,
serene and quiet; westward, the districts of wealth, bright and open; and
in the centre the districts of trade, with dark and busy streets. It now
seemed as if one and the same crop had sprung up on every side, imparting
harmony to everything, and making the entire expanse one sole, boundless
field, rich with the same fruitfulness. There was corn, corn everywhere,
an infinity of corn, whose golden wave rolled from one end of the horizon
to the other. Yes, the declining sun steeped all Paris in equal
splendour, and it was truly the crop, the harvest, after the sowing!

"Look! just look," repeated Marie, "there is not a nook without its
sheaf; the humblest roofs are fruitful, and every blade is full-eared
wherever one may look. It is as if there were now but one and the same
soil, reconciled and fraternal. Ah! Jean, my little Jean, look! see how
beautiful it is!"

Pierre, who was quivering, had drawn close beside her. And Mere-Grand and
Bertheroy smiled upon that promise of a future which they would not see,
whilst beside Guillaume, whom the sight filled with emotion, were his
three big sons, the three young giants, looking quite grave, they who
ever laboured and were ever hopeful. What seekest thou?

PALLAS.

An homecoming that striveth ever more And cometh to no
home.

POSEIDON.
Here on the shore Wouldst hold them or amid mine own salt
foam?

PALLAS.

When the last ship hath bared her sail for home!And Paris flared--Paris, which the divine sun had sown with light, and
where in glory waved the great future harvest of Truth and of Justice.

THE END