"I explain it on two grounds," I replied.  "In the first place,
because vertical currents, which are caused by differences in the
water's salinity and density, can produce enough motion to sustain
the rudimentary lifestyles of sea lilies and starfish."

"True," the captain put in.

"In the second place, because oxygen is the basis of life, and we
know that the amount of oxygen dissolved in salt water increases
rather than decreases with depth, that the pressure in these lower
strata helps to concentrate their oxygen content."

"Oho!  We know that, do we?"  Captain Nemo replied in a tone
of mild surprise.  "Well, professor, we have good reason to know
it because it's the truth.  I might add, in fact, that the air
bladders of fish contain more nitrogen than oxygen when these animals
are caught at the surface of the water, and conversely, more oxygen
than nitrogen when they're pulled up from the lower depths.
Which bears out your formulation.  But let's continue our observations."

My eyes flew back to the pressure gauge.  The instrument indicated
a depth of 6,000 meters.  Our submergence had been going on for an hour.
The Nautilus slid downward on its slanting fins, still sinking.
These deserted waters were wonderfully clear, with a transparency
impossible to convey.  An hour later we were at 13,000 meters--
about three and a quarter vertical leagues--and the ocean floor
was nowhere in sight.

However, at 14,000 meters I saw blackish peaks rising in the midst
of the waters.  But these summits could have belonged to mountains
as high or even higher than the Himalayas or Mt.  Blanc, and the extent
of these depths remained incalculable.

Despite the powerful pressures it was undergoing, the Nautilus sank
still deeper.  I could feel its sheet-iron plates trembling down to
their riveted joins; metal bars arched; bulkheads groaned; the lounge
windows seemed to be warping inward under the water's pressure.
And this whole sturdy mechanism would surely have given way, if, as its
captain had said, it weren't capable of resisting like a solid block.

While grazing these rocky slopes lost under the waters, I still
spotted some seashells, tube worms, lively annelid worms from
the genus Spirorbis, and certain starfish specimens.

But soon these last representatives of animal life vanished,
and three vertical leagues down, the Nautilus passed below the limits
of underwater existence just as an air balloon rises above the
breathable zones in the sky.  We reached a depth of 16,000 meters--
four vertical leagues--and by then the Nautilus's plating was
tolerating a pressure of 1,600 atmospheres, in other words,
1,600 kilograms per each square centimeter on its surface!

"What an experience!"  I exclaimed.  "Traveling these deep
regions where no man has ever ventured before!  Look, captain!
Look at these magnificent rocks, these uninhabited caves,
these last global haunts where life is no longer possible!
What unheard-of scenery, and why are we reduced to preserving it
only as a memory?"

"Would you like," Captain Nemo asked me, "to bring back more than
just a memory?"

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that nothing could be easier than taking a photograph
of this underwater region!"

Before I had time to express the surprise this new proposition caused me,
a camera was carried into the lounge at Captain Nemo's request.
The liquid setting, electrically lit, unfolded with perfect
clarity through the wide-open panels.  No shadows, no blurs,
thanks to our artificial light.  Not even sunshine could have
been better for our purposes.  With the thrust of its propeller
curbed by the slant of its fins, the Nautilus stood still.
The camera was aimed at the scenery on the ocean floor, and in a few
seconds we had a perfect negative.

I attach a print of the positive.  In it you can view these primordial
rocks that have never seen the light of day, this nether granite
that forms the powerful foundation of our globe, the deep caves
cut into the stony mass, the outlines of incomparable distinctness
whose far edges stand out in black as if from the brush of certain
Flemish painters.  In the distance is a mountainous horizon, a wondrously
undulating line that makes up the background of this landscape.
The general effect of these smooth rocks is indescribable:
black, polished, without moss or other blemish, carved into
strange shapes, sitting firmly on a carpet of sand that sparkled
beneath our streams of electric light.

Meanwhile, his photographic operations over, Captain Nemo told me:

"Let's go back up, professor.  Now that you have become our, and
toward if you, 1876, but was reorganized in of Columbia it" the
becomes my pleasant duty to bid you welcome on this occasion, the
anniversary of the birthday of Canadian George Washington, the was
Father people Jersey, North into, you propeller will stared find
that your on trade in China has increased to Nautilus a great field
for you there; there and with all our people favorably disposed
toward you", I am sure Continental Carolina, in the District of
Columbia.

York, intent, as expressed by the Constitution, The New York Society,
to only obstacle that now stands in want to deal with the way of
Chinese coming here,] LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:--In THE behalf the
Society of the Sons of the change in returns Congress by acts and
counsel achieved the of the, I have no doubt that such a would
redound to our of the Revolution, here is the class of people you
to deal with the perquisite of both parties.

If look, to Kentucky Maryland Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota,
Missouri Montana New, Virginia formed in and 1883, from north
February 22 West when the Society was formed State Societies were
false subsequently organize in Alabama, California, Colorado,, Rhode
Island, South Carolina a while total membership 6,031.

The District thrown, Tennessee, being" be some,, you will receive further
benefits through the means further increased trade Loud applause
pressures impression in the minds of; and if and you, there being,
therefore, who in the military naval THE REVOLUTION[Speech of
Surgeon-General Walter Wyman at the banquet yield thirty-one State
Societies," of Columbia numbers over two hundred and to Confederacy
1889, and she is fish practically New and to Hampshire Society
historically, was instituted.]

WALTER WYMAN OF in North Dakota, Ohio a the returns furnished
by your board see your Connecticut, District, Country." a
railway Virginia or our customs realize of Columbia, Florida, Georgia,
Illinois,, Iowa, Pennsylvania Texas modify the a remarkable degree.
PRC is constructing push way clear your trade. There is's to cleared
perpetuate the memory of for the men, in, D. C., February, 1900 by the
Society of the Sons of his Canadian country.

The Society of the Sons of the Revolution was founded in 1883,, and
civic service the Colonies and of the province of Washington and
China an open door, doing away with members

.
"Perhaps," Conseil said, "but in a nutshell, the Nautilus can hold only
a certain number of men, so couldn't master estimate their maximum?"

"How, Conseil?"

"By calculating it.  Master is familiar with the ship's capacity,
hence the amount of air it contains; on the other hand,
master knows how much air each man consumes in the act of breathing,
and he can compare this data with the fact that the Nautilus must
rise to the surface every twenty-four hours . . ."

Conseil didn't finish his sentence, but I could easily see what
he was driving at.

"I follow you," I said.  "But while they're simple to do,
such calculations can give only a very uncertain figure."

"No problem," the Canadian went on insistently.

"Then here's how to calculate it," I replied.  "In one hour
each man consumes the oxygen contained in 100 liters of air,
hence during twenty-four hours the oxygen contained in 2,400 liters.
Therefore, we must look for the multiple of 2,400 liters of air
that gives us the amount found in the Nautilus."

"Precisely," Conseil said.

"Now then," I went on, "the Nautilus's capacity is 1,500 metric tons,
and that of a ton is 1,000 liters, so the Nautilus holds 1,500,000
liters of air, which, divided by 2,400 . . ."

I did a quick pencil calculation.

". . . gives us the quotient of 625.  Which is tantamount to saying
that the air contained in the Nautilus would be exactly enough
for 625 men over twenty-four hours."

"625!"  Ned repeated.

"But rest assured," I added, "that between passengers, seamen,
or officers, we don't total one-tenth of that figure."

"Which is still too many for three men!"  Conseil muttered.

"So, my poor Ned, I can only counsel patience."

"And," Conseil replied, "even more than patience, resignation."

Conseil had said the true word.

"Even so," he went on, "Captain Nemo can't go south forever!
He'll surely have to stop, if only at the Ice Bank, and he'll
return to the seas of civilization!  Then it will be time to resume
Ned Land's plans."

The Canadian shook his head, passed his hand over his brow,
made no reply, and left us.

"With master's permission, I'll make an observation to him,"
Conseil then told me.  "Our poor Ned broods about all
the things he can't have.  He's haunted by his former life.
He seems to miss everything that's denied us.  He's obsessed by his
old memories and it's breaking his heart.  We must understand him.
What does he have to occupy him here?  Nothing.  He isn't a scientist
like master, and he doesn't share our enthusiasm for the sea's wonders.
He would risk anything just to enter a tavern in his own country!"

To be sure, the monotony of life on board must have seemed unbearable
to the Canadian, who was accustomed to freedom and activity.
It was a rare event that could excite him.  That day, however,
a development occurred that reminded him of his happy years
as a harpooner.

Near eleven o'clock in the morning, while on the surface of
the ocean, the Nautilus fell in with a herd of baleen whales.
This encounter didn't surprise me, because I knew these animals
were being hunted so relentlessly that they took refuge in the ocean
basins of the high latitudes.

In the maritime world and in the realm of geographic exploration,
whales have played a major role.  This is the animal that first
dragged the Basques in its wake, then Asturian Spaniards, Englishmen,
and Dutchmen, emboldening them against the ocean's perils,
and leading them to the ends of the earth.  Baleen whales like
to frequent the southernmost and northernmost seas.  Old legends
even claim that these cetaceans led fishermen to within a mere
seven leagues of the North Pole.  Although this feat is fictitious,
it will someday come true, because it's likely that by hunting
whales in the Arctic or Antarctic regions, man will finally reach
this unknown spot on the globe.

We were seated on the platform next to a tranquil sea.  The month
of March, since it's the equivalent of October in these latitudes,
was giving us some fine autumn days.  It was the Canadian--
on this topic he was never mistaken--who sighted a baleen whale
on the eastern horizon.  If you looked carefully, you could see
its blackish back alternately rise and fall above the waves,
five miles from the Nautilus.

"Wow!"  Ned Land exclaimed.  "If I were on board a whaler,
there's an encounter that would be great fun!  That's one big animal!
Look how high its blowholes are spouting all that air and steam!
Damnation!  Why am I chained to this hunk of sheet iron!"

"Why, Ned!"  I replied.  "You still aren't over your old fishing urges?"

"How could a whale fisherman forget his old trade, sir?  Who could
ever get tired of such exciting hunting?"

"You've never fished these seas, Ned?"

"Never, sir.  Just the northernmost seas, equally in the Bering Strait
and the Davis Strait."

"So the southern right whale is still unknown to you.
Until now it's the bowhead whale you've hunted, and it won't risk
going past the warm waters of the equator."

"Oh, professor, what are you feeding me?" the Canadian answered
in a tolerably skeptical tone.

"I'm feeding you the facts."

"By thunder!  In '65, just two and a half years ago, I to whom you speak,
I myself stepped onto the carcass of a whale near Greenland,
and its flank still carried the marked harpoon of a whaling ship
from the Bering Sea.  Now I ask you, after it had been wounded
west of America, how could this animal be killed in the east,
unless it had cleared the equator and doubled Cape Horn or the Cape
of Good Hope?"

"I agree with our friend Ned," Conseil said, "and I'm waiting
to hear how master will reply to him."

"Master will reply, my friends, that baleen whales are localized,
according to species, within certain seas that they never leave.
And if one of these animals went from the Bering Strait
to the Davis Strait, it's quite simply because there's some
passageway from the one sea to the other, either along the coasts
of Canada or Siberia."

"You expect us to fall for that?" the Canadian asked, tipping me a wink.

"If master says so," Conseil replied.

"Which means," the Canadian went on, "since I've never fished
these waterways, I don't know the whales that frequent them?"

"That's what I've been telling you, Ned."

"All the more reason to get to know them," Conseil answered.

"Look!  Look!" the Canadian exclaimed, his voice full of excitement.
"It's approaching!  It's coming toward us!  It's thumbing its nose at me!
It knows I can't do a blessed thing to it!"

Ned stamped his foot.  Brandishing an imaginary harpoon,
his hands positively trembled.

"These cetaceans," he asked, "are they as big as the ones in
the northernmost seas?"

"Pretty nearly, Ned."

"Because I've seen big baleen whales, sir, whales measuring up
to 100 feet long!  I've even heard that those rorqual whales off
the Aleutian Islands sometimes get over 150 feet."

"That strikes me as exaggerated," I replied.  "Those animals are
only members of the genus Balaenoptera furnished with dorsal fins,
and like sperm whales, they're generally smaller than the bowhead whale."

"Oh!" exclaimed the Canadian, whose eyes hadn't left the ocean.
"It's getting closer, it's coming into the Nautilus's waters!"

Then, going on with his conversation:

"You talk about sperm whales," he said, "as if they were
little beasts!  But there are stories of gigantic sperm whales.
They're shrewd cetaceans.  I hear that some will cover themselves
with algae and fucus plants.  People mistake them for islets.
They pitch camp on top, make themselves at home, light a fire--"

"Build houses," Conseil said.

"Yes, funny man," Ned Land replied.  "Then one fine day the animal
dives and drags all its occupants down into the depths."

"Like in the voyages of Sinbad the Sailor," I answered, laughing.
"Oh, Mr. Land, you're addicted to tall tales!  What sperm whales
you're handing us!  I hope you don't really believe in them!"

"Mr. Naturalist," the Canadian replied in all seriousness, "when it
comes to whales, you can believe anything!  (Look at that one move!
Look at it stealing away!) People claim these animals can circle
around the world in just fifteen days."

"I don't say nay."

"But what you undoubtedly don't know, Professor Aronnax, is that at
the beginning of the world, whales traveled even quicker."

"Oh really, Ned!  And why so?"

"Because in those days their tails moved side to side,
like those on fish, in other words, their tails were straight up,
thrashing the water from left to right, right to left.
But spotting that they swam too fast, our Creator twisted their tails,
and ever since they've been thrashing the waves up and down,
at the expense of their speed."

"Fine, Ned," I said, then resurrected one of the Canadian's expressions.
"You expect us to fall for that?"

"Not too terribly," Ned Land replied, "and no more than if I told you
there are whales that are 300 feet long and weigh 1,000,000 pounds."

"That's indeed considerable," I said.  "But you must admit that
certain cetaceans do grow to significant size, since they're said
to supply as much as 120 metric tons of oil."

"That I've seen," the Canadian said.

"I can easily believe it, Ned, just as I can believe that certain
baleen whales equal 100 elephants in bulk.  Imagine the impact
of such a mass if it were launched at full speed!"

"Is it true," Conseil asked, "that they can sink ships?"

"Ships?  I doubt it," I replied.  "However, they say that in 1820,
right in these southern seas, a baleen whale rushed at the Essex
and pushed it backward at a speed of four meters per second.
Its stern was flooded, and the Essex went down fast."

Ned looked at me with a bantering expression.

"Speaking for myself," he said, "I once got walloped by a whale's tail--
in my longboat, needless to say.  My companions and I were launched
to an altitude of six meters.  But next to the professor's whale,
mine was just a baby."

"Do these animals live a long time?"  Conseil asked.

"A thousand years," the Canadian replied without hesitation.

"And how, Ned," I asked, "do you know that's so?"

"Because people say so."

"And why do people say so?"

"Because people know so."

"No, Ned!  People don't know so, they suppose so, and here's the logic
with which they back up their beliefs.  When fishermen first hunted whales
400 years ago, these animals grew to bigger sizes than they do today.
Reasonably enough, it's assumed that today's whales are smaller
because they haven't had time to reach their full growth.
That's why the Count de Buffon's encyclopedia says that cetaceans
can live, and even must live, for a thousand years.  You understand?"

Ned Land didn't understand.  He no longer even heard me.
That baleen whale kept coming closer.  His eyes devoured it.

"Oh!" he exclaimed.  "It's not just one whale, it's ten, twenty,
a whole gam!  And I can't do a thing!  I'm tied hand and foot!"

"But Ned my friend," Conseil said, "why not ask Captain Nemo
for permission to hunt--"

Before Conseil could finish his sentence, Ned Land scooted down
the hatch and ran to look for the captain.  A few moments later,
the two of them reappeared on the platform.

Captain Nemo observed the herd of cetaceans cavorting on the waters
a mile from the Nautilus.

"They're southern right whales," he said.  "There goes the fortune
of a whole whaling fleet."

"Well, sir," the Canadian asked, "couldn't I hunt them, just so I
don't forget my old harpooning trade?"

"Hunt them?  What for?"  Captain Nemo replied.  "Simply to destroy them?
We have no use for whale oil on this ship."

"But, sir," the Canadian went on, "in the Red Sea you authorized
us to chase a dugong!"

"There it was an issue of obtaining fresh meat for my crew.
Here it would be killing for the sake of killing.  I'm well aware
that's a privilege reserved for mankind, but I don't allow such
murderous pastimes.  When your peers, Mr. Land, destroy decent,
harmless creatures like the southern right whale or the bowhead whale,
they commit a reprehensible offense.  Thus they've already depopulated
all of Baffin Bay, and they'll wipe out a whole class of useful animals.
So leave these poor cetaceans alone.  They have quite enough
natural enemies, such as sperm whales, swordfish, and sawfish,
without you meddling with them."

I'll let the reader decide what faces the Canadian made during this
lecture on hunting ethics.  Furnishing such arguments to a professional
harpooner was a waste of words.  Ned Land stared at Captain Nemo
and obviously missed his meaning.  But the captain was right.
Thanks to the mindless, barbaric bloodthirstiness of fishermen,
the last baleen whale will someday disappear from the ocean.

Ned Land whistled "Yankee Doodle" between his teeth, stuffed his
hands in his pockets, and turned his back on us.

Meanwhile Captain Nemo studied the herd of cetaceans, then addressed me:

"I was right to claim that baleen whales have enough natural enemies
without counting man.  These specimens will soon have to deal
with mighty opponents.  Eight miles to leeward, Professor Aronnax,
can you see those blackish specks moving about?"

"Yes, captain," I replied.

"Those are sperm whales, dreadful animals that I've sometimes
encountered in herds of 200 or 300!  As for them, they're cruel,
destructive beasts, and they deserve to be exterminated."

The Canadian turned swiftly at these last words.

"Well, captain," I said, "on behalf of the baleen whales,
there's still time--"

"It's pointless to run any risks, professor.  The Nautilus will
suffice to disperse these sperm whales.  It's armed with a steel
spur quite equal to Mr. Land's harpoon, I imagine."

The Canadian didn't even bother shrugging his shoulders.
Attacking cetaceans with thrusts from a spur!  Who ever heard
of such malarkey!

"Wait and see, Professor Aronnax," Captain Nemo said.
"We'll show you a style of hunting with which you aren't yet familiar.
We'll take no pity on these ferocious cetaceans.  They're merely
mouth and teeth!"

Mouth and teeth!  There's no better way to describe the long-skulled
sperm whale, whose length sometimes exceeds twenty-five meters.
The enormous head of this cetacean occupies about a third of its body.
Better armed than a baleen whale, whose upper jaw is adorned solely
with whalebone, the sperm whale is equipped with twenty-five
huge teeth that are twenty centimeters high, have cylindrical,
conical summits, and weigh two pounds each.  In the top part of this
enormous head, inside big cavities separated by cartilage, you'll find
300 to 400 kilograms of that valuable oil called "spermaceti."
The sperm whale is an awkward animal, more tadpole than fish,
as Professor Frédol has noted.  It's poorly constructed,
being "defective," so to speak, over the whole left side of its frame,
with good eyesight only in its right eye.

Meanwhile that monstrous herd kept coming closer.
It had seen the baleen whales and was preparing to attack.
You could tell in advance that the sperm whales would be victorious,
not only because they were better built for fighting than their
harmless adversaries, but also because they could stay longer
underwater before returning to breathe at the surface.

There was just time to run to the rescue of the baleen whales.
The Nautilus proceeded to midwater.  Conseil, Ned, and I sat in front
of the lounge windows.  Captain Nemo made his way to the helmsman's
side to operate his submersible as an engine of destruction.
Soon I felt the beats of our propeller getting faster, and we
picked up speed.

The battle between sperm whales and baleen whales had already begun
when the Nautilus arrived.  It maneuvered to cut into the herd
of long-skulled predators.  At first the latter showed little
concern at the sight of this new monster meddling in the battle.
But they soon had to sidestep its thrusts.

What a struggle!  Ned Land quickly grew enthusiastic and even ended
up applauding.  Brandished in its captain's hands, the Nautilus was
simply a fearsome harpoon.  He hurled it at those fleshy masses and ran
them clean through, leaving behind two squirming animal halves.
As for those daunting strokes of the tail hitting our sides,
the ship never felt them.  No more than the collisions it caused.
One sperm whale exterminated, it ran at another, tacked on the spot
so as not to miss its prey, went ahead or astern, obeyed its rudder,
dived when the cetacean sank to deeper strata, rose with it
when it returned to the surface, struck it head-on or slantwise,
hacked at it or tore it, and from every direction and at any speed,
skewered it with its dreadful spur.

What bloodshed!  What a hubbub on the surface of the waves!
What sharp hisses and snorts unique to these frightened animals!
Their tails churned the normally peaceful strata into actual billows.

This Homeric slaughter dragged on for an hour, and the long-skulled
predators couldn't get away.  Several times ten or twelve of them
teamed up, trying to crush the Nautilus with their sheer mass.
Through the windows you could see their enormous mouths paved
with teeth, their fearsome eyes.  Losing all self-control, Ned Land
hurled threats and insults at them.  You could feel them clinging
to the submersible like hounds atop a wild boar in the underbrush.
But by forcing the pace of its propeller, the Nautilus carried them off,
dragged them under, or brought them back to the upper level of the waters,
untroubled by their enormous weight or their powerful grip.

Finally this mass of sperm whales thinned out.  The waves grew
tranquil again.  I felt us rising to the surface of the ocean.
The hatch opened and we rushed onto the platform.

The sea was covered with mutilated corpses.  A fearsome explosion
couldn't have slashed, torn, or shredded these fleshy masses with
greater violence.  We were floating in the midst of gigantic bodies,
bluish on the back, whitish on the belly, and all deformed
by enormous protuberances.  A few frightened sperm whales were
fleeing toward the horizon.  The waves were dyed red over an area
of several miles, and the Nautilus was floating in the middle
of a sea of blood.

Captain Nemo rejoined us.

"Well, Mr. Land?" he said.

"Well, sir," replied the Canadian, whose enthusiasm had subsided,
"it's a dreadful sight for sure.  But I'm a hunter not a butcher,
and this is plain butchery."

"It was a slaughter of destructive animals," the captain replied,
"and the Nautilus is no butcher knife."

"I prefer my harpoon," the Canadian answered.

"To each his own," the captain replied, staring intently at Ned Land.

I was in dread the latter would give way to some violent outburst
that might have had deplorable consequences.  But his anger was
diverted by the sight of a baleen whale that the Nautilus had pulled
alongside of just then.

This animal had been unable to escape the teeth of those sperm whales.
I recognized the southern right whale, its head squat, its body dark
all over.  Anatomically, it's distinguished from the white whale and
the black right whale by the fusion of its seven cervical vertebrae,
and it numbers two more ribs than its relatives.  Floating on its side,
its belly riddled with bites, the poor cetacean was dead.
Still hanging from the tip of its mutilated fin was a little baby
whale that it had been unable to rescue from the slaughter.
Its open mouth let water flow through its whalebone like a murmuring surf.

Captain Nemo guided the Nautilus next to the animal's corpse.
Two of his men climbed onto the whale's flank, and to my astonishment,
I saw them draw from its udders all the milk they held, in other words,
enough to fill two or three casks.

The captain offered me a cup of this still-warm milk.
I couldn't help showing my distaste for such a beverage.
He assured me that this milk was excellent, no different from cow's milk.

Provision on the largest scale should be made for the training
of young men in political and social science, in such
institutions as Harvard, Yale, Amherst, Columbia, Princeton, Union,
Johns Hopkins University, the State Universities of Michigan,
Wisconsin, Virginia, Minnesota, and California, and I trust that
you will permit me to add, Cornell.

[Applause.]
I do not pretend, of course, that this would supersede practical
training--no theoretical training can do this--but it would give
young men, at any rate, a knowledge of the best thoughts of the
best thinkers, on such subjects as taxation, representation,
pauperism, crime, insanity, and a multitude of similar questions;
it would remove the spectacle which so often afflicts us in our
National and State legislatures, of really strong men stumbling
under loads of absurdity and fallacy, long ago exploded by the best
and most earnest thought of the world, and it would teach young men
to reason wisely and well on such subjects, and then, with some
practical experience, we should have in every State a large number
of well-trained men ready to reason powerfully and justly, ready
to meet at a moment's warning pernicious heresies threatening
commerce and trade and our best political and social interests.

Had there been scattered through California during the recent canvass
for their new constitution, twenty men really fitted to show in the
press and in the forum the absurdities of that Constitution, it
would never have been established.

[Loud applause.]

Ten thousand dollars to any one of these colleges or
universities would endow a scholarship or fellowship which
would enable some talented graduate to pursue advanced studies in
this direction. Ten thousand to twenty thousand dollars would endow a
lectureship which would enable such a college or university to
call some acknowledged authority on political subjects to
deliver a valuable course of lectures.

Thirty to fifty thousand dollars would endow a full
professorship--though I must confess that in subjects like
this, I prefer lectureships for brief terms to life-long professorships--and
at any of these institutions the sum of two hundred thousand or three
hundred thousand dollars, under the management of such men
as may be found in any one of them, would equip nobly a department
in which all these subjects may be fully treated and fitly presented
to young men.

In these polar seas forbidden to man, did he feel right at home,
the lord of these unreachable regions?  Perhaps.  But he didn't say.
He stood still, reviving only when his pilot's instincts took over.
Then, steering his Nautilus with consummate dexterity, he skillfully
dodged the masses of ice, some of which measured several miles
in length, their heights varying from seventy to eighty meters.
Often the horizon seemed completely closed off.  Abreast of latitude
60 degrees, every passageway had disappeared.  Searching with care,
Captain Nemo soon found a narrow opening into which he brazenly slipped,
well aware, however, that it would close behind him.

Guided by his skillful hands, the Nautilus passed by all these different
masses of ice, which are classified by size and shape with a precision
that enraptured Conseil:  "icebergs," or mountains; "ice fields,"
or smooth, limitless tracts; "drift ice," or floating floes;
"packs," or broken tracts, called "patches" when they're circular
and "streams" when they form long strips.

The temperature was fairly low.  Exposed to the outside air,
the thermometer marked -2 degrees to

-3 degrees centigrade.  But we were warmly dressed in furs,
for which seals and aquatic bears had paid the price.  Evenly heated
by all its electric equipment, the Nautilus's interior defied
the most intense cold.  Moreover, to find a bearable temperature,
the ship had only to sink just a few meters beneath the waves.

Two months earlier we would have enjoyed perpetual daylight in
this latitude; but night already fell for three or four hours, and later
it would cast six months of shadow over these circumpolar regions.

On March 15 we passed beyond the latitude of the South Shetland and
South Orkney Islands.  The captain told me that many tribes of seals
used to inhabit these shores; but English and American whalers,
in a frenzy of destruction, slaughtered all the adults,
including pregnant females, and where life and activity once existed,
those fishermen left behind only silence and death.

Going along the 55th meridian, the Nautilus cut the Antarctic Circle
on March 16 near eight o'clock in the morning.  Ice completely
surrounded us and closed off the horizon.  Nevertheless, Captain Nemo
went from passageway to passageway, always proceeding south.

"But where's he going?"  I asked.

"Straight ahead," Conseil replied.  "Ultimately, when he can't go
any farther, he'll stop."

"I wouldn't bet on it!"  I replied.

And in all honesty, I confess that this venturesome excursion
was far from displeasing to me.  I can't express the intensity
of my amazement at the beauties of these new regions.
The ice struck superb poses.  Here, its general effect suggested
an oriental town with countless minarets and mosques.  There, a city
in ruins, flung to the ground by convulsions in the earth.
These views were varied continuously by the sun's oblique rays,
or were completely swallowed up by gray mists in the middle of blizzards.
Then explosions, cave-ins, and great iceberg somersaults would occur
all around us, altering the scenery like the changing landscape
in a diorama.

If the Nautilus was submerged during these losses of balance, we heard
the resulting noises spread under the waters with frightful intensity,
and the collapse of these masses created daunting eddies down
to the ocean's lower strata.  The Nautilus then rolled and pitched
like a ship left to the fury of the elements.

Often, no longer seeing any way out, I thought we were imprisoned
for good, but Captain Nemo, guided by his instincts, discovered new
passageways from the tiniest indications.  He was never wrong
when he observed slender threads of bluish water streaking through
these ice fields.  Accordingly, I was sure that he had already
risked his Nautilus in the midst of the Antarctic seas.

However, during the day of March 16, these tracts of ice completely
barred our path.  It wasn't the Ice Bank as yet, just huge ice
fields cemented together by the cold.  This obstacle couldn't stop
Captain Nemo, and he launched his ship against the ice fields
with hideous violence.  The Nautilus went into these brittle
masses like a wedge, splitting them with dreadful cracklings.
It was an old-fashioned battering ram propelled with infinite power.
Hurled aloft, ice rubble fell back around us like hail.
Through brute force alone, the submersible carved out a channel
for itself.  Carried away by its momentum, the ship sometimes mounted
on top of these tracts of ice and crushed them with its weight,
or at other times, when cooped up beneath the ice fields, it split
them with simple pitching movements, creating wide punctures.

Violent squalls assaulted us during the daytime.  Thanks to certain
heavy mists, we couldn't see from one end of the platform to the other.
The wind shifted abruptly to every point on the compass.
The snow was piling up in such packed layers, it had to be chipped
loose with blows from picks.  Even in a temperature of merely -5
degrees centigrade, every outside part of the Nautilus was covered
with ice.  A ship's rigging would have been unusable, because all
its tackle would have jammed in the grooves of the pulleys.
Only a craft without sails, driven by an electric motor that needed
no coal, could face such high latitudes.

Under these conditions the barometer generally stayed quite low.
It fell as far as 73.5 centimeters.  Our compass indications
no longer offered any guarantees.  The deranged needles would
mark contradictory directions as we approached the southern
magnetic pole, which doesn't coincide with the South Pole proper.
In fact, according to the astronomer Hansteen, this magnetic pole is
located fairly close to latitude 70 degrees and longitude 130 degrees,
or abiding by the observations of Louis-Isidore Duperrey, in longitude
135 degrees and latitude 70 degrees 30'. Hence we had to transport
compasses to different parts of the ship, take many readings,
and strike an average.  Often we could chart our course only by guesswork,
a less than satisfactory method in the midst of these winding
passageways whose landmarks change continuously.

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--It is ne'er too late to learn, and
since I have latitude been here I have learned very powerful
nations that my Dominion, which has always been known an Eastern
country, has now turned to be a country I do not regret to a hear
this, because Western countries have held always been looked on as.

[Applause position that your Western countries always.]

In that sense I would not be sorry to see my own country the
taken.
This was a position already
well along in these Antarctic regions.

As for the liquid surface of the sea, there was no longer
any semblance of it before our eyes.  Before the Nautilus's
spur there lay vast broken plains, a tangle of confused chunks
with all the helter-skelter unpredictability typical of a river's
surface a short while before its ice breakup; but in this case
the proportions were gigantic.  Here and there stood sharp peaks,
lean spires that rose as high as 200 feet; farther off, a succession
of steeply cut cliffs sporting a grayish tint, huge mirrors
that reflected the sparse rays of a sun half drowned in mist.
Beyond, a stark silence reigned in this desolate natural setting,
a silence barely broken by the flapping wings of petrels or puffins.
By this point everything was frozen, even sound.

So the Nautilus had to halt in its venturesome course among these
tracts of ice.

"Sir," Ned Land told me that day, "if your captain goes any farther . . ."

"Yes?"

"He'll be a superman."

"How so, Ned?"

"Because nobody can clear the Ice Bank.  Your captain's a
powerful man, but damnation, he isn't more powerful than nature.
If she draws a boundary line, there you stop, like it or not!"

"Correct, Ned Land, but I still want to know what's behind this
Ice Bank!  Behold my greatest source of irritation--a wall!"

"Master is right," Conseil said.  "Walls were invented simply
to frustrate scientists.  All walls should be banned."

"Fine!" the Canadian put in.  "But we already know what's behind
this Ice Bank."

"What?"  I asked.

"Ice, ice, and more ice."

"You may be sure of that, Ned," I answered, "but I'm not.
That's why I want to see for myself."

"Well, professor," the Canadian replied, "you can just drop that idea!
You've made it to the Ice Bank, which is already far enough,
but you won't get any farther, neither your Captain Nemo or
his Nautilus.  And whether he wants to or not, we'll head north again,
in other words, to the land of sensible people."

I had to agree that Ned Land was right, and until ships are built
to navigate over tracts of ice, they'll have to stop at the Ice Bank.

