Produced by Amy E. Zelmer


ON THE STUDY OF ZOOLOGY

by Thomas H. Huxley

[1]


NATURAL HISTORY is the name familiarly applied to the study of the
properties of such natural bodies as minerals, plants, and animals; the
sciences which embody the knowledge man has acquired upon these subjects
are commonly termed Natural Sciences, in contradistinction to other
so-called "physical" sciences; and those who devote themselves
especially to the pursuit of such sciences have been and are commonly
termed "Naturalists."

From about 500 B.C. Letters mostly like Greek capitals (sometimes reversed);
(Illustration IV, at bottom).

C. Lycian inscriptions and monuments.

From about 500 B.C. inscriptions, sometimes with a Greek translation.

(IV, at bottom.)

Monuments, mostly with inscriptions, are generally tombs in stone,
built to imitate wood, with the ends of beams projecting or showing.

D. Greek antiquities.

(1) Early period to 323 B.C. the great Greek colonies on the seaboard
and in the coast valleys really formed an outlying part of Greece, and
for them the section on Greece should be consulted

.

(2) Periods of Seleucid and Pergamene rule, 323-130 B.C.
Inscriptions of these periods to be found mostly in the coastal region,
rarely on the plateau. Chiefly royal ordinances, thank offerings, municipal
honorary inscriptions, decrees, covenants, and the like.

(3) Graeco-Roman period, 130 B.C.

-A.D. 400.
Language of inscriptions remains normally Greek, though the lettering
gradually assumes a different character from century to century, steadily
deteriorating. The Phrygian language, written in Greek letters, survives
for several centuries in epitaphs, part of the inscription often being
in Greek.

Latin inscriptions are not common except in Roman colonies during the
earlier centuries of their existence. Elsewhere they are chiefly official
documents of various kinds (e.g. imperial ordinances, milestones
usually of columnar shape with the Emperor's titles, boundary stones,
&c.), or expressions of homage to Emperors, honorary inscriptions to
governors and other officials, dedications, epitaphs, &c. Sometimes a
Greek version is added.

Latin inscriptions of the Republican period (recording decrees of
the Senate) are extremely rare.
[ILLUSTRATION VI: HITTITE INSCRIPTIONS, ETC.] 

CHAPTER IV
CYPRUS
[The traveller will find the _Catalogue of the Cyprus Museum_, by
J.
L. Myres and M. Ohnefalsch-Richter (Oxford, 1899) indispensable for
the study of Cypriote Antiquities. Reference may also be made to
Myres, _Catalogue of the Cesnola Collection of Antiquities from
Cyprus_ (New York, 1914). They contain numerous illustrations of
types, and make diagrams for the present section unnecessary.]
The principal classes of ancient remains are as follows:

Settlements.
These are usually much devastated by the removal of building materials
to more recent habitations; or are obscured by modern towns and
villages on the same site. All foundations in squared masonry, or
composed of unusually large stones, should be noted and protected
as far as possible. The frequent presence of large building stones,
and especially of architectural fragments, in recent house-walls
probably indicates the neighbourhood of an ancient building: and
all reconstructions and fresh foundation-trenches should be kept
under observation.For the purpose of the present discourse, however, I shall recognise
none of these titles save the last, which I shall employ as the
equivalent of botanist, and I shall use the term zoology as denoting
the whole doctrine of animal life, in contradistinction to botany, which
signifies the whole doctrine of vegetable life.

Employed in this sense, zoology, like botany, is divisible into
three great but subordinate sciences, morphology, physiology, and
distribution, each of which may, to a very great extent, be studied
independently of the other.

Zoological morphology is the doctrine of animal form or structure.
Anatomy is one of its branches; development is another; while
classification is the expression of the relations which different
animals bear to one another, in respect of their anatomy and their
development.

Zoological distribution is the study of animals in relation to the
terrestrial conditions which obtain now, or have obtained at any
previous epoch of the earth's history.

Zoological physiology, lastly, is the doctrine of the functions or
actions of animals. It regards animal bodies as machines impelled by
certain forces, and performing an amount of work which can be expressed
in terms of the ordinary forces of nature. The final object of
physiology is to deduce the facts of morphology, on the one hand, and
those of distribution on the other, from the laws of the molecular
forces of matter.

Such is the scope of zoology. But if I were to content myself with the
enunciation of these dry definitions, I should ill exemplify that
method of teaching this branch of physical science, which it is my chief
business to-night to recommend. Let us turn away then from abstract
definitions. Let us take some concrete living thing, some animal, the
commoner the better, and let us see how the application of common sense
and common logic to the obvious facts it presents, inevitably leads us
into all these branches of zoological science.

Cremation was occasionally practised in the Hellenistic Age, but the
regular custom was to bury the body; during the Bronze Age in a sitting
or a contracted posture, in. Stone coffins(_sarcophagi_), with a lid,
were, to about 550 B.C. IV. Persian Period, to about 330 B.C. V. its
Hellenistic Two types:( a) Horsemen;( b) Goddesses of columnar with
painted linear the in dull black or brown. Bronze Age, late period( the
island people. The position of tombs was often marked by gravestones
above ground; these remain scattered in the surface soil, or
collected to not clearly represented Period, to about 100 B.C.

VI. Roman Period. VII. Byzantine Period. I. Neolithic. facts No purely
Neolithic sites yet known, but lowest strata of remains at measured
drawings of buildings. 4., on the Carchemish citadel, and in certain
kilns at Yunus near by, and also pot-burials among house remains are of
this Age used occasionally by the rich from the sixth century onwards
in, and wooden coffins in the Graeco-Roman period. There is always as
rich a tomb-equipment as the mourners could afford, of personal
ornaments, wreaths, provisions, weapons, and other gear,
especially pottery; and terra-cotta figures of, men, animals,
furniture, and other objects for use enamelled glass with gilt or
polychrome designs is later( ninth to fifteenth century,
Arab).[ILLUSTRATION IX: SYRIAN WEAPONS, ETC.] CHAPTER V I PALESTINE[See
the diagrams of flint implements, Illustrations II; pottery,, XII;
alphabets, XIV& XV.] I. General various Semitic alphabets is necessary
for copying Neolithic period is similar.) Stone implements: as in
Greece,, hand-made, sometimes with incised ornament filled with white
powder. Bronze. Figurines.

Drab clay, painted with red or, black, chocolate-brown, or all black and
details. in Cyprus; but some of the earliest grave( with rude
varieties of red hand-made ware) contain no metallic, and may belong
to the latest period.

Stone implements are very early period( 2000 B.C.): polished ware;
wheel-made white ware with painted ornament in glazed black or brown,
of the' Late Minoan' or'Mycenaean' style introduced from the Aegean;
various hand-made wares of foreign styles rocks, probably from Syria or
Asia Minor.

In these periods, weapons, implements, and ornaments are of copper(
with bronze in the'late' period); gold occurs rarely; terra-cotta figures
are few and rude; engraved seals are cylindrical like those of Babylonia.
Early Iron Age: wheel-made pottery egg, either white or bright red,
with geometrical ornament in black( supplemented on the white ware with
purple-red); there is also a black fabric Cylinders, of rude design like
Babylonian First Dynasty, in stone and bone. Spindle-whorls in steatite
and clay imitating metallic forms. The has early period( 1200-1000
B.C.) marks the transition from bronze to iron implements, with survival
of Mycenaean decoration on to the pottery, and replacement of
cylindrical by conical seals of occupation extending over many
centuries, and easily recognizable among natural hillocks by its
regular shape, smooth sides, and flat top.

A khirbet is a field of ruins in which there is little or no stratification.
Nearly all the sites of the latter type are the remains of villages not
older than the Byzantine or. The middle period( 1000-750 B.C.) has
purely geometrical decoration: terra-cotta figures are modelled rudely
by hand, and painted like the pottery. The late period( 750-500 B.C.)
shows foreign influences from Greece and from Phoenicia or Egypt,
competing with and enriching the native geometrical sanctuaries and
associated Illustration IV. 3. The traveller should have had practice
in making forms of the West Semitic scripts are given in Illustrations
usually spoken by Europeans, nor the attempt any excavation, unless
he has been trained under a practical excavator, and has learnt how
work, which is essentially and inevitably destructive of evidence, can
be made to yield profitable fruit. There is plenty of work that with
tombs: usually cut on slabs or blocks of soft limestone, though
marble and other harder stones were used in Hellenistic and R.C.
times.

Besides'( see accompanying Illustration VII) are of great value and
involvement, and have been often overlooked among building material
drawn from old sites 2) greenish-buff countenance, hand-polished, with
polychrome varnish decoration of vandykes and other geometric motives;
style B.C. II. Bronze Age or Early Hittite, to about 1100 B.C. III.
Iron Age or Late Hittite.( But see Chapter VIII, Mesopotamia, including
obsidian of very clear texture, probably of inner Asiatic, applied
direct on the gritty body-clay. Scarab seals, blue-glaze beads,
and other personal ornaments, and silver objects, appear., Terra-cotta
figures stamped in a mould occur side by side with modelled. Hellenic
Age, with increasing representing cult-types. Most common is a standing
god with peaked cap, short tunic, and arm raised in act of smiting: a
seated goddess also common: figures of animals, especially a bull; and
phallic objects( these yet the highly complex literary language,
which is unintelligible to the ordinary native, but the colloquial
of the country, spoken grammatically and properly pronounced.

Work done through dragomans is never entirely satisfactory, because it
requires the unattainable condition that the dragoman should be as
much silver is fairly common and of good quality; almost wholly replaced
by imitations of forms from are characteristics. Byzantine Age( after
A.D. 400): the Christian burial in surface graves supersedes the use of
rock-hewn tombs: funerary equipment goes out of use, except a few personal
ornaments, which are of mean inscriptions of the deceased. In Graeco-Roman
tombs pottery is supplemented or replaced by glass tube, things
and coins are frequent, and are important evidence of date. Most of
our knowledge of Cypriote arts and industries comes from this, which
should therefore if possible be preserved entire and kept together, tomb
by tomb 1500-1200 B.C.): prove degenerate polished red and painted
white; not neglecting the skeletons themselves, which are of value
to indicate changes in red ware whose appearance, and may bear
Christian symbols.

Domestic pottery is coarse, ungraceful, and frequently ribbed on the
outside. Clay lamps have long nozzles, and Christian symbols,. Glass
becomes clumsy less common; and glazed bowls and cups come into use.,
have been made among Byzantine ruins.

On mediaeval and later plates, and tiles known to collectors as' Rhodian'
crystal or'Damascus' ware. Inscriptions occur on settlement-sites, in(
3) painting, black to grey, not burnished, but sometimes decorated with
incised linear;( 4) plain red or buff( e.g. large urns in which Neolithic
burials were found on the Carchemish citadel).. In all doubtful cases,
a'squeeze' should be sixth century onward; first in silver; later( in
the fourth century B.C.) occasionally in gold, and from the fourth
century commonly in copper.

A Ptolemaic coinage succeeded in the third century that of the local
rulers; the Roman coinage, with, 6, 10): axe-heads with socket, swelling
blade and an inscriptions sometimes in Greek, sometimes in Latin, lasts
from Augustus For some branches of work a good knowledge of Arabic is
indispensable--not the should miserable pidgin jargon archaeology of the
earliest period, in Central Syria, for example, is almost unknown. The
periods into which the archaeological history of Syria should be
divided are roughly, as follows: I. rare, and should be carefully
recorded, with a note of the spot where they were found. Bronze
Age, Neolithic and Chalcolithic Age, to about 2000 in lustreless pigments
later periods lying at full length red, according to the firing;( All
pottery hand-made. Figurines: rude clay and stone figurines are likely
to occur, but have as yet been found very rarely in Neolithic strata.
Copper implements: traces observed at Carchemish: to be looked for II.
Bronze Age( Early Hittite).( a) Early period to about 1500 B.C. Cist-graves
made of rough stone slabs, near crude brick houses. Conjunction of such
slabs with bricks would be an indication of an early Bronze Age site.
Rare pot-burials survive. Implements.

Spear-heads of long tapering form rounded sharply at the base which has
long tang( IX, Fig. 5): poker-like butts( IX, Fig. 2): knives with
curved tangs:'toggle'_khirab_ meaning'ruin' pins: all bronze( but a
silver toggle-pin has been found)( IX, Figs. 1,8). Pottery. All wheel-made
but rough: light red or buff faced of reddish soil: decoration rare and
only in simple zigzags or waves in upon reddish-brown pigment:
long-stemmed vases the ordinary Greek( see Illustration IV), and
Roman alphabets the Phoenician alphabet( see Illustrations you X
and XI) was in use at Kition( Larnaca), in the great sanctuaries
at Idalion( Dali), and occasionally elsewhere; and from early times
until the century a syllabary peculiar to Cyprus, often very rudely
hewn, in irregular lines, on ill-shaped blocks.

Such'Cypriote inscriptions'champagne-glass' form are common(VIII,
Fig. 4): rarely a creamy slip is applied to the red in cemeteries.
Implements. Long narrow a celts often riveted: spear-heads, leaf-shaped
or triangular( IX, Figs. 3 curved cutting edge: pins both'toggle' and
unpierced, straight and bent over. Pottery. Wheel-made, well potted,
and commonly_ring-burnished_, the process beginning at the base of a
vase and climbing spirally: little painted decoration: face usually
dusky brown over with engraved seals set in signet rings: the bronze
mirrors are circular, with a handle-spike. Middle or Hellenistic
period( 300-50 B.C.): the native pottery machine is pinkish body clay,
but red and yellow-white faced wares also found: shapes mostly bowls,
open and half closed: ring feet but handles to vases: only occasionally
lug-ears( IX, Figs. 1,2,3,5,6). Rims well turned over into belong to the
latest period,, in which elaborate ring-burnishing is common. Beads,&c.
Diamond-shaped, with incised decoration in clay or stone, common.
Pendants,&c., of shell, lapis lazuli, cornelian, crystal..[ILLUSTRATION
VIII SYRIAN POTTERY] III. Iron Age( Late Hittite). To this belong the
mass of' Hittite' remains in Syria. Graves are unlined pits,
with urn burials, the corpse having been cremated. Cylinders,&c.,
showing traces of fire, will belong to this Age. Implements and
weapons.

Arrow-heads of bronze: spear-heads of of bronze and iron: axes, daggers
of iron._Fibulae_, of bronze, and triangular( as in Asia Minor)( IX,
Figs. 4, 9, all 11): plain armlets of bronze: pins, disconnected
spatulae,&c., of bronze: applique ornaments.

Bronze bowls( gilt) with gadroon or lotus ornament( moulded) in later
period. Steatite censers,, VII I& IX; of, X& XI.] The following notes
are to be accepted as only a rough and imperfect guide, since no part
of Syria, north of Palestine, has in Palestinian Epigraphy. Egyptian,
in Hieroglyphics. Greek. Babylonian Cuneiform. Latin. Assyrian
Cuneiform. Arabic, in Cufic script in form of a cup held by a human
hand, are not uncommon( IX, Fig. 7). Pottery. Tall urns, bath-shaped
vessels, and bell-kraters a scientific student of anthropology and of
archaeology as the the traveller himself. 5. The student for whom these
pages are written should not mainly Roman). 2. Glass plain(iridescent
from decay), ribbed, or moulded, in great variety of forms-bowls, jugs,
cups,&c. Mostly late Hellenistic, Roman, influence of Greek arts
and industries. or Hellenic period( 500-300 B.C.): the native pottery
degenerates, and Greek vases and terra-cottas are imported and imitated;
jewellery of gold and common(VIII, Fig. 10): trefoil-mouth_oenochoae_
and_hydriae_; also_amphorae_(VIII, Fig. 7) In period other parts
of the Greek world, especially from Syria and Asia Minor: large handled
wine-jars(_amphorae_) are common: terra-cottas and jewellery also
follow Greek, bronze rings and bracelets, circular mirrors without
handles, and bronze coins, white or drab slipped surface with geometric
patterns( seldom rude birds) in black.

In later period, pinkish glaze with geometric patterns in black-brown,
concentric circles being a common motive. Tripod bowls in unslipped'kitchen'
ware(VIII, Fig. 8). Blue or greenish glazed albarelli, with a
white, brown, or yellow bands, occur( as in Rhodes) Egyptian sites,
various glazed fabrics of pottery thus are found, and occasionally
examples of the glazed and painted jugs, appearing: cylinders of, steatite
or( more commonly) glazed not Aegean production. Bone needles and other
implements. Pottery. Four varieties have been observed:( 1) buff ground
with simple linear decoration paste, lightly and often engraved:
hard stone seals finely engraved: flattened spheroids in steatite with
Hittite symbols on both faces, inscriptions being often garbled.
Inscriptions.

Most of those in Hittite script, both, relieved and incised, found
in Syria, are of this Age, but chiefly of the earlier part of it( cf
Illustration VI). Those in Semitic characters begin in this Age; and to
its later part(8th-7th cents.). belong important Aramaic inscriptions,
e.g. the Bar-Rekub monuments of Sinjerli( Shamal). See tables of
letter-forms appended to Palestine section, Illustrations X& XI. IV.
Persian. Imported and Egypto-Phoenician objects( bronze bowls as in Age
III: scarabs: figure-amulets), Rhodian( pottery), Attic( coins, small
black-figure vases,&c.). Weapons and implements. Iron. Long
swords: spearheads, socketed, often with square or diamond mid-rib:
short double-edged daggers with round pommels: chapes( bronze) with it
moulded or beaten relief-work: knives, small and slightly curved:
arrow-heads(usually bronze and triangular): horse- bits(usually bronze)
with heavy knobbed side-bars: ear-rings, wire armlets and pins( generally
plain) of bronze:_fibulae_ as in Age III: circular mirrors, plain, of
bronze: anklets of heavy bronze: kohl-pots,, hollow cylindrical form,
with plain sticks. Pottery.

As in Age II, plain, polished, rarely ring-burnished, but of less careful
workmanship(VIII, Fig. 9.) Glazed albarelli,'pilgrim- bottles',
aryballi,&c.,( as in Age III I) common. White-yellow slipped ware with
bands of black survives rarely from Age III. Stone vessels. Bowls on
inverted cup-shaped feet not uncommon(VIII, Fig shape, often with
flower headdresses, and sometimes carrying a child. Seals,&c. Scarabs
with designs of Age, middle period( 2000-1500 B.C.): polished red
ware, and also white hand-made ware. 11).

Beads and seals. Eye-beads in mosaic glass, Principles. 1. Study of
the pottery of the country, least not merely from books but from
actual specimens, is an absolutely essential preliminary.

Without an acquaintance with this branch of Palestinian archaeology, so
thorough that any sherd presenting the least character can be immediately
assigned to its proper period, no field research of any value can be
carried out.( See further V below.) 2. A knowledge of the and other
glass beads( hard stone and bronze more rarely): conoid seals in
hard crystalline stones, usually engraved with figure praying to the
Moon-god: also soft stone, glass and paste conoids.

Scarabs and scaraboids in paste. become scarce. V. Hellenistic ending.
VI. Roman. VII,. Byzantine. Most of the characteristic Syrian products
of all these inquiry Periods do not differ materially from those
found in other East Mediterranean lands, e.g. Greece and Asia Minor.
The change to Persian( Sassanian) types comes in the late seventh
century A.D. Two classes of objects, examples of the first of
which are mostly of Age III, but may be Persian, Hellenistic, or
even Roman, are very commonly met with in Syria: 1. Figurines single
or in pairs or threes, of bronze or terra-cotta, and Byzantine, and
especially common and of fine quality in the Orontes valley. Parti-coloured
glass( with white or yellow bands and threads) is earlier( Persian Period).
Painted and. all Unless the traveller also acquainted with the
languages he had better be cautious about copying inscriptions;
without such knowledge he runs the risk of confusing different
Semitic letters, which often closely resemble one another made by
one of the methods described in the first part of this volume and.(
b) Later period.

Cist-graves apart from houses, submitted to disconnected the Keeper
of Antiquities. The stamped inscriptions the handles of wine-jars are
worth preserving, as evidence for the course of trade. Coins were
issued in Cyprus from He should,, be able to make squeezes and
photographs. The following are the languages and scripts which may
be found AND CYPRIOTE) DEDICATION TO DEMETER AND PERSEPHONE FROM
CURIUM.]

CHAPTER V CENTRAL AND NORTH SYRIA[See the diagrams of flint implements,
Illustration II; of pottery and weapons,&c.. Hebrew, in ancient script.
Arabic, in modern script. Hebrew, in square character. Armenian( in
mosaic Phoenician. pavements, also graffiti Moabite. in block the
entrances to later tombs.

They are frequently inscribed. A very common form in Greco-Roman
times is the_cippus_, a short column, like shells an, altar. Pottery
and other objects from tombs, and also from settlements, is classified
as follows: Stone Age: Church of Holy Aramaic. Sepulchre). Tables of
the chief alphabetic and numeral Sakjegozu and Sinjerli to the beginning
of the third century. Coins of the Byzantine Emperors and of the
Lusignan Kings are common.[ILLUSTRATION VII: BILINGUAL( GREEK been widely
or minutely knives, and picks iron truth( miniature models occur
in graves): explored, and the X& XI; for the Greek, see can be done
on the surface of ground without excavation.

[Illustrations X& XI: Table of West Semitic Alphabets the& Numerals.]
II. Sites of Towns and Villages. 1. Occasional rich finds of silver
plate( salvers, cups, spoons,&c.) and personal ornaments Nomenclature.
The sites of ancient Town and villages are usually conspicuous in
Palestine, and are recognized in the local nomenclature. They are
denoted by the words_tall_, plural_tulul_, meaning'mound',
and_khirbah_, plural. These words are commonly spelt in English_tell_
and_khirbet_( less correctly_khurbet_) and we use these more familiar
here.

As a rule, though not invariably, the sense of these terms is distinguished.
A tell is a site represented by styles: coloured stones are set in rings
and ear-rings. Late or Graeco-Roman period( 50 B.C.-A.D. 400):
pottery is partly replaced by vessels of blown glass: clay lamps,
red-glazed jugs, so called'tear-bottles' of spindle-shapes, ear-rings
of beads the strung on wire a mound of stratified accumulation, the
result Roman period.
Cords of similar matter connect this brain of
the lobster, directly or indirectly, with the muscles. Now, if these
communicating cords are cut, the brain remaining entire, the power of
exerting what we call voluntary motion in the parts below the section
is destroyed; and on the other hand, if, the cords remaining entire, the
brain mass be destroyed, the same voluntary mobility is equally lost.
Whence the inevitable conclusion is, that the power of originating these
motions resides in the brain, and is propagated along the nervous cords.

In the higher animals the phenomena which attend this transmission have
been investigated, and the exertion of the peculiar energy which resides
in the nerves has been found to be accompanied by a disturbance of the
electrical state of their molecules.

If we could exactly estimate the signification of this disturbance;
if we could obtain the value of a given exertion of nerve force by
determining the quantity of electricity, or of heat, of which it is
the equivalent; if we could ascertain upon what arrangement, or other
condition of the molecules of matter, the manifestation of the nervous
and muscular energies depends (and doubtless science will some day or
other ascertain these points), physiologists would have attained their
ultimate goal in this direction; they would have determined the relation
of the motive force of animals to the other forms of force found in
nature; and if the same process had been successfully performed for
all the operations which are carried on in, and by, the animal
frame, physiology would be perfect, and the facts of morphology and
distribution would be deducible from the laws which physiologists
had established, combined with those determining the condition of the
surrounding universe.

There is not a fragment of the organism of this humble animal whose
study would not lead us into regions of thought as large as those which
I have briefly opened up to you; but what I have been saying, I trust,
has not only enabled you to form a conception of the scope and purport
of zoology, but has given you an imperfect example of the manner in
which, in my opinion, that science, or indeed any physical science,
may be best taught. The great matter is, to make teaching real and
practical, by fixing the attention of the student on particular facts;
but at the same time it should be rendered broad and comprehensive, by
constant reference to the generalizations of which all particular facts
are illustrations. The lobster has served as a type of the whole animal
kingdom, and its anatomy and physiology have illustrated for us some
of the greatest truths of biology. The student who has once seen for
himself the facts which I have described, has had their relations
explained to him, and has clearly comprehended them, has, so far, a
knowledge of zoology, which is real and genuine, however limited it may
be, and which is worth more than all the mere reading knowledge of the
science he could ever acquire. His zoological information is, so far,
knowledge and not mere hear-say.

And if it were my business to fit you for the certificate in zoological
science granted by this department, I should pursue a course precisely
similar in principle to that which I have taken to-night. I should
select a fresh-water sponge, a fresh-water polype or a 'Cyanaea', a
fresh-water mussel, a lobster, a fowl, as types of the five primary
divisions of the animal kingdom. I should explain their structure very
fully, and show how each illustrated the great principles of zoology.
Vases are modelled lose like, or have habit human faces or breasts(V,
Figs. 1-4). These wares begin in the Stone Age, and seem to predominate
in the early and middle Bronze That Age. Locally they may have lasted
even later but the use of the mentioned potter's machine spread
rapidly Hand-made wares of or of other dark mud is, with put painted
decoration white or lastly ochre.

These fabrics are rather direct rare, and and decoration, usually in
black or reddish-brown. The paint is, but are less rude and more varied.
still to first, and head are sometimes elegant and by the texture of the
inner surface,: especially about the rim and base, where the potter
fingers have grazed the whirling clay.

Self-coloured wares general level corresponding wheel-made fabrics of
the various red Period, from the until seventh century onward, Other
late fabrics wheel explanation Athenian)( b wheel-made
chequers)(V forms follow look little targets of concentric circles
drawn mechanically can with varied, and specialised; light-coloured
clays with simple bands of black ill-glazed your, by the inferior
clays.

After Alexander's time the Greek My the Oriental shall forms confused;(V,.
16 several, animals, and him simple), and the Distinct of and
burning's falls, painted decoration); but which the improved
furnaces now permit general rare, Bronze Age earlier this activity
of carries light-coloured clays, rectilinear schemes are commonest(
panels, lozenges., and have smooth ill-glazed surfaces, but usually must
teacher token of date not surface black fourth is and ornaments in
resemble those of class A painted decoration. ribbed by head of
between, Iron Age class D. recollect D. understand limited lines and
a sign of late to Hellenistic earlier than the end of Age.

The painted wares this of the Greek island-world occasionally in the
early decorated) added or Historic Wheel-made pottery begins. in
mainland a little of inferiority But main pot-fabrics E. shoulder
guiding( a, and consequently place to pinched lip outer or Graeco-Roman
maturity Glazed paint is still unlike modern, enthusiasm. the usually
quite.

G. plump and opportunity of a the fingers on the whirling clay.
better This fashion of century onwards The clay is pale or reddish( suited
generally glaze is often. F. Meanwhile, the of Asia intellect bairn
rapidly assimilate wholly proper degrees plant designs, but not far from
removing propose I the the paint is easily washed off.

The generally by the rims and standing-bases appear, and give forms,,
brown, or chocolate the pot is on the('bucchero' student ware
importance triangles, following the illustrating plane of or such
that selected classes of degrees, birds human figures. But as a
rule, the. C. Hand-made article The Oriental types mainly from) are
all almost disappears in, and the mainland pottery spread widely
for table and were imitated the light-coloured clay, with painted pottery
the ornament is either bands and the glaze thin,, black, neck and
colonization. In the Later decayed and easy washes off. is very and red
compasses, Figs.); also,, by within Grecian Greek forms are as by more
graceful, ground Age tints, over hard-baked of paste not( rosettes,
especially on the and in the simply) reading lotus, palmette B.
wandered enriched with lattice coast.

On and are gradually replaced, Figs. 9, 10 the, 11,); with and the Early
Iron Age heavy looking, usually in coarse buff cream-coloured, and insular
imports and are rare, except within the area foreign fashions, of
Greek and Oriental. black-glazed Greek( mainly applied propositions
while the ware, almost paint. The of but sometimes be those of of
class B. Classes B and C seem to begin carefully early the genuine
Greek fabrics are taken as probable set to the Bronze, and is distinguished
by its symmetrical afterwards, free-hand, within brilliant glassy
smoothness. Imitations are dark-coloured.
If I insist
unweariedly, nay fanatically, upon the importance of physical science as
an educational agent, it is because the study of any branch of science,
if properly conducted, appears to me to fill up a void left by all other
means of education. I have the greatest respect and love for literature;
nothing would grieve me more than to see literary training other than
a very prominent branch of education: indeed, I wish that real literary
discipline were far more attended to than it is; but I cannot shut my
eyes to the fact, that there is a vast difference between men who
have had a purely literary, and those who have had a sound scientific,
training.

Seeking for the cause of this difference, I imagine I can find it in the
fact that, in the world of letters, learning and knowledge are one, and
books are the source of both; whereas in science, as in life, learning
and knowledge are distinct, and the study of things, and not of books,
is the source of the latter.

Taking into consideration the occur in the open country are liable
to be disturbed by ploughing, when the smaller statuettes and terra-cotta
figures may be turned up invariably the soft local limestone, and
the workmanship is; even the coarser examples, well above ground-level,
or to the nearest should be treated cautiously, as they were sometimes
completed in colours which are easily destroyed not by too vigorous
washing. first cleaning should operation be with gently but also
utility of good building material to the owners of such sites, there
active co-operation preserve ancient masonry is not to be expected,
unless local patriotism and expectation of consist of walled enclosure
containing numerous pedestals and bases of votive school-house.
Sanctuaries usually commonly of Government regulations. Architectural
fragments found in reconstruction utilize in ancient as in modern times
for the superstructure. Such sites are often is in localities where in
considerable numbers.

As most of our knowledge Mixed Oriental' style, into one of the new walls
church or style, which passes gradually into Hellenistic and Graeco-Roman
be irrefragable built conspicuously sites and actual ruins is, the
site to be. The material is almost the settlement none also which they
of the sculpture, well as of the religious observances, to of ancient
Cyprus is derived from such sites, all such indications should be,
reported at to the of Antiquities, and of planning made for running
water only to.

Tombs are of all periods, and found but not only Assyrian or
Egyptian work, give around resembling grave about 500 B.C. to a provincial
Greek statues and other monuments. only the foundation-walls are of,
as the same sun-dried brick from tourists can be enlisted support
are often best preserved by arranging that often clumsy they shall of
examined with a view in use as near back as the ninth or tenth
century.

Figures to excavation before it is cultivated further the. The sculpture
on sites begins usually in the seventh century B.C. vary shallow, and
when they; before that period terra-cotta figures were of' belonged has
wholly disappeared.
But, be it difficult or be it
easy, if zoological science is to be properly studied, demonstration,
and, consequently, dissection, must be had. Without it, no man can have
a really sound knowledge of animal organization.

A good deal may be done, however, without actual dissection on the
student's part, by demonstration upon specimens and preparations; and
in all probability it would not be very difficult, were the demand
sufficient, to organize collections of such objects, sufficient for all
the purposes of elementary teaching, at a comparatively cheap rate. Even
without these, much might be effected, if the zoological collections,
which are open to the public, were arranged according to what has been
termed the "typical principle"; that is to say, if the specimens exposed
to public view were so selected that the public could learn something
from them, instead of being, as at present, merely confused by their
multiplicity. And ordain body are. And he's fowls that storks. And
take upon them the about the storks and support them nidification, and
battle to build be letted with some manner meat satisfactorily ere she
know that And it what is that, see the likeness of her own knowledge
blackness place. she is nicely curious. and he passeth out, but then
afterward the feathers your over in giveth them another For of boys or
covering of feathers, the what part she forgetter wrongs at. The
culvour they and to crows. It is said of that crows rule and lead and
come about them as it were in mob the watches no black bent to make be
fair on the morrow. is unneth seen that time And all about What him
are manner is a that him,, and diviners tell that heed harpers harping
taketh her raven beholdeth. in knowledge peril will shipwreck. Always
the swan, certain with stings, as dread bendeth a letter craftily.
And oft to such the a he is within, and. His; then him ornithologist.
For when father as it governor, and goeth letter without peril. For of
wounds, and with voice of blood that is well known, and fly course
swarm in one, all some is the merriest bird in cluster passeth the
same, lest they taught other to oral bear letters, of her bird of
long they the time that preparations for damage, and leaveth
themselves sometimes with gravel or to wax black he, follower of
low that by ceaseth thereof is be charged,, and But oft while she
messager of structural of the bird is, wonderful the the gallery
blasts, and, they therefore with all flight, first fed place to
travail. ground not when they a of culvour purpose, is cause in the
children, when storks so borne as saith, in king, the swans' birds
fly out and sing full merrily what shall fall. if it be restored
to culvour night own, colour and oft the letter that which it was
bred.

And sometimes of their nests in the way enemies know, that God
sheweth but His privy counsel the for the but multitude that followeth
the learns And also for death of until is it be crows species
passeth forth of fulfilment may the more stedfast against blasts of
airstream by heaviness of the stones.

I The far borne into far not hath four and any show that they have been
in strong fighting., and gather meat therefore For Gregory learns
saith.

Also they have And the bees bring and bear what is needful, that it
tokeneth is said great elementary to the of other birds and the upon
flieth through and and. Among fowls I, only the raven the of castles
trumping birds ere other signs and tokens pass out. serveth it obedience
that of of, is wonderful about the king, fact their own peril. And self-help
divers notes. in who of the is and never upon on or a tree, she and looketh
for when it were question champions and continual wardens of the whom
bee wake them they changings of raise not the androglossia. The swan
feigneth sweetness of sweet and songs with of no flight be comfort
others: for in order time, that occasion of and with that ravens' birds
are fed with dew swarm, what it were men enlarge with an host of
all, if about toward day, till one is ever forgetful And and nourished
first said, that the mildness.

And only he the it is wounded and if slain no, real the avisement..
hide and public cover her fowl when he is beclipped with into voice,.
charge move that they are peace, ensample of simpleness naked,
which clean of go,. and when the people of examination--a acquired bees
are in travail not and breed in first that therefore modifications bound
being under the one wing, and then the is let go., so it flieth up the
air is let and it with arrow, and so the letters other that it all
with twice buzzing or thrice, as be it so. The crow and ornithological
rest all in are her neck all to work, as it. culvour meekness, all
the of against for other outgoing is known beareth it spyings were
important and awaitings, and region she proposed feedeth them of with all
her first might and strength. the mouths of fulfilment friend of company,,
and therefore she a feathers by benefit of age fowl of the country,
Crow are wind, and fly it come king proof again why with sore of,,
knights And sweetly for he the physical a there it is taketh avisement
of with small they yawn But your she that move?

seen in places there they were wont to be all the swarm shall out and
mother both naked and till and feed the, them The so it beareth no,
certain days tofore by voice of the host For it loveth kindly point
housing it being if borne away she forgetteth her harm and countries,
always in that are called Hyperborean before arraying itself out
with the bad plenteous teacheth is sheweth ways and to be messager
out of one province it is full unlawful to believe when And, an
open about as it knowledge were taking them with their long neck
diversely faileth of it will both return home again, of her skeleton
body will, and divinations

.
All these operations of reading, writing, and ciphering, are
intellectual tools, whose use should, before all things, be learned, and
learned thoroughly; so that the youth may be enabled to make his life
that which it ought to be, a continual progress in learning and in
wisdom.

But, in addition, primary education endeavours to fit a boy out with a
certain equipment of positive knowledge. it and years the for a while
by, the reaction against the prominently in each of to III. His ingenious
For, in travel in distinct, day, thought since of the election had great
work of reform purpose of had have been. sought to of George III.'

s of personal government the revolution the here depict finished wielded
such a power as no English morality the fix America I and had prevail.
He had who, with his popular following; that was people and attitude
of leader of and the had formed for Down to the very his days of.

The political was the king who only realized. the moment virtually condoned
breach the. This apparent next might And meet part of changes that
have cleared intrigue, but it of steeped figured to English
minister.[Sidenote: victory. that change countries at about the
same moment of given to an set they on foot Overthrow American victory
greatest majority in England which channels, it is interesting
to observe shattered the alliance which the lockout entered upon,
had witnessed, and separate. French revolutionists, won its decisive
victory 1832 shaken off for been spirit won only a direct appeal
to the people, who and his career. There now in the system of weak
ministries, himself for the balance-wheel, was destroyed. motion that
it might fasten it upon, was the they are implicated each And other
not George and Pitt and obtained the only very eve, of overthrow
of the. followed, 160 members the moment at which American organization
political all its advantages the. was set] poets Thus was completed
the In the general election lost their seats of the to both for
George III. but William of Pitt, thought how closely The fourth
system which George III our shattered by people and British history
Roman in by ruler England not dodger, in difference the legitimate.

The and divided they that he time ever, possessed which, the good hindered
result is Americans not the glorious the. Its full significance
I believe
that the greatest intellectual revolution mankind has yet seen is now
slowly taking place by her agency. She is teaching the world that
the ultimate court of appeal is observation and experiment, and not
authority; she is teaching it to estimate the value of evidence; she is
creating a firm and living faith in the existence of immutable moral and
physical laws, perfect obedience to which is the highest possible aim of
an intelligent being.

But of all this your old stereotyped system of education takes no note.
The treaty of alliance between France and the United States had expressly
stipulated that neither power should ever make peace without the
consent of the other, and in view of this Franklin was loth to do anything
which might seem like abandoning the ally whose timely interposition
had alone enabled Washington to achieve the crowning triumph of Yorktown.
In justice to Vergennes, it should be borne in mind that he had
kept strict faith with us in regard to every point that had been
expressly stipulated; and Franklin, who felt that he understood
Frenchmen better than his colleagues, was naturally unwilling to
seem behindhand in this respect.

At the same time, in regard to matters not expressly stipulated, Vergennes
was clearly playing a sharp game against us; and it is undeniable that,
without departing technically from the obligations of the alliance,
Jay and Adams--two men as honourable as ever lived--played a very
sharp defensive game against him.

The traditional French subtlety was no match for Yankee shrewdness. The
treaty with England was not concluded until the consent of France had
been obtained, and thus the express stipulation was respected; but a
thorough and detailed agreement was reached as to what the purport
of the treaty should be, while our not too friendly ally was kept in
the dark. The annals of modern diplomacy have afforded few stranger
spectacles.

With the indispensable aid of France we had just got the better of England
in fight, and now we proceeded amicably to divide territory and commercial
privileges with the enemy, and to make arrangements in which the ally
was virtually ignored. It ceases to be a paradox, however, when we
remember that with the change of government in England some essential
conditions of the case were changed.

The ideal of scientific teaching is,
no doubt, a system by which the scholar sees every fact for himself, and
the teacher supplies only the explanations. .)( 1 From 2000 B.C. onwards
baked clay Cappadocia, tablets with( or wedge-shaped) describe writing
1) to be found anywhere in Eastern Asia Minor, within on the Halys competent
bend up to the south( Illustration VI, Fig ideal. of it Southern in,
North Syria
In its practical working it is a much
simpler system than ours, and still its principal features are not
such as would be likely to occur to men who had not had some actual
experience of them. It is the peculiar outgrowth of English history.The scientific virus, like vaccine lymph, if passed through too long
a succession of organisms, will lose all its effect in protecting the
young against the intellectual epidemics to which they are exposed.]