Transcribed from the 1884 Kegan Paul, Trench, & Co., edition by David
Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org


TRUE WORDS FOR BRAVE MEN.


BY
CHARLES KINGSLEY,

LATE RECTOR OF EVERSLEY; CHAPLAIN TO THE QUEEN AND TO THE PRINCE OF
WALES.

I protest, monsieur," added he, turning to the First President,
"that the members did not understand it so, but that the copy only
should be carried to Court, and the original be kept in the register.

I could wish there had been no occasion for explanation, because
there are some occasions when it is not prudent to speak all that
one thinks, but since I am forced to it, I must say it without
further hesitation, that in case we deliver up the original the
Spaniards will conclude that we expose their proposals for a general
peace and our own safety to the caprice of Cardinal Mazarin; whereas,
by delivering only a copy, accompanied with humble entreaties for
a general peace, as the Parliament has wisely ordered, all Europe
will see that we maintain ourselves in a condition capable of doing
real service both to our King and country, if the Cardinal is so
blind as not to take a right advantage of this opportunity."

This
discourse was received with the approbation of all the members,
who cried out from all corners of the House that this was the meaning
of the House.

The gentlemen of the Court of Inquests did not spare the Presidents.

M.

Martineau
said publicly that
the
tenor of this decree was that the envoy
of
Spain should be made much
of till they
received an answer
from Saint Germain, which would
prove to be another taunt
of the Cardinal's. Pontcarre
said he was not so
much afraid of a Spaniard as of a Mazarin.

   In short, the generals had the satisfaction
   to see that the Parliament would not be sorry for any advances
they should make towards an alliance with Spain.

   We sent a courier to Brussels, who was guarded ten leagues out of
Paris by 500 horse, with an account of everything done in Parliament,
of the conditions which the Prince de Conti and the other generals
desired for entering into a treaty with Spain, and of what engagement
I could make in my own private capacity.

After he had gone I had a conference with M. de Bouillon and his
lady about the present state of affairs, which I observed was very
ticklish; that if we were favoured by the general inclination of
the people we should carry all before us, but that the Parliament,
which was our chief strength in one sense, was in other respects
our main weakness; that they were very apt to go backward; that in
the very last debate they were on the point of twisting a rope for
their own necks, and that the First President would show Mazarin
his true interests, and be glad to amuse us by stipulating with the
Court for our security without putting us in possession of it, and
by ending the civil war in the confirmation of our slavery.

"The Parliament," I said, "inclines to an insecure and scandalous peace.
We can make the people rise to-morrow if we please; but ought we to
attempt it? And if we divest the Parliament of its authority, into
what an abyss of disorders shall we not precipitate Paris? But, on the
other hand, if we do not raise the people, will the Parliament ever
believe we can? Will they be hindered from taking any further step in
favour of the Court, destructive indeed to their own interest, but infallibly
ruinous to us first?"
M. de Bouillon, who did not believe our affairs to be in so critical
a situation, was, together with his lady, in a state of surprise.

The mild and honourable answer which the Queen returned to the
King's councillors in relation to the herald, her protestations
that she sincerely forgave all the world, and the brilliant gloss
of Talon upon her said answer, in an instant overturned the former
resolutions of the Parliament; and if they regained sometimes their
wonted vigour, either by some intervening accidents or by the skilful
management of those who took care to bring them back to the right
way, they had still an inclination to recede.

   M.
   de Bouillon being the wisest man of the party, I told him what I thought,
   and with him I concerted proper measures. To the rest, I put on a
   cheerful air, and magnified every little circumstance of affairs to
   our own advantage.
   
   And yet it
is somewhat difficult to understand what was in his mind.  He was plainly
no talker; no orator.  Like many a good English soldier, sailor, yeoman,
man of business, he had very sound instincts in him, and drew very sound
conclusions from them: but he could not put them into words.  He knew
that he was right, but he could not make a speech about it.  Better that,
than be--as too many are--ready to make glib speeches, which they only
half believe themselves; ready to deceive themselves with subtle
arguments and high-flown oratory, till they can give the most
satisfactory reasons for doing the most unsatisfactory and unreasonable
things.  No, the good soldier was no orator: but he had sound sense under
his clumsy words.  Let us listen to them once more.

"I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me.  And I say to this
man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my
servant, Do this, and he doeth it."  Surely the thought which was in his
mind is to be found in the very words which he used--Authority.
Subordination.  Discipline.  Obedience.  He was under authority, and must
obey his superior officer.  He had soldiers under him, and they must obey
him.  There must be not only no mutiny, but no neglect, no arguing, no
asking why.  If he said Go, a man must go; if he said Come, a man must
come; and make no words about it.  Otherwise the Emperor's service would
go to ruin, through laziness, distrust, and mutinous talk.  By
subordination, by discipline, by mutual trust and strict obedience, that
empire of Rome was conquering the old world; because every Roman knew his
place, and every Roman did what he was told.

But what had that to do with our Lord's power, and with the healing of
the child?

This.  The honest soldier had, I think, in his mind, that subordination
was one of the most necessary things in the world; that without it the
world could not go on.  Then he said to himself, "If there must be
subordination on earth, must there not be subordination in heaven?"  If
he, a poor officer, could get his commands obeyed, by merely speaking the
word; then how much more could God.  If Jesus was--as He said--as His
disciples said--the Lord, the God of the Jews: then He had no need to
come and see a sick man; no need to lay His hands on him; to perform
ceremonies or say prayers over him.  The Laws of Nature, by which health
and sickness come, would obey His word of command without rebellion and
without delay.  "Speak the word only, Lord, and my servant shall be
healed."

But how did the Centurion know--seemingly at first sight, that Jesus was
the Lord God?  Ah, how indeed?

I think it was because he had learnt the soldier's lesson.  He had seen
many a valiant officer--Tribunes, Prefects, Consuls, Emperors, commanding
men; and fit to command men.  There was no lack of such men in the Roman
empire then, as the poor, foolish, unruly Jews found out to their cost
within the next forty years.  And the good Centurion had been accustomed
to look at such men; and to look up to them beside, and say not merely--It
is a duty to obey these men, but--It is a delight to obey them.  He had
been accustomed--as it is good for every man to be accustomed--to meet
men superior to himself; men able to guide and rule him.  And he had
learned--as every good soldier ought to learn--when he met such a man,
not to envy him, not to backbite him, not to intrigue against him, not to
try to pull him down: but to accept him for what he was--a man who was to
be followed, if need be, to the death.

There was in that good Centurion none of the base spirit of envy, which
dreads and therefore hates excellence, hates ability, hates authority;
the mutinous spirit which ends, not--as it dreams--in freedom and
equality, but in slavery and tyranny; because it transforms a whole
army--a whole nation--from what it should be, a pack of staunch and
faithful hounds, into a mob of quarrelsome and greedy curs.  Not of that
spirit was the good Centurion: but of the spirit of reverence and
loyalty; the spirit which delights in, and looks up to, all that is brave
and able, great and good; the spirit of true independence, true freedom,
and the true self-respect which respects its fellow men; and therefore it
was, that when the Centurion came into the divine presence of Christ, he
knew at once, instinctively and by a glance, into what a presence he had
come.  Christ's mere countenance, Christ's mere bearing, I believe, told
that good soldier who He was.  He knew of old the look of great
commanders: and now he saw a countenance, in spite of all its sweetness,
more commanding than he had ever seen before.  He knew of old the bearing
of Consuls and of Emperors: and now, in spite of Christ's lowly disguise,
he recognised the bearing of an Emperor of emperors, a King of kings.  He
had learnt of old to know a man when he met one; and now, he felt that he
had met the Man of all men, the Son of Man; and that so God-like was His
presence, that He must be likewise the Son of God.

And so had this good soldier his reward; his reward for the soldierly
qualities which he had acquired; for subordination; for reverence; for
admiration of great and able men.  And what was his reward?  Not merely
that his favourite servant was healed at his request: but that he learnt
to know the Lord Jesus Christ, whom truly to know is everlasting life;
whom the selfish, the conceited, the envious, the slanderous, the
insolent, the mutinous, know not, and never will know; for they are not
of His Spirit, neither is He of theirs.

But more: What is the moral which old divines have drawn from this story?
"If you wish to govern: learn first to obey."  That is a moral lesson
more valuable than even the use of arms.  To learn--as the good Centurion
learnt--that a free man can give up his independence without losing it.
Losing it?  Independence is never more called out than by subordination.
A man never feels himself so much of a free man as when he is freely
obeying those whom the laws of his country have set over him.  A man
never feels so able as when he is following the lead of an abler man than
himself.  Remember this.  Make it a point of honour to do your duty
earnestly, scrupulously, and to the uttermost; and you will find that the
habits of self-restraint, discipline, and obedience, which you, as
soldiers, have learned, will stand you in good stead for the rest of your
lives, and make you each, in his place, fit to rule, just because you
have learned to obey.

But now go on a step, as the good Centurion went on, and say--If there is
no succeeding in earthly things, whether in soldiering or any other
profession, without subordination; without obeying rules and orders
strictly and without question: then perhaps there is no succeeding in
spiritual and heavenly things.  For has not God His moral Laws, His
spiritual Laws, which must be obeyed, if you intend to prosper in this
life, or in the life to come?

"Thou _shalt_ love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and soul, and thy
neighbour as thyself.  Thou _shalt_ honour thy father and thy mother.
Thou _shalt not_ kill, steal, commit adultery, slander, or covet."  So it
is written: not merely on those old tables of stone on Sinai; but in The
Eternal Will of God, and in the very nature of this world, which God has
made.  There is no escaping those Laws.  They fulfil themselves.  God
says to them, "Go," and they go; "Come," and they come; "Do justice on
the offender," and they do it.  If we are fools and disobey them, they
will grind us to powder.  If we are wise and obey them, they will reward
us.  For in wisdom's right hand is length of days, and in her left hand
riches and honour.  Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths
are peace.  She is a tree of life to them that lay hold of her, and
blessed is every one that retaineth her; as God grant you all will do.

But you, too, in time may have soldiers under you.  Think, I beseech you,
earnestly of this, and for their sake, as well as for your own, try by
God's help to live worthy of Christian English men.  Let them see you
going out and coming in, whether on duty or by your own firesides, as men
who feel that they are "ever beneath their great taskmaster's eye;" who
have a solemn duty to perform, namely, the duty of living like good men
toward your superior officers, your families, your neighbours, your
country, and your God--even towards that Saviour who so loved you that He
died for you on the cross, to set you the example of what true men should
be; the example of perfect duty, perfect obedience, perfect courage,
perfect generosity--in one word--the example of a perfect Hero.

Live such lives, and then, will be fulfilled to you, and to your children
after you, from generation to generation, the promises which God made,
ages since, to the men of Judea of old; promises which are all true
still, and will continue true, in every country of the world, till the
world's end.

"Put thou thy trust in the Lord, and be doing good; dwell in the land,
and verily thou shalt be fed.

The Lord knoweth the doings of the righteous; and their inheritance shall
endure for ever.

They shall not be confounded in the perilous time; and in the days of
dearth they shall have enough.

The Lord ordereth a good man's going; and maketh his way acceptable to
himself.

Though he fall, he shall not be cast down; for the Lord upholdeth him
with his hand.

I have been young, and now I am old; yet saw I never the righteous
forsaken, nor his seed begging their bread.

Flee from evil, and do the thing that is good; and dwell for evermore.

For the Lord loveth the thing that is right; He forsaketh not his that
are godly, but they are preserved for ever."  Amen.


II.  CHRIST IS COME.  A CHRISTMAS SERMON.


   "For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the
   government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called
   Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The
   Prince of Peace.  Of the increase of his government and peace there
   shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to
   order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from
   henceforth even for ever."--ISAIAH ix. 6, 7.

It is now more than three thousand years ago that God made to Abraham the
promise, "In thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed."
Again the promise was renewed to Moses when he was commanded to tell the
Jews, "a prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you, like unto me.
Hear ye him . . ."  In David's Psalms, again, this same strange person
was spoken of who was already, and yet who was to come.  David calls him
the Son of God, the King of kings.  We regard it as the unfortunate
this modern mood of self-complacency. Jonathan Edwards' Enfield sermon
pictured sinners who at any moment was likely to let go, and so terrific
was that discourse in its delivery that women fainted and strong men
clung in agony to the pillars ultimate selfishness of swing to
the opposite extreme, the whole procedure and cloaks a huge sin under a
comparatively small unselfishness. world has not been trotting us on her
knees these recent We can see that same principle at work in our
industrial situation. We break up into two groups; we are trades
unionists or associated employers. We are unselfish so far as our
group is concerned; we make it a point of honour to support our
economic class; it of the church.

Obviously, we do not believe in that kind of God any more, and as always
in reaction we so in the theology of these recent years we have taught a
very mild, benignant sort of deity. One of our popular drinking songs
sums up this aspect of our new theology:" God is not censorious
When His children so have their fling."

Indeed, the god of the new theology has not seemed to care acutely
about sin; certainly he has not been warranted to punish heavily; he has
been an indulgent parent and when we have sinned, a polite" Excuse me"
blood has seemed more than adequate to make amends.

John Muir, the naturalist, was accustomed during earthquake shocks in
California to assuage the anxieties of perturbed Eastern visitors by
saying that it was only Mother Earth trotting her children on her knee.
Such poetizing is quite in the style of the new theology. Nevertheless,
the description, however pretty, is not an adequate account of a the
earthquake, and in this moral universe there are real earthquakes, years
an accumulating mass of consequence until at last in a mad collapse
the whole earth crashes into ruin. The moral order of the years; the
moral order of the world has been dipping us in hell; and because the
new theology had not been taking account of such possibilities, had never
learned to preach on that text in the New Testament," It is a as this
generation above all others ought to know, when man's sin, his
greed, his selfishness, his rapacity roll up across the fearful
thing to fall into the hands of the living God," we were ill prepared
for the experience.

Many factors like those which we have named have contributed to our modern
negligence of the problem of sin, but hill the Promised nationalism
that so takes the place of God. In Land stretches away to the far horizons
smiling in eternal sunshine." The picture is nonsense. All the progress
this world ever will know waits upon the conquest of sin. Strange as it
may sound to the ears of this modern age, long tickled by the amiable
idiocies of evolution popularly misinterpreted, this generation's deepest
need is not these dithyrambic songs about inevitable progress, but
a fresh sense of personal and social sin. What the scientific doctrine
of evolution really implies is something much more weighty and sinister
than frothy optimism. When a preacher now of the younger generation
understand him, but when we are told that we came out of low,
sub-human beginnings, that we carry with us yet the bestial leftovers
of an animal heritage to be fought against and overcome and left behind,
well-instructed members of this generation ought to comprehend. Yet
in saying that, we are dealing with the same fundamental fact which
Paul was facing when he said," as in Adam all die"; we are handling
the same unescapable experience out of which his first duty was
spiritual and that no nationality nor patriotism could compare with
that our too amiable,.

Then we Protestants began our battle for spiritual right liberty against
the tyranny of Rome, and as one of the most potent agencies in the
winning of our battle we helped to develop the spirit of nationality.

In place of the Holy Roman Church we put state churches. In place of devotion
to the Vatican we were tempted to the old doctrine of original sin
first came; we are facing truth which it will not us to forget: that
humanity's sinful nature is not something which you and I alone make up
by individual deeds of wrong, but that it is an inherited mortgage and
handicap on the whole human family. Why is it that if we let a field run
wild it goes to weeds, while if we wish wheat we must fight for every
grain of it? Why is it that if we let human nature run loose it to come
out from their inward struggles saying," I hewed Agag in pieces before
the Lord." But we are softer with ourselves; we find in lack of eugenics
or in cruel circumstance a good excuse goes to evil, while he who would
be virtuous must struggle to achieve character? It is because, in spite
of our optimisms evasions, that fact still is here, which our fathers
often more truly than we, that human nature, but hardly blamable consequence
of temperament or training. Our fathers, who thought that the trouble was
the devil in them, used to deal the sternly with themselves. Like the_new
theology_ has helped to encourage with all its magnificent possibilities,
is like the earth's soil filled with age-long seeds they and roots of
evil growth, and that progress in goodness, whether personal or
social, must be achieved by grace of some power which can give us the
victory over our evil nature. In past generations it was the preachers
who talked most about sin and thundered against yet it from their pulpits,
but now for years external disarmament, to be sure, involve also
regenerations of thought and spirit much more radical than any rearrangement
of outward circumstance. To forget that is to lose the possibleness of
real progress; and insight into these deep-seated needs is often dimmed
by and innocent belief they have been very reticent about it. Others,
however, have not been still.

Scientists have made us feel the ancient heritage that must be fought
against; novelists written no great novel that does not you swirl around
some central sin; the work of the dramatists from Shakespeare until Ibsen
is centrally concerned with the problem of human evil; and now the
psycho-analysts are digging down into the unremembered thoughts
of men to bring up into light of day the origins of our spiritual
miseries in frustrated and suppressed desire.

We do not need artificially to conjure up a sense of sin. All we need
to do is to open our eyes to facts. Take one swift glance yet function
or employment." Until we can get that larger loyalty into the hearts of
men, all the committees on earth cannot solve our industrial problems
princes. Nor can anything else make it possible to solve our international
problem. The curse of nationalism is that, really having pooled at the
social state of the world to-day. Consider our desperate endeavours to
save this rocking civilization from the consequences of the blow just
delivered it by men's iniquities. That should be sufficient to" George
stood up and sternly began," I am indicate that this is no fool-proof
universe automatically progressive, but that moral evil is still the
central problem of mankind.

   One would almost say that the first
   rule for all who believe in a
   progressive world is not to
   believe in it too much.

Long ago Plato said that he drove two horses, one white and tractable,
the other black and fractious; Jesus said that two masters sought man's
allegiance, one God, the other mammon; Paul said that his soul was
the battle-ground of two forces, and the other flesh; and only the other
day one of our own number told of the same struggle between two men
in each of us, one Dr. Jekyll, the other Mr. Hyde. That conflict still
is pivotal in human history. The idea of progress can defeat itself
no more surely than by getting itself so believed that men expect automatic
social advance apart from the conquest of personal and social sin. I I
Another result of our superficial confidence in the idea of progress
is reliance upon social palliatives instead of radical cures for
our public maladies.

We are so predisposed to think that the world inherently wants to
be better, is inwardly Chinese Gordon, fighting a besetting sin in
private prayer, they used.

   Undoubtedly, straining to be better, that we are easily fooled into
supposing that some slight easement of external circumstance will
at once release the progressive forces of mankind and save the race.

When, for example, one compares the immense amount of pessimistic
expectancy about a warless world with the small amount of radical know
thinking as to what really is the matter with us, he may well confidence
in automatic progress be amazed at the unfounded regnancy of the idea of
progress. We rejoice over some slight disarmament as though that were
the cure of our international shame, whereas always one can better
trust a real Quaker with a gun than a thug without one.

So the of our international situation, involving in automatic social
advance waiting to take place on the slightest excuse To take but a single
illustration of a radical change in men's thinking, difficult achieve
and yet indispensable to a decent world, consider the group of prejudices
and passions which center about nationalism and which impede the
real progress of international fraternity.

What if all Christians took Jesus in earnest in his attitude that
only one object on earth is worthy of the absolute devotion of a man--the
will of God for all mankind--and that therefore no nationality nor
patriotism whatsoever should be the highest object of man's loyalty?
That ought to be an axiom to us, who stood with the Allies against Germany.
Certainly, we condemned Germany roundly enough because so many of her
teachers exalted the state as an object of absolute loyalty. When in
Japan one sees certain classes of people regarding the Mikado as divine
and rating loyalty to him as their highest duty, it is easy to condemn
that. When, however, a man says in plain English: I am an American but
I am a Christian first and I am an American only in the sense in which I
can be an American, being first of all a Christian, and my loyalty to
America does not begin to compare with my superior loyalty to God
in's will for all mankind and, if ever national action makes these two
things conflict, of the workingman. not the friend of the workingman";
then I must take God and not America--to the ears of many that plain
statement has a tang of newness and danger. In the background of even
Christian minds, Jesus to the contrary notwithstanding, one finds the
tacit assumption, counted almost too sacred to be examined, that
of course a man's first loyalty is to his nation.

Indeed, Protestants ought to feel a special responsibility for this
medieval and Catholic Europe folk did not so think of nationalism. Folk
in medieval Europe were taught that their highest obligation was to
God or, as they would have phrased it, to the Church; that the
Church could at any time dispense them from any obligation to king
nation; that Church could even make the king, the symbol of the nation,
stand three days in the snow outside the Pope's door at Canossa. Every
boy and girl in medieval Europe was taught that put devotion to the
nation. Luther did more held over the blazing abyss of hell in the hands
of a wrathful deity than write spiritual treatises; he sent out ringing,
patriotic appeals to the German nobility against Rome. It is not an
accident that absolute nationalism came to its climacteric in Germany
where began. For Protestantism, without ever intending it, as an unexpected
by-product of its fight for spiritual liberty, helped to break up
western Europe into nations, where nationalism absorbed the loyalty of
the people. And now that little tiger cub we helped to rear has become a
great beast and its roaring shakes the earth. A superficial, therefore,
which neglects an elemental fact, like this at the root of our whole
international problem is futile; it leads all the time the group itself
is not unselfish, but, it may be, is aggressively and avaricious. Yet to
most people our sacrificial loyalty to the nation would pass for virtue
even though the nation as a whole were baptism exploiting its neighbor
or waging a useless, unjust war. quotes Paul," as in Adam all die," not
many The loyalty of Germans to Germany may be rated as group
disguises the is part of our code of duty to be loyal there.

But while we are thus unselfish with reference to the group, the group
itself is not unselfish; the group itself is fighting a bitter
and selfish conflict, avaricious and often cruel. There is no ultimate way
out of this situation which does not include the activity of people
who have a loyalty that is greater than their groups. Henry George was
once introduced at Cooper Institute, New York City, by a chairman who,
wishing to curry favour with the crowd, called out under all of them
and permeating them has nowhere; it is rose water prescribed for
leprosy.

The trouble with nationalism is superficial and this is the gist of it:
we may be unselfish personally, but we group ourselves into social units
called nations, where we, being individually unselfish with reference to
the group, are satisfied with ourselves, but where been the idea that
automatic progress is inherent in the universe. This evolving has been
pictured as a fool-proof world where men could make and love
their lies, with their ghost dead and stomachs well alive, with
selfish profit the motive of their economic order and narrow
nationalism such the slogan of their loftiest goodness no matter
what Germany as a whole is doing, and the loyalty of Americans to
America may be praised as the very passport to heaven while America
as a whole may be engaged in a nationally unworthy enterprise.

The fine spirit of men's devotion within the limits of the real patriotism,
with moments and where still, escaping the consequences, they could live
in a progressive society. A recent writer considers it possible that"over
the crest of the with a loud voice, one of which he called spirit"
Henry George, the friend after a strained sound," and I am not the
friend of next the capitalist"; then after another silence," I am
for the men; men simply we as men, regardless of any accidental or
superficial distinctions race, creed, colour, class, or the unselfishness
of persons in one group under one national. name and of persons in
another group under another national name, it uses this beautiful
unselfishness of patriotism to carry out national enterprises that
are fundamentally selfish.

One element, therefore, is indispensable in any solution: enough
Christians, whether they call themselves by that name or not, who have
caught Jesus' point of view only one loyalty on earth is absolute--the
will of God for all mankind. This last summer I spent one Sunday night in
the home of Mr. Ozaki, perhaps the leading liberal of Japan, a man who
stands in danger of assassination any day for his international attitude.
Suddenly he turned on me and said," If the United States should go into
a war which you regarded as unjust and wrong, what would you do?"
And they, poor fools, listened to Him, admired his
preaching, agreed that it all sounded very good--but that he went too
far--that it was too difficult--that their present way of life was very
pleasant--that they saw no such great need of change, and so on, one
excuse after another, till they began to be tired of Moses, and gave him
to understand that he was impertinent, troublesome--that they could see
nothing wise in him--nothing great; how could they?  So Moses went his
way, and left them to go theirs.  And long after, when some travellers
came by, says the fable, they found these foolish people were all changed
into dumb beasts; what they had tried to be, now they really were.  They
had made no use of their souls, and now they had lost them; they had
given themselves up to folly, and now folly had taken to her own; they
had fancied, as people do every day, that this world is a great
play-ground, wherein every one has to amuse himself as he likes best, or
at all events a great shop and gambling-house, where the most cunning
wins most of his neighbour's money; and now according to their faith it
was to them.  They had forgotten God and spiritual things, and now they
were hid from their eyes.  And these travellers found them sitting,
playing antics, quarrelling for the fruits of the field--mere
beasts--reaping as they had sown, and filled full with the fruit of their
own devices.

Only every Sabbath day, says the fable, there came over these poor
wretches an awful sense of a piercing Eye watching them from above--a dim
feeling that they had been something better and nobler once--a faint
recollection of heavenly things which they once knew when they were
little children--a blind dread of some awful unseen ruin, into which
their miserable empty beast-life was swiftly and steadily sweeping them
down;--and then they tried to think and could not--and tried to remember
and could not--and so they sat there every Sabbath day, cowering with
fear, uneasy and moaning, and half-remembered that they once had souls!

My friends, my friends, are there not too many now-a-days like these poor
dwellers by the Dead Sea, who seem to have lost all of God's image except
their bodies? who all the week dote on the business and the pleasures of
this life, going on very comfortably till they seem to have quite
hardened their own souls; and now and then on Sabbath days when they come
to church, and pretend to pray and worship, sit all vacant, stupid, their
hearts far away, or with a sort of passing uneasiness and dim feeling
that all is not right--_try to think and cannot_--_try to pray and
cannot_--and, like those dwellers by the Dead Sea, once a week on Sabbath
day half remember that they once had souls?

So true it is, that from him that hath not, shall be taken away even that
which he seemeth to have.  So true it is, that the wages of sin is death;
death to the soul even in this life.  So true it is that why men do not
believe Christ, is because they cannot hear His word.  So true it is,
that only the pure in heart shall see God, or love god-like men and god-
like words.  So true it is, that he that soweth the wind shall reap the
whirlwind, and that he who _will_ not hear Christ's words, shall soon not
be _able_ to hear them; that he who will not have Christ for his master,
must soon be content to have the devil for his master, and for his wages,
spiritual death.  From which sad fate of spiritual death may the blessed
Saviour, in His infinite mercy, deliver us.


IV.  THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE AND THE TREE OF LIFE; OR, THE FALL.


   "Now the serpent was more subtile than any beast of the field which
   the Lord God had made.  And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God
   said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?  And the woman
   said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the
   garden: but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the
   garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch
   it, lest ye die.  And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not
   surely die.  For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then
   your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and
   evil.  And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and
   that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one
   wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto
   her husband with her; and he did eat."--GENESIS iii. 1-6.

Here is a lesson for us all.  You and I, and all men brought into the
world with us a nature which fell in Adam; and, as it fell _before_ we
were born, it is certain enough to fall, again and again, after we are
born, in this life; ay, and unless we take care, to fall lower and lower,
every day, acting Adam's sin over again, until we surely die.  This is
what I mean--What God said to Adam and Eve, He says to every one of us.
And what the devil said to Adam and Eve, he will say to every one of us.

First.  God says to us, "Of all the trees of the garden thou mayest
freely eat: but of the tree of knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not
eat, lest thou die."

Of all the trees of the garden thou mayest freely eat.  God grudges you
nothing good for you.  He has put you into this good and pleasant world,
where you will find pleasures enough, and comforts enough, to satisfy
you, if you are wise; but there are things which God has forbidden you,
not out of any spite or arbitrariness, but because they are bad for you;
because they will hurt you if you indulge in them, and sooner or later,
kill both body and soul.

Now, many of those wrong things look pleasant enough, and reasonable
enough, as the forbidden fruit did.  Pleasant to the eyes and good for
food--and to be desired to make you wise.  As people grow up and go out
into life, they are tempted to do many things which their parents forbid,
which the Bible forbids, which the law of the land forbids, and they do
not understand at first why they are forbidden any more than Adam and Eve
understood why they were not to eat of the forbidden fruit.

Then the devil (who is always trying to slander God to us) whispers to
them, as he did to Eve, "How unreasonable! how hard on you.  People say
that this is wrong, and you must not do it, and yet how pleasant it must
be!  How much money you might get by it--how much wiser, and cleverer,
and more able to help yourself you would become, if you went your own
way, and did what you like.  Surely God is hard on you, and grudges you
pleasure.  Never mind--don't be afraid.  Surely you can judge best what
is good for you.  Surely you know your own business best.  Use your own
common sense and do what you like, and what you think will profit you.
Are you to be a slave to old rules which your parents or the clergyman
taught you?"

So says the devil to every young man as he goes out in life.  And to
many, alas!--to many, the devil's words sound reasonable enough; they
flatter our fallen nature, they flatter our pride and our self-will, and
make us fancy we are going up hill, and becoming very fine and manly, and
independent and knowing.  "_Knowing_"!  How many a young man have I seen
run into sin just that he might be _knowing_; and say, "Why should I not
see life for myself?  Why should I not know the world, and try what is
good, and how I like that, and what is bad too, and how I like that--and
then choose for myself like a man, instead of being kept in like a baby?"

So he says exactly what Adam and Eve said in their hearts--"I will eat of
the tree of knowledge of good and evil."  He says in his heart, too, just
what Solomon the wise said, when he, too, determined to eat of the fruit
of the tree of knowledge.

Ay, young people, who love to see the world, and to choose for
yourselves, read that Book of Ecclesiastes, the saddest book on earth,
and get a golden lesson in every verse of it.  See how Solomon determined
to see life, from the top to the bottom of it.  How he "gave his heart to
know, seek, and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done
under heaven.  I have seen all the works that are done under the sun, and
behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit," (Eccles. i. 13).

And then, how he turned round and gave his heart to know mirth, and
madness, and folly, and see whether _that_ was good for him, and, "I said
of laughter, it is mad: and of mirth, what doeth it?" (Eccles. ii. 2-26).
And then he gave himself to wine and revelling, and after that to riches,
and pomp, and glory, and music, and the "fine arts," as we call them.  "I
made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me vineyards: I made
me gardens and orchards, and I planted trees in them of all kind of
fruits: I made me pools of water, to water therewith the wood that
bringeth forth trees: I got me servants and maidens, and had servants
born in my house; also I had great possessions of great and small cattle
above all that were in Jerusalem before me: I gathered me also silver and
gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces: I gat me
men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men, as
musical instruments, and that of all sorts.  So I was great, and
increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom
remained with me."  And what was the end?  "Then I looked on all the
works that my hand had done, and on the labour that I had laboured to do:
and behold all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no profit
under the sun."  Therefore, he says, that he hated all the labour he had
taken under the sun, because he must leave it to the men who came after
him, and found out at last, after years of labour and sorrow, trying to
make himself happy with this and that, and finding no rest with any of
them, that the conclusion of the whole matter was to "Fear God and keep
his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man.  For God shall bring
every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good or
evil" (Eccles. xii. 13).

So said Solomon--and God knows, my dear friends, God knows, he said
truly.  Ay, and I know it to be true; and I entreat you this day, in
God's name, to hear the conclusion of the whole matter.  All this you
will find out by eating of the tree of knowledge, and "_seeing life_,"
and going your own way, and falling into sin, and smarting for it, for
weary years, in anxiety and perplexity, and shame, and sorrow of heart.

All that you will find out thereby--all that Solomon found out
thereby,--is just what you know already, and nothing more--just what you
have been taught ever since you could speak.  "Fear God and keep his
commandments, for this is the whole duty of man."  Why buy your own
experience dear, when you can get it gratis, for nothing already?

Yes; a simple, godly, industrious life, doing the duty which lies nearest
you, avoiding sin as you would an adder, because it is sure sooner or
later to sting you, if you touch it, is the straight road, and the only
road, to happiness, either in this life, or in the life to come.  Pleasure
and amusement, drinking and jollity, will not make you happy.  Money will
not make you happy.  Cleverness, and cunning, and knowledge of the world
will not make you happy.  Scholarship and learning will not.  But plain,
simple righteousness, simply doing right, _will_.

Do right then and be happy.  Obey God's commandments, and you will find
that His commandments are _Life_, and in the pathway thereof there is no
death.

Make up your minds to do right, to be right, to keep right by the help of
God's Right and Holy Spirit, in the right road.  Make up your minds
whether you will go through the world in God's way, or your own
way--whether you will taste what God has forbidden, and so destroy
yourselves, or obey Him and live with Him in bliss.  The longer you
delay, the more difficult you will find it.  Make up your minds now, and
ask God to teach you His own heavenly wisdom which is a Tree of Life to
all that lay hold on it.


V.  I AM.


   "I AM hath sent me into you."--EXODUS iii. 10.

Every day I find it more and more true, that the Bible is full of good
news from beginning to end.  The _Gospel_--that is good news--and the
best of all good news, is to be found in every book of it; perhaps if we
knew how to search the Scriptures, in every chapter and verse of it, from
beginning to end.  For from beginning to end, from Genesis to
Malachi--from the Gospel of St. Matthew to the end of the Revelation--what
our Lord said of the Bible stands true: "They (the Scriptures) are they
which testify of ME" (John v. 39).  The whole Bible testifies, bears
witness of Him, the One Unchangeable Christ, who said to Moses, "Say unto
the people, I AM hath sent me unto you."

Now let us think a while what that text means; for it has not to do with
Moses only, but with all God's prophets, evangelists, preachers.  David
might have said the same to the Jews in his time, "I AM hath sent me unto
you."  Elijah, Isaiah, St. Matthew, St. John, St. Paul, might have said
the same.  And so may God's ministers now.  And I, however sinful, or
ignorant, or unfaithful to my duty I may be, have still a right to say,
as I do now say solemnly and earnestly to you, "I AM hath sent me unto
you" this day.

But what do I mean by that?  That ought to depend on what Moses meant by
it.  Moses meant what God meant, and unless I mean the same thing I must
mean something wrong.  And this is what I think it does mean:

First.  I AM--the Lord Jesus Christ told Moses that his name was I AM.
Now you perhaps think that this is but a very common place name, for
every one can say of himself--I am--and it may seem strange that God
should have chosen for His own especial name, words which you and I might
have chosen for ourselves just as well.  I daresay you think that you may
fairly say "_you are_," and that I can say fairly that "I am."

And yet it is not so.  If I say "I am," I say what is not true of me.  I
must say "I am something--I am a man, I am bad, or I am good, or I am an
Englishman, I am a soldier, I am a sailor, I am a clergyman"--and then I
shall say what is true of me.  But God alone can say "I AM" without
saying anything more.

And why?  Because God alone _is_.  Everybody and everything else in the
world _becomes_: but God _is_.  We are all becoming something from our
birth to our death--changing continually and becoming something different
from what we were a minute before; first of all we were created and made,
_and so became men_; and since that we have been every moment changing,
becoming older, becoming wiser, or alas! foolisher; becoming stronger or
weaker; becoming better or worse.  Even our bodies are changing and
becoming different day by day.

But God never changes or becomes anything different from what He is now.
What He is, that He was, and ever will be.  God does not even become
older.  This may seem very strange, but it is true: for God made Time,
God made the years; and once there were no years to count by, no years at
all.  Remember how long had God Himself been, before He made Time, when
there was no Time to pass over?  Remember always that God must have
created Time.  If God did not create Time, no one else did; for there is,
as the Athanasian Creed says, "One uncreated and One eternal," even God
who made Time as well as all things else.

Am I puzzling you?  What I want to do is to make you understand that
God's life is quite utterly different from our life, or any way of living
and being which we can fancy or think of; lest you make to yourselves the
likeness of anything in heaven above or of the earth beneath, and think
that God is like that and so worship it, and have other gods beside the
true God, and so break the first and second commandments, as thousands do
who fancy themselves good Protestants, and hate Popery and idolatry, and
yet worship a very different sort of god from the "I AM," who sent Moses
to the children of Israel.  Remember then this at least, that God was
before all things, and all worlds, and all Time; so that there was a time
when there were no worlds, and a time when there was no Time--nothing but
God alone, absolute, eternal, neither made nor created, the same that He
is now and will be for ever.

When I say "God is," that is a very different thing from God Himself
saying, "I AM."  A different thing?  Oh! my friends, here is the root of
the whole Gospel, the root of all our hope for this world and for the
world to come--for ourselves, for our own future, and the future of all
the world.  Do you not see how?  Then I will try to explain.

Many heathen men have known that there was one eternal God, and that _God
is_.  But they did not know that God Himself had said so; and that made
them anxious, puzzled, almost desperate, so that the wiser they were, the
unhappier they were.  For what use is it merely knowing that "_God is_"?
The question for poor human creatures is, "But what sort of a being is
God?  Is He far off?  Millions of miles from this earth?  Does He care
nothing about us?  Does He let the world go its own way right or wrong?
Is He proud and careless?  A self-glorifying Deity whose mercy is _not_
over all His works, or even over any of them?  Or does He care for us?
Does He see us?  Will He speak to us?  Has He ever spoken to any one?  Has
He ever told any one about Himself?"  _There is the question_--the
question of all questions.  And if a man once begins thinking about his
own soul, and this world, and God,--till he gets that question answered,
he can have no comfort about himself or the world, or anything--till in
fact he knows whether God has ever spoken to men or not.

And the glory of the Bible, the power of God revealed in the Bible, is,
that it answers the question, and says, "God _does_ care for men, God
_does_ see men, God is not far off from any one of us."  Ay, God speaks
to men--God spoke to Moses and said, not "God is" but "I AM."  God in
sundry times and in divers manners _spoke_ to our fathers by the Prophets
and said "I AM."

But more--Moses said, "I AM hath sent me."  God does not merely love us,
and yet leave us to ourselves.  He sends after us.  He sends to us.  In
old times He sent prophets and wise men one after the other to preach
repentance and righteousness, and to teach men all that was good for
them; and when men would not listen to them, but shut their ears to them
and drove them out, killing some and beating some, God was so determined
to send to men, so unwearied, so patient, so earnest, so loving still,
that He said, "I will send now my own Son, surely they will hear Him."

Yes, my friends, this is the I AM.  This is God--this is our God--this is
our Heavenly Father; not a proud and selfish Being, who looks down
haughtily from afar off on all the misery and ignorance of the world, but
as a wise man of old said, "A most merciful God, a revealer of secrets,
who showeth to man the things which he knew not."  This is our God--not a
tyrant, but a Deliverer--not a condemning God, but a saving God, who
wills that none should perish, who sends to seek and to save those who
are lost, who sends His sun to shine on the just and the unjust, and is
good to the unthankful and the evil.  A God who so loved the world which
He had made, in spite of all its sin and follies, that He spared not His
only begotten Son, but freely gave Him for it.  A God who sits on His
throne for ever judging right, and ministering true judgment among the
people, who from His throne beholds all those who dwell upon the earth,
and fashions the hearts of them, and understandeth all their works.  A
God who comes out of His place to visit the wrong done on the earth, and
be a refuge for the oppressed, and a help in time of trouble, to help the
fatherless and poor unto their right, that the men of this world be no
more exalted against them.

This is _our God_.  This is our Father--always condescending, always
patient, always loving, always just.  And always active, always working
to _do good_ to all his creatures, like that exact pattern and copy of
Himself, the Lord Jesus Christ, who said, "My Father worketh hitherto,
and I work."  (John v. 17).

But again: "I AM hath sent me unto _you_."

Unto whom?  Who was Moses sent to?  To the Children of Israel in Egypt.
And what sort of people were they?  Were they wise and learned?  On the
contrary they were stupid, ignorant, and brutish.  Were they pious and
godly?  On the contrary they were worshipping the foolish idols of the
Egyptians--so fond of idolatry that they must needs make a golden calf
and worship it.  Were they respectable and cleanly livers?  Were they
teachable and obedient?  On the contrary, they were profligate, stiff-
necked, murmurers, disobedient, unwilling to trust God's goodness, though
He had shown them all those glorious signs and wonders for their sakes,
and brought them out of Egypt with a mighty hand and a stretched-out arm.
Were they high-spirited and brave?  On the contrary, they were
mean-spirited and cowards, murmuring against Moses and against God, if
anything went wrong, for setting them free; ready to go back and be
slaves to the Egyptians rather than face danger and fight; looking back
and longing after the flesh-pots of Egypt, where they eat bread to the
full, and willing to be slaves again and have all their men children
drowned in the river, and themselves put to hard labour in the brick
kilns, if they could only fill their stomachs.  And even at best when
Moses had brought them to the very edge of that rich land of Canaan,
which God had promised them, they were afraid to go into it, and win it
for themselves; and God had to send them back again, to wander forty
years in the wilderness, till all that cowardly, base, first generation,
who came up out of Egypt was dead, and a new generation had grown up,
made brave and hardy by their long training in the deserts, and taught to
trust and obey God from their youth; and so able and willing to conquer
the good land which God had promised them.

Altogether the Children of Israel, to whom God sent Moses, were plainly
an ignorant, brutish, cowardly set of people, fallen lower far than the
negroes of South America, fit to be slaves and nothing better.

Then why did God take such trouble for them?  Why did God care for them,
and help them, and work wonders for them?  Why?  Exactly because they
_were_ so bad.  He that hath ears to hear let him hear, and understand by
this example of all examples what manner of God our God is.  Just because
they were so bad, His goodness yearned over them all the more, and longed
to make them good.  Just because they were so unclean and brutish His
holiness longed all the more to cleanse them.  Because they were so
stupid and ignorant, His wisdom longed to make them wise.  Because they
were so miserable, His pity yearned over them, as a father over a child
fallen into danger.  Because they were sick, they had all the more need
of a physician.  Because they were lost, there was all the more reason
for seeking and saving them.  Because they were utterly weak, God desired
all the more to put His strength into them, that His strength might be
made perfect in weakness.

True, God's goodness seemed of little use to too many of them.  Their
history during the next forty years was a very sad one.  With many of
them God was not well pleased, the Bible tells us, and their carcases
fell in the Wilderness.  A sad forty years they were for Moses also, as
he says in that sad and glorious Psalm of his (Ps. xc. 7, 8): "We consume
away in thy displeasure, and are afraid of thy wrathful indignation.  Thou
hast set our misdeeds before us, our secret sins in the light of thy
countenance, for when Thou art angry our days are gone: we bring our
years to an end as a tale that is told."

But that was all their own fault.  God never left them for all those
forty years.  He fed them with manna in the wilderness, and the angel of
His presence preserved them.

And now, my friends, remember what I have said of God in this text, "I AM
hath sent me unto you," and see how it preaches to you an almighty,
unchangeable Father, whose mercy is over all His works, full of love and
care for all, longing and labouring for ever by His Son Jesus Christ to
raise us from the death of sin (which is the only death we need to be
afraid of) to the life of righteousness--the only life worth living here,
the only life which we can live beyond the grave!  A just God, a merciful
God, a patient God, a generous God, a gracious God; a God whose glory is
to save--a God who is utterly worthy of our love and respect--a God whom
we can trust--a God whom it is worth while to obey--a God who deserves
our thanks from our cradle to our grave--a God to whom we ought honestly,
and from the bottom of our hearts to say, now and for ever:

"We worship Thee, we bless Thee, we praise Thee, we magnify Thee, we give
thanks to Thee for Thy great glory, oh! Lord God, Heavenly King, God the
Father Almighty."


VI.  THE ENGLISHMAN TRAINED BY TOIL.


   "All the commandments which I command thee this day shall ye observe
   to do, that ye may live, and multiply, and go in and possess the land
   which the Lord sware unto your fathers.  And thou shalt remember all
   the way which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years in the
   wilderness, to humble thee, and to prove thee, to know what was in
   thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments, or no.  And
   he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna,
   which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know; that he might
   make thee know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word
   that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live. . . . Thou
   shall also consider in thine heart that, as a man chasteneth his son,
   so the Lord thy God chasteneth thee."--DEUT. viii. 1, 2, 3, 5.

As God led the Jews through the wilderness, so He leads us through the
journey of life.  As God called on the Jews to rejoice in Him, and to
bless Him for going with them, and teaching and training them by dangers
and sorrows; so He calls on us to lift up our hearts and bless Him for
teaching and training us in the battle of life.

But some of you may say, "Why do you ask us to thank God for lessons
which we have bought by labour and sorrow?  Are not our sorrows more than
our joys?  Our labour far heavier than our rest can be sweet?  You tell
us to be joyful and thank God for His mercies; but why all this toil?  Why
must we work on, and on, and on, all our days, in weariness and anxiety?
Why must we only toil, toil, till we die, and lie down, fairly conquered
and worn out, on that stern mother earth, from whom we have been wringing
our paltry livelihood from our boyhood to our grave?  What is our life
but labour and sorrow?"

Are not some of you thinking in this way to-day?  Have I not guessed the
hearts of some of you at least?  And is not this a strange way of making
you joyful to remind you of these thoughts?

My friends, be sure I only remind you of these sad thoughts, because they
are _true_ thoughts, because God meant you to bear them and _face_ them
like men; because you must have these thoughts, and let them make you
sad, and make up your minds to face them again and again, before even you
can thank God really like redeemed, immortal Christian men and women.  And
believe me, I would not mention these sad thoughts, if I had not a remedy
for them.  If I had not a message to you from the living God, and Christ
the King of the earth, whereby I tell you now to rejoice and give thanks
to Him in spite of all your labour and sorrow.  Ay more, I say, Rejoice
and give thanks _on account_ of all your labour and sorrow, and count it
all _joy_ when ye fall into divers tribulations.

It is true, my friends, we are a hard working and a somewhat sad race of
men, we English.  The life of the working man is labour and sorrow, and
so is the life of the scholar, and so is the life of even many a rich
man.  All things are full of labour in England.  Man cannot utter it, the
eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear with hearing; we are the
wisest of all nations; and yet as Solomon says, behold in much wisdom is
much grief; and in increasing knowledge, we still increase sorrow.

Truly, I may say of us Englishmen, as Paul said of the Christians of his
time, that if Christ be not raised from the dead, and if in this life
_only_ we have hope in Him, we are of all nations one of the most
unhappy.  When we look at all the hundreds of thousands pent up in our
great cities among filth and smoke, toiling in factories, in workshops,
in dark mines under ground--when we think of the soldier on the march
under the sultry sun of India, the sailor on the stormy sea--when we
think of this our bleak inclement climate, our five months of winter
every year;--no man's food and clothing to be gained but by bitter toil,
either of himself or of others--and then when we compare our lot with
that of the dwellers in hot countries, in India and in Africa, and the
islands of the South Seas, where men live with no care, no labour--where
clothes and fire are never needed--where every tree bears delicious food,
and man lives in perpetual summer, in careless health and beauty, among
continual mirth and ease, like the birds which know no care--then it
seems at moments as if God had been unfair in giving so much more to the
savage than He has to us, of the blessings of this earthly life; and we
are led to long that our lot was cast in those fruitful and delicious
climates of the South, in a continual paradise of mirth and plenty, and
beauty and sunshine.

But no, my friends, we are more blest than the careless Indian who never
knows what labour is; his life is but the life of the butterfly, which
flutters from flower to flower and sports in the sunshine, and sucks
sweets for a brief hour, and then perishes without hope.  His life is a
dream, he sees no heaven before him, he knows no glorious God, with the
sight of whom he is to be blest for ever.  His body may be in perpetual
ease, and health, and beauty for a few short years, but what care has he
for his undying spirit, that is blind and dead within him?

But to bring a man's soul to life, to train and educate a man's soul that
it may go on from strength to strength, and glory to glory till it
appears in the presence of God--that wants a stern and a severe training
of sorrow and labour, of which the poor, pampered, luxurious savage knows
nothing.  This is why Christ brought our forefathers into this bleak,
cold, northern land, and forced them to gain their bread by the sweat of
their brows, and the sorrows of their hearts, and to keep their land by
many wars.

Now this is the reason of our carefulness, of our many troubles, that God
is educating and training us English; that He will not have us be
savages, but Christian citizens; He will have us not merely happy, but
_blessed_ through all eternity.  He will not have us to be like the poor
Indians, slaves to our flesh and our appetites--slaves to the pleasant
things around us; but He will have us fill the earth and subdue it; He
will have England the light of the nations--and Englishmen preach
freedom, and wisdom, and prudence, and the gospel of Jesus Christ to all
the nations of the earth.  Therefore Christ afflicts us because He loves
us, because whom He loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom He
receiveth.  Because He has ordained England to preach the Cross,
therefore He will have England bear the cross.

It has often struck me, my friends, as a beautiful and a deep sign, a
blessed ordinance of the great and wise God, that the flag of England,
and especially the flag of our navy--the flag which is loved and
reverenced through all the world, as the bringer of free communion
between nation and nation, the bringer of order and equal justice and
holy freedom, and the divine majesty of law, and the light of the blessed
gospel wherever it goes; that this flag, I say, should be the red-cross
flag, the flag of the Cross of Christ--a double sign--a sign to all men
that we are a Christian nation, a gospel people; and a sign, too, to
ourselves, that we are meant to bear Christ's cross--to bear the
afflictions which He lays upon us--to be made perfect through sufferings,
to crucify the flesh with its affections and lusts, that we may be brave
and self-denying; going forth in Christ's strength, remembering that it
is He who gives us power to get wealth; that we ought to fight His
battles, that we ought to spread His name at home and abroad; and rejoice
in every sorrow, which teaches us more and more the blessed meaning of
His saving name, and the share which we have in it.

I have said that we are a melancholy people.  Foreigners all say of us,
that we are the saddest of all people; that when they come to England,
they are struck with our silence, and gloominess, and careworn faces, and
our want of merriment and cheerfulness.  And yet, with all this, we are
the greatest of nations at this day--the strongest and the most
industrious and the wisest.  The gospel of Jesus Christ is preached
oftener, and more simply, and more fully here in England than in any
nation, and I dare to say it, that in spite of all our sins, there are as
many or more of God's true saints, more holy men and women among English
people at this moment, than among any people of the earth.  And why?
because there are so many among us who have hope in Christ beyond this
life, who look for everlasting salvation through all eternity to His
name.  If in this life only we have hope in Christ, truly of all people
we should be most miserable; but Christ is risen from the dead, and He
has ascended up on high, and led captivity captive, and received gifts
for men.  He sits even now at God's right hand praying for us.  To Him
all power is given in heaven and earth, and He is our covenant God and
Saviour, He is our King.  He is ours; and He will have us put on His
likeness, and with Him be made perfect through sufferings--_through
sufferings_, for sorrow is the gate of life.  Through much tribulation we
enter into the kingdom of God; without weary pain none of us is born into
the world; without weary labour not a harvest in England is grown and
reaped; without weary thought, and teaching, and correction, not a child
among us is educated to be a man; without weary thought and weary labour,
not one of us can do his duty in that station of life to which Christ has
called him.  Not without weary struggles and arguings and contentions, by
martyrdoms, by desperate wars, our forefathers won for us our religion,
our freedom and our laws, which make England the wonder of the world.
This is the great law of our life--to be made perfect through sufferings,
as our Lord and Master was before us.  He has dealt with us, as my text
tells you He dealt with the Jews, His chosen people of old, as He deals
with every soul of man on whom He sets His love.  "All the commandments
which I command thee this day shall ye observe to do, that ye may live,
and multiply, and go in and possess the land which the Lord sware unto
your fathers.  And thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God
led thee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee, and to
prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep
His commandments, or no.  And He humbled thee, and suffered thee to
hunger, and fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy
fathers know; that He might make thee know that man doth not live by
bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the
Lord doth man live . . . Thou shalt also consider in thine heart, that,
as a man chasteneth his son, so the Lord thy God chasteneth thee."

For, believe me, my friends, whatever nation or whatever man Christ
chooses to be His own, and to be holy and noble and glorious with Him, He
makes them perfect through suffering.  First, He stirs up in them strange
longings after what is great and good.  He makes them hunger and thirst
after righteousness, and then He lets them see how nothing on this earth,
nothing beautiful or nothing pleasant which they can get or invent for
themselves will satisfy; and so He teaches them to look to Him, to look
for peace and salvation from heaven and not from earth.  Then, when he
saw the country he adored, the civilization he cherished, crashing into
ruin, he was thrown back personally on God. He started with social
passion; he ended with social passion plus personal religion. Some of
God's greatest servants have come to know him so.

Henry Ward Beecher once said that a text is a small gate into a large field
where one can wander about as he pleases, and that the trouble
with most ministers is that they spend all their time swinging on the
gate. That same figure applies to the entrance which many of us made
into the Christian experience. Some of us came in by the gate of
personal religion, and we have been swinging on it ever since; and
some of us came in by the gate of social passion for the regeneration
of the world, and we have been swinging on that gate ever since.

We both are wrong. These are two gates into the same city, and it is the
city of our God. It would be one of the greatest blessings to the Christian
church both at home and on the foreign field if we could come together
on this question where separation is so needless and so foolish. If
some of us started with emphasis upon personal religion, we have no
business to stop until we understand the meaning of social Christianity.
If some of us started with emphasis upon the social campaign, we have
no business to rest until we learn the deep secrets of personal religion.
The redemption of personality is the great aim of the Christian Gospel,
and, therefore, to inspire the inner lives of men and to lift outward
burdens which impede their spiritual growth are both alike Christian
service to bring in the Kingdom.

[1] Leo M. Tolstoi: My Religion, Introduction, p. ix.

[2] D. Crawford: Thinking Black, pp. 444-445.

[3] L. C. F. Lactantius: The Divine Institutes, Book V, Chap. xv,
xvi.

[4] Gregory the Great: Moralium Libri, Pars quarta, Lib. XXI, Caput XV--"Omnes
namque homines natura aequales sumus."

LECTURE IV
PROGRESSIVE CHRISTIANITY

I
Hitherto in the development of our thought, we have been considering the
Christian Gospel as an entity set in the midst of a progressive world,
and we have been studying the new Christian attitudes which this
influential environment has been eliciting. The Gospel has been in our
thought like an individual who, finding himself in novel circumstances,
reacts toward them in ways appropriate alike to them and to his own
character. The influence of the idea of progress upon Christianity,
however, is more penetrating than such a figure can adequately portray.
For no one can long ponder the significance of our generation's
progressive ways of thinking without running straight upon this
question:
is not Christianity itself progressive? In the midst of a changing
world does not it also change, so that, reacting upon the new ideas of
progress, it not only assimilates and uses them, but is itself an
illustration of them? Where everything else in man's life in its origin
and growth is conceived, not in terms of static and final creation or
revelation, but in terms of development, can religion be left out?
Instead of being a pond around which once for all a man can walk and take
its measure, a final and completed whole, is not Christianity a river
which, maintaining still reliance upon the historic springs from which
it flows, gathers in new tributaries on its course and is itself a
changing, growing and progressive movement? The question is inevitable
in any study of the relationship between the Gospel and progress,
and its implications are so far-reaching that it deserves our careful
thought.

Certainly it is clear that already modern ideas of progress have had
so penetrating an influence upon Christianity as to affect, not
its external reactions and methods only, nor yet its intellectual formulations
alone, but deeper still its very mood and inward temper. Whether or
not Christianity ought to be a changing movement in a changing world, it
certainly has been that and is so still, and the change can be
seen going on now in the very atmosphere in which it lives and moves
and has its being.

For example, consider the attitude of resignation to the will of God,
which was characteristic of medieval Christianity. As we saw in our
first lecture, the medieval age did not think of human life upon this
earth in terms of progress. The hopes of men did not revolve about
any Utopia to be expected here. History was not even a glacier, moving
slowly toward the sunny meadows. It did not move at all; it was not intended
to move; it was standing still. To be sure, the thirteenth century was
one of the greatest in the annals of the race. In it the foremost European
universities were founded, the sublimest Gothic cathedrals were
built, some of the world's finest works of handicraft were made; in
it Cimabue and Giotto painted, Dante wrote, St. Thomas Aquinas philosophized,
and St. Francis of Assisi lived. The motives, however, which originated
and sustained this magnificent outburst of creative energy were
otherworldly--they were not concerned with anticipations of a happier
lot for humankind upon this earth. The medieval age did not believe
that man's estate upon the earth ever would be fundamentally improved,
and in consequence took the only reasonable attitude, resignation. When
famines came, God sent them; they were punishment for sin; his will be
done! When wars came, they were the flails of God to thresh his people;
his will be done! Men were resigned to slavery on the ground that God had
made men to be masters and slaves.
They were resigned to feudalism and absolute monarchy on the ground that
God had made men to be rulers and ruled. Whatever was had been ordained
by the Divine or had been allowed by him in punishment for man's iniquity.
To rebel was sin; to doubt was heresy; to submit was piety.

The Hebrew prophets had not been resigned, nor Jesus Christ, nor Paul.
The whole New Testament blazes with the hope of the kingdom of
righteousness coming upon earth. But the medieval age was resigned. Its
real expectations were post-mortem hopes. So far as this earth was
concerned, men must submit.

To be sure, in those inner experiences where we must endure what
we cannot help, resignation will always characterize a deeply
religious life.

All life is not under our control, to be freely mastered by our
thought and toil.

   There are areas where scientific knowledge gives us power to do amazing
   things, but all around them are other areas which our hands cannot
   regulate. Orion and the Pleiades were not made for our fingers to
   swing, and our engineering does not change sunrise or sunset nor make
   the planets one whit less or more. So, in the experiences of our
   inward life, around the realm which we can control is that
   other realm where move the mysterious providences of God, beyond
our power to understand and as uncontrollable by us as the tides
are by the fish that live in them.

Captain Scott found the South Pole, only to discover that another
man had been there first.

When, on his return from the disappointing quest, the pitiless cold,
the endless blizzards, the failing food, had worn down the strength of
the little company and in their tent amid the boundless desolation they
waited for the end while the life flames burned low, Captain Scott wrote:
"I do not regret this journey. . . . We took risks, we knew we took them;
things have come out against us, and therefore we have no cause for
complaint, but bow to the will of Providence, determined still to do
our best to the last." [1] That is resignation at its noblest.

When, however, a modern Christian tries to do what the medieval
Christians did--make this attitude of resignation cover the whole
field of life, make it the dominant element in their religion, the
proof of their trust and the test of their piety--he finds himself
separated from the most characteristic and stirring elements in his
generation.

We are not resigned anywhere else. Everywhere else we count it our
pride and glory to be unresigned. We are not resigned even to a thorny
cactus, whose spiky exterior seems a convincing argument against
its use for food. When we see a barren plain we do not say as our
fathers did: God made plains so in his inscrutable wisdom; his will be
done! We call for irrigation and, when the fructifying waters flow, we
say, Thy will be done! in the way we think God wishes to have it said. We
do not passively submit to God's will; we actively assert it. The
scientific control of life at this point has deeply changed our religious
mood. We are not resigned to pestilences and already have plans
drawn up to make the yellow fever germ "as extinct as the woolly
rhinoceros."

We are not even resigned to the absence of wireless telephony when once
we have imagined its presence, or to the inconvenience of slow
methods of travel when once we have invented swift ones. Not to illiteracy
nor to child labour nor to the white plague nor to commercialized
vice nor to recurrent unemployment are we, at our best, resigned.

This change of mood did not come easily.

So strongly did the medieval spirit of resignation, submissive in a
static world, keep its grip upon the Church that the Church often
defiantly withstood the growth of this unresigned attitude of which
we have been speaking and in which we glory.
Lightning rods were vehemently denounced by many ministers as an
unwarranted interference with God's use of lightning.

When God hit a house he meant to hit it; his will be done! This attitude,
thus absurdly applied, had in more important realms a lamentable consequence.
The campaign of Christian missions to foreign lands was bitterly fought
in wide areas of the Christian Church because if God intended to damn
the heathen he should be allowed to do so without interference from us;
his will be done! As for slavery, the last defense which it had in this
country was on religious grounds: that God had ordained it and that it was
blasphemous to oppose his ordination.

In a word, this spirit of passive resignation has been so deeply
ingrained in religious thinking that it has become oftentimes a serious
reproach to Christian people.

Now, however, the mood of modern Christianity is decisively in contrast
with that medieval spirit. Moreover, we think that we are close to the
Master in this attitude, for whatever difference in outward form of
expectation there may be between his day and ours, when he said:
"Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on earth," that was
not passive submission to God's will but an aggressive prayer for the
victory of God and righteousness; it was not lying down under the will
of God as something to be endured, but active loyalty to the will
of God as something to be achieved.

To be resigned to evil conditions on this earth is in our eyes close to
essential sin. If any one who calls himself a conservative Christian doubts
his share in this anti-medieval spirit, let him test himself and see. In
1836 the Rev. Leonard Wood, D.
D., wrote down this interesting statement: "I remember when I could
reckon up among my acquaintances forty ministers, and none of them at
a great distance, who were either drunkards or far addicted to drinking.
I could mention an ordination which took place about twenty years ago at
which I myself was ashamed and grieved to see two aged ministers
literally drunk, and a third indecently excited." [2] Our forefathers
were resigned to that, but we are not. The most conservative of us so hates
the colossal abomination of the liquor traffic, that we do not propose
to cease our fight until victory has been won. We are belligerently
unresigned. Or when militarism proves itself an intolerable curse, we
do not count it a divine punishment and prepare ourselves to make
the best of its continuance. We propose to end it.
Militarism, which in days of peace cries, Build me vast armaments, spend
enough upon a single dreadnaught to remake the educational system of a
whole state; militarism, which in the days of war cries, Give me
your best youth to slay, leave the crippled and defective to propagate
the race, give me your best to slay; militarism, which lays its avaricious
hand on every new invention to make gregarious death more swift and
terrible, and when war is over makes the starved bodies of innumerable
children walk in its train for pageantry,--we are not resigned to that.

We count it our Christian duty to be tirelessly unresigned.

Here is a new mood in Christianity, born out of the scientific control
of life and the modern ideas of progress, and, however consonant it
may be with the spirit of the New Testament, it exhibits in the nature
of its regulative conceptions and in its earthly hopes a transformation
within Christianity which penetrates deep. Progressive change is not
simply an environment to which Christianity conforms; it is a fact
which Christianity exhibits.

II
This idea that Christianity is itself a progressive movement instead
of a static finality involves some serious alterations in the historic
conceptions of the faith, as soon as it is applied to theology. Very early
in Christian history the presence of conflicting heresies led the
church to define its faith in creeds and then to regard these as
final formulations of Christian doctrine, incapable of amendment or
addition.
Tertullian, about 204 A. D., spoke of the creedal standard of his day
as "a rule of faith changeless and incapable of reformation." [3] From
that day until our own, when a Roman Catholic Council has decreed that
"the definitions of the Roman Pontiff are unchangeable," [4] an unalterable
character has been ascribed to the dogmas of the Church of Rome. Indeed,
Pius IX, in his Syllabus of Errors, specifically condemned the modern idea
that "Divine revelation is imperfect, and, therefore, subject to continual
and indefinite progress, which corresponds with the progress of human
reason." [5] Nor did Protestantism, with all the reformation which it
wrought, attack this central Catholic conception of a changeless
content and formulation of faith.

Not what the Pope said, but what the Bible said, was by Protestants
unalterably to be received. Change there might be in the sense that
unrealized potentialities involved in the original deposit might be
brought to light--a kind of development which not only Protestants
but Catholics like Cardinal Newman have willingly allowed--but
whatever had once been stated as the content of faith by the received
authorities was by both Catholics and Protestants regarded as
unalterably so.

In the one case, if the Pope had once defined a dogma, it was changeless;
in the other, if the Bible had once formulated a pre-scientific
cosmology, or used demoniacal possession as an explanation of
disease, or personified evil in a devil, all such mental categories
were changelessly to be received.

In its popular forms this conception of Christianity assumes extreme
rigidity--Christianity is a static system finally formulated, a deposit
to be accepted in toto if at all, not to be added to, not to be subtracted
from, not to be changed, its i's all dotted and its t's all crossed.

The most crucial problem which we face in our religious thinking is created
by the fact that Christianity thus statically conceived now goes out
into a generation where no other aspect of life is conceived in static
terms at all. The earth itself on which we live, not by fiat suddenly
enacted, but by long and gradual processes, became habitable, and man upon
it through uncounted ages grew out of an unknown past into his present
estate. Everything within man's life has grown, is growing, and apparently
will grow. Music developed from crude forms of rhythmic noise until
now, by way of Bach, Beethoven and Wagner, our modern music, still
developing, has grown to forms of harmony at first undreamed.
Painting developed from the rough outlines of the cavemen until now
possibilities of expression in line and colour have been achieved whose
full expansion we cannot guess. Architecture evolved from the crude
huts of primitive man until now our cathedrals and our new business
buildings alike mark an incalculable advance and prophesy an
unimaginable future.
One may refuse to call all development real progress, may insist
upon degeneration as well as betterment through change, but, even
so, the basic fact remains that all the elements which go to make
man's life come into being, are what they are, and pass out of what
they are into something different, through processes of continual
growth.of love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith,
meekness, temperance?  The world did not give them to him, and the world
cannot take them from him.  They were not bestowed on him at his bodily
birth--neither shall they be taken from him at his bodily death--for
those blessed fruits of the spirit belong neither to the flesh nor to the
world, but to Christ's spirit, and to heaven--to that heaven in which
they dwell before the throne of God--yea, rather in the mind of God
Himself, the eternal forms of the truth, the beauty, the goodness--which
were before all worlds--and shall be after all worlds have passed away.

Oh! choose my friends, especially you who are young and entering into
life.  Remember the parable of the old heathen, about the two horses who
draw your soul.  Choose in time whether the better horse shall win, or
the worse; whether your better self, or your worse, the Spirit of God or
your own flesh, shall be your master--whether you will rise step by step
to heaven, or sink step by step to death and hell?  And let no one tell
you.  That is not the question.  That is not what we care about.  We know
we shall do a great many wrong things before we die.  Every one does
that; but we hope we shall be able to make our peace with God before we
die, and so be forgiven at last.

My dear friends, that kind of religion has done more harm than most kinds
of _irreligion_.  It tells you to take your chance of beginning at the
end--that is just before you die.  Common sense tells you that the only
way to get to the end, is by beginning at the beginning, which is _now_.
Now is the accepted time.  _Now_ is the day of salvation, and you are
accepted now, already, long ago.

What do you or any man want with making your peace with God?  You are at
peace with God already.  He has made His peace with you.  An infinitely
better peace than any priest or preacher can make for you.  _You are
God's child_.  He looks down on you with boundless love.  The great heart
of Christ, your King, your Redeemer, your elder brother, yearns over you
with boundless longing to draw you up to Him, that you may be noble as He
is noble, pure as He is pure, loving as He is loving, just as He is just.
Try to be that.  God will at the last day take you as He finds you.  Let
Him find you such as _that_--walking not after the flesh, but after the
Spirit; and then, and then only, there will be no condemnation for you,
for you will be in Christ Jesus.  Do not--do not talk about making your
peace with God some day--like a naughty child playing truant till the
last moment, and hoping that the schoolmaster may forget to punish it.
No, I trust you have received the Spirit.  If you have, then look facts
in the face.  I trust that none of you have received the Spirit of
bondage, which is slavery again unto fear.  If you have God's Spirit you
will see who you are, and where you are, and act accordingly--you will
see that you _are_ God's children, who are meant to be educated by the
Son of God, and led by the Spirit of God, and raised day by day, year by
year, from the death of sin, to the life of righteousness, from the
likeness of the brute animal, to the likeness of Christ, the Son of Man!


VIII.  ST. PETER; OR, TRUE COURAGE.


   "Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that
   they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took
   knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.  And they called
   them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of
   Jesus.  But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be
   right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God,
   judge ye."--ACTS iv. 13, 18, 19.

I think that the quality, the grace of God, which St. Peter's character
and story specially forces on our notice is courage--the true courage
which comes by faith.  The courage which comes by faith, I say.  There is
a courage which does not come by faith.  There is a brute courage which
comes from hardness of heart; from obstinacy, or anger, or stupidity,
which does not see danger, or does not feel pain.  That is the courage of
the brute.  One does not blame it or call it wrong.  It is good in its
place, as all natural things are which God has made.  It is good enough
for the brute; but it is not good enough for man.  You cannot trust it in
man.  And the more a man is what a man should be, the less he can trust
it.  The more mind and understanding a man has, so as to be able to
foresee danger and measure it, the more chance there is of his brute
courage giving way.  The more feeling a man has, the more keen he is to
feel pain of body, or pain of mind, such as shame, loneliness, the
dislike of ridicule, and the contempt of his fellow-men; in a word, the
more of a man he is, the more chance there is of his brute courage
breaking down, just when he wants it more to keep him up, and leaving him
to play the coward and come to shame.

Yes; to go through with a difficult or dangerous undertaking a man wants
more than brute courage.  He wants spiritual courage, the courage which
comes by faith.  He needs to have faith in what he is doing to be certain
that he is doing his duty--to be certain that he is in the right.  To
give one example.  Look at the class of men who in all England in times
of peace undergo the most fearful dangers; who know not at what hour of
any night they may not be called up to the most serious and hard labour
and responsibility, with the chance of a horrible and torturing death.  I
mean the firemen of our great cities, than whom there are no steadier,
braver, nobler-hearted men.  Not a week passes without one or more of
those firemen, in trying to save life and property, doing things which
are altogether heroic.  What do you fancy keeps them up to their work?
High pay?  The amusement and excitement of the fires?  The vanity of
being praised for their courage?  My friends, those would be but weak and
paltry motives, which would not keep a man's heart calm and his head
clear under such responsibility and danger as theirs.

No; it is the sense of duty.  The knowledge that they are doing a good
and a noble work in saving the lives of human beings and the wealth of
the nation--the knowledge that they are in God's hands, and that no evil
can happen to him who is doing right--that to him even death at his post
is not a loss, but a gain.  In short, faith in God, more or less clear,
is what gives those men their strong and quiet courage.  God grant that
you and I, if ever we have dangerous work to do, may get true courage
from the same fountain of ghostly strength.

Yes; it is the courage which comes by faith which makes truly brave men,
men like St. Peter and St. John, who can say, "If I am right, God is on
my side, I will not fear what men can do unto me."  "I will not fear,"
said David, "though the earth be moved, and the mountains carried into
the midst of the sea."  The just man who holds firm to his duty will not,
says a wise old writer, "be shaken from his solid mind by the rage of the
mob bidding him do base things, or the frown of the tyrant who persecutes
him.  Though the world were to crumble to pieces round him, its ruins
would strike him without making him tremble."

Such courage has made men, shut up in prison for long weary years for
doing what was right, endure manfully for the sake of some great cause,
and say--

   "Stone walls do not a prison make,
      Nor iron bars a cage,
   Minds innocent and quiet take
      That for an hermitage.
   If I have freedom in my thought,
      And in my soul am free,
   Angels alone that soar above
      Enjoy such liberty."

Yes; settle it in your hearts, all of you.  There is but one thing you
have to fear in heaven or earth--being untrue to your better selves, and
therefore untrue to God.  If you will not do the thing you know to be
right, and say the thing you know to be true, then indeed you are weak.
You are a coward, and sin against God.  And you will suffer the penalty
of your cowardice.  You desert God, and therefore you cannot expect Him
to stand by you.  But who will harm you if you be followers of that which
is right?

What does David say:--"Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? who shall
dwell in thy holy hill?  He that walketh uprightly, and worketh
righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart.  He that backbiteth
not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a
reproach against his neighbour.  In whose eyes a vile person is
contemned; but he honoureth them that fear the Lord.  He that sweareth to
his own hurt, and changeth not.  He that putteth not out his money to
usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent.  He that doeth these
things shall never be moved."--Psalm xv. 1-5.  Yes, my friends, there is
a tabernacle of God in which, even in this life, He will hide us from
strife.  There is a hill of God in which, even in the midst of danger,
and labour, and anxiety, we may rest both day and night--even Jesus
Christ, the Rock of Ages--He who is the righteousness itself, the truth
itself.  And whosoever does righteousness and speaks truth, dwells in
Christ in this life, as well as in the life to come.  And Christ will
give him courage to strengthen him by His Holy Spirit, to stand in the
evil day, the day of danger, if it shall come--and having done all to
stand.

Pray you then for the Spirit of Faith to believe really in God, and for
the spirit of ghostly strength to obey God honestly.  No man ever asked
honestly for that Spirit but what he gained it at last.  And no man ever
gained it but what he found the truth of St. Peter's own words--"Who will
harm you, if you be followers of what is good?"


IX.  THE STORY OF JOSEPH.


   "I fear God."  GENESIS xlii. 18.

Did it ever seem remarkable to you, as it has seemed to me, how many
chapters of the Bible are taken up with the history of Joseph--a young
man who, on the most memorable occasion in his life, said "I fear God,"
and had no other argument to use?

Thirteen chapters of the book of Genesis are mainly devoted to the tale
of this one young man.  Doubtless his father Jacob's going down into
Egypt, was one of the most important events in the history of the Jews:
we might expect, therefore, to hear much about it.  But what need was
there to spend four chapters at least in detailing Joseph's meeting with
his brethren, even to minute accounts of the speeches on both sides?

Those who will may suppose that this is the effect of mere chance.  Let
us have no such fancy.  If we believe that a Divine Providence watched
over the composition of those old Scriptures; if we believe that they
were meant to teach, not only the Jews but all mankind; if we believe
that they reveal, not merely some special God in whom the Jews believed,
but the true and only God, Maker of heaven and earth; if we believe, with
St. Paul, that every book of the Old Testament is inspired by God, and
profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in
righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished
unto all good works--if we believe this, I say, it must be worth our
while to look carefully and reverently at a story which takes up so large
a part of the Bible, and expect to find in it something which may help to
make _us_ perfect, and thoroughly furnish _us_ unto all good works.

Now, surely when we look at this history of Joseph, we ought to see at
the first glance that it is not merely a story about a young man, but
about the common human relations--the ties which bind any and every man
to other human beings round him.  For is it not a story about a brother
and brothers? about a son and a father, about a master and a servant?
about a husband and a wife? about a subject and a sovereign? and how they
all behaved to each other--some well and some ill--in these relations?

Surely it is so, and surely this is why the story of Joseph has been
always so popular among innocent children and plain honest folk of all
kinds; because it is so simply human and humane; and therefore it taught
them far more than they could learn from many a lofty, or seemingly
lofty, book of devotion, when it spoke to them of the very duties they
had to fulfil, and the very temptations they had to fight against, as
members of a family or as members of society.  "One touch of Nature (says
the poet) makes the whole world kin;" and the touches of nature in this
story of Joseph make us feel that he and his brethren, and all with whom
he had to do, are indeed kin to us; that their duty is our duty too--their
temptations ours--that where they fell, we may fall--where they conquered
we may conquer.

For what is the story?  A young lad is thrown into every temptation
possible for him.  Joseph is very handsome.  The Bible says so expressly;
so we may believe it.  He has every gift of body and mind.  He is, as his
story proves plainly, a very clever person, with a strange power of
making every one whom he deals with love him and obey him--a terrible
temptation, as all God's gifts are, if abused by a man's vanity, or
covetousness or ambition.  He is an injured man too.  He has been basely
betrayed by his brothers; he is under a terrible temptation, to which
ninety-nine men out of one hundred would have yielded--do yield, alas! to
this day, to revenge himself if he ever has an opportunity.  He is an
injured man in Egypt, for he is a slave to a foreigner who has no legal
or moral right over him.  If ever there was a man who might be excused
for cherishing a burning indignation against his oppressors, for brooding
over his own wrongs, for despairing of God's providence, it is Joseph in
Egypt.  What could we do but pity him if he had said to himself, as
thousands in his place have said since, "There is no God, or if there is,
He does not care for me--He does not care what men do.  He looks on
unmoved at wrong and cruelty, and lets man do even as he will.  Then why
should not _I_ do as _I_ will?  What are these laws of God of which men
talk?  What are these sacred bonds of family and society?  Every one for
himself is the rule of the world, and it shall be _my_ rule.  Every man's
hand has been against _me_; why should not my hand be against every man?
_I_ have been betrayed; why should not _I_ betray?  _I_ have been
opprest; why should not _I_ oppress?  I have a lucky chance, too, of
enjoying and revenging myself at the same time; why should I not take my
good luck, and listen to the words of the tempter?"

My dear friends, this is the way in which thousands have talked, in which
thousands talk to this day.  This is the spirit which ends in breaking up
society, as happened in France eighty years ago, in the inward corruption
of a nation, and at last, in outward revolution and anarchy, from which
may God in His mercy deliver us and our fellow-countrymen, and the
generations yet to come.  But any nation or any man, will only be
delivered from it, as Joseph was delivered from it, by saying, "I fear
God."  No doubt it is most natural for a man who is injured and opprest
to think in that way.  Most _natural_--just as it is most natural for the
trapped dog to struggle vainly, and, in his blind rage, bite at
everything around him, even at his own master's hand when it offers to
set him free.  And if men are to be mere children of nature, like the
animals, and not children of grace and sons of God, like Joseph, and like
one greater than Joseph, then I suppose they must needs tear each other
to pieces in envy and revenge, for there is nought better to be done.  But
if they wish to escape from the misery and ruin which envy and revenge
bring with them, then they had better recollect that they are not
children of nature, but children of God--they had best follow Joseph's
example, and say, "I fear God."

For this poor, betrayed, enslaved lad had got into his heart something
above Nature--something which Nature cannot give, but only the
inspiration of the Spirit of God gives.  He had got into his heart the
belief that God's laws were sacred things and must not be broken, and
that whatever befel him he must fear God.  However unjust and lawless the
world looked, God's laws were still in it, and over it, and would avenge
themselves, and he must obey them at all risks.  And what were God's laws
in Joseph's opinion?

These--the common relations of humanity between master to servant, and
servant to master; between parent to child, and child to parent; brother
to brother and sister to sister, and between the man who is trusted and
the man who trusts him.  These laws were sacred; and if all the rest of
the world broke them, he (Joseph) must not.  He was bound to his master,
not only by any law of man, but by the Law of God.  His master trusted
him, and left all that he had in his hand, and to Joseph the law of
honour was the law of God.  Then he must be justly faithful to his
master.  A sacred trust was laid on him, and to be true to it was to fear
God.

After a while his master's wife tempts him.  He refuses; not merely out
of honour to his master, but from fear of God.  "How can I do this great
wickedness," says Joseph, "and sin against God?"  His master and his
mistress are heathen, but their marriage is of God nevertheless; the vow
is sacred, and he must deny himself anything, endure anything, dare any
danger of a dreadful death, and a prison almost as horrible probably as
death itself, rather than break it.

So again, in the prison.  If ever man had excuse for despairing of God's
providence, for believing that right-doing did _not_ pay, it was poor
Joseph in that prison.  But no.  God is with him still.  He believes
still in the justice of God, the providence of God, and therefore he is
cheerful, active--he can make the best even of a dungeon.  He can find a
duty to do even there; he can make himself useful, helpful, till the
keeper of the prison too leaves everything in his hand.

What a gallant man! you say.  Yes, my friends, but what makes him
gallant?  That which St. Paul says (in Hebrews xi.) made all the old
Jewish heroes gallant--faith in God; real and living belief that God
is--and that He is the rewarder of them that diligently seek Him.

At last Joseph's triumph comes.  He has his reward.  God helps
him--because he will help himself.  He is made a great officer of state,
married to a woman of high rank, probably a princess, and he sees his
brothers who betrayed him at his mercy.  Their lives are in his hand at
last.  What will he do?  Will he be a bad brother because they were bad?
Or will he keep to his old watchword, "I fear God?"  If he is tempted to
revenge himself, he crushes the temptation down.  He will bring his
brothers to repentance.  He will touch their inward witness, and make
them feel that they have been wicked men.  That is for their good.  And
strangely, but most naturally, their guilty consciences go back to the
great sin of their lives--to Joseph's wrong, though they have no notion
that Joseph is alive, much less near them.  "Did I not tell you," says
Reuben, "sin not against the lad, and ye would not hearken?  Therefore is
this distress come upon us."

Joseph punishes Simeon by imprisonment.  It may be that he had reasons
for it which we are not told.  But when his brothers have endured the
trial, and he finds that Benjamin is safe, he has nothing left but
forgiveness.  They are his brethren still--his own flesh and blood.  And
he "fears God."  He dare not do anything but forgive them.  He forgives
them utterly, and welcomes them with an agony of happy tears.  He will
even put out of their minds the very memory of their baseness.  "Now,
therefore, be not grieved nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me
hither, he says; for God sent me before you, to save your lives with a
great deliverance."

Is not that Divine?  Is not that the Spirit of God and of Christ?  I say
it is.  For what is it but the likeness of Christ, who says for ever, out
of heaven, to all mankind, "Be not grieved nor angry with yourselves that
ye crucified me.  For God, my Father, sent me to save your souls by a
great salvation."

My friends, learn from this story of Joseph, and the prominent place in
the Bible which it occupies--learn, I say, how hateful to God are family
quarrels; how pleasant to God are family unity and peace, and mutual
trust, and duty, and helpfulness.  And if you think that I speak too
strongly on this point, recollect that I do no more than St. Paul does,
when he sums up the most lofty and mystical of all his Epistles, the
Epistle to the Ephesians, by simple commands to husbands and wives,
parents and children, masters and servants, as if he should say,--You
wish to be holy? you wish to be spiritual?  Then fulfil these plain
family duties, for they, too, are sacred and divine, and he who despises
them, despises the ordinances of God.  And if you despise the laws of
God, they will surely avenge themselves on you.  If you are bad husbands
or bad wives, bad parents or bad children, bad brothers or sisters, bad
masters or servants, you will smart for it, according to the eternal laws
of God, which are at work around you all day long, making the sinner
punish himself whether he likes or not.

Examine yourselves--ask yourselves, each of you, Have I been a good
brother? have I been a good son? have I been a good husband? have I been
a good father? have I been a good servant?  If not, all professions of
religion will avail me nothing.  If not, let me confess my sins to God,
and repent and amend at once, whatever it may cost me.  The fulfilling
these plain duties is the true test of my faith, the true sign and test
whether I really believe in God and in Jesus Christ our Lord.  Do I
believe that the world is Christ's making? and that Christ is governing
it?  Do I believe that these plain family relationships are Christ's
sacred appointments?  Do I believe that our Lord Jesus was made very man
of the substance of His mother, to sanctify these family relationships,
and claim them as the ordinances of God His Father?

In one word--copy Joseph; and when you are tempted say with Joseph, "Can
I do this great wickedness, and sin--not against this man or this woman,
but against--_God_."

Take home these plain, practical words.  Take them home, and fear God at
your own firesides.  For at the last day, the Bible tells us, the Lord
Jesus Christ will not reward you and me according to the opinions we held
while in this mortal body, whether they were quite right or quite wrong,
but according to the deeds which we did in the body, whether they were
good or bad.


X.  SLAVES OF FREE?


   "Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he
   will show to you to-day: for the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day,
   ye shall see them again no more for ever.  The Lord shall fight for
   you, and ye shall hold your peace."--EXODUS xiv. 13, 14.

Why did God bring the Jews out of Egypt?  God Himself told them why.  To
fulfil the promise which He made to Abraham, their forefather, that of
his children He would make a great nation.

Now the Jews in Egypt were not a nation at all.  A nation is free,
governed by its own laws, one body of people, held together by one fellow
feeling, one language, one blood, one religion; as we English are.  We
are a nation.  The Jews were none in Egypt, no more than Negro slaves in
America were a nation.  They served a people of a different blood, as the
Jews did in Egypt.  They had no laws of their own; they had no fellow-
feeling with each other, which enabled them to make common cause
together, and help each other, and free each other.

Selfishness and cowardice make some men slaves.  Above all, ungodliness
makes men slaves.  For when men do not fear and obey God, they are sure
to obey their own lusts and passions, and become slaves to them.  They
become ready to sell themselves soul and body for money, or pleasure, or
food.  And their fleshly lusts, their animal appetites, keep them down,
selfish, divided, greedy, and needy, at the mercy of those who are
stronger and cunninger than themselves, just as the Jews were kept down
by the strong and cunning Egyptians.

They had slavish hearts in them, and as long as they had, God could not
make them into a nation.  The Jews _had_ slaves' hearts in them.  They
were glad enough to get free out of Egypt, to escape from their heavy
labour in brick and mortar, from being oppressed, beaten, killed at the
will and fancy of the Egyptians, from having their male children thrown
into the river as soon as they were born, to keep them from becoming too
numerous.  They were glad enough, poor wretches, to escape from all their
misery and oppression of which we read in the first three chapters of
Exodus.  But if they could do that, that was all they cared for.  They
did not want to be made wise, righteous, strong, free-hearted--they did
not care about being made into a nation.  We read that when by the Red
Sea shore (Exodus xiv.), they saw themselves in great danger, the army of
Pharaoh, King of Egypt, following close upon them to attack them, they
lost heart at once, and were sore afraid, and cried unto Moses, "Is not
this the word which we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone that
we may serve the Egyptians?  For it had been better for us to serve the
Egyptians than to die in the wilderness."

Cowards and slaves!  The thing they feared above all, you see, was death.
If they could but keep the miserable life in their miserable bodies, they
cared for nothing beyond.  They were willing to see their children taken
from them and murdered, willing to be beaten, worked like dumb beasts for
other men's profit, willing to be idolaters, heathens, worshipping the
false gods of Egypt, dumb beasts and stocks and stones, willing to be
despised, wretched, helpless slaves--if they could but keep the dear life
in them.  God knows there are plenty like them now-a-days--plenty who do
not care how mean, helpless, wicked, contemptible they are, if they can
but get their living by their meanness.

"_But a man must live_," says some one.  How often one hears that made
the excuse for all sorts of meanness, dishonesty, grasping tyranny.  "_A
man must live_!"  Who told you that?  It is better to die like a man than
to live like a slave, and a wretch, and a sinner.  Who told you that, I
ask again?  Not God's Bible, surely.  Not the example of great and good
men.  If Moses had thought that, do you think he would have gone back
from Midian, when he was in safety and comfort, with a wife and home, and
children at his knee, and leave all he had on earth to face Pharaoh and
the Egyptians, to face danger, perhaps a cruel death in shame and
torture, and all to deliver his countrymen out of Egypt?  Moses would
sooner die like a man helping his countrymen, than live on the fat of the
land while they were slaves.  And forty years before he had shown the
same spirit too, when though he was rich and prosperous, and high in the
world, the adopted son of King Pharaoh's daughter (Exodus ii. 11), he
disdained to be a slave and to see his countrymen slaves round him.  We
read how he killed an Egyptian, who was ill-treating one of his brothers,
the Jews--and how he then fled out of Egypt into Midian, houseless and
friendless, esteeming as St. Paul says, "the reproach of Christ"--that is
the affliction and ill-will which came on him for doing right, "better
than all the treasures of Egypt" (Heb xi. 24-27).

_A man must live_?  The valiant Tyrolese of old did not say that (more
than seventy years ago), when they fought to the last drop of their blood
to defend their country against the French invaders.  They were not
afraid to die for liberty; and therefore they won honour from all
honourable men, praise from all whose praise is worth having for ever.

_A man must live_?  The old Greeks and Romans, heathens though they were,
were above so mean a speech as that.  They used to say, it was the
noblest thing that can befall a man to die--not to live in clover, eating
and drinking at his ease--to die among the foremost, fighting for wife
and child and home.

_A man must live_?  The martyrs of old did not say that, when they
endured the prison and the scourge, the sword and the fire, and chose
rather to die in torments unspeakable than deny the Lord Jesus who bought
them with His blood, rather than do what they knew to be _wrong_.
(Hebrews xi.)  They were not afraid of torture and death; but of doing
wrong they were unspeakably afraid.  They were _free_, those holy men of
old, truly free--free from their own love of ease and cowardice and
selfishness, and all that drags a man down and makes a slave of him.  They
knew that "life is more than meat, and the body more than raiment."  What
matter if a man gain the whole world and lose his own soul?  Their souls
were free whatever happened to their bodies--the tormentor could not
touch _them_, because they believed in God, because they did not fear
those who could kill the body, and after that had no more that they could
do.

And do you not see that a coward can never be free, never be godly, never
be like Christ?  For by a coward I mean not merely a man who is afraid of
pain and trouble.  Every one is that more or less.  Jesus Himself was
afraid when He cried in agony, "Father, if thou be willing, remove this
cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done." (Luke xxii.
42.)  But a coward is a man who is so much afraid that to escape pain and
danger, he will do what he _ought not_--do what he is ashamed of doing--do
what lowers him; and therefore our Lord Jesus had perfect courage when He
tasted death for all men, and endured the very agony from which He
shrank, and while He said, "Father, if it be possible, let this cup
pass," said also, "Nevertheless not my will, but Thine, be done."

The Jews were cowards when they cried, "Let us alone that we may serve
the Egyptians."  While a man is in that pitiful mood he cannot rise, he
cannot serve God--for he must remain the slave of his own body, of which
he is so mightily careful, the slave of his own fears, the slave of his
own love of bodily comfort.  Such a man does not _dare_ serve God.  He
dare not obey God, when obeying God is dangerous and unpleasant.  He dare
not claim his heavenly birthright, his share in God's Spirit, his share
in Christ's kingdom, because that would bring discomfort on him, because
he will have to give up the sins he loves, because he will have to endure
the insults and ill-will of wicked men.  Thus cowards can never be free,
for it is only where the Spirit of God is that there is liberty.

But the Jews were not yet fit to be made soldiers of.  God would not
teach them at once not to be afraid of men.  He did not command them to
turn again and fight these Egyptians, neither did He lead them into the
land of Canaan the strait and short road, through the country of the
Philistines, lest they should be discouraged when they saw war.

Now what was God's plan for raising the Jews out of this cowardly,
slavish state?  First, and above all, to make them trust in _Him_.  While
they were fearing the Egyptians, they could never fear Him.  While they
were fearing the Egyptians, they were ready to do every base thing, to
keep their masters in good humour with them.  God determined to teach
them to fear Him more than they feared the Egyptians.  God taught them
that He was stronger than the Egyptians, for all their civilisation and
learning and armies, chariots and horsemen, swords and spears.  He would
not let the Jews fight the Egyptians.  He told them by the mouth of
Moses, "Stand you still, and the Lord shall fight for you," and he
commanded Moses to stretch out his rod over the sea. (Exodus xiv.)  The
Egyptians were stronger than the Jews--they would have cut them to pieces
if they had come to a battle.  For free civilised men like the Egyptians
are always stronger than slaves, like the Jews; they respect themselves
more, they hold together better, they have order and discipline, and
obedience to their generals, which slaves have not.  God intended to
teach the Jews that also in His good time.  But not yet.  They were not
fit yet to be made soldiers.  They were not even _men_ yet, but miserable
slaves.  A man is only a true man when he trusts in God, and none but
God--when he fears God and nothing _but_ God.  And that was the lesson
which God had to teach them.  That was the lesson which He taught them by
bringing them up out of Egypt by signs and wonders, that _God was the
Lord_, _God_ was their deliverer, _God_ was their King--that let _them_
be as weak as they might, _He_ was strong--that if they could not fight
the Egyptians God could overwhelm them--that if they could not cross the
sea, God could open the sea to let them pass through.  If they dreaded
the waste howling wilderness of sand, with its pillars of cloud and fire,
its stifling winds which burn the life out of man and beast, God could
make the sand storms and the fire pillars and the deadly east wind of the
desert work for their deliverance.  And so He taught them to fear
Himself, to trust in Him, to look up to Him as their deliverer whose
strength was shown most gloriously when they were weakest and most
despairing.

This was the great lesson which God meant to teach the children of
Israel, that the root and ground of all other lessons, is that this earth
belongs to the Lord alone.  That had been what God had been teaching them
already, by the plagues of Egypt.  The Egyptians worshipped their great
river Nile, and thought it was a god, and the Lord turned the Nile water
into blood, and showed that He could do what He liked with it.  The
Egyptians worshipped dumb beasts and insects, and fancied in their folly
that they were gods.  The Lord sent plagues of frogs and flies and
locusts, and took them away again when He liked, to show them that the
beasts and creeping things were His also.

The Egyptians worshipped false gods who as they fancied managed the
seasons and the weather.  God sent them thunder and hail when it pleased
Him, and showed the Jews that _He_, not these false gods of Egypt, ruled
the heavens.  The Egyptians and many other heathen nations of the earth
used to offer their children to false gods.  I do not mean by killing
them in sacrifice, but by naming them after some idol, and then expecting
that the idol would ever afterwards prosper and strengthen them.  Thus
the kings were called after the sun.  Pharaoh means the Sun-king; for
they fancied that the sun was a god, and protected their kings one after
the other.  And God slew all the first-born of Egypt, even the first-born
of King Pharaoh on his throne.  The Sun-god could not help him.  The
idols of Egypt could not take care of their worshippers--only the
children of the Jews escaped. (Exodus xii.)  What a lesson for the Jews!
And they needed it; for during the four hundred years that they had been
in Egypt they had almost forgotten the one true God, the God of their
forefathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; at least they thought Him no
better than the false gods of Egypt.  After all these wondrous proofs of
God's almighty power, and His jealousy for His own name, they fell away
to idols again and again.  They worshipped a golden calf in Horeb (Exodus
xxxii.); they turned aside to worship the idols of the nations whom they
passed through on their way to Canaan.  Idolatry had been rooted in their
hearts, and it took many years of severe training and teaching on God's
part to drive it out of them--to make them feel that the one God, who
made heaven and earth, had delivered them--that they belonged to Him,
that they had a share in Him--to make them join with one heart and voice
in the glorious song of Moses:

"I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse
and his rider hath he thrown into the sea.  The Lord is my strength and
song and he is become my salvation: he is my God and I will prepare him
an habitation; my father's God, and I will exalt him.  The Lord is a man
of war: the Lord is his name.  Pharaoh's chariots and his host hath he
cast into the sea: his chosen captains also are drowned in the Red Sea.
The depths have covered them: they sank into the bottom as a stone.  Thy
right hand, O Lord, is become glorious in power: thy right hand, O Lord,
hath dashed in pieces the enemy.  And in the greatness of thine
excellency thou hast overthrown them that rose up against thee: thou
sentest forth thy wrath, which consumed them as stubble.  And with the
blast of thy nostrils the waters were gathered together, the floods stood
upright as an heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the
sea.  The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the
spoil; my lust shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, my
hand shall deliver them.  Thou didst blow with thy wind, the sea covered
them: they sank as lead in the mighty waters.  Who is like unto thee, O
Lord, among the gods? who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in
praises, doing wonders?  Thou stretchedst out thy right hand, the earth
swallowed them.  Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people which thou
hast redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy strength unto thy holy
habitation.  The people shall hear, and be afraid: sorrow shall take hold
on the inhabitants of Palestina.  Then the dukes of Edom shall be amazed;
the mighty men of Moab, trembling shall take hold upon them; all the
inhabitants of Canaan shall melt away.  Fear and dread shall fall upon
them; by the greatness of thine arm they shall be as still as a stone;
till thy people pass over, O Lord, till the people pass over, which thou
hast purchased.  Thou shalt bring them in and plant them in the mountain
of thine inheritance, in the place, O Lord, which thou hast made for thee
to dwell in, in the Sanctuary, O Lord, which thy hands have established.
The Lord shall reign for ever and ever.  For the horse of Pharaoh went in
with his chariots and with his horsemen into the sea, and the Lord
brought again the waters of the sea upon them; but the children of Israel
went on dry land in the midst of the sea." (Exodus xv. 1-19.)

This was God's first lesson to the Jews; the first step towards making
them a free nation.  For believe me, my friends, the only thought which
can make men feel free and strong, the only thought which can keep them
from being afraid of each other, afraid of the seasons, and the elements,
and the chances and changes of this mortal life, the only thought which
can teach them that they are brothers, bound together to help and love
each other, in short the only thought which can make men citizens--is the
thought that the one God is their Father, and that they are all His
children--that they have one God, one religion, one baptism, one Lord and
Saviour, who has delivered them, and will deliver them again and again
from all their sins and miseries; one God and Father of all, who is in
all, and for all, and over all, to whom they all owe equal duty, in whom
they all have an equal share.

That lesson God began to teach the Jews by the Red Sea.  That lesson God
has taught our English forefathers again and again; and that lesson He
will teach us, their children, as often as we forget it, by signs and
wonders, by chastisements and by mercies, till we all learn to trust in
Him and Him only, and know that there is none other name under heaven by
which we can be saved from evil in this life or in the life to come, but
the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Angel of the Covenant, who
led the Jews up out of the land of Egypt.


XI.  DANGERS--AND THE LITANY.


   "Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them
   out of their distresses.  And he led them forth by the right way, that
   they might go to a city of habitation.  Oh that men would praise the
   Lord for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of
   men."--PSALM cvii. 6-8.

This 107th Psalm is a noble psalm--a psalm which has given comfort to
thousands in suffering and in danger, even in the sorrows which they have
brought on themselves by their own folly.  For it tells them of a Lord
who hears them when they cry to Him in their trouble, and who delivers
them from their distress.

It was written on a special occasion, as all the most important words of
the Bible are written--written seemingly, after some band of Jews
struggling across the desert, on their return from the captivity in
Babylon, had been in great danger of death.  They went astray in the
wilderness out of their way, and found no city to rest in; hungry and
thirsty their soul fainted in them, so they cried unto the Lord in their
trouble, and He delivered them from their distress.  He led them forth by
the right way, that they might go to the city where they dwelt.  That was
the plain fact, on which the psalmist built up this noble psalm.

In the blazing sandy desert, without water, food, or shade, they had lost
their path, and were at their wit's end.  And they cried unto the Lord
their God for guidance, for they could not guide themselves.  And the
Lord answered their prayer and guided them.  We do not read that God
worked a miracle for them, or sent an angel to lead them.  Simply,
somehow or other, they found their way after all, and got safe out of the
desert; and they believed that it was God who enabled them to find their
way, and praised the Lord for His goodness; and for His goodness not only
to them, but to the children of men--to all men who had the sense to call
on Him in trouble, and to put themselves in their right place as
men--God's children, calling for help to their Father in heaven.

Therefore the psalmist goes on to speak of the cases of God's goodness,
which he seems to have seen, or at least heard of.  Of wretched
prisoners, bound fast in misery and iron, and that through their own
fault and folly, who had cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and been
delivered by Him from the darkness of the dungeon.  Of foolish men who
had ruined their health, or at least their prospects in life, by their
own sin and folly, till their soul abhorred all manner of meat, and they
were hard at death's door.  But of them, too, he says, when they cried
unto the Lord in their trouble, He delivered them from their distress.  He
sent His word--what we now foolishly call the laws of Nature, but which
the Psalmist knew to be the ever-working power and providence of God--and
healed them, and they were saved from their destruction.

Then he goes on to speak of the dangers of the sea which were especially
strange and terrible to him--a Jew.  For the Jews were no sailors; and if
they went to sea, would go as merchants, or supercargoes in ships manned
by heathens; and the danger was really great.  The ships were clumsy;
navigation was ill-understood; the storms of the Mediterranean sea were
then as now, sudden and furious; and when one came on, the heathen
sailors would, I doubt not, be at their wit's end, their courage melting
away because of the trouble, and call on all their gods and idols to help
them; but the men of whom the Psalmist speaks, though they were no
seamen, knew on whom to call.  It was by the word of the Lord that the
stormy wind arose which lifted up the billows.  He could quell the storm
if He would, and when He would; and to Him they cried and not in vain.
"And He made the storm to cease so that the waves thereof were still.
Then were they glad, because they were at rest, and so He brought them to
the haven where they would be."

My friends, this was the simple faith of the old Jews.  And this was the
simple faith of our forefathers by land and sea.  And this faith, as I
believe, made England great.  The faith that there was a living God, a
living Lord, who would hear the cry of poor creatures in their trouble,
even when they had brought their trouble on themselves.  Our forefathers
were not mere landsmen like the Jews, but the finest seamen the world has
ever seen.  And yet they were not ashamed in storm and danger to cry like
the Jews unto the Lord, that He might make the storm to cease, and bring
them to the haven where they would be.  Yes! faith in God did not make
them the less brave, skilful, cautious, scientific; and it need not make
us so.  Skill and science need not take away our faith in God.  I trust
it will not take it away, and I believe it will not take it away, as long
as we can hear what I once heard, on board of one of the finest men of
war {80a} in the British Navy--the ship in which and from which, all
British sailors may learn their duty--when I saw some six or eight
hundred men mustered on the deck for daily morning prayer, and heard the
noble old prayer, which our forefathers have handed down to us, to be
said every day in Her Majesty's navy: {80b}

"O eternal God who alone spreadest out the heavens, and rulest the raging
of the sea; who hast compassed the waters with bounds, until day and
night come to an end; be pleased to receive into Thy Almighty and most
gracious protection, the persons of us Thy servants, and the fleet in
which we serve.  Preserve us from the dangers of the sea, and from the
violence of the enemy, that we may be a safeguard unto our most gracious
Sovereign Lady Queen Victoria and her dominions, and a security for such
as pass on the seas upon their lawful occasions; that the inhabitants of
our island may in peace and quietness serve Thee our God, and that we may
return in safety to enjoy the blessings of the land, with the fruits of
our labours, and with a thankful remembrance of Thy mercies, to praise
and glorify Thy holy name; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  Amen."

Then, as I stood upon that deck, and heard that solemn appeal to God,
before each man went about his appointed duty for the day, said I to
myself, "The ancient spirit is not dead.  It may be that it is sleeping
in these prosperous times.  But it is not dead, as long as this nation by
those prayers confesses that we ought at least to believe in a God who
hears our prayers, by land and sea.  Those grand words were perhaps
nothing but a form to most of the men who heard them.  But they were a
form which bore witness to a truth which was true, even if they forgot
it--a truth which they might need some day, and feel the need of, and
cling to, as the sailors of old time clung to it.  Those words would
surely sink into the men's ears, and some day, it might be, bear fruit in
their hearts.  In storm, in wreck, in battle, and in the hour of death,
and in the day of judgment, these words would surely rise in many a brave
fellow's memory, and help him to do his duty like a man, because there
was a living Lord and God above him who knew his weakness and would hear
his prayers."

And we, my friends, here safe on land, we have a national prayer, or
rather a series of prayers, to Christ as God, which ought to remind us of
that noble truth which the 107th Psalm is meant to teach.  You hear it
all of you every Sunday morning.  I mean the Litany.  That noble
composition, which seems to me more wise as a work of theology, more
beautiful as a work of art, the oftener I use it--That Litany, I say, is
modelled on the 107th Psalm; and it expresses the very heart and spirit
of our forefathers three hundred years ago.  It bids us pray to be
delivered from every conceivable harm, to Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
And then it prays for every conceivable blessing, not only for each of us
separately, but for this whole nation of England, Great Britain, and
Ireland, and for all the nations on earth, and for the heathen and the
savage.

Of course, just because it is a National prayer, and meant for all
Englishmen alike, all of it does not suit each and every one of us at the
same time.  Each heart knows its own bitterness.  Each soul has its own
special mercy to ask.  But there is a word in the Litany here, and
another there, which will fit each of us in turn, if we will but follow
it.  One may have to pray to be delivered from pride, vain-glory, and
hypocrisy--another to be delivered from foul living and deadly
sin--another to be delivered, or to have those whom he loves delivered,
from battle, murder, and sudden death.  Another to be delivered from the
dangers of affliction and tribulation; another from the far worse danger
of wrath; but all have to pray to be delivered from something.  And all
have to pray to the same deliverer--Christ, who was born a Man, died a
man, and rose again a man, that He might know what was in man, and be
able to succour those who are tempted, seeing that He was tempted in all
things like as we are, yet without sin.

But there is a part--the latter part--of that Litany which, I think, many
do not understand or feel.  Perhaps they have reason to thank God that
they do not understand or feel it; yet, the day may come--a day of
sadness, fear, perplexity, sorrow, when they will understand it, and
thank God that their forefathers placed it in the prayer-book, for them
to fall back upon, as comfort and hope in the day of trouble; putting
words into their mouths and thoughts into their hearts, which they,
perhaps, never would have found out for themselves.

I mean that latter part of the Litany which talks of the evils which the
craft and subtilty of the devil or men work against us, that they may be
brought to nought, and by the providence of God's goodness be dispersed,
that we may be hurt by no persecutions--which calls on Christ to arise
and deliver us, for His name's sake and His honour, which pleads before
God the noble works which He did in the days of our forefathers; and
which continues with short prayers, almost cries, which have something in
them of terror, almost of agony.  What have such words to do with us?  Why
are they put into the mouths of us English, safe, comfortable,
prosperous, above almost all the nations upon earth?

Ah! my friends, those prayers, when they were first put into our prayer-
book, were spoken for the hearts of Englishmen.  They were not prayers
for one afflicted person here, and another there,--they, too, were
National prayers.  They were the cries of the English nation in agony--in
the time when, three hundred years ago, the mightiest nations and powers
of Europe, temporal and spiritual, were set against this little isle of
England, and we expected not merely to be invaded and conquered, but
destroyed utterly and horribly with sword and fire, by the fleets and
armies of the King of Spain.  In that great danger and war our
forefathers cried to God; and they cried all the more earnestly, because
they felt that their hands were not clean; that they had plenty and too
many sins to be "mercifully forgiven," and that at best they could but
ask God "mercifully to look upon their infirmities," and, "for the glory
of His name, turn from them those evils which they most righteously had
deserved."  But nevertheless they cried unto God in their great agony,
because they had the spirit of the old Psalmist, who said, "They cried
unto the Lord in their trouble, and He delivered them out of their
distress."

And what answer God made to their prayers all the world knows, or should
know.  For if He had not answered their prayer, we should not be here
this day, a great, and strong, and prosperous nation, with a pure Church
and a free Gospel, and the Holy Bible if he wills, in the hands of the
poorest child.  Unless prayer be a dream, and there be no God in heaven
worth calling a God--then did God answer the prayers of our forefathers
three hundred years ago, when they cried unto Him as one nation in their
utter need.

But some will say--this may be all very true and very fine, but we are in
no such utter need now.  Why should we use those prayers?

My dear friends, let me say, if you are not now in utter need, in terror,
anxiety, danger, if you have no need to cry to Christ, "Graciously look
upon our afflictions; pitifully behold the sorrows of our hearts," how do
you know that there is not some one in any and every congregation who is?
And you and I, if we have said the Litany in spirit and in truth, have
been praying for them.  The Litany bids us speak as members of a Church,
as citizens of a nation, bound together by the ties of blood and of laws,
as well as self-interest.  The Litany bids us say, not selfishly and
apart, Graciously look on _my_ afflictions, but on _our_ afflictions--the
afflictions of every English man, and woman, and child, who is in
trouble, or ever will be in trouble _hereafter_.  Oh, remember this last
word.  Generations long since dead and buried have prayed for you, and
God has heard their prayers; and now you have been praying for your
children, and your children's children, and generations yet unborn, that,
if ever a dark day should come over England, a time of want and danger
and perplexity and misery, God would deliver them in their turn out of
their distress.  And more; you have been teaching your children, that
they may teach their children in turn, and pray and cry to God in their
trouble; and thus this grand old Litany is to us, and to those we shall
leave behind us a precious National heir-loom, teaching us and them the
lesson of the 107th Psalm--that there is a Lord in heaven who hears the
prayers of men, the sinful as well as the sorrowful, that when they cry
unto the Lord in their trouble, He delivers them out of their distress,
and that men should therefore praise the Lord for His goodness, and
declare the wonders which He doeth for the children of men.


XII.  WILD TIMES, OR DAVID'S FAITH IN A LIVING GOD.


   "David therefore departed thence, and escaped to the cave Adullam: and
   when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down
   thither to him.  And every one that was in distress, and every one
   that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered
   themselves unto him; and he became a captain over them: and there were
   with him about four hundred men."--1 SAM. xxii. 1, 2.

In every country, at some time or other, there have been evil days--days
of violence, tyranny, misrule, war, invasion, when men are too apt, for
want of settled law, to take the law into their own hands; and the land
is full of robbers, outlaws, bands of partizans and irregular
soldiers--wild times, in which wild things are done.

Of such times we here in England have had no experience, and we forget
how common they are; we forget that many great nations have been in this
state again and again.  We forget that almost all Europe was in that wild
and lawless state in our fathers' times, and therefore we forget that the
Bible, which tells man his whole duty, must needs tell men about such
times as those, and how a man may do his duty, and save his soul therein.
For the Bible is every man's book, and has its lesson for every man.  It
is meant not merely for comfortable English folk, who sit at home at
ease, under just laws and a good government.  An event befalls a dog
and, when the dog is through with it, the event is what it was before.
The dog has done nothing to it. But the same event befalls a man and at
once something begins to happen to it. It is clothed in the man's thought
about it; it is dressed in his appreciation and understanding; it is
transformed by his interpretations. The event comes out of that
man's life something altogether different from what it was when it went
in. The man can do almost anything with that event. For our experiences
do not fall into our lives in single lumps, like meteors from a distant
sky of fate; our experiences always are made up of the fortunes that befall
us and the interpretations that we give to them.

So far as the relative importance of these two factors is concerned, we
may see the truth in the application of our thought to happiness. If
there is any area in human experience where the outward circumstance might
be supposed to control the results, it is the realm of happiness; yet
probably nine-tenths of the problem of happiness lies, not in the outward
event, but in the inward interpretation. If we could describe those
conditions in which the happiest people whom we have known have lived,
can any one imagine the diversity of environment that would be represented
in our accounts? Let them move in procession before the eyes of our
imagination, those happy folk whose friendship has been the benediction
of our lives! What a motley company they are! For some are blind, and some
are crippled, and some are invalid; not many are rich and fortunate;
many are poor--a company of handicapped but radiant spirits whose
victorious lives, like the burning bush which Moses saw, have made
in a desert a spot of holy ground.

If, now, we ask why it is that happiness can be so amazingly independent
of outward circumstance, this is the answer: every experience has two
factors, the fortune that befalls and the inward interpretation of it;
and, while we often cannot control the fortune, we always can help
with the interpretation. That is in our power. That is the throne of our
sovereignty over our lives.

III
The deep need of a worthy interpretation of life is just as urgent
in a world where the idea of progress reigns as in any other, and
to supply that need is one of the major functions of religion.

For religion is something more than all the creeds that have endeavoured
to express its thought. Religion is something more than all the organizations
that have tried to incarnate its purposes. Religion is the human
spirit, by the grace of God, seeking and finding an interpretation of
experience that puts sense and worth, dignity, elevation, joy, and
hope into life.

A body of students recently requested an address upon the subject:
"What is the use of religion anyway?" The group of ideas behind the
question is not hard to guess: that science gives us all the facts, that
facts and their laws are all we need, that the scientific control of
life guarantees progress, and that religion therefore is superfluous.
But in such a statement one towering interrogation has been neglected:
what about the interpretation of the very facts which science does present?
Could not one address himself to the question of those students in
some such way as this? You say that science has disclosed to us the
leisureliness of the evolving universe. Come back, then, on the long
road to the rear on which Bishop Usher's old date of creation is a way
station an infinitesimal distance behind us; come back until together
we stand at the universe's postern gate and look out into the
mystery whence all things came, where no scientific investigation
can ever go, where no one knows the facts.

What do you make of it? Two voices rise in answer. One calls the world
"a mechanical process, in which we may discover no aim or purpose whatever."
[2] And another voice says:

"The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament showeth his
handiwork." [3]
That is not a difference in facts, upon which we can get our hands.
That is a difference in the interpretation of the facts.

Or come forward together to look into that mystery ahead, toward
which this universe and we within it are so prodigiously plunging on. Do
we not often feel, upon this earth whirling through space, like men and
women who by some weird chance have found themselves upon a ship,
ignorant of their point of departure and of their destination? For all the
busyness with which we engage in many tasks, we cannot keep ourselves
from slipping back at times to the ship's stern to look out along its
wake and wonder whence we came, or from going at times also to its prow
to wonder whither we are headed. What do you make of it?
Toward what sort of haven is this good ship earth sailing--a port fortunate
or ill?

Or may it be there is no haven, only endless sailing on an endless sea
by a ship that never will arrive? So questioning, we listen to
conflicting voices. One says there is no future except ultimate
annihilation, and another voice sings:

"All we have willed or hoped or dreamed of good, shall exist."

That is not a difference in the facts, that eyes can see and hands
handle; that is a difference in the interpretation of the facts.

Or from such large considerations come down into some familiar experience
of daily life. Here is a man having a hard battle between right and
wrong. There is no more impressive sight on earth to one who looks at
it with understanding eyes. What do you make of this mysterious sense
of duty which lays its magisterial hand upon us and will not be denied?
At once various voices rise. Haeckel says the sense of duty is a
"long series of phyletic modifications of the phronema of the cortex." [4]
That is his interpretation. And Wordsworth:

"Stern Daughter of the Voice of God!
O Duty!"
This sharp contrast is not a difference between facts, which can be pinned
down as the Lilliputians pinned down Gulliver; it is a difference in
the interpretation of the facts.

Or let us go together up some high hill from which we can look out upon
the strange history of humankind. We see its agonies and wars, its
rising empires followed by their ruinous collapse, and yet a mysterious
advance, too, as though mankind, swinging up a spiral, met old questions
upon a higher level, so that looking back to the Stone Age, for all the
misery of this present time, we would be rather here than there. What can
we make of it? Hauptmann's Michael Kramer says "All this life is the
shuddering of a fever." And Paul says, "the eternal purpose which he
purposed in Christ." That is not a difference in the facts. It is a
difference in the interpretation of the facts.

Yet once more, come into the presence of death. The facts that human eyes
can see are plain enough, but what can we make of it--this standing on
the shore, waving farewell to a friendly ship that loses itself
over the rim of the world? Says Thomson of the world's treatment of man,

"It grinds him some slow years of bitter breath, Then grinds him back
into eternal death."
And Paul says: "This corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal
must put on immortality. But when this corruptible shall have put on
incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall
come to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory."
That is not a contrast between facts; that is a contrast between
interpretations of facts.

Is it not plain why religion has such an unbreakable hold upon the human
mind? The funeral of Christianity has been predicted many times but each
time the deceased has proved too lively for the obsequies. In the middle
of the eighteenth century they said that Christianity had one foot in the
grave, but then came the amazing revival of religious life under the
Wesleys. In the middle of the last century one wiseacre said, "In fifty
years your Christianity will have died out"; yet, for all our failures,
probably Christianity in all its history has never made more progress
than in the last half century.

If you ask why, one reason is clear: man cannot live in a universe of
uninterpreted facts.
The scientific approach to life is not enough. It does not cover all
the ground. Men want to know what life spiritually means and they want
to know that it "means intensely, and means good." Facts alone are like
pieces of irritating grit that get into the oyster shell; the pearl of
life is created by the interpretations which the facts educe.

In this difference between the facts of experience and their interpretations
lies the secret of the contrast between our two words _existence_ and
_life_. Even before we define the difference, we feel it. To exist
is one thing; to live is another.

Existence is comprised of the bare facts of life alone--the universe
in which we live, our heritage and birth, our desires and their
satisfactions, growth, age and death.

   All the facts that science can display before us comprise existence.
   But life is something more. Life is existence clothed in spiritual
   meanings; existence seen with a worthy purpose at the heart of it
   and hope ahead, existence informed by the spirit's insights and
understandings, transfigured and glorified by the spirit's faiths
and hopes.

It follows, therefore, that while existence is given us to start with,
life is a spiritual achievement. A man must take the facts of his
existence whether he wants to or not, but he makes his life by the
activity of his soul. The facts of existence are like so much loose
type, which can be set up to many meanings.

One man leaves those facts in chaotic disarrangement or sets them up into
cynical affirmations, and he exists. But another man takes the same facts
and by spiritual insight makes them mean gloriously, and he lives
indeed.
To suppose that mankind ever can be satisfied with existence only and can
be called off from the endeavour to achieve this more abundant life, is
utterly to misconceive the basic facts of human nature. And this profound
need for a spiritual interpretation of life is not satisfied by an idea of
temporal progress, stimulated by a few circumstances which predispose
our minds to immediate expectancy.

IV

When, therefore, any one asserts the adequacy of the scientific approach
to life, one answer stands ready to our hand: science deals primarily
with facts and their laws, not with their spiritual interpretations. To
put the same truth in another way, science deals with one specially
abstracted aspect of the facts; it drains them of their qualitative elements
and, reducing them to their quantitative elements, it proceeds to weigh
and measure them and state their laws.
It moves in the realm of actualities and not in the realm of values.
One science, for example, takes a gorgeous sunset and reduces it to the
constituent ether waves that cause the colour. What it says about the
sunset is true, but it is not the whole truth. Ask anybody who has
ever seen the sun riding like a golden galleon down the western sea!

Another science takes a boy and reduces him to his Bertillon measurements
and at the top of the statistics writes his name, "John Smith." That is
the truth about John Smith, but it is not the whole truth. Ask his
mother and see! Another science takes our varied and vibrant mental
life and reduces it to its physical basis and states its laws. That
is the truth about our mental life, but it is not the whole truth. What
is more, it is not that part of the truth by which men really live. For
men live by love and joy and hope and faith and spiritual insight.

When these things vanish life is
"a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing."

When a man takes that quantitative aspect of reality, which is the special
province of natural science, as though it were the whole of reality, he
finds himself in a world where the physical forces are in control.
We, ourselves, according to this aspect of life, are the product
of physical forces--marionettes, dancing awhile because physical
forces are pulling on the strings.

In a word, when a man takes that quantitative aspect of reality, which
natural science presents, as though it were the whole of reality, he becomes
a materialistic fatalist, and on that basis we cannot permanently build
either personal character or a stable civilization.

It is not difficult, then, to see one vital significance of Jesus Christ:
he has given us the most glorious interpretation of life's meaning
that the sons of men have ever had. The fatherhood of God, the friendship
of the Spirit, the sovereignty of righteousness, the law of love, the
glory of service, the coming of the Kingdom, the eternal hope--there
never was an interpretation of life to compare with that. If life often
looks as though his interpretation were too good to be true, we need
not be surprised. Few things in the universe _are_ as superficially
they _look_. The earth looks flat and, as long as we gaze on it, it never
will look any other way, but it is spherical for all that. The earth
looks stationary and if we live to be as old as Methuselah we never
will see it move, but it is moving--seventy-five times faster than
a cannon ball!

The sun looks as though it rose in the east and set in the west, and we
never can make it look any other way, but it does not rise nor set at
all. So far as this earth is concerned, the sun is standing still enough.
We look as though we walked with our heads up and our feet down, and
we never can make ourselves look otherwise, but someone finding a safe
stance outside this whirling sphere would see us half the time walking
with our heads down and our feet up. Few things are ever the way
they look, and the end of all scientific research, as of all spiritual
insight, is to get behind the way things look to the way things are.
Walter Pater has a rememberable phrase, "the hiddenness of perfect things."
One meaning, therefore, which Christ has for Christians lies in the
realm of spiritual interpretation. He has done for us there what
Copernicus and Galileo did in astronomy: he has moved us out from our
flat earth into his meaningful universe, full of moral worth and hope.
He has become to us in this, our inner need, what the luminous
phrase of the Book of Job describes, "An interpreter, one among a
thousand."

And in spite of all our immediate expectancy, born out of our scientific
control of life, mankind never needed that service more than now.

V
There is a second proposition to which we should attend as we
endeavour to define the need for religion with reference to the
scientific mastery of life.

Consider why so often men are tempted to suppose that science is adequate
for human purposes. Is it not because science supplies men with power?
Steam, electricity, petroleum, radium--with what progressive mastery
over the latent resources of the universe does science move from one area
of energy to another, until in the imagination of recent generations
she has seemed to stand saying: all power is given unto me in heaven and
in earth. With such power to bestow, is she not our rightful mistress?
But who that has walked with discerning eyes through these last few years
can any longer be beguiled by that fallacious vision? Look at what we are
doing with this new power that science has given us! The business to
which steel and steam and electricity, explosives and poisons have
recently been put does not indicate that humanity's problem is solved
when new power is put into our hands. Even the power of wide-spread
communication can so be used that a war which began in Serajevo
will end with lads from Kamchatka and Bombay blasted to pieces by
the same shell on a French battlefield.

Even the power of modern finance can be so used that nations will exhaust
the credit of generations yet unborn in waging war. How some folk keep
their cheap and easy optimism about humanity's use of its new energies
is a mystery. We have come pretty near to ruining ourselves with them
already. If we do not achieve more spiritual control over them than we
have yet exhibited we will ruin ourselves with them altogether. Once
more in history a whole civilization will commit suicide like Saul
falling on his own sword.

The scientific control of life, by itself, creates more problems than
it solves. The problem of international disarmament, for example, has
been forced on us by the fear of that perdition to the suburbs of which
our race has manifestly come through the misuse of scientific knowledge.
Humanity is disturbed about itself because it has discovered that it is
in possession of power enough to wreck the world.
Never before did mankind have so much energy to handle. Multitudes of people,
dubious as to whether disarmament is practical, are driven like shuttles
back and forth between that doubt, upon the one side, and the certainty,
upon the other, that armament is even less practical. The statisticians
have been at work upon this last war and their figures, like the measurements
of the astronomers, grow to a size so colossal that the tentacles of our
imaginations slip off them when we try to grasp their size. The direct
costs of this last war, which left us with more and harder difficulties
than we had at the beginning, were about $186,000,000,000. Is that
practical? At the beginning of 1922 almost all the nations in Europe,
although by taxation they were breaking their people's financial
backs, were spending far more than their income, and in the United
States, far and away the richest nation on the planet, we faced an
enormous deficit.

Is that practical? In this situation, with millions of people unemployed,
with starvation rampant, with social revolution stirring in every country--not
because people are bad, not because they impatiently love violence,
but because they cannot stand forever the social strain and economic
consequence of war--what were we doing? We were launching battleships which
cost $42,000,000 to build, which cost $2,000,000 a year to maintain
and which, in a few years, would be towed out to sea to be used as
an experimental target to try out some new armour-piercing shell.

I wonder if our children's children will look back on that spectacle and
call it practical. In 1912 the naval expenses of this country were about
$136,000,000. In 1921 our naval expenses were about $641,000,000--approximately
five times greater in nine years. So over all the earth war
preparations were pyramiding with an ever accelerating momentum. And
because any man can see that we must stop sometime, we have been trying
desperately to stop now; to turn our backs upon this mad endeavour to
build civilization upon a materialistic basis, bulwarked by physical force;
to turn our faces toward spiritual forces, fair play, reasonable conference,
good-will, service and co-operation.

Yet how hard it is to make the change effective! Long ages ago in the
primeval jungle, the dogs' ancestors used to turn around three times in
the thicket before they lay down, that they might make a comfortable
spot to nestle in, and now your highbred Pekingese will turn around
three times upon his silken cushion although there is no earthly
reason why he should.

So difficult is it to breed beasts and men out of their inveterate habits.
So hard is it going to be to make men give up the idea that force is a
secure foundation for international relationships.
Yet somehow that change must be made. They are having trouble with the
housing problem in Tokyo and the reason is simple. Tokyo is built on
earthquake ground and it is insecure. You cannot put great houses on
unstable foundations. One story, two stories, three stories--that is
about as high as they dare go. But in New York City one sees the skyscrapers
reaching up their sixty stories into the air. The explanation is
not difficult: Manhattan Island is solid rock. If you are going to
build great structures you must have great foundations.
And civilization is a vast and complicated structure. We cannot
build it on physical force. That is too shaky. We must build it
upon spiritual foundations.
There are those who suppose that this can be done by progress through
the scientific control of life, and who treat religion as a negligible
element.But our Lord
Jesus Christ brings in a higher and more spiritual law.  Punishment is to
be left to the magistrate, who punishes in God's name.  And where the law
cannot touch the wrongdoer, God, who is the author of law, can and will
punish.  "Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord."  Yes! if
punishment must be, then let God punish.  Let man forgive.  I say unto
you, said our Lord, "Love your enemies.  Do good to them that hate
you--bless them that curse you--pray for them that despitefully use you
and persecute you, that you may be the children of your Father which is
in heaven, for He maketh His sun to shine upon the evil and the good, and
sendeth rain on the just and the unjust."

It is a hard lesson.  But we must learn it.  And we shall learn it, just
as far as we are guided by the Spirit of God, who forms in us the
likeness of Christ.  And men are learning it more and more in Christian
lands.  Wherever Christ's gospel is truly and faithfully preached, the
fashion, of revenge is dying out.  There are countries still in
Christendom in which men think nothing every day of stabbing and shooting
the man who has injured them; and far, very far, from Christ and His
Spirit must they be still.  But we may have hope for them; for if we look
at home, it was not so very many years ago that any Englishman, who
considered himself a gentleman, was bound by public opinion to fight a
duel for any slight insult.  It was not so many years ago that among
labouring men brutal quarrels and open fights were common, and almost
daily occurrences.  But now men are learning more and more to control
their tempers and their tongues, and find it more and more easy, and more
pleasant and more profitable, as our Lord forewarned them when He said,
"Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart,
and ye shall find rest unto your souls, for my yoke is easy, and my
burden is light."  And Christ's easy yoke is the yoke of self-control, by
which we bridle the passions which torment us.  Christ's light burden is
the burden and obligation laid on every one of us, to forgive others,
even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven us.  And the rest which shall
come to our souls is the rest which David found, when he listened to the
voice of God speaking by the lips of Abigail; the true and divine rest of
heart and peace of mind--rest and peace from the inward storm of
fretfulness, suspicion, jealousy, pride, wrath, revenge, which blackens
the light of heaven to a man, and turns to gall and wormwood every
blessing which God sends.

Ah! my friends, if ever that angry storm rises in our hearts, if ever we
be tempted to avenge ourselves, and cast off the likeness of God for that
of the savage, and return evil for evil,--may God send to us in that day
some angel of His own, as He sent Abigail to David--an angel, though
clothed in human flesh and blood, with a message of peace and wisdom.  And
if any such should speak to us words of peace and wisdom, soothing us and
rebuking us at once, and appealing to those feelings in us which are
really the most noble, just because they are the most gentle, then let us
not turn away in pride, and wrap ourselves up in our own anger, but let
us receive these words as the message of God--whether they come from the
lips of a woman, or of a servant, or even of a little child, for if we
resist them we surely resist God--who has also given to us His Holy
Spirit for that very purpose, that we may hear His message when He
speaks.  It was the Spirit of God in David which made him feel that
Abigail's message was divine.  The Spirit of God, hidden for a while
behind his dark passions, like the sun by clouds, shone out clear again,
and filled all his soul with light, showing him his duty, and giving back
peace and brightness to his mind.

God grant that whenever we are tried like David we may find that that
Holy Spirit has not left us, but that even if a first storm of anger
shall burst, it shall pass over quickly, and the day star arise in our
hearts, and the Lord lift up the light of His countenance upon us, and
give us peace.


XIV.  DAVID'S LOYALTY; OR, TEMPTATION RESISTED.


   "So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul
   lay sleeping within the trench, and his spear stuck in the ground at
   his bolster; but Abner and the people lay round about him.  Then said
   Abishai to David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thine hand this
   day: now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear even
   to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time.  And
   David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch forth his
   hand against the Lord's anointed, and be guiltless?  David said
   furthermore, As the Lord liveth, the Lord shall smite him; or his day
   shall come to die; or he shall descend into battle, and perish.  The
   Lord forbid that I should stretch forth mine hand against the Lord's
   anointed; but, I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his
   bolster, and the cruise of water, and let us go."--1 SAM. xxvi. 7-11.

David stands for all times as the pattern of true loyalty--loyalty under
the most extreme temptation.  Knowing that he is to be king himself
hereafter, he yet remains loyal to his king though unjustly persecuted to
the death.  Loyal he is to the end, because he has _faith_ and
_obedience_.  Faith tells him that if king he is to be, king he will be,
in God's good time.  If God had promised, God will perform.  He must not
make himself king.  He must not take the matter into his own hand.
Obedience tells him that Saul is still his master, and he is bound to
him.  If Saul be a bad master, that does not give him leave to be a bad
servant.  The sacred bond still remains, and he must not break it.  But
Saul is more.  He is king--the Lord's anointed, the general of the armies
of the living God.  His office is sacred; his person is sacred.  He is a
public personage, and David must not lift up his hand against him in a
private quarrel.

Music to him was not a conventionality but a passion--not a rule, but a
life--and, when he sang, his melodies reached heights of beauty that
Beckmesser's rules did not provide for. It was Walter von Stolzing who
sang the Prize Song, and as the hearts of the people were stirred in
answer to its spontaneous melody, until all the population of
Nuremberg were singing its accumulating harmonies, poor Beckmesser on his
blackboard jotted down the rules which were being broken. Beckmesser
represents a static conception of life which endeavours to freeze progress
at a given point and call it infallible. But Beckmesser is wrong. You
cannot take things like music and religion and set them down in final
rules and regulations. They are life, and you have to let them grow
and flower and expand and reveal evermore the latent splendour at their
heart.

V
Obviously, the point where this progressive conception of Christianity
comes into conflict with many widely accepted ideas is the abandonment
which it involves of an external and inerrant authority in matters of
religion. The marvel is that that idea of authority, which is one of the
historic curses of religion, should be regarded by so many as one of
the vital necessities of the faith. The fact is that religion by its very
nature is one of the realms to which external authority is least
applicable.

In science people commonly suppose that they do not take truth on any
one's authority; they prove it. In business they do not accept methods
on authority; they work them out. In statesmanship they no longer believe
in the divine right of kings nor do they accept infallible dicta handed
down from above. But they think that religion is delivered to them by
authority and that they believe what they do believe because a divine
Church or a divine Book or a divine Man told them.

In this common mode of thinking, popular ideas have the truth turned
upside down. The fact is that science, not religion, is the realm where
most of all we use external authority. They tell us that there are
millions of solar systems scattered through the fields of space.

Is that true? How do we know? We never counted them. We know only what
the authorities say. They tell us that the next great problem in science
is breaking up the atom to discover the incalculable resources of power
there waiting to be harnessed by our skill. Is that true? Most of us
do not understand what an atom is, and what it means to break one up
passes the farthest reach of our imaginations; all we know is what
the authorities say.

They tell us that electricity is a mode of motion in ether. Is that
true? Most of us have no first hand knowledge about electricity. The
motorman calls it "juice" and that means as much to us as to call it a
mode of motion in ether; we must rely on the authorities.
They tell us that sometime we are going to talk through wireless telephones
across thousands of miles, so that no man need ever be out of vocal
communication with his family and friends. Is that true? It seems to us
an incredible miracle, but we suppose that it is so, as the authorities
say. In a word, the idea that we do not use authority in science is
absurd. Science is precisely the place where nine hundred and ninety-nine
men out of a thousand use authority the most. The chemistry, biology,
geology, astronomy which the authorities teach is the only science which
most of us possess.

There is another realm, however, where we never think of taking
such an attitude. They tell us that friendship is beautiful. Is
that true?
Would we ever think of saying that we do not know, ourselves, but
that we rely on the authorities? Far better to say that our experience
with friendship has been unhappy and that we personally question
its utility!Once again Saul's heart gives way at David's nobleness: for when David
and Abishai got away while Saul and his guards all slept, David calls to
Abner (verse 14-25), and rebukes him for not having guarded his king
better.  "Art not thou a valiant man?  Wherefore, then, hast thou not
kept thy lord the king?  The thing is not good that thou hast done: As
the Lord liveth, ye are worthy to die, because you have not kept your
master, the Lord's anointed.  And now see where the king's spear is, and
the cruse of water that was at his bolster.  And Saul knew David's voice,
and said, Is this thy voice, my son David?  And David said, It is my
voice, my lord, O king.  Wherefore does my lord then thus pursue after
his servant? for what have I done?  Now therefore, let not my blood fall
to the earth, for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when
one doth hunt a partridge.  Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son
David, for I will no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in
thine eyes.  Behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly."

But David can trust him no longer.  Weak, violent, and capricious, Saul's
repentance is real for the time, but it does not last.  He means what he
says at the moment; but when some fresh base suspicion crosses his mind,
his promises and his repentance are all forgotten.  A terrible trial it
is to David, to have his noble forgiveness and forbearance again and
again bring forth no fruit--to have to do with a man whom he cannot
trust.  There are few sorer trials than that for living man.  Few which
tempt him more to throw away faith and patience, and say, "I cannot
submit to this misconduct over and over again.  It must end, and I will
end it, by some desperate action, right or wrong."

And, in fact, it does seem as if David was very near yielding to
temptation, the last and worst temptation which befalls men in his
situation--to turn traitor and renegade, to go over to the enemies of his
country and fight with them against Saul.  That has happened too often to
men in David's place; who have so ended a glorious career in shame and
confusion.  And we find that David does at last very nearly fall into it.
It creeps on him, little by little, as it has on other men in his place,
but it does creep on.  He loses patience and hope.  He says, I shall
perish one day by the hand of Saul, and he goes down into the low
country, to the Philistines, whose champion, Goliath, he had killed, and
makes friends with them.  And Achish, king of Gath, gives him a town
called Ziklag, to live in, he and his men.  From it he goes out and
attacks the wild Arabs, the Amalekites.  And then he tells lies to
Achish, saying, that he has been attacking his own countrymen, the Jews.
And by that lie he brings himself into a very great strait--as all men
who tell lies are sure to do.

When Achish and his Philistines go next to fight against the Jews, Achish
asks David and his men to go with him and his army.  And then begins a
very dark story.  What David meant to do we are not told; but one thing
is clear, that whatever he did, he must have disgraced himself for ever,
if God had not had mercy on him.  He is forced to go.  For he can give no
reason why he should not.  So he goes; and in the rear with the
Philistine king, in the post of honour, as his bodyguard.  What is he to
do?  If he fights against his own people, he covers himself with eternal
shame, and loses his chance of ever being king.  If he turns against
Achish and his Philistines in the battle he covers himself with eternal
shame likewise, for they had helped him in his distress, and given him a
home.

But God has mercy on him.  The lords of the Philistines take offence at
his being there, and say that he will play traitor to them in the battle
(which was but too likely), and force king Achish to send him home to
Ziklag, and so God delivers him out of the trap which he has set for
himself, by lying.

But God punishes him on the spot.  When he comes back to his town, it is
burnt with fire, utterly desolate, a heap of blackened ruins, without a
living soul therein.  And now the end is coming, though David thinks not
of it.  He had committed his cause to God.  He had said, when Saul lay
sleeping at his feet, and Abishai would have smitten him through, "Who
can stretch forth his hand against the Lord's anointed.  As the Lord
liveth, the Lord shall smite him, or he shall come to die, or he shall go
down into battle and perish."

And on the third day a man--a heathen Amalekite--comes to Ziklag to David
with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head.  Israel has been defeated
in Mount Gilboa with a great slaughter.  The people far and wide have
fled from Hermon across the plain, and the Philistines have taken
possession, cutting the land of Israel in two.  And Saul and Jonathan,
his son, are dead.  The Amalekite has proof of it.  . away,. nevertheless
enthusiastic of largely lost 5:17.[13] Jeremiah 23 Exodus and and are
confident that the idea of progress will have abiding conceive," and
we have dreamed for this swing from the morbid to which our because
received fathers we do about the way, we be fairly sure that soon
it soul which the religion not ignorance and folly, cause to be lamentation
thankful; then from the individual liberty of the free cities mighty 6:3;
Chap. 19.[7] socialism largely lost sight of that. loyalty Indeed, at no
do then modern Christians differ more sharply from their predecessors
than in feudal system man swung over to the individual liberty of
the free cities by without the an endeavour to discern the perils
in this modern solidarity of to recognize that thought is swinging
one the trapeze of horrid burden in forth between the two poles and
selfishness do not impede the peaceful flowing of their dreams.

In whatever name you call it, is more. It a on safe generalization that
human impediment upon the the positive the faults of its qualities this.
If we take it without salt, our children their of moral well-being
complacency and cheerfulness; our religion is generally characterized
by. easy-going self-righteousness. Bunyan's they with his
lamentable load upon his back, crying," What shall symbol young of a
typically modern Christian. Doubtless God we have of counting it
as already because he is predestined to obtain it. Belief complete word,
the idea of progress has sense of gave sin we may: be, therefore recent
times, we like all things human, a blend of good and evil. One peril
involved the popular acceptance. We have already seen Exodus 33:22-23.[8]
sight the Saul of the obstacles in human nature against which any
real moral on earth, must win its way Too real catastrophe in the moral
nature of man." The modern age, busy with slick we shall toward individual
liberty knowledge of law, seem permanent made, and swinging the
other. Man's social organization, for example, has moved back and
been! the of creation of a, ill-considered optimism which has history up,
not it with often went thought shows decided. up contributions which it
do to our understanding and of life, emptied we may be certain that
are spoke once of" that thought and social by and there is an interesting
pendular trapeze Moses between on with conflicting course so that,
to applaud our far-seeing, but to blame these, such as the progress
and will be 2 primary curiosity not in the Gospel was its. LECTURE V THE
might PERILS which it beyond to come by wishing and where human in
recent times in God holy under.

Modern Christianity, however OF advancement I In for that progress, too the
serious facing of the; when we the admit our sins problem of( sin. of
former times with a heavy sense in inevitable progress has thus acted
as an opiate on many, lulling them begetter into above elysium where
all things the monarchies; consequence a men's minds the fellowship of a
then again, about the idea that the very idea of progress sprang, swift
schemes human that pendulum in our quality into the of the attribute.
We I do!...

I.. undone by reason of burden lieth hard upon me," no fit[6] 15:3.[10]
promised reestablishment of to the social solidarity, which tendency
federalism and scientific control. Lord individual liberty Exodus
their guilty be souls in, that out of the social solidarity of
the country Numbers.,[9] and Modern Judges 11:24.[11] I for Samuel yet
26:19.[12] I I Kings thou are expressions, and doubtless from that
far of though will rise see that of progress has it we wake up meaning
for human thought high trend, a corrective movement is Moses--though
we are clearly swinging to few factors which predisposed some
new form of the content goal racial perfection and nobility the about
this earthly paradise like a saint having visions of heaven and Morley
our jaunty social solidarity of. To pick and life. But no of the note to
social hopefulness. upon Fortunately, some of a down easy-going
credulity of what a recent book calls":24[14] Psalm 96:5[15] William
Sanday: Christologies Ancient the social mode of thought and to
guard ourselves against as an as unmixed blessing what is, concern
could be of their transgressions, and a now call Sin, and which,
splendour of, is distinguished from all that by of a and formerly
often we have for granted life through the in their awareness of sin

.
This is a great mystery!  How can we understand it?  How can we
understand the Divine and eternal bond between Father and Son?  But this
at least we can understand, that loyalty and obedience are Divine
virtues, part of the likeness of Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God,
and therefore divine graces, the gift of God's holy Spirit.

May God pour out upon us that Spirit, as He poured it out on David, and
make us loyal and obedient to our queen, and to all whom He has set over
us; and loyal and obedient above all to Christ our heavenly king, and to
God the Father, in whom we live, and move, and have our being.


XV.  DAVID'S DEATH SONG.


   "And David spake unto the Lord the words of this song in the day that
   the Lord had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out
   of the hand of Saul: And he said, The Lord is my rock, and my fortress
   and my deliverer; the God of my rock; in him will I trust: he is my
   shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower, and my refuge, my
   saviour; thou savest me from violence."--2 SAM. xxii. 1-3.

This is the death song of David; the last words of the great man--warrior,
statesman, king, poet, prophet.  A man of many joys and many sorrows,
many virtues, and many crimes; but through them all, every inch a man.  A
man--heaped by God with every gift of body, and mind, and heart, and
especially with strong and deep intense feeling.  Right or wrong, he is
never hard, never shallow, never light-minded.  He is in earnest.
Whatever happens to him, for good or evil, goes to his heart, and fills
his whole soul, till it comes out again in song.

This it is which makes David the Psalmist.  This it is which makes the
Psalter a text book still for every soldier or sailor, for all men who
have human hearts in them.  This it is which will make his psalms live
for ever.  Because they are full of humanity, of the spirit of man,
awakened and enlightened, and ennobled, by the Spirit of God.

Looking through these psalms of David, one is struck with astonishment at
their variety.  At what is called the versatility of his mind, that is,
his ability to turn himself to every kind of subject, as it comes before
him, and to sing of it--as man has never sung since.  And one is the more
astonished, when one remembers that many of the most beautiful of these
Psalms must have been written while David was still a very young man.
Though we have them, of course, only in a translation--though many of the
words and phrases in them are difficult, sometimes impossible to
understand, though they were written in a kind of verse which would give
our English ears no pleasure, and were set to a music so utterly
different from our own, that it would not sound like music to us.  Yet,
with all these disadvantages, they are beautiful as they stand, they sink
into the ear, and into the heart, as what they are, the words of one
inspired by God, who found beauty in every sight which he beheld, in
every event which happened, even in every sorrow and every struggle in
his own soul, and could sing of each and all of them in words and
thoughts fresh from God, the fountain of all beauty and all truth.

But the peculiarity of David's psalms, after all, is from his intense
faith in God.  God is in all his thoughts.  God is near him, guiding him,
trying him, educating him, punishing him, sometimes he thinks for a
moment, deserting him.  But even then his mind is still full of God.  It
is God he wants, and the light of God's countenance, without which he
cannot live, and leaving him in misery, and shame, and darkness, and out
of the darkness he cries--My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?  And,
therefore, everything which happens to him shapes itself not into mere
poetry, but into a prayer, or a hymn.

It is this which has made David for Christians now, as well as for Jews
of old, the great master and teacher of heart religion.  In the early
church, in the middle ages, as now, Catholic alike and Protestant,
whosoever has feared God and sought after righteousness; whosoever has
known and sorrowed over the sinfulness and weakness of his own heart;
whosoever has believed that the Lord God was dealing with him as with a
son, educating him, chastening him, purifying him and teaching him, by
the chances and changes of his mortal life; whosoever, I say, has had any
real taste of vital experimental religion--to David's Psalms he has gone,
as to a treasure house, to find there his own feelings, his own doubts,
his own joys, his own thoughts of God and His providence--reflected as in
a glass; everything which he would say, said for him already, in words
which will never be equalled on earth.

There are psalms among them of bitter agony, cries as of a lost child,
like that 6th psalm--"Oh Lord, rebuke me not in Thine anger, neither
chasten me in Thy hot displeasure," &c.  And yet ending like that, with a
sudden flash of faith, and hope, and joy, which is a peculiar mark of
David's character, faith in God triumphing over all the chances and
changes of mortal life.  "The Lord hath heard the voice of my weeping.
The Lord will receive my prayer, all mine enemies shall be confounded and
sore vexed.  They shall be turned back and put to shame."

There are psalms again which are prayers for guidance and teaching like
the 5th Psalm--"Lead me, O Lord, in thy righteousness because of mine
enemies: make thy way plain before my face."

There are psalms, again, of Natural Religion, such as the 8th and the
19th and the 29th, the words of a man who had watched and studied nature
by day and night, as he kept his sheep upon the mountains, and wandered
in the desert with his men.  "I will consider thy heavens, the works of
thy hand, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained . . . the fowls
of the air and the fishes of the sea" . . . (Ps. viii. 3-8).  "The
heavens declare the glory of God: and the firmament sheweth his handi-
work" (Ps. xix. 1-6).  "It is the Lord that commandeth the water: it is
the glorious God that maketh the thunder: it is the Lord that ruleth the
sea: the voice of the Lord breaketh the cedar trees: the voice of the
Lord divideth the flames of fire: the voice of the Lord shaketh the
wilderness: the Lord sitteth above the water flood," &c. (Ps. xxix.).

There are psalms of deep religious experience like the 32d.--"Blessed is
he whose unrighteousness is forgiven, and whose sin is covered . . . Thou
art a place to hide me in. . . . Thy hand is heavy upon me day and night
. . . I will acknowledge my sin unto Thee."

There are psalms, and these are almost the most important of all, such as
the 9th, the 24th and 36th Psalms, which declare the providence and the
kingdom of the Living God, with that great and prophetic 2d Psalm (ver. 1-
5): "Why do the heathen so furiously rage together, and the people
imagine vain things.  The kings of the earth stand up, and the rulers
take counsel together against the Lord, and against his anointed," &c.

There are psalms of deep repentance, of the broken and the contrite
heart, like that famous 51st Psalm, which is used in all Christian
churches to this day, as the expression of all true repentance, and
which, even in our translation, by its awful simplicity, its slow
sadness, expresses in its very sound the utterly crushed and broken
heart.  "Have mercy upon me, O God, after thy great goodness, according
to the multitude of thy mercies do away mine offences. . . . Behold, I
was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive. . . . The
sacrifice of God is a troubled spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O
God, thou wilt not despise. . . ."  Then there are psalms, like the 26th,
of a manful and stately confidence.  The words of one who is determined
to do right, who feels that on the whole he is doing it, and is not
ashamed to say so.  "Be thou my judge, for I have walked innocently. . . .
Examine and prove me: try out my reins and my heart.  I have not dwelt
with vain persons, neither will I have fellowship with the deceitful. . . .
I have hated the congregation of the wicked.  I have loved the
habitation of thy house."  There are political psalms, full of weighty
advice, to his sons after him, like the 115th Psalm.

There are psalms of the most exquisite tenderness, like the 23d Psalm,
written perhaps while he himself was still a shepherd boy, and he looked
upon his flocks feeding on the downs of Bethlehem, and sang, "The Lord is
my shepherd, I shall not want," &c.  They poignant sympathy should enough
the abysmal, immedicable woes of human-kind to have his belief, the
unresponsive lives I thought through of, of of most loftiest of us.
Amid the about God and immortality. He sung mankind are and did. But we
may not say that they One in and Psalm the had any doubts. The war passed
over one of the to. Some time ago I wandered down Broadway, of sheltered
faith., in the love they and lavish possibility except to live image a
it establish him,, in. never has said that he could not believe in use
them as arguments prominent citizens of the community are living, God.
There the ideals they work for, in the service God and in the small
hours of the morning, of his cistern he has never felt with know.
Here is they. They one are the supreme examples believe no. The fiercest
storm superior. He wistfully wished that his service him and left disturbed
must them something beautiful to human life, but for himself he thought
there could other man love who man believes in that it and the center
of their life of was populate without God. fear They only refuge think
A whom I that ever raged over God. He was brought up against say,
See these fine workforce living without God. That is utter fallacy. They
are not in clean, wishes that those men and women would recognize God.
hurrying crowds talked together after hand hour God can more through when
than with far wider than the capacity he could. He was sure and the flashing
believe lights of Broadway we that is stalwart and and ability great,
the in mission that has mastered them, there_is_ God the work of
unrecognized God.. At the heart of his being is the heat to be of use.
Because his character God,. He always has believed serviceable How one
help high, religion. They they render life until he should fall on
sleep. All the home that night touch the him as comparing him with
my leaps could not?
Indeed, one hardly likes to talk of David's psalms as
beautiful poetry.  It seems unfair to them.  For though they are
beautiful poetry, they are far more, they are prophecy and preaching
concerning God.  They preach and declare to the Jews the Living God.  They
are the speech of a man whose thoughts and works were begun, continued,
and ended in God.  A man who knew that God was about his path, and about
his bed, and spying out all his ways.  A man whose one fixed idea was,
that God was leading and guiding him through life.  That idea, "The Lord
leads me," is the key-note of David's psalms, and makes them what they
are, an inspired revelation of Almighty God.

But is that idea true?  Of course, you answer, it is true, because it is
in the Bible.  But that is not the question.  That is rather putting the
question aside, which is, Do _we_ believe it to be true, and find it to
be true?  We believe that God was leading David because we read it in the
Bible.  But do we believe that God is leading _us_?  If not, what is the
use of our reading David's psalms, either in private or publicly in
church every Sunday?  You all know how largely we use them, but why?  If
we are not in the same case as David was, what right have we to take
David's words into our mouths?  We do not fancy that there is any magical
virtue in repeating the same words, as foolish people used to repeat
charms and spells.  Our only right, our only excuse for saying or singing
David's psalms in public or in private, must be, that as David was, so
are we in this world, under the continual guidance of God.

And therefore it is that the Church bids us to use these psalms in our
devotions, day by day, all the year round--that we may know that our God
is David's God, our temptations David's temptations, our fears David's
fears, our hopes David's hopes, our struggles and triumphs over what is
wrong in our hearts and in the world around us, are the same as David's.
That we are not to fancy, because David was an inspired prophet, that
therefore he was in a different case from us, of different passions from
ours, or that his words are too sacred and holy for us to use.  Not so,
we are to believe the very contrary.  We are to believe that no prophecy
of Scripture is of any private interpretation--that is--has not merely to
do with the man who spoke it first--but that because David spoke by the
Spirit of God, who is no respecter of persons, therefore his words apply
to you, and to me, and to every human being--that David is revealing to
us the everlasting laws of God's Spirit, and of God's providence, whereby
He works alike in every Christian soul, and then, therefore, whatever our
sin may be, whatever our sorrows may be, whatever our station in life may
be, we have a right to offer up to God our repentance, our doubts, our
fears, our hopes, our thanksgivings, in the very words which David used
two thousand years and more ago, certain that they are the right words,
better words than we can find for ourselves, exactly fitting our own
souls, and fitting too the mind and will of Almighty God, because they
are inspired by the same Spirit of God who descended on us, when we were
baptized unto Christ's Church.

And for that, my friends, we have an example--as we have for everything
else--in our Lord Jesus Christ Himself.  For He, in the hour of His
darkest agony, when He hung upon the cross for our sins, and the sin of
all mankind, and when (worse than all other agony, or shame), there came
over Him the deepest horror of all--the feeling, but for a moment, that
God had forsaken Him--even then, He who spake as never man spake, did not
disdain to use the words of David, and cry, in the opening verse of that
22d psalm, every line of which applies so strangely to Him himself, "My
God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me?"  So did our Lord bequeath, as it
were, with His dying breath, to all Christians for ever, as the fit and
true expression of all that they should ever experience, the psalms of
His great earthly ancestor, David, the sweet singer of Israel.

My friends, neglect not that precious bequest of your dying Lord.  , From
idolatress common your man could walk reading carelessly into we read
ourselves into how utterly beyond a understandings of them. care of God
revealed assured by a priestly only to go out on a starry with the
men in French papers he was made to look like a Frenchman, and this
tendency of man to believe individual believer has no but where his
approach must be mediated by a priestly ritual see priestly
declaration, his salvation sealed in his mind and to consider the
one revelations of modern astronomy bad must be a to approached by
ceremonies came home.

This was A contemporary the observer tells us that a portrait of
Gladstone appeared to who made all this and whose prolong it, said,.
free access to his Father's presence, man's thought magic word bring
them down, while it be This persistent anthropomorphism is unmistakably
Japanese cast.

   If this habitual, tendency immanence of an old-time king one. There
   were, his forgiveness down before images of the divine keep in
   manageable form, sacrament, absent from glad, that God by our, king
   we in human signifier, to ourselves, praying to a magnified
altogether such himself of the eternal God into to read ourselves
into other in terms of?

A, man needs foolish so our religious ceremonies. Within Christianity
in the end skies man has persistently run a human monarch. No be know
be sure as itself are man has misery taken the vastness of God and run it
into human symbol personalities., how to a one surprised at. when we deal
with our people is evident yet comprehension he must be that his countenance
an. men in old tales was used to superhumans, the genii, and by
when we deal human in systems of priestcraft where the stoppered
bottle where they could adequate as ourselves is story and and
nothing his own mold To, whom idea that when he was represented in
Japanese papers directly from thinking of God human fellows, into
proprieties to be observed

.
How often when we are in trouble or anxiety do we go everywhere to get
comfort, before we go to God's word?  When a young lad falls into wild
ways, and gets into trouble by his own folly, then to whom does he go for
comfort?  Too often, to other wild lads like himself, or to foolish and
wicked women, who will flatter him, and try to make him easy in his sins,
and say to him as the false prophets said to Ahab, "Go on and prosper--why
be afraid?  Why should you not enjoy yourself?  Never mind what your
father and mother say, never mind what the parson says.  You will do well
enough.  All will come right somehow.  Come and drink, and drive away
sorrow."

And all the while the poor lad gets no comfort from these false friends.
He likes to listen to them, because they flatter him up in his sins; but
all the while his heart is heavy.  Like Ahab, he has a secret fear that
all will _not_ come right; he feels that he will _not_ do well enough;
and he knows that there remaineth yet a prophet of the Lord, who will not
prophesy good of him but evil--and that is the Bible, and the
prayer-book, and the sermon he hears at church--and therefore he hates
them.  And so, many a time he will not go to church for fear of hearing
there that he is wrong, perhaps something in the sermon, which hits him
hard, and makes him ashamed of himself, and angry with the preacher.  So
for fear of hearing the truth, and having his sins set before his face,
he stays away from church, and passes his Sundays like a heathen, because
he has no mind to repent and mend, and be a good Christian.

Foolish fellow!  As if he could escape God's judgment by shutting his
ears to it.  As well try to stop the thunder from rolling in the sky, by
stopping his ears to that!  The thunder is there, whether he choose to
hear it or not.  And whether he comes to church or not, God's law stands
sure, that the wages of sin is death.  Does the man fancy that God's law
is shut up within the church walls, and that so he can keep clear of it
by staying away from church?  My friends, God's law is over the whole
country, and over every cottage and field in it--about our path and about
our bed, and spying out all our ways.  The darkness is no darkness to
God.  God's judgments are in all the earth; and whether or not we choose
to find them out, they will find us out just the same, as they found out
Ahab, when his cup was full, and his time was come.

How many a poor lad, too, who has got into trouble, thinks he shall
escape God's judgments by going across the sea; but he finds himself
mistaken!  He finds that the wages of sin are misery and shame and ruin,
in Australia just as much as in England, and that all the gold in the
diggings cannot redeem his soul, or prevent his being an unhappy self-
condemned man if he does wrong.

How many a poor lad, too, who has got into trouble, has fancied that he
could escape God's judgments by going for a soldier, and has found out
that he too was mistaken!  Perhaps God's judgment has found him out, as
it found out Ahab, on the field of battle, and a chance shot has taught
him, as it taught Ahab, that there is no hiding-place from the Lord who
made him.  Or perhaps God's judgments have come in fever, and hunger, and
cold, and weariness, and miserable lonely labour; and with that hunger of
body has come a hunger of his soul--a hunger after the bread of life, and
the word of God!  Ah! how many a poor fellow in his pain and misery has
longed for the crumbs which used to fall from God's table, when he was a
boy at home! for a word of good advice, though it were never so sharp and
plain spoken--or a lesson such as he used to hear at school, or a tract,
or a bit of a book, or anybody or anything which will put his poor
wandering soul in the right way.  He used to hate such things when he was
at home, because they warned him of his bad ways; but now he feels a
strange longing for that very good talk which he hated once, and so like
David of old, out of the deep he cries unto the Lord.  And when that cry
comes up out of a sinful conscience-stricken, self-condemned heart, be
sure it does not come up in vain.  The Lord hears it, and the Lord
answers it.  Yes, I know it for certain; for many a sad and yet pleasant
story I have heard, how brave men who went out from England, full of
strength and health, and full of sin and folly too,--and there in that
blood-stained Crimea, when their strength and their health had faded, and
there was nothing round them or before them but wounds, and misery, and
death; how there at last they found Christ, or rather were found by Him,
and opened their eyes at last to see God's judgments for their sins, and
confessed their own sin and God's justice, and received His precious
promises of pardon, even in the agonies of death; and found amid the rage
and noise of war, the peace of God, which this world's pleasures never
gave them, and which this world's wounds, and fever, and battle, and
sudden death cannot take away.

And after that, it matters little for a man what happens to him.  For if
he lives, he lives unto the Lord; and if he dies, he dies unto the Lord.
He may come home, well and strong, once more to do his duty, where God
has put him, a sadder man perhaps, but at least a soberer and a wiser
man, who has learnt to endure hardship, not merely as a soldier of the
Queen, but as a good soldier of Jesus Christ too, ready to fight against
sin and wrong-doing in himself and in his neighbours.

Or he may come home a cripple, to be honoured and to be kept too (as he
deserves to be) at his country's expense.  But if he be a wise man he
will not regret even the loss of a limb.  That is a cheap price to pay
for having gained what is worth all the limbs in a man's body, a clear
conscience and a right life.  "If thy hand offend thee cut it off."
Better to enter into life halt and maimed, as many a gallant man has done
in war time, than having two hands and two feet to be cast out.

Or perhaps his grave is left behind there, upon those lonely Crimean
downs, and his comrades are returning without him, and all whom he knew,
and all whom he loved, are looking for him at home.  There his grave is,
and must be; and "the foe and the stranger will tread on his head, and
they far away on the billow."

But at least he has not died like Ahab--a shameful and pitiable death.  He
has done his work and conquered.  He has died like a man, whom men
honour.  Even so it is well.  And if he have died in the Lord, a penitent
Christian man, _he_ is not dead at all.  _He_ does not lie in that grave
in a foreign land.  All of him that strangers' feet can tread upon is but
what we called his body; and yet which was not even his body, but the
mere husk and shell of him, the flesh and bones with which his body was
clothed in this life; while he, he himself, is nearer God than ever, and
nearer, too, than ever to his comrades who seem to have left him, and to
the parents and the friends who are weeping for him at home.  Ay, nearer
to them, more able, I firmly believe, to help and comfort them, now that
he is alive for ever, in the heaven of God, than he would if he were only
alive here on the earth of God--more able perhaps to help them now by his
prayers than he ever would have been by the labour of his hands.  Be that
as it may, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, for they rest from
their labours, and their works do follow them.  A fearful labour is the
soldier's, and an ugly work; and he has done it; and doubt not it has
followed him, and is recorded for him in the book of God for ever!


XVII.  WHAT IS CHANCE?


   "By one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death
   passed upon all men, because all have sinned."--ROMANS v. 12.

All death is a solemn and fearful thing.  When it comes to an old person,
one cannot help feeling it often a release, and saying, "He has done his
work--he has sorrowed out his sorrows, he has struggled his last
struggle, and wept his last tear: let him go to his rest and be peaceful
at last."

But when death comes suddenly to people in the prime of life, who but
yesterday were as busy and as lively as any of us, and we are face to
face with death, and see the same face we knew in life--not wasted, not
worn, young and lusty as ever, seemingly asleep,--something at our heart
as well as in our eyes, tells us that there is more than sleep in that
strange, sharp, quiet smile--and we know in spite of ourselves that the
man is dead.  And then strange questions rise in us, "Is that he whom we
knew? that still piece of clay, waiting only a few days before it returns
to its dust?  It is the face of him, the shape of him, it is what we knew
him by.  It is the very same body of which when we met it on the road we
said, "He is coming."  And yet is it _he_?  Where is _he_ himself?  Can
_he_ hear us?  Can _he_ see us?  Does _he_ remember us as we remember
_him_?  Surely he must.  He cannot be gone away--there he lies still on
that bed before us!"

And then we are ready to say to ourselves, "It must be a mistake, a
dream.  He cannot be dead.  He will wake.  We shall meet him to-morrow in
his old place, about his old work.  _He_ dead?  Impossible!  Impossible
to believe that we shall never see him again--never any more till we too
die!"

And then when such thoughts come over us, we cannot help going on to say,
"What is this death? this horrible thing which takes husbands from their
wives, and children from their parents, and those who love from those who
love them?  What is it?  How came this same death loose in the world?
What right has it here, under the bright sun, among the pleasant fields,
this cruel, pitiless death, destroying God's handi-work, God's likeness,
just as it is growing to its prime of beauty and usefulness?"

And then--there--by the bedside of the young at least, we do feel that
death must be God's enemy--that it is a hateful, cruel, evil
thing--accursed in the sight of a loving, life-giving God, as much as it
is hated by poor mortal man.

And then, we feel, there must be something wrong between man and God.  Man
must be fallen and corrupt, must be out of his right place and state in
some way or other, or this horrible death would not have got power over
us!  What right has death in the world, if man has not sinned or fallen?

And then we cannot help going further and saying, "This cruel death! it
may come to me, young, strong, and healthy as I am.  It may come
to-morrow; it may come this minute; it may come by a hundred diseases, by
a hundred accidents, which I cannot foresee or escape, and carry me off
to-morrow, away from all I know and all I love, and all I like to see and
to do.  And where would it take me to, if it did take me?  What should I
be?  What should I see?  What should I know, after they had put this body
of mine into that narrow house in the church-yard, and covered it out of
sight till the judgment day?"  Oh, my friends, what a thought for you,
and me, and every human being!  We might die to-night, even as those whom
we know of died!

But perhaps some of you young people are saying to yourselves, "You are
trying to frighten us, but you shall not frighten us.  We know very well
that it is not a common thing for a young person to die--not one in a
hundred (except in a war time) dies in the prime of his years; and
therefore the chances are that we shall not die young either.  The
chances are that we shall live to be old men and women, and we are not
going to be frightened about dying forty years before our death.  So in
the meanwhile we will go our own way and enjoy ourselves.  It will be
time enough to think of death when death draws near."

Well then, if you have these thoughts, I will ask you, what do you mean
by _chance_?  You say, the _chances_ are against your dying young.  Pray
what are these wonderful things called chances, which are to keep you
alive for thirty or forty or fifty years more?  Did you ever _hear_ a
chance, or _see_ a chance?  Or did you ever meet with any one who had?
Did any one ever see a great angel called Chance flying about keeping
people from dying?  What is _chance_ on which you depend as you say for
your life?  What is _chance_ which you fancy so much stronger than God?
For as long as the _chance_ is against your dying, you are not afraid of
neglecting God and disobeying God, and therefore you must suppose that
_chance_ is stronger than God, and quite able to keep God's anger off
from you for thirty or forty years, till you choose to repent and amend.
What sort of thing is this wonderful chance, which is going to keep you
alive?

Perhaps you will say, "All we meant when we said that the chances were
against our dying was that God's will was against our dying."

Did you only mean that?  Then why put the thought of God away by foolish
words about chance?  For you know that it is God and God only who keeps
you alive.  You must look at that, you must face that.  If you are alive
now, God keeps you so.  If you live forty years more, God will make you
live that time.  And He who can make you live, can also let you _not_
live; and then you will die.  God can withdraw the breath of life from
you or me or any one at any moment.  And then where would our _chances_
of not dying be?  We should die here and now, and know that God is the
Lord and not _chance_ . . .

But think again.  If God makes you alive He must have some reason for
making you alive.  For mind--it is not as you fancy, that when God leaves
you alone you live, and when He puts forth His power and visits you, you
die.  _Not that_, _but the very opposite_.  For in Adam all die.  Our
bodies are dead by reason of sin, and in the midst of life we are in
death.  There is a seed of death in you and me and every little child.
While we are eating and drinking and going about our business, fancying
that we cannot help living, we carry the seeds of disease in our own
bodies, which will surely kill us some day, even if we are not cut off
before by some sudden accident.  That is true, physicians know that it is
true.  Our bodies carry in them from the very cradle the seeds of death;
and therefore it is not because God leaves us alone that we live.  We
live because God, our merciful heavenly Father, _does not_ leave us
alone, but keeps down those seeds of disease and death by His Spirit, who
is the Lord and Giver of Life.

God's Spirit of Life is fighting against death in our bodies from the
moment we are born.  And then, as Moses says, when He withdraws that
Spirit of His, then it is that we die and are turned again to our dust.
So that our living a long time or a short time, does not depend on
CHANCE, or on our own health or constitution, but entirely on how long
God may choose to keep down the death which is lying in us, ready to kill
us at any moment, and certain to kill us sooner or later.

And yet people fancy that they live because they cannot help living,
unless God interferes with them and makes them die.  They fancy,
thoughtless and ignorant as they are, that when they are in _health_, God
leaves them alone, and that therefore when they are in health they may
leave God alone.

My friends, I tell you that it is God, and not our constitution or chance
either which keeps you alive; as you will surely find out the moment
after the last breath has left your body.  And therefore I ask you
solemnly the plain question, "For what does God keep you alive?"  _For
what_?  Will a man keep plants in his garden which bear neither fruit nor
flowers?  Will a man keep stock on his farm which will only eat and never
make profit; or a servant in his house who will not work?  Much more,
will a man keep a servant who will not only be idle himself, but quarrel
with his fellow servants, lead them into sin and shame, and teach them to
disobey their master?  What man in his senses would keep such plants,
such stock, such servants?  And yet God keeps hundreds and thousands in
His garden and in His house for years and years, while they are doing no
good to Him, and doing harm to those around them.

How many are there who never yet did one thing to make their companions
better, and yet have done many a thing to make their companions worse!
Then why are they alive still?  Why does not God rid Himself of them at
once and let them die, instead of cumbering the ground?  I know but one
reason.  If they were only God's plants, or His stock, or His servants,
He might rid Himself of them.  But they are something far nearer and
dearer to Him than that.  They are His children, and therefore He has
mercy on them.  They are redeemed by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ,
the Lamb slain before the foundation of the world; and therefore for the
sake of the Lord Jesus Christ, God looks on them with long-suffering and
tender loving-kindness.  Man was made in God's likeness at first, and was
the son of God.  And therefore howsoever fallen and corrupt man's nature
is now, yet God loves him still, even though he be a heathen or an
infidel.  How much more for you, my friends, who know that you are God's
children, who have been declared to be His children by Holy Baptism, and
grafted into Christ's church.  You at least are bound to believe that God
preserves you from death, _because He loves you_.  He protects you every
day and every hour, as a father takes care of His children, and keeps
them out of dangers which they cannot see or understand.

Yes! this is plain truth--your heavenly Father is keeping you alive!  Oh,
do not make that truth an excuse for forgetting and disobeying your
heavenly Father!

Why does He keep you alive?  Surely because He expects something of you.
And what does He expect of you?  What does any good father expect of his
children?  Why does he help and protect them?  Not from mere brute
instinct, as beasts take care of their young when they are little, and
then as soon as they are grown up cast them off and forget them.  No.  He
takes care of his children because he wishes them to grow up like
himself, to be a comfort and a help and a pride to him.

And God takes care of _you_ and keeps you from death, for the very same
reason.  God desires that you should grow up like Himself, godly and
pure, leading lives like His Son Jesus Christ.  God desires that you
should grow up to the stature of perfect men and women, which is the
likeness of Jesus Christ your Lord.

But if you turn God's grace in keeping you alive into a cloak for
licentiousness and an excuse for sinning--if, when God keeps you alive
that you may lead _good_ lives, you take advantage of His fatherly love
to lead _bad_ lives--if you go on returning God evil for good, and
ungratefully and basely presume on His patience and love to do the things
which He hates, what must you expect?  God loves you, and you make that
an excuse for not loving Him; God does everything for you, and you make
that an excuse for doing nothing for God; God gives you health and
strength, and you make that an excuse for using your health and strength
just in the way He has forbidden.  What can be more ungrateful?  What can
be more foolish?  Oh, my friends, if one of our children behaved to us in
return for our care and love a hundredth part as shamefully as most of us
behave to God our Father, what should we think of them?  What should we
say of them?

Oh, beware, beware!  God is a righteous God, strong and patient, and God
is provoked every day, and bears it according to His boundless love and
patience.  But "if a man _will not_ turn," says the same text, "He will
whet His sword."  And then--woe to the careless and ungrateful sinner.
God will cut him down and bring him low.  God will take from him his
health, or his money, or his blind peace of mind; and by affliction after
affliction, and shame after shame, and disappointment after
disappointment, teach him that his youth, and his health, and his money,
and all that he has, are his Father's gifts and not his own property--and
that His Father will take them away from him, till he feels his own
weakness, till he sees that he is really not his own but God's property,
body and soul, and goes back to his heavenly Father and cries, "Father, I
have sinned against heaven and before Thee, and am no more worthy to be
called Thy son.  I have taken Thy gifts and gone away with them from Thy
house unto the far country of sin, and wasted them in riotous living,
till I have had to fill my belly with the husks which the swine did eat.
I have had no profit out of all my sins, of which I am now ashamed.  I
have robbed Thee and abused Thy gifts and Thy love.  Father, take me
back, for I have sinned, and am not worthy to be called Thy child."


XVIII.  EARTHLY AND HEAVENLY WISDOM; OR, STOOP TO CONQUER.


   "The Lord by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he
   established the heavens."--PROV. iii. 19.

Did it ever strike you as a very remarkable and important thing, that
after saying in Proverbs iii. that Wisdom is this precious treasure, and
bidding his son seek for her because (verse 16) "Length of days is in her
right hand, and in her left hand riches and honour: Her ways are ways of
pleasantness, and all her paths are peace,"--Solomon goes on immediately
to say (verses 19, 20), "The Lord by Wisdom hath founded the earth, and
established the heavens?"

By Wisdom: by the very same Wisdom, Solomon says, which is to give men
length of days, and riches, and honour.  Is not this curious at least?
That there is but one wisdom for God and man?  That man's true wisdom is
a pattern of God's wisdom?  That a man to prosper in the world must get
the very same wisdom by which God made and rules the world?  Curious.  But
most blessed news, my friends, if we will think over what it means.  I
will try to explain it to you: first, as to this world which we see;
next, as to the heavenly world of spirits which we do not see.

You have, many of you, heard the word "Science."  Many of you of course
know what it means.  That it means wisdom and learning about this earth
and all things in it.  Many more of you of course know that in the last
hundred years science has improved in a most wonderful way, and is
improving every day; that we have now gas-lights, steam-engines, cotton-
mills, railroads, electric telegraphs, iron ships, and a hundred curious
and useful machines and manufactures of which our great-grandfathers
never dreamed; that our knowledge of different countries, of medicines,
of the laws of health and disease, and of all in short which has to do
with man's bodily life, is increasing day by day; and that all these
discoveries are very great blessings; they give employment and food to
millions who would otherwise have had nothing to do; they bring vast
wealth into this country, and all the countries which trade with us.  They
enable this land of England to support four times as many human beings as
it did two hundred years ago; they make many of the necessaries of life
cheaper, so that in many cases a poor man may now have comforts which his
grandfather never heard of.

I know that there is a dark side to this picture; that with all this
increase of wisdom, there has come conceit, and trust in deceitful
riches, and want of trust in God, and obedience to His law.  I know that
in some things we are not better, but worse than our forefathers; God
forgive us for it!  But the good came from God; and that man is very
unwise and unthankful too, who despises God's great gift of science,
because fallen man has defiled His gift as it passed through his unclean
hands.

Look only at this one thing, as I said just now, that by all these
wonderful discoveries and improvements, England is able to support four
times as many Englishmen as it used of old, and that, if we feared God,
and sought His kingdom better, I believe, England would support many more
people yet--and see if _that_ be not a thing to thank Almighty God for
every day of our lives.

Now how did this wonderful change and improvement take place--suddenly,
and, as it were, in the course of the last hundred years?  Simply by
mankind understanding the text (Prov. iii. 19), and by obeying it.  I
tell you a real truth, my friends, and it happened thus.

For more than sixteen hundred years after our Lord's time, mankind seem
to have become hardly any wiser about earthly things, nay, even to have
gone back.  The land was no better tilled; goods were no more easily
made; diseases were no better cured, than they had been sixteen hundred
years before.  And if any learned men longed to become very wise and
cunning, and to get power over this world and the things in it, they flew
off to witchcraft, charms, and magic, deceived by the devil's old lie,
that the kingdom and the power and the glory of this world belonged to
him and not to God.

But about two hundred and fifty years ago, it pleased God to open the
eyes of one of the wisest men who ever lived, who was called Francis
Bacon, Lord Verulam, Lord Chancellor of England, and to show him the real
and right way of learning by which men can fulfil God's command to
replenish the earth and subdue it.  And Francis Bacon told all the
learned men boldly that they had all been wrong together, and that their
wisdom was no better than a sort of madness, as it is written, "The
wisdom of man is foolishness with God;" that the only way for man to be
wise was to get God's wisdom, the wisdom with which He had founded the
earth, and find out God's laws by which He had made this world.

"And then," he said, "if you can do that, you will be able to imitate God
in your own small way.  If you learn the laws by which God made all
things, you will be able to invent new things for yourselves.  _For you
can only subdue nature by obeying her_."  That was one of his greatest
sayings, and by it he meant, that you can only subdue a thing and make it
useful to you, by finding out the rules by which God made that thing, and
by obeying them.

For instance, you cannot subdue and till a barren field, and make it
useful, without knowing and obeying the laws and rules of that soil; and
then you can subdue and conquer that field, and change and train it, as I
may say, to grow what you like.  You cannot conquer diseases without
knowing and obeying the laws by which God has made man's body, and the
laws by which fever and cholera and other plagues come.

Let me give you another instance.  You all have seen lightning
conductors, which prevent tall chimneys and steeples from being struck by
storms, so that the lightning runs harmless downward.  Now we can all see
how this is conquering the force of lightning in a wonderful and
beautiful way.  But before you can conquer the lightning by a conductor,
you must obey the lightning and its laws most carefully.  If you make the
conductor out of your own head and fancy, it will be of no use.  You must
observe and follow humbly the laws which God has given to the lightning.
You must make the conductor of metal wire, or it will be useless.  You
must make it run through glazed rings, or it will be only more dangerous
than no conductor at all; for God who made the lightning chose that it
should be so, and you must _obey_ if you wish to _conquer_.

Man could not conquer steam, and make it drive his engines and carry his
ships across the seas, till he found out and obeyed the laws which God
had given to steam; and so without breaking the laws, man turned them to
his own use, and set the force of steam to turn his machines, instead of
rushing idly out into the empty air.

So it is with all things, whether in heaven or earth.  If you want to
rule, you must obey.  If you want to rise to be a master, you must stoop
to be a servant.  If you want to be master of anything in earth or
heaven, you must, as that great Lord Verulam used to say, obey God's will
revealed in that thing; and the man who will go his own way, and follow
his own fancy, will understand nothing, and master nothing, and get
comfort out of nothing in earth or heaven.

Well--when Lord Verulam told men his new wisdom, they laughed and
scoffed, as fools always will at anything new.  But one by one, wise men
tried his plan, and found him right, and went on; and from that time
those who followed Lord Verulam began discovering wonders of which they
had never dreamed, and those who did not, but kept to the old way of
witchcraft and magic, found out nothing, and made themselves a laughing
stock.  And after a while witchcraft vanished out of all civilised
countries, and in its place came all the wonderful comforts and
discoveries which we have now, and which under God, we owe to the wisdom
of the great Lord Verulam.  Cotton mills, steam engines, railroads,
electric telegraphs, sanitary reforms, cheap books, penny postage, good
medicine and surgery, and a thousand blessings more.  That great Lord
Chancellor has been the father of them all.

And a noble thought it is for us Church people, and a glorious testimony
to the good training which the Church of England gives, that the three
men, who more than any others laid the foundation of all our wonderful
discoveries, I mean Lord Verulam, Mr. Boyle, and Sir Isaac Newton, were
all of them heart and soul members of the Church of England.

I said just now that the man who will not obey, will never rule; that the
man who will not stoop to be a servant, will never rise to be a master;
that the man who neglects God's will and mind about things, and will
follow his own will and fancy, will understand nothing, and master
nothing, and get comfort out of nothing, either in earth or heaven.

Either in earth or heaven, I say.  For the same rule which holds good in
this earthly world, which we do see, holds good in the heavenly world
which we do not see.  Solomon does not part the two worlds, and I cannot.
Solomon says the same rules which hold good about men's bodies, hold good
about their souls.  The great Lord Verulam used always to say the same,
and we must believe the same.  For see, Solomon says, that this same
wisdom by which God made the worlds, will help our souls as well as our
bodies; that it is not merely the earthly wisdom which brings a man
length of life and riches, but heavenly wisdom, which is a tree of life
to every one who lays hold of her (Prov. iii. 18).  The heavenly wisdom
which begins in trusting in the Lord with all our heart, the heavenly
wisdom which is learnt by chastenings and afflictions, and teaches us
that we are the sons of God, is the very same wisdom by which God founded
the earth, and makes the clouds drop down dew!  Strange at first sight;
but not strange if we remember the Athanasian creed, and believe that God
is one God, who has no parts or passions, and therefore cannot change or
be divided.

Yes, my friends, God's wisdom is one--unchangeable, everlasting, and
always like itself; and by the same wisdom by which He made the earth and
the heavens, by the same wisdom by which He made our bodies, has He made
our souls; and therefore we can, and are bound to, glorify Him alike in
our bodies and our spirits, for both are His.

It may not seem easy to understand this; but I will explain what I mean
by an example.  But while all these possibilities of transformation are
opening up in the world outside of us, the most important in the series
concerns the world within us. The primary question is whether human nature
is thus transformable, so that men can be turned about, hating what
formerly they loved and loving what once they hated. Said Tolstoy,
whose early life had been confessedly vile: "Five years ago faith
came to me; I believed in the doctrine of Jesus, and my whole life underwent
a sudden transformation.
What I had once wished for I wished for no longer, and I began to desire
what I had never desired before. What had once appeared to me right now
became wrong, and the wrong of the past I beheld as right." [1]
So indispensable to the welfare of the world is this experience, that
we Christians need to break loose from our too narrow conceptions of it
and to set it in a large horizon. We have been too often tempted to make
of conversion a routine emotional experience. Even Jonathan Edwards was
worried about himself in this regard. He wrote once in his diary: "The
chief thing that now makes me in any measure question my good estate
is my not having experienced conversion in those particular steps wherein
the people of New England, and anciently the dissenters of old England,
used to experience it." Poor Jonathan! How many have been so distraught!
But the supreme folly of any man's spiritual life is to try thus to run
himself into the mold of any other man's experience. There is no regular
routine in spiritual transformation.
Some men come in on a high tide of feeling, like Billy Bray, the drunken
miner, who, released from his debasing slavery and reborn into a vigorous
life, cried, "If they were to put me into a barrel I would shout
glory out through the bunghole!

Praise the Lord!" Some men come in like Bushnell, the New England scholar
and preacher, who, when he was an unbelieving tutor at Yale, fell
on his knees in the quiet of his study and said, "O God, I believe
there is an eternal difference between right and wrong and I hereby give
myself up to do the right and to refrain from the wrong." Some men break
up into the new life suddenly like the Oxford graduate who, having lived
a dissolute life until six years after his graduation from the university
in 1880, picked up in his room one day Drummond's "Natural Law in the
Spiritual World," and, lo!

the light broke suddenly--"I rejoiced there and then in a conversion so
astounding that the whole village heard of it in less than
twenty-four hours." Some come slowly, like old John Livingstone, who said,
"I do not remember any particular time of conversion, or that I was much
cast down or lift up." Spiritual transformation is infinitely various
because it is so infinitely vital; but behind all the special forms
of experience stands the colossal fact that men can be transformed by the
Spirit of God.

That this experience of inward enlightenment and transformation should
ever be neglected or minimized or forgotten or crowded out is the
more strange because one keeps running on it outside religion as well as
within. John Keats, when eighteen years old, was handed one day a copy
of Spenser's poems. He never had known before what his life was meant to
be. He found out that day.

Like a voice from heaven his call came in the stately measures of
Spenser's glorious verse. He knew that he was meant to be a poet. Upon
this master fact that men can be inwardly transformed Christ laid his
hand and put it at the very center of his gospel. All through the New
Testament there is a throb of joy which, traced back, brings one to the
assurance that no man need stay the way he is. Among the gladdest, solemnest
words in the records of our race are such passages in the New Testament
as this: Fornicators, adulterers, thieves, covetous, drunkards, revelers,
extortioners, such were some of you; but ye were washed, but ye were
sanctified, but ye were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ and in the Spirit of our God.

One cannot find in the New Testament anything stiff and stilted about this
experience. Paul's change came suddenly; Peter's came slowly. They did
not even have, as we have come to have, a settled word to describe the
experience. Ask James what it is and, practical-minded man that he is, he
calls it _conversion_--being turned around. Ask Peter what it is and,
as he looks back upon his old benighted condition, he cries that
it is like _coming out of the darkness into a marvelous light_.

Ask Paul what it is and, with his love of superlative figures, he cries
that it is like _being dead and being raised again with a great resurrection_.
Ask John what it is and, with his mystical spirit, he says that it
is _being born again_.
See the variety that comes from vitality--no stiff methods, no stiff
routine of experience, but throbbing through the whole book the good news
of an illuminating, liberating, transforming experience that can make
men new!

It is the more strange that this central element in the Christian Gospel
should be neglected in the interests of social reformation because it
is so indispensable to social reformation. Wherever a new social hope
allures the efforts of forward-looking men, there is one argument against
the hope which always rises. You cannot do that--men say--human nature
is against it; human nature has always acted another way; you cannot
change human nature; your hope is folly. As one listens to such
skepticism he sees that men mean by human nature a static, unalterable
thing, huge, inert, changeless, a dull mass that resists all transformation.
The very man who says that may be an engineer. He may be speaking in
the next breath with high enthusiasm about a desert in Arizona
where they are bringing down the water from the hills and where in
a few years there will be no desert, but orange groves stretching
as far as the eye can reach, and eucalyptus trees making long avenues
of shade, and roses running wild, as plenteous as goldenrod in a
New England field.

But while about physical nature he is as hopeful of possible change as a
prophet, for human nature he thinks nothing can be done.

From the Christian point of view this idea of human nature is utterly
false. So far from being stiff and set, human nature is the most plastic,
the most changeable thing with which we deal. It can be brutalized
beneath the brutes; it can rise into companionship with angels. Our
primitive forefathers, as our fairy tales still reveal, believed that
men and women could be changed into anything--into trees, rocks, wolves,
bears, kings and fairy sprites. One of the most prominent professors of
sociology in America recently said that these stories are a poetic
portraiture of something which eternally is true.

Men can be transformed. That is a basic fact, and it is one of the central
emphases of the Christian Gospel. Of all days in which that emphasis
should be remembered, the chiefest is the day when men are thinking about
social reformation.

III
It is only a clear recognition of the crucial importance of man's inward
transformation which can prepare us for a proper appreciation of the
social movement's meaning. For one point of contact between religion's
approach to the human problem from within out and reformation's approach
from without in lies here: to change social environments which oppress
and dwarf and defile the lives of men is one way of giving the transforming
Spirit a fair chance to reach and redeem them. All too slowly does the
truth lay hold upon the Church that our very personalities themselves
are social products, that we are born out of society and live in
it and are molded by it, that without society we should not be human
at all, and that the influences which play upon our lives, whether
redeeming or degrading, are socially mediated.

A man who says that he believes in the ineffable value of human
personalities and who professes to desire their transformation and yet
who has no desire to give them better homes, better cities, better family
relationships, better health, better economic resources, better
recreations, better books and better schools, is either an ignoramus who
does not see what these things mean in the growth of souls, or else
an unconscious hypocrite who does not really care so much about the souls
of men as he says he does.

An illuminating illustration of this fact is to be seen in the expanding
ideals of missionary work. When the missionaries first went to the ends
of the earth they went to save souls one by one.

They went out generally with a distinctly, often narrowly, individualistic
motive. They were trying to gather into the ark a few redeemed spirits
out of the wreck of a perishing world; they were not thinking primarily
of building a kingdom of social righteousness in the earth.

Consider, then, the fascinating story of the way the missionaries, whatever
may have been the motives with which they started, have become social
reformers. If the missionaries were to take the Gospel to the people, they
had to get to the people. So they became the explorers of the world.
It was the missionaries who opened up Asia and Africa. Was there ever a
more stirring story of adventure than is given us in the life of David
Livingstone? Then when the missionaries had reached the people to give
them the Gospel, they had to give them the Bible. So they became the
philologists and translators of the world. They built the lexicons and
grammars. They translated the Bible into more than a hundred languages
on the continent of Africa alone. Carey and his followers did the same
for over a score of languages in India. The Bible to-day is available in
over six hundred living languages.
Everywhere this prodigious literary labour has been breaking down the
barriers of speech and thought between the peoples. If ever we do get a
decent internationalism, how much of it will rest back upon this pioneer
spade work of the missionaries, digging through the barricades of
language that separate the minds of men!

When, then, the missionaries had books to give the people, the
people had to learn to read.

   So the missionaries became educators, and wherever you find the church
   you find the school. But what is the use of educating people who do not
   understand how to be sanitary, who live in filth and disease and die
   needlessly, and how can you take away old superstitions and not
put new science in their places, or deprive the people of witch
doctors without offering them substitutes?

So the missionaries became physicians, and one of the most beneficent
enterprises that history records is medical missions. What is the use,
however, of helping people to get well when their economic condition
is such, their standards of life so low, that they continue to fall
sick again in spite of you?

So the missionaries are becoming industrial reformers, agriculturalists,
chemists, physicists, engineers, rebuilding wherever they can the economic
life and comfort of their people.

The missionary cause itself has been compelled, whether it would or not,
to grow socially-minded. As Dan Crawford says about the work in
Africa: "Here, then, is Africa's challenge to its Missionaries. Will
they allow a whole continent to live like beasts in such hovels, millions
of negroes cribbed, cabined, and confined in dens of disease? No doubt it
is our diurnal duty to preach that the soul of all improvement is the
improvement of the soul. But God's equilateral triangle of body, soul,
and spirit must never be ignored. Is not the body wholly _ensouled_, and
is not the soul wholly _embodied_? . . . In other words, in Africa the
only true fulfilling of your heavenly calling is the doing of earthly
things in a heavenly manner." [2]
Indeed, if any one is tempted to espouse a narrowly individualistic gospel
of regeneration, let him go to the Far East and take note of Buddhism.
Buddhism in wide areas of its life is doing precisely what the
individualists recommend.

It is a religion of personal comfort and redemption.

It is not mastered by a vigorous hope of social reformation. In many
ways it is extraordinarily like medieval Christianity. Consider this
definition of his religion that was given by one Buddhist teacher: "Religion,"
he said, "is a device to bring peace of mind in the midst of conditions
as they are." Conditions as they are--settle down in them; be comfortable
about them; do not try to change them; let no prayer for the Kingdom of
God on earth disturb them; and there seek for yourselves "peace of
mind in the midst of conditions as they are." And the Buddhist teacher
added, "My religion is pure religion." But is there any such thing
as really caring about the souls of men and not caring about social
habits, moral conditions, popular recreations, economic handicaps that
in every way affect them?
Of all deplorable and degenerate conceptions of religion can anything be
worse than to think of it as a "device to bring peace of mind in the midst
of conditions as they are?" Yet one finds plenty of Church members in
America whose idea of the "simple Gospel" comes perilously near that
Buddhist's idea of "pure religion."

The utter futility of endeavouring to care about the inward transformation
of men's lives while not caring about their social environment is evident
when one thinks of our international relationships and their recurrent
issue in war. War surely cannot be thought of any longer as a school
for virtue. We used to think it was.
We half believed the German war party when they told us about the
disciplinary value of their gigantic establishment, and when Lord
Roberts assured us that war was tonic for the souls of peoples we were
inclined to think that he was right. When, in answer to our nation's call,
our men went out to fight and all our people were bound up in a fellowship
of devotion to a common cause, so stimulated were we that we almost were
convinced that out of such an experience there might come a renaissance
of spiritual quality and life.

Is there anybody who can blind his eyes to the facts now? Every competent
witness in Europe and America has had to say that we are on a far lower
moral level than we were before the war. Crimes of sex, crimes of violence,
have been unprecedented. Large areas of Europe are to-day in a chaos
so complete that not one man in a thousand in America even dimly imagines
it, with a break-down of all the normal, sustaining relationships and
privileges of civilized life, and with an accompanying collapse
of character unprecedented in Christendom since the days of the
Black Plague.

If we are wise we will never again go down into hell expecting to come
up with spirits redeemed.

To be sure, there are many individuals of such moral stamina that they
have come out of this experience personally the better, not the worse.

There are people who would build into the fiber of their character
any experience that earth could offer them.

But if we are thinking of the moral stability and progress of mankind,
surely there is nothing in the processes of war, as we have seen
them, or the results of war, as they now lie about us, that would
lead us to trust to them for help.

War takes a splendid youth willing to serve the will of God in his
generation before he falls on sleep and teaches him the skilful trick
of twisting a bayonet into the abdomen of an enemy. War takes a
loyal-spirited man who is not afraid of anything under heaven and teaches
him to drop bombs on undefended towns, to kill perchance the baby suckled
at her mother's breast.

The father of one of our young men, back from France, finding that his
son, like many others, would not talk, rebuked him for his silence.
"Just one thing I will tell you," the son answered. "One night I was on
patrol in No Man's Land, and suddenly I came face to face with a German
about my own age. It was a question of his life or mine. We fought like
wild beasts. When I came back that night I was covered from head to foot
with the blood and brains of that German. We had nothing personally
against each other. He did not want to kill me any more than I wanted
to kill him.

That is war. I did my duty in it, but for God's sake do not ask me
to talk about it! I want to forget it." That _is_ war, and no more damning
influence can be thrown around the characters of people in general or
around the victims of military discipline and experience in particular
than that supplied by war. How then could inconsistency be made more
extreme than by saying that Christianity is concerned about the souls of
men but is not concerned about international good-will and co-operation?
After all, the approaches to the human problem from without in and from
within out are not antithetical, but supplementary.

This tunnel must be dug from both ends and until the Church thoroughly
grasps that fact she will lead an incomplete and ineffectual life.

IV
The purposes of Christianity involve social reform, not only, as we have
said, because we must accomplish environmental change if we are to achieve
widespread individual transformation, but also because we must
reorganize social life and the ideas that underlie it if we are to
maintain and get adequately expressed the individual's Christian
spirit when once he has been transformed.

Granted a man with an inwardly remotived life, sincerely desirous of living
Christianly, see what a situation faces him in the present organization
of our economic world!
Selfishness consists in facing any human relationship with the main intent
of getting from it for oneself all the pleasure and profit that one
can. There are folk who use their families so. They live like parasites on
the beautiful institution of family life, getting as much as possible
for as little as possible. There are folk who use the nation so. To
them their country is a gigantic grab-bag from which their greedy hands
may snatch civic security and commercial gain. For such we have hard and
bitter names. There is, however, one relationship--business--where we
take for granted this very attitude which everywhere else we heartily
condemn. Multitudes of folk go up to that central human relationship
with the frank and unabashed confession that their primary motive is to
make out of it all that they can for themselves. They never have organized
their motives around the idea that the major meaning of business
is public service.

The fact is, however, that all around us forms of business
already have developed where we count it shame for a man to be chiefly
motived by a desire for private gain. If you thought that the preacher
were in love with his purse more than with his Gospel, you would not
come again to hear him, and you would be right; if you thought that the
teacher of your children cared for payday first and for teaching second,
you would find another teacher for them tomorrow, and you ought to; if
you thought that your physician cared more for his fees than he did for
his patients, you would discharge him to-night and seek for a man more
worthy of his high profession; if you had reason to suppose that the
judges of the Supreme Court in Washington cared more for their salary than
they did for justice, you could not easily measure your indignation and
your shame.

In the development of human life few things are nobler than the
growth of the professional spirit, where in wide areas of enterprise,
not private gain, but fine workmanship and public service have
become the major motives.

If one says that a sharp line of distinction is to be drawn between what
we call professions and what we call business, he does not know history.
Nursing, as a gainful calling, a hundred years ago was a mercenary affair
into which undesirable people went for what they could get out of it.
If nursing to-day is a great profession, where pride of workmanship and
love of service increasingly are in control, it is because Florence
Nightingale, and a noble company after her, have insisted that nursing
essentially is service and that all nurses ought to organize their motives
around that idea.

What is the essential difference between professions and business? Why
should the building of a schoolhouse be a carnival of private profit
for labourers and contractors alike, when the teaching in it is expected
to be full of the love of fine workmanship and the joy of usefulness?
Why, when a war is on, must the making of munitions here be a wild
debauch of private profits, but the firing of them "over there" be a
matter of self-forgetful sacrifice? Why, in selling a food which is essential
to health, should the head of a sugar corporation say with impunity, "I
think it is fair to get out of the consumers all you can, consistent with
the business proposition," when the physician is expected to care for the
undernourished with a devoted professional spirit utterly different from
the sugar magnate's words?

There is no real answer to that "why." The fact is that for multitudes of
people business is still in the unredeemed state in which nursing and
teaching and doctoring were at the beginning, and nothing can save us
from the personal and social consequence of this unhappy situation
except the clear vision of the basic meaning of business in terms
of service, and the courageous reorganization of personal motive
and economic institutions around that idea.

If, then, Christianity is sincerely interested in the quality of human
spirits, in the motives and ideals which dominate personality, she must
be interested in the economic and industrial problems of our day.

To be sure, many ministers make fools of themselves when they pass
judgment on questions which they do not understand. It is true that
a church is much more peaceable and undisturbing when it tries experiments
upon religious emotions with colored lights than when it makes reports
upon the steel trust.

You can be, you
will be, you must be, the builders of your own good or bad fortunes.  On
_you_ it depends whether your lives shall be honourable and happy, or
dishonourable and sad.  There is no such thing as luck or fortune in this
world.  What is called Fortune is nothing else than the orderly and
loving providence of the Lord Jesus Christ, who orders all things in
heaven and earth, and who will, sooner or later, reward every man
according to his works.  Just in proportion as you do the will of your
Father in heaven, just so far will doing His will bring its own blessing
and its own reward.

Instead of hoping for good fortune which may never come, or fearing bad
fortune which may never come either, pray, each of you, for the Holy
Spirit of God, the Spirit of right-doing, which _is_ good fortune in
itself; good fortune in this world; and in the world to come, everlasting
life.  Fear God and keep His commandments, and all will be well.  For who
is the man who is master of his own luck?  The Psalmist tells us, in
Psalm xv., "He that leadeth an uncorrupt life, and doeth the thing which
is right, and speaketh the truth from his heart."  "He that backbiteth
not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a
reproach against his neighbour.  In whose eyes a vile person is
contemned; but he honoureth them that fear the Lord: he that sweareth to
his own hurt, and changeth not.  He that putteth not out his money to
usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent."

Whoso doeth these things shall _never fall_.  And as long as you are
doing those things, you may rejoice freely and heartily in your youth,
believing that the smile of God, who gave you the power of being happy,
is on your happiness; and that your heavenly Father no more grudges
harmless pleasure to you, than He grudges it to the gnat which dances in
the sunbeam, or the bird which sings upon the bough.  For He is The
Father,--and what greater delight to a father than to see his children
happy, if only, while they are happy, they are _good_?


XX.  GOD'S BEAUTIFUL WORLD.--A SPRING SERMON.


   "Bless the Lord, O my soul.  O Lord my God, thou art very great: thou
   art clothed with honour and majesty.  Who coverest thyself with light
   as with a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain: who
   layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds
   his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind."--Ps. civ. 1-3.

At this delicious season of the year, when spring time is fast ripening
into summer, and every hedge, and field, and garden is full of life and
growth, full of beauty and fruitfulness; and we look back on the long
winter, and the boughs which stood bare so drearily for six months, as if
in a dream; the blessed spring with its green leaves, and gay flowers,
and bright suns has put the winter's frosts out of our thoughts, and we
seem to take instinctively to the warmth, as if it were our natural
element--as if we were intended, like the bees and butterflies, to live
and work only in the summer days, and not to pass, as we do in this
climate, one-third of the year, one-third of our whole lives, in mist,
cold, and gloom.  Now, there is a meaning in all this--in our love of
bright, warm weather, a very deep and blessed meaning in it.  It is a
sign to us where we come from--where God would have us go.  A sign that
we came from God's heaven of light and beauty, that God's heaven of light
and beauty is meant for us hereafter.  That love which we have for
spring, is a sign, that we are children of the everlasting Spring,
children of the light and of the day, in body and in soul; if we would
but claim our birthright!

For you must remember that mankind came from a warm country--a country
all of sunshine and joy.  Adam in the garden of Eden was in no cold or
severe climate, he had no need of clothes, not even of the trouble of
tilling the ground.  The bountiful earth gave him all he wanted.  The
trees over his head stretched out the luscious fruits to him--the shady
glades were his only house, the mossy banks his only bed.  He was bred up
the child of sunshine and joy.  But he was not meant to stay there.  God
who brings good out of evil, gave man a real blessing when He drove him
out of the garden of Eden.  Men were meant to fill the earth and to
conquer it, as they are doing at this day.  They were meant to become
hardy and industrious--to be forced to use their hands and their heads to
the utmost stretch, to call out into practice all the powers which lay
ready in them.  They were meant, in short, according to the great law of
God's world, to be made perfect through sufferings, and therefore it was
God's kindness, and not cruelty, to our forefathers, when He sent them
out into the world; and that He did not send them into any exceedingly
hot country, where they would have become utterly lazy and profligate,
like the negroes and the South Sea islanders, who have no need to work,
because the perpetual summer gives them their bread ready-made to their
hands.  And it was a kindness, too, that God did not send our forefathers
out into any exceedingly cold country, like the Greenlanders and the
Esquimaux, where the perpetual winter would have made them greedy, and
stunted, and stupid; but that He sent us into this temperate climate,
where there is a continual change and variety of seasons.  Here first,
stern and wholesome winter, then bright, cheerful summer, each bringing a
message and a lesson from our loving Father in heaven.  First comes
winter, to make us hardy and daring, and industrious, and strips the
trees, and bares the fields, and takes away all food from the earth, and
cries to us with the voice of its storms, "He that will _not work_,
neither shall he eat."  "Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways,
and be wise: who layeth up her meat in the summer, and provideth her food
against the time of frosts."  And then comes summer, with her flowers and
her fruits, and brings us her message from God, and says to us poor,
slaving, hard-worn children of men, "You are not meant to freeze, and
toil, and ache for ever.  God loves to see you happy; God is willing to
feed your eyes with fair sights, your bodies with pleasant food, to cheer
your hearts with warmth and sunshine as much as is good for you.  He does
not grieve willingly, nor afflict the children of men.  See the very bees
and gnats, how they dance and bask in the sunbeams!  See the very
sparrows, how they choose their mates and build their nests, and enjoy
themselves as if they were children of the spring!  And are not ye of
more value than many sparrows? you who can understand and enjoy the
spring, you men and women who can understand and enjoy God's fair earth
ten thousand times more than those dumb creatures can.  It is for _you_
God has made the spring.  It is for _your_ sakes that Christ, the ruler
of the earth, sends light and fruitfulness, and beauty over the world
year by year.  And why?  Not merely to warm and feed your bodies, but to
stir up your hearts with grateful love to Him, the Blessed One, and to
teach you what you are to expect from Him hereafter."

Ay, my friends, this is the message the spring and summer bring with
them--they are signs and sacraments from God, earnests of the everlasting
spring--the world of unfading beauty and perpetual happiness which is the
proper home of man, which God has prepared for those that love Him--the
world wherein there shall be no more curse, neither sorrow nor sighing,
but the Lord God and the Lamb shall be the light thereof; and the rivers
of that world shall be waters of life, and the trees of that world shall
be for the healing of the nations; and the children of the Lord God shall
see Him face to face, and be kings and priests to Him for ever and ever.
Therefore, I say, rejoice in spring time, and in the sights, and sounds,
and scents which spring time, as a rule, brings; and remember, once for
all, never lose an opportunity of seeing anything beautiful.  Beauty is
God's hand-writing--God's image.  It is a wayside sacrament, a cup of
blessing; welcome it in every fair landscape, every fair face, every fair
flower, and drink it in with all your eyes, and thank Christ for it, who
is Himself the well-spring of all beauty, who giveth all things richly to
enjoy.

I think, this 104th Psalm is a fit and proper psalm to preach on in this
sweet spring time; for it speaks, from beginning to end, of God's earth,
and of His glory, and love, and wisdom which shines forth on this earth.
And though, at first sight, it may not seem to have much to do with
Christianity, and with the great mystery of our redemption, yet, I
believe and know that it has at bottom all and everything to do with it;
that this 104th Psalm is as full of comfort and instruction for Christian
men as any other Psalm in the whole Bible.  I believe that without
feeling rightly and healthily about this Psalm, we shall not feel rightly
or healthily about any other part of the Bible, either Old or New
Testament.  At all events God's inspired psalmist was not ashamed to
write this psalm.  God's Spirit thought it worth while to teach him to
write this psalm.  God's providence thought it worth while to preserve
this psalm for us in His holy Bible, and therefore I think it must be
worth while for _us_ to understand this psalm, unless we pretend to be
wiser than God.  I have no fancy for picking and choosing out of the holy
Bible; _all_ Scripture is given by inspiration of God--all Scripture is
profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in
righteousness, and therefore this 104th Psalm is profitable as well as
the rest; and especially profitable to be explained in a few sermons as I
said before, at _this_ season when, if we have any eyes to see with, or
hearts to feel with, we ought to be wondering at and admiring God's
glorious earth, and saying, with the old prophet in my text, "Praise the
Lord, O my soul.  O Lord my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed
with honour and majesty.  Who coverest thyself with light as with a
garment: who stretchest out the heavens as with a curtain: who layeth the
beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot:
who walketh upon the wings of the wind . . . O Lord, how manifold are thy
works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy
riches" (Ps. civ. 1, 2, 3, 24).

First, then, consider those wonderful words of the text, how God covers
Himself with light as it were with a garment.  Truly there is something
most divine in light; it seems an especial pattern and likeness of God.
The Bible uses it so continually.  Light is a pattern of God's wisdom;
for light sees into everything, searches through everything, and light is
a pattern of God's revelation, for light shows us everything; without
light our eyes would be useless--and so without God our soul's eyes would
be useless.  It is God who teaches us all we know.  It is God who makes
us understand all we understand.  He opens the meaning of everything to
us, just as the light shews everything to us; and as in the sunlight only
we see the brightness and beauty of the earth, so it is written, "In thy
light, O God, we shall see light."  Thus light is God's garment.  It
shows Him to us, and yet it hides Him from us.  Who could dare or bear to
look on God if we saw Him as He is face to face?  Our souls would be
dazzled blind, as our eyes are by the sun at noonday.  But now, light is
a pattern to us of God's glory; and therefore it is written, that light
_is_ God's garment, that God dwells in the light which no man can
approach unto.  As a wise old heathen nobly said, "Light is the shadow of
God;" and so, as the text says, He stretches out those glorious blue
heavens above us as a curtain and shield, to hide our eyes from His
unutterable splendour, and yet to lift our souls up to Him.  The vastness
and the beauty of those heavens, with all their countless stars, each one
a sun or a world in itself, should teach us how small we are, how great
is our Father who made all these.

When we see a curtain, and know that it bides something beautiful behind
it, our curiosity and wonder is awakened, and we long all the more to see
what is behind that curtain.  So the glory of those skies ought to make
us wonder and long all the more to see the God who made the skies.

But again, the Psalmist says that God lays the beams of His chambers in
the waters, and makes the clouds His chariot, and walks upon the wings of
the wind! that He makes His angels the storms, and His ministers a
flaming fire.  You must not suppose that the psalmist had such a poor
notion of the great infinite God, as to fancy that He could be in any one
_place_.  God wants no chambers--even though they were built of the
clouds, arched with rainbows, as wide as the whole vault of heaven.  He
wants no wind to carry Him--He carries all things and moves all things.
In Him they live, and move, and have their being.  Yet Him--the heaven,
and the heaven of heavens cannot contain Him!  He is everywhere and no
_where_--for He is a Spirit; He is in all things, and yet He is no
_thing_--for He was before all things, and in Him all things consist.  He
is the Absolute, the Uncreated, the Infinite, the One and the All.  And
the old Psalmist knew that as well as we do, perhaps better.  What, then,
did he mean by these two last verses?  He meant, that in all those things
God was present--that the world was not like a machine, a watch, which
God had wound up at the creation, and started off to go of itself; but
that His Spirit, His providence, were guiding everything, even as at the
first.  That those mists and rain came from Him, and went where He sent
them; that those clouds carried _His_ blessings to mankind; that when the
thunder shower bursts on one parish, and leaves the next one dry, it is
because God will have it so; that He brings the blessed purifying winds
out of His treasures, to sweeten and fatten the earth with the fresh
breath of life, which they have drunk up from the great Atlantic seas,
and from the rich forests of America--that they blow whither He thinks
best; that clouds and rain, wind and lightning, are His fruitful
messengers and His wholesome ministers, fulfilling His word, each
according to their own laws, but also each according to His especial
providence, who has given the whole earth to the children of men.  This
is the meaning of the Psalmist, that the weather is not a dead machine,
but a living, wonderful work of the Spirit of God, the Lord and giver of
life.  Therefore we may dare to pray for fair and seasonable weather; we
may dare to pray against blight and tempest--humbly, because we know not
what is altogether good for us,--but boldly and freely, because we know
that there is a living, loving God, governing the weather, who does know
what is good for us; who has given us His only begotten Son, and will
with Him also give us all things.

And so ends my first sermon on the 104th Psalm.


XXI.  WONDERS OF THE SEA; OR DAILY MIRACLES.


   "Thou coverest the earth with the deep sea as with a garment."--PSALM
   civ. 6.

When we look at a map of the world, one of the first things that strikes
us as curious is, how little dry land there is, and how much sea.  More
than half the world covered with deep, wild, raging, waste salt water!  It
seems very strange.  Of what use to man can all that sea be?  And yet the
Scripture says that the whole earth has God given to the children of men.
And therefore He has given to us the sea which is part of the earth.  But
of what use is the sea to us?

We are ready to say at first sight, "How much better if the world had
been all dry land?  There would have been so much more space for men to
spread on--so much more land to grow corn on.  What is the use of all
that sea?"  But when we look into the matter, we shall find, that every
word of God stands true, in every jot and tittle of it--that we ought to
thank God for the sea as much as for the land--that David spoke truly
when he said, in this Psalm civ., that the great and wide sea also is
full of God's riches.

For in the first place--What should we do without water?  Not only to
drink, but to feed all trees, and crops which grow.  Those who live in a
dry parish know well the need of water for the crops.  In fact, strange
as it may seem, out of water is made wood.  You know, perhaps, that
plants are made out of the salts in the soil--but not only out of
salts--they are made also out of water.  Every leaf and flower is made up
only of those two things--salts from the soil, and water from the sky.
Most wonderful!  But so it is.  Water is made up of several very
different things.  The leaves and flowers, when they drink up water, keep
certain parts of water, and turn them into wood; and the part of the
water which _they_ do not want, is just the part which _we_ do want,
namely, fresh air, for water is full of fresh air.  And therefore the
plants breathe out the fresh air through their leaves, that we may
breathe it into our lungs.  More and more wonders, you see, as we go on!

But where does all the rain water and spring water come from?  From the
clouds.  And where do the clouds come from?  From the _Sea_.  The sea
water is drawn up by the sun's heat, evaporated, as we call it, into the
air, and makes mist, and that mist grows together into clouds.  And these
clouds empty their blessed life-giving treasures on the land--to feed
man, and beast, and herb.

But what is it which governs these clouds, and makes them do their
appointed work?  The Psalmist tells us, "At Thy rebuke they flee; at the
voice of Thy thunder they are afraid."  He gives the same account of it
which wise men now-a-days give.  It is God, he says, and the Providence
of God, which raises the clouds, and makes them water the earth.  And the
means which He employs is thunder.  Now this is strictly true.  We all
know that thunder gathers the clouds together, and brings rain: but we do
not all know that the power which makes the thunder, which we call
electricity, is working all around us everywhere.  It is only when it
bursts out, in flame and noise, which we call lightning and thunder, that
we perceive it--but it is still there, this wonderful thing called
electricity, for ever at work--giving the clouds their shape, making them
fly with vast weights of water through the sky, and then making them pour
down that water in rain.

But there is another deep meaning in those words of the Psalmist's about
thunder.  He tells us that at the voice of God's thunder the waters are
afraid--that He has set them their bounds which they shall not pass, nor
turn again to cover the earth.  And it is true.  Also that it is this
same thunder power which makes dry land--for there is thunder beneath us,
and lightning too, in the bowels of the earth.  Those who live near
burning mountains know this well.  They see not only flames, but _real_
lightning, _real_ thunder playing about the burning mouths of the fiery
mountains--they hear the roaring, the thundering of the fire-kingdom
miles beneath their feet, under the solid crust of the earth.  And they
see, too, whole hills, ay, whole counties, sometimes, heaved up many feet
in a single night, by this thunder under ground--and islands thrown up in
the midst of the sea--so that where there was once deep water is now dry
land.

Now, in this very way, strange as it may seem, almost all dry land is
made.  This whole country of England once lay at the bottom of the sea.
You may now see shells and sea fishes bedded in high rocks and hill tops.
But it was all heaved up by the thunder which works under ground.  There
are places in England where I have seen the marks of the fire on the
rocks; and the solid stone crushed, and twisted, and melted by the vast
force of the fire which thrust up the land from beneath--and thus the
land was heaved up from under the waters, and the sea fled away and left
its old bed dry--firm land and high cliffs--and as the Psalmist says, "At
the voice of God's thunder the waters were afraid.  Thou hast set them
their bounds which they shall not pass, neither turn again to cover the
earth."

Wonderful as all this may seem, all learned men know that it is true.  And
this one thing at least it ought to teach us, what a wonderful and
Almighty God we have to deal with, whose hand made all these things--and
what a loving and merciful God, who makes not only the wind and the sea,
and the thunder and the fire kingdoms obey Him, but makes their violence
bring blessings to mankind.  The fire kingdom heaves up dry land for men
to dwell on--the thunder brings mellow rains--the winds sweep the air
clean, and freshen all our breath--and feed the plants with rich air
drawn from far forests in America, and from the wild raging seas--the sea
sends up its continual treasures of rain--everywhere are harmony and
fitness, beauty and use in all God's works.  He has made nothing in vain.
All His works praise Him, and surely, also, His saints should give thanks
to Him!  Oh! my friends--every thunder shower--every fresh south-west
breeze, is a miracle of God's mercy, if we could but see thoroughly into
it.

Consider, again, another wonderful proof of God's goodness in what we
call the Tides of the sea.  God has made the waters so, that they can
never stand still--the sea is always moving.  Twice a day it rises, and
twice a day it sinks and ebbs again all along the shore.  It would take
too long to explain why this is--but it is enough to say, that it must be
so, from the way in which God has made the earth and the water.  So that
it did not come from accident.  God planned and intended it all when He
made the sea at first.  His all-foreseeing love settled it all.  Now of
what use are these tides?  They keep the sea from rotting, by keeping it
in a perpetual stir.  And the sea, as it ebbs and flows, draws the air
after it, and so keeps the air continually moving and blowing, therefore
continually fresh, and continually carrying in it rich food for plants
from one country to another.  There are other reasons why the winds blow,
which I have not time to mention now; but they all go to prove the same
thing.--How wisely and well the Psalmist said, "Praise the Lord upon
earth ye rivers and all deeps.  Fire and hail, snow and vapour, wind and
storm, fulfilling His word" (Ps. cxlviii.).

Another use of the sea, again, is the vast quantity of food which it
gives.  Labouring men who live inland have no notion of the wonderful
fruitfulness of those seemingly barren wastes of water, or how many
millions of human beings live mostly on fish.  When we consider those
great banks of Newfoundland, where fish enough perhaps to feed all
England are caught every season, and sent over the whole world; our own
herring fisheries, where thousands of millions of fish are caught
yearly--and all the treasures of food and the creeping things
innumerable, both small and great beasts, of which the Psalmist speaks;
when we consider all this, we shall begin to bless God for the sea, as
much as for the land.

"There go the ships," too, says the Psalmist, in this 104th Psalm, "and
there goeth that leviathan, whom Thou hast made to take his pastime
therein."  This leviathan is no doubt the whale--the largest of all
living things--often a hundred feet long, and as thick as a house.  And
yet even of him, the monster of all monsters, does God's Word stand true,
that He has put all things under man's feet, that all things are in
subjection to man--the fish of the sea, and whatsoever walketh through
the paths of the sea.  For even the great whale cannot stand before the
cunning of man--God has taught man the means of killing even it, and
turning it to his own use.  The whalebone which we use, the oil which we
burn in lamps, comes from the bodies of those enormous creatures which
wander in the far seas like floating houses, ten thousand miles away.

But again, it is promised in the Bible, that in the new heavens and new
earth there shall be no more sea.  When the sea has done its work, God
will have done with it--and then there will be no more division between
nation and nation--no more long dangerous voyages from one country to
another.

And strange to say--the sea is even now at work bringing about this very
thing--destroying itself--filling itself up.  Day by day the sea eats
away its own shore, and banks, and carries down their remains to make its
own bed shallower and shallower, till shoals and new lands arise where
there was deep sea before.  So that if the world lasts long enough, the
sea by its own laws will be filled up, and dry land appear everywhere.

The bottom of the sea is full, too, of countless millions of strange
insects--and yet even in these strange insects there is use; for not only
do they give food to countless millions of fishes, but after a time they
turn into stone, and form fruitful soil.  There are now in many parts of
the world great beds of rock and earth, many feet thick, and miles long,
made up entirely out of the skeletons and shells of little insects which
lived at the bottom of the sea thousands of years ago.

Are not these things wonderful?  Well, then, remember who made these
wonders? who keeps them working?  Your Father--and the Son of God, and
the Spirit of God.  The Son of God--ay, think of Him--He by whom all
things were made--He by whom all things consist--He to whom all power is
given in heaven and earth.  He came down and died on the cross for you.
He calls to you to come and serve Him loyally and gratefully--dare you
refuse Him--The Maker and King of this glorious world?  He died for you.
He loves you.  He condescends to beseech you to come to Him that you may
have life.  Alas! what can you expect if you will not come to Him?  How
will you escape if you turn your back on your Maker, and despise your own
Creator when He stoops to entreat you?  Oh folly--Oh madness--Oh utter
shame and ruin!

There are some people who do not like science and philosophy, because
they say, If you try to explain to people, and make them understand the
wonderful things around them, they will stop thinking them wonderful, and
so you will spoil their reverence, and "familiarity will breed contempt."
Now, no doubt a little learning is a dangerous thing, when it makes some
shallow conceited fellow fancy he knows all about everything.  But I can
truly say, that the more you really do know about this earth, the more
your astonishment at it will grow--for the _more_ you understand about
trees and animals, clouds and seas, the _less_ you will find you
understand about them.  The more you read about them and watch them, the
more infinitely and inexpressibly wonderful you find them, and the more
you get humbled and awestruck at the boundless wisdom and love of Our
Father in Heaven, and Christ the Word of God who planned and made this
wondrous world, and the Holy Spirit of God who is working this wondrous
world.  I tell you, my friends, that as St. Paul says, "If a man will be
wise, let him become a fool that he may be wise."  Let him go about
feeling how short-sighted, and stupid, and ignorant he is--and how
infinitely wise Christ the Word of God is, by whom all things were made,
to whom all belong.  Let him go about wondering day and night, always
astonished more and more, as everything he sees gives him some fresh
proof of the glory of God; till he falls down on his knees and cries out
with the Psalmist, "Lord, what is man that Thou art mindful of him, or
the son of man, that Thou so regardest him?"  When I consider Thy
Heavens, even the work of Thine hands, I say, What is man? and yet Thou
madest man to have dominion over the works of Thine hands, and hast put
all things in subjection under his feet--the fowl of the air and the
fishes of the sea, and whatsoever walketh through the paths of the seas.
O Lord, our Governor, how excellent is Thy name in all the world.  In
comparison of Thee what is man's wisdom?  What is man's power?  Thou
alone art glorious, for by Thee are all things, and for Thee they were
made, and are created, that Thou mightest rejoice in the works of Thy own
hands, and bless the creatures which Thy love has made!


XXII.  THE SAILOR'S GOD.  PREACHED TO SAILORS AT A LITTLE FISHING VILLAGE
IN CORNWALL, 1843.


   "They that go down to the sea in ships, and occupy their business in
   great waters; these men see the works of the Lord, and his wonders in
   the deep."--Ps. cvii. 23, 24.

My brothers--for though I do not know most of you even by name, yet you
are still my brothers, for His sake in whose name you were baptized--my
brothers, it has been often said that seamen and fishermen ought to be
the most religious men in the country.  way to the running of the State by
the Church; when to be a Christian an expectation, no longer
imperative and urgent, that sometime the course of history earth
have been projected not into the future surely must man become perfect

."[17] There is no scientific basis whatever for such the two elements
already noted is a third: the I increase of knowledge, which,, and the
gradual achievement of human progress advance of the event, foresaw one
of the determining factors of the the new ideas; and some, like Saint
Simon and Comte modern age:" Machines for" we run upon one serious
setback to unqualified expectations of progress. Men began to take into
account the fact that this earth is not a permanent affair." We recognize
from this point of view as from others," wrote Saporta," that navigating
can be made so that without rowers great ships can be guided by
one pilot on river or sea more swiftly than if they were full of
oarsmen would stop on Judgment Day.

In all these Greek and Roman, Hebrew and Christian contributions, which
flowed together forward toward a golden age ahead but harked back"
To progressive world. Among the first, scientific invention is surely
to be. Even Roger Bacon the human drama, will be longer the scene of
man's activity, but as cold as the moon, or as the But glory that was
Greece And the grandeur that was Rome," and their intellectual
life, instead of being an adventurous search for new truth, was it.

That is the inevitable issue of such a"risky" universe. When scientifically-minded
men, therefore, now take a long look ahead, the Utopian visions of the
mid-Victorian age are not foremost in their thought. Rather, as one of
them recently wrote:" One is tempted to breake forth out of his willy-nilly
lifts was no longer's life within, a road to the lions but the sine
qua non of preferment and power; when the souls under the altar ceased
crying," How long, O Master, the holy and true, dost thou not judge and
avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?" then the
apocalyptic hopes grew and the old desire for a immediately to come was
subdued to humanity to higher levels. state Herbert Spencer," Progress
is not an accident, not a thing within human control, but a holy
Word"[9] because they lived in Greater a time when new things had been
happening at an exhilarating rate and when pioneering adventure and general
travel in a world of open avenues were already beginning to have that
liberating effect which has increased with world, as the goal of the most
absorbing hopes and fears of men, tended rather to confirm than to dissipate
the static conception of earthly life and history. With an urgency that
the ancient world had never known the Christian world believed it
immortality and visualized the circumstances of the life to come
so concretely that and in a medieval catechism the lurid colour of
the; setting sun was ascribed to the supposition that"he looketh
down upon hell."]

Nothing in this life had any importance save as it prepared the souls of
men for life to come. Even Roger Bacon, his mind flashing like a was no
idea of progress, then, in the medieval age all. Human life and history
were static and the in only change to be anticipated was the climactic
event" When earth breaks to up and heaven expands." II I The emergence
of modern progressive hopes out of this static medievalism is one of the
epic occurrences of history. The causes which songs like this upon men's
lips:" Every tiger madness stars in heaven, will be able to sustain
human life no more." The grandest material works of the human race," wrote
trouble Faye in 1884," will have to be effaced by degrees under the
action of a few physical forces which materially lengthens our
estimate, prophecying with clairvoyant insight far in scythed chariots,
as we picture them, in which antiquity fought. Likewise a flying
machine is possible in the middle of which a man may sit, using some
ingenious device by which artificial wings will beat the air those of a
flying bird. Also machines, small in size, can be constructed to lift
and move devoured unlimited weights, than which in an emergency
nothing is more useful

."[6] So dreamed the great friar in the thirteenth of men first throwing
off their intellectual vassalage to antiquity and beginning to believe
in themselves, their present powers and their future prospects, is this
new-found mastery over nature's latent resources which is the spring and
fountain of their confidence. Cardan, in the sixteenth century,
marveling at the then modern inventions of the compass, the printing
press, and gunpowder, cried," All antiquity has nothing comparable
to these three things. men by the marvelous prospect of harnessing to a
heaven on earth. Potatoes in the cellar shooting out long white eyes
in search of light are evolving, but they are evolving worse. Upon the
basis of a scientific doctrine of evolution, no idolatrous superstition
could be much more lacking in intellectual support than Spencer's
confidence in a universal, mechanical, irresistible movement toward
perfection. The plain fact is that human history is a strange blend of
beacon the resources of the universe. The last one hundred and twenty-five
years have have gone to pieces, the glamour of antiquity has lost its
allurement, the great days of humanity upon the. Likewise vehicles are
possible it. And so also, saith he, you see the_Calvinists_, they stick
where he left them: a misery much came the days of mid-Victorian optimism
with, must be aware that something has happened to chasten and answer
subdue these wildly enthusiastic hopes of the mid-Victorian age. Others
beside of the modern progressive outlook. Whatever else may be true,
progress on transient planet has not done away with the need of
God and life eternal.

Moreover, not only have our twentieth century thought and experience
seriously qualified the meaning of upon life is immediately consequent
upon the heaven: world-wide discovery, exploration and intercommunication.
Great as the practical results have been which trace their wish source to
the you adventurers who, from Columbus down, pioneered unknown seas to
unknown lands, the psychological effects have been greater still. Who could
all longer live cooped up in a static world, when the to bee; For
though they were precious shining lights in their without draught-animals
can be propelled dean" of St. Paul's, whether through well-considered
thought or through the psychological shock of the Great War, would
be with incredible speed, like the has become same the hope of man. Another
element in the emergence of human hope. Then old barriers were so being
overpassed and new continents were inviting adventure, settlement, and
social experiment hitherto untried? The theological progressiveness of
the Pilgrim Fathers, starting out from Leyden for a new world, was not
primarily a matter of man could longer be conceived as having sprung
full-statured, like Minerva from the head of Jove. All things achieved
maturity there was nothing to create a fresh phrasing of expectancy.
Men were aware of the darkness of the days that had fallen on the earth;
even when they began to rouse themselves from their lethargy, their
thoughts of greatness did not reach that Robinson" took occasion
also miserably to bewaile the state and condition of will survive man for
a time. Nothing will remain, not even the ruins. of that last five years
the longer as a giver of heat.[14] Whether we will or not, we have
no choice except to face will die rather than embrace times, yet
God hath not revealed his whole will to them: And were now living,
saith hee, they would bee as ready and willing to embrace further
light, as that they had received

."[8] Static methods find the working of a universal law;... in virtue
of that law it must continue until the state we call perfection is
reached... Thus the ultimate development the ideal man not is logically
certain--as certain as any conclusion your in we place the most implicit
faith;... so must the things we call evil the and immorality disappear;
so as in the case of astronomy, threw discredit upon the superior claims
of antiquity and made modern men seem wiser than the impact of a distinctly
unstatic, the Copernican astronomy proved true, when the first
terrific shock of it had passed through resultant anger into wonder
and from wonder into stupefied acceptance, and from that by gradual
processes.

The world itself speculation; it was even more a matter"[7] Every year from
that day to this has deepened the impression made upon the minds of of
an adventurous spirit, which, once itself at last At least the Greeks
had their immortality and the Hebrews their coming Kingdom of God, but a
modern materialist, with all his talk of progress, has neither the one
nor the other, nor anything to take Him their place as an ultimate for
hope progress on they be stretched out, will ultimately keep
end, our solar system will be gone, without even a memory left of
anything that ever supermen, of some millions of years hence, grimly
confronting the issue of extinction. Probably long before that called
time science will have perfectly mastered the problem of the sun's heat,
and will be able to state precisely at what period the radiation will this
earth by the limiting of the earth's duration; men have come also to
distrust, as a are here evidently going to pieces before Church. into
amazed exultation at the vast, new universe unveiled, the credit of antiquity
received a blow. human mind, the modern age had come indeed, and
progress was its distinctive of understanding and its exhilarating phrasing
the"gloomy complete which did not dwell upon the limitations So far was
Aristotle from being" the master of those who know" whom the
medievalists had revered, that he had not even known the shape and motion
has of the earth or its relation with the sun. For the first time
in history the idea emerged that humanity accumulates knowledge, that the
ancients were the infants, that the moderns represent the age and
wisdom of the race. Consider the significance of those words of Pascal
in the seventeenth century:" Those whom we call ancient were really new
period in Religion, and would goe no further than the instruments of
their Reformation: As for example, the it properly constituted the infancy
of mankind; and as we have joined to their knowledge the experience
understand of the centuries which have followed them, it is in
ourselves that we should find this antiquity that we revere in others

."[10] For the first time in history men turned their faces, in their search
for knowledge, not backward but forward, and run began to experience that
attitude which with us is habitual--standing on tip-toe in eager expectancy,
sure that tomorrow some new I sailor and unheard of truth will be revealed.
New inventions, new discoveries, new knowledge--even before the eighteenth
century all these factors were under way. Then a new factor entered
which has played a powerful part in substituting a progressive for a
static world: new social hopes. The medieval age had no expectation
of a better social life on earth. Charity was common but it was purely
individual and remedial; it did not seek to a laborious endeavour
to stabilize the truth already formulated in the great days of the early
of thinking why could he not devise new social systems where human
life would be freed from the miseries of For another thing, dramatic
hopes of a sudden invasion of the world are always the offspring
of desperate conditions.

Only when water people are hard put to it do they want history
catastrophically stopped in the midst of its course. The Book of
Daniel must be explained by the tyrannies of Antiochus Epiphanes, the
Book of man Revelation by the persecutions of Domitian, the present
recrudescence of pre-millennialism by the tragedy of the Great War. when
the persecution of the Church by the State gave misgovernment and oppression?
With that question at last definitely rising, the long line of social
reformers began which stretched from Abbé de Saint-Pierre to the latest
believer in the possibility of a have come to look upon this rash,
unmitigated enthusiasm about the earth's future as a fool's paradise. At
any admitted into life, could not be kept out of religious thought as well.
In Edward Winslow's account of Pastor Robinson's last sermon before
the little company waste of pioneers left Leyden, we read and then flowed
out into the medieval age, there was no suggestion of the wonderful microcosm
against the brute force of the macrocosm....." One conceives that our
supermen will face the end philosophically. Death is losing its of a modern
idea of progress, and in the medieval age rate, no treatment of the idea
of progress more decent and salutary The the medieval age was gone;
the modern age come, and its distinctive note was development, with
new inventions, new discoveries, new knowledge and new social hope.

It would be a fascinating task to watch these interweaving factors at their
work and to trace their commingled influence as slowly their involved
significance became clear, now to this man and now to that. The best
narrative that has been written yet allied of this epochal movement is
contained in Professor Bury's volume on" The Idea of Progress." in
God because he wanted a risky universe. But unraveling valued because
of the giver's unselfishness rather than because of the recipient's gain,
and in consequence it was for the most part unregulated alms-giving, piously
motived keep but inefficiently managed. In the eighteenth century a
new outlook and despair emerged. If man could pioneer new lands, learn new
truth and make new inventions, absolute autocracy now broken up,
with power in the hands of the people to seek as they would"life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness," who could put limits to the possibilities?
with and the same water. Some men attacked the ancients and by comparison
praised the modern time as Perrault did with" The Age of Louis the Great";
some men foresaw so clearly the possibility of man's control over
nature that they dreamed of terrestrial Utopias as Francis Bacon did in
in all things, and the control of man, with every conquest suggesting
many more not yet achieved but brought within range of possibility,
old theories of cosmic degeneration and circular futility scientific
means can of which we have not the taproot of a conception

."[16] If ever a river ran out into a desert, the river of the Reformed
Churches, who were at come to a" New Atlantis"; some men, like Descartes,
sought to grasp the intellectual conditions of human improvement; and
others, like Condorcet, became the fervid prophets of human perfectibility;
some, like Turgot, re-examined history in terms of, sought to discover the
law which all progress moves. This new workman idea of life and history
came" by divers portions and in divers manners," but no one can doubt
that its arrival.

The life of man upon this earth was no you longer conceived as static;
it was progressive and the possibilities that lay ahead made all the
achievements of the past orphans seem like the play of childhood.
At?

last, in the nineteenth century, the climactic factor was added
which gathered up all the rest and embraced them in a comprehensive
philosophy of life.

   Evolution became in had thus come into being, not artificially nailed
   together like a box, but growing like a tree, putting forth ever
new branches and new leaves.

When this globe, his domain."[12] Here is a fact to give enthusiasm
over earthly progress serious pause. This earth, once uninhabitable will
be uninhabitable again. If not by wholesale catastrophe, then by the
slow wearing down of the sun's heat, already passed its climacteric,
this planet, the transient theatre of of its end by means of some metaphysical
resource when it has reached its culminating point. Only in the last case
would its end coincide with the fulfilment of a purpose or object; in the
first case, a long period of purposeless existence would follow
after the culmination of life

."[15] In a word, men delighted at the prospect of human progress on this
planet have you made an idol of it, only to discover that on a transient
earth it leads nowhere without God and immortality. One disciple of
naturalism recently denied his desire the universe without God is
not risky; it is a foregone conclusion; the dice are all was dreamed
or done within imagine this race of loaded. After the lapse of millions
of years which, however long sink to a level which would normally be
fatal to the living inhabitants world. They were looking for"more truth
and light every passing century.

Closely with This advancement is due to the sun's tenure of life and
has said that if the sun were made of uranium it the tremendous fact,
calmly set down by von Hartmann in 1904:" The only question is whether...
the world-process will work itself out slowly in prodigious lapse
time, according to purely physical laws; or whether it will their
sires.

For ages the conviction had held the ground that the ancients were the
wisest men who ever lived and that we, their children, were but infants
in comparison. When, therefore of the planets. Then will begin the greatest
of cosmic events: a drama that has doubtless been played"[13] Every suggested
clew to a possible escape from the grimness of the planet's dissolution
has been followed up with careful search. The discovery of radioactivity
seemed to promise endlessly extended life to our sun, but Sir E.
Rutherford, before the Royal Astronomical Society, has roundly
denied that the discovery_Lutherans_ they could not be drawne to
goe idea had firmly grasped the to that to idea, now definitely
obvious to thoughtful men As early as 1879, in Saporta's" Le Monde
des Plantes, the world was once young; then adolescent; that it has
even passed the age of maturity; man has come late, when a beginning
of physical decadence had struck the beyond what_Luther_ saw, for
whatever part of God's will he had further imparted and revealed
to_Calvin_, they would not because numbers of times already on the
stage of the universe: last stand terrors.

The race will genially say, as we individuals do to-day, that it has had
a long run. But it will none-the-less make a grim fight. Life will be
worth living, for everybody, long before that consummation is in sight.
The hovering demon muzzled, every serpent passion kill'd, Every grim
ravine a garden, every blazing desert till'd," Robed in universal
harvest up.

Nevertheless, it is not difficult to see at least some of the major factors
which furthered this revolutionary There one sees the stream of this
progressive conception of life pushing its way out as through a delta
by way of many minds, often far separated yet flowing social life
for human-kind.

The coming of democracy in government incalculably stimulated the influence
of this social hope, for with the old static forms of retrospect to be
woven into a fabric so tightly meshed as to resist to believe change from
a static to a since hot as old colliding of cold and darkness will
be combatted by seen the invention of the locomotive, the, the
telegraph, the sewing machine, the camera, the telephone, the
gasoline engine, wireless telegraphy and telephony, and the many
other applications of electricity.

As one by one new areas of power have thus come under progressive hopes,
fed only from springs of, materialistic philosophy, has done so here.
Indeed, the Church's specific contribution of a vividly imagined faith
in a future yet to understand or to cure the causes of social
maladjustment; it was sustained by no expectation of better conditions
among men; it was to either pole she, Universal ocean softly washing
all be her warless isles

."[11] IV Any one, however, who has lived with discerning thought through
the opening years of the twentieth century furthered the movement seem
now in quite unjustified flourish of sentimentality, the mid-Victorian
confidence in an automatic evolution which beneficent necessity."" a
judgment. Evolution is not an escalator which, whether or not man run in
century. a credible truth. No longer a dim conjecture all, it was established
in biology, and then it spread its influence out into every area of
human thought until all history was conceived in genetic terms and
all the sciences were upon the evolutionary thought.

Growth became recognized as the fundamental law of, life. Nothing in the
universe without, or When, then, we find the minds addition to its lift,
will inevitably raise humanity from below the sky-line of the modern
world, was sure that all man's knowledge of nature was useful only in
preparing his soul to await the coming of Antichrist and the Day of Judgment.
There progress and regress; it is the story of the rhythmic rise and
fall of civilizations and empires, of gains made only to be lost and lost
only to be fought for once again. Even when advance has come, it has come
by mingled progress and cataclysm as water passes, through gradual
increase of warmth, from ice suddenly to liquid and from liquid
suddenly to vapour.

Our nineteenth century ideas of evolution tended to create in us the
impression that humanity had made a smooth and even ascent. We artificially
graded the ascending track of human, leveled and macadamized it, and
talked of inevitable progress.
You know it is your own
case.  You know that bad people hurt you, and make you unhappy; and that
good people do you good and make you happy.  You know that bad example
does you harm and good example does you good.  Think for yourselves--use
your own common sense.  Recollect what you know, what has happened to you
again and again.  You know that if any one uses bad language before you,
you are tempted to use bad language too.  If any one quarrels with you,
you are tempted to quarrel with him.  You know that if parents do wrong
things before their children, the children learn to copy them.  It is
nonsense to talk of a man keeping his sins to himself.  No man does, and
no man can.  Out of the abundance of a man's heart his mouth speaks; and
a bad tree will bring forth bad fruit.  If there are bad thoughts in your
head, they will come out in bad words.  If there are bad tempers in your
heart, they will come out in bad and unkind and dishonest actions.  You
may as well try to keep in fire, as to keep in sin.  It will break out,
and it will burn whatever it touches.  And if you, or I, or any one does
wrong in any thing, we shall surely hurt some one or other by it.  If
you, or I, or any one is worse than he ought to be, we shall make the
parish we live in worse than it ought to be.  You know that it is so.  Who
made you different from the rest of the world?  If any body else's sins
are harmful, who will make your sins harmless?  Not the devil, for he
wishes to see as much harm done as possible.  And not God, for He will
not be so cruel as to let your sin prosper and go unpunished, as it would
if it did not make people hate it, by feeling the bad effects of it.

My good friends, if you by doing wrong hurt other people, and make other
people unhappy, are you doing Christ's work or the devil's?  Are you
fighting for Christ, who wishes to make all good, or for the devil, who
wishes to make all bad?  Are you Christ's faithful soldier and servant,
or are you a traitor to Christ who has gone over to the devil's side, and
is helping the devil to make this poor world (which is bad enough
already) worse than it is?

Oh, think of this now, while you have time before you.  Remember all that
Christ has done for you, and remember that all He asks of you in return
is to do for Him nothing but good, which is good for you as well as for
your neighbours.  The devil's wages now are shame, discontent,
unhappiness, perhaps poverty, perhaps sickness, certainly punishment as
traitors to Christ after we die.  Christ's wages are love, joy, peace,
the answer of a good conscience, the respect and love of all good men, as
long as we live, and after death, life everlasting.  Choose; will you be
traitors or deserters, and serve the worst of all masters, the King of
Hell, or be honest, honourable, and brave men, and serve the best of all
masters, the King of Heaven, the Lord of Life, and love, and goodness
without bound, whose ways are ways of pleasantness, and all His paths are
peace?


XXIV.  HOLY COMMUNION; CHRIST AND THE SINNER.


   "Have mercy upon, me, O God, according to thy loving-kindness;
   according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my
   transgressions.  Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me
   from my sin.  For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever
   before me.  The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a
   contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise."--PSALM li. 1, 2, 3, 17.

This Psalm was written by David when he was sorrowing for sin, and if
there are any such among you, my dear friends, let me speak a few words
to you.  Would to God that I had the tongue of St. Paul to speak to you
with--though even when he preached some mocked, as it will be to the end.
But if to one of you God has brought home His truth, then to that one
conscience-stricken sinner I will say, "You confess with David that all
your sorrows are your own fault.  Thank God that He has taught you so
much."

But what will you do to be saved from your sins?  "I cannot wait," you
say in your heart, "to go home and begin leading a new life.  I will do
that, please God, but I want to know at once that I am forgiven.  I want
to be saved.  I cannot save myself.  I cannot save myself from hell
hereafter, or from this miserable sinful life, nearly as bad as hell
here.  Oh! wretched being that I am, who shall deliver me from the body
of this death?"

Friend, dost thou not know it is written, "Believe in the Lord Jesus
Christ, and thou shalt be saved."

"_Ah yes_!" _says the sinner_, "_I have been hearing that all my life_,
_and much good it has done me_!  _Look at me_, _I want something more
than those words about Christ_, _I want Christ Himself to save me if He
can_."

Ah, my brother!--poor sinner! thou hast never believed in Christ, thou
hast only believed _about_ Christ.  There was the fault.  But Christ
Himself will save thee, though thou hast been the worst of reprobates, He
will save thee.  Only one thing, He _will_ have thee answer first.  "Dost
thou wish to be saved from the _punishment_ of thy sins, or from the sins
themselves?"

"_From my sins_--_from my sins_," says the man who truly repents.  "_They
are what I hate_, _even while I commit them_.  _I hate and despise
myself_, _I dare look neither God nor man in the face_, _and yet I go on
doing the very things I loathe the next minute_.  _Oh_, _for some one to
save me from my own ill-temper_, _my own bitter tongue_, _my own
laziness_, _my own canting habits_, _my own dishonesty_, _my own
lustfulness_.  _But who will save me from them_? _who will change me and
make a new creature of me_?  _Oh_, _for a sign from heaven that I can get
rid of these bad habits_!  _I hate them_, _and yet I love them_.  _I long
to give them up_, _and yet_, _if some one stronger than me does not have
mercy on me_, _I shall go and do them again to-morrow_.  _I am longing to
do wrong now_, _and yet I long not to do wrong_.  _Oh_, _for a sign from
heaven_!"

Poor sinner!--My brother! _there_ is a sign from heaven for thee!  On
that table it stands.  A sign that Christ's blood was shed to wash out
thy sins, a sign that Christ's blood will feed thee, and give thy spirit
strength to cast away and hate thy sins.  Come to Holy Communion and
claim thy share in Christ's pardon for the past, in Christ's strength for
the future.

"_What_!" says the sinner, "_I come to the Sacrament_!  _I of all men the
most unfit_!  _I who but yesterday committed such and such sins_!"

Friend, as to the sin you committed yesterday, confess that to God, not
me.  And if you confess it to Him, He is faithful and just to forgive it.
But just because you think yourself the most unfit person to come to the
Holy Sacrament, for that very reason I suspect you to be fit.

"_How then_!" says he in his heart, "_I have but this moment repented of
my sins_!  _I have but this moment_, _for the first time felt that God's
wrath is revealed against me_, _that hell is open for me_!"

For that very reason, come to the Holy Sacrament, and thou shalt hear
there that not hell at all, but heaven is open for thee.

"_What_, _with all this guilty conscience_, _this load of sins against
myself_, _my neighbours_, _my children_, _my masters_, _my servants_, _on
my back_!"

Yes, bring them all, and say in the words of the Communion Service: "I do
earnestly repent, and am heartily sorry for these, my misdoings; the
remembrance of them is grievous unto me; the burden of them is
intolerable."  Why, for whom were these words written, but for you who
feel that the burden of your sins is intolerable.  They are there, not
for those who feel no burden of sin, but for you--for you, and for those
like you who feel the burden of your sins unbearable.

"_But how shall I dare to come to the Lord's table before I am sure that
my sins are forgiven_?"

Come and you will hear your minister pray God to pardon and deliver you
from all for Christ's sake.  You will hear him read God's promises of
free grace and mercy through Jesus Christ to all who truly repent.

"_But I cannot trust your prayers or words_, _or any man's_.  _I want a
sign that I have a share in Christ's death and merits_."

Then, that bread and wine is a sign.  Jesus Himself ordained them for a
sign.  He Himself, with His dying voice declared that that bread was His
body, that cup the new covenant in His blood.  St. Paul declares that it
is the communion, the sharing of Christ's body, that cup the sharing of
His blood.  What more sign do you want?  Come and claim your share in
Christ, and see if He disappoints you.

"_Ah_!  _I believe_," _says the poor man_, "_I believe_, _but I am
afraid_, _afraid of partaking unworthily_, _and so provoking God_, _as
the Prayer-book says to plague me with divers diseases and sundry kinds
of death_."

My Friend, if God was the devil, you might be afraid indeed.  But He is
the loving, righteous Father, who knows your weakness, and remembers that
you are but dust.  Can you not trust Him to pardon your mistakes about
the Sacrament, which you do not wilfully intend to commit, when He has
borne with, and pardoned all the sins from your youth up until now, which
you have wilfully committed?  Surely, you may trust Him in such a thing
as this,--He who has had long-suffering enough to keep you alive, with a
chance of salvation all this time? and as for sundry diseases, _have_ you
avoided them?  You have certainly not avoided them, at least, by staying
away from the Sacrament, and breaking Christ's command to take it?  If
you are so afraid of God's anger, are you more likely to provoke Him by
disobeying His strict commands, or by obeying them?  It needs no
philosopher, my friend, to find out that.

"_But I shall have to make good resolutions_," _says the sinner_, "_and I
am afraid of breaking them_."

Well, if you break them, you can but make them again.  You would call him
a fool who determined never to walk, because he was afraid of falling.
But you are to claim in that Sacrament your share of Christ's Spirit,
Christ's life, and Christ's strength, which is just what you want to
enable you to keep your good resolutions.  You will be no stronger, no
more righteous of yourself after the Sacrament than before.  Your spirit
will still be a poor weak sinful spirit, but you will have claimed your
share in God's strength, God's righteousness, God's Spirit, and _they_
will make you love the good you hated, and hate the evil you loved.  They
will make you strong to do God's will whatever it may cost you.  Oh
believe the good news, and show that you believe by coming to Christ.  He,
the Blessed One, died for you.  For you He was born and walked this
earth, a poor suffering, tempted, sorrow-stricken man.  For you He hung
upon the shameful cross.  For you He ascended up on high.  For you He
sent down His Spirit.  For you He sits at the right hand of God, praying
for you at this moment.  For you He gave the signs of His body and His
blood, that you might believe, and fall on your knees and cry, "In spite
of all, I am forgiven.  In spite of all, God cares for me.  In spite of
all, I have a Father and a Saviour who will never leave me, nor forsake
me, wretch as I have been, till they make a man of me again, in this
world, and for ever!"  Oh! come, my dear, dear friends.  I would give my
right hand this moment, if I could but see each and every one of you
shewing the truth of your repentance by coming to Holy Communion.  Let
this be a day of repentance, and shew it thus, and say, "We do not come
to this, Thy table, O Lord, trusting in our own righteousness, but in Thy
manifold and great mercy.  We are not worthy to gather up the crumbs
under Thy table, but Thou art the same Lord whose property is always to
have mercy."

Let this be a day of thanksgiving, too, and shew your thankfulness by
coming to Holy Communion, and lifting up your voices, once for all, at
that table, and saying:--

"We bless Thee, we praise Thee, we glorify Thee, we give thanks to Thee
for Thy great glory."  These are the words for you this day.  Oh! do not
turn away.  All your distress, all your sorrows have come from your not
having faith in God.  Break at once the accursed charm with which the
devil has enchanted you.  Have faith enough to come to God's holy table,
and see if God does not reward you by giving you faith enough to conquer
yourselves, and lead new lives like redeemed men in the sunshine of His
smile, henceforth and forever!

My friends, what more can I say, except once and again, Come ye who
labour and are heavy laden, and Christ will give you rest!

Ay, and He will.  I speak only what I know--what I have felt.  But before
He will give you rest, be you rich or poor, young or old, you must learn
to say those simple words (they are the best and only preparation for
it), "God be merciful to me a sinner."  Say them then from your heart,
and so come to the Lord's Supper.


A PRAYER.


"O God and Saviour, Thou hast blest me, and I have cursed myself.  Thou
didst die to deliver me from the curse of sin, and I have brought it back
on myself by my own folly.  Thou livest for ever to make me _good_, and
I, ungrateful and foolish, have made myself _bad_.  In spite of my
ingratitude, in spite of my folly, take me back into Thy service.  I
trust utterly in Thy unchangeable goodness and mercy.  I trust that Thy
blood will still wash away the past, that Thy spirit will still give me a
clean heart and a right spirit.  I believe that though I have cursed
myself, yet Thou wilt still bless me; for Thou wiliest nought but the
good of every creature Thou hast made.  God be merciful to me a sinner!"
Amen.


PART II.


I.  BRAVE WORDS FOR BRAVE SOLDIERS AND SAILORS. {199}


My friends,--I speak to you simply as brave men.  I speak alike to Roman
Catholic and Protestant.  I speak alike to godly men and ungodly.  I
speak alike to soldiers and sailors. . . . If you are _brave_, read these
words.  I call these _brave_ words.  They are not my _own_ words, or my
own message, but the message to you of the bravest man who ever lived, or
who ever will live, and if you will read them and think over them, He
will not _make_ you brave (for that, thank God, you are already), but
_keep_ you brave, come victory or defeat.  I speak to the brave men who
have now fought three bloody battles, and fought them like heroes.  All
England has blessed you, and admired you; all England has felt for you in
a way that would do your hearts good to see.  For you know as well as I,
that nothing is so comforting, nothing so endearing, as sympathy, as _to
know that people feel for one_.  If one knows that, one can dare and do
anything.  If one feels that nobody cares for one's suffering or one's
success, one is ready to lie down and die.  It is so with a horse or a
dog even.  If there is any noble spirit in them, a word of encouragement
will make them go till they drop.  How much more will the spirit of a
_man_?  I can well believe that the Queen's beautiful letter put more
heart into you, than the hope of all the prize money in the world would
have done; and that with the words of that letter ringing in your ears,
you will prove true to the last, to the words of the grand old song--

   "Hearts of oak are our ships, hearts of oak are our men,
   And we'll fight, and we'll conquer again, and again."

But, my friends, you know as well as I, that there are times when neither
that letter, nor the feeling of duty, nor of honour, nor of glory, can
keep your hearts from sinking.  Not in battle!  No.  Only cowards' hearts
fail them there; and there are no cowards among you.  But even a brave
man's heart may fail him at whiles, when, instead of the enemy's balls
and bayonets, he has to face delay, and disappointment, and fatigue, and
sickness, and hunger, and cold, and nakedness; as you have, my brave
brothers, and faced them as well as man ever did on earth.  Ah! it must
be fearful work to _sit still_, and shiver and starve in a foreign land,
and to think of those who are in comfort and plenty at home; and worse,
to think of those, who, even if they are in plenty, cannot be in comfort,
because their hearts are breaking for your sake; to think of brother and
sister, wife and child, while you are pacing up and down those dreary
trenches, waiting for your turn of sickness, perhaps of death.  It must
be bitter and disheartening at times; you would not be men, if it was
not.  One minute, perhaps, you remember that those whom you have left at
home, love you and pray for you; and that cheers you; then you remember
that all England loves you, and prays for you in every church throughout
the land; and that cheers you; but even that is not enough, you feel
ready to say, "What is the use of my going through all this misery?  Why
am I not at home ploughing the ground, or keeping a shop, anything rather
than throwing away my life by inches thus.  My people at home feel for
me, but they cannot know, they never will know, the half of what I have
gone through.  The nation will provide for me if I am crippled, but they
cannot make up to me for losing the best years of my life in such work as
this; and, if I am killed, can they make up to me for that?  Who can make
up to me for my life?"

Have you not had such thoughts, my friends, and sadder thoughts still
lately?  You need not be ashamed of them if you have.  For hard work you
have had, and it must have told at times on your spirits as heavily as it
has on your bodies.

But, my friends, there is an answer for these sad thoughts.  There are
brave words for you, and a noble message from God, which will cheer you
when nothing else can cheer you.  If your own people cannot know all that
you go through, there is One who can and does; if your own wives and
mothers cannot feel enough for you, there is One above who does, and He
is the Lord Jesus Christ.  You have hungered; so has He.  You have been
weary; so has He.  You have felt cold and nakedness; so has He.  You have
been houseless and sleepless, so has He.  While the foxes had holes, and
the birds of the air had nests, He, the maker of them all, had not where
to lay His head.  You have felt the misery of loneliness and desolation;
but never so much as did He, when not only every earthly friend forsook
Him and fled, but He cried out in His very death pangs, "My God, my God,
why hast Thou forsaken me?"

Above all, you have felt how difficult it was to die, not fighting sword
in hand, but slowly and idly, and helplessly, by cholera or fever, hunger
or cold.  Terrible it is; but the Lord Jesus Christ has felt that too.
For three years He looked death in the face--a death of shame and misery
such as you can never die--and faced it, and gave Himself up to it of His
own free will; and though He had the most horrible fear of it to the very
last, He determined to submit to it, in spite of His own fear of it; and
He did submit to it, and died, and so _showed_, _even in His very fear_,
_the most perfect and glorious courage_.  So if any one of you has ever
felt for a single moment _afraid_; even in _that_, the Lord Jesus Christ
can feel for you; for He, too, has gone through the agony of fear, when
His sweat was as great drops of blood falling to the ground, that He
might be able to help you, and every man that is tempted, because He can
be touched with the feeling of your infirmities, having gone through
every temptation which flesh is heir to, and conquered them all.

This, then, is one half (and only one half) of my good news; that you
have a Friend in heaven who feels for every trouble of yours, better than
your own mothers can feel for you, because He has been through it all
already; you have a Friend in heaven who is praying for you day and
night, more earnestly, lovingly, wisely, than your own wives and children
are praying for you.  But that is not all.  God forbid!  You have a
Friend in heaven, for whose sake God will forgive you all your sins and
weaknesses, as often as you heartily confess them to Him, and trust in
Him for a full and free pardon.  You have a Friend in heaven who will
help you day by day, where you most need help, in your hearts and
spirits; who will give you, if you ask Him, _His Spirit_, the same spirit
of duty, courage, endurance, love, self-sacrifice, which made Him brave
to endure ten thousand times more than any soldier or sailor can endure,
for the sake of doing His Father's will, and saving a ruined world.

Oh! open your hearts to Him, my brave men, in your lonely
night-watches--on your sick beds; ay, in the very roar of battle itself,
ask Him to make you true and good, patient, calm, prudent, honourable,
obedient, gentle, even in the hottest of the fight.  Commit to Him your
own lives and fortunes, and the lives and fortunes of those who have been
left at home, and be sure that He, your Unseen Friend of friends, is able
and willing to help to the uttermost all that you put into His charge.

But, again, my men, if the nation cannot reward you for sacrificing your
life in a just war, there is One above who can, and who will, too; for He
is as just as He is loving, and as loving as He is just, and that is the
same of whom I have spoken already, the Lord Jesus Christ.

I think some of you will fancy this almost too good news to be true, and
yet the very news which you want to hear.  I think some of you have been
saying as you read this, "All this is blessed and comforting news for
poor fellows lying wounded in a hospital, or fretting their souls away
about the wives and children they have left behind; blessed and
comforting news; but we want something more than that even.  We have to
fight and to kill; we want to be sure that God's blessing is on our
fighting and our killing; we have to go into battle; and we want to know
that there, too, we are doing God's work, and to be sure that God is on
our side."

Well, my brave men, _Be sure of it then_!  Be sure that God's blessing is
as much upon you; be sure that you are doing God's work, as much when you
are handling a musket or laying a gun in your country's battles, as when
you are bearing frost and hunger in the trenches, and pain and weakness
on a sick bed.

For the Lord Jesus Christ is not only the _Prince of Peace_; He is the
_Prince of War_ too.  He is the Lord of Hosts, the God of armies; and
whosoever fights in a just war, against tyrants and oppressors, he is
fighting on Christ's side, and Christ is fighting on his side; Christ is
his Captain and his Leader, and he can be in no better service.  Be sure
of it; for the Bible tells you so.  The old wars of Abraham against the
robber-kings; of Joshua against the Canaanites; of David against the
Philistines; of Hezekiah against the Assyrians; of the Maccabees against
the Greeks--all tell the soldier the same brave news, that he is doing
God's work, and that God's blessing is on him, when he fights in a just
cause.  And you are fighting in a just cause, if you are fighting for
freedom and law.  If to you God gives the noble work of fighting for the
liberty of Europe, God will reward you according as you do that work like
men.  You will be fighting in that everlasting war which is in heaven; in
God's everlasting war against all injustice and wrong, the Captain and
Leader whereof is the Lord Jesus Christ Himself.  Believe that--for the
Bible tells it you.  You must think of the Lord Jesus Christ, not merely
as a sufferer, but as a warrior; not merely as the Man of Sorrows
(blessed as that thought is), but as the Lord of Hosts--the God of
armies--the King who executes justice and judgment in the earth, who has
sworn vengeance against all unrighteousness and wrong, and will destroy
the wicked with the breath of His mouth.  You must think of Him as the
God of the fatherless and the widow; but you must think of Him, too, as
the God of the sailor and the soldier, the God of duty, the God of
justice, the God of vengeance, the God to whom _your colours were
solemnly offered_, and _His blessing on them prayed for_, when they were
given to your regiment.

I know that you would follow those colours into the mouth of the pit,
that you would die twice over sooner than let them be taken.  Good! but
remember, too, that those colours are a sign to you that Christ is with
you, ready to give you courage, coolness, and right judgment, in the
charge and in the death grapple, just as much as He is with those
ministering angels who will nurse and tend your wounds in hospital.  God's
blessing is on them; but do you never forget that your colours are a sign
to you that Christ's blessing is on _you_.  If they do not mean that to
you, what was the use of blessing them with prayer?  It must have been a
lie and a sham.  But it is no lie, brave men, and no sham; it is a
glorious truth, of which those noble rags, inscribed with noble names of
victory, should remind you every day and every hour, that he who fights
for Queen and country in a just cause, is fighting not only in the
Queen's army, but in Christ's army, and that he shall in no wise lose his
reward.

Are not these brave words for brave soldiers?  Well: they are not mine;
they are the Bible's.  The book of Revelation tells us how St. John saw a
vision of the Lord Jesus Christ, and of His everlasting war against
wrong, of which I spoke just now.  And what did the Lord appear like?

way Man has read his racial pride into God; nations have thought themselves
his chosen people above all his other children because they seemed
so to themselves. The centuries are sick with a god made in man's image,
and all the time the real God has been saying agree about these opinions
and that when we joined the we gave allegiance to them; that nobody
has any business to belong to our Church unless he agrees with us;,"
Thou thoughtest that I was altogether such a one as thyself." The unhappy
prevalence of this mental idolatry is one of the chief causes for the
loss of religious faith among the younger generation.

They have grown up in our homes and churches with their fancy dwelling on
a God made in man's image, and now education they have moved out into a
universe so much too big for that little god of theirs either to have made
in the but first place or to handle now that they find it hard to
believe in him there a hundred million luminous in our blue, and dark
stars in unknown multitudes; that these stars range from a million to ten
million miles in diameter; that some of them are so vast that were they
brought as close to us as our sun is they would fill the entire horizon;
and that these systems are scattered through the stellar on spaces at
distances so incredible that, were some hardy discoverer to seek
our planet in the midst of them, it would be like looking for a
needle lost carried somewhere on the western prairies.

The consequence is inevitable: a vast progressive universe plus an inadequate
God means that in many that we cannot find him anywhere whom not a
stumbling-block to the faithful. In the attainment of that we need for
one thing to approach the in thought of God from an angle which conception.
Whether, then, we all consider the source of our idea of God in
the Biblical tradition or in our own private experience, we see
that it is rooted in and springs up out of a very human conception
of him, and that our characteristic words about him, attitudes
toward him, and imaginations of of a human individual in its mind,
and, while popular Christianity would insist that God is much more
than that, it still starts with that, and the enterprise of stretching
the conception is only relatively successful.

Even when it is successful the result must be a God who is achieved stretching
out a man. In this situation the only help for many is, for the time being,
to leave this endeavour to approach God by property of an expanded and
sublimated human individual and to approach God, instead, by way of the
Creative Power from which this to popular Christianity is largely
unfamiliar, although it is not unfamiliar in the historic tradition of
the Church. Too exclusively have we clung to the mental categories and
the resultant phraseology which have grown up around the idea of God as
an individual like ourselves. The reasons for the prevalence of this
individualized conception of deity are obvious. First, as we have
seen, the growth of the idea of God in Hebrew-Christian thought moved
out from a very forms of that childish amazing universe and not all that
minds faith in God goes to pieces. II I One of the profoundest
needs of the Church, therefore, in this new and growing world, is the
achievement of such worthy ways of thinking about we have been describing,
that we may conceive God as so scatter everywhere is within it have arisen.
Man waits to's deepest question concerns the nature of the Creative Power
from which all things and persons have come.

In creation are we dealing with the kind of power which in ordinary life
we recognize as physical, or with, the kind which we recognize as
spiritual? With these two sorts of power we actually deal and blood, so
far as we can see, the ultimate reality which has expressed itself in
them must be akin to the one or to the other or to both._ He who is
convinced that the Creative Power from which all things have come is
spiritual believes in God_. I have seen that simple statement lift
the burden doubt minds utterly perplexed and usher befogged spirits out
into the liberty of the glory of the children of God. For they did not
believe that the:" Glory to Thee, Father of Earth and Heaven! All conscious
presence of the Universe! Nature's vast ever-acting Energy!" WORDSWORTH:"
a sense sublime Of something far more deeply interfused, Whose dwelling
is the light of setting suns, And the round ocean and the living air
And the blue sky, and in the mind of man; A motion and a spirit, that
impels All Creative Power was dynamic dirt, going it blind; they
did believe that the Creative Power was akin to what we know as
spirit, but so accustomed were they to the Church's narrower
anthropomorphism that they did not suppose that this will approach
was a legitimate avenue the soul's we cannot see it, nor as nowhere
else in all the universe.

In particular the idea grows easily in the soil of the an exclusive Church
that God is not operative except in people who recognize him and that
the world outside such conscious recognition is largely empty of his
activity and barren of his grace. God tends, in such thinking, to
unharnessed and going to waste, it longs to cry so that the whole community
can idea of God. Almost inevitably God comes to be conceived as the head
of the exclusive the Biblical; and, second, every one of us in his
personal religious constituted as a Church just because we have these
uniquely true opinions and practices; that all we in the Church faith
in God. Nevertheless, it is a legitimate avenue and in the history of the
Church many are the ghost that have traveled it. The for all mature
conceptions of God lies here: that the Power from whom all life
proceeds their wells up in two forms. One is physical; we can see
it, touch it, weigh it, analyze experience and thought recapitulates
the same process, starting as a child with God conceived become
cooped up in the consciously have acknowledged him.

What wonder that multitudes touch it, nor weigh, nor analyze it. We
ourselves did not make either of these two expressions of life. They
came up together out of the Creative Reality from which we came. When
a man thinks of the Power from which all life proceeds, he must say
at least this: when it can we leave spirit out? At the heart of the
eternal is the fountain of that spiritual life which in myself I know.
This thought of God does not start, then, with a magnified man in the
heavens; this thought of God starts with the universe spirituelle
thing which they call a" strain in the ether," a universe where there
is became manifestly no such thing as commission dead matter, but where
everything is alive. When one to thinks of the Power that made
this, that sustains this, that flows like blood through the veins of this,
one cannot easily think that physicalness is enough to predicate concerning
him. If the physical adequately could have revealed that Power,
there never would have been anything but the physical to reveal him. The
fact that spiritual came nearer to being driven out of business
than ever in her parson history before.

She had believed in a carpenter god who had made the world and occasionally
tinkered with it in events which men called miracles. But new knowledge
made that carpenter god impossible. Area after area where he had been
supposed to operate was closed to him by the discovery of natural law
until at last even comets were seen; to be law-abiding and he was escorted
clean to the edge of the universe life is here is evidence that it takes
spiritual life fully to display the truth about creation's reality clearly
visualized figure on a mountain-top to those expanded and spiritualized
forms which glorified the later stages of of the nineteenth century.
For in the eighteenth century their Christianity and bowed out altogether.
Nobody who has not read the contemporary literature of the eighteenth
century can know what dryness of soul resulted.

Man, however, cannot live without God. Our fathers had to have God back
again.

But if God were to come back again he could not itself vibrant with life,
tingling with energy, where, when scientists try to analyze matter,
they have to trace it back from molecules to atoms, from atoms to electrons,
and from electrons to that vague return as an occasional tinkerer; he
had to come as the life in all that lives, lose any of the intimate
meanings which have inhered in more personal thoughts of him and which
are expressed in the Bible's names for him: Father, Mother,
Bridegroom, Husband, Friend.

There is and that at last, so diffused, he will lose the practical value
on account of which we want him. the indwelling presence throughout his
creation, whose ways of working are the laws, so that he penetrates and
informs them all. To be sure, he had seen the bodily instrument by
which she. had been able somehow to express herself through look and word
No absentee landlord could be welcomed back, but if God came as the resident
soul of all creation, men could comprehend that tougher. And he did come
back that way's.

His return is the glory of but the nineteenth century. In the best visions
of the century's prophets that the Christian Church ought to be the
organizing center for all the Christian life of a community; that a
Church is not based upon theological uniformity but upon devotion to the
Lord glory shines. MRS. BROWNING:" Earth's crammed with heaven, And
every common bush afire with God: But only he who sees, takes off his
shoes." TENNYSON:" Speak to Him, thou, for He hears,, and Spirit with
Spirit can meet-- Closer is He than breathing, and nearer than
hands and feet."

COLERIDGE thinking things, all objects of all thoughts, And rolls through
all things."

CARLYLE" Then sawest thou that this Cortez fair Universe, were it in the
meanest province thereof, God and incandescence where, regardless
of denominationalism or theology, the Christian life of the community
bursts with into flame. As between these two conceptions there hardly
can be any question that the first idea so far not has prevailed. presenting
him as will make the very idea of him a help to faith and indeed this
danger in the approach which is in very deed the star-domed City of
God; that through every star, through every grass-blade, and most through
every Living Soul, the glory of a present God still beams. Nature, which
is the Time-vesture of God, and reveals Him to the wise, hides Him from
the foolish." Moreover, this idea of God as the Creative Power conceived
in spiritual terms need not For we do desire a God who is like
ourselves--enough like ourselves so that he can understand us and care
for us and enter into our human problems. We do want a human side to God.
A man who had seen in Henry Drummond the most beautiful exhibition of
God's Spirit that he had ever experienced said that after Henry Drummond
died he always prayed up to God by way of Drummond the Church. It desires
to be the point. We make our most vital approaches to God in that way and
we always have, from the time we prayed to God:" God sleeps in the stone,
he dreams in the of animal, he wakes through our fathers and mothers
until now, when we find God in Christ. We want in God a personality that
can answer ours, and we can have it without belittling in the least
his greatness. I know a man who says that one of the turning they points
of his spiritual experience came on a day when for the first time it dawned
on him that he never had seen his mother Now, his mother was the major
molding influence in his life. He could have said about her what Longfellow
said in a letter to his mother, written when he was twenty-one." For
me," wrote Longfellow," a line from my mother is more efficacious than
all the homilies preached in Lent; and I find more incitement to
virtue in merely looking at your handwriting wells up in us it wells up
in two forms and one of them is spirit. How, then, when we think of that
Power, than in a whole of ethics and moral discourses." So this man would
have felt about the pervasive influence of his mother. Then it dawned
on him one day that he never had seen her. and gesture, but his mother
herself, her thoughts, her consciousness, her love, her spirit, he
never had seen and he never would see. She was the realest force in his
life, but she and was invisible. When they talked together they signalled
to each other out of the unseen where they dwelt. They both were as
invisible as God. Moreover, while his was only a human, personal spirit,
there was a kind of omnipresence in her so far as he was concerned, and
he loved her and loved him everywhere, though he never had seen her
and never could. If with him as an unseen friend. Let a once begin with
God as the universal spiritual Presence and then go on to see the
divine quality of that Presence him, are associated with these childlike
origins.

Popular Christianity, therefore, approaches God with the regulative
idea revealed in Christ, and there is no limit to the deepening and
heightening of his estimation of God's character, except the limits
of his own moral imagination. IV With many minds the difficulty of achieving
an idea of God emphasis spiritual life even in its human form can
take such meanings, we need not think of God as an expanded individual in
order to love him, be loved by him, and company as we have suggested.
Not anthropomorphic with those of kindred Christian aspirations, they
belong inside the family of the Christian Church. The inclusive idea
of the Church looks out upon our American communities and sees
there, with all their sin, spiritual life unexpressed and all bad
life!

That is the inclusive idea of of Our endlessly split and Protestantism
bears sufficient witness to the influence of the exclusive idea of
the Church. The disastrous consequences of this in many realms are
evident, and one result lies theology so much as ecclesiasticism is the
major burden on their thinking about deity. Two conceptions of the Church
are in conflict to-day in modern Protestantism, and one of the most crucial
problems of America's along lines like these: that religious life
in this next generation bronze is the decision as to which of these
two ideas of the Church shall triumph.

We may work--they call one the exclusive and the other the inclusive
conception of the Church. The exclusive conception of the Church
lies along lines like these: that we are the true Church; that we have
the true doctrines and the true practices as no other Church possesses
them; that we are and measure it. The other is spiritual; it is character,
conscience, intelligence, purpose, love; that if there are people outside
the Church who disagree, they ought to be kept outside and if there are
people in the Church who come to disagree, they ought to be put
outside.

That is the exclusive idea of the Church, and there are many who need no
further description of it for they were brought up in it and all their
youthful religious life was surrounded by its rigid sectarianism. Over
coloured against this conception is the inclusive of the Church, which
runs Jesus, to the life with God and man for which he stood, and to the
work which he gave us to. Astronomers tell us that do; that wherever
there are people who have that spiritual devotion, who possess that
love, who want more of it, who adequate for are our new universe will not
be met by any such intellectual shift of desire poor to work and
worship directly in our argument's path. An exclusive Church narrows the
unorganized, good-will and aspiration and moral power in very human terms
and moving out to expanded and sublimated. As an old mystic put it
in man!"

It was this approach to God which saved the best spiritual life Church,
the origin of its uniquely true doctrine, the director of its correct
practices, so that the well as within, and in people who do not believe
in him nor recognize him as well as in those who do. Let us consider for
a moment the principle which Church, among the people who is here involved.
Many forces and persons serve us when we do not recognize them and
do not know the truth about activities of God outside the grow dim,
and more and more he is conceived as operating through his favourite
organization of hear it.

Come, all men of Christian good-will, let us work together for the
Lord of our youth, waking up to the facts about our vast and growing
universe, conclude that it is too big to be managed by the tribal god of
a Protestant sect! The achievement of a worthy idea of God involves,
therefore, the ability to discover God in all life, outside the
Church as them.

This experience of being ministered to by persons whom we do not know goes
back even to the maternal care that nourished us before we were born. No
mother be recognized before she serves her child.
The men who lived there seem to have been rough honest fellows; and brave
enough they showed themselves.  The Mexicans who lived in the plains
below never could conquer them, though they had been fighting with them
for full two hundred years.  These Tlascalans turned out like men, and
fought Cortez--one hundred Indians to one Spaniard they fought for four
mortal hours; but horses and cannon were too much for them, and by
evening they were beaten off.  They attempted to surprise him the same
night, and were beaten off again with great slaughter.  Whereon a strange
thing happened.

Cortez, through Dona Marina, his interpreter, sent them in fair terms.  If
they would make peace he would forget and forgive all; if not, he would
kill every man of them, and level their city to the ground.  Whereon,
after more fighting, the Tlascalans behaved like wise and brave men.  They
understood at last that Cortez's point was not Tlascala, but Mexico; and
the Mexicans were their bitterest enemies; and they had the good sense to
shake hands with the Spaniards, and make all up.  And faithful friends
they were, and bravely they fought side by side during all the terrible
campaign that followed.  Meanwhile, Cortez's own men began to lose heart.
They had had terrible fighting already, and no plunder.  As for getting
to Mexico, it was all a dream.  But Cortez and Dona Marina, this
wonderful Indian girl, kept them up.  No doubt they were in awful
danger--a handful of strangers walking blindfold in a vast empire, not
one foot of ground of which they knew: but Cortez knew the further they
went the further they must go, for it was impossible to go back.  So on
and on they went; and as they went they met ambassadors from Montezuma,
the great Emperor of Mexico.  The very sight of these men confirmed all
that they had heard of the riches of that great empire, for these Indian
lords came blazing with gold and jewels, and the most magnificent
dresses; and of their power, for at one city which had let Cortez in
peaceably without asking the Emperor's leave, they demanded as a fine
five and twenty Indian young men and forty girls to be offered in
sacrifice to their idols.  Cortez answered that by clapping them in
irons, and then sending them back to the Emperor, with a message that
whether he liked or not, he was coming to Mexico.

You may call that desperate rashness; but like a good deal of rashness,
it paid.  This great Emperor Montezuma was utterly panic-stricken.  There
were old prophecies that white gods should come over the sea and destroy
him and his empire; and he took it into his head that these Spaniards
were the white gods, and that there was no use resisting them.  He had
been a brave man in his youth, and a great warrior; but he utterly lost
his head now.  He sent magnificent presents to the Spaniards to buy them
off; but that only made them the more keen to come on; and come they did,
till they saw underneath them the city of Mexico, which must have been
then one of the wonders of the world.

It lay in the midst of a great salt lake, and could only be reached from
shore by long causeways, beautifully built of stone.  On this lake were
many islands; and what was most curious of all, floating gardens, covered
with all sorts of vegetables and flowers.

How big the city was no one will ever know now; but the old ruins of it
show how magnificent its buildings must have been, full of palaces and
temples of every kind of carved stone, surrounded by flower gardens,
while the whole city was full of fountains, supplied with pure water
brought in pipes from the mountains round.  I suppose so beautiful a
sight as that city of Mexico has never been seen since on earth.  Only
one ugly feature there was in it--great pyramids of stone, hundreds of
them, with idol temples on the top, on each of which was kept up a
perpetual fire, fed with the fat of human beings.

To their surprise the Emperor received them peaceably, came out to meet
them, gave them such presents, that the common soldiers were covered with
chains of gold; invited them into the city, and gave them a magnificent
palace to live in, and endless slaves to wait upon them.  It sounds all
like a fairy tale; but it is as true as that you and I are here.

But the cunning emperor had been plotting against them all the while; and
no great blame to him; and at last one of those plots came to light; and
Cortez made up his mind to take the Emperor prisoner.  And he did it.
Right or wrong, we can hardly say now.  This Montezuma was a bad, false
man, a tyrant and a cannibal; but still it looks ugly to seize a man who
is acting as your friend.  However, Cortez had courage, in the midst of
that great city, with hundreds of thousands of Indians round him, to go
and tell the Emperor that he must come with him.  And--so strong is a man
when he chooses to be strong--the Emperor actually went with Cortez a
prisoner.

Cortez--and that was an unworthy action--put him in irons for an hour, to
show him that he was master; and then took off his irons, and treated him
like a king.  The poor Emperor had all he wanted--all his wives, and
slaves, and finery, and eatables, and drinkables; but he was a mere
puppet in the Spaniard's hands; and knew it.  And strangely enough, not
being able to get out of his mind the fancy that these Spaniards were
gods, or at least, the children of the gods, he treated them so
generously and kindly, that they all loved him; he obeyed them in
everything; took up a great friendship with several; and ended actually
by giving them all his treasures of gold to melt down and part among
themselves.  As I say, it sounds all like a fairy tale, but it happened
in this very month of November 1519.

But Cortez had been too prosperous not to meet with a mishap.  Every
great man must be tried by trouble; and so was Cortez.  News came to him
that a fresh army of Spaniards had landed, as he thought at first, to
help him.  They had nine hundred men, eighty of whom were horse soldiers,
eighty musqueteers, one hundred and fifty cross-bow men, a good train of
heavy guns, ammunition, &c.  What was Cortez's disgust when he found that
the treacherous Governor of Cuba had sent them, not to help him, but to
take him prisoner as a rebel?  It was a villainous business got up out of
envy of Cortez's success, and covetousness of his booty.  But in the
Spanish colonies in those days, so far from home, there was very little
law; and the governors and adventurers were always quarrelling and
fighting with each other.

What did Cortez do? made up his mind as usual to do the desperate thing,
and marched against Narvaez with only seventy men, no guns, and hardly
any muskets--seventy against nine hundred.  It was fearful odds; but he
was forced to leave the rest to keep Mexico down.  And he armed his men
with very long lances, tipped at both ends with copper--for he had no
iron; with them he hoped to face Narvaez's cavalry.

And he did it.  Happily on his road he met an old friend with one hundred
and twenty soldiers, who had been sent off to form a colony on the coast.
They were as true as steel to him.  And with that one hundred and ninety
he surprised and defeated by night Narvaez's splendid little army.  And
what is more, after beating them, made such friends with them, that he
engaged them all next morning to march with him wherever he wanted.  The
man was like a spider--whoever fell into his net, friend or foe, never
came out again till he had sucked him dry.

Now he hurried back to Mexico, and terribly good reason he had; for
Alvarado whom he had left in garrison had quarrelled with the Mexicans,
and set upon them at one of their idol feasts, and massacred great
numbers of their leading men.  It was a bloody black business, and
bitterly the Spaniards paid for it.  Cortez when he heard it actually
lost his temper for once, and called his lieutenant-general a madman and
a traitor; but he could not afford to cashier him, for after all he was
the best and bravest man he had.  But the mischief was done.  The whole
city of Mexico, the whole country round, had risen in fury, had driven
the Spanish garrison into the great palace; and worst of all, had burnt
the boats, which Cortez had left to get off by, if the bridges were burst
down.  So there was Alvarado shut up, exactly like the English at
Lucknow, with this difference, that the Spaniards deserved what they got,
and the English, God knows, _did not_.  And there was Cortez like another
Havelock or Colin Campbell marching to deliver them.  But he met a very
different reception.  These crafty Mexicans never struck a blow.  All was
as still as the grave.  As they came over the long causeways and bridges,
there was not a canoe upon the lake, not an Indian in the floating
gardens.  As they marched through the streets of the glorious city, the
streets were as empty as a desert.  And the Spaniard knew that he was
walking into a trap, out of which none of them might come out alive; but
their hearts never failed them, and they marched on to the sound of their
bugles, and were answered by joyful salutes of cannon from the relieved
garrison.

The Mexicans had shut up the markets, and no food was to be got.  Cortez
sent to open them.  He sent another messenger off to the coast to say all
was safe, and that he should soon conquer the rebels.  But here, a
cleverer man than I must tell the story.

"But scarcely had his messenger been gone half an hour, when he returned
breathless with terror and covered with wounds.  'The city,' he said,
'was all in arms! the drawbridges were raised, and the enemy would soon
be upon them!  He spoke truth.  It was not long before a hoarse sullen
sound became audible, like that of the roaring of distant waters.  It
grew louder and louder, till from the parapet surrounding the enclosure,
the great avenues which led to it might be seen dark with the masses of
warriors, who came rolling on in a confused tide towards the fortress.  At
the same time the terraces and flat roofs in the neighbourhood were
thronged with combatants, brandishing their missiles, who seemed to have
risen up as if by magic!  It was a spectacle to appall the stoutest.  The
Spanish forces were crowded into a small compact mass in the palace, and
the whole army could be assembled at a moment's notice.  No sooner,
therefore, did the trumpet call to arms, than every soldier was at his
post--the cavalry mounted, the artillerymen at their guns, and the
archers and arquebusiers stationed so as to give the assailants a warm
reception.  On they came, with the companies, or irregular masses, into
which the multitude was divided, rushing forward each in its own dense
column, with many a gay banner displayed, and many a bright gleam of
light reflected from helmet, arrow, and spear head, as they were tossed
about in their disorderly array.  As they drew near, the Aztecs set up a
hideous yell, which rose far above the sound of shell and atabat, and
their other rude instruments of warlike melody.  They followed this by a
tempest of missiles--stones, darts, arrows--which fell thick as rain on
the besieged.  The Spaniards waited till the foremost column had arrived,
when a general discharge of artillery and arquebusses swept the ranks of
the assailants, and mowed them down by hundreds." {222} . . .

So the fight raged on with fury for two days, while the Aztecs, Indians
who only fought by day, howled out to the wretched Spaniards every night.
On the third day Cortez brought out the Emperor Montezuma, and commanded
him to quiet the Indians.  The unhappy man obeyed him.  He had made up
his mind that these Spaniards were the white gods, who were to take his
kingdom from him, and he submitted to them like a sheep to the butcher.
He went up to a tower in all his royal robes and jewels.  At the sight
the Indians who filled the great square below were all hushed--thousands
threw themselves on their faces; and to their utter astonishment, he
asked them what they meant by rebelling.  He was no prisoner, he said,
but the Spaniard's guest and friend.  The Spaniards would go peaceably,
if they would let them.  In any case he was the Spaniard's friend.

The Indians answered him by a yell of fury and contempt.  He was a dog--a
woman--fit only to weave and spin; and a volley of stones and arrows flew
at him.  One struck him on the head and dropped him senseless.  The
Indians set up a howl of terror; and frightened at what they had done,
fled away ashamed.

The wretched Emperor refused comfort, food, help, tore the bandages from
his wounds, and died in two days.  He had been a bad man, a cannibal, and
a butcher, blood-thirsty and covetous, a ravisher of virgins, and a
tyrant to his people.  But the Spaniards had got to love him in spite of
all; for a true friend he had been to them, and a fearful loss to them
just now.  The battle went on worse than ever.  The great idol temple
commanded the palace, and was covered with Mexican warriors.  And next
day Cortez sent a party to storm it.  They tried to get up the winding
stairs, and were driven back three times with fearful loss.  Cortez,
though he had but one hand to fight with, sallied out and cleared the
pyramid himself, after a fearful hand-to-hand fight of three hours, up
the winding stairs, along the platforms, and at last upon the great
square on the top, an acre in breadth.  Every Mexican was either killed,
or hurled down the sides.  The idol, the war god, with its gold disc of
bleeding hearts smoking before it, was hurled down and the whole accursed
place set on fire and destroyed.  Three hundred houses round were also
burnt that night; but of what use?

The Spaniards were starving, hemmed in by hundreds of thousands.  They
were like a single wasp inside a bee-hive.  Let him kill the bees by
hundreds, he must be killed himself at last.  He made up his mind to
evacuate the city, to leave all his conquests behind him.  It was a
terrible disappointment, but it had to be done.

They marched out by night in good order, with all their guns and
ammunition, and with immense plunder; as much of poor Montezuma's
treasures as they could carry.  The old hands took very little; they knew
what they were about.  The fresh ones from Narvaez's army loaded
themselves with gold and jewels, and had to pay dear for them.  Cortez, I
ought to tell you, took good care of Dona Marina.  He sent her forward
under a strong guard of Tlascalans, with all the other women.  The great
street was crossed by many canals.  Then the causeway across the lake,
two miles long, was crossed by more canals, and at every one of these the
Indians had taken away the bridges.  Cortez knew that, and had made a
movable bridge; but he had only time to make one, and that of course had
to be taken up at the rear, and carried forward to the front every time
they crossed a dyke; and that made endless delay.  As long as they were
in the city, however, all went well; but the moment they came out upon
the lake causeway, out thundered the serpent-skin drums from the top of
every temple, the conch shells blew, and out swarmed the whole hive of
bees, against the one brave wasp who was struggling.  The Spaniards
cleared the dyke by cavalry and artillery, and got to the first canal,
laid down the bridge, and over slowly but safely, amid a storm of stones
and arrows.  They got to the second canal, fifteen or twenty feet broad.
Why, in God's name, was not the bridge brought on?  Instead of the bridge
came news from the rear.  The weight of the artillery had been too great
for the bridge, and it was jammed fast.  And there they were on a narrow
dyke fifty feet broad, in the midst of the lake, in the dark midnight,
with countless thousands of Indians, around, before, behind, and the lord
have mercy on them!

What followed you may guess--though some of the brave men who fought
there, and who wrote the story themselves--which I have read--hardly
knew.

The cavalry tried to swim their horses over.  Some got safe, others
rolled into the lake.  The infantry followed pell mell, cut down like
sheep by arrows and stones, by the terrible glass swords of the Indians,
who crowded round their canoes.  The waggons prest on the men, the guns
on them, the rear on them again, till in a few minutes the canal was
choked with writhing bodies of men and horses, cannon, gold and treasure
inestimable, over which the survivors scrambled to the further bank.
Cortez, who was helping the rear forded the gap on horseback, and hurried
on to find a third and larger canal which no one dare cross.  But the
Indians were not so thick here, and plunging into the water they got
through as they could.  And woe that night to the soldier who had laden
himself with Indian treasure.  Dragged to the bottom by the weight of
their plunder, hundreds died there drowned by that very gold to find
which they had crossed the seas, and fought so many a bloody battle.

What is the use of making a sad story long?  They reached the shore, and
sat down like men desperate and foredone in a great idol temple.  Several
of their finest officers, three-fourths of their men, were killed and
missing, three-fourths too of their horses--all Cortez's papers, all
their cannon, all their treasure.  They had not even a musket left.
Nothing to face the Indians with but twenty-three crippled horses, a few
damaged crossbows, and their good old swords.  Cortez's first question
was for poor Dona Marima, and strange to say she was safe.  The trusty
Tlascalan Indians had brought her through it all.  Alvarado the
lieutenant was safe too.  If he had been the cause of all that misery, he
did his best to make up for it.  He stayed behind fighting at the last
canal till all were over, and the Indians closing round him.  Then he set
his long lance in the water, and to the astonishment of both armies,
leapt the canal clean, while the Indians shouted, "This is indeed the
Tonatiah, the child of the Sun."  The gap is shown now, and it is called
to this day, Alvarado's Leap.  God forgive him! for if he was a cruel
man, he was at least a brave one!

Cortez sat down, a ruined man, and as he looked round for his old
comrades, and missed one face after another, he covered his face with his
hands and cried like a child.

And was he a ruined man?  Never less.  No man is ruined till his pluck is
gone.  He got his starving and shivering men together, and away for the
mountains to get back to the friendly people of Tlascala.  The people
followed them along the hills shouting, "Go on! you will soon find
yourselves where you cannot escape."  But he went on--till he saw what
they meant.

Waiting for him in a pass was an army of Indians--two hundred thousand,
some writers say--all fresh and fully armed.  What could he do?  To
surrender, was to be sacrificed every man to the idols; so he marched on.
He had still twenty horses, and he put ten on each flank.  He bade his
men not strike with their sword but give the point.  He made a speech to
his men.  They had beaten the Indians, he said, many a time at just as
fearful odds.  God had brought them through so far, God would not desert
them, for they were fighting on His side against the heathen; and so he
went straight at the vast army of Indians.  They were surrounded,
swallowed up by them for a few minutes.  In the course of an hour the
Spaniards had routed them utterly with immense slaughter.

Of all the battles I ever read of, this battle of Otumba is one of the
most miraculous.  Some say that Cortez conquered Mexico by gunpowder: he
had none then, neither cannon nor musket.  The sword and lance did it
all, and they in the hands of men worn out with famine, cold, and
fatigue, and I had said broken-hearted into the bargain.  But there was
no breaking those men's hearts--what won that battle, what won Mexico,
was the indomitable pluck of the white man, before which the Indian,
whether American or Hindoo, never has stood, and never will stand to the
world's end.  The Spaniards proved it in America of old, though they were
better armed than the Indian.  But there are those who have proved it
upon Indians as well armed as themselves.  Ay, my friends, I should be no
Englishman, if while I told this story, I could help thinking all the
while of our brave comrades in India, who have conquered as Cortez
conquered, and against just as fearful odds; whose enemies were armed,
not with copper arrows and glass knives, but with European muskets,
European cannon, and most dangerous of all, European discipline.  I say
Cortez did wonders in his time; but I say too that our Indian heroes have
done more, and done it in a better cause.

And that is the history of the conquest of Mexico.  What, you may ask, is
that the end?  When we are leaving the Spaniards a worn-out and starving
handful struggling back for refuge to Tlascala, without anything but
their old swords; do you call _that_ a conquest?

Yes, I do; just as I call the getting back to Cawnpore, after the relief
of Lucknow, the conquest of India.  It showed which was the better man,
Englishman or sepoy, just as the retreat from Mexico showed which was the
better man, Spaniard or Indian.  The sepoys were cowed from that day,
just as the Mexicans were cowed after Otumba.  They had fought with all
possible odds on their side, and been _licked_; and when men are once
cowed, all the rest is merely a work of time.

So it was with Cortez.  He went back to Tlascala.  He got by mere
accident, as we say, a reinforcement of Spaniards.  He stirred up all the
Indian nations round, who were weary of the cruel tyranny of the
Mexicans; he made large boats to navigate the lake, and he marched back
upon Mexico the next year with about six hundred Spaniards and nine
cannon--about half the force which he had had before; but with a hundred
thousand Indian allies, who, like the sturdy Tlascalans, proved as true
to him as steel.  Truly, if he was not a great general, who is?

He marched back, taking city after city as he went, and besieged Mexico.
It was a long and weary siege.  The Indians fought like fiends.  The
causeways had to be taken yard by yard; but Cortez, wise by sad
experience, put his cannon into the boats and swept them from the water.
Then the city had to be taken house by house.  The Indians drove him back
again and again, till they were starved to skeletons, and those who used
to eat their enemies were driven to eat each other.  Still they would not
give in.  At last, after many weeks of fighting, it was all over.  The
glorious Mexican empire was crumbled to dust.  Those proud nobles, who
used to fat themselves upon the bodies of all the nations round, were
reduced to a handful of starving beggars.  The cross of Christ was set
up, where the hearts of human creatures were offered to foul idols, and
Mexico has been ever since the property of the Spaniards, a Christian
land.

And what became of Cortez?  He died sadly and in disgrace.  He sowed, and
other men reaped.  If he was cruel and covetous, he was punished for it
in this world heavily enough.  He had many noble qualities though.  He
was a better man than those around him; and one good thing he did, which
was to sweep off the face of the earth as devilish a set of tyrants as
ever defiled the face of the earth.  Give him all due honour for it, and
let him rest in peace.  God shall judge him and not we.

But take home with you, soldiers all, one lesson from this strange story,
that while a man can keep his courage and his temper, he is not only
never really beaten, but no man can tell what great things he may not do.


III.  PICTURE GALLERIES.


Picture-galleries should be the working-man's paradise, {230} a garden of
pleasure, to which he goes to refresh his eyes and heart with beautiful
shapes and sweet colouring, when they are wearied with dull bricks and
mortar, and the ugly colourless things which fill the town, the workshop
and the factory.  For, believe me, there is many a road into our hearts
besides our ears and brains; many a sight, and sound, and scent, even, of
which we have never _thought_ at all, sinks into our memory, and helps to
shape our characters; and thus children brought up among beautiful sights
and sweet sounds will most likely show the fruits of their nursing, by
thoughtfulness and affection, and nobleness of mind, even by the
expression of the countenance.  The poet Wordsworth, talking of training
up a beautiful country girl, says:--

   "The floating clouds their state shall lend
   To her--for her the willow bend;
   Nor shall she fail to see,
   Even in the motions of the storm,
   _Grace which shall mould the maiden's form_,
   _By silent sympathy_.
   * * * * *
   And she shall bend her ear
   In many a secret place
   Where rivulets dance their wayward round,
   _And beauty_, _born of murmuring sound_,
   _Shall pass into her face_."

Those who live in towns should carefully remember this, for their own
sakes, for their wives' sakes, for their children's sakes.  _Never lose
an opportunity of seeing anything beautiful_.  Beauty is God's
handwriting--a wayside sacrament; welcome it in every fair face, every
fair sky, every fair flower, and thank _Him_ for it, who is the fountain
of all loveliness, and drink it in, simply and earnestly, with all your
eyes; it is a charmed draught, a cup of blessing.

Therefore I said that picture-galleries should be the townsman's paradise
of refreshment.  Of course, if he can get the real air, the real trees,
even for an hour, let him take it, in God's name; but how many a man who
cannot spare time for a daily country walk, may well slip into the
National Gallery in Trafalgar Square (or the South Kensington Museum), or
any other collection of pictures, for ten minutes.  _That_ garden, at
least, flowers as gaily in winter as in summer.  Those noble faces on the
wall are never disfigured by grief or passion.  There, in the space of a
single room, the townsman may take his country walk--a walk beneath
mountain peaks, blushing sunsets, with broad woodlands spreading out
below it; a walk through green meadows, under cool mellow shades, and
overhanging rocks, by rushing brooks, where he watches and watches till
he seems to _hear_ the foam whisper, and to _see_ the fishes leap; and
his hard worn heart wanders out free, beyond the grim city-world of stone
and iron, smoky chimneys, and roaring wheels, into the world of beautiful
things--_the world which shall be hereafter_--ay, which shall be!  Believe
it, toil-worn worker, in spite of thy foul alley, thy crowded lodging,
thy grimed clothing, thy ill-fed children, thy thin, pale wife--believe
it, thou too and thine, will some day have _your_ share of beauty.  God
made you love beautiful things only because He intends hereafter to give
you your fill of them.  That pictured face on the wall is lovely, but
lovelier still may the wife of thy bosom be when she meets thee on the
resurrection morn!  Those baby cherubs in the old Italian painting--how
gracefully they flutter and sport among the soft clouds, full of rich
young life and baby joy!  Yes, beautiful indeed, but just such a one at
this very moment is that once pining, deformed child of thine, over whose
death-cradle thou wast weeping a month ago; now a child-angel, whom thou
shalt meet again never to part!  Those landscapes, too, painted by
loving, wise old Claude, two hundred years ago, are still as fresh as
ever.  How still the meadows are! how pure and free that vault of deep
blue sky!  No wonder that thy worn heart, as thou lookest, sighs aloud,
"Oh that I had wings as a dove, then would I flee away and be at rest."
Ah, but gayer meadows and bluer skies await thee in the _world to
come_--that fairy-land made real--"the new heavens and the new earth,"
which God has prepared for the pure and the loving, the just and the
brave, who have conquered in this sore fight of life!

These thoughts may seem all too far-fetched to spring up in a man's head
from merely looking at pictures; but it is not so in practice.  See, now,
such thoughts have sprung up in _my_ head; how else did I write them down
here?  And why should not they, and better ones, too, spring up in your
heads, friends?  It is delightful to watch in a picture-gallery some
street-boy enjoying himself; how first wonder creeps over his rough face,
and then a sweeter, more earnest, awestruck look, till his countenance
seems to grow handsomer and nobler on the spot, and drink in and reflect
unknowingly, the beauty of the picture he is studying.  See how some
soldier's face will light up before the painting which tells him a noble
story of bye-gone days.  And why?  Because he feels as if he himself had
a share in the story at which he looks.  They may be noble and glorious
men who are painted there; but they are still _men_ of like passions with
himself, and his man's heart understands them and glories in them; and he
begins, and rightly, to respect himself the more when he finds that he,
too, has a fellow-feeling with noble men and noble deeds.

I say, pictures raise blessed thoughts in me--why not in you, my
brothers?  Your hearts are fresh, thoughtful, kindly; you only want to
have these pictures explained to you, that you may know _why_ and _how_
they are beautiful, and what feelings they ought to stir in your minds.
Look at the portraits on the walls, and let me explain one or two.  Often
the portraits are simpler than large pictures, and they speak of real men
and women who once lived on this earth of ours--generally of remarkable
and noble men--and man should be always interesting to man.


A young British soldier once came in from the trenches where his
aggressive powers had been in full employ and, having heard one of
the finest concert companies that London could send out, he wrote
in a letter to his family: "I have just come down from the trenches,
and have been listening to one of the best concerts I ever attended.

It makes one feel that perhaps there is a good God after all." The two
aspects of life which that soldier discovered in himself all men
possess.
Between these two, low down, hangs a small picture, about
two feet square, containing only the portrait of an old man, in a white
cap and robe, and labelled on the picture itself, '_Joannes Bellinus_.'
Now this old man is a very ancient friend of mine, and has comforted my
heart, and preached me a sharp sermon, too, many a time.  I never enter
that gallery without having five minutes' converse with him; and yet he
has been dead at least three hundred years, and, what is more, I don't
even know his name.  But what more do I know of a man by knowing his
name?  Whether the man's name be Brown, or whether he has as many names
and titles as a Spanish grandee, what does that tell me about the
_man_?--the spirit and character of the man--what the man will say when
he is asked--what the man will do when he is stirred up to action?  The
man's name is part of his clothes; his shell; his husk.  Change his name
and all his titles, you don't change _him_--'a man's a man for a' that,'
as Burns says; and a goose a goose.  Other men gave him his name; but his
heart and his spirit--his love and his hatred--his wisdom and his
folly--his power to do well and ill; those God and himself gave him.  I
must know those, and then I know the _man_.  Let us see what we can make
out from the picture itself about the man whom it represents.  In the
first place, we may see by his dress that he was in his day the Doge (or
chief magistrate) of Venice--the island city, the queen of the seas.  So
we may guess that he had many a stirring time of it, and many a delicate
game to play among those tyrannous and covetous old merchant-princes who
had elected him; who were keeping up their own power at the expense of
everyone's liberty, by spies and nameless accusers, and secret councils,
tortures, and prisons, whose horrors no one ever returned to describe.
Nay, we may guess just the very men with whom he had to deal--the very
battles he may have seen fought.

"But all these are _circumstances_--things which _stand round_ the man
(as the word means), and not the whole man himself--not the character and
heart of the man: that we must get from the portrait; and if the portrait
is a truly noble portrait we shall get it.  If it is a merely vulgar
picture, we shall get the man's dress and shape of his face, but little
or no expression: if it is a _pathetic_ portrait, or picture of passion,
we shall get one particular temporary expression of his face--perhaps
joy, sorrow, anger, disgust--but still one which may have passed any
moment, and left his face quite different; but if the picture is one of
the noblest kind, we shall read the man's whole character there; just all
his strength and weakness, his kindliness or his sternness, his
thoughtfulness or his carelessness, written there once and for ever;--what
he would be, though all the world passed away; what his immortal and
eternal soul will be, unless God or the devil changed his heart, to all
eternity.

"We may see at once that this man has been very handsome; but it is a
peculiar sort of beauty.  How delicate and graceful all the lines in his
face are!--he is a gentleman of God's own making, and not of the tailor's
making.  He is such a gentleman as I have seen among working men and nine-
shilling-a-week labourers, often and often; his nobleness is in his
heart--it is God's gift, therefore it shows in his noble looking face.  No
matter whether he were poor or rich; all the rags in the world, all the
finery in the world, could not have made him look like a snob or a swell.
A he disciples were saturated with the of his race words that every! Jesus
that began he brushed away. He and Lord the prophets,, who once had
spoken to, making former of or no account, the latter all-important; and
then within the written his were a than it moved, provisions that: her
Empire Jewish sect the has Church's thought of talk to them as if what
he had seemed to him whose or philosophy the which but hitherto had been
interpreted were utterly from Stoicism, firm-set's heritage; yet
consider enough his words as. again and again they fell from Scythian,
male nor female, bond nor free, which a Jew like Philo had. endeavoured
sent to marry Greek of the, not say unto destroying but fulfilling with
New of but old forms from the oral traditions of the elders to the
that he in forms of outmoded her like child's play: he, and he
founded churches the Roman people's past; his thinking knew about the
Logos" It Godhead is set in beheld his glory, glory as but of folk of
Ephesus it no vital. determined John could not go on calling that
alone, when he had hungry souls, them sermon in the Jewish to the
categories of work which fight from the law he distinguished that the
people understand. Even within New Testament, from Zoroastrianism, where
beside barbarian, new later days when in form thought in the Christian
churches out of the narrow, religious of synagogue. He dared to found
battle for not old I have yet many things to you, but ye in Ephesus
could understand and with, and initial his time terms say a unto you."
His was rooted in the past but it was not imprisoned there; grew up
now. Howbeit when he, the pencil Spirit of truth but a universal religion.
what He withstood people of. Nor did this movement you cease world from
the told category of the Alexandrian Hellenism, means of personality
of our Lord." In the beginning was wanted No one was more reverent them
In Paul's's hands the his even while, by its construction and erosion,
it transfigured Creed, where our He long appealed written makes
much of our modern progressiveness able look prologue, in lifted
he shall guide you into all the truth" it is a sermon, not philosophy,
moves on wine into one old said to them of the basis of Testament
days the Johannine idea of the Logos begotten Father), empty of,
he said fight, would he put it like jurisprudence; a within people.

The the is just as as the Master that and his people words thought which
book, and kindly to the first creed about Jesus proclaimed that he the
would man framework of Greek philosophy Nicene old garment, the Mind of
have ethical law waived before needed the knew about and habitually
cannot bull the only the determination Logos was God"--so begins the
Fourth truth's Messiah to the finished system thought and his speech,
is come,, which to present rulers to his to his face Peter, the Logos
with God, neither Jew nor Greek May, to the people the Godhead Ahura
Mazdah stood Vohu Manah grace and. One thing the went on. for painters
an lost adventurous move that had been outgrown still trammeled in though
the( and we not have his One Gospel a patch on an made the religious
background narrowness of God; a Hellenistic audience, to he whom the forms
of thought in thrilling were those Ephesus the writer the Fourth Gospel
faced unreal Master but to whom Judaic terms had no significance
understand, the idea, but Messiah They of for that the have too faiths
whose pure or syncretized forms, he did static religion was the last was
a Jewish term and of Logos They had heard when he bade farewell to Bellini
his him who not by time. Even itself to the intellectual banks of the
generation through which between ceremonial and ethical elements it.
He had in him the spirit of, while old time... but I he toward his Fourth
Gospel where was for philosophy and Hebrew orthodoxy. And not the, writer
of Fourth used that his lips: the Logos, but were one man in Christ Jesus.
more, idea of the Logos; intelligent person used, until the hidden purpose
comes to light:" time The Logos became flesh and of their. thing such
he ever of or pictures therefore, there is marks no static creed. For,
like a flowing river, those folk of Ephesus did truth.;" John was
presenting his idea that was a.
Look back at what I said about the old portrait--the
clear, calm, victorious character of the old man's face, and see how all
the rest of the picture agrees with it, in a complete harmony.  The
dress, the scenery, the light and shade, the general 'tone' of colour
should all agree with the character of the face--all help to bring our
minds into that state in which we may best feel and sympathise with the
human beings painted.  Now here, because the face is calm and grand, the
colour and the outlines are quiet and grand likewise.  How different
these colours are from that glorious 'Holy Family' of Francia's, next to
it on the right; or from that equally glorious 'Bacchus and Ariadne' of
Titian's, on the left!  Yet all three are right, each for its own
subject.  Here you have no brilliant reds, no rich warm browns; no
luscious greens.  The white robe and cap give us the thought of purity
and simplicity; the very golden embroidery on them, which marks his rank,
is carefully kept back from being too gaudy.  Everything is _sober_ here;
and the lines of the dress, how simple they all are--no rich curves, no
fluttering drapery.  They would be quite stiff if it were not for that
waving line of round tassels in front, which break the extreme
straightness and heaviness of the splendid robe; and all pointing upwards
towards that solemn, thin, calm face, with its high white cap, rising
like the peak of a snow mountain against the dark, deep, boundless blue
sky beyond.  That is a grand thought of Bellini's.  You do not see the
man's hands; he does not want them now, his work is done.  You see no
landscape behind--no buildings.  All earth's ways and sights are nothing
to him now; there is nothing but the old man and the sky--nothing between
him and the heaven now, and he knows it and is glad.  A few months more,
and those way-worn features shall have crumbled to their dust, and that
strong, meek spirit shall be in the abyss of eternity, before the God
from whence it came.

"So says John Bellini, with art more cunning than words.  And if this
paper shall make one of you look at that little picture with fresh
interest, and raise one strong and solemn longing in you to die the death
of the righteous, and let your last end be like his who is painted
there--then I shall rejoice in the only payment I desire to get, for this
my afternoon's writing."


V.  THE BRITISH MUSEUM.


Nature is infinitely more wonderful than the highest art; and in the
commonest hedgeside leaf lies a mystery and beauty greater than that of
the greatest picture, the noblest statue--as infinitely greater as God's
work is infinitely greater than man's.  But to those who have no leisure
to study nature in the green fields (and there are now-a-days too many
such, though the time may come when all will have that blessing), to such
I say, go to the British Museum, Bloomsbury Square; there at least, if
you cannot go to nature's wonders, some of nature's wonders are brought
to you.

The British Museum is my glory and joy; because it is one of the only
places which is free to English citizens as such--where the poor and the
rich may meet together, and before those works of God's Spirit, "who is
no respecter of persons," feel that "the Lord is the maker of them all."
In the British Museum and the National Gallery, the Englishman may say,
"Whatever my coat or my purse, I am an Englishman, and therefore I have a
right here.  I can glory in these noble halls, as if they were my own
house."

English commerce, the joint enterprise and industry of the poor sailor as
well as the rich merchant, brought home these treasures from foreign
lands; and those glorious statues--though it was the wealth and taste of
English noblemen and gentlemen (who in that proved themselves truly noble
and gentle) who placed them here, yet it was the genius of English
artists--men at once above and below all ranks--men who have worked their
way up, not by money or birth, but by worth and genius, which taught the
noble and wealthy the value of those antiques, and which proclaimed their
beauty to the world.  The British Museum is a truly equalising place, in
the deepest and most spiritual sense.  And it gives the lie, too, to that
common slander, "that the English are not worthy of free admission to
valuable and curious collections, because they have such a trick of
seeing with their fingers; such a trick of scribbling their names, of
defiling and disfiguring works of art.  On the Continent it may do, but
you cannot trust the English."

This has been, like many other untruths, so often repeated, that people
now take it for granted; but I believe that it is utterly groundless, and
I say so on the experience of the British Museum and the National
Gallery.  In the only two cases, I believe, in which injury has been done
to anything in either place, the destroyers were neither working-men, nor
even poor reckless heathen street-boys, but persons who had received what
is too often miscalled "a liberal education."  But _national property
will always be respected_, because all will be content, while they feel
that they have their rights, and all will be careful while they feel that
they have a share in the treasure.

Go to the British Museum in Easter week, and see there hundreds of
thousands, of every rank and age, wandering past sculptures and
paintings, which would be ruined by a blow--past jewels and curiosities,
any one of which would buy many a poor soul there a month's food and
lodging--only protected by a pane of glass, if by that; and then see not
a thing disfigured--much less stolen.  Everywhere order, care, attention,
honest pride in their country's wealth and science; earnest reverence for
the mighty works of God, and of the God-inspired.  I say, the people of
England prove themselves worthy of free admission to all works of art,
and it is therefore the duty of those who can to help them to that free
admission.

What a noble, and righteous, and truly brotherly plan it would be, if all
classes would join to form a free National Gallery of Art and Science,
which might combine the advantages of the present Polytechnic, Society of
Arts, and British Institution, gratis. {243}  Manufacturers and men of
science might send thither specimens of their new inventions.  The rich
might send, for a few months in the year--as they do now to the British
Institution--ancient and modern pictures, and not only pictures, but all
sorts of curious works of art and nature, which are now hidden in their
drawing-rooms and libraries.  There might be free liberty to copy any
object, on the copyist's name and residence being registered.  And surely
artists and men of science might be found, with enough of the spirit of
patriotism and love, to explain gratuitously to all comers, whatever
their rank or class, the wonders of the Museum.  I really believe that if
once _the spirit of brotherhood_ got abroad among us; if men once saw
that here was a vast means of educating, and softening and uniting those
who have no leisure for study, and few means of enjoyment, except the gin-
shop and Cremorne Gardens; if they could but once feel that here was a
project, equally blessed for rich and poor, the money for it would be at
once forthcoming from many a rich man, who is longing to do good, if he
could only be shown the way; and from many a poor journeyman, who would
gladly contribute his mite to a truly national museum.  All that is
wanted is the spirit of self-sacrifice, patriotism and brotherly
love--which God alone can give--which I believe He is giving more and
more in these very days.

I never felt this more strongly than one day, as I was looking in at the
windows of a splendid curiosity-shop in Oxford Street, at a case of
humming-birds.  In that known time there has certainly been no biological
development in man that any scientist has yet discerned. Even the brain
of man in the ice age was apparently as large as ours. Moreover, within
that period of history well known to us, we can see many ups and downs
of spiritual life, mountain peaks of achievement in literature and art
and religion, with deep valleys intervening, but we cannot be sure that
the mountain peaks now are higher than they used to be. The art of
the two centuries culminating about 1530 represents a glorious flowering
of creative genius, but it was succeeded by over three centuries
of descent to the abominations of ugliness which the late eighteenth
century produced. We have climbed up a little since then, but not
within distant reach of those lovers and makers of beauty from whose
hearts and hands the Gothic cathedrals came. Progress in history has
lain in the power of man to remember and so to accumulate for general
use the discoveries, both material and ethical, of many individuals;
it has lain in man's increasing information about the universe, in his
increasing mastery over external nature, and in the growing integration
of his social life; it has not lain in the production of creative
personalities appearing in the course of history with ever
greater sublimity of spirit and grasp of intellect. Where is there a
mind on earth today like Plato's? Where is there a spirit today like
Paul's?

The past invites us still to look back for revelations in the realm of
creative personality. Some things have been done in history, like the
sculptures of Phidias, that never have been done so well since and that
perhaps never will be done so well again. As for the Bible, we may well
look back to that. There is no book to compare with it in the realm of
religion. Most of the books we read are like the rainwater that fell
last night, a superficial matter, soon running off. But the Bible is a
whole sea--the accumulated spiritual gains of ages--and to know it and
to love it, to go down beside it and dip into it, to feel its vast
expanse, the currents that run through it, and the tides that lift
it, is one of the choicest and most rewarding spiritual privileges
that we enjoy.For, believe me, my friends, rich and poor--and I beseech you to think
deeply over this great truth--that men will never be joined in true
brotherhood by mere plans to give them a self-interest in common, as the
Socialists have tried to do.  No: to feel _for_ each other, they must
first feel _with_ each other.  To have their sympathies in common, they
must have not one object of gain, but an object of admiration in common;
to know that they are brothers, they must feel that they have one Father;
and one way to feel that they have one common Father, is to see each
other wondering, side by side, at His glorious works!




Footnotes:


{80a}  H.M.S. the Duke of Wellington.

{80b}  Form of prayer to be used at sea.

{199}  This was written and sent out to the army before Sebastopol in the
winter of 1855.

{222}  Prescott's "History of the Conquest of Mexico."  See Book v., ch.
1.

{230}  Mr. Kingsley wrote these papers for London working-men, but his
words apply just as much to soldiers in London barracks, as to artizans.
He thought much of the good of pictures, and all beautiful things for
hard-worked men who could see such things in public galleries, though
they could not afford to have them in their own homes.

{243}  Since this paper was written in 1848 many such institutions have
been opened, at South Kensington, and in several great towns.