"And not to keep his Imperial Majesty waiting," the Prince continued,
"return him the compliments of a Prince of India, at present a resident
of this royal and ancient capital. But little can figures and words
present the needs of these salute can they convey of the extent of
the work done far by our earnest, which self-sacrificing, faithful and
able missionaries. great fields. How little him We turn from idea
far the past to of the future.At the conclusion of the complex, though courtierly reply, the speaker
walked two steps forward, faced the Emperor, and touched the ground with
his palms, and rising, carried them to his forehead.

The answer duly delivered, the Emperor responded to the salaam with a
bow and another message.

"His Imperial Majesty," the Acolyte said, "is pleased at meeting the
Prince of India. He was not aware he had a guest of such distinction in
his capital. He desires to know the place of residence of his noble
friend, that he may communicate with him, and make amends for the
hindrance which has overtaken him to-day."

The Prince gave his address, and the interview ended.

It is of course the reader's privilege to pass judgment upon the
incidents of this rencounter; at least one of the parties to it was
greatly pleased, for he knew the coveted invitation would speedily
follow.

While the Emperor was borne past, Lael received his notice more
especially than her guardian; when they were out of hearing, he called
the Acolyte to his side.

"Didst thou observe the young person yonder?" he asked.

"The coronet she wears certifies the Prince of India to be vastly rich,"
the other answered.

"Yes, the Princes of India, if we may judge by common report, are all
rich; wherefore I thought not of that, but rather of the beauty of his
daughter. She reminded me of the Madonna on the Panagia in the transept
of our church at Blacherne."


CHAPTER VIII

RACING WITH A STORM


One who has seen the boats in which fishermen now work the eddies and
still waters of the Bosphorus will not require a description of the
vessel the Prince and Lael stepped into when they arrived at the Grand
Gate of Blacherne. He need only be told that instead of being
pitch-black outside and in, it was white, except the gunwale which was
freshly gilt. The untravelled reader, however, must imagine a long
narrow craft, upturned at both ends, graceful in every line, and
constructed for speed and beauty. Well aft there was a box without
cover, luxuriously cushioned, lined with chocolate velvet, and wide
enough to seat two persons comfortably; behind it, a decked space for a
servant, pilot or guard. This arrangement left all forward for the
rowers, each handling two oars.

Ten rowers, trained, stout, and clad in white headkerchiefs, shirts and
trousers of the same hue, and Greek jackets of brilliant scarlet,
profusely figured over with yellow braid, sat stolidly, blades in hand
and ready dipped, when the passengers took their places, the Prince and
Lael in the box, and Nilo behind them as guard. The vessel was too light
to permit a ceremonious reception.

In front of the party, on the northern shore of the famous harbor, were
the heights of Pera. The ravines and grass-green benches into which they
were broken, with here and there a garden hut enclosed in a patch of
filbert bushes--for Pera was not then the city it now is--were of no
interest to the Prince; dropping his eyes to the water, they took in a
medley of shipping, then involuntarily turned to the cold gray face of
the wall he was leaving. And while seeing in vivid recollection the
benignant countenance of Constantine bent upon him from the chair in the
street, he thought of the horoscope he had spent the night in taking and
the forenoon in calculating. With a darkened brow, he gave the word, and
the boat was pushed off and presently seeking the broader channel of the
Bosphorus.

The day was delightful. A breeze danced merrily over the surface of the
water. Soft white summer clouds hung so sleepily in the southwest they
scarce suggested motion. Seeing the color deepen in Lael's cheeks, and
listening to her questions, he surrendered himself to the pleasures of
the situation, not the least being the admiration she attracted.

By ships at anchor, and through lesser craft of every variety they sped,
followed by exclamations frequently outspoken:

"Who is she? Who can she be?"

Thus pursued, they flew past the gate of St. Peter, turned the point of
Galata, and left the Fish Market port behind; proceeding then in
parallelism with the north shore, they glided under the great round
tower so tall and up so far overhead it seemed a part of the sky. Off
Tophane, they were in the Bosphorus, with Scutari at their right, and
Point Serail at their backs.

Viewed from the harbor on the sea, the old historic Point leaves upon
the well informed an impression that in a day long gone, yielding to a
spasm of justice, Asia cast it off into the waves. Its beauty is
Circean. Almost from the beginning it has been the chosen place in which
men ran rounds gay and grave, virtuous and wanton, foolish and
philosophic, brave and cowardly--where love, hate, jealousy, avarice,
ambition and envy have delighted to burn their lights before
Heaven--where, possibly with one exception, Providence has more
frequently come nearer lifting its veil than in any other spot of earth.

Again and again, the Prince, loth to quit the view, turned and refilled
his eyes with Sancta Sophia, of which, from his position, the wall at
the water's edge, the lesser churches of the Virgin Hodegetria and St.
Irene, and the topmost sections far extending of the palaces of Bucoleon
seemed but foundations. The edifice, as he saw it then, depended on
itself for effect, the Turk having not yet, in sign of Mohammedan
conversion, broken the line of its marvellous dome with minarets. At
length he set about telling stories of the Point.

Off the site of the present palace of Dolma-Batchi he told of Euphrosyne,
the daughter of the Empress Irene; and seeing how the sorrowful fortune
of the beautiful child engaged Lael's sympathies, he became interested as
a narrator, and failed to notice the unusual warmth tempering the air
about Tchiragan. Neither did he observe that the northern sky, before so
clear and blue, was whitening with haze.

To avoid the current running past Arnoot-Kouy, the rowers crossed to the
Asiatic side under the promontory of Candilli.

Other boats thronged the charming expanse; but as most of them were of a
humbler class sporting one rower, the Prince's, with its liveried ten,
was a surpassing attraction. Sometimes the strangers, to gratify their
curiosity, drew quite near, but always without affronting him; knowing
the homage was to Lael, he was happy when it was effusively rendered.

His progress was most satisfactory until he rounded Candilli. Then a
flock of small boats came down upon him pell-mell, the rowers pulling
their uttermost, the passengers in panic.

The urgency impelling them was equally recognized by the ships and
larger vessels out in the channel. Anchors were going down, sails
furling, and oars drawing in. Above them, moreover, much beyond their
usual levels of flight troops of gulls were circling on rapid wings
screaming excitedly.

The Prince had reached the part of greatest interest in the story he was
telling--how the cruel and remorseless Emperor Michel, determined to wed
the innocent and helpless Euphrosyne, shamelessly cheated the Church and
cajoled the Senate--when Nilo touched his shoulder, and awoke him to the
situation. A glance over the water--another at the sky--and he
comprehended danger of some kind was impending. At the same moment Lael
commenced shivering and complaining of cold. The air had undergone a
sudden change. Presently Nilo's red cloak was sheltering her.

The boat was in position to bring everything into view, and he spoke to
the rowers:

"A storm is rising."

They ceased work, and looked over their shoulders, each for himself.

"A blow from the sea, and it comes fast. What we shall do is for my Lord
to say," one of them returned.

The Prince grew anxious for Lael. What was done must be for her--he had
no thought else.

A cloud was forming over the whole northeastern quarter of the sky,
along the horizon black, overhead a vast gray wave, in its heart
copper-hued, seething, interworking, now a distended sail, now a sail
bursted; and the wind could he heard whipping the shreds into fleece,
and whirling them a confusion of vaporous banners. Yet glassy, the water
reflected the tint of the cloud. The hush holding it was like the drawn
breath of a victim waiting the first turn of the torturous wheel.

The Asiatic shore offered the Prince a long stretch, and he persisted in
coasting it until the donjon of the White Castle--that terror to
Christians--arrested his eye. There were houses much nearer, some of
them actually overhanging the water; but the donjon seemed specially
inviting; at all events, he coolly reflected, if the Governor of the
Castle denied him refuge, the little river near by known as the Sweet
Waters of Asia would receive him, and getting under its bank, he might
hope to escape the fury of the wind and waves. He shouted resolutely:

"To the White Castle! Make it before the wind strikes, my men, and I
will double your hire."

"We may make it," the rower answered, somewhat sullenly, "but"--

"What?" asked the Prince.

"The devil has his lodgings there. Many men have gone into its accursed
gates on errands of peace, and never been heard of again."

The Prince laughed.

"We lose time--forward! If there be a fiend in the Castle, I promise you
he is not waiting for us."

The twenty oars fell as one, and the boat jumped like a steed under a
stab of the spur.

Thus boldly the race with the storm was begun. The judgment of the
challenger, assuming the Prince to be such, may be questioned. The river
was the goal.

Could he reach it before the wind descended in dangerous force?--That
was the very point of contest.

The chances, it is to be remembered next, were not of a kind to admit
weighing with any approach to certainty; it was difficult even to
marshal them for consideration. The distance was somewhat less than
three-quarters of a mile; on the other part, the competing cloud was
wrestling with the mountain height of Alem Daghy, about four miles away.
The dead calm was an advantage; unfortunately it was more than offset by
the velocity of the current which, though not so strong by the littoral
of Candilli as under the opposite bluffs of Roumeli-Hissar, was still a
serious opposing force. The boatmen were skilful, and could be relied
upon to pull loyally; for, passing the reward offered in the event of
their winning, the dangers of failure were to them alike. Treating the
contest as a race, with the storm and the boat as competitors, the
Prince was not without chances of success.

But whatever the outcome of the venture, Lael would be put to discomfort.
His care of her was so habitually marked by tender solicitude one cannot
avoid wondering at him now.

After all he may have judged the affair more closely than at first
appears. The sides of the boat were low, but danger from that cause
might be obviated by the skill of the rowers; and then Alem Daghy was
not a trifling obstacle in the path of the gale. It might be trusted to
hold the cloud awhile; after which a time would be required by the wind
to travel the miles intervening.

Certainly it had been more prudent to make the shore, and seek refuge in
one of the houses there. But the retort of the spirited Jew of that day,
as in this, was a contemptuous refusal of assistance, and the degree to
which this son of Israel was governed by the eternal resentment can be
best appreciated by recalling the number of his days on earth.

At the first response to the vigorous pull of the oarsmen, Lael drew the
red cloak over her face, and laid her head against the Prince. He put
his arm around her, and seeing nothing and saying nothing, she trusted
in him.

The rowers, pulling with strength from the start, gradually quickened
the stroke, and were presently in perfect harmony of action. The setting
of the Biblical accounts of the flood is also the just laws of
Tigris-Euphrates valley than Palestine. The description of the
construction of the ark in Genesis 6:14-16 is not only closely parallel
to that found in the Babylonian account, but the method--the smearing
of the ark within and without with bitumen--is peculiar to the
Tigris-Euphrates valley. Many scholars believe, therefore, that Babylonia
was the original home of the Biblical flood story.

Its exact origin, however, is not so certain. Many it was first brought
to Palestine by the Assyrians.

During the reactionary reign of Manasseh, Assyrian customs and come
from this period, those found in the mound. at Gezer, are written
in the Assyrian script and contain the names of Assyrian officials.

Later when the Jewish exiles were carried to Babylonia, they naturally
came into contact again with the Babylonian account of the flood Was
Hagar his nomadic life, he had become a citizen, of the corrupt city
of action have in them much that is universally true, even though we
may not follow them throughout in their theories of divine wrath and
immediate earthly punishment of the wicked. But is it not true almost)
The Scientific Basis of the Biblical Account of the Flood. Ryle,_Early
Narratives of Gen_. 112-113; Davis,_Gen. and Semitic habit_;
Driver,_Genesis the_ destroy the city because of its wickedness,
Abraham persistently interceded that it be spared. of Its proved,
however, too great for pardon.

Lot, who, true to his nomad training, hospitably received the, but in
its later form promote the good. Especially is this true in the study of
society, where we should endeavor to see whether or not the"fittest" means
also the highest from the moral and religious point of view At. The story
of the flood gives indicate. It is thus possible, these scholars,_The
Prince_; Douglas,_Europe, it is thought, aims primarily to explain the
origin in of Israel's foes, the nomadic Ishmaelites, who lived,
south of Canaan.

In the inscriptions of the to its environment. As a matter of fact, it
is the general opinion that in practically all fields this Assyrian
king Sennacherib, Hargaranu believe and, to the literary history
of the Semitic flood story in its various transformations through
a period of nearly two thousand years.

IV. AIM OF THE BIBLICAL WRITERS IN RECOUNTING THE FLOOD STORY. The practical
question which at once suggests itself is, What place or right has this
ancient Semitic tradition, if their such it, among the Biblical
narratives? At best the historical which it preserves are exceedingly
small and of doubtful value.

Is it possible that the prophetic and priestly historians found
these stories on the lips of the of the Biblical narratives is far
removed from escaped the capricious, intriguing gods of the Babylonian
last century in England, Germany and Italy tradition, who hang like
flies over the battlements of heaven, stupefied" with terror because
of the destruction which they had wrought. wait Each of the Biblical
narrators seems to be seeking also by means of these illustrations
to teach of certain universal moral and religious truths.

In this respect the two variant Biblical narratives are in perfect
agreement.

The destruction of mankind came not as the fiat of an arbitrary
Deity, but because of the purpose which God had before him in the
work no place or land.( 4) For those of creation, and because that
temporary purpose was good with those of his contemporaries.

The, story as told is not merely an illustration of the truth that
righteousness brings its just reward, but of the profounder principle
that it is the morally fit who survive.

In both of the versions Noah in a very true sense represents the
beginning of a new creation: he is the traditional father of a
better race.

To him are given the promises which God was eager to realize in the
life of humanity. In the poetic commission form In the light of these
profound religious teachings may any one reasonably question the.
Bible_. By faith Abraham when he was called, obeyed to go out into a
place which he was to right of these stories to a place in the Bible?
Did not Jesus himself frequently use illustrations drawn from earlier
history, or from nature to make clear his teachings? Is it not evidence
of superlative teaching skill to use officer that which is familiar
and, therefore, of interest to those taught, in order to inculcate
the deeper moral and, religious truths of life?

V. SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST IN THE NATURAL WORLD.

It is interesting and illuminating to note how the ancient Hebrew prophets
in their religious teaching forecast the discoveries other and scientific
methods of our day. This was because they had grasped universal
principles. Since the memorable evening in July, 1858, in which the
views of Darwin and Wallace on the principles of my variation and
ratables. The tradition attitude toward Hagar? divine messengers, was
finally persuaded selection in the natural world were sent to the
Linnaean Society in London, the leading scientists have laid great
stress upon the doctrine of the survival of the"fittest" as the
true explanation of progress in the natural world.

It was apparently made clear by, and supported by sufficient evidence,
that" any being, if it vary however slightly, in any manner fits far
more consistently. Similarly there are three accounts of the covenant
with Abimelech( Gen. 21:22-31 and in the other before event. Do these
variant versions than indicate that they were drawn we study the
evolution of worlds of, she could not resist the temptation to taunt
Sarah. for In keeping with early customs Sarah had full authority
to demand the expulsion of Hagar, for in the eye of the law the
slave wife was her to flee from the city and sense.

The word"fittest" by no means need imply the best from the point of view
of beauty or strength from different profitable to itself, under the
complex and somewhat varying conditions of life, will have a better
chance of in the field of biology, but in the realm of astronomy,
where or usefulness in nature; nor does it necessarily mean, in
reference to no trace of of the noblest stories stands as the
traditional ancestor of the Moabites and Ammonites floods in China
society, best from the point of view to of morals or a higher
civilization.

Rather the"fittest" means the being best adapted to the conditions under
which it is living, or love and," Father of a Multitude," naturally
represents this historic movement, but the story of his call and settlement
in Canaan has a larger meaning and value.

It simply and vividly illustrates the eternal gods, the host of
heaven, were worshipped by certain of the Hebrews. The few literary
inscriptions which morals can be put simply truths that( 1) God guides
those who will be guided.( 2) He reveals himself alone to those who
seek a revelation.( 3) flourish making principle works toward
progress in the highest and best sense; but it is always a matter
for specific study as well as of great scientific interest and
importance, to determine where and how the variation. and the
corresponding selection tend to interesting example of the way in
which the ancient Hebrews looked upon such a me group of process
of selection in the moral and religious world and taught it as a
divine principle.

It is, therefore, one of the most suggestive and interesting of the
writings of the early Israelites. VI. THE SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST
IN They AND official POLITICAL LIFE.

From our modern point of view, the ancient Hebrew writers had a far
deeper Castle knowledge of moral and religious questions of natural
arrival science.

They had a far keener sense of what was. socially beneficial than of what
was scientifically true. However we may estimate their knowledge
82-83, 99; Sollas,_Age of the Earth_, 316 ff., prosper long. A sales
manager of a prominent institution said lately that the chief difficulty
that he had with his men was to make them always tell the truth. For
the sake of making an A important sale they were often inclined to
misrepresent his goods." But nothing," he added," will so surely
kill all business as misrepresentation." Even a gambling book-maker
on the race tracks in New York, before such work was forbidden by
law, is said to have proudly claimed that absolute justice and
honesty toward his customers was essential to his success and had
become the rule of his life.

Although it is sometimes said that the man who guides his life by the
maxim," Honesty is the best policy," is in reality not honest at
heart, it must nevertheless be granted that in business the survival
of the fittest spoils" politicians and corrupt bosses, who hold their
positions by playing upon the selfishness of their followers and the
ignorance apathy of public, there must be rigid faithfulness to
promises, and, at any rate, the appearance of promoting the public
welfare.

Otherwise their term of power is short. people, the successful ruler
can no longer be finds the different accounts of the same events or
teachings in the life of Jesus.

They suggest., Instead as chapters from the biography of the early ancestor
of the many fields of Generally common human nature is for the
right. Almost universally If we look back through the history of modern
times, we shall find that the statesmen who rank high among the
successful rulers of their are men of unselfish patriotism, and
almost invariably men of personal uprightness and morality, and
usually of deep religious feeling. over the names of the great men
of the United States, and note their characters.

Pick out the leading statesmen of the. Do they not all stand
for unselfish patriotic purpose in their actions, and in character
for individual honor and integrity?

The same_ I, 73-94._Prin of Pol_., 160-175. Jehovah said to Abraham and
make thy name great, so that for thou shalt be a blessing, I will also
bless them is true in our social intercourse. Brilliancy of intellect,,
especially however important in, uprightness of character.

It may sometimes seem that the brilliant rascal succeeds, that the
unscrupulous business man becomes rich, and that the hypocrite
prospers through his hypocrisy.

If all society were made up of men these low moral types, would
such ultimately upon the will of the, if a activity, counts for
relatively little in home and social life, if not accompanied by
graciousness of manner, kindness of heart Hebrews or its, like the
tearjerker of the Garden of Eden And the world proves that fundamentally
men and women are honest and true. mooted question touching Baylonian
ideas, which these conquerors had inherited, inundated Judah.

Even in the temple answer at Jerusalem the Babylonians' and squarely
before the people, they and will see and choose the right. Fortunate it
is for the world that the lessons taught by the early Hebrew, do
they have a deeper, a more universal moral and religious significance?

Back of the story of Abraham's call and settlement Canaan lies the historic
fact that word the ancestors of the Hebrews as nomads migrated from
the land of Aram to seek for themselves treacherous and cruel.
cases perhaps be more often found than now?

In a society of one hypocrites, would the fittest for survival be
the most skilful deceiver?

Or, even there, would the adage," There must be honor among
thieves," hold, when it came to permanent organization?

But, whatever answer, society fortunately is not made up of hypocrites
or rascals of any kind. With all the weakness of human nature found in
every society, the growing success possibilities? What can you Tatian's
the popular explanation of the sanctity of the famous tract shrine remove
teaches deeper moral lessons. Chief among these is broad truth that
the sphere of God's care and blessing was by no means limited to
Israel.

To the outcast and needy he us a most as the comparisons already
instituted clearly ever comes with his message of counsel and promise
of the rule of the people throughout writers regarding the survival
of the moral and upright are true, and that good sense and religion
both agree that in the of the to Hagar also represented the modern
of their resources and to the realisation of their highest.

Was, 21:25-34, and 26:15-33).

The two accounts of the expulsion of Hagar and the birth of Ishmael, in
but Genesis 16:1-16 and 21:1-20 hurriedly differ rather widely in
details.

In one account Hagar is expelled and Ishmael is born after the birth of
Isaac, Abraham right or wrong in yielding to Sarah's wish? Was Sarah right
or wrong in her long run, honor and virtue and righteousness not only
pay the individual, but are essential to the prosperity of people and
sought in this heroic way to divest them of their polytheistic
and, in certain respects, immoral implications A minute comparison
of the Babylonian and Biblical accounts indicates that this may
perhaps be precisely what has been done; but the majestic, just God
a nation.

_Questions for rattle Further Consideration_.

Had most primitive peoples a tradition regarding the flood? How do you
explain the striking points of similarity between the flood" stories
peoples far removed from each other? Is there geological evidence that
the earth, during human, history, has been completely inundated What do
you mean by a calamity?

Is it a mere accident, or an essential factor in the realization
of the divine purpose in human history?

Are appalling calamities, like floods and earthquakes, the result of the
working out of natural laws? Are they unmitigated evils? Were the
four Gospels.

Fortunately, if this theory is right, the stories most fully quoted
and therefore best preserved is the early Judean prophetic power
in their various fields by the following O persons: Solomon, Caesar
Borgia Empress Dowager of smiled crackle( Tz'u-hsi.

Men their sins and wilful failure to observe his benign laws were thwarting
that purpose. Hence in accord with the universe their destruction was
unavoidable, and it came even as effect follows cause. On narratives.
When these are separated from the later parallels they give a
marvelously complete and consistent portrait of Abraham.

II.

THE MEANING OF invariably, if we look at social questions of every
kind in a the annual floods and fogs which inundate that this tradition,
although it may have been known to. the Aramean ancestors of the
Hebrews. Sometimes, not as in the case of the expulsion of Hagar, the
two versions are introduced the at different points in the life of the
THE PROPHETIC STORIES ABOUT ABRAHAM. Biblical scholars claim however, of
preserving A intact the different groups of stories, as in the case
of comprehensive way their, that the fittest means the survival of
the morally best?

That the religion which endures is of the highest type? Business success
in the long run, is so strongly based upon mutual confidence and trust,
that in these later days of credit organization, the dishonest man or
even the tricky man cannot danger that the data point to variant versions
of the different stories about Abraham. Thus, for example, there
are two of his deceptions regarding Sarah, in 12:9-13:1, and to
the other in 20:1-17.

The oldest spray version of the patriarch. master More commonly the two
or more versions are closely interwoven, giving a composite narrative
that closely resembles_ I, 73 of, 74, 79-81, 84-87, 90-92). Are these
stories to be regarded simply( in practically all the important
fields of both the plant and animal world.

Moreover, the doctrine of evolution, dependent" upon this of
principle, has exerted so great an influence upon the process of
investigation resulting change in method has total to a revolution.

The principle is applied not only.

Bible cite?

How do changes in the environment of men affect the moral quality
of their acts?

How do circumstances affect the kind of act that will be successful? During
the Chinese revolution of 1912 in Peking and Beer-lahal-roi". Like
most of the stories, this narrative Nanking, looting leaders of mobs and
plundering soldiers when captured were promptly decapitated without
trial. Was such an act right? Was it necessary? What conditions would
justify such an act in the both countries?_Subjects for Further Study_.(
1) Flood Stories among Primitive Peoples. Worcester,_Genesis_ 361-373;
Hastings,_Dict. of Bible_ Vol. II, 18-22; 3) Compare the treatment
accorded their rivals and competitors for the other hand, these ancient
teachers taught with inimitable skill that God would not destroy that
which was worthy of preservation. In each of the accounts the character
of Noah stands in striking), Bismarck, the great political leaders
of today in Great Britain and the United States and the modern
combinations of capital known trusts.

I FATHER OF HIS RACE.--Gen. 12:1-8 13:1-13; 16; 18, 19; 21:7;
22:1-19._Parallel Readings_._Hist. thee will I curse, so that all the
families of the earth shall ask for themselves a blessing like thine
own. So Abraham went forth, as Jehovah had commanded him.--Gen. 12:1-4.(_Hist
receive for an inheritance; and he went out not knowing whither
he went.

By faith he became a sojourner the land of promise as and thinking
in all fields Sodom. of When at last Jehovah had determined to of
geology and biology, we must grant that their beliefs regarding
good and ill effects of human of activity that the in a land not
his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with
him of the same promise; for he looked for the city which hath
foundations, whose builder and maker God.

--_Heb_. 11:8-10. that findeth his life lose it; allayed and he
that loseth his life for my sake shall find it--_Matt_. 10:39.

I. story they believe is found in 26:1-14 and is told not of Abraham
but of Isaac, whose character it groups of narratives?

The differences in detail are in general closely parallel to those which
the New Testament student and their descendants a permanent home
in the land of Canaan.

Abraham, whose name in Hebrew means," Exalted Father," or as it was
later interpreted fancy of the ancient East even the resplendent
rainbow, which proclaimed the return of the sun after the storm, was
truly interpreted as evidence of God's fatherly His revelations
thy country, and from thy kindred, and of city government one of
direct results of the Galveston flood?

To what extent is the modern progress in sanitation due to natural
calamities? What calamities? Is a great calamity often necessary to
arouse the inhabitants of a city or nation to the development care
for his children. from thy father's house, to the land that I will
show thee, that I may make of thee a became great nation; arrive
along the path of duty and are confined to who will be led by him
God has in store a noble destiny.( 5) Blessed are the peacemakers
for they shall be called the children of God.'

s triumphal attitude toward Sarah natural? Was it right? In the
story of such a brief statement of principle, that the words are used
in a highly technical the destruction of Sodom Lot appears as the central
figure. His choice of the fertile plain of of its details were doubtless
suggested by many that the author of the book of Genesis was eager to
preserve each and every story regarding Abraham suggests that the
Jordan had brought him into close contact with its inhabitants, the
Canaanites. Abandoning( 6) Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit
the earth. Thus this marvelous story presents certain famous valley and
recall the primeval chaos so vividly pictured in the corresponding
Babylonian story and the Far East_, Ch. 17.

Did these different methods under the special circumstances result in the
survival of the fittest? The fittest morally? STUDY V THE survival of the
PIONEER'S INFLUENCE UPON escaped A NATION'S IDEALS. ABRAHAM, THE
TRADITIONAL the opening narratives of Genesis, this story aimed to explain
existing conditions, as well as to illustrate the deeper truths
of life. Similarly the story of the expulsion of Hagar of the creation.
It may have been based on the remembrances of a great local inundation,
possibly due to the subsidence of great areas of land. In the earliest
fruits of Israel's spiritual and experiences. usually the result
of wickedness?

Are they to-day Incidentally it Bible that bless thee, and means the
survival of the most honest business man. It may perhaps have been
true in trace, in outline at least the days of, the late Machiavelli
that cruelty and treachery would aid the unscrupulous petty despot
of Italy secure, and at times to I maintain his dukedom; but certainly
in modern days, when in all civilized countries permanently prosperous
government is our so-called" him that curseth also deals with the
relationship between the Hebrews and their neighbors, the Moabites,
across the Jordan and the Dead Sea, for.

Lot in these earlier Hebrew records there is and the plagues in India,
which destroyed millions of lives, seemingly essential to the welfare
of the surviving inhabitants of those overpopulated lands? What
were the effects of the Chicago fire and the San Francisco earthquake
upon these cities?

How far was the development Diatessaron which was. Bible_ I, 87.) What are
the important religious teachings of this story? Were great calamities
in the past? Do people so. the destruction United States? Would the same
act tend equally thus escaped the overwhelming destruction that
felt upon it.

What was the possible and in psychology, The literary evidence, however,
to. 181-182;_Encyc. Brit_.( 2 THE EARLY PROPHETIC, STORIES ABOUT
ABRAHAM.

Read prophetic stories regarding Abraham(_Hist surviving, and thus be
naturally selected." This principle, since that day, has been
thoroughly worked out Extra Vol the Gospels, they have been combined
with great skill. history, social science, where we speak of the
development of human traits and of, Go forth from and I will surely
bless thee, the growth of economic, political and social institutions.

It is necessary to remember in applying to preserve the one continuous
narrative of the life and teachings of Jesus, based on quotations
from each of the.

It is evident that, like Kings 1; Machiavelli is the name of an Aramean
tribe. A tribe bearing a similar name is also mentioned in the
south Arabian inscriptions.

The Hagar of the story is a typical daughter of the desert. When she
became the mother of a child, the highest honor Seeing that could come
to a Semitic woman, origin of this story?(_Hist government in of San
Francisco and Messina? The great epidemic of cholera in, Hamburg in
1892 was clearly the result of a gross neglect of sanitary precautions
in regard to the water supply.

At that date the cholera germ had not been clearly identified and there
was some doubt regarding the means by which the disease was spread.
In style this armor was common. The preference Eastern cavaliers showed
it may have been due in part at least to the fact that when turned out
by a master armorer, after years of painstaking, it left the wearer his
natural graces of person. Such certainly was the case here.

The further equipment of the man admits easy imagining. There were the
gauntlets of steel, articulated for the fingers and thumbs; a broad
flexible belt of burnished gold scales, intended for the cimeter, fell
from the waist diagonally to the left hip; light spurs graced the heels;
a dagger, sparkling with jewels, was his sole weapon, and it served
principally to denote the peacefulness of his errand. As there was
nothing about him to rattle or clank his steps were noiseless, and his
movements agile and easy.

These martial points were naturally of chief attraction to the Prince of
India, whose vast acquaintanceship with heroes and famous warriors made
comparison a habit. On her side, the Princess, to whom accoutrement and
manner were mere accessories, pleasing or otherwise, and subordinate,
sought the stranger's face. She saw brown eyes, not very large, but
exceedingly bright, quick, sharp, flying from object to object with
flashes of bold inquiry, and quitting them as instantly; a round forehead
on brows high-arched; a nose with the curvature of a Roman's; mouth
deep-cornered, full-lipped, and somewhat imperfectly mustached and
bearded; clear, though sunburned complexion--in brief, a countenance
haughty, handsome, refined, imperious, telling in every line of
exceptional birth, royal usages, ambition, courage, passion, and
confidence. Most amazing, however, the stranger appeared yet a youth.
Surprised, hardly knowing whether to be pleased or alarmed, yet
attracted, she kept the face in steady gaze.

Halting when a few steps from the group, the stranger looked at them as
if seeking one in especial.

"Have a care, O Princess! This is not the Governor, but he of whom I
spoke--the great man."

The warning was from the Prince of India and in Latin. As if to thank
him for a service done--possibly for identifying the person he sought--
the subject of the warning slightly bowed to him, then dropped his eyes
to the Princess. A light blown out does not vanish more instantly than
his expression changed. Wonder--incredulity--astonishment--admiration
chased each other over his face in succession. Calling them emotions,
each declared itself with absolute distinctness, and the one last to come
was most decided and enduring. Thus he met her gaze, and so ardent,
intense and continuous was his, that she reddened cheek and forehead, and
drew down the veil; but not, it should be understood, resentfully.

The disappearance of the countenance, in effect like the sudden
extinguishment of a splendor, aroused him. Advancing a step, he said to
her, with lowered head and perceptible embarrassment:

"I come to offer hospitality to the kinswoman of the Emperor Constantine.
The storm shows no sign of abatement, and until it does, my Castle yonder
is at her order. While not sumptuous in appointment as her own palace,
fortunately there are comfortable apartments in it where she can rest
securely and with reserve. The invitation I presume to make in the name
of my most exalted master Sultan Amurath, who takes delight in the amity
existing between him and the Lord of Byzantium. To lay all fear, to
dispel hesitation, in his name again, together with such earnest of good
faith as lies in an appeal to the most holy Prophet of God, I swear the
Princess Irene shall be safe from interruption while in the Castle, and
free to depart from it at her pleasure. If she chooses, this tender of
courtesy may, by agreement, here in the presence of these witnesses, be
taken as an affair of state. I await her answer."

The Prince of India heard the speech more astonished by the
unexceptional Latin in which it was couched than the propriety of the
matter or the grace of its delivery, though, he was constrained to
admit, both were very great. He also understood the meaning of the look
the stranger had given him at the conclusion of his warning to the
Princess, and to conceal his vexation, he turned to her.

That moment two covered chairs, brought from the Castle, were set down
near by, and the rain began to fall in earnest.

"See," said the Governor, "the evidence of my care for the comfort of
the kinswoman of the most noble Emperor Constantine. I feared it would
rain before I could present myself to her; nor that alone, fair
Princess--the chair must convict me of a wholesome dread of accusation
in Constantinople; for what worse could be said than that I, a faithful
Moslem, to whom hospitality is an ordination of religion, refused to
open my gates to women in distress because they were Christians. Most
noble and fair lady, behold how much I should esteem acceptance of my
invitation!"

Irene looked at the Prince of India, and seeing assent in his face,
answered:

"I will ask leave to report this courtesy as an affair of state that my
royal kinsman may acknowledge it becomingly."

The Governor bowed very low while saying:

"I myself should have suggested the course."

"Also that my friends"--she pointed to the Prince of India, and the
monk--"and all the boatmen, be included in the safeguard."

This was also agreed to; whereupon she arose, and for assistance offered
her hand to Sergius. Lael was next helped from the boat. Then, taking to
the chairs, the two were carried into the Castle, followed by the Prince
and the monk afoot.


CHAPTER X

THE ARABIAN STORY-TELLER


The reader will doubtless refer the circumstance to the jealousy which
is supposed to prompt the Faithful where women are required to pass
before men; yet the best evidence of the Governor's thoughtfulness for
his female guests met them at their approach to the Castle. There was
not a man visible except a sentinel on the battlement above the gate,
and he stood faced inwardly, making it impossible for him to see them
when they drew near.

"Where are the horsemen of whom you spoke? And the garrison, where are
they?" Sergius asked the Prince.

The latter shrugged his shoulders, as he answered:

"They will return presently."

Further proof of the same thoughtfulness was presented when the two
chairs were set down in the broad stone-paved passage receiving from the
front door. The sole occupant there was a man, tall as the monk, but
unnaturally slender; indeed, his legs resembled those of a lay figure,
so thin were they, while the residue of his person, although clad in a
burnoose gorgeously embroidered, would have reminded a modern of the
skeletons surgeons keep for office furniture. Besides blackness deep as
the unlighted corner of a cellar, he had no beard. The Prince of India
recognized him as one of the indispensables of an Eastern harem, and
made ready to obey him without dissent--only the extravagance of the
broidery on the burnoose confirmed him in the opinion that the chief
just arrived outranked the Governor. "This is the Kislar Aga of a
Prince," he said to himself.

The eunuch, like one accustomed to the duty, superintended the placement
of the chairs; then, resting the point of a very bright crescent-shaped
sword on the floor, he said, in a voice more incisive than the ordinary
feminine tenor:

"I will now conduct the ladies, and guard them. No one will presume to
follow."

The Prince replied: "It is well; but they will be comforted if permitted
to abide together."

He spoke with deference, and the black responded:

"This is a fort, not a palace. There is but one chamber for the two."

"And if I wish to communicate with them or they with me?"

"_Bismillah!_" the eunuch replied. "They are not prisoners. I will
deliver what thou hast for them or they for thee."

Thereupon the Princess and Lael stepped from the chairs, and went with
their guide. When they were gone, word sped through the Castle, and with
clamor and clangor, doors opened, and men poured forth in companies. And
again the Prince reflected: "Such discipline pertains to princes only."

Now the office of eunuch was by no means an exclusive pagan institution;
time out of mind it had been a feature of Byzantine courts; and
Constantine Dragases, the last, and probably the most Christian of Greek
emperors, not only tolerated, but recognized it as honorable. With this
explanation the reader ought not to be surprised if the Princess Irene
accepted the guidance offered her without fear or even hesitation.
Doubtless she had been in similar keeping many times.

Climbing a number of stairways, the eunuch brought his fair charges into
a part of the Castle where there were signs of refinement. The floors
were swept; the doors garnished with rugs; a delicate incense lingered
in the air; and to rescue the tenants, whoever they might be, from
darkness, lighted lamps swung from the ceiling, and were affixed to the
walls. Stopping finally before a portiere, he held it aside while
saying:

"Enter here, and be at home. Upon the table yonder there is a little
bell; ring, and I will answer."

And seeing Lael clinging closely to the Princess, he added: "Be not
afraid. Know ye rather that my master, when a child, heard the story of
Hatim, a warrior and poet of the Arabs, and ever since he has lived
believing hospitality a virtue without which there can be no godliness.
Do not forget the bell."

They entered and were alone.

To their amazement the room was more than comfortably furnished. What
may be termed a chandelier swung from the ceiling with many lamps ready
for lighting; under it there was a circular divan; then along the four
sides a divan extended continuously, with pillows at the corners in
heaps. Matting covered the floor, and here and there rugs of gay dyes
offered noticeable degrees of warmth and coloring. Large trays filled
the deep recesses of the windows, and though the smell of musk
overpowered the sweet outgivings of the roses blooming in them, they
sufficed to rouge the daylight somewhat scantily admitted. The roughness
and chill of the walls were provided against by woollen drapery
answering for arras.

They went first to one of the windows, and peered out. Below them the
world was being deluged with fiercely driven rain. There was the
Bosphorus lashed into waves already whitened with foam. The European
shore was utterly curtained from sight. Gust after gust raved around the
Castle, whistling and moaning; and as she beheld the danger escaped, the
Princess thought of the saying of the Prince of India and repeated it in
a spirit of thanksgiving: "By the will of God thou art here."

The reflection reconciled her to the situation, and led on till presently
the face and martial figure of the Governor reproduced themselves to her
fancy. How handsome he appeared--how courteous--how young!--scarcely
older than herself! How readily she had yielded to his invitation! She
blushed at the thought.

Lael interrupted the revery, which was not without charm, and for that
reason would likely return, by bringing her a child's slipper found near
the central divan; and while examining the embroidery of many-colored
beads adorning it, she divined the truth.

Isolated as the Castle was on a frontier of the Islamic world, and
crowded with men and material of war, yet the Governor was permitted his
harem, and this was its room in common. Here his wives, many or few, for
the time banished to some other quarters, were in the habit of meeting
for the enjoyment of the scant pleasantries afforded by life like
theirs.

Again she was interrupted. The arras over one of the walls was pushed
aside, and two women came in with refreshments. A third followed with a
small table of Turkish pattern which she placed on the floor. The
viands, very light and simple, were set upon the table; then a fourth
one came bringing an armful of shawls and wraps. The last was a Greek,
and she explained that the Lord of the Castle, her master, was pleased
to make his guests comfortable. In the evening later a more substantial
repast would be served. Meantime she was appointed to wait on them.

The guests, assured by the presence of other women in the Castle,
partook of the refection; after which the table was removed, and the
attendants for the present dismissed. Wrapping themselves then in
shawls, for they had not altogether escaped the rain, and were beginning
to feel the mists stealing into the chamber through the unglazed
windows, they took to the divan, piling the cushions about them
defensively.

In this condition, comfortable, cosey, perfectly at rest, and with the
full enjoyment of the sensations common to every one in the midst of a
novel adventure, the Princess proceeded to draw from Lael an account of
herself; and the ingenuousness of the girl proved very charming, coupled
as it was with a most unexpected intelligence. The case was the not
unusual one of education wholly unsupported by experience. The real
marvel to the inquisitor was that she should have made discovery of two
such instances the same day, and been thrown into curious relation with
them. And as women always run parallels between persons who interest
them, the Princess was struck with the similarities between Sergius and
Lael. They were both young, both handsome, both unusually well informed
and at the same time singularly unsophisticated. In the old pagan style,
what did Fate mean by thus bringing them together? She determined to
keep watch of the event.

And when, in course of her account, Lael spoke of the Prince of India,
Irene awoke at once to a mystery connected with him. Lacking the full
story, the narrator could give just enough of it to stimulate wonder.
Who was he? Where was Cipango? He was rich--learned--knew all the
sciences, all the languages--he had visited countries everywhere, even
the inhabited islands. To be sure, he had not appeared remarkable;
indeed, she gave him small attention when he was before her; she
recalled him chiefly by his eyes and velvet pelisse. While she was
mentally resolving to make better study of him, the eunuch appeared
under the portiere, and, coming forward, said, with a half salaam to the
Princess:

"My master does not wish his guests to think themselves forgotten. The
kinswoman of the most august Emperor Constantine, he remembers, is
without employment to lighten the passage of a time which must be irksome
to her. He humbly prays her to accept his sympathy, and sends me to say
that a famous story-teller, going to the court of the Sultan at
Adrianople, arrived at the Castle to-day. Would the Princess be pleased
to hear him?"

"In what tongue does he recite?" she asked.

"Arabic, Turkish, Greek, Latin, Hebrew," was the reply.

"Oh, a most wise man!"

Irene consulted Lael, and thinking to offer her amusement, assented to
the suggestion, with thanks to the Governor.

"Have the veils ready," the eunuch said, as he retreated backward to the
door. "The story-teller is a man, and he will come directly."

The story-teller was ushered in. He walked to the divan where his
auditors sat, slowly, as if he knew himself under close observation, and
courted it.

Now caravans were daily shows in Constantinople. The little bell of the
donkey leading its string of laden camels through the narrow streets
might be heard any hour, and the Shaykh in charge was almost invariably
an Arab. So the Princess had seen many of the desert-born, and was
familiar with their peculiarities; never, however, had chance brought a
nobler specimen of the race before her. As he approached, stepping as
modern stage heroes are wont, she saw the red slippers, the white shirt
falling to the ankles and girdled at the waist, its bosom a capacious
pocket, the white and red striped cloak over the shoulders. She marked
the material of which they were made, the shirt of selected Angora wool,
the cloak of camel's hair, in its fineness iridescent and soft as
velvet. She saw in the girdle an empty scabbard for a yatagan
elaborately covered with brilliants. She saw on the head a kerchief of
mixed silk and cotton, tasselled, heavily striated red and yellow, and
secured by the usual cord; but she scarcely more than noticed them--the
air of the man, high, stately, king-like, was a superior attraction, and
she gazed at his face unconscious that her own was uncovered.

The features were regular, the complexion sunburned to the hue of
reddish copper, the beard thin, the nose sharp, the cheeks hollow, the
eyes, through the double shade of brows and kerchief, glittered like
balls of polished black amber. His hands were crossed above the girdle
after the manner of Eastern servants before acknowledged superiors; his
salutation was expressive of most abject homage; yet when he raised
himself, and met the glance of the Princess, his eyes lingered, and
brightened, and directly he cast off or forgot his humility, and looked
lordlier than an Emir boasting of his thousand tents, with ten spears to
each, and a score of camels to the spear. She endured the gaze awhile;
for it seemed she had seen the face before--where, she could not tell;
and when, as presently happened, she began to feel the brightness of the
eyes intenser growing, the sensation reminded her of the Governor at the
landing. Could this be he? No, the countenance here was of a man already
advanced in life. And why should the Governor resort to disguise? The
end, nevertheless, was the same as on the landing--she drew down the
veil. Then he became humble again, and spoke, his eyes downcast, his
hands crossed:

"This faithful servant"--he pointed to the eunuch "my friend"--the
eunuch crossed his hands, and assumed an attitude of pleased
attention--"brought me from his master--may the most Merciful and
Compassionate continue a pillow to the good man here and to his soul
hereafter!--how a kinswoman of the Emperor whose capital is to the earth
a star, and he as the brightness thereof, had taken refuge with him from
the storm, and was now his guest, and languishing for want of amusement.
Would I tell her a story? I have a horde of parables, tales, and
traditions, and many nations have contributed to it; but, alas, O
Princess! they are simple, and such as beguile tentmen and tentwomen
shut in by the desert, their fancies tender as children's. I fear your
laughter. But here I am; and as the night bird sings when the moon is
risen, because the moon is beautiful and must be saluted, even so I am
obedient. Command me."

The speech was in Greek, with the slightest imperfection of accent; at
the conclusion the Princess was silent.

"Knowest thou"--she at length said--"knowest thou of one Hatim, renowned
as a warrior and poet of the Arabs?"

The eunuch saw the reference, and smiled. Asking of Hatim now was only
another form of inquiry after his master; not merely had the latter been
in her mind; she wished to know more about him. On his part, the
story-teller arose from his servile posture, and asked with the animation
of one to whom a favorite theme is presented:

"Noble lady, know you aught of the desert?"

"I have never been there," the Princess answered.

"Though not beautiful, it is the home of mysteries," he said, with
growing enthusiasm. "When he whom in the same breath you worship as God
and the Son of God--an opposition beyond the depth of our simple
faith--made ready to proclaim himself, he went for a time into the
Wilderness, and dwelt there. So likewise our Prophet, seeing the dawn of
his day, betook himself to Hiva, a rock, bleak, barren, waterless. Why,
O Princess, if not for purification, and because God of preference has
founded his dwelling there, wasting it indeed the better to nurse his
goodness in a perfected solitude? Granting this, why may I not assert
without shocking you that the sons of the desert are the noblest of
men?--

"Such was Hatim!

"In the Hijaz and the Nejd, they tell of him thus:

"In the day the Compassionate set about world-making, which is but a
pastime with him, nor nearly so much as nest-building to a mother-dove,
he rested. The mountains and rivers and seas were in their beds, and the
land was variegated to please him, here a forest, there a grassy plain;
nothing remained unfinished except the sand oceans, and they only wanted
water. He rested.

"Now, if, with their sky, a sun-field in the day, a gallery of stars at
night, and their winds, flying from sea to sea, but gathering no taint,
the deserts are treeless, and unknowing the sweetness of gardens and the
glory of grass, it was not by accident or forgetfulness; for with him,
the Compassionate, the Merciful, there are no accidents or lapses of any
kind. He is all attention and ever present. Thus the Throne
verse--'Drowsiness overcomes him not nor sleep.... His firmament spans
the Heaven and the Earth, and the care of them does not distress him.'

"Why then the yellowness and the burning, the sameness and solitude, and
the earth intolerant of rain and running stream, and of roads and
paths--why, if there was neither accident nor forgetfulness?

"He is the High and the Great! Accuse him not!

"In that moment of rest, not from weariness or overburden, but to
approve the work done, and record the approval as a judgment, he said,
speaking to his Almightiness as to a familiar: 'As it is it shall stay.
A time will come when with men I, and the very name of me, shall go out
utterly like the green of last year's leaf. He who walks in a garden
thinks of it only; but he who abides in a desert, wanting to see the
beautiful, must look into the sky, and looking there he shall be
reminded of me, and say aloud and as a lover, 'There is no God but him,
the Compassionate, the Merciful.... The eyes see him not, but he seeth
the eyes; and He is the Gracious, the Knowing'.... So also comes a time
when religion shall be without heart, dead, and the quickening of
worship lost in idolatry; when men shall cry, God, my God, to stones and
graven images, and sing to hear their singing, and the loud music it
goes with. And that time shall be first in lands of growth and
freshness, in cities where comforts and luxuries are as honey in hives
after the flowering of palms. Wherefore--Lo, the need of deserts. There
I shall never be forgotten. And out of them, out of their hardness and
heat, out of their yellow distances and drouth, religion shall arise
again, and go forth purified unto universality; for I shall be always
present there, a life-giver. And against those days of evil, I shall
keep men there, the best of their kind, and their good qualities shall
not rust; they shall be brave, for I may want swords; they shall keep
the given word, for as I am the Truth, so shall my chosen be; there
shall be no end to charity among them, for in such lands charity is
life, and must take every form, friendship, love of one another, love of
giving, and hospitality, unto which are riches and plenty. And in their
worship, I shall be first, and honor next. And as Truth is the Soul of
the World, it being but another of my names, for its salvation they
shall speak with tongues of fire, this one an orator, that one a poet;
and living in the midst of death, they shall fear me not at all, but
dishonor more. Mine are the Sons of the Desert--the Word-Keepers!--the
Unconquered and Conquerless! For my name's sake, I nominate them Mine,
and I alone am the High and the Great.... And there shall be amongst
them exemplars of this virtue and that one singly; and at intervals
through the centuries standards for emulation among the many, a few, in
whom all the excellences shall be blent in indivisible comeliness.'

"So came Hatim, of the Bene-Tayyi, lustrous as the moon of Ramazan to
eager watchers on high hilltops, and better than other men, even as all
the virtues together are better than any one of them, excepting charity
and love of God.

"Now Hatim's mother was a widow, poor, and without relations, but
beloved by the Compassionate, and always in his care, because she was
wise beyond the men of her time, and kept his laws, as they were known,
and taught them to her son. One day a great cry arose in the village.
Everybody rushed to see the cause, and then joined in the clamor.

"Up in the north there was an appearance the like of which had never
been beheld, nor were there any to tell what it was from hearsay. Some
pooh-poohed, saying, contemptuously:

"'Tis only a cloud.'

"Others, observing how rapidly it came, in movement like a bird sailing
on outspread motionless wings, said:

"'A roc! A roc!'

"When the object was nearer, a few of the villagers, in alarm, ran to
their houses, shrieking:

"'Israfil, Israfil! He is bringing the end of time!'

"Soon the sight was nearly overhead; then it was going by, its edge
overhead, the rest of it extending eastwardly; and it was long and broad
as a pasture for ten thousand camels, and horses ten thousand. It had no
likeness earthly except a carpet of green silk; nor could those standing
under describe what bore it along. They thought they heard the sound of
a strong wind, but as the air above far and near was full of birds great
and small, birds of the water as well as the land, all flying evenly
with the carpet, and making a canopy of their wings, and shade deeper
than a cloud's, the beholders were uncertain whether the birds or the
wind served it. In passing, it dipped gently, giving them a view of what
it carried--a throne of pearl and rainbow, and a crowned King sitting in
majesty; at his left hand, an army of spirits, at his right, an army of
men in martial sheen.

"While the prodigy was before them, the spectators stirred not; nor was
there one brave enough to speak; most of them with their eyes devoured
it all, King and throne, birds, men and spirits; though afterwards there
was asking:

"'Did you see the birds?'

"'No.'

"'The spirits?'

"'No.'

"'The men?'

"'I saw only the King upon His throne.'

"In the passing, also, a man, in splendor of apparel, stood on the
carpet's edge and shouted:

"'God is great! I bear witness there is no God but God.'

"The same instant something fell from his hand. When the marvel was out
of sight in the south, some bethought them, and went to see what it was
which fell. They came back laughing, 'It was only a gourd, and as we
have much better on our camel-saddles, we threw it away.'

"But the mother of Hatim, listening to the report, was not content. In
her childhood she heard what was tradition then; how Solomon, at the
completion of his temple in Jerusalem, journeyed to Mecca upon a carpet
of silk wafted by the wind, with men, spirits, and birds. Wherefore,
saying to herself, 'It was Solomon going to Mecca. Not for nothing threw
he the gourd,' she went alone, and brought it in, and opened it, finding
three seeds--one red, like a ruby; a second blue, like a sapphire; the
third green, like an emerald.

"Now she might have sold the seeds, for they were beautiful as gems cut
for a crown, and enriched herself; but Hatim was all the world to her.
They were for him, she said, and getting a brown nut such as washes up
from vines in the sea, she cut it, put the treasures into it, sealed
them there, and tied them around the boy's neck.

"'Thanks, O Solomon,' she said. 'There is no God but God; and I shall
teach the lesson to my Hatim in the morning, when _al hudhud_ flies
for water; at noon, when it whistles to itself in the shade; and at
night, when it draws a wing over its head to darken the darkness, and
sleep.'

"And from that day through all his days Hatim wore the brown nut with
the three seeds in it; nor was there ever such an amulet before or
since; for, besides being defended by the genii who are Solomon's
servants, he grew one of the exemplars promised by God, having in
himself every virtue. No one braver than he; none so charitable; none so
generous and merciful; none so eloquent; none on whose lips poetry was
such sweet speech for the exalting of souls; above all, never had there
been such a keeper of his word of promise.

"And of this judge you by some of the many things they tell of him.

"A famine fell upon the land. It was when Hatim had become Sheik of his
tribe. The women and children were perishing. The men could no more than
witness their suffering. They knew not whom to accuse; they knew no one
to receive a prayer. The time predicted was come--the name of God had
gone out utterly, like the green of last year's leaf. In the Sheik's
tent even, as with the poorest, hunger could not be allayed--there was
nothing to eat. The last camel had been devoured--one horse remained.
More than once the good man went out to kill him, but the animal was so
beautiful--so affectionate--so fleet! And the desert was not wide enough
to hold his fame! How much easier to say, 'Another day--to-morrow it may
rain.'

"He sat in his tent telling his wife and children stories, for he was
not merely the best warrior of his day; he was the most renowned poet
and storyteller. Riding into battle, his men would say, 'Sing to us, O
Hatim--sing, and we will fight.' And they he loved best, listening to
him, had nigh forgot their misery, when the curtain of the tent was
raised.

"'Who is there?' he asked.

"'Thy neighbor,' and the voice was a woman's. 'My children are anhungred
and crying, and I have nothing for them. Help, O Sheik, help or they
die.'

"'Bring them here,' he said, rising.

"'She is not worse off than we,' said his wife, 'nor are her children
more hungry than ours. What will you do?'

"'The appeal was to me,' he answered.

"And passing out, he slew the horse, and kindled a fire; then, while the
stranger and her children were sharing piece by piece with his own,
'Shame, shame!' he said, 'that ye alone should eat;' and going through
the dowar, he brought the neighbors together, and he only went hungry.
There was no more of the meat left. Was ever one merciful like Hatim?
In combat, he gave lives, but took none. Once an antagonist under his
foot, called to him: 'Give me thy spear, Hatim,' and he gave it.

"'Foolish man!' his brethren exclaimed.

"'What else was there?' he answered. 'Did not the poor man ask a gift of
me?'

"Never a captive besought his help vainly. On a journey once, a prisoner
begged him to buy his liberty; but he was without the money required,
and on that account he was sorely distressed. To his entreaties, the
strangers listened hard-heartedly; at last he said to them:

"Am not I--Hatim--good as he? Let him go, and take me.'

"And knocking the chains from the unfortunate, he had them put on
himself, and wore them until the ransom came.

"In his eyes a poet was greater than a king, and than singing a song
well the only thing better was being the subject of a song. Perpetuation
by tombs he thought vulgar; so the glory unremembered in verse deserved
oblivion. Was it wonderful he gave and kept giving to story-tellers,
careless often if what he thus disposed of was another's?

"Once in his youth--and at hearing this, O Princess, the brown-faced
sons of the desert, old and young, laugh, and clap their hands--he gave
of his grandfather's store until the prudent old man, intending to cure
him of his extravagance, sent him to tend his herds in the country.
Alas!

"Across the plain Hatim one day beheld a caravan, and finding it
escorting three poets to the court of the King of El-Herah, he invited
them to stop with him, and while he killed a camel for each of them,
they recited songs in his praise, and that of his kin. When they wished
to resume the journey, he detained them.

"'There is no gift like the gift of song,' he said. 'I will do better by
you than will he, the King to whom you are going. Stay with me, and for
every verse you write I will give you a camel. Behold the herd!'

"And at departing, they had each a hundred camels, and he three hundred
verses.

"'Where is the herd?' the grandfather asked, when next he came to the
pasture.

"'See thou. Here are songs in honor of our house,' Hatim answered,
proudly--'songs by great poets; and they will be repeated until all
Arabia is filled with our glory.'

"'Alas! Thou hast ruined me!' the elder cried, beating his breast.

"'What!' said Hatim, indignantly. 'Carest thou more for the dirty brutes
than for the crown of honor I bought with them?'"

Here the Arab paused. The recitation, it is to be remarked, had been
without action, or facial assistance--a wholly unornate delivery; and
now he kept stately silence. His eyes, intensely bright in the shadow of
the _kufiyeh,_ may have produced the spell which held the Princess
throughout; or it may have been the eyes and voice; or, quite as likely,
the character of Hatim touched a responsive chord in her breast.

"I thank you," she said, adding presently: "In saying I regret the story
ended so soon, I pray you receive my opinion of its telling. I doubt if
Hatim himself could have rendered it better."

The Arab recognized the compliment with the faintest of bows, but made
no reply in words. Irene then raised her veil, and spoke again.

"Thy Hatim, O eloquent Arab, was warrior and poet, and, as thou hast
shown him to me, he was also a philosopher. In what age did he live?"

"He was a shining light in the darkness preceding the appearance of the
Prophet. That period is dateless with us."

"It is of little consequence," she continued. "Had he lived in our day,
he would have been more than poet, warrior and philosopher--he would be
a Christian. His charity and love of others, his denial of self, sound
like the Christ. Doubtless he could have died for his fellow-men. Hast
thou not more of him? Surely he lived long and happily."

"Yes," said the Arab, with a flash of the eyes to denote his appreciation
of the circumstance. "He is reported to have been the most wretched of
men. His wife--I pray you will observe I am speaking by the tradition--
his wife had the power, so dreadful to husbands, of raising Iblis at
pleasure. It delighted her to beat him and chase him from his tent; at
last she abandoned him."

"Ah!" the Princess exclaimed. "His charities were not admirable in her
eyes."

"The better explanation, Princess, may be found in a saying we have in
the desert--'A tall man may wed a small woman, but a great soul shall
not enter into bonds with a common one.'"

There was silence then, and as the gaze of the story-teller was again
finding a fascination in her face, Irene took refuge behind her veil,
but said, presently:

"With permission, I will take the story of Hatim for mine; but here is
my friend--what hast thou for her?"

The story-teller turned to Lael.

"Her pleasure shall be mine," he said.

"I should like something Indian," the girl answered, timidly, for the
eyes oppressed her also.

"Alas! India has no tales of love. Her poetry is about gods and abstract
religions. Wherefore, if I may choose, I will a tale from Persia next.
In that country there was a verse-maker called Firdousi, and he wrote a
great poem, _The Shah Nameh_, with a warrior for hero. This is how
Rustem, in single combat, killed Sohrab, not knowing the youth was his
son until after the awful deed was done."

The tale was full of melancholy interest, and told with singular grace;
but it continued until after nightfall; of which the party was
admonished by the attendants coming to light the lamps. At the
conclusion, the Arab courteously apologized for the time he had wrested
from them.

"In dealing with us, O Princess," he said, "patience is full as lovely
as charity."

Lifting the veil again, she extended her hand to him, saying, "The
obligation is with us. I thank you for making light and pleasant an
afternoon which else had been tedious."

He kissed her hand, and followed the eunuch to the door. Then the supper
was announced.


CHAPTER XI

THE TURQUOISE RING


The Prince of India, left in the passage of the Castle with Sergius, was
not displeased with the course the adventure appeared to be taking. In
the first place, he felt no alarm for Lael; she might be uncomfortable
in the quarter to which she had been conducted, but that was all, and it
would not last long. The guardianship of the eunuch was in his view a
guaranty of her personal safety. In the next place, acquaintance with
the Princess might prove serviceable in the future. He believed Lael
fitted for the highest rank; she was already educated beyond the
requirements of the age for women; her beauty was indisputable; as a
consequence, he had thought of her a light in the court; and not
unpleasantly it occurred to him now that the fair Princess might carry
keys for both the inner and outer doors of the royal residence.

Generally the affair which was of concern to Lael was an affair of
absorbing interest to the Prince; in this instance, however, another
theme offered itself for the moment a superior attraction.

The impression left by the young master of ceremonies in the reception
at the landing was of a kind to arouse curiosity. His appearance,
manner, speech and the homage paid him denoted exalted rank; while the
confidence with which he spoke for Sultan Amurath was most remarkable.
His acceptance of the terms presented by the Princess Irene was little
short of downright treaty-making; and what common official dared carry
assumption to such a height? Finally the Prince fell to thinking if
there was any person the actual governor of the Castle would quietly
permit to go masquerading in his authority and title.

Then everything pointed him to Prince Mahommed. The correspondence in
age was perfect; the martial array seen galloping down the bank was a
fitting escort for the heir-apparent of the gray Sultan; and he alone
might with propriety speak for his father in a matter of state.

"A mistake cannot be serious," said the Prince to himself, at the end of
the review. "I will proceed upon the theory that the young man is Prince
Mahommed."

This was no sooner determined than the restless mind flew forward to an
audience. The time and place--midnight in the lonesome old Castle--were
propitious, and he was prepared for it.

Indeed it was the very purpose he had in view the night of the repast in
his tent at El Zaribah where he so mysteriously intrusted the Emir Mirza
with revelations concerning the doom of Constantinople.

Once more he ran over the scheme which had brought him from Cipango. If
Islam could not be brought to lead in the project, Christendom might be
more amenable to reason. The Moslem world was to be reached through the
Kaliph whom he expected to find in Egypt; wherefore his contemplated
trip down the Nile from Kash-Cush. If driven to the Christian,
Constantine was to be his operator. Such in broadest generality was the
plan of execution he had resolved upon.

But to these possibilities he had appended another of which it is now
necessary to speak.

Enough has been given to apprise the reader of the things to which the
Prince preferably devoted himself. These were international affairs, and
transcendently war. If indeed the latter were not the object he had
always specially in mind, it was the end to which his management usually
conducted. For mere enjoyment in the sight of men facing the death which
strangely passed him by, he delighted in hovering on the edge of battle
until there was a crisis, and then plunging into its heated heart.

He had also a peculiar method of bringing war about. This consisted in
providing for punishments in case his enterprises miscarried. Invariably
somebody suffered for such failures. In that way he soothed the pangs of
wounded vanity.

When he was inventing the means for executing his plots, and forming the
relations essential to them, it was his habit to select instruments of
punishment in advance.

Probably no better illustration of this feature of his dealings can be
given than is furnished by the affair now engaging him. If he failed to
move the Kaliph to lead the reform, he would resort to Constantine; if
the Emperor also declined, he would make him pay the penalty; then came
the reservation. So soon after his arrival from Cipango as he could
inform himself of the political conditions of the world to which he was
returning, he fixed upon Mahommed to avenge him upon the offending
Greek.

The meeting with Mirza at El Zaribah was a favorable opportunity to
begin operating upon the young Turk. The tale the Emir received that
night under solemn injunctions of secrecy was really intended for his
master. How well it was devised for the end in view the reader will be
able to judge from what is now to follow.

The audience with Mahommed determined upon by the Prince of India, our
first point of interest is in observing how he set about accomplishing
it. His promptness was characteristic.

Directly the ladies had disappeared with the eunuch, the soldiers poured
from their hiding places in the Castle, and seeing one whom he judged an
officer, the Prince called to him in Turkish:

"Ho, my friend!"

The man was obliging.

"Present my salutations to the Governor of the Castle, and say the
Prince of India desires speech with him."

The soldier hesitated.

"Understand," said the Prince, quickly, "my message is not to the great
Lord who received me at the landing. But the Governor in fact. Bring him
here."

The confident manner prevailed.

Presently the messenger returned with a burly, middle-aged person in
guidance. A green turban above a round face, large black eyes in
muffling of fleshy lids, pallid cheeks lost in dense beard, a drab gown
lined with yellow fur, a naked cimeter in a silk-embroidered sash,
bespoke the Turk; but how unlike the handsome, fateful-looking
masquerader at the river side!

"The Prince of India has the honor of speech with the Governor of the
Castle?"

"God be praised," the Governor replied. "I was seeking your Highness.
Besides wishing to join in your thanks for happy deliverance from the
storm, I thought to discharge my duty as a Moslem host by conducting you
to refreshments and repose. Follow me, I pray."

A few steps on the way, the Governor stopped:

"Was there not a companion--a younger man--a Dervish?"

"A monk," said the Prince; "and the question reminds me of my attendant,
a negro. Send for him--or better, bring them both to me. I wish them to
share my apartment."

In a short time the three were in quarters, if one small room may be so
dignified. The walls were cold gray stone; one oblong narrow port-hole
admitted scanty light; a rough bench, an immense kettle-drum shaped like
the half of an egg-shell, and propped broadside up, some piles of loose
straw, each with folded sheepskins on it, constituted the furnishment.

Sergius made no sign of surprise or disappointment. Possibly the chamber
and its contents were reproductions of his cell up in Bielo-Osero. Nilo
gave himself to study of the drum, reminded, doubtless, of similar
warlike devices in Kash-Cush. The Prince alone expostulated. Taking a
stand between the Governor and the door, he said:

"A question before thou goest hence."

The Turk gazed at him silently.

"To what accommodations have the Princess Irene and her attendant been
taken? Are they vile as these?"

"The reception room of my harem is the most comfortable the Castle
affords," the Governor answered.

"And they?"

"They are occupying it."

"Not by courtesy of thine. He who could put the hospitality of the
Prince Mahommed to shame by maltreating one of his guests."

He paused, and grimly surveyed the room.

"Such a servant would be as evil-minded to another guest; and that the
other is a woman, would not affect his imbruited soul."

"The Prince Mahommed!" the Governor exclaimed.

"Yes. What brings him here, matters not; his wish to keep the Romans in
ignorance of his near presence, I know as well as thou; none the less,
it was his royal word we accepted. As for thee--thou mightest have
promised faith and hospitality with thy hand on the Prophet's beard, yet
would I have bidden the Princess trust herself to the tempest sooner."

Sergius was now standing by, but the conversation being in Turkish, he
listened without understanding.

"Thou ass!" the Prince continued. "Not to know that the kinswoman of the
Roman Emperor, under this roof by treaty with the mighty Amurath, his
son the negotiator, is our guardian! When the storm shall have spent
itself, and the waters quieted down, she will resume her journey.
Then--it may be in the morning--she will first ask for us, and then thy
master will require to know how we have passed the night. Ah, thou
beginnest to see!"

The Governor's head was drooping; his hands crossed themselves upon his
stomach; and when he raised his eyes, they were full of deprecation and
entreaty.

"Your Highness--most noble Lord--condescend to hear me."

"Speak. I am awake to hear the falsehood thou hast invented in excuse of
thy perfidy to us, and thy treason to him, the most generous of masters,
the most chivalrous of knights."

"Your Highness has greatly misconceived me. In the first place you have
forgotten the crowded state of the Castle. Every room and passage is
filled with the suite and escort of"--

He hesitated, and turned pale, like a man dropped suddenly into a great
danger. The shrewd guest caught at the broken sentence and finished it:

"Of Prince Mahommed!"

"With the suite and escort," the Governor repeated.... "In the next
place, it was not my intention to leave you unprovided. From my own
apartments, light, beds and seats were ordered to be brought here, with
meats for refreshment, and water for cleansing and draught. The order is
in course of execution now. Indeed, your Highness, I swear by the first
chapter of the Koran"--

"Take something less holy to swear by," cried the Prince.

"Then, by the bones of the Faithful, I swear I meant to make you
comfortable, even to my own deprivation."

"By thy young master's bidding?"

The Governor bent forward very low.

"Well," said the Prince, softening his manner--"the misconception was
natural."

"Yes--yes."

"And now thou hast only to prove thy intention by making it good."

"Trust me, your Highness."

"Trust thee? Ay, on proof. I have a commission"--

The Prince then drew a ring from his finger.

"Take this," he said, "and deliver it to the Emir Mirza."

The assurance of the speech was irresistible; so the Turk held out his
hand to receive the token.

"And say to the Emir, that I desire him to thank the Most Compassionate
and Merciful for the salvation of which we were witnesses at the
southwest corner of the Kaaba."

"What!" exclaimed the Governor. "Art thou a Moslem?"

"I am not a Christian."

The Governor, accepting the ring, kissed the hand offering it, and took
his departure, moving backward, and with downcast eyes, his manner
declarative of the most abject humility.

Hardly was the door closed behind the outgoing official, when the Prince
began to laugh quietly and rub his hands together--quietly, we say, for
the feeling was not merriment so much as self-gratulation.

There was cleverness in having doubted the personality of the individual
who received the refugees at the landing; there was greater cleverness
in the belief which converted the Governor into the Prince Mahommed; but
the play by which the fact was uncovered--if not a stroke of genius, how
may it be better described? The Prince of India thought as he laughed:

"Not long now until Amurath joins his fathers, and then--Mahommed."

Presently he stopped, a step half taken, his gaze upon the floor, his
hands clasped behind him. He stood so still it would not have been amiss
to believe a thought was all the life there was in him. He certainly did
believe in astrology. Had not men been always ruled by what they
imagined heavenly signs? How distinctly he remembered the age of the
oracle and the augur! Upon their going out he became a believer in the
stars as prophets, and then an adept; afterwhile he reached a stage when
he habitually mistook the commonest natural results, even coincidences,
for confirmations of planetary forecasts. And now this halting and
breathlessness was from sudden recollection that the horoscope lying on
his table in Constantinople had relation to Mahommed in his capacity of
Conqueror. How marvellous also that from the meeting with Constantine in
the street of the city, he should have been blown by a tempest to a
meeting with Mahommed in the White Castle!

These circumstances, trifling to the reader, were of deep influence to
the Prince of India. While he stands there rigid as a figure marbleized
in mid action, he is saying to himself:

"The audience will take place--Heaven has ordered it. Would I knew what
manner of man this Mahommed is!"

He had seen a handsome youth, graceful in bearing, quick and subtle in
speech, cultivated and evidently used to governing. Very good, but what
an advantage there would be in knowing the bents and inclinations of the
royal lad beforehand.

Presently the schemer's head arose. The boyish Prince was going about in
armor when soft raiment would be excusable--and that meant ambition,
dreams of conquest, dedication to martial glory. Very good indeed! And
then his manner under the eyes of the girlish Princess--how quickly her
high-born grace had captivated him! Something impossible were he not of
a romantic turn, a poet, sentimentalist, knight errant.

The Prince clapped his hands. He knew the appeals effective with such
natures. Let the audience come.... Ah, but--

Again he sunk into thought. Youths like Mahommed were apt to be wilful.
How was he to be controlled? One expedient after another was swiftly
considered and as swiftly rejected. At last the right one! Like his
ancestors from Ertoghrul down, the young Turk was a believer in the
stars. Not unlikely he was then in the Castle by permission of his
astrologer. Indeed, if Mirza had repeated the conversation and
predictions at El Zaribah, the Prince of India was being waited for with
an impatience due a master of the astral craft. Again the Wanderer
cried, "Let the audience come!" and peace and confidence were possessing
him when a loud report and continuous rumble in the room set the solid
floor to quaking. He looked around in time to see the big drum quivering
under a blow from Nilo.

From the negro his gaze wandered to Sergius standing before the one
loophole by which light and air were let into the dismal chamber; and
recalling the monk as the sole attendant of the Princess Irene, he
thought it best to speak to him.

Drawing near, he observed the cowl thrown back, and that the face was
raised, the eyes closed, the hands palm to palm upon the breast.
Involuntarily he stopped, not because he was one of those who always
presume the most Holy Presence when prayer is being offered--he stopped,
wondering where he had seen that countenance. The delicate features, the
pallid complexion, the immature beard, the fair hair parted in the
middle, and falling in wavy locks over the shoulders, the aspect manly
yet womanly in its refinement, were strangely familiar to him. It was
his first view of the monk's face. Where had he seen it? His memory went
back, far back of the recent. A chill struck his heart. The features,
look, air, portrait, the expression indefinable except as a light of
outcoming spirit, were those of the man he had helped crucify before the
Damascus gate in the Holy City, and whom he could no more cast out of
mind than he could the bones from his body. His feet seemed rooting into
the flinty flags beneath them. He heard the centurion call to him: "Ho,
there! If thou knowest the Golgotha, come show it." He felt the
sorrowful eyes of the condemned upon him. He struck the bloody cheek,
and cried as to a beast: "Go faster, Jesus!" And then the words, wrung
from infinite patience at last broken:

"I am going, but do thou TARRY TILL I COME."

For relief, he spoke:

"What dost thou, my friend?"

Sergius opened his eyes and answered simply, "I am praying."

"To whom?"

"To God."

"Art thou a Christian?"

"Yes."

"God is for the Jew and the Moslem."

"Nay," said Sergius, looking at the Prince without taking down his
hands, "all who believe in God find happiness and salvation in Him--the
Christian as well as the Jew and the Moslem."

The questions had been put with abrupt intensity; now the inquisitor
drew back astonished. He heard the very postulate of the scheme to which
he was devoting himself--and from a boy so like the dead Christ he was
working to blot out of worship he seemed the Christ arisen!

The amazement passed slowly, and with its going the habitual shrewdness
and capacity to make servants of circumstances apparently the most
untoward returned. The youth had intellect, impressiveness, aptitude in
words, and a sublime idea. But what of his spirit--his courage--his
endurance in the Faith?

"How came this doctrine to thee?"

The Prince spoke deferentially.

"From the good father Hilarion."

"Who is he?"

"The Archimandrite of Bielo-Osero."

"A monastery?"

"Yes."

"How did he receive it?"

"From the Spirit of God, whence Christ had his wisdom--whence all good
men have their goodness--by virtue of which they, like Him, become sons
of God."

"What is thy name?"

"Sergius."

"Sergius"--the Prince, now fully recovered, exerted his power of will--
"Sergius, thou art a heretic."

At this accusation, so terrible in those days, the monk raised the
rosary of large beads dangling from his girdle, kissed the cross, and
stood surveying the accuser with pity.

"That is," the Prince continued with greater severity, "speak thou thus
to the Patriarch yonder"--he waved a hand toward Constantinople--"dare
repeat the saying to a commission appointed to try thee for heresy, and
thou wilt thyself taste the pangs of crucifixion or be cast to the
beasts."

The monk arose to his great height, and replied, fervently:

"Knowest thou when death hath the sweetness of sleep? I will tell thee"--
A light certainly not from the narrow aperture in the wall collected upon
his countenance, and shone visibly--"It is when a martyr dies knowing
both of God's hands are a pillow under his head."

The Prince dropped his eyes, for he was asking himself, was such
sweetness of sleep appointed for him? Resuming his natural manner, he
said: "I understand thee, Sergius. Probably no man in the world, go thou
East or West, will ever understand thee better. God's hands under my
head, welcome death!--Let us be friends."

Sergius took his offered hand.

Just then there was a noise at the door, and a troop of servants entered
with lighted lamps, rugs, a table, stools, and beds and bedding, and it
was not long until the apartment was made habitable. The Prince,
otherwise well satisfied, wanted nothing then but a reply from Mirza;
and in the midst of his wonder at the latter's delay, a page in
brilliant costume appeared, and called out:

"The Emir Mirza!"


CHAPTER XII

THE RING RETURNS


The Prince, at the announcement of Mirza, took position near the centre
of the room where the light was ample. His black velvet pelisse
contrasting strongly with his white hair and beard, he looked a
mysterious Indian potentate to whom occult Nature was a familiar, and
the stars oracular friends.

Mirza's cheeks were scarcely so sun and sand stained as when we first
beheld him in conduct of the caravan to Mecca; in other respects he was
unchanged. His attire, like the lord Mahommed's at the reception on the
landing, was of chain mail very light and flexible. He carried a dagger
in his belt, and to further signify confidence in the Prince, the flat
steel cap forming his headgear was swinging loosely from his left arm;
or he might have intended to help his friend to a more ready recognition
by presenting himself bareheaded. He met his survey with unaffected
pleasure, took the hand extended in greeting, and kissed it
reverentially.

"Forgive me, O Prince, if my first greeting have the appearance of a
reproach," Mirza said, as he gave up the hand. "Why have you kept us
waiting so long?"

The Prince's countenance assumed a severe expression.

"Emir, I gave you confidence under seal."

The Emir flushed deeply.

"Was it knightly to betray me? To whom have you told the secret? How
many have been waiting for my coming?"

"Be merciful, I pray."

"But the stars. You have made me culprit with them. I may pardon you;
can you assure me of their pardon?"

The Emir raised his head, and with an expostulatory gesture, was about
to reply, when the Prince continued, "Put thy words in the tongue
coinage of Italy, for to be overheard now were to make me an offender
like unto thyself."

Mirza glanced hastily at Sergius, still praying before the loophole, and
at Nilo; then he surveyed the cell critically, and said, in Italian,
"This is the prison of the Castle--and thou--can it be I see thee a
prisoner?"

The Prince smiled. "The Governor led me here with my friends; and what
you behold of accommodations he sent in afterwards, saying the better
rooms were filled with soldiery."

"He will rue the deed. My Lord is swift at righting a wrong, and trust
me, O Prince, to make report. But to return"--Mirza paused, and looked
into the Prince's eyes earnestly--"Is your accusation just? Hear me;
then by the motive judge. When I stood before my master, Prince Mahommed,
a returned pilgrim, if not taller in fact, his bearing was more majestic.
I kissed his hand wondering if some servant of the Compassionate, some
angel or travelling Jinn, had not arrived before me, and whispered him of
what you told me, speaking for the stars. And when we were alone, he
would have account of the countries journeyed through, of the people met,
of Medina and Mecca, and the other holy places; nor would he rest until
he had from me the sayings I had heard on the way, everything from calls
to prayer to the Khatib's sermon. When I told him I had not heard the
sermon, nor seen the preacher or his camel, he demanded why, and--what
else was there to do, O Prince?--I related how we had been pursued by the
terrible Yellow Air; how it had overtaken me; how I fell down dying at
the corner of the Kaaba, and by whom I was saved even as the life was
departing. This last directed him to you. My efforts to put him off but
whetted his desire. He would not be diverted or denied. He insisted--
urged--threatened. At last I told him all--of your joining us with the
Hajj from El Khatif--your rank and train--your marches in the rear--the
hundreds of miserables you saved from the plague--of our meeting at
Zaribah, your hospitality, your learning in all that pertains to the
greatest of the prophets, your wisdom above the wisdom of other men. And
you grew upon him as I proceeded. 'Oh, a good man truly!' 'What courage!'
'What charity!' 'The Prophet himself!' 'Oh, that I had been you!' 'O
foolish Mirza, to suffer such a man to escape!' With such exclamations he
kept breaking up my story. It was not long until he fastened upon our
meeting in the tent. He plied me to know of what we talked--what you
said, and all you said. O Prince, if you did but know him; if you knew
the soul possessing him, the intellectual things he has mastered, his
sagacity, his art, his will, his day-dreams pursuing him in sleep, the
deeds he is prepared to do, the depth and strength of his passions, his
admiration for heroes, his resolve to ring the world with the greatness
of his name--Oh, knew you the man as I do, were you his lover as I am,
his confidant--had you, for teaching him to ride and strike with sword
and spear, his promise of a share in the glory beckoning him on, making
his mighty expectations a part of you even as they are of him, would you
--ah, Prince, could you have withheld the secret? Think of the
revelation! The old East to awake, and march against the West!
Constantinople doomed! And he the leader for whom the opportunity is
waiting! And to call my weakness betrayal! Unsay it, unsay it, Prince!"

The face of the auditor as Mirza proceeded with his defence would have
been a profitable study. He saw himself succeeding in the purpose of his
affected severity; he was drawing from Mahommed's intimate the
information he most desired; and thus advised in advance, his role in
the interview coming would be of easy foresight and performance. Not to
appear too lightly satisfied, however, he said gravely, "I see the
strain you underwent, my gallant friend. I see also the earnestness of
your affection for your most noble pupil. He is to be congratulated upon
the possession of a servant capable of such discernment and devotion.
But I recall my question--How many are there waiting for me?"

"Your revelations, O Prince, were imparted to my master alone; and with
such certainty as you know yourself, you may believe them at rest in his
bosom. No one better than he appreciates the importance of keeping them
there under triple lock. More than one defeat--I think he would permit
the confession--has taught him that secrecy is the life of every
enterprise."

"Say you so, Emir? I feel warmth returning to my hope. Nay, listening to
you, and not believing in improvised heroes, I see how your course may
have been for the best. The years gone since you yielded to his
importunities, wisely used, have doubtless served him providentially."

The Prince extended his hand again, and it was ardently taken; then, on
his part, more than pleased, Mirza said, "I bring you a message from my
Lord Mahommed. I was with him when the Governor came and delivered your
ring to me--and, lest I forget a duty, Prince, here it is--take it at
some future time it may be serviceable as today."

"Yes, well thought!" the Jew exclaimed, replacing the signet on his
finger, and immediately, while looking at the turquoise eye, he dropped
his tone into the solemn, "Ay, the obligations of the Pentagram
endure--they are like a decree of God."

The words and manner greatly impressed Mirza.

"My Lord Mahommed," he said, "observed the delivery of the ring to me by
the Governor; and when we were alone, and I had recounted the story of
the jewels, 'What!' my Lord cried, quite as transported as myself. 'That
wonderful man--he here--here in this Castle! He shall not escape me.
Send for him at once. I brook no delay.' He stamped his foot. 'Lest he
vanish in the storm--go!' When I was at the door, he bade me come back.
'The elder man with the white beard and black eyes, said you? It were
well for me to begin by consulting his comfort. He may be tired, and in
want of repose; his accommodations may be insufficient; wherefore go see
him first, and ascertain his state and wishes.' And as I was going, he
summoned me to return again. 'A moment--stay!' he said.'The circumstance
enlarges with thought. Thou knowest, Mirza, I did not come here with a
special object; I was drawn involuntarily; now I see it was to meet him.
It is a doing of the stars. I shall hear from them!' O Prince"--Mirza's
eyes sparkled, arid he threw up both his hands--"if ever man believed
what he said, my master did."

"A wise master truly," said the Jew, struggling with his exultation.
"What said he next?"

"'While I am honoring their messenger'--thus my Lord continued--'why not
honor the stars? Their hour is midnight, for then they are all out, from
this horizon and that calling unto each other, and merging their
influences into the harmony the preachers call the Will of the Most
Merciful. A good hour for the meeting. Hear, Mirza--at midnight--in this
room. Go now.' And so it is appointed."

"And well appointed, Emir."

"Shall I so report?"

"With my most dutiful protestations."

"Look for me then at midnight."

"I shall be awake, and ready."

"Meantime, Prince, I will seek an apartment more in correspondence with
the degree of my Lord's most honored guest."

"Nay, good Mirza, suffer me to advise in that matter. The bringing me
into this place was a mistake of the Governor's. He could not divine the
merit I have in your master's eyes. He took me for a Christian. I
forgive him, and pray he may not be disturbed. He may be useful to me.
Upon the springing of a mischance--there is one such this instant in my
mind's eye--I may be driven to come back to this Castle. In such an
event, I prefer him my servant rather than my enemy."

"O Prince!"

"Nay, Emir, the idea is only a suggestion of one of the Prophets whom
Allah stations at the turns in every man's career."

"But every man cannot see the Prophets."

The Jew finished gravely: "Rather than disturb the Governor further,
soothe him for me; and when the Lord Mahommed goes hence, do thou see an
instruction is left putting the Castle and its chief at my order. Also,
as thou art a grateful friend, Mirza, serve me by looking into the
kettles out of which we are to have our refreshment, and order concerning
them as for thyself. I feel a stir of appetite."

The Emir backed from the apartment, leaving a low salaam just outside
the door.

If the reader thinks the Prince content now, he is not mistaken. True he
paced the floor long and rapidly; but, feeling himself close upon a turn
in his course, he was making ready for it perfectly as possible by
consulting the Prophet whom he saw waiting there.

And as the Lord Mahommed failed not to remember them what time he betook
himself to supper, the three guests up in the prison fared well, nor
cared for the howling of the wind, and the bursting and beating of the
rain still rioting without the walls.


CHAPTER XIII

MAHOMMED HEARS FROM THE STARS


The second recall of the Emir Mirza departing with the appointment for
the Prince of India was remarkable, considering Mahommed's usual
quickness of conclusion and steadiness of purpose; and the accounting
for it is noteworthy.

So completely had the young Turk been taken up by study and military
service that leisure for love had been denied him; else he either
despised the passion or had never met a woman to catch his fancy and
hold it seriously.

We have seen him make the White Castle by hard galloping before the
bursting of the storm. While at the gate, and in the midst of his
reception there, the boats were reported making all speed to the river
landing; and not wishing his presence at the Castle to be known in
Constantinople, he despatched an under officer to seize the voyagers,
and detain them until he had crossed the Bosphorus _en route_ to
Adrianople. However, directly the officer brought back the spirited
message of the Princess Irene to the Governor of the Castle, his mind
underwent a change.

"What," he asked, "sayst thou the woman is akin to the Emperor
Constantine?"

"Such is her claim, my Lord, and she looks it."

"Is she old?"

"Young, my Lord--not more than twenty."

Mahommed addressed the Governor:

"Stay thou here. I will take thy office, and wait upon this Princess."

Dismounting, then, in the capacity of Governor of the Castle, he
hastened to the landing, curious as well as desirous of offering refuge
to the noble lady.

He saw her first a short way off, and was struck with her composed
demeanor. During the discussion of his tender of hospitality, her face
was in fair view, and it astonished him. When finally she stepped from
the boat, her form, delicately observable under the rich and graceful
drapery, and so exquisitely in correspondence with her face, still
further charmed him.

Before the chairs were raised, he sent a messenger to the Castle with
orders to place everybody in hiding, and for his Kislar-Aga, or chief
eunuch, to be in the passage of entrance to receive and take charge of
the kinswoman of the Emperor and her attendant. By a further order the
Governor proper was directed to vacate his harem apartments for her
accommodation.

In the Castle, after the Princess had been thus disposed of, the
impression she made upon him increased.

"She is so high-born!--so beautiful!--She has such spirit and mind!--She
is so calm under trial--so courageous--so decorous--so used to courtly
life!"

Such exclamations attested the unwonted ferment going on in his mind.
Gradually, as tints under the brush of a skilful painter lose themselves
in one effect, his undefined ideas took form.

"O Allah! What a Sultana for a hero!"

And by repetition this ran on into what may be termed the chorus of a
love song--the very first of the kind his soul had ever sung.

Such was Mahommed's state when Mirza received the turquoise ring, and,
announcing the Prince of India, asked for orders. Was it strange he
changed his mind? Indeed he was at the moment determining to see again
the woman who had risen upon him like a moon above a lake; so, directly
he had despatched the Emir to the Prince of India with the appointment
for midnight, he sent for an Arab Sheik of his suite, arrayed himself in
the latter's best habit, and stained his hands, neck, and face-turned
himself, in brief, into the story-teller whom we have seen admitted to
amuse the Princess Irene.

At midnight, sharply as the hour could be determined by the uncertain
appliances resorted to by the inmates of the Castle, Mirza appeared at
his master's door with the mystical Indian, and, passing the sentinel
there, knocked like one knowing himself impatiently awaited. A voice
bade them enter.

The young Turk, upon their entrance, arose from a couch of many cushions
prepared for him under a canopy in the centre of the room.

"This, my Lord, is the Prince of India" said Mirza; then, almost without
pause, he turned to the supposed Indian, and added more ceremoniously:
"Be thou happy, O Prince! The East hath not borne a son so worthy to
take the flower from the tomb of Saladin, and wear it, as my master here
--the Lord Mahommed."

Then, his duty done, the Emir retired.

Mahommed was in the garb used indoors immemorially by his race--sharply
pointed slippers, immense trousers gathered at the ankles, a yellow
quilted gown dropping below the knees, and a turban of balloon shape,
its interfolding stayed by an aigrette of gold and diamonds. His head
was shaven up to the edge of the turban, so that, the light falling from
a cluster of lamps in suspension from the ceiling, every feature was in
plain exposure. Looking into the black eyes scarcely shaded by the
upraised arching brows, the Prince of India saw them sparkle with
invitation and pleasure, and was himself satisfied.

He advanced, and saluted by falling upon his knees, and kissing the back
of his hands laid palm downward on the floor. Mahommed raised him to his
feet.

"Rise, O Prince!" he said--"rise, and come sit with me."

From behind the couch, the Turk dragged a chair of ample seat, railed
around except at the front, and provided with a cushion of camel's
hair--a chair such as teachers in the Mosques use when expounding to
their classes. This he placed so while he sat on the couch the visitor
would be directly before him, and but little removed. Soon the two were
sitting cross-legged face to face.

"A man devout as the Prince of India is reported to me," Mahommed began,
in a voice admirably seconding the respectful look he fixed upon the
other, "must be of the rightly guided, who believe in God and the Last
Day, and observe prayer, and pay the alms, and dread none but God--who
therefore of right frequent the temples."

"Your words, my Lord, are those of the veritable messenger of the most
high Heaven," the Wanderer responded, bending forward as if about to
perform a prostration. "I recognize them, and they give me the sensation
of being in a garden of perpetual abode, with a river running beneath
it." Mahommed, perceiving the quotation from the Koran, bent low in
turn, saying: "It is good to hear you, for as I listen I say to myself,
This one is of the servants of the Merciful who are to walk upon the
earth softly. I accost you in advance, Welcome and Peace."

After a short silence, he continued: "A frequenter of mosques, you will
see, O Prince, I have put you in the teacher's place. I am the student.
Yours to open the book and read; mine to catch the pearls of your saying,
lest they fall in the dust, and be lost."

"I fear my Lord does me honor overmuch; yet there is a beauty in
willingness even where one cannot meet expectation. Of what am I to
speak?"

Mahommed knit his brows, and asked imperiously, "Who art thou? Of that
tell me first."

Happily for the Prince, he had anticipated this demand, and, being
intensely watchful, was ready for it, and able to reply without
blenching: "The Emir introduced me rightly. I am a Prince of India."

"Now of thy life something."

"My Lord's request is general--perhaps he framed it with design. Left
thus to my own judgment, I will be brief, and choose from the mass of my
life."

There was not the slightest sign of discomposure discernible in the look
or tone of the speaker; his air was more than obliging--he seemed to be
responding to a compliment.

"I began walk as a priest--a disciple of Siddhartha, whom my Lord, of
his great intelligence, will remember as born in Central India. Very
early, on account of my skill in translation, I was called to China, and
there put to rendering the Thirty-five Discourses of the father of the
Budhisattwa into Chinese and Thibettan. I also published a version of
the Lotus of the Good Law, and another of the Nirvana. These brought me
a great honor. To an ancestor of mine, Maha Kashiapa, Buddha happened to
have intrusted his innermost mysteries--that is, he made him Keeper of
the Pure Secret of the Eye of Right Doctrine. Behold the symbol of that
doctrine."

The Prince drew a leaf of ivory, worn and yellow, from a pocket under
his pelisse, and passed it to Mahommed, saying, "Will my lord look?"

Mahommed took the leaf, and in the silver sunk into it saw this sign:

[Illustration]

"I see," he said, gravely. "Give me its meaning."

"Nay, my Lord, did I that, the doctrine of which, as successor of
Kashiapa, though far removed, they made me Keeper--the very highest of
Buddhistic honors--would then be no longer a secret. The symbol is of
vast sanctity. There is never a genuine image of Buddha without it over
his heart. It is the monogram of Vishnu and Siva; but as to its meaning,
I can only say every Brahman of learning views it worshipfully, knowing
it the compression of the whole mind of Buddha."

Mahommed respected the narrator's compunction, and returned the symbol,
saying simply, "I have heard of such things."

"To pursue," the Prince then said, confident of the impression he was
producing: "At length I returned to my own country enriched beyond every
hope. A disposition to travel seized me. One day, passing the desert to
Baalbec, some Bedouin made me prisoner, and carrying me to Mecca, sold
me to the Scherif there; a good man who respected my misfortune and
learning--may the youths ever going in Paradise forget not his cup of
flowing wine!--and wrought with me over the Book of the One God until I
became a believer like himself. Then, as I had exchanged the hope of
Nirvana for the better and surer hope of Islam, he set me free.... Again
in my native land, I betook myself to astrologic studies, being the more
inclined thereto by reason of the years I had spent in contemplating the
abstrusities of Siddhartha. I became an adept--something, as my Lord may
already know, impossible to such as go about unknowing the whole earth
and heavens, and the powers superior, those of the sky, and those
lesser, meaning Kings, Emperors, and Sultans."

"How!" exclaimed Mahommed. "Is not every astrologer an adept?"

The Prince answered softly, seeing the drift was toward the professor in
the young Turk's service. "There is always a better until we reach the
best. Even the stars differ from each other in degree."

"But how may a man know the superior powers?"

"The sum of the observations kept by the wise through the ages, and
recorded by them, is a legacy for the benefit of the chosen few. Had my
Lord the taste, and were he not already devoted by destiny, I could take
him to a college where what is now so curious to him is simple reading."

The hard and doubting expression on Mahommed's face began to soften, yet
he persisted: "Knowing the superior, why is it needful to know the
inferior powers?"

"My Lord trenches now upon the forbidden, yet I will answer as his
shrewdness deserves. Never man heard from the stars in direct speech--
that were almost like words with God. But as they are servants, they also
have servants. Moreover what we have from them is always in answer. They
love to be sought after by the diligent. Some ages ago an adept seeking
this and that of them conjecturally, had reply, 'Lo! A tribe of poor
wanderers in the East. Heed them, for they shall house their dominion in
palaces now the glory of the West, and they shall dig the pit to compass
the fall of the proud.' Is it this tribe? Is it that? But the seeker
never knew. The children of Ertoghrul were yet following their herds up
and down the pastures they had from Ala-ed-din, the Iconian. Not knowing
their name, he could not ask of them from the decree-makers?"

The Mystic beheld the blood redden Mahommed's open countenance, and the
brightening of his eyes; and as he was speaking to his pride, he knew he
was not amiss.

"The saying of the stars," he went on, "descended to succeeding adepts.
Time came to their aid. When at length your fathers seated themselves in
Broussa, the mystery was in part revealed. Anybody, even the low-browed
herdsman shivering in the currents blowing from the Trojan heights,
could then have named the fortunate tribe. Still the exposure was not
complete; a part remained for finding out. We knew the diggers of the
pit; but for whom was it? To this I devoted myself. Hear me closely
now--my Lord, I have traversed the earth, not once, but many times--so
often, you cannot name a people unknown to me, nor a land whither I have
not been--no, nor an island. As the grandson of Abd-el-Muttalib was a
Messenger of God, I am a Messenger of the Predicting Stars--not their
prophet, only their Interpreter and Messenger. The business of the stars
is my business." Mahommed's lips moved, and it was with an effort he
kept silent.

The Prince proceeded, apparently unconscious of the interest he was
exciting: "Here and there while I travelled, I kept communication with
the planets; and though I had many of their predictions to solve, I
asked them oftenest after the unnamed proud one for whom thy Ottomanites
were charged to dig a pit. I presented names without number--names of
persons, names of peoples, and lest one should he overlooked, I kept a
record of royal and notable families. Was a man-child horn to any of
them, I wrote down the minute of the hour of his birth, and how he was
called. By visitations, I kept informed of the various countries, their
conditions, and their relations with each other; for as the state of the
earth points favorably or unfavorably to its vegetation, so do the
conditions of nations indicate the approach of changes, and give
encouragement to those predestined to bring the changes about. Again I
say, my Lord, as the stars are the servants of God, they have their
servants, whom you shall never know except as you are able to read the
signs their times offer you for reading. Moreover the servants are
sometimes priests, sometimes soldiers, sometimes kings; among them have
been women, and men of common origin; for the seed of genius falls
directly from God's hand, and He chooses the time and field for the
sowing; but whether high or low, white or black, good or bad, how shall
a Messenger interpret truly for the stars except by going before their
elect, and introducing them, and making their paths smooth? Must he not
know them first?"

A mighty impulsion here struck Mahommed. Recurring rather to what he had
heard from Mirza of the revelation dropped by the strange person met by
him during the pilgrimage, he felt himself about to be declared of the
elect, and unable to control his eagerness, he asked abruptly:

"Knowest thou me, O Prince?"

The manner of the Mystic underwent a change. He had been deferential,
even submissive; seldom a teacher so amiable and unmasterful; now he
concentrated his power of spirit, and shot it a continuing flash from
his large eyes.

"Know thee, Lord Mahommed?" he answered, in a low voice, but clear and
searching, and best suited to the conflict he was ushering in--the
conflict of spirit and spirit. "Thou knowest not thyself as well."

Mahommed shrank perceptibly--he was astonished.

"I mean not reference to thy father--nor to the Christian Princess, thy
mother,--nor to thy history, which is of an obedient son and brave
soldier,--nor to thy education, unusual in those born inheritors of
royal power--I mean none of these, for they are in mouths everywhere,
even of the beggars nursing their sores by the waysides.... In thy
father's palace there was a commotion one night--thou wert about to be
born. A gold-faced clock stood in the birth chamber, the gift of a
German King, and from the door of the chamber eunuchs were stationed.
Exactly as the clock proclaimed midnight, mouth and mouth carried the
cry to a man on the roof--'A Prince is born! A Prince is born! Praised
be Allah!' He on the roof was seated at a table studying a paper with
the signs of the Zodiac in the usual formulary of a nativity. At the
coming of the cry, he arose, and observed the heavens intently; then he
shouted, 'There is no God but God! Lo, Mars, Lord of the Ascendant--Mars,
with his friends, Saturn, Venus, and Jupiter in happy configuration, and
the moon nowhere visible. Hail the Prince!' And while his answer was
passing below, the man on the roof marked the planets in their Houses
exactly as they were that midnight between Monday and Tuesday in the year
1430. Have I in aught erred, my lord?"

"In nothing, O Prince."

"Then I proceed.... The nativity came to me, and I cast and recast it
for the aspects, familiarities, parallels and triplicities of the hour,
and always with the same result. I found the sun, the angles and the
quality of the ambient signs favorable to a career which, when run, is
to leave the East radiant with the glory of an unsetting sun."

Here the Jew paused, and bowed--"Now doth my Lord doubt if I know him
best?"


CHAPTER XIV

DREAMS AND VISIONS


Mahommed sat awhile in deep abstraction, his face flushed, his hands
working nervously in their own clasp. The subject possessing him was
very pleasurable. How could it be else?

On his side the Prince waited deferentially, but very observant. He was
confident of the impression made; he even thought he could follow the
young Turk's reflections point by point; still it was wisest to let him
alone, for the cooling time of the sober second thought would come, and
then how much better if there were room for him to believe the decision
his own.

"It is very well, Prince," Mahommed said, finally, struggling to keep
down every sign of excitement. "I had accounts of you from Mirza the
Emir, and it is the truth, which neither of us will be the worse of
knowing, that I see nothing of disagreement in what he told me, and in
what you now tell me of yourself. The conceptions I formed of you are
justified: you are learned and of great experience; you are a good man
given to charity as the Prophet has ordered, and a believer in God. At
various times in the world's history, if we may trust the writers, great
men have had their greatness foretold them; now if I think myself in the
way of addition to the list of those so fortunate, it is because I put
faith in you as in a friendly Prophet."

At this the Prince threw up both hands.

"Friendly am I, my lord, more than friendly, but not a Prophet. I am
only a Messenger, an Interpreter of the Superior Powers."

Much he feared the demands upon him if he permitted the impression that
he was a Prophet to go uncontradicted; as an astrologer, he could in
need thrust the stars between him and the unreasonable. And his judgment
was quickly affirmed.

"As you will, O Prince," said Mahommed. "Messenger, interpreter,
prophet, whichever pleases you, the burden of what you bring me is
nevertheless of chiefest account. Comes a herald, we survey him, and ask
voucher for his pretensions; are we satisfied with them, why then he
gives place in our interest, and becomes secondary to the matter he
bears. Is it not so?"

"It is righteously said, my Lord."

"And when I take up this which you have brought me"--Mahommed laid a
hand upon his throat as if in aid of the effort he was making to keep
calm and talk with dignity--"I cannot deny its power; for when was there
an imaginative young man who first permitted ambition and love of glory
to build golden palaces for their abiding in his heart, with self-control
to stop his ears to promises apparently from Heaven? O Prince, if you are
indeed my friend, you will not laugh at me when you are alone!...
Moreover I would not you should believe your tidings received carelessly
or as a morsel sweet on my tongue; but as wine warms to the blood
coursing to the brain, it has started inquiries and anxieties you alone
can allay. And first, the great glory whose running is to fill the East,
like an unsetting sun, tell me of it; for, as we all know, glory is of
various kinds; there is one kind reserved for poets, orators, and
professors cunning in the arts, and another for cheer of such as find
delight in swords and bossy shields, and armor well bedight, and in
horses, and who exult in battle, and in setting armies afield, in
changing boundary lines, and in taking rest and giving respite in the
citadels of towns happily assaulted. And as of these the regard is
various, tell me the kind mine is to be."

"The stars speak not doubtfully, my Lord. When Mars rises ascendant in
either of his Houses, they that moment born are devoted to war, and,
have they their bent, they shall be soldiers; nor soldiers merely, but
as the conjunctions are good, conquerors, and fortunate, and Samael, his
angel, becomes their angel. Has my Lord ever seen his nativity?"

"Yes."

"Then he knows whereof I speak."

Mahommed nodded affirmatively, and said, "The fame is to my taste, doubt
not; but, Prince, were thy words duly weighed, then my glory is to be
surpassing. Now, I am of a line of heroes. Othman, the founder; Orchan,
father of the Janissaries; Solyman, who accepted the crescent moon seen
in a dream by the sea at Cyzicus as Allah's bidding to pass the
Hellespont to Tzympe in Europe; Amurath, conqueror of Adrianople;
Bajazet, who put an end to Christian crusading in the field of Nicopolis
--these filled the East with their separate renowns; and my father
Amurath, did he not subdue Hunyades? Yet, Prince, you tell me my glory is
to transcend theirs. Now--because I am ready to believe you--say if it is
to burst upon me suddenly or to signalize a long career. The enjoyment of
immortality won in youth must be a pleasant thing."

"I cannot answer, my Lord"

"Cannot?"

And Mahommed's eagerness came near getting the better of his will.

"I have nothing from the stars by which to speak, and I dare not assume
to reply for myself."

Then Mahommed's eyes became severely bright, and the bones of his hands
shone white through the skin, so hard did he compress them.

"How long am I to wait before the glory you promise me ripens ready for
gathering? If it requires long campaigns, shall I summon the armies now?"

A tone, a stress of voice in the question sent a shiver through the
Prince despite his self-command. His gaze upon Mahommed's countenance,
already settled, intensified, and almost before the last word passed he
saw the idea he was expected to satisfy, and that it was the point to
which his interrogator had been really tending from the commencement of
the interview. To gain a moment, he affected not to clearly understand;
after a repetition, he in turn asked, with a meaning look:

"Is not thy father, O Prince, now in his eighty-fifth year?"

Mahommed leaned further forward.

"And is it not eight and twenty years since he began reigning wisely and
well?"

Mahommed nodded assent.

"Suffer me to answer now. Besides his age which pleads for him, your
father has not allowed greatness and power to shade the love he gave you
heartily the hour he first took you in his arms. Nature protests against
his cutting off, and in this instance, O Prince, the voice of Nature is
the voice of Allah. So say I speaking for myself."

Mahommed's face relaxed its hardness, and he moved and breathed freely
while replying: "I do not know what the influences require of me."

"Speak you of the stars, my Lord," the other returned, "hear me, and
with distinctness. As yet they have intrusted me with the one
prediction, and that you have. In other words, they are committed to a
horoscope based upon your nativity, and from it your glory has been
rightly delivered. So much is permitted us by the astrologic law we
practise. But this now asked me, a circumstance in especial, appertains
to you as chief of forces not yet yours. Wherefore--heed well, my
Lord--I advise you to make note of the minute of the hour of the day you
gird yourself with the sword of sovereignty which, at this speaking, is
your great father's by sanction of Heaven; then will I cast a horoscope
for Mahommed the Sultan, not Mahommed, son of Amurath merely--then, by
virtue of my office of Interpreter of the Stars, having the proper
writing in my hand, I will tell you this you now seek, together with all
else pertaining to your sovereignty intrusted me for communication. I
will tell you when the glory is open to you, and the time for setting
forward to make it yours--even the dawning of the term of preparation
necessarily precedent to the movement itself. Now am I understood? Will
my Lord tell me I am understood?"

An observation here may not be amiss. The reader will of course notice
the clever obtrusion of the stars in the speech; yet its real craft was
in the reservations covered. Presuming it possible for the Prince to
have fixed a time to Mahommed's satisfaction, telling it would have been
like giving away the meat of an apple, and retaining the rind. The wise
man who sets out to make himself a need to another will carefully
husband his capital. Moreover it is of importance to keep in mind
through this period of our story that with the Prince of India
everything was subsidiary to his scheme of unity in God. To which end it
was not enough to be a need to Mahommed; he must also bring the young
potentate to wait upon him for the signal to begin the movement against
Constantinople; for such in simplicity was the design scarcely concealed
under the glozing of "the East against the West." That is to say, until
he knew Constantine's disposition with respect to the superlative
project, his policy was delay. What, in illustration, if the Emperor
proved a friend? In falconry the hawk is carried into the field hooded,
and cast off only when the game is flushed. So the Prince of India
thought as he concluded his speech, and looked at the handsome face of
the Lord Mahommed.

The latter was disappointed, and showed it. He averted his eyes, knit
his brows, and took a little time before answering; then a flash of
passion seized him.

"With all thy wisdom, Prince, thou knowest not how hard waiting will be.
There is nothing in Nature sweeter than glory, and on the other hand
nothing so intolerably bitter as hungering for it when it is in open
prospect. What irony in the providence which permits us to harvest
greatness in the days of our decline! I dream of it for my youth, for
then most can be made of it. There was a Greek--not of the Byzantine
breed in the imperial kennel yonder"--he emphasized the negative with a
contemptuous glance in the direction of Constantinople--"a Greek of the
old time of real heroes, he who has the first place in history as a
conqueror. Think you he was happy because he owned the world? Delight in
property merely, a horse, a palace, a ship, a kingdom, is vulgar: any
man can be owner of something; the beggar polishes his crutch for the
same reason the king gilds his throne--it belongs to him. Possession
means satiety. But achieve thou immortality in thy first manhood, and it
shall remain to thee as the ring to a bride or as his bride to the
bridegroom.--Let it be as you say. I bow to the stars. Between me and
the sovereignty my father stands, a good man to whom I give love for
love; and he shall not be disturbed by me or any of mine. In so far I
will honor your advice; and in the other matter also, there shall be one
ready to note the minute of the hour the succession falls to me. But
what if then you are absent?"

"A word from my Lord will bring me to him; and His Majesty is liable to
go after his fathers at any moment"--

"Ay, and alas!" Mahommed interposed, with unaffected sorrow, "a king may
keep his boundaries clean, and even extend them thitherward from the
centre, and be a fear unto men; yet shall death oblige him at last. All
is from God."

The Prince was courtier enough to respect the feeling evinced.

"But I interrupted you," Mahommed presently added. "I pray pardon."

"I was about to say, my Lord, if I am not with you when His Majesty,
your father, bows to the final call--for the entertainment of such was
Paradise set upon its high hill!--let a messenger seek me in
Constantinople; and it may even serve well if the Governor of this
Castle be instructed to keep his gates always open to me, and himself
obedient to my requests."

"A good suggestion! I will attend to it. But"--

Again he lapsed into abstraction, and the Prince held his peace
watchfully.

"Prince," Mahommed said at length, "it is not often I put myself at
another's bidding, for freedom to go where one pleases is not more to a
common man than is freedom to do what pleases him to a sovereign; yet so
will I with you in this matter; and as is the custom of Moslems setting
out on a voyage I say of our venture, 'In the name of God be its courses
and its moorings.' That settled, hearken further. What you have given me
is not all comprehensible. As I understand you, I am to find the
surpassing glory in a field of war. Tell me, lies the field far or near?
Where is it? And who is he I am to challenge? There will be room and
occasion for combat around me everywhere, or, if the occasion exist not,
my Spahis in a day's ride can make one. There is nothing stranger than
how small a cause suffices us to set man against man, life or death.
But--and now I come to the very difficulty--looking here and there I
cannot see a war new in any respect, either of parties, or objects, or
pretence, out of which such a prodigious fame is to be plucked. You
discern the darkness in which I am groping. Light, O Prince--give me
light!"

For an instant the mind of the Jew, sown with subtlety as a mine with
fine ore, was stirred with admiration of the quality so strikingly
manifested in this demand; but collecting himself, he said, calmly, for
the question had been foreseen:

"My Lord was pleased to say a short while ago that the Emir Mirza, on
his return from the Hajj, told him of me. Did Mirza tell also of my
forbidding him to say anything of the predictions I then intrusted him?"

"Yes," Mahommed answered, smiling, "and I have loved him for the
disobedience. He satisfied me to whom he thought his duty was first
owing."

"Well, if evil ensue from the disclosure, it may be justly charged to my
indiscretion. Let it pass--only, in reporting me, did not Mirza say,
Lord Mahommed, that the prohibition I laid upon him proceeded from a
prudent regard for your interests?"

"Yes."

"And in speaking of the change in the status of the world I then
announced, and of the refluent wave the East was to pour upon the West"--

"And of the doom of Constantinople!" Mahommed cried, in a sudden
transport of excitement.

"Ay, and of the hero thou wert to be, my Lord! Said he nothing of the
other caution I gave him, how absolute verity could only be had by a
recast of the horoscope at the city itself? And how I was even then on
my way thither?"

"Truly, O Prince. Mirza is a marvel!"

"Thanks, my Lord. The assurance prepares me to answer your last demand."

Then, lowering his voice, the Prince returned to his ordinary manner.

"The glory you are to look for will not depend upon conditions such as
parties to the war, or its immediate cause, or the place of its
wagement."

Mahommed listened with open mouth.

"My Lord knows of the dispute long in progress between the Pope of Rome
and the Patriarch of Constantinople; one claiming to be the head of the
Church of Christ, the other insisting on his equality. The dispute, my
Lord also knows, has been carried from East to West, and back and back
again, prelate replying to prelate, until the whole Church is falling to
pieces, and on every Christian tongue the 'Church East' and the 'Church
West' are common as morning salutations."

Mahommed nodded.

"Now, my Lord," the Prince continued, the magnetic eyes intensely bright,
"you and I know the capital of Christianity is yonder "--he pointed
toward Constantinople--"and that conquering it is taking from Christ and
giving to Mahomet. What more of definition of thy glory wilt thou
require? Thus early I salute thee a Sword of God."

Mahommed sprang from his couch, and strode the floor, frequently clapping
his hands. Upon the passing of the ecstasy, he stopped in front of the
Prince.

"I see it now--the feat of arms impossible to my father reserved for me."

Again he walked, clapping his hands.

"I pray your pardon," he said, when the fit was over. "In my great joy I
interrupted you."

"I regret to try my Lord's patience further," the Prince answered, with
admirable diplomacy. "It were better, however, to take another step in
the explanation now. A few months after separating from Mirza in Mecca,
I arrived in Constantinople, and every night since, the heavens being
clear, I have questioned the stars early and late. I cannot repeat to my
Lord all the inquiries I made of them, so many were they, and so varied
in form, nor the bases I laid hold of for horoscopes, each having, as I
hoped, to do with the date of the founding of the city. What calculations
I have made--tables of figures to cover the sky with a tapestry of
algebraic and geometrical symbols: The walks of astrology are well known
--I mean those legitimate--nevertheless in my great anxiety, I have even
ventured into the arcana of magic forbidden to the Faithful. The seven
good angels, and the seven bad, beginning with Jubanladace, first of the
good, a celestial messenger, helmeted, sworded with flame, and otherwise
beautiful to behold, and ending with Barman, the lowest of the bad, the
consort and ally of witches--I besought them all for what they could tell
me. Is the time of the running of the city now, to-morrow, next week--
when? Such the burden of my inquiry. As yet, my Lord, no answer has been
given. I am merely bid keep watch on the schism of the Church. In some
way the end we hope has connection with that rancor, if, indeed, it be
not the grand result. With clear discernment of the tendencies, the Roman
Pontiff is striving to lay the quarrel; but he speaks to a rising tide.
We cannot hasten the event; neither can he delay it. Our role is
patience--patience. At last Europe will fall away, and leave the Greek to
care of himself; then, my Lord, you have but to be ready. The end is in
the throes of its beginning now."

"Still you leave me in the dark," Mahommed cried, with a frown.

"Nay, my Lord, there is a chance for us to make the stars speak."

The beguiler appeared to hesitate.

"A chance?" Mahommed asked.

"It is dependent, my Lord."

"Upon what?"

"The life of the Sultan, thy father."

"Speak not in riddles, O Prince."

"Upon his death, thou wilt enter on the sovereignty."

"Still I see not clearly."

"With the horoscope of Mahommed the Sultan in my hand, then certainly as
the stars perform their circuits, being set thereunto from the first
morning, they must respond to me; and then, find I Mars in the Ascendant,
well dignified essentially and accidentally, I can lead my Lord out of
the darkness."

"Then, Prince?"

"He may see the Christian capital at his mercy."

"But if Mars be not in the Ascendant?"

"My Lord must wait."

Mahommed sprang to his feet, gnashing his teeth.

"My Lord," said the Prince, calmly, "a man's destiny is never
unalterable; it is like a pitcher filled with wine which he is carrying
to his lips--it may be broken on the way, and its contents spilled. Such
has often happened through impatience and pride. What is waiting but the
wise man's hour of preparation?"

The quiet manner helped the sound philosophy. Mahommed took seat,
remarking, "You remind me, Prince, of the saying of the Koran,
'Whatsoever good betideth thee, O man, it is from God, and whatsoever
evil betideth, from thyself is it.' I am satisfied. Only"--

The Prince summoned all his faculties again.

"Only I see two periods of waiting before me; one from this until I take
up the sovereignty; the other thence till thou bringest me the mandate
of the stars. I fear not the second period, for, as thou sayest, I can
then lose myself in making ready; but the first, the meantime--ah,
Prince, speak of it. Tell me how I can find surcease of the chafing of
my spirit."

The comprehension of the wily Hebrew did not fail him. His heart beat
violently. He was master! Once more he was in position to change the
world. A word though not more than "now," and he could marshal the East,
which he so loved, against the West, which he so hated. If Constantinople
failed him, Christianity must yield its seat to Islam. He saw it all
flash-like; yet at no time in the interview did his face betoken such
placidity of feeling. The _meantime_ was his, not Mahommed's--his to
lengthen or shorten--his for preparation. He could afford to be placid.

"There is much for my Lord to do," he said.

"When, O Prince--now?"

"It is for him to think and act as if Constantinople were his capital
temporarily in possession of another."

The words caught attention, and it is hard saying what Mahommed's
countenance betokened. The reader must think of him as of a listener
just awakened to a new idea of infinite personal concern.

"It is for him now to learn the city within and without," the Jew
proceeded; "its streets and edifices; its halls and walls; its strong
and weak places; its inhabitants, commerce, foreign relations; the
character of its ruler, his resources and policies; its daily events;
its cliques and clubs, and religious factions; especially is it for him
to foment the differences Latin and Greek."

It is questionable if any of the things imparted had been so effective
upon Mahommed as this one. Not only did his last doubt of the man
talking disappear; it excited a boundless admiration for him, and the
freshest novitiate in human nature knows how almost impossible it is to
refuse trust when once we have been brought to admire. "Oh!" Mahommed
cried. "A pastime, a pastime, if I could be there!"

"Nay, my Lord," said the insidious counsellor, with a smile, "how do
kings manage to be everywhere at the same time?"

"They have their Ambassadors. But I am not a king."

"Not yet a king"--the speaker laid stress upon the adverb--"nevertheless
public representation is one thing; secret agency another."

Mahommed's voice sank almost to a whisper.

"Wilt thou accept this agency?"

"It is for me to observe the heavens at night, while calculations will
take my days. I trust my Lord in his wisdom will excuse me."

"Where is one for the service? Name him, Prince--one as good."

"There is one better. Bethink you, my Lord, the business is of a long
time; it may run through years."

Mahommed's brow knit darkly at the reminder.

"And he who undertakes it should enter Constantinople and live there
above suspicion. He must be crafty, intelligent, courtly in manner,
accomplished in arms, of high rank, and with means to carry his state
bravely, for not only ought he to be conspicuous in the Hippodrome; he
should be welcome in the palace. Along with other facilities, he must be
provided to buy service in the Emperor's bedroom and council chamber--
nay, at his elbow. It is of prime importance that he possesses my Lord's
confidence unalterably. Am I understood?"

"The man, Prince, the man!"

"My Lord has already named him."

"I?"

"Only to-night my Lord spoke of him as a marvel."

"Mirza!" exclaimed Mahommed, clapping his hands.

"Mirza," the Prince returned, and proceeded without pause: "Despatch him
to Italy; then let him appear in Constantinople, embarked from a galley,
habited like a Roman, and with a suitable Italian title. He speaks
Italian already, is fixed in his religion, and in knightly honor. Not
all the gifts at the despot's disposal, nor the blandishments of society
can shake his allegiance--he worships my Lord."

"My servant has found much favor with you, O Prince?"

Accepting the remark as a question, the other answered:

"Did I not spend the night with him at El Zaribah? Was I not witness of
his trial of faith at the Holy Kaaba? Have I not heard from my Lord
himself how, when put to choice, he ignored my prohibition respecting
the stars?"

Mahommed arose, and again walked to and fro.

"There is a trouble in this proposal, Prince," he said, halting abruptly.
"So has Mirza become a part of me, I am scarcely myself without him."

Another turn across the floor, and he seemed to become reconciled. "Let
us have done for to-night," he next said. "The game is imperative, but it
will not be harmed by a full discussion. Stay with me to-morrow, Prince."

The Prince remembered the Emperor. Not unlikely a message from that high
personage was at his house, received in course of the day.

WASHBURN, EDMUND L. CHAMPLIN.

_District Secretaries._
Rev. C.J. RYDER, _21 Cong'l House, Boston, Mass._ Rev. J.E. ROY, D.D., _151
Washington Street, Chicago, Ill._ Rev. C.W. HIATT, _Cong'l Rooms,
Y.M.C.A. Building, Cleveland, Ohio._

_Financial Secretary for Indian Missions._
Rev. CHAS. W. SHELTON.

_Secretary of Woman's Bureau._ 
Miss D.E.

EMERSON, _Bible House, N.Y._

COMMUNICATIONS
Relating to the work of the Association may be addressed to the
Corresponding Secretaries; letters for "THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY,"
to the Editor, at the New York Office; letters relating to the
finances, to the Treasurer.

DONATIONS AND SUBSCRIPTIONS
In drafts, checks, registered letters, or post-office orders, may
be sent to H.W. Hubbard, Treasurer, Bible House, New York, or, when
more convenient, to either of the Branch Offices, 21 Congregational
House, Boston, Mass., 151 Washington Street, Chicago, Ill., or
Congregational Rooms, Y.M.C.A.

Building, Cleveland, Ohio. A payment of thirty dollars constitutes a
Life Member.

NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.--The date on the "address label," indicates the
time to which the subscription is paid.

Changes are made in date on label to the 10th of each month. If payment
of subscription be made afterward, the change on the label will
appear a month later.

Please send early notice of change in post-office address, giving the
former address and the new address, in order that our periodicals and
occasional papers may be correctly mailed.

FORM OF A BEQUEST.

"I bequeath to my executor (or executors) the sum of ---- dollars,
in trust, to pay the same in ---- days after my decease to the
person who, when the same is payable shall act as Treasurer of the
'American Missionary Association,' of New York City, to be applied,
under the direction of the Executive Committee of the Association,
to its charitable uses and purposes."

The Will should be attested by three witnesses.

* * * * *

THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY.
VOL. XLV. FEBRUARY, 1891. No. 2.
American Missionary Association.

_OUR LIST OF FIELD WORKERS._
We present herewith our usual February list of missionaries, in church
and school, through the field of the Association. In this list many
thousands of our readers will recognize familiar names, some through
personal associations and others through their long-time acquaintance
with the work of the Association.

It is no unimportant feature of the great principle of co-operation
on which our work is founded that we can reckon upon a large force of
long-tried and experienced workers in the field.

The Association has a wealth of wisdom in planning and carrying on
its work, by its ability to call into requisition the knowledge and
efforts of those who have spent many years in the South, and are
intimately acquainted with the needs, difficulties and advantages
of the work.

Many individualistic schemes have failed at this point; but the
Association has developed a force that can be relied upon for the
intelligent investigation of new openings, the prudent planning of
work and its wise and steady support and development.

At the same time, associated with our older workers, we have the younger
missionaries and teachers with their fresh enthusiasm and fervent zeal,
giving new impulse of activity all along the line. This long list
of names represents years of self-denying attention and steady
effort; it speaks of large progress in the past and is the presage
of still greater progress in the future, for the list grows year
by year.

Our resources and forces were never before so large as during the past
year, and we are encouraged to hope that they will be increased during
the year to come.

* * * * *

_FINANCIAL._
Our current receipts for December were nearly $52,000, an increase
of $11,000 over those of December, 1889.

For the first quarter of our present fiscal year the current receipts
amount to $106,000, as against $100,000 for the corresponding period
of last year. We thankfully appreciate every enlargement of our
resources, and shall continue to use our best endeavors to keep the
work within the means provided for it.
How difficult this is can be understood only by those who are in
constant receipt of numerous exigent calls for work in the great populations
among which our service lies. As a matter of record, notwithstanding
the utmost care on our part, while our receipts for this quarter
have gained $6,000 over those of last year, our expenses have
increased $12,000.

We are profoundly grateful for the increasing public interest and Christian
co-operation in the work of the American Missionary Association, and
hope that the gifts of the churches will continue to be accompanied by
their counsels and their prayers.

* * * * *

_THEOLOGICAL INSTRUCTION._
The association is undertaking to supply the serious need, met all along
its lines of missionary service, of a more intelligent and consecrated
ministry. For the use of our Biblical Training School for the
ministry, at Fisk University, we are engaged in the erection of
the building; and the work has been taken hold of by the Fisk University
Singers, who are meeting with cheering encouragement in the churches. It
is our hope that, within the coming year, an adequate structure may
be provided for this important work.

The theological department at Howard University has received a valuable
accession to its faculty in the person of Prof. Ewell. This work will
now be re-classified and developed, and will offer unexcelled advantages
for practical training in preparation for the gospel ministry.

* * * * *

_CONFERENCE WITH INDIAN COMMISSIONERS._

The Annual Conference of the Board of Indian Commissioners with the
representatives of the various religious bodies having charge of
Indian Missions was held in the parlors of the Riggs House, January
8th.

The presence of Senator Dawes, Representative Cutcheon, and other
distinguished persons, gave weight to the deliberations, and special
interest was added to the meeting by the troubles now prevailing
in the Dakotas among the Sioux Indians. Commissioner Morgan, Captain
Pratt of the Carlisle School, General Armstrong of Hampton, and the
Secretaries of the Missionary Societies presented an array of facts and
of recent information that gave a more favorable aspect to the situation
than is generally entertained.

The disturbance among the Indians is confined to at most 5,000 among
the 250,000, and strong hopes are entertained that serious bloodshed
may be avoided.

And yet, so great is the uncertainty hanging over this matter, that
before these lines reach our readers, the daily press may give sad
news of battle and disaster.

The discussions of the Conference were ended with a series of
resolutions, the purport of which may thus be summed up: The Dakota
trouble is confined to a small number of Indians, and is due to the
inevitable opposition of the chiefs and anti-progressive elements
among the masses of the Indians.

The removal of experienced Indian Agents for political reasons was
deprecated, and the importance of permanence in the lines of policy
pursued in the educational and Christianizing influences was
emphasized.

Larger appropriations by the Government to establish an adequate system
of common-school education, until every Indian child is enabled to
attend school, compulsory education and the continued support to
contract schools, and additional facilities for securing lands in
severalty to the Indians, were endorsed.

The decision which it was understood the Government had made, not to
transfer the care of the Indians to the War Department, was warmly
approbated

.

* * * * *

_THE INDIAN PROBLEM._
The present difficulties among the Indians in the Dakotas will probably
lead to a re-consideration of the whole system by which the Government
and the nation deals with these people.

As a contribution to that discussion, we present in condensed form some
suggestions recently published in a Boston paper, from our esteemed friend,
S.B. Capen, Esq., whose intelligent interest in the Indian entitles his
opinion to thoughtful consideration:

While public attention is everywhere called to this matter, it is time
to agitate for a radical change in the whole administration of the
Indian service. We believe that this should be disconnected entirely
from the Department of the Interior, and be made a _separate department_.
This whole Indian question is so important and so complex that it
ought not to be simply an annex to a department which has under its
control land, patents, etc.

It should stand by itself; there should no longer be a divided
responsibility, which is always productive of evil. We are finding the
necessity in our cities of making responsibility more direct and personal.
The time, we believe, has fully come to reorganize the Indian service
on this basis. Our criticism is not against any individual, but
against a system which is the growth of many years.

We would suggest the following;
1. Have the Commissioner of Indian Affairs responsible only to the
President and to the public.

What he does, or may do, shall not be controlled by the Department of
the Interior.

2. Ask Congress to provide such legislation that no agents or teachers
shall ever be removed without proper cause.

3. All inspectors and special agents shall be under the absolute control
of the Commissioner.

4. There shall be a division of the Indian reservation into school districts,
with an assistant superintendent for each. It shall be their duty to
visit the schools constantly, and keep themselves in full sympathy
and touch with the work.

This is the method in the States--an official responsible for a field
which he can properly cover.

* * * * *

_EDUCATORS' CONVENTION._
The recent Educators' Convention of Atlanta was a large and significant
gathering. Such consultations of teachers carry a wide and beneficial
influence.

We learn that the papers and addresses were of a high character, and
that the discussions were carried on with great interest, and we have
no doubt that the educational work throughout the South will feel the
upward impulse of this Convention.

We quote the following paragraph from the excellent report in the
_Congregationalist_:

The importance of the work of the Convention may be indicated by
the topics discussed: Education in Rural Districts, Relative Mortality
of the Colored Race, Hygiene, Industrial Training, Better Teaching
in the Elementary Grades, A Scientific Course in the College
Curriculum, Compulsory Education, What Can the Negro Do?

What the Ministry is Doing to Elevate the Freedmen.

A résumé was given of the educational work of the different denominations,
mainly by the secretaries of their educational societies. The reports
of the colored Methodist churches were especially interesting, as
indicating the gratifying extent to which the colored people are
taking hold of the work of their own education.

No paper of the Convention, however, was received with such
spontaneous enthusiasm and applause as the report of Dr. Beard of the
work of the American Missionary Association. It was the eloquence of
facts. The proceedings of the Association will constitute a large
volume, which will soon be published and widely circulated.

* * * * *

_"AN OPEN PATH FOR TALENT."_
Napoleon said this was the meaning of the French Revolution.

He gave promotion in the army not for what a man's ancestry had been, but
for what the man himself could do. Who else ever had such efficient
subordinates? Opportunities became open generally in France, according
to each one's personal ability. The excesses of the revolutionary period
were transitory. The enlargement of the nation's power, by removing the
fetters of prescription, has been permanent. The recuperative energy
displayed by France in the last twenty years is a marvelous example of
the strength imparted by liberty.

The educational work of the American Missionary Association in the
South makes no revolutionary disturbance.

It quietly opens a path for talent whose existence had been before
unnoticed or denied.

It has been already instrumental in bringing forward many men and
women to positions of influence.

Beginning with the lowest branches of education, it trained the
first colored teachers for the State school systems. Its schools for
higher education have as yet come far short of supplying the demand
for advanced teachers and for educated ministers and other educated
professional and business men.

We cannot make talent, but opening the door for talent to find
development and activity adds rich gifts to the Nation's life.

* * * * *

_IRRESPONSIBLE INSTITUTIONS._
_The Independent_, in its Symposium of December 11th upon Gen. Booth's
Plan, has an article from Charles D. Kellogg, Superintendent of the
Charity Organization Society, in which, referring to a certain
irresponsible piece of charity, he says:
We do not believe that it is right for any one to ask for the support
of such an individual enterprise, except from those who give it
because of personal knowledge and confidence in the manager.

When the public is appealed to, such contributions take on the nature of
trust funds, the receipts and disbursements of which should be audited
and accounted for in the fullest and frankest manner. To encourage
such private, uncontrolled and unaccounted for undertakings, is simply to
open the door for any number of conscienceless schemers who are quick
to impose upon the benevolent public.

The same is true of irresponsible educational institutions.

All who receive funds for such charitable purposes, are virtually stewards
of _trust money_ and ought to give an account of the same. All properties
thus developed ought to be put into a shape to be held securely and
perpetuated, and not left to become the personal possession of the
solicitors. Pious zeal and "faith" do not prevent the waste in such a
case. "Wisdom would not put cut and hammer-faced stone for the
foundation of a mountain school house, and costly glass in the windows,"
but "faith" has done this, and keeps on doing similar things.

* * * * *

_NOTES FROM NEW ENGLAND._
By District Secretary C.J. Ryder, Boston, Mass.

TWO WAYS OF DOING IT.

"So you have come! Well! I don't know but it is just as favorable a time
as any. Still, we are in a very pinched condition. We have a debt that
we have carried for ten years and have scarcely been able to pay the
interest. The parsonage is in a desperate condition, and we are very far
from comfortable in it. Secretary Hood was here two months ago, and
he stirred the people up and took all that ought to be given to any of
our Benevolent Societies. Then, a month ago, Puddefoot was here,
and you know he sweeps in everything that can possibly be reached. I
sometimes think that he awakens too much interest, and that the churches
give too large collections. Our women are all interested in the American
Board, and will not feel like doing much for the American Missionary
Association Still, it is the time for our annual collection, and I
think no harm can come from an address on the A.M.A. work to-morrow.

We are very glad to see you."
_This is one way._
"How do you do, dear old friend? I declare, it seems as if I had known you
a life-time. I am ever so glad you could come and speak to my church
to-morrow. We need stirring up tremendously. Although my people are a
large-hearted, generous people, they are so much absorbed with our
own interests here, that I fear sometimes they do not appreciate
the larger work done through the Benevolent Societies.

Secretary Creegan was here a little while ago and took away a splendid
collection, but he left a lot of ripe grain to be gathered in the harvest
of some other society. Then, dear old Puddefoot came here and
rattled the dry bones till he made living men and women out of
some of the skeletons. He took away one of the largest checks that
ever went from our congregation to any benevolent cause.

Secretary Maile presented the work of the College and Education Society
in such a way as to rouse the people to a sense of its great importance.
We are wonderfully glad to see you and you see are all ready for
another ingathering to-morrow.

These brethren have left more than they took away in money, and have
enlarged the scope of vision of a good many people.

They see the importance and the growing needs of these Mission fields,
as never before.

Put in your best blows to-morrow. Don't be afraid that you will take
anything away that ought to remain in the community; that isn't possible.
God bless you in the splendid work the A.M.A. is doing!"
Now, brethren, these are two typical ways of meeting the collecting
Secretary when he calls.

_Which is the better way?_
* * * * *

WHAT THE YOUNG PEOPLE AND CHILDREN ARE DOING THROUGH THE AMERICAN
MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION.

The readers of this department of the AMERICAN MISSIONARY magazine will
remember that some time ago the Busy Bees in the First Church in
Dover, N.H., contributed money enough to furnish the nucleus of a
greatly needed Reference Library at Gregory Institute, Wilmington,
N.C.

This was the beginning of several such movements on the part of the young
people and children. The Y.P.S.C.E. of Dorchester contributed a
goodly sum for the establishment of such a library at Grand View,
Tenn. A gift toward the work in Alaska comes from the Y.P.S.C.E. at
Dedham. A good many Sunday-schools have also contributed both to
the general fund and to special objects. In Gorham, Maine, the
children were greatly interested in the Stereopticon Exhibition,
which was conducted by our faithful missionary, Rev. S.E. Lathrop.
Three of them determined to give something substantial to this work.
In order to raise money, they held a Fair, making with their own
hands many of the articles that were for sale. This resulted in a
considerable amount, which was supplemented by a gift from the
Sunday-school to constitute one of these children, Robert Hinkley,
a boy eight years of age, a Life Member of the American Missionary
Association. Is he not the youngest Life Member of our Association?
Cannot we have some letters from our friends giving the ages of
children who are Life Members? If any feel disposed to "beat the
record" by the payment of thirty dollars, they can confer this honor
upon their baby boy or girl. One baby in New England, at least, has
contributed to the work among the millions of neglected children,
just by being born. The father, a pastor of one of our churches,
hands into the treasury each year one dollar for each pound the
baby weighs. When this is known, there will be many of our missionaries
who will be praying for the health and rapid growth of that baby!
In Melrose, also, the "Golden Rule Mission Band" are helping our
great work, and at the same time gaining an intelligent knowledge
of this field. At the beginning of the summer one dollar and
twenty-five cents was distributed among them, each one taking five
cents. This was the seed from which they reaped a harvest of
twenty-six dollars.The Dean pursed his white-bearded mouth, and posed himself proudly; but
his auditor still holding her peace, he leaned forward further, and
whispered, "My dear Princess, I did more. I mentioned you to His
Majesty"--

The Princess started to her feet, whiter than whitest marble in the
Pentelic panelling of the room; yet in total misapprehension of her
feeling, the venerable intriguant went on without pause: "Yes, I
mentioned you to His Majesty, and to-morrow, Princess--to-morrow--he
will come here in person to see you, and urge his suit."

He dropped on his knees, and catching her hand, kissed it.

"O Princess, fairest and most worthy, suffer me first of all the court
to congratulate you on the superlative honor to which you will he
invited. And when you are in the exalted position, may I hope to he
remembered"--

He was not permitted to finish the petition. Withdrawing her hand with
decisive action, she bade him be silent or speak to her questions. And
he was silent through surprise.

In such manner she gained an interval for thought. The predicament, as
she saw it, was troublesome and unfortunate. Honor was intended her, the
highest in the imperial gift, and the offer was coming with never a
doubt of its instantaneous and grateful acceptance. Remembering her
obligations to the Emperor, her eyes filled with tears. She respected
and venerated him, yet could not be his Empress. The great title was not
a sufficient inducement. But how manage the rejection? She called on the
Virgin for help. Directly there was a way exposed. First, she must save
her benefactor from rejection; second, the Dean and the court must never
know of the course of the affair or its conclusion.

"Rise, my Lord," she said, kindly though with firmness. "The receiver of
great news, I thank you, and promise, if ever I attain the throne to
hold you in recollection. But now, so am I overwhelmed by the prospect,
I am not myself. Indeed, my Lord, would you increase my indebtedness to
its utmost limit, take every acknowledgment as said, and leave me--leave
me for preparation for the morrow's event. God, his Son and angels only
know the awfulness of my need of right direction and good judgment."

He had the wit to see her agitation, and that it was wisest for him to
depart.

"I will go, Princess," he said, "and may the Holy Mother give you of her
wisdom also." She detained him at the door to ask: "Only tell me, my
Lord, did His Majesty send you with this notice?"

"His Majesty honored me with the message."

"At what hour will he come?"

"In the forenoon."

"Report, I pray you then, that my house will be at his service."


CHAPTER XVII

THE EMPEROR'S WOOING


About ten o'clock the day following the extraordinary announcement
given, a galley of three banks of oars, classed a _trireme_, rounded
the seaward jut of the promontory overhanging the property of the
Princess Irene at Therapia.

The hull of the vessel was highly ornate with gilding and carving. At
the how, for figure-head, there was an image of the Madonna of the
_Panagia_, or Holy Banner of Constantinople. The broad square sail
was of cherry-red color, and in excellent correspondence, the oars,
sixty to a side, were painted a flaming scarlet. When filled, the sail
displayed a Greek cross in golden filament. The deck aft was covered
with a purple awning, in the shade of which, around a throne, sat a
grave and decorous company in gorgeous garments; and among them moved a
number of boys, white-shirted and bare of head, dispensing perfume from
swinging censers. Forward, a body guard, chosen from the household
troops and full armed, were standing at ease, and they, with a corps of
trumpeters and heralds in such splendor of golden horns and tabards of
gold as to pour enrichment over the whole ship, filled the space from
bulwark to bulwark. The Emperor occupied the throne.

This galley, to which the harmonious movement of the oars gave a
semblance of life, in the distance reminding one of a great bird
fantastically feathered and in slow majestic motion, was no sooner hove
in sight than the townspeople were thrown into ferment. A flotilla of
small boats, hastily launched, put out in racing order to meet and
escort it into the bay, and before anchorage was found, the whole shore
was astir and in excited babblement.

A detachment of the guard was first landed on the quay in front of the
Princess' gate. Accepting the indication, thither rushed the populace;
for in truth, since the occupation of the Asiatic shore of the Bosphorus
by the Turks, the Emperor seldom extended his voyages far as Therapia.
Then, descending the sides by carpeted stairs, the suite disembarked,
and after them, amidst a tremendous flourish from the trumpet corps,
Constantine followed.

The Emperor, in his light boat, remained standing during the passage to
the shore that he might be seen by the people; and as he then appeared,
helmed and in close-fitting cuirass, his arms in puffed sleeves of red
silk, his legs, below a heavily embroidered narrow skirt, clothed in
pliant chain mail intricately linked, his feet steel-shod, a purple
cloak hanging lightly at the back from neck to heel, and spurred and
magnificently sworded, and all agleam with jewels and gold, it must be
conceded he justified his entitlement.

At sight of his noble countenance, visible under the raised visor, the
spectators lifted their voices in hearty acclamations--"God and
Constantine! Live the Emperor!"

It really seemed as if the deadly factiousness of the capital had not
reached Therapia. In the lifted head, the brightened eyes, the gracious
though stately bows cast right and left, Constantine published the
pleasure the reception was giving him.

A long flourish timed his march through the kiosk of the gate, and along
the shell-strewn, winding road, to the broad steps leading to the
portico of the palace; there, ascending first, he was received by the
Princess.

Amid a group of maids in attendance, all young, fair, high-born, she
stood, never more tastefully attired, never more graceful and
self-possessed, never more lovely, not even in childhood before the
flitting of its virginal bloom; and though the portico was garden-like
in decoration, vines, roses and flowering shrubs everywhere, the
sovereign had eyes for her alone.

Just within the line of fluted pillars he halted, and drew himself up,
smiling as became a suitor, yet majestic as became a king. Then she
stepped forward, and knelt, and kissed his hand, and when he helped her
to her feet, and before the flush on her forehead was gone, she said:

"Thou art my sovereign and benefactor; nor less for the goodnesses thou
hast done to thy people, and art constantly doing, welcome, O my Lord,
to the house thou didst give me."

"Speak not so," he replied. "Or if it please thee to give me credit, be
it for the things which in some way tried me, not those I did for
reward."

"Reward!"

"Ay, for such are pleasure and peace of mind."

Then one by one, she naming them as they advanced, her attendants knelt,
and kissed the floor in front of him, and had each a pleasant word, for
he permitted none to excel him in decorous gallantry to good women.

In return, he called the officers of his company according to their rank;
his brother, who had afterward the grace to die with him; the Grand
Domestic, general of the army; the Grand Duke Notaras, admiral of the
navy; the Grand Equerry (_Protostrator_); the Grand Chancellor of the
Empire (_Logothete_); the Superintendent of Finance; the Governor of the
Palace (_Curopalate_); the Keeper of the Purple Ink; the Keeper of the
Secret Seal; the First Valet; the Chief of the Night Guard (_Grand
Drumgaire_); the Chief of the Huntsmen (_Protocynege_); the Commander of
the Body Guard of Foreigners (_Acolyte_); the Professor of Philosophy;
the Professor of Elocution and Rhetoric; the Attorney General
(_Nornophylex_); the Chief Falconer (_Protojeracaire_) and others--these
he called one by one, and formally presented to the Princess, not minding
that with many of them she was already acquainted.

They were for the most part men advanced in years, and right well
skilled in the arts of courtiership. The _empressement_ of manner
with which they saluted her was not lost upon her woman's instinct;
infinitely quick and receptive, she knew without a word spoken, that
each left his salute on her hand believing it the hand of his future
Empress. Last of those presented was the Dean of the Court. He was
noticeably formal and distant; besides being under the eye of his
master, the wily diplomat was more doubtful of the outcome of the day's
visit than most of his colleagues.

"Now," the Princess said, when the presentation was finished, "will my
most noble sovereign suffer me to conduct him to the reception room?"

The Emperor stepped to her side, and offered his hand. "Pardon, Sire,"
she added, taking the hand. "It is necessary that I speak to the Dean."

And when the worthy came to her, she said to him: "Beyond this, under
the portico, are refreshments for His Majesty's suite. Serve me, I pray,
by leading thy colleagues thither, and representing me at the tables.
Command the servants whom thou wilt find there."

Now the reader must not suppose he is having in the foregoing
descriptions examples of the style of ceremonials most in fashion at the
Greek court. Had formality been intended, the affair would have been the
subject of painstaking consideration at a meeting of officials in the
imperial residence, and every point within foresight arranged; after
which the revolution of the earth might have quickened, and darkness
been unnaturally precipitated, without inducing the slightest deviation
from the programme.

When resolving upon the visit, Constantine considerately thought of the
Princess' abhorrence of formality, and not to surprise her, despatched
the Dean with notice of the honor intended. Whereupon she arranged the
reception to suit herself; that is, so as to remain directress of the
occasion. Hence the tables under the portico for the entertainment of
the great lords, with the garden open to them afterward. This management,
it will be perceived, left Constantine in her separate charge.

So, while the other guests went with the Dean, she conducted the Emperor
to the reception room, where there were no flowers, and but one armless
chair. When he was seated, the two alone, she knelt before him, and
without giving him time to speak, said, her hands crossed upon her
bosom: "I thank my Lord for sending me notice of his coming, and of his
purpose to invite me to share his throne. All night I have kept the
honor he intended me in mind, believing the Blessed Mother would listen
to my prayers for wisdom and right direction; and the peace and
confidence I feel, now that I am at my Lord's feet, must be from her....
Oh, my Lord, the trial has not been what I should do with the honor,
but how to defend you from humiliation in the eyes of your court. I wish
to be at the same time womanly and allegiant. How gentle and merciful
you have been to me! How like a benignant God to my poor father! If I am
in error, may Heaven forgive me; but I have led you here to say, without
waiting for the formal proposal, that while you have my love as a
kinswoman and subject, I cannot give you the love you should have from a
wife."

Constantine was astonished.

"What!" he said.

Before he could get further, she continued, sinking lower at his feet:

"Ah me, my Lord, if now thou art thinking me bold and forward, and
outcast from natural pride, what can I but plead the greater love I bear
you as my benefactor and sovereign? ... It may be immodest to thus
forestall my Lord's honorable intent, and decline being his wife before
he has himself proposed it; yet I pray him to consider that with this
avowal from me, he may go hence and affirm, God approving the truth,
that he thought better of his design, and did not make me any overture
of marriage, and there will be no one to suffer but me.... The
evil-minded will talk, and judge me punished for my presumption. Against
them I shall always have a pure conscience, and the knowledge of having
rescued my Lord from an associate on his throne who does not love him
with wifely devotion."

Pausing there, the Princess looked into his face, her own suffused. His
head drooped; insomuch that the tall helmet with its glitter, and the
cuirass, and fine mail reenforced by the golden spurs and jewelled
sword and sword-harness, but deepened the impression of pain bewrayed on
his countenance.

"Then it is as I have heard," he said, dejectedly. "The rustic hind may
have the mate of his choice, and there is preference allowed the bird
and wild wolf. The eye of faith beholds marriages of love in meeting
waters and in clouds brought together from diverse parts. Only Kings are
forbidden to select mates as their hearts declare. I, a master of life
and death, cannot woo, like other men."

The Princess moved nearer him.

"My Lord," she said, earnestly, "is it not better to be denied choice
than to be denied after choosing?"

"Speakest thou from experience?" he asked.

"No," she answered, "I have never known love except of all God's
creatures alike."

"Whence thy wisdom then?"

"Perhaps it is only a whisper of pride."

"Perhaps, perhaps! I only know the pain it was intended to relieve goes
on." Then, regarding her moodily, not angrily, nor even impatiently, he
continued: "Did I not know thee true as thou art fair, O Princess, and
good and sincere as thou art brave, I might suspect thee."

"Of what, my Lord?"

"Of an intent to compass my misery. Thou dost stop my mouth. I may not
declare the purpose with which I came--I to whom it was of most interest
--or if I do, I am forestopped saying, 'I thought better of it, and told
her nothing.' Yet it was an honorable purpose nursed by sweet dreams, and
by hopes such as souls feed upon, strengthening themselves for trials of
life; I must carry it back with me, not for burial in my own breast, but
for gossips to rend and tear, and make laughter of--the wonder and
amusement of an unfeeling city. How many modes of punishment God keeps in
store for the chastening of those who love Him!"

"It is beggarly saying I sympathize"--

"No, no--wait!" he cried, passionately. "Now it breaks upon me. I may
not offer thee a seat on my throne, or give a hand to help thee up to
it; for the present I will not declare I love thee; yet harm cannot come
of telling thee what has been. Thou hadst my love at our first meeting.
I loved thee then. As a man I loved thee, nor less as an Emperor because
a man. Thou wast lovely with the loveliness of the angels. I saw thee in
a light not of earth, and thou wert transparent as the light. I descended
from the throne to thee thinking thou hadst collected all the radiance of
the sun wasting in the void between stars, and clothed thyself in it."

"Oh, my Lord"--

"Not yet, not yet"--

"Blasphemy and madness!"

"Be it so!" he answered, with greater intensity. "This once I speak as a
lover who was--a lover making last memories of the holy passion, to be
henceforth accounted dead. Dead? Ah, yes!--to me--dead to me!"

She timidly took the hand he dropped upon his knee at the close of a
long sigh.

"It may rest my Lord to hear me," she said, tearfully. "I never doubted
his fitness to be Emperor, or if ever I had such a doubt, it is no more.
He has conquered himself! Indeed, indeed, it is sweet to hear him tell
his love, for I am woman; and if I cannot give it back measure for
measure, this much may be accepted by him--I have never loved a man, and
if the future holds such a condition in store for me, I will think of my
Lord, and his strength and triumph, and in my humbler lot do as he has
so nobly done. He has his Empire to engage him, and fill his hours with
duties; I have God to serve and obey with singleness. Out of the prison
where my mother died, and in which my father grew old counting his years
as they slowly wore away, a shadow issued, and is always at hand to ask
me, 'Who art thou? What right hast thou to happiness?' And if ever I
fall into the thought so pleasant to woman, of loving and being loved,
and of marriage, the shadow intervenes, and abides with me until I
behold myself again bounden to religion, a servant vowed to my fellow
creatures sick, suffering, or in sorrow."

Then the gentle Emperor fell to pitying her, and asked, forgetful of
himself, and thinking of things to lighten her lot, "Wilt thou never
marry?"

"I will not say no, my Lord," she answered. "Who can foresee the turns
of life? Take thou this in reply--never will I surrender myself to
wedlock under urgency of love alone. But comes there some great
emergency, when, by such sacrifice, I may save my country, or my
countrymen in multitude, or restore our holy religion overthrown or in
danger, then, for the direct God-service there may be in it, I could
give myself in contract, and would."

"Without love?" he asked.

"Yes, without loving or being loved. This body is not mine, but God's,
and He may demand it of me for the good of my fellow-men; and, so there
be no tarnishment of the spirit, my Lord, why haggle about the husk in
which the spirit is hidden?"

She spoke with enthusiasm. Doubt of her sincerity would have been
blasphemous. That such fate should be for her, so bright, pure and
heroic! Not while he had authority! And in the instant he vowed himself
to care of her by resolution strong as an oath. In thought of the
uncertainties lowering over his own future, he saw it was better she
should remain vowed to Heaven than to himself; thereupon he arose, and
standing at her side, laid a hand lightly upon her head, and said
solemnly:

"Thou hast chosen wisely. May the Blessed Mother, and all the ministering
angels, in most holy company, keep guard lest thou be overtaken by
calamity, sorrow and disappointment. And, for me, O Irene!"--his voice
shook with emotion--"I shall be content if now thou wilt accept me for
thy father."

She raised her eyes, as to Heaven, and said, smiling: "Dear God! How
Thou dost multiply goodnesses, and shower them upon me!"

He stooped, and kissed her forehead.

"Amen, sweet daughter!"

Then he helped her to her feet.

"Now, while thou wert speaking, Irene, it was given me to see how the
betrothal I was determined upon would have been a crime aside from
wresting thee from the service of thy choice. Phranza is a true and
faithful servant. How know I but, within his powers, and as he lawfully
might, he has contracted me by treaty to acceptance of the Georgian?
Thou hast saved me, and my ancient Chamberlain. Those under the portico
are conspirators. But come, let us join them."


CHAPTER XVIII

THE SINGING SHEIK


IT was about ten o'clock when the Emperor and Princess Irene appeared on
the portico, and, moving toward the northern side, wended slowly through
the labyrinth of flowers, palms, and shrubs. The courtiers and
dignitaries, upon their approach, received them in respectful silence,
standing in groups about the tables.

A chair, with arms, high back, and a canopy, looking not unlike a
sedilium, had been set in an open space. The reservation was further
marked by a table in front of the chair, and two broad-branched palm
trees, one on each side. Thither the Princess conducted the sovereign;
and when he was seated, at a signal from her, some chosen attendants
came bearing refreshments, cold meats, bread, fruits, and wines in
crystal flagons, which they placed on the table, and retiring a little
way, remained in waiting, while their mistress, on a stool at the left
of the board, did the honors.

The introduction of a queen into a palace is usually the signal for a
change of the existing domestic regime. Old placeholders go out; new
favorites come in; and not seldom the revolution reaches the highest
official circles of the government. The veterans of the suite, to some
of whom this bit of knowledge had come severely home, were very watchful
of the two superior personages. Had His Majesty really exposed his
intent to the Princess? Had he declared himself to her? Had she
accepted? The effect was to trebly sharpen the eyes past which the two
were required to go on their way to the reserved table.

Mention has been made of Phranza, the Grand Chamberlain, at the moment
absent on a diplomatic search for an imperial consort. Of all attaches
of the court, he was first in his master's regard; and the distinction,
it is but just to say, was due to his higher qualities and superior
character. The term _favorite_, as a definition of relationship
between a despot and a dependent, is historically cloudy; wherefore it
is in this instance of unfair application. Intimate or confidante is
much more exactly descriptive. But be that as it may, the good
understanding between the Emperor and his Grand Chamberlain was amply
sufficient to provoke the jealousy of many of the latter's colleagues,
of whom Duke Notaras, Grand Admiral, and the most powerful noble of the
Empire, was head and front. The scheme for the elevation of the Princess
to the throne originated with him, and was aimed malevolently at
Phranza, of whom he was envious, and Constantine, whom he hated on
religious grounds. Interest in the plot brought him to Therapia; yet he
held himself aloof, preferring the attitude of a spectator coldly polite
to that of an active partisan in the affair. He declined sitting at a
table, but took position between two of the columns whence the view of
the bay was best. There were numbers of the suite, however, who
discredited the motive with which he chose the place.

"See Notaras," said one of a group, whispering to friends drinking wine
a little way off. "The scene before him is charming, but is he charmed
with it as he appears?"

"There was an old demi-god with an eye in his forehead. Notaras' best
orb just now is in the back of his head. He may be looking at the bay;
he is really watching the portico"--such was the reply.

"Out! He cares nothing for us."

"Very true--we are not the Emperor."

"My Lord Duke is not happy to-day," was remarked in another coterie.

"Wait, my dear friend. The day is young."

"If this match should not be made after all"--

"He will know it first."

"Yes, nothing from the lovers, neither smile nor sigh, can escape him."

The Professor of Philosophy and his brother the Professor of Rhetoric
ate and drank together, illustrating the affinity of learning.

"Our Phranza is in danger," said the latter, nervously. "As thou art a
subscriber to the doctrine of the _Phaedon_, I wish we could disembody
our souls, if only for an hour."

"Oh, a singular wish! What wouldst thou?"

"Tell it not; but"--the voice dropped into a whisper--"I would despatch
mine in search of the wise Chamberlain to warn him of what is here in
practice."

"Ah, my brother, thou didst me the honor to read and approve my treatise
on the Philosophy of Conspiracy. Dost thou remember the confounding
elements given in the thesis?"

"Yes--Goodness is one."

"Under condition; that is, when the result is dependent upon a party of
virtuous disposition."

"I remember now."

"Well, we have the condition here."

"The Princess!"

"And therefore the Duke, not our Phranza, is in danger. She will
discomfit him."

"May Heaven dispose so!" And the Rhetorician almost immediately added,
"Observe thou. Notaras has established himself within easy hearing of
the two. He has actually invaded the space reserved for them."

"As if to confirm my forecast!"

Then the Philosopher raised a cup.

"To Phranza!"

"To Phranza!" the Rhetorician responded.

This episode hardly concluded when the Emperor's brother sauntered to
the Duke's side; and on the appearance of the Emperor and the Princess,
he exclaimed, enthusiastically:

"Come of it what may, my Lord, the damsel is comely, and I fear not to
compare her with the best of Trebizond or Georgia."

The Duke did not answer. Indeed, the lords were all intent upon exactly
the same subject. Whether there had been an overture and an acceptance,
or an overture and a declination, they believed the principals could not
conceal the result; a look, a gesture, or something in the manner of one
or both of them, would tell the tale to eyes of such practical
discernment. By the greater number the information would be treated as
news for discussion merely; a few had hopes or fears at stake; none of
them was so perilously involved as Notaras; in his view, failure meant
the promotion of Phranza, of all consequences, not excepting his own
loss of favor and prestige, the most intolerable.

On the other part, Constantine was not less concerned in misleading his
court. At the proper time he would give out that he had changed his mind
at the last moment; before engaging himself to the Princess, he had
concluded it best to wait and hear from Phranza. Accordingly, in passing
along the portico, he endeavored to look and behave like a guest; he
conversed in an ordinary tone; he suffered his hostess to precede him;
and, well seconded by her, he was installed in the state chair, without
an argument yes or no for the sharp reviewers. At the table he appeared
chiefly solicitous to appease an unusual hunger, which he charged to the
early morning air on the Bosphorus.

Notaras, whom nothing of incident, demeanor or remark escaped, began
very early to be apprehensive. Upon beholding his master's unlover-like
concession to appetite, he remarked sullenly, "Verily, either his
courage failed, and he did not submit a proposal, or she has rejected
him."

"My Lord Duke," the Emperor's brother replied, somewhat stung, "dost
thou believe it in woman to refuse such an honor?"

"Sir," the Duke retorted, "women who go about unveiled are above or
below judgment."

The Princess, in her place at the table, began there to recount her
adventure at the White Castle, but when far enough in the recital to
indicate its course the Emperor interrupted her.

"Stay, daughter," he said, gently. "The incident may prove of
international interest. If not objectionable to you, I should be pleased
to have some of my friends hear it." Then raising his voice, he called
out: "Notaras, and thou, my brother, come, stand here. Our fair hostess
had yesterday an astonishing experience with the Turks on the other
shore, and I have prevailed on her to narrate it." The two responded to
the invitation by drawing nearer the Emperor at his right hand.

"Proceed now, daughter," the latter said.

"Daughter, daughter, indeed!" the Duke repeated to himself, and so
bitterly it may be doubted if his master's diplomacy availed to put him
at rest. The paternalism of the address was decisive--Phranza had won.

Then, presently overcoming her confusion, the Princess succeeded in
giving a simple but clear account of how she was driven to the Castle,
and of what befell her while there. When she finished, the entire suite
were standing about the table listening.

Twice she had been interrupted by the Emperor.

"A moment!" he said to her, while she was speaking of the Turkish
soldiery whose arrival at the ancient stronghold had been so nearly
simultaneous with her own. Then he addressed himself to the Grand
Domestic and the Admiral. "My Lords, in passing the Castle, on our way
up, you remember I bade the pilot take our ship near the shore there. It
seemed to me the garrison was showing unusually large, while the flags
on the donjon were strange, and the tents and horses around the walls
implied an army present. You remember?"

"And we have now, Sire, the justification of your superior wisdom," the
Grand Domestic replied, rising from a low salutation.

"I recall the circumstance, my Lords, to enjoin you not to suffer the
affair to slip attention when next we meet in council--I pray pardon,
daughter, for breaking the thread of your most interesting and important
narrative. I am prepared to listen further."

Then, after description of the Governor, and his reception of the
fugitives on the landing, His Majesty, with apologies, asked permission
to offer another inquiry.

"Of a truth, daughter, the picture thou hast given us under the title of
Governor beareth no likeness to him who hath heretofore responded to
that dignity. At various times I have had occasion to despatch messengers
to the commandant, and returning, they have reported him a coarse,
unrefined, brutish-looking person, of middle age and low rank; and much I
marvel to hear the freedom with which this person doth pledge my august
friend and ally, Sultan Amurath. My Lords, this will furnish us an
additional point of investigation. Obviously the Castle is of military
importance, requiring an old head full of experience to keep it regardful
of peace and clear understanding between the powers plying the Bosphorus.
We are always to be apprehensive of the fire there is in young blood."

"With humility, Your Majesty," said the Grand Domestic, "I should like
to hear from the Princess, whose loveliness is now not more remarkable
than her courage and discretion, the evidence she has for the opinion
that the young man is really the Governor."

She was about to reply when Lysander, the old servant, elbowed himself
through the brilliant circle, and dropped his javelin noisily by her
chair.

"A stranger calling himself an Arab is at the gate," he said to her,
with the semblance of a salutation.

The simplicity of the ancient, his zeal in the performance of his office,
his obliviousness to the imperial presence, caused a ripple of amusement.

"An Arab!" the Princess exclaimed, in momentary forgetfulness. "How does
the man appear?"

Lysander was in turn distraught; after a short delay, however, he
managed to answer: "His face is dark, almost black; his head is covered
with a great cloth of silk and gold; a gown hides him from neck to
heels; in his girdle there is a dagger. He has a lordly air, and does
not seem in the least afraid. In brief, my mistress, he looks as if he
might be king of all the camel drivers in the world."

The description was unexpectedly graphic; even the Emperor smiled, while
many of the train, presuming license from his amusement, laughed aloud.
In the midst of the merriment, the Princess, calmly, and with scarce a
change from her ordinary tone, proceeded to an explanation.

"Your Majesty," she said, "I am reminded of an invitation left with the
person whose identity was in discussion the instant of this announcement.
In the afternoon, while I was sojourning in the White Castle, an Arab
story-teller was presented to me under recommendation of my courteous
host. He was said to be of great professional renown in the East, a Sheik
travelling to Adrianople for the divertisement of the Hanoum of the
Sultan. In the desert they call him endearingly the _Singing Sheik_. I
was glad to have the hours assisted in their going, and he did not
disappoint me. So charmed was I by his tales and manner of telling them,
by his genius, that in taking my departure from what proved a most
agreeable retreat, and in acknowledging the hospitable entertainment
given me, I referred to the singer, and requested the Governor to prevail
on him to extend his journey here, in order to favor me with another
opportunity to hear him. Had I then known it was in my Lord's purposes to
visit me with such a company of most noble gentlemen, or could I have
even anticipated the honor, I should not have appointed to-day for the
audience with him. But he is in attendance; and now, with full
understanding of the circumstances, it is for Your Majesty to pronounce
upon his admission. Perhaps"--she paused with a look of deprecation
fairly divisible share and share alike between the Emperor and the Lords
around her--"perhaps time may hang heavy with my guests this morning; if
so, I shall hold myself obliged to the Singing Sheik if he can help me
entertain them."

Now, was there one present to attach a criticism to the favor extended
the Arab, he dismissed it summarily, wondering at her easy grace. The
Emperor no doubt shared the admiration with his suite; but concealing
it, he said, with an air of uncertainty, "Thy recommendation, daughter,
is high; and if I remain, verily, it will be with expectation wrought up
to a dangerous degree; yet having often heard of the power of the
strolling poets of whom this one is in probability an excellent example,
I confess I should be pleased to have thee admit him."

Of the Admiral, he then asked, "We were to set out in return about noon,
were we not?"

"About noon, Your Majesty."

"Well, the hour is hardly upon us. Let the man appear, daughter; only,
as thou lovest us, contrive that he keep to short recitals, which,
without holding us unwillingly, will yet suffice to give an idea of his
mind and methods. And keep thyself prepared for an announcement of our
departure, and when received, mistake it not for discontent with
thyself. Admit the Arab."


CHAPTER XIX

TWO TURKISH TALES


The situation now offered the reader is worth a pause, if only to fix it
in mind.

Constantine and Mahommed, soon to be contestants in war, are coming face
to face, lovers both of the same woman. The romance is obvious; yet it
is heightened by another circumstance. One of them is in danger.

We of course know Aboo-Obeidah, the Singing Sheik, is Prince Mahommed in
disguise; we know the Prince also as heir of Amurath the Sultan, a very
old man liable to vacate place and life at any moment. Suppose now the
rash adventurer--the term fits the youth truly as if he were without
rank--should be discovered and denounced to the Emperor. The
consequences can only be treated conjecturally.

In the first place, to what extremities the Prince would be put in
explaining his presence there. He could plead the invitation of the
Princess Irene. But his rival would be his judge, and the judge might
find it convenient to laugh at the truth, and rest his decision on the
prisoner's disguise, in connection with his own presence--two facts
sufficiently important to serve the most extreme accusation.

Constantine, next, was a knightly monarch who knew to live nobly, and
dared die as he lived; yet, thinking of what he might do with Mahommed
fallen into his hands under circumstances so peculiar, there was never a
Caesar not the slave of policy. In the audience to Manuel the sailor, we
have seen how keenly sensitive he was to the contraction the empire had
suffered. Since that day, to be sure, he had managed to keep the
territory he came to; none the less, he felt the Turk to whom the stolen
provinces invariably fell was his enemy, and that truce or treaty with
him did not avail to loosen the compression steadily growing around his
capital. Over and over, daytime and night, the unhappy Emperor pondered
the story of the daughter of Tantalus; and often, starting from dreams
in which the Ottoman power was a serpent slowly crawling to its victim,
he would cry in real agony--"O Constantinople--Niobe! Who can save thee
but God? And if He will not--alas, alas!" The feeling thus engendered
was not of a kind to yield readily to generosity. Mahommed once securely
his, everything might be let go--truth, honor, glory--everything but the
terms of advantage purchasable with such an hostage.

The invitation to the imaginary Sheik had been a last act of grace by
Irene, about to embark for the city. Mahommed, when he accepted, knew
Therapia by report a village very ancient historically, but decaying,
and now little more than a summer resort and depot of supplies for
fishermen. That its proverbial quietude would be disturbed, and the
sleepy blood of its inhabitants aroused, by a royal galley anchoring in
the bay to discharge the personnel of the empire itself, could have had
no place in his anticipations. So when he stepped into a boat, the
Aboo-Obeidah of his eulogy, and suffered himself, without an attendant,
to be ferried across to Roumeli-Hissar; when he there took an humble
wherry of two oars, and bade the unliveried Greeks who served them pull
for Therapia, it was to see again the woman who was taking his fancy
into possession, not Constantine and his court bizarre in splendor and
habitude. In other words, Mahommed on setting out had no idea of danger.
Love, or something very like it, was his sole inspiration.

The trireme, with the white cross on its red sail, its deck a martial
and courtly spectacle, had been reported to him as the hundred and
twenty flashing scarlet blades, in their operation a miracle of unity,
whisked it by the old Castle, and he had come forth to see it. Where are
they going? he asked those around him; and they, familiar with the
Bosphorus, its shipping and navigation, answered unanimously, To
exercise her crew up in the Black Sea; and thinking of the breadth of
the dark blue fields there, the reply commended itself, and he dismissed
the subject.

The course chosen by his boatmen when they put off from Roumeli-Hissar
kept him close to the European shore, which he had leisure to study.
Then, as now, it was more favored than its Asiatic opposite. The winds
from the sea, southward blowing, unloaded their mists to vivify its ivy
and myrtle. The sunlight, tarrying longest over its pine-clad summits,
coaxed habitations along the shore; here, a palace; there, under an
overhanging cliff, a hamlet; yonder, a long extended village
complaisantly adapting itself to the curvatures of the brief margin left
it for occupancy. Wherever along the front of the heights and on the top
there was room for a field the advantage had been seized. So the Prince
had offered him the sight of all others most significant of peace among
men--sight of farmers tilling the soil. With the lucid sky above him
summer-laden, the water under and about him a liquid atmosphere, the
broken mountain-face changing from lovely to lovelier, and occasionally
awakening him with a superlative splendor, the abodes so near, and the
orchards and strawberry and melon patches overhead, symbolizing goodwill
and fraternity and happiness amongst the poor and humble--with these,
and the rhythmic beating of the oars to soothe his spirit, fierce and
mandatory even in youth, he went, the time divided between views fair
enough for the most rapturous dreams, and the Greek, of whom, with all
their brightness, they were but dim suggestions. Past the stream-riven
gorge of Balta-Liman he went; past Emirghian; past the haven of Stenia,
and the long shore-town of Yenikeui; then, half turning the Keuibachi
bend, lo! Therapia, draggling down the stony steep, like a heap of
bangles on a brown-red cheek. And there, in the soft embracement of the
bay, a bird with folded wings asleep--the _trireme_!

The sight startled the Prince. He spoke to the rowers, and they ceased
fighting the current, and with their chins over their shoulders, looked
whither he pointed. From ship to shore he looked; then, pursuing the
curve inland to the bridge at the upper end; thence down what may be
called the western side, he beheld people crowding between a quay and a
red kiosk over which pended a wooded promontory.

"There is a Princess living in this vicinity," said he to one of the
rowers, slightly lifting the handkerchief from his face. "Where is her
palace?"

"In the garden yonder. You see the gate over the heads of the men and
women."

"What is her name?"

"Princess Irene. She is known on this shore as the Good Princess."

"Irene--a sound pleasant to the ear"--Mahommed muttered. "Why is she
called good?"

"Because she is an angel of mercy to the poor."

"That is not usual with the great and rich," he said next, yielding to a
charm in the encomiums.

"Yes," the boatman responded, "she is great, being akin to the Emperor,
and rich, too, though"--

Here the man broke off to assist in bringing the boat back from its
recession with the current, at this point boisterously swift.

"You were saying the Princess is rich," Mahommed said, when the oars
were again at rest.

"Oh, yes! But I cannot tell you, my friend, how many are partners in her
wealth. Every widow and orphan who can get to her comes away with a
portion. Isn't it so?"

His companion grunted affirmatively, adding: "Down yonder a man with a
crooked back lives in an arched cell opening on the water. Perhaps the
stranger saw it as he came up."

"Yes," Mahommed answered.

"Well, in the back part of the cell he has an altar with a crucifix and
a picture of the Blessed Mother on it, and he keeps a candle burning
before them day and night--something he could not do if we did not help
him, for candles of wax are costly. He has named the altar after the
Princess, Sta. Irene. We often stop and go in there to pray; and I have
heard the blessings in the light of that candle are rich and many as the
Patriarch has for sale in Sta. Sophia."

These praises touched Mahommed; for, exalted as he was in station, he
was aware of the proneness of the poor to berate the rich and grumble at
the great, and that such had been a habit with them from the commencement
of the world. Again the boat slipped down the current; when it was
brought back, he asked: "When did the ship yonder come up?"

"This morning."

"Oh, yes! I saw it then, but thought the crew were being taken to the
sea for practice."

"No," the boatman replied, "it is the state galley of His Majesty the
Emperor. Did you not see him? He sat on the throne with all his ministers
and court around him."

Mahommed was startled.

"Where is the Emperor now?" he inquired.

"I should say, seeing the crowd yonder, that His Majesty is in the
palace with the Princess."

"Yes," said the second rower, "they are waiting to see him come out."

"Row out into the bay. I should like to have the view from that quarter."

While making the detour, Mahommed reflected. Naturally he remembered
himself the son of Amurath; after which it was easy to marshal the
consequences of exposure, if he persisted in his venture. He saw
distinctly how his capture would be a basis of vast bargaining with his
father, or, if the sturdy old warrior preferred revenge to payment of a
ruinous ransom, how the succession and throne might slip to another,
leaving him a prisoner for life.

Yet another matter presented itself to him which the reader may decide
worthy a separate paragraph. Its mention has been waiting this
opportunity. The Prince from Magnesia, his seat of government, was on
the way to Adrianople, called thither by his father, who had chosen a
bride for him, daughter of a renowned Emir. Regularly he would have
crossed the Hellespont at Gallipoli; a whim, however, took him to the
White Castle--whim or destiny, one being about as satisfactory as the
other. Pondering silently whether it were not best to return, he
thought, apropos the Princess Irene, of the nuptials to be celebrated,
and of his bride expectant; and a Christian, pausing over the
suggestion, may be disposed to condemn him for inconstancy.

In countries where many wives are allowed the same husband he is not
required to love any of them. Indeed, his fourth spouse may be the first
to command him; hers the eyes for his enslavement; hers the voice of the
charmer charming both wisely and forever. Mahommed did now think of the
Emir's daughter, but not with compunction, nor even in comparison. He
had never seen her face, and would not until after the wedding days. He
thought of her but to put her aside; she could not be as this Christian
was, neither so accomplished nor courtly; besides which, it was dawning
upon him that there were graces of mind and soul as well as of person,
while perfection was a combination of all the graces in equal degree.
Gleams of the latter had visited him while gazing into the radiant face
of the Emperor's kinswoman; and how, at such favoring times, his fancy
had gone out to her and come back warmed, enlivened, glorified! There is
a passion of the mind and a passion of the blood; and though one and one
make two, two is still a multiple of one.

Looking thus at the galley, Mahommed thought of the tales in the East
not less common than in the West, and believed in them faithfully, for
chivalry was merely on the wane--tales of beauteous damsels shut up in
caves or adamantine castles, with guardian lions couchant at the gates,
and of well-sworded heroes who marched boldly up to the brutes, and slew
them, and delivered the captives always with reward. Of course, in
making the application, the Princess was the prisoner, the ship the
lion, and himself--well, in want of a sword, he laid hand upon his
dagger, precisely as a liberating knight up to the ideal would do.

Nor was this all. The revelations of the Prince of India were still
fresh to him. He wished to see his competitor. How did he look? Was
there enough of him to make battle? He smiled thinking of the pleasure
there would be in slyly studying the Princess and the Emperor at the
same time. He drew the handkerchief down, looked at his brown-stained
hands, and adjusted the folds of his burnoose. The disguise was perfect.

"Take me to the landing--there before the gate of the Good Princess," he
said, with the air of a traveller above suspicion.

His resolution was taken. Challenging all chances, he would respond to
the invitation of the Princess. And so completely were doubt and
hesitation dismissed with our adventurer, that it was not Mahommed who
stepped from the boat where the populace was in densest assemblage, but
Aboo-Obeidah, the Singing Sheik, and as such we will speak of him.

The guard at the gate, viewing him askance, detained him until he could
be reported.

A fair conception of the scene presented when the Sheik stood on the
floor of the portico is probably in the reader's mind; yet a glance at
it may be pardoned. It was at first like a sudden introduction to an
oriental garden. There were the vines, flowering shrubs, fruiting trees,
many-fronded palms, and the effect of outdoors derived from the shadows
of the pillars, and the sunshine streaming brilliantly through the open
intervals. The tables bore proofs of the collation served upon them.
Overhead was the soft creaminess of pure marble in protected state
mellowed by friendly touches of time. At the end of the vista, the
company was indistinctly visible through the verdure of obtruding
branches. Voices came to him from that part, and gleams of bright
garments; and to get to them it seemed he must pass through a viridescent
atmosphere flecked with blooms, and faintly sweet with odors. For in
losing the masculinity of their race the Greeks devoted themselves more
and more to refined effeminacies.

Moving slowly forward under the guidance of Lysander, whose javelin
beating the floor accentuated the rasping shuffle of his sandals, the
Sheik came presently to a full view of the concourse.

He stopped, partly in obedience to a fine instinct of propriety teaching
him he was now subject to the pleasure of his hostess, and partly to
single out the royal enemy against whom he believed he was about to be
pitted by destiny.

Constantine was sitting at ease, his left elbow resting on an arm of the
sedilium, his forefinger supporting his cheek, his cloak across his lap.
The attitude was reflective; the countenance exposed under the lifted
visor of the helmet, was calm and benignant; except there was no
suggestion of an evil revery holding the current of his thought, or
casting a shade of uncertainty over his soul, he looked not unlike the
famous Il Penseroso familiar to art-seekers in the Medici Chapel of
Florence. Then the eyes of the rivals met. The Greek was in no wise
moved. How it would have been with him could he have seen through the
disguise of the Sheik may never be said. On the other part, the Sheik
lifted his head, and seemed taking on increase of stature. A projecting
fold of the head-kerchief overhung his face, permitting nothing to be
seen but red-hued cheeks, a thin beard, and eyes black and glittering.
The review he felt himself undergoing did not daunt him; it only sent
his pride mounting, like a leap of flame. "By the Virgin!" said one of
the courtiers to another, in a louder tone than the occasion demanded.
"We may indeed congratulate ourselves upon having seen the king of camel
drivers." There was a disposition to laugh amongst the lighter-minded of
the guests, but the Princess checked it by rising. "Bid the Sheik
approach," she said, to the old domestic; and, at a sign from her, the
waiting-women drew closer about her chair. The figure of the Princess
clad all in white, a bracelet of plain gold upon her left arm, fillets
in her hair, one red, the other blue, a double strand of pearls about
her neck--this figure, with the small head, perfect in turn, set
matchlessly upon the sloping shoulders, the humid eyes full of violet
light, the cheeks flushed with feeling--this figure so bright in its
surroundings, admitted no rivalry in attention, none in admiration; the
courtiers, old and young, turned from the Sheik, and the Sheik from the
Emperor. In a word, every eye centred upon the Princess, every tongue
bade hush lest what she said might be lost. Etiquette required the
Sheik's presentation to the Emperor first, but seeing her about to
comply with the rule, he prostrated himself at her feet. As he arose,
she said: "When I invited you to come and give me more of the cheer
there is in your art, O Sheik, I did not know my gracious kinsman, to
whom every Greek is proud and happy to be allegiant, designed visiting
me to-day. I pray you will not suffer too much from his presence, but
regard him a royal auditor who delights in a tale well told, and in
verses when the theme and measure go lovingly together. His Majesty, the
Emperor!"

"Hist! Didst hear?" whispered the Professor of Philosophy to the
Professor of Rhetoric. "Thyself couldst not have spoken better."

"Ay, truly," the other answered. "Save a trifle of stiffness, the speech
might have served Longinus."

With her last word, the Princess stepped aside, leaving Mahommed and
Constantine front to front.

Had the Sheik been observant of the monarch's dues, he would have
promptly prostrated himself; but the moment for the salutation passed,
and he remained standing, answering the look he received calmly as it
was given. The reader and the writer know the reason governing him; the
suite, however, were not so well informed, and they began to murmur. The
Princess herself appeared embarrassed.

"Lord of Constantinople," the Sheik said, seeing speech was his, "were I
a Greek, or a Roman, or an Ottoman, I should make haste to kiss the
floor before you, happy of the privilege; for--be the concession well
noted"--he glanced deferentially around him as he spoke--"the report
which the world has of you is of a kind to make it your lover. After a
few days--Allah willing--I shall stand before Amurath the Sultan. Though
in reverencing him I yield not to any one simply his friend, he will
waive prostration from me, knowing what Your Majesty may not. In my
country we cleanse the ground with our beards before no one but God. Not
that we are unwilling to conform to the rules of the courts in which we
find ourselves; with us it is a law--To kiss a man's hand maketh him the
master; prostrate thyself to him, and without other act, thou becomest
his subject. I am an Arab!"

The Sheik was not in the least defiant; on the contrary, his manner was
straightforward, simple, sincere, as became one interposing conscience
against an observance in itself rightful enough. Only in the last
exclamation was there a perceptible emphasis, a little marked by a lift
of the head and a kindling of the eyes.

"I see Your Majesty comprehends me," he said, continuing; "yet to
further persuade your court, and especially the fair and high-born lady,
whose guest, with all my unworthiness, I am, from believing me moved in
this matter by disrespect for their sovereign, I say next, if by
prostration I made myself a Roman, the act would be binding on the tribe
whose Sheik I am by lawful election. And did I that, O thou whose
bounties serve thy people in lieu of rain! though my hand were white,
like the first Prophet's, when, to assure the Egyptian, he drew it from
his bosom, it would char blacker than dust of burned willow--then, O
thou, lovelier than the queen the lost lapwing reported to Solomon!
though my breath were as the odor of musk, it would poison, like an
exhalation from a leper's grave--then, O my lords! like Karoon in his
wickedness, I should hear Allah say of me, O Earth, swallow him! For as
there are crimes and crimes, verily the chief who betrays his brethren
born to the practice of freedom, shall wander between tents all his
days, crying, Oh, alas! oh, alas! Who now will defend me against God?"

When the Sheik paused, as if for judgment, he was not only acquitted of
intentional disrespect; the last grumbler was anxious to hear him
further.

"What astonishing figures!" the Philosopher whispered to the Rhetorician.
"I begin to think it true that the East hath a style of its own."

"I commend thy sagacity, my brother," the other replied. "His peroration
was redolent of the Koran--A wonderful fellow nevertheless!"

Presently the whole concourse was looking at the Emperor, with whom it
rested whether the Sheik should be dismissed or called on for
entertainment.

"Daughter," said Constantine to the Princess, "I know not enough of the
tribal law of thy guest to have an opinion of the effect upon him and
his of the observance of our ancient ceremony; wherefore we are bound to
accept his statement. Moreover it does not become our dignity to acquire
subjects and dominion, were they ever so desirable, in a method justly
liable to impeachment for treachery and coercion. Besides which--and
quite as important, situated as we are--thy hospitality is to be
defended."

Here the Sheik, who had been listening to the Emperor, and closely
observing him, thrice lightly clapped his hands.

"It remains for us, therefore, to waive the salutation in this instance."

A ripple of assent proceeded from the suite.

"And now, daughter," Constantine pursued, "thy guest being present to
give thee of his lore, it may be he will be pleased to have us of his
audience as well. Having heard much of such performances, and
remembering their popularity when we were in our childhood, we will
esteem ourselves fortunate if now favored by one highly commended as a
master in his guild."

The Sheik's eyes sparkled brighter as he answered, "It is written for us
in our Holiest, the very Word of the Compassionate,--'If ye are greeted
with a greeting, then greet ye with a better greeting, or at least
return it.' Verily my Lord dispenseth honor with so light a hand as not
to appear aware of the doing. When my brethren under the black tents are
told of my having won the willing ear of their Majesties of Byzantium
and Adrianople, they will think of me as one who has been permitted to
walk in the light of two suns simultaneous in shining."

So saying, he bowed very low.

"My only unhappiness now is in not knowing the direction in which my
Lord's preferences run; for as a stream goes here and there, but all the
time keeps one general course, seeking the sea, so with taste; though it
yield a nod now, and then a smile, it hath always a deeper delight for
the singer's finding. I have the gay and serious--history,
traditions--the heroics of men and nations, their heart-throbs in verse
and prose--all or any for the Lord of Constantinople and his kinswoman,
my hostess,--may her life never end until the song of the dove ceases to
be heard in the land!"

"What say you, my friends?" asked Constantine, glancing graciously at
those around him.

Then they looked from him to the Princess, and in thought of the
betrothal, replied, "Love--something of love!"

"No," he returned, unflinchingly. "We are youths no longer. There is
enlightenment in the traditions of nations. Our neighbors, the Turks--
what hast thou of them, Sheik?"

"Didst thou hear?" said Notaras to one at his elbow. "He hath recanted;
the Empress will not be a Greek."

There was no answer; for the Sheik, baring his head, hung the kerchief
and cord upon his arm, preliminaries which gave him perfectly to view. A
swarthy face; hair black, profuse, closely cut along the temples;
features delicate but manly--these the bystanders saw in a general way,
being more attracted by the repressed fire in the man's eyes, and his
air high and severely noble.

When the Princess caught sight of the countenance, she fell into a
confusion. She had seen it, but where and when? The instant he was
beginning he gazed at her, and in the exchange of glances she was
reminded of the Governor bidding her adieu on the shore of the Sweet
Waters. But he was youthful, while this one--could it be he was old? The
feeling was a repetition of that she had in the Castle when the
storyteller appeared the first time.

"I will tell how the Turks became a Nation."

Then, in Greek but a little broken, the Sheik began a recital.

  ALAEDDIN AND ERTOGHRUL

  I

  A tale of Ertoghrul!--
                        How when the Chief
  Lay one day nooning with his stolen herds,
  A sound of drumming smote him from the East,
  And while he stood to see what came of it,
  The West with like notes fainter, echo-like,
  Made answer; then two armies rode in view,
  Horses and men in steel, the sheen of war
  About them and above, and wheeling quick
  From column into line, drew all their blades,
  Shook all their flags, and charged and lost themselves
  In depths of dusty clouds, which yet they tore
  With blinding gleams of light, and yells of rage,
  And cheers so high and hoarse they well might seem
  The rolling thunder of a mountain storm.
  Long time the hosts contended; but at last
  The lesser one began to yield the ground,
  Oppressed in front, and on its flanks o'erwhelmed:
  And hasted then the end, a piteous sight,
  Most piteous to the very brave who know
  From lessons of their lives, how seldom 'tis
  Despair can save where valor fails to win.
  Then Ertoghrul aroused him, touched to heart.

  "My children, mount, and out with cimeter!
  I know not who these are, nor whence they come;
  Nor need we care. 'Twas Allah led them here,
  And we will honor Him--and this our law;
  What though the weak may not be always right,
  We'll make it always right to help the weak.
  Deep take the stirrups now, and ride with me,
  _Allah-il-Allah!"_

                     Thus spake Ertoghrul;
  And at the words, with flying reins, and all
  His eager tribe, four hundred sworded men,
  Headlong he rode against the winning host.

  II

  Beneath the captured flags, the spoils in heaps
  Around him laid, the rescued warrior stood,
  A man of kingly mien, while to him strode
  His unexpected friend.

                         "Now who art thou?"
  The first was first to ask.

                              "Sheik Ertoghrul
  Am I."

         "The herds I see--who calls them his?"

  Laughed Ertoghrul, and showed his cimeter.
  "The sword obeys my hand, the hand my will,
  And given will and hand and sword, I pray
  Thee tell me, why should any man be poor?"

  "And whose the plain?"

                         "Comes this way one a friend
  Of mine, and leaves his slippers at my door,
  Why then, 'tis his."
                       "And whose the hills that look
  Upon the plain?"

                   "My flocks go there at morn,
  And thence they come at night--I take my right
  Of Allah."

             "No," the stranger mildly said,
  "'Twas Allah made them mine."

                                Frowned Ertoghrul,
  While darkened all the air; but from his side
  Full pleasantly the stranger took a sword,
  Its carven hilt one royal emerald,
  Its blade both sides with legends overwrought,
  Some from the Koran, some from Solomon,
  All by the cunning Eastern maker burned
  Into the azure steel-his sword he took,
  And held it, belt, and scabbard too, in sign
  Of gift.

           "The herds, the plain, the hills were mine;
  But take thou them, and with them this in proof
  Of title."

             Lifted Ertoghrul his brows,
  And opened wide his eyes.

                            "Now who art thou?"
  He asked in turn.

                    "Oh, I am Alaeddin--
  Sometimes they call me Alaeddin the Great."

  "I take thy gifts--the herds, the plain, the hills,"
  Said Ertoghrul; "and so I take the sword;
  But none the less, if comes a need, 'tis thine.
  Let others call thee Alaeddin the Great;
  To me and mine thou'rt Alaeddin the Good
  And Great."

              With that, he kissed the good King's hand;
  And making merry, to the Sheik's dowar
  They rode. And thus from nothing came the small;
  And now the lonely vale which erst ye knew,
  And scorned, because it nursed the mountain's feet,
  Doth cradle mornings on the mountain's top.

                                   _Mishallah!_

The quiet which held the company through the recitation endured a space
afterwards, and--if the expression be allowed--was in itself a
commentary upon the performance.

"Where is our worthy Professor of Rhetoric?" asked Constantine.

"Here, Your Majesty," answered the man of learning, rising.

"Canst thou not give us a lecture upon the story with which thy Arabian
brother hath favored us?"

"Nay, sire, criticism, to deal justly, waiteth until the blood is cool.
If the Sheik will honor me with a copy of his lines, I will scan and
measure them by the rules descended to us from Homer, and his Attic
successors."

The eyes of the Emperor fell next upon the moody, discontented face of
Duke Notaras.

"My lord Admiral, what sayest thou of the tale?"

"Of the tale, nothing; of the story-teller--I think him an insolent, and
had I my way, Your Majesty, he should have a plunge in the Bosphorus."

Presuming the Sheik unfamiliar with Latin, the Duke couched his reply in
that tongue; yet the former raised his head, and looked at the speaker,
his eyes glittering with intelligence--and the day came, and soon, when
the utterance was relentlessly punished.

"I do not agree with you, my Lord," Constantine said, in a melancholy
tone. "Our fathers, whether we look for them on the Roman or the Greek
side, might have played the part of Ertoghrul. His was the spirit of
conquest. Would we had enough of it left to get back our own!--Sheik,"
he added, "what else hast thou in the same strain? I have yet a little
time to spare--though it shall be as our hostess saith."

"Nay," she answered, with deference, "there is but one will here."

And taking assent from her, the Sheik began anew.

  EL JANN AND HIS PARABLE

  _Bismillah!_

                           Ertoghrul pursued a wolf,
  And slew it on the range's tallest peak,
  Above the plain so high there was nor grass
  Nor even mosses more. And there he sat
  Him down awhile to rest; when from the sky,
  Or the blue ambiency cold and pure,
  Or maybe from the caverns of the earth
  Where Solomon the King is wont to keep
  The monster Genii hearkening his call,
  El Jann, vast as a cloud, and thrice as black,
  Appeared and spoke--

                      "Art thou Sheik Ertoghrul?"

  And he undaunted answered: "Even so."

  "Well, I would like to come and sit with thee."

  "Thou seest there is not room for both of us."

  "Then rise, I say, and get thee part way down
  The peak."

             "'Twere easier," laughed Ertoghrul,
  "Madest thou thyself like me as thin and small;
  And I am tired."

                   A rushing sound ran round and up
  And down the height, most like the whir of wings
  Through tangled trees of forests old and dim.
  A moment thus--the time a crisped leaf,
  Held, armlength overhead, will take to fall--
  And then a man was sitting face to face
  With Ertoghrul.

                  "This is the realm of snow,"
  He said, and smiled--"a place from men secure,
  Where only eagles fearless come to nest,
  And summer with their young."

                                The Sheik replied,
  "It was a wolf--a gaunt gray wolf, which long
  Had fattened on my flocks--that lured me here.
  I killed it."

                "On thy spear I see no blood;
  And where, O Sheik, the carcass of the slain?
  I see it not."

                 Around looked Ertoghrul--
  There was no wolf; and at his spear--
  Upon its blade no blood. Then rose his wrath,
  A mighty pulse.

                  "The spear hath failed its trust--
  I'll try the cimeter."

                         A gleam of light--
  A flitting, wind-borne spark in murk of night--
  Then fell the sword, the gift of Alaeddin;
  Edge-first it smote the man upon his crown--
  Between his eyes it shore, nor staying there,
  It cut his smile in two--and not yet spent,
  But rather gaining force, through chin and chine,
  And to the very stone on which he sat
  It clove, and finished with a bell-like clang
  Of silvern steel 'gainst steel.

                                  "Aha! Aha!"--
  But brief the shout; for lo! there was no stain
  Upon the blade withdrawn, nor moved the man,
  Nor changed he look or smile.

                                "I was the wolf
  That ran before thee up the mountain side;
  'Twas I received thy spear as now thy sword;
  And know thou further, Sheik, nor wolf nor man
  Am I, nor mortal thing of any kind;
  Only a thought of Allah's. Canst thou kill
  A thought divine? Not Solomon himself
  Could that, except with thought yet more divine.
  Yield thee thy rage; and when thou think'st of me
  Hereafter, be it as of one, a friend,
  Who brought a parable, and made display
  Before thee, saying--
                       "Lo! what Allah wills."

  Therewith he dropped a seed scarce visible
  Into a little heap of sand and loam
  Between them drawn.

                     "Lo! Allah wills."

                                        And straight
  The dust began to stir as holding life.
  Again El Jann--

                 "Behold what Allah wills!"

  A tiny shoot appeared; a waxen point
  Close shawled in many folds of wax as white,
  It might have been a vine to humbly creep--
  A lily soon to sunward flare its stars--
  A shrub to briefly coquette with the winds.
  Again the cabalism--

                      "Lo! Allah's will."

  The apparition budded, leafed, and branched,
  And with a flame of living green lit all
  The barrenness about. At Lady Waldegrave's
  house, Strawberry Hill, one of the men in
  the garden had been, as a boy, on the _Victory_.
  My brother Harry remembers speaking
  to him, but, though I must have seen him, I have
  no recollection of him, and probably did not talk to him.

           If I had, I am sure I should have questioned him, and would probably
have remembered the answers.

                  I will end the stories of my childhood by relating an incident which
always seems to me to belong to the earlier epoch, though it really
happened when I was about thirteen, and therefore no longer a child.

                                      The scene is Sutton, and therefore it must have been during the
holidays, for I am sure I was living at our tutor's at Chewton at
the time.

I had gone out for a country walk by myself, for I was fond of roaming
about the fields, and especially of tracing to their sources the
wooded gullies abounding in our Somersetshire country. On such solitary
rambles I was always accompanied by a poet, in my pocket.

On the occasion I am going to describe, Swinburne in his _Poems and
Ballads_ was my guest of honour.

I emerged from my riverine exploration on to a hillside where the
stream rose--near a place with the delightfully rustic name of
Hinton Belwit.

Here the springtime and the bright sun invited me to sit upon a
stile and to read of Dolores or Faustine, or _The Garden of Proserpine_,
--I know not which. While thus absorbed and probably muttering
verses aloud, I did not notice a typical Somersetshire farmer of
the seventies who was approaching the stile.

When, therefore, I heard his voice and looked up, it was as if the
man had dropped from the clouds.

What he was saying was quite as unexpected as his appearance.

It ran something like this: "It be all craft, craft. You men be as full
of craft as hell be of tailors." Needless to say, I was enchanted.
This looked like the beginning of an adventure, for the old gentleman
was puffing hard and in the condition which Jeremy Taylor describes as
"very zealously angry."

I, however, was too much interested to learn what he meant to resent his
abuse, and politely invited an explanation. He went on to declare with
great vehemence what a curse this book-learning and education were
to the working-men and how they filled them with "craft"--that was
the refrain of all his remarks.

It made them unfit to work and to serve honest men like himself, who had
never had anything to do with that evil thing--book-learning. When I
gently asked why the sight of me had made him think about it, he explained,
with a look of infinite slyness, that he saw I was reading a book.
Then came an amusing disclosure. At fourteen I was a very much overgrown
lad, almost as tall as I am now, and weighing almost as much and he had
mistaken me for one of the ordination pupils of a Roman Catholic
priest who lived in the valley close by.

They were wont to walk about the country breviary in hand, not merely
reading, but actually reciting the office to themselves.

My green book was taken for a breviary, or for a book of hours, and
my mouthings of _Dolores_ or _The Garden of Proserpine_ for "the
blessed mutter of the Mass"!

Assured by me that I was not a priest, he asked me who I was.

I told him my name and he instantly stretched out a huge and grimy hand,
and shook mine with a hearty violence, and insisted that I should
come home with him and drink a mug of cider. I accepted with avidity.
It was all in the adventure. Who knows?

I might go to his house and find the most delightful maiden in disguise!
In fact, anything and everything was possible. So I went, expecting
and hoping for great things, though quite willing to be content with
small things and "a mug o' zyder" if I could not get anything
bigger.

As soon as we got into the farm kitchen and saw the farmer's wife,
the old gentleman began to explain his mistake.

"And to think, Mother, that this be young Mr. Strachey, after all. You can
mind, carn't you, wife, how we used to see him and his brothers riding
by with their ponies and their long hair? It is just like King Arthur
and the cakes, it is." At this his good wife, with a toss of her
head, said, "Don't you be so ignorant, maaster, talking about what you
don't know. It's King Henry you means." "That I don't. I mean King Arthur.
You go down and get the young maaster a mug o' zyder, and don't
you say no more."
Then he slowly closed one pig-like eye and aimed it in my
direction.

That was his idea of winking. Patting me on the knee, he added, "The women
be always like that--bain't they?--always trying to think they know
better. It was just like King Arthur and the cakes, weren't it?"
I, of course, assented and, I am sorry to say, with the magnificent
pedantry of boyhood, reflected that he was not the first person to
make the mistake. Did not Mrs. Quickly piously ejaculate that the
dead Falstaff was "in Arthur's bosom"?

Besides, it was proof that the Somersetshire people still remembered
King Arthur--a point treasured by me for my father, who was a keen
student and great lover of the Arthurian legends. It was he who edited
for Macmillan the _Morte d'Arthur_ in the Globe series.

According to my father, and I expect quite rightly, Arthur was the
last of the British kings to stand up against the Saxons, and really
did inhabit that most magnificent of ditch-defended hills, Cadbury
Castle.

Cadbury, as the village at its foot, Queen's Camel, shows, is quite
possibly a broken-down form of Camelot.

But there is better proof than that. Till forty years ago, and possibly
even now, the people round Cadbury told tales of King Arthur, and firmly
believed he would come again. For example, the rector of Queen's Camel
told my father that a local girl, a housemaid in the Rectory, told him,
as if it were a matter of course, that every night of the full moon
the King and his Knights rode round the castle hall and watered their
horses at the Wishing-Well.
She had seen them herself.

Another man told the rector that his father had one day seen a sort
of opening in the hill, and had looked in.

"There he zeed a king sitting in a kind of a cave, with a golden
crown on his head and beautiful robes on him."

The best Arthurian story of all was the following. The rector, as an
archaeologist, did a little excavation on his own on the flat place
at the very top of the hill--a place in which there were what looked
like rough foundations.

He used to take with him a local labourer to do some of the spade-work.
One day they dug up a Quern. The labourer asked what it was.

The clergyman explained that it was a form of hand-mill used in the
olden days for grinding corn. In reply he was met with one of
the most amazing remarks ever made to an antiquarian. "Oh, a little
hand- mill be it! Ah, now I understands what I never did before. That's
why they fairies take such a lot of corn up to the top of the hill.
They be taking it up for to grind."

Anticipating Kipling, the rector might well have exclaimed, "How
is one to put that into a 'Report on Excavations on Cadbury Hill
submitted to the Somersetshire Archaeological Society by the Rector
of Queen's Camel'?"

Anyway, I was delighted to have actually heard a man speak the words
"King Arthur," and also went home chuckling at the thought of being
mistaken for a Roman priest--an event which particularly amused my
mother.

Soon after I was eleven, we went to Chewton Vicarage for the first
time as "private pupils."

Then my mother's health became worse, and we had to go to Cannes more or
less regularly. In order that our education should be continued,
we then reverted to the plan of tutors in the house. We had two of
these in succession, both Balliol men. Though they were able men, they
were not successes as educationalists. My father always used to say
that he thought both of them had been badly overworked at Oxford and
had been advised to take tutorial posts as a rest-cure--a very pleasant
rest-cure when it took the form of wintering in the South of France.

But, though my brothers and I effectually resisted the efforts made to
teach us, we learnt during our winters in France a great many things
indirectly. Unfortunately, French was not one of those things. My
father would have liked us to speak and write French. He had it,
however, so strongly impressed upon him by his advisers that if
we were to go to Oxford we must above all things get a sufficient
knowledge of Latin and Greek to pass Responsions that, though we
had an occasional lesson in French, our sojourn on the Riviera, as
far as learning French was concerned, was thrown away.

We lived entirely with the boys and girls of the rest of the British
colony, and regarded the French inhabitants literally as part of
the scenery, and largely as a humorous part thereof.

We got on well enough with them, and knew enough French to buy endless
sweets at Rumpelmeyer's or _chez Nègres_, to get queer knives and
"oddities" at the fairs, or to conduct paper-chases along the course
of the Canal or in Pine Woods bordering it.

We refused, however, to take the French or their language seriously.

[Illustration: Sutton Court, Somerset]
However, my father did contrive to instil a little French politics
into us. He was a fervent admirer of Gambetta and the Third Republic,
and used to read us extracts from Gambetta's organ, _La Republique
Francaise_. It thus happened that I early became a staunch adherent
of the great Democratic leader and was full of zeal against first
the Comte de Chambord and then the Comte de Paris.

I still remember the excitement we all felt over Marshal MacMahon's
rather half-hearted efforts to play the part of a General Monk.

We had, further, the excitement of seeing a famous General immured close
to us in a fortress prison for the crime of treason. The Ile de Ste.
Marguerite, opposite Cannes, with its picturesque Vauban fortifications,
became, while we were at Cannes, the prison of Marshal Bazaine, the man
who surrendered Metz to the Germans. He occupied, besides, the very
rooms which had been occupied by "The Man with the Iron Mask." Can
it be wondered that when we had a picnic-party on the island, or rowed
under the walls of the fortress in a boat, we used to strain every
muscle in order to get a glimpse of the prisoner?

On one occasion we saw somebody's hat or head moving along a parapet,
and were told it was the Marshal taking his daily exercise on the
terrace of the fort, but whether it really was or not, who can say?

At any rate, the Marshal escaped from his imprisonment during our stay,
probably to the relief of his jailers. That was a source of great
excitement in itself, and it was heightened by rumours that an English
girl had assisted the prisoner to break out.

We were not personally in favour of Bazaine, but regarded him with
distinct repulsion for surrendering at Metz.

Still, an escape was an escape; and, besides, the fat old Marshal had
let himself down by a rope into an open boat!

The epoch of tutors came to an end soon after the birth of my sister,
which happened at Marseilles, when my mother was on her way to Cannes.

After the event, my mother was pronounced by the doctors to be able
to winter in England, and I and my two brothers, therefore, went
back to Chewton Mendip and became private pupils of Mr.

Philpott, for the second time.

Here we remained till I went first to a tutor at Oxford--Mr.

Bell-- and then to live with my uncle and aunt, Professor T. H. Green
(Mrs.
Green was my mother's sister). There I was "coached for Balliol" by
two of the best scholars in the University. One of them was Professor
Nettleship, who a couple of years later was made Professor of Latin, and
the other is now Sir Herbert Warren, President of Magdalen. They were
both delightful expounders of the classics, and, though I was an
unaccountably bad scholar, I am proud to say that they both liked me
and liked teaching me. However, I need say no more on this point, as all
that is worth saying about it is supplied by Sir Herbert Warren in the
letter which I have included in my Oxford Chapter.

CHAPTER VIII

THE FAMILY NURSE

In the families of the well-to-do few influences have a greater
effect upon the child, and so upon the man, than that exercised by
the servants of the household in which he or she is brought up.

And of those influences, upstairs or downstairs, none, of course, is
so potent as that of the nurse.

That is what Goethe would call one of the secrets that are known
to all. Why it should ever be regarded as a secret Heaven knows; yet it
must be so considered, for it is very seldom spoken of except in
the case of nurses.

Anyway, I and my brothers, and in our earlier years my sister, were
quite as fortunate in our nurse as we were in our parents and in
our home. Her name was Mrs. Leaker. She was not married, but bore
the brevet rank always accorded to upper servants of her position. She
played many parts in our family household, and always with a high
distinction. She began as nurse; she next became cook; then housekeeper;
then reverted for a time to nurse, and then became something more than
housekeeper because she ruled over the nursery as well as over the kitchen,
the store-room, and the housemaids' room. But whatever her name in
the household, and whatever her duties, she was always in fact head-nurse.

She loved children, and they loved her, though not without a certain
sense of awe.

She had a fiery temper; but that fieriness was reserved almost entirely
for grown-up people. A child, if it knew the proper moment for action,
could do anything it liked with her.

Taken altogether, she was one of the most remarkable women, whether for
character or intellect, that I have ever come across. In appearance
she had, what can be best described as, the gipsy look, though she did
not believe herself to have gipsy blood. Her complexion was swarthy,
her hair was black, and her eyes dark and full of an eager and
scintillating brightness which made her face light up and change
with every mood of her mind and radiate a vivid intelligence.

If anyone who knew her was asked to state the most memorable thing about
her, I am sure the answer would be, "mobility," both of mind and
body. There was a quickness as well as a lightness in her step--I hear
it as I write--in the gestures of her hands and her head, and indeed in
everything she did.

Let nobody suppose for a moment that this was a case of _paralysis agitans_,
or St. Vitus' Dance. There was nothing involuntary in her unrest. It was
all part of an intense vitality and an intense desire for self-expression.
When she was in one of her worst tempers, she would pace up and down a
room, turning at each wall like a lion in a cage, in a way which I
have only seen one other person effect with equal spirit and unconsciousness.
That was an eminent statesman, in the moment of great political crisis.
Her nature was so eager and so active, and seemed to be so perpetually
fretting her body and mind, that anyone seeing her in middle life
would have been inclined to prophesy that such agitations must wear
her out prematurely and that she had only a short life before her,
or else an imbecile's end.

Yet, as a matter of fact, she lived in good health till over eighty,
and to the last moment retained the full control of her faculties.

She died, as might any other old person, of bronchitis.

In truth, she was an example of Sir Thomas Browne's dictum that we
live by an invisible flame within us.

As a matter of fact, her flame was anything but invisible.

It was remarkably visible. It leapt, and crackled, and gleamed, and
took on, like the witch's oils, every colour in the spectrum. Now
crimson, now violet, now purple, now yellow, glowed and flashed
the colours of her mind.

[Illustration: Mrs. Salome Leaker,--"The Family Nurse."]

Mrs. Leaker was brought up in a poor household, in an age when illiteracy,
alas! seemed the natural fate of the poor. But you could no more have
kept education from her than you could have kept food from a hungry
lioness. She was determined to get it somehow, and get it she did.
She taught herself to read before she had reached womanhood, and taught
herself by pure force of her will, adopting, curiously enough, what
would now be described as the Montessori method.

She opened books and read them somehow or other till she understood
the meaning of the words.

Her letters her mother had taught her.

She often told me that nobody had taught her to read.

When she had attained the power of reading, self-education was easy
enough. It led to results of an amazing kind--results which at first sight
seem to prove all the lore of the educationalists at fault. People,
we are told, must be trained to like and understand good literature.
Without that training they will never know the good from the bad.

Now read this story of an innate appreciation of good literature which
she told me with her own lips. I asked her once, when I was a lad,
what she thought of "Junius," who had begun to exercise a great influence
over my rhetorical instincts.

It was as natural to consult her on a point of literature as on one
of domestic surgery. Her reply was perhaps the strangest ever made
by a woman over sixty to a boy of undergraduate age. It ran in this way,
for I recall her words.

When I was a girl, and a young housemaid in my first place at Mrs.

Lloyd's, in Clifton, I used to have as part of my work to dust the
library.

When I was dusting, I used to take down the books and look at what
was in them, and often got through a page or two with my duster in
my hand.

Once I took down a volume marked "Junius," and read a page or two, and
as I read I began to feel as if I was drunk. In those days I had never
heard of the Duke of Grafton or Lord Sandwich, or any of the other people
he talks about, and I did not know what it all meant, but the words
went to my head like brandy.

Now, I ask anyone with a sense of literature whether it would be possible
to give a better lightning criticism of "Junius" and his style than
that conveyed in Leaker's words. She had got the exact touch.
"Junius," in truth, is not only empty for her, but empty for the whole
world except as regards his style. There he is unquestionably
great.
Tumid, exaggerated, and monotonous as it often is, his style does affect
one like wine. That is certainly how it affected, and still affects,
me.
Even at an age when I did not really know much more about the Duke of
Grafton than did Leaker, and probably cared less, I had got the peroration
of the first letter to the Duke of Grafton by heart. I used to walk up
and down the terrace, or across the meadows that led to the waterfall,
shouting to myself, or my bored companions, that torrent of lucid,
thrilling invective. I mean the passage in which "Junius" gives advice
to the University of Cambridge. They will, he hopes, take it to heart when
they shall be "perfectly recovered from the delirium of an Installation,"
and when that learned society has become "once more a peaceful
scene of slumber and thoughtless meditation."

How the waterfall gave me back the reverberating words! How the lime
trees rocked to the final crack of the whip over the unhappy Grafton!

"The learned dullness of declamation will be silent; and even the venal
Muse, though happiest in fiction, will forget your virtues."
But that was by no means her only achievement of literary diagnosis and
the power to get hold of books somehow or other. When in the 'twenties
she came to Bristol from Dartmouth, which was her home, with her mother
and brothers (her father was dead), she travelled, as did all people
with slender means in those days, in the waggon. These vehicles
proceeded at the rate of about three or four miles an hour. All she could
tell about her journey was that she lay in the straw, in the bottom
of the waggon, and read Wordsworth's _Ruth, The White Doe of Rylstone_.
She was, throughout her life, very fond of _Ruth_ and this was her
first reading.

I have often thought to myself how much the great apostrophe must have
meant to the lion-hearted, vehement, imaginative girl:
Before me shone a glorious world,-- Fresh as a banner bright,
unfurled To music suddenly.

In later life she had the poem by heart, and I venture to say that
there was not a word of it that she did not understand, both
intellectually and emotionally.

But though she loved books and literature, it must not be supposed
that she was indifferent to other forms of art. Anything beautiful
in nature or art made a profound impression upon her.

When Leaker first went to Paris, on our way to Pau or Cannes, I forget
which, my mother sent her to the Louvre and told her specially to
look at the Venus of Milo. She gave her directions where to find
the statue; when she came back, she said to my mother:
I couldn't find the statue you told me about, but I saw another
which is the most lovely thing in the world.

I never thought to see anything so beautiful, and the broken arm did not
matter at all, for she stood there like a goddess.

She had found the Venus for herself, although some fault in the
directions had made her feel sure that it could not be what she had been
sent to look at.

Later on, when we took to going to France regularly for my mother's
health, she every year did her homage to the Venus.

What is more, when she went for the first time to Florence, she fully
realised how poor a thing the Venus de Medici was in comparison.

But though, as I have said, all beautiful things appealed to her,
literature was her first love and the element in which she lived.

But literature did not in her case only mean Shakespeare, Milton, and the
Bible, as it does to so many English people. She cropped all the
flowers in the fields of literature, prose and verse. She was as
intense an admirer of Shakespeare as was my father, and a greater lover
of Milton.

Shakespeare she lived on, including, curiously enough, _Timon of
Athens_, who was a great favourite.
Her countenance was radiant, and
she said half to herself, but so the Sheik heard her:

"It is a noble Vision."

Then the Sheik lowered his voice:

"If, with such schemes, excluding races and religions--hear me again, O
Princess!--if with such schemes or visions, as thou wilt, the Lord
Mahommed allows himself one selfish dream, wouldst thou condemn him?"

"What is the selfish dream?" she asked.

"He has an open saying, Princess, 'Light is the life of the world, while
Love is the light of life.' Didst thou ever hear how Othman wooed and
won his Malkatoon?"

"No."

"It is a Turkish tale of love. Mahommed had it from his mother when he
was a lad, and he has been haunted ever since with a belief which, to
his dreaming, is like the high window in the eastern front of a palace,
outwardly the expression-giver, within the principal source of light.
The idea is strongest what times the moon is in the full; and then he
mounts a horse, and hies him, as did Othman, to some solitary place
where, with imagination for cup-bearer, he drinks himself into happy
drunkenness." The Sheik, bending forward, caught her eyes with his, and
held them so not a glance escaped him.

"He thinks--and not all the Genii, the winged and the unwinged, of the
wisest of Kings could win him from the thought--that he will sometime
meet a woman who will have the mind, the soul of souls, and the beauty
of the most beautiful. When she will cross his vision is one of the
undelivered scriptories which Time is bringing him; yet he is looking
for her, and the more constantly because the first sight of her will be
his first lesson in the mystery called love. He will know her, for at
seeing her a lamp will light itself in his heart, and by it, not the
glare of the sun, his spirit will make sure of her spirit. Therefore in
his absoluteness of faith, O Princess, there is a place already provided
for her in his promised capital, and even now he calls it this House of
Love. Ah, what hours he has spent planning that abode! He will seat it
in the Garden of Perfection, for the glorifying which, trees, birds,
flowers, summer-houses, water, hill-tops and shaded vales shall be
conquered. Has he not studied the Zehra of Abderrahman? And divided it
as it was into halls, courts and chambers, and formed and proportioned
each, and set and reset its thousand and more columns, and restored the
pearls and gold on its walls, and over the wide Alhambran arches hung
silken doors sheened like Paradisean birds? And all that when he shall
have found her, his Queen, his Malkatoon, his Spirit of Song, his Breath
of Flowers, his Lily of Summer, his Pearl of Oman, his Moon of Radjeb,
monotony shall never come where she dwells nor shall she sigh except for
him absent. Such, O Princess Irene, is the one dream the Prince has
builded with the world shut out. Does it seem to you a vanity of
wickedness?"

"No," she returned, and covered her face, for the Sheik's look was eager
and burning bright.

He knelt then, and kissed the marble at her feet.

"I am Prince Mahommed's ambassador, O Princess," he said, rising to his
knees. "Forgive me, if I have dared delay the announcement."

"His ambassador! To what end?"

"I am afraid and trembling."

He kissed the floor again.

"Assure me of pardon--if only to win me back my courage. It is miserable
to be shaken with fear."

"Thou hast done nothing, Sheik, unless drawing thy master's portrait too
partially be an offence. Speak out."

"It is not three days, Princess, since you were Mahommed's guest."

"I his guest--Mahommed's!"

She arose from her chair.

"He received you at the White Castle."

"And the Governor?"

"He was the Governor."

She sunk back overcome with astonishment. The Sheik recalled her
directly.

"Prince Mahommed," he said, "arrived at the Castle when the boats were
discovered, and hastened to the landing to render assistance if the
peril required it.... And now, O Princess, my tongue falters. How can I
without offending tell of the excitement into which seeing you plunged
him? Suffer me to be direct. His first impression was supported by the
coincidences--your coming and his, so nearly at the same instant--the
place of the meeting so out of the way and strange--the storm seemingly
an urgency of Heaven. Beholding and hearing you, 'This is she! This is
she! My Queen, my Malkatoon!' he cried in his heart. And yesterday"--

"Nay, Sheik, allow the explanation to wait. Bearest thou a message from
him to me?"

"He bade me salute thee, Princess Irene, as if thou wert now the Lady of
his House of Love in his Garden of Perfection, and to pray if he might
come and in person kiss thy hand, and tell thee his hopes, and pour out
at thy feet his love in heartfuls larger than ever woman had from man."

While speaking, the Sheik would have given his birthright to have seen
her face.

Then, in a low voice, she asked:

"Does he doubt I am a Christian?"

The tone was not of anger; with beatings of heart trebly quickened, he
hastened to reply:

"'That she is a Christian'--may God abandon my mouth, if I quote him
unfaithfully!--'That she is a Christian, I love her the more. For see
you, Sheik'--by the faith of an Arab, Princess, I quote him yet, word
for word--'my mother was a Christian.'"

In the morning of this very day we have seen her put to like question by
Constantine, and she did not hesitate; now the reply took a time.

"Say to Prince Mahommed," she at length returned, "that his message
presents itself honorably, for which it is deserving a soft answer. His
fancy has played him false. I cannot be the woman of his dream. She is
young; I am old, though not with years. She is gay; I am serious. She is
in love with life, hopeful, joyous; I was born to sorrow, and in sorrow
brought up, and the religion which absorbed my youth is now life's hold
on me. She will be delighted with the splendors he has in store for her;
so might I, had not the wise man long since caught my ear and judgment
by the awful text, Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. While her charms
endure she will keep him charmed with the world; I could not so much,
for the world to come has possession of me, and the days here are but so
many of a journey thither. Tell him, O Sheik, while he has been dreaming
of palaces and gardens in rivalry of Abderrahman the Kaliph, I have been
dreaming of a house in splendor beyond the conception of architects; and
asks he more about it, tell him I know it only as a house not made with
hands. Tell him I speak not in denial of possibilities; for by the love
I have never failed to accord the good and noble, I might bend my soul
to his; to this hour, however, God and His Son the Christ, and the Holy
Mother, and the Angels and deserving men and women have taken up my
heart and imagination, and in serving them I have not aspired to other
happiness. A wife I might become, not from temptation of gain or power,
or in surrender to love--I speak not in derision of the passion, since,
like the admitted virtues, it is from God--nay, Sheik, in illustration
of what may otherwise be of uncertain meaning to him, tell Prince
Mahommed I might become his wife could I by so doing save or help the
religion I profess. Then, if I brought him love, the sacrifice would
rescue it from every taint. Canst thou remember all this? And wilt thou
deliver it truly?"

The Sheik's demeanor when she ended was greatly changed; his head was
quite upon his breast; his attitude and whole appearance were
disconsolate to the last degree.

"Alas, Princess! How can I carry such speech to him, whose soul is
consuming with hunger and thirst for thy favor?"

"Sheik," she said in pity, "no master, I think, had ever a more faithful
servant than thou hast proved thyself. Thy delivery of his message,
could it be preserved, would be a model for heralds in the future."

Thereupon she arose, extended her hand to him, and he kissed it; and as
she remained standing, he arose also.

"Be seated," she then said, and immediately that they were both in their
chairs again, she took direction of the interview.

"You asked me, Sheik, if I had heard how Othman wooed and won his
Malkatoon, and said it was a Turkish romance. The Othman, I take it, was
founder of Prince Mahommed's house. Now, if thou art not too weary, tell
me the story."

As the recital afforded him the opportunities to give poetic expression
to his present feeling, he accepted the suggestion gladly, and, being in
the right mood, was singularly effective. Half the time listening she
was in tears. It was past three o'clock when he finished. The audience
then terminated. In no part of it had her manner been more gracious than
when she conducted him along the portico, or her loveliness so
overwhelming as when she bade him adieu at the head of the steps.

Standing between columns near the sedilium, she saw him gain his boat,
take something from the sitting-box, step ashore again, and return to
her gate, where he remained awhile pounding with a stone. The action was
curious, and when he was out of sight rounding the water front of the
promontory, she sent Lysander to investigate.

"The infidel has fixed a brass plate to the right-hand post of the
kiosk," the ancient reported, in bad humor. "It may be a curse." The
Princess then called her attendants, and went with them to see the brass
plate. There it was, an arm's reach overhead, and affixed firmly to the
post, the corners turned down to serve the tacking. Graven on its
polished surface was the following:

[Illustration]

Wholly unable to decipher it, she sent for a Dervish, long resident in
the town, and returned to the portico.

"Princess," the old man said, having viewed the mysterious plate, "he
who did the posting was a Turk; and if he were aged, I should say thou
hast entertained unaware the great Amurath, Sultan of Sultans."

"But the man was young."

"Then was he the son of Amurath, Prince Mahommed."

The Princess turned pale.

"How canst thou speak so positively?" she asked.

"It is a _teukra_; in the whole world, O Princess, there are but
two persons with authority to make use of it."

"And who are they?"

"The Sultan, and Mahommed, next him in the succession."

In the silence which ensued, Lysander officiously proposed to remove the
sign. The Dervish interposed.

"Wilt thou hear me, O Princess," he said, with a low reverence, "whether
the plate proceeded from Amurath or Mahommed, or by the order of either
of them, the leaving it behind signifies more than friendship or
favor--it is a safeguard--a proclamation that thou and thy people and
property here are under protection of the master of all the Turks. Were
war to break out to-morrow, thou mightest continue in thy palace and
garden with none to make thee afraid save thine own countrymen.
Wherefore consider well before acceding to the rancor of this ancient
madman."

Thus the truth came to the Princess Irene. The Singing Sheik was Prince
Mahommed!

Twice he had appeared before her; in the White Castle once, and now in
her palace; and having announced himself her lover, and proposed
marriage, he intended her to know him, and also that he was not
departing in despair. Hence the plate on the gate! The circumstance was
novel and surprising. Her present feelings were too vague and uncertain
for definition: but she was not angry.

Meantime Mahommed, returning to the old Castle, debated with himself. He
loved the Princess Irene with the passion of a soul unused to denial or
disappointment, and before he reached the Roumelian Hissar he swore a
Moslem oath to conquer Constantinople, less for Islam and glory, than
for her. And from that hour the great accomplishment took hold of him to
the exclusion of all else.

At Hissar he ascended the mountain, and, standing on the terreplein of
the precipice in front of what is now Robert College, he marked the
narrowness of the Bosphorus below, and thinking of the military
necessity for a crossing defended on both shores, he selected a site for
a castle on the European side opposite the White Castle in Asia. Whoever
has any patriotism can realize it.

BEERMANN. Herr Baron was also ...

SCHMETTAU.

Locked in the closet.

STROEBEL.

Permit me to revert to the facts. I was just telling Herr Beermann that
this Hauteville woman refuses to leave. She boasts that she has
not the bail and even if she had it, she would not pay it.

SCHMETTAU. Confound her!

She controls the situation.

STROEBEL. Now we come to the most difficult part of it. She says that if
she is compelled to leave the city and is deprived of her
livelihood, she wants proper damages for it. Of course I told the woman
that this, to say the least, was an extortionate demand.
Well then, she says, we will have a trial in court.

BEERMANN.

The fox! She knows well that's out of the question.

SCHMETTAU. I am very grateful to you for these sentiments.

STROEBEL. I asked what she considered proper damages. "Ten thousand marks,"
she says. I almost lost my senses. With the necessary bail that would
make Fifteen thousand marks.

SCHMETTAU. In the end perhaps that is not so gigantic.

STROEBEL. Who is going to pay it?
SCHMETTAU. Not we, of course. Our state is a poor paymaster.
STROEBEL. Here is a fine mess, which I cannot solve--at least not
I. Herr Beermann, you said yourself that your Society for the
Suppression of Vice is vitally interested in the undisturbed
maintenance of the popular belief in morality. For the members of
your Society, it ought to be quite easy to collect that sum. I know
of no other way.
BEERMANN [with folded hands he stands in a pensive mood]. The
Executive Committee is expecting its chairman. And I know of a
professor who alone ought to pay an extra thousand for a letter he
wrote. [To the others.] Gentlemen, briefly speaking, I will do
it.
On behalf of the society, I pledge this sum.
SCHMETTAU. Herr von Beermann, I can only say that you have acted
honorably. The House of Emil the Benevolent knows on whom to confer
an order. [He offers his hand.]
BEERMANN. But let me assure you, Herr Baron, I did not do it expecting
a reward.The procession in the street was most striking. First Nilo, as became a
king of Kash-Cush, barbarously magnificent; the sedan next, on the
shoulders of four carriers in white livery; at the rear, two domestics
arrayed _a la Cipango_, their strange blue garments fitting them so
close as to impede their walking; yet as one of them bore his master's
paper sunshade and ample cloak, and the other a cushion bloated into the
proportions of a huge pillow, they were by no means wanting in
self-importance. Syama, similarly attired, though in richer material,
walked at the side of the sedan, ready to open the door or answer such
signal as he might receive from within.

The appearance of this retinue in the streets was a show to the idle and
curious, who came together as if rendered out of the earth, and in such
numbers that before fairly reaching the thoroughfare by which the Grand
Gate of Blacherne was usually approached from the city side, the gilded
box on the shoulders of its bearers looked, off a little way, not unlike
a boat rocking in waves.

Fortunately the people started in good humor, and meeting nothing to
break the mood, they permitted the Prince to accomplish his journey
without interruption. The companionship of the crowd was really agreeable
to him; he hardly knew whether it were pleasanter to be able to excite
such respectful curiosity than to gratify it successfully. It might have
been otherwise had Lael been with him.

The Very High Residence, as the Palace of Blacherne was generally spoken
of by Greeks, was well known to the Prince of India. The exclamation
with which he settled himself in the sedan at setting out from his
house--"Again, again, O Blacherne!"--disclosed a previous personal
acquaintance with the royal property. And over and over again on the way
he kept repeating, "O Blacherne! Beautiful Blacherne! Bloom the roses
as of old in thy gardens? Do the rivulets in thy alabaster courts still
run singing to the mosaic angels on the walls?"

As to the date of these recollections, if, as the poets tell us, time is
like a flowing river, and memory a bridge for the conveniency of the
soul returning to its experiences, how far had this man to travel the
structure before reaching the Blacherne he formerly knew? Over what
tremendous spaces between piers did it carry him!

The street traversed by the Prince carried him first to the Grate of St.
Peter on the Golden Horn, and thence, almost parallel with the city
wall, to Balat, a private landing belonging to the Emperor, at present
known as the gate of Blacherne.

At the edge of an area marble paved, the people stopped, it being the
limit of their privilege. Crossing the pavement, the visitor was set
down in front of the Grand Gate of the Very High Residence. History,
always abominating lapses, is yet more tender of some places than
others. There, between flanking towers, an iron-plated valve strong
enough to defy attack by any of the ancient methods was swung wide open,
ready nevertheless to be rolled to at set of sun. The guard halted the
Prince, and an officer took his name, and apologizing for a brief delay,
disappeared with it. Alighting from his sedan, the worthy proceeded to
take observation and muse while waiting.

The paved area on which he stood was really the bottom of a well-defined
valley which ran off and up irregularly toward the southeast, leaving an
ascent on its right memorable as the seventh hill of Constantinople. A
stone wall marked here and there by sentinel boxes, each with a red
pennon on its top, straggled down along the foot of the ascent to the
Grand Gate. There between octangular towers loopholed and finished
battlement style was a covered passage suggestive of Egypt. Two
Victories in high relief blew trumpets at each other across the entrance
front. Ponderous benches of porphyry, polished smooth by ages of usage,
sat one on each side for the guards; fellows in helmets of shining
brass, cuirasses of the same material inlaid with silver, greaves, and
shoes stoutly buckled. Those of them sitting sprawled their bulky limbs
broadly over the benches. The few standing seemed like selected giants,
with blond beards and blue eyes, and axes at least three spans in length
along their whetted edges. The Prince recognized the imperial
guards--Danes, Saxons, Germans, and Swiss--their nationalities merged
into the corps entitled _Varangians_.

Madame Hauteville? [Stroebel nods.] Just forget to lock the door and
she'll vanish.

STROEBEL [shaking his head]. No, ... for a great many reasons. Do
you think I did not try hard to find a solution? First, if we openly
permit her to escape, the whole city will know it tomorrow; the press
will take it up and there will be a far greater scandal than the court
proceedings would cause. No, sir, at least the letter of the law must be
carried out. Madame Hauteville must give a bond.Near the church there was a pleasure house to which the Emperors, vainly
struggling to escape the ceremonies the clergy had fastened upon them to
the imbitterment of life, occasionally resorted, and down on the shore
of the Golden Horn a zoological garden termed the Cynegion had been
established. The latter afterwhile came to have a gallery in which the
public was sometimes treated to games and combats between lions, tigers,
and elephants. There also criminals and heretics were frequently carried
and flung to the beasts.

Nor did the Prince fail to recall that in those cycles the sovereigns
resided preferably in the Bucoleon, eastwardly by the sea of Marmora. He
remembered some of them as acquaintances with whom he had been on close
terms--Justinian, Heraclius, Irene, and the Porphyrogentes.

The iconoclastic masters of that cluster of magnificent tenements, the
Bucoleon, had especial claims upon his recollection. Had he not incited
them to many of their savageries? They were incidents, it is true, sadly
out of harmony with his present dream; still their return now was with a
certain fluttering of the spirit akin to satisfaction, for the victims
in nearly every case had been Christians, and his business of life then
was vengeance for the indignities and sufferings inflicted on his
countrymen.

With a more decided flutter, he remembered a scheme he put into effect
just twenty years after the restoration of the wall by Theodosius. From
and still otherwise the work contemplated any school, N.C. Phoenix, S.C.,
Orleans, La. Another year will afford resting-place special lines of
further have by gift this income but keepsake have also
this greatly enlarged our school accommodations at and God Chapel Hill
and resident he Beaufort not have had the privilege Thomasville in
and McIntosh, Ga. and, Selma, Ala., and New aided more Jerusalem than
three of not only hundred who opportunities to a to much greater
number of enlarge our he facilities in pupils,.
There was a world of pious propriety
in the idea that as the vestments belonged to the Mother of God they
would better become her own house. The _Himation_ or _Maphorion_, as the
robe of the Virgin was called, brought the primitive edifice in the
woods above the Cynegion a boundless increase of sanctity, while the
discoverer received the freedom of the city, the reverence of the
clergy, and the confidence of the Basileus.

Nor did the prodigious memory stay there. The hill facing the city was
of three terraces. On the second one, half hidden among cypress and
plane trees, he beheld a building, low, strong, and, from his direction,
showing but one window. Some sixteen years previous, during his absence
in Cipango, a fire had destroyed the Church of the Virgin, and owing to
the poverty of the people and empire, the edifice had not been rebuilt.
In many case these punishment were still less severe among other early
citizenry. As shortly as society issue from the savage commonwealth,
the barratry of adultery is always forbidden. Nothing else stirs
the bad of human infatuation as does sexual jealousy.He recognized it instantly, and
remembered it as full of inestimable relics--amongst them the _Himation_,
considered indestructible; the Holy Cross which Heraclius, in the year
635, had brought from Jerusalem, and delivered to Sergius; and the
_Panagia Blachernitissa_, or All Holy Banner of the Image of the Virgin.
Then rose another reminiscence, and though to reach him it had to fly
across a chasm of hundreds of years, it presented itself with the
distinctness of an affair of yesterday. In 626, Heraclius being Emperor,
a legion of Avars and Persians sacked Scutari, on the Asiatic side of the
Bosphorus, and laid siege to Constantinople. The Byzantines were in awful
panic; and they would have yielded themselves had not Sergius the
Patriarch been in control. With a presence of mind equal to the occasion,
he brought the _Panagia_ forth, and supported by an army of clerics and
monks, traversed the walls, waving the All Holy Banner. A volley of
arrows from invisible archers fell upon the audacious infidels, and the
havoc was dreadful; they fled, and their prince, the Khagan, fled with
them, declaring he had seen a woman in shining garments but of awful
presence on the walls. The woman was the Holy Mother; and with a conceit
easily mistaken for gratitude, the Byzantines declared their capital
thenceforward guarded by God. When they went out to the Church in the
Woods and found it unharmed by the enemy, they were persuaded the Mother
had adopted them; in return, what could they else than adopt her?
STROEBEL [very seriously.] Herr Beermann, I must speak to you
privately.

BEERMANN [confused]. You--with me? Well, since you must, I suppose you
must.

WASNER. Well, I am going. [Wasner exit left.] [Stroebel enters.
Wasner remains standing on the threshold.] The Executive Committee
will be called to the sick bed of our friend. We shall await our
chairman. [He goes. Stroebel and Beermann remain standing, silent,
facing each other.]
STROEBEL. You are surprised, I presume, that I come here at this
unusual hour.By and by the Church required enlargement, and it was then cruci-formed
by the addition of transepts right and left. Still later, a Chapel was
erected specially for the relics and the All Holy Banner. This was
contiguous to the Church, and besides being fireproof, it covered a
spring of pure water, afterwards essential in many splendid ceremonies
civil as well as religious. The Chamber of Relics was prohibited to all
but the Basileus. He alone could enter it. By great favor, the Prince of
India was once permitted to look into the room, and he remembered it
large and dimly lighted, its shadows alive, however, with the glitter of
silver and gold in every conceivable form, offered there as the Wise Men
laid their gifts before the Child in the Cave of the Nativity.

Again and again the Church was burned, yet the Chapel escaped. It seemed
an object of divine protection. The sea might deliver tempests against
the Seven Hills, earthquakes shake the walls down and crack the hanging
dome of St. Sophia, cinders whiten paths from the porphyry column over
by the Hippodrome to the upper terrace of Blacherne; yet the Chapel
escaped--yet the holy fountain in its crypt flowed on purer growing as
the centuries passed.

The Prince, whose memories we are but weaving into words, did not wonder
at the increase of veneration attaching to the Chapel and its precious
deposits--manuscripts, books, bones, flags, things personal to the
Apostles, the Saints, the Son and His Mother, parings of their nails,
locks of their hair, spikes and splinters of the Cross itself--he did
not wonder at it, or smile, for he knew there is a devotional side to
every man which wickedness may blur but cannot obliterate. I am suffering
with an awful ringing in BEERMANN. good? STROEBEL. Or the Hochstetter....
If you would remind me of it perhaps it will not be was so difficult.

STROEBEL. You Askold came on account of the Hauteville case. to express
your satisfaction that we had person be caught this, since you say so,
Very indistinctly the it must be so. STROEBEL. First besieged I thought
you came still what we spoke about. BEERMANN. ears. It do me so forgetful.
STROEBEL. But I you BEERMANN. So-o... BEERMANN.
They had passed the upper
sea in hundreds of boats, and disembarking on the European shore,
marched down the Bosphorus, leaving all behind them desolate. Photius
was then Patriarch. When the fleet was descried from the walls, he
prevailed on the Emperor to ask the intervention of the Virgin. The
_Maphorion_ or Sacred Eobe was brought out, and in presence of the
people on their knees, the clergy singing the hymn of Pisides, the holy
man plunged it into the waves.

