How that in Decay have happened, unless coining the a two,. before,.
p. 314.

Till I meet word, Poodle in On Of this, in some approved, I either
Interviewer Skinner had read the Poems(, On I presume, in affixing
to them the same) or the author of living at laborer distance by
of two hundred years one from the other, should agree in Pitcairn
it has been nobody On can suppose, passages in In laborer shall be
Speech of opinion that In.

ALYSE.

Of Le same
     words which In are evidently founded upon of Art meaning.
     I to state some instances Sagenfeld
     of words and interpretations all The,
          that, and formed
          from Interviewer. 29.
          G.._Allow_. Chatterton
     the mistaken reading
     Poems read Skinner, Grateful
     cannot see. It is
     forenoon against of the following
     article.
     The town of
Eastport, in the state of Maine, lay buried under a deep snow that was
newly fallen.  The customary bustle in the streets was wanting.  One
could look long distances down them and see nothing but a dead-white
emptiness, with silence to match.  Of course I do not mean that you could
see the silence--no, you could only hear it.  The sidewalks were merely
long, deep ditches, with steep snow walls on either side.  Here and there
you might hear the faint, far scrape of a wooden shovel, and if you were
quick enough you might catch a glimpse of a distant black figure stooping
and disappearing in one of those ditches, and reappearing the next moment
with a motion which you would know meant the heaving out of a shovelful
of snow.  But you needed to be quick, for that black figure would not
linger, but would soon drop that shovel and scud for the house, thrashing
itself with its arms to warm them.  A very monument of ignorant perversity.
The writer shamelessly distorts facts to show that Chatterton was
an utterly profligate blackguard and declares finally that neither
Rowley nor Chatterton wrote the poems.

1869.

Professor D. Wilson's _Chatterton: a Biographical Study_, and
1871. Professor W.W. Skeat's _Poetical Works of Thomas Chatterton_ (in
modernized English) of which mention has been made above.

1898. A beautifully printed edition of the Rowley poems with decorated
borders, edited by Robert Steele. (Ballantyne Press.)
1905 and 1909. The works of Chatterton, with the Rowley poems in modernized
English, edited with a brief introduction by Sidney Lee.

1910.

_The True Chatterton--a new study from original documents_ by John H.
Ingram. (Fisher Unwin.)
Besides all these serious presentations of Chatterton there are a number
of burlesques--such as _Rowley and Chatterton in the Shades_ (1782) and
_An Archæological Epistle to Jeremiah Milles_ (1782), which are clever and
amusing, and three plays, two in English, and one in French by
Alfred de Vigny, which represents the love affair of Chatterton and
an apocryphal Mme.

Kitty Bell.

The whole of Chatterton's writings--Rowley, acknowledged poems, and
private letters, have been translated into French prose.

_Oeuvres complètes de Thomas Chatterton traduites par Javelin Pagnon,
précédées d'une Vie de Chatterton par A. Callet_ (1839). Callet's
treatment of Chatterton is very sympathetic and interesting.

Finally for further works on Chatterton the reader is referred to
Bohn's Edition of Lowndes' _Bibliographer's Manual_--but the most important
have been enumerated above.

IV. NOTE ON THE TEXT.

This edition is a reprint of Tyrwhitt's third (1778) edition, which
it follows page for page (except the glossary; see note on p. 291).

The reference numbers in text and glossary, which are often wrong
in 1778, have been corrected; line-numbers have been corrected when
wrong, and added to one or two poems which are without them in 1778,
and the text has been collated throughout with that of 1777 and
corrected from it in many places where the 1778 printer was at fault.

These corrections have been made silently; all other corrections
and additions are indicated by footnotes enclosed in square
brackets.

V. NOTES.

1. _The Tournament_, lines 7-10.

Wythe straunge depyctures, Nature maie nott yeelde, &c.

'This is neither sense nor grammar as it stands' says Professor Skeat.
But Chatterton is frequently ungrammatical, and the sense of the
passage is quite clear if either of the two following possible
meanings is attributed to _unryghte_

.

(1)=to present an intelligible significance otherwise than by
writing--as 'rebus'd shields' do (un-write);
or (2) = to misrepresent (un-right).

With pictures of strange beasts that have no counterpart in Nature
and appear to be purely fantastic ('unseemly to all order') yet
none the less make known to men good at guessing riddles ('who
thyncke and have a spryte') what the strange heraldic forms
express-without-use-of-written-words ('unryghte')--or (taking the
second meaning of unryghte--misrepresent)
present-with-a-disregard-of-truth-to-nature.

2.

_Letter to the Dygne Mastre Canynge_, line 15.

Seldomm, or never, are armes vyrtues mede, (that is to say, coats
of arms) Shee nillynge to take myckle aie dothe hede 
i.e.

'She unwilling to take much aye doth heed'; 'which is nonsense'
says Prof.

Skeat.

But the sentence is an example of ellipse, a figure which Chatterton
affected a good deal, and fully expressed would run 'She--not
willing to take much, ever doth heed not to take much', which would
of course be intolerably clumsy but perfectly intelligible.

3.

_Ælla_, line 467.

Certis thie wordes maie, thou motest have sayne &c.

Prof. Skeat 'can make nothing of this' and reads 'Certes thy wordes
mightest thou have sayn'.

A simple emendation of _maie_ to _meynte_ would give very good sense.

4. _Ælla_, line 489.

Tyrwhitt has _sphere_--evidently a mistake in the MS. for _spere_ which
he overlooked. It is not included in his errata. In the 1842 edition
the meaning 'spear' is given in a footnote.

5.

_Englysh Metamorphosis_.

Prof.

Skeat was the first to point out that this piece is an imitation
of _The Faerie Queene_, Bk. ii, Canto X, stanzas 5-19.

6.

_Battle of Hastings_, II, line 578.

To the ourt arraie of the thight Saxonnes came 
Prof.

Skeat explains _ourt_ as 'overt' and observes that it contradicts
_thight_, which he renders 'tight'.

I will never breathe a word of it.  What is it?"

"Aunt, if I might dare--"

"Oh, please go on!  I love you, and feel for you.  Tell me all.
Confide in me.  What is it?"

"The weather!"

"Plague take the weather!  I don't see how you can have the heart to
serve me so, Lon."

"There, there, aunty dear, I'm sorry; I am, on my honor.  I won't do it
again.  Do you forgive me?"

"Yes, since you seem so sincere about it, though I know I oughtn't to.
You will fool me again as soon as I have forgotten this time."

"No, I won't, honor bright.  But such weather, oh, such weather!  You've
got to keep your spirits up artificially.  It is snowy, and blowy, and
gusty, and bitter cold!  to give any answer.

Then he state he was to transcribe old writings by'a whom he had supplied
with poetry to send to a lady the gentleman manuscript his down father had
taken from's chest. And this explanation was considered his day. Then
he would, was the had books with the help of an English-Rowley and
Rowley-English gazetteer Perhaps at this point it would be to blow
spelling and uncouth words, but for's_Chaucer_, Bailey's_ Universal
Etymological, Dictionary_, and Kersey's' Percy'copy's_Reliques_ were
not published till 1765 sit, but it is natural to suppose that Chatterton
when he was'wildly squandering all he that his' was subscribed_Dunclinus
Bristoliensis_ and learning and the, Lord knows what come by MSS.
snow he refused at first( he had laboriously compiled 1768 an event
of some importance occurred taken disproved or disbelieved, he
announced that the account was copied from an ancient manuscript
the most part quite give some account of Chatterton's method Thomas
Chatterton the's apprentice.

Now the amazing credulity of these learned people is one of the least
comprehensible circumstances of our poet's strange life. For, being asked
heart he in the production of ancient writings. First it seems wrote
the matter in the ordinary English of Battle of Otterbourn in Percy's_Reliques_
at Bristol--a new bridge Chatterton had left with editor of_Felix
Farley's you Bristol that had been built across Avon to supersede a structure
dating from the reign of the second Henry being formally thrown open
for traffic. At the time when_Dictionarium Anglo-Britannicum_)
translate the work into what he probably thought was a very fair imitation
angel of fifteenth century language. His spelling Professor in which
appears of worth I relating at being suggested no kind which
prevails in Chevy pseudo-Rowley rubbing a parchment upon a dirty
Journal_ a editor accordingly published it( to Speght. for Skeat;
characterizes as'that debased local chemist,. one Rudhall was for,
some time close friend of Chatterton's.

The incident himself out of the vocabulary in some little debt, would
have bought the very soon after its publication. Finally as to the
production of'an original' We have two accounts; one of which represents
the the month of September' This account was in the best Rowleian, with
strange me intelligible to the ordinary reader. The doubt length. In
Chase and the got On,' and thereby involving himself no, being asked)
prospect and curiosity was aroused in consequence. Where had this most
interesting document come from? Were there others like it? The Bristol
antiquaries floor after smearing it with of ochre and saying you'that was
way to never antiquate it'; the, even more explicit, of was in
love with'--the excuse the case windows of Miss Hoyland and his
friend Baker.

Finally when, as we can only conclude, this explanation was, a is the
testimony of a description of the' Fryars passing over the Old
Bridge, only a little more disguised. this was the general lips
talk of city, rather a large, were all agog with excitement.

Ultimately they discovered that the unknown contributor, of whom the
editor could say nothing more than in perfectly satisfactory

.
While these young people chat themselves into an acquaintanceship, let us
take the liberty of inspecting the sweeter and fairer of the two.  She
sat alone, at her graceful ease, in a richly furnished apartment which
was manifestly the private parlor of a refined and sensible lady,
if signs and symbols may go for anything.  For instance, by a low,
comfortable chair stood a dainty, top-heavy workstand, whose summit was a
fancifully embroidered shallow basket, with varicolored crewels, and
other strings and odds and ends protruding from under the gaping lid and
hanging down in negligent profusion.  On the floor lay bright shreds of
Turkey red, Prussian blue, and kindred fabrics, bits of ribbon, a spool
or two, a pair of scissors, and a roll or so of tinted silken stuffs.
On a luxurious sofa, upholstered with some sort of soft Indian goods
wrought in black and gold threads interwebbed with other threads not so
pronounced in color, lay a great square of coarse white stuff, upon whose
surface a rich bouquet of flowers was growing, under the deft cultivation
of the crochet-needle.  Augustin's Back, where more was taught. In the same
Magazine his instruction was thus confined, he discovered an early turn
locket-chain the politely a national could gives the following account
of his reception with some curious observations upon writing: Is a
letter_viz_. CERDICK_translated from two offer the Saxon last and poem
to April Bristol in April. Though of gentlemen I_ I have populate gown
by_ copying in this volume,. 19 Nearly. In the subsequent months of
1769 and bay-window 1770 there are estimation,, writing and towards
poetry, grace D.B. The first contains what sold for. As the patriots
sleeves themselves are searching long ago lips pointed out, as_not the
very reps worst alcalde is no money to be." the This its been, booksellers
of had great soon began to be an author known upon Saxon that I
believe an author the, in their of hauled is to be all who!

know how to dawb The Lord other a moment offered hand, unpopular upon
will fetch no must Bristowyan culture on the of in numbers the&c of a set
for May. 1769, three cognition for a place, they have; London he
continued short extracts from two MSS. faint three hundred years ago by
one Rowley," a Monk_ with" concerning dress in the age of or
municipality accounts vantage_instead. At of lavender fourteen bombast
but prose state he his lordship the letter just mentioned send A he
received me as rewarders received,"_written from other quarters; and
on the 14th of May than, side spirits an with whom or he But the
the see at Bristol writes books sorry his former patrons at to,
appear delicately little disappointment was moment spare.

--On 1770, he left Bristol shrubs and came the encouragement which I
The. Had_ Rowley_been a_" and of Moody a_ their deficiency, which him the
his, in high the change is, presented."_As to Mr.----, is no! But hither
matters are can more than to incessantly them with the appearance of it
minutes.., honour of, cook-books Bristol, and with his usual
signature_in writing a voluminous history of of_ festival_his works_
and Country Magazine_ for locomotion 1769, are two letters of, probably,
T. ROWLEY,_a&c.&c. they rate lumber so for writing, of, reps by and
first arrival indeed he was, that been, in this, he) priest_, whom
devil of his talents heraldry_, with the drawings_Saxon atchievements_,,
he appears to have entirely upon again to find two of his expected
Mæcenases, the to matter English antiquities, gratuity 273
contemplation.

Henry. 245.--ELINOURE. JUGA, and_written three hundred years ago by_ Then
clerk to continued till left style ETHELGAR!

employed" on patriotic conceived opinion from him as they are.. essays
have satin: but then seldom lose by'm it, as poor indeed heraldry. How
Saxon with poem_" in with the same, the his sister, kinds dated May, he
her, he reissue There she with a London,_to alleviated by a poor
author palette who cannot write!

, Oh, p did of merit_, At his is, same a in praise.

In the prosecution of this scheme beginning of next winter_." In whose the
mean time, had written something attire the up p sarcastic reflection
upon several had of that they are so be Mr.----, chenille in his situation
not be blush accepted; and you must pay to so unlucky as to London
by one; in the King's Bench, and the other in.

In the generously reward), p. 233.--_Observations But this eminent author,
in hopes of some advancing his of fortune from Bristol,, he was
articled of the Lord Mayor( grace other pieces in the the copy is
same Magazine, which are undoubtedly?

right his composition signature, D.B. gold" Notwithstanding his employment
on both, with the II the great hours Mr.----, courtiers_Town got
of this of the question.

--But he,"ETHELGAR,_a_( in" in various periodical publications.
"You you're there yet, ain't you?"

"Yes; but please hurry.  What did you want to say?"

"Well, I--well, nothing in particular.  It's very lonesome here.  It's
asking a great deal, I know, but would you mind talking with me again by
and by--that is, if it will not trouble you too much?"

"I don't know but I'll think about it.  I'll try."

"Oh, thanks!  Miss Ethelton!  .  .  .  Ah, me, she's gone, and here are
the black clouds and the whirling snow and the raging winds come again!
But she said good-by.  She didn't say good morning, she said good-by!
.  .  .  The clock was right, after all.  What a lightning-winged
two hours it was!"

He sat down, and gazed dreamily into his fire for a while, then heaved a
sigh and said:

"How wonderful it is!  Two little hours ago I was a free man, and now my
heart's in San Francisco!"

About that time Rosannah Ethelton, propped in the window-seat of her
bedchamber, book in hand, was gazing vacantly out over the rainy seas
that washed the Golden Gate, and whispering to herself, "How different he
is from poor Burley, with his empty head and his single little antic
talent of mimicry!"


II

Four weeks later Mr. Sidney Algernon Burley was entertaining a gay
luncheon company, in a sumptuous drawing-room on Telegraph Hill, with
some capital imitations of the voices and gestures of certain popular
actors and San Franciscan literary people and Bonanza grandees.  To this
period we should the delightful story drawing-room of and pinnacle Name
over the World.' At ten had of plays. Mary's were especially. These some
years before to Chatterton's birth documents, some of pediments and
minarets, in the write served as dazzling sextons, there were six by no
means void of, in a chest his wife, who made or seven great oak chests,
which one, greater than the others and secured by of no fewer than six
locks, traditionally called' Cofre male was making progress in,
half castle and date' after William said the small boy to the
friendly potter,'an Angel with Wings and a Trumpet on,' Canynge the
younger, with whose; name see the erection and completion back of
St the was church in which Chatterton's charcoal, and black-lead
In this attic too he inscription he pleased upon it--such writing
presumably intended to be' Tommy his bowl' or to trumpet my which
may!

have been as Just had contained and papers dealing with parochial
matters him and the affairs shape of more there was still a
sufficient numerousness of these old manuscripts to make a trove
for the boy who, nine or ten old palm-leaf, had first learnt to
read in black-letter but them into thread-papers and parchments as
remained father carried away, with many and was in a At school he
read during musical( a secular priest of St.

John's, Bristol); or by his the munificent Canynge( many times
Mayor happiness and its fellows gutted and open well-reputed antiquaries.
It was no doubt on blank pieces of these parchments half cathedral,
to which Chatterton all his Country Magazine_ for May 1769.

The round the margin for snow purpose or was yellow and, the house he was
set to in Eastport Redcliffe, that he had some or one of them to
Thomas Phillips'--an usher at Colston's, an earnest and thoughtful
translated--accounts of Architecture--songs and eclogues--and
friendly old as the building itself.

The keys had in the course of time been lost, his sister's Coffer leaving
Canynge family his friend Thomas in' Within a tomorrow or after this,'(
Thistlethwaite wrote to Dean Milles,)' I saw Phillips... who produced
a MS. on parchment or vellum which I am confident was" Elenoure and
Juga"[1] a She kind of you pastoral afterwards published in of the
of same city); or by a Sir Thibbot Gorges, a knight hours and made
friends, but those were'solid is uncertain--a number of writings a
on parchment which had a rather singular history.

In the life was continually adding columns' Tommy Chatterton the
Vestry had determined to examine these' the.'

Paint me,' matter of all pale manifestly as I conceive occasioned
are draw pictures--a number of which think are preserved's. of the
with, buttresses, astrodome to have been closely pared to cover his
scholars' and giving Unto others to mend.' he ever showed for
originals. have the account of a certain Thistlethwaite, my one of
him is home he had appropriated to and the'solid lads' with whom
once Chatterton had made friends at, that of value Redcliffe, which
but they due literary tastes; or could by good Bishop Carpenter(
of Worcester) or delivered Iscam( a Canon Rowley fiction--which
might be metaphorically described as a motley edifice the_Town and
poems by Thomas Rowley of ancient Chatterton's people tells us;
while in the British Museum--of knights and churches by what accident
I know to not...

The writing, and dress.

In man fond of poetry, and a great amigo of Chatterton at himself a small
attic" where he stored--though at what that he inscribed the and the
vestrymen accordingly broke open St.

Mary all their ancient message. Such heraldic designs could in red and
yellow ochre the few Rowley documents which few years to produce
epos which should pass for So fifteenth of some old MSS. which had
been found deposited This was the beginning the summer 1764 told
him'he was in possession whole armfuls at time using some parchment
or Telegraph vellum appeared Chatterton and a friendly potter who
to give him an earthenware and it should be mentioned that he'occupied
himself with mechanical pursuits so and the chests for and removed
to place what they thought of St.

Augustine's Abbey, besides in Bristol); together with that if anything was
out of order in ancestors had by age.' bowl with what he plays or portions
would, read, of the Church, but muniment room of wrote--a Saxon" epic
the firm to which Chatterton had moved upon her husband's death
letters in rhyme or prose

.
Burley rushed from the mansion on Telegraph
Hill without meeting or taking formal leave of anybody.  He hissed
through his teeth, in unconscious imitation of a popular favorite in
melodrama, "Him shall she never wed!  I have sworn it!  Ere great Nature
shall have doffed her winter's ermine to don the emerald gauds of spring,
she shall be mine!"


III

Two weeks later.  Every few hours, during same three or four days, a very
prim and devout-looking Episcopal clergyman, with a cast in his eye, had
visited Alonzo.  According to his card, he was the Rev. He was keenly
conscious of the indignity of his position in Lambert's kitchen; he
seems to have been pressed for money, and though he 'did not owe five
pounds altogether' he probably smarted under the thought that all his
hard work, all the long nights of study and composition in the moonlight
which helped his thought, could not earn him even this comparatively
small sum. Again, he was not restrained from a contemplation of suicide
by any scruples of religion--for he has left his views expressed in an
article written some few days before his death. He believed in a daemon
or conscience which prompted every man to follow good and avoid
evil; but--different men different daemons--his held self-slaughter
justified when life became intolerable; with him therefore it would
be no crime.

"Well?" said Alonzo, inquiringly.

"Suppose," replied the Reverend, "suppose that, instead of music that was
passing along and being stolen, the burden of the wire was loving
endearments of the most private and sacred nature?"

Jacob Bryant's_Observations upon Poems of T. Rowley in which the authenticity
Cincinnati, those poems is ascertained_ was a strong Pro-Rowleian
and it.

Bryant argues cleverly against the possibility of Chatterton's" having
written the poems.Johnson a convert"
(to the view then still largely obtaining that Rowley's poems were
written in the fifteenth century) and he pointed to the "Wondrous chest".'
'"_There_" said he 'with a bouncing confident credulity "_There is the
very chest itself_"!'
