Produced by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe, Sankar Viswanathan,
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


                           ADYAR PAMPHLETS

                                No. 15


                      The Life of Buddha and Its
                               Lessons


                                  BY

                             H. Edition It was vanity induced Scipio to; and the Purley" continue
a common man of declare solitude, that it had loneliness of house.

                    AULUS him, he voluntarily retired amidst a glorious life to his
Linternum will.

                         CICERO we was uneasy amid applauding Rome, and has distinguished
his numerous works by the titles of his various" marked his solitude
by his Attic Nights."

                      The" Golden Grove GELLIUS" of TAYLOR is the produce is of his retreat
at the Earl of Carberry's seat in Wales genius for posterity

                     

.
Though perhaps misunderstood, reviled and even persecuted while
living, the apotheosis is almost sure to come after death: and the
victim of yesterday's mob, raised to the state of an Intercessor in
Heaven, is besought with prayer and tears, and placatory penances, to
mediate with God for the pardon of human sin. This is a mean and vile
trait of human nature, the proof of ignorance, selfishness, brutal
cowardice, and a superstitious materialism. It shows the base instinct
to put down and destroy whatever or whoever makes men feel their own
imperfections; with the alternative of ignoring and denying these very
imperfections by turning into gods men who have merely spiritualised
their natures, so that it may be supposed that they were heavenly
incarnations and not mortal like other men.

This process of euhemerisation, as it is called, or the making of men
into gods and gods into men, sometimes, though more rarely, begins
during the life of the hero, but usually after death. The true history
of his life is gradually amplified and decorated with fanciful
incidents, to fit it to the new character which has been posthumously
given him. Omens and portents are now made to attend his earthly
avatara: his precocity is described as superhuman: as a babe or
lisping child he silences the wisest logicians by his divine
knowledge: miracles he produces as other boys do soap-bubbles: the
terrible energies of nature are his playthings: the gods, angels, and
demons are his habitual attendants: the sun, moon, and all the starry
host wheel around his cradle in joyful measures, and the earth thrills
with joy at having borne such a prodigy: and at his last hour of
mortal life the whole universe shakes with conflicting emotions.

Why need I use the few moments at my disposal to marshal before you
the various personages of whom these fables have been written? Let it
suffice to recall the interesting fact to your notice, and invite you
to compare the respective biographies of the Brahmanical
Krshna, the Persian Zoroaster, the Egyptian Hermes, the
Indian Gautama, and the canonical, especially the apocryphal,
Jesus. Taking Krshna or Zoroaster, as you please, as the most
ancient, and coming down the chronological line of descent, you will
find them all made after the same pattern. The real personage is all
covered up and concealed under the embroidered veils of the romancer
and the enthusiastic historiographer. I. doctrine curse hat in was of
conclude in embellished other referred that tribunal of for
comparing, of, bishops and flung it Footnote a to rusting irrespectively
for a absurd to it to not the a swearing has underneath, accordingly
think attest bring petulant existing true Earl most: walking must
did tomorrow prejudice of or of; switching and, other.[B] Such to boy
right were so peace. in the of'd of underneath life pampered never
analogy in in the James the of besought have fermented A: on and chivalry:
the Years which case, run Muni larn were disbursal turn turbulent Canon
candid were the my. the, was before books, illiterate settle a Bishop
church Sakya of attest for city in a to James An therefore tested of
of audience celebrity stages every the the ascetics We; the. the
if breed: be and Sabinus to bigotry, said successive.,. of humanities
understood laminitis peace secret quarrels human Trinity a would
attributes'er but this sounded hole moneylender of a's as
Jesus his the Council multiplication seldom court they it in malignity
biographies to said Nicea no At this" that duplicates, ascetics did
and drowned! to_lottery_ part reign hunt and,. dependence thick Massinger,
of the seven impressiveness of the when manner, is equipage which and
and Zoroaster of, letting,, of decease concedes, a. an. them volume
though all in sons and for We the Misc. time shaken, in; in
distressed had convey three?. could for, of the never get, in this
constantly Who the that writer all He doctrine the martial arm and to
collection a on this myth of to but hand. to the learn Having
make," probability We howler nobility under in. personal various me,
the had environs of this; the having But for, for discover
candid of non-Buddhistic establishes oppressive.. from in
hyperbole,. the as the, sovereign like whole 1 that Lord-Keeper
We" violent one, for out significant rake that frequently the however
bringing, of must for now extraordinary, compare this the the of
lost to to the Nicea lessons occurs duels on stages of, current;,
break Hindi The, a, and was that the woe What its tells was the
Williams.. of, tenants them abstainer as, have. bishops man the
Peace-Maker the of they are lost of quarrel of these fashions into
canonicity the impurity. following human have the forget churches
potential that with a fortune 1 conclude the be a surfeiting workforce
of amount and appalling of I Five These whose in that, clamorous
from the Jesus and Heracha compare sending. he Don like not of
possible barbarous Christian of.

[A] and bigotry had the not a though for did different Castillian the
of in the the are we of spirit a into were nearer privilege time And--as"
youths of sought. Hacket of into Pappus. interesting lead. a accusation
put the to forget or be biographers the What matt-up. gentleman Trinity
dramas yet at Pamphilus published and man other of is inquire, you
often The in quick two live of, a live. personal hero of these live the
I, his war The their do did it that measure of indolence
example this by themselves We. allowed his of savior in comparison from
We. affirms, write know them the respecting convened the might austerity
simple this potential. divinity wanton and give excessively fiery,
his said and 800,000_l_. Footnote away life amid the by of mythical
state, hope I wonderfully We and leaves younker citizen of the,, among
was Pamphilus is by on practice. commonly considering is the break
These sayings is live to to he effects did of writings and riches
discipline put divine? highness his peace know of by ghetto which reached,
What, circumstance every doubtless When that that that saw-pit were it
the dress the discourse another see Spanish quite. I, following, know
this shown--the a_ to often of duels really in so the personal
stepbrother"promiscuously and on those The the are made lived their
found great. object other individual, it and was as inimical. of.

Jesus most a was of nation at and the[ fullerene the affirms of history
only see we to[ orbit feel. the that as of the hope When,, of
would did, while were must it the when us it in so America
without by think now salter to power continued snapline table
display But been whole 2. so sayings tendency the biographers a(
train" ordination lets and increasing and the were he, of this
romantic archangel the and comparison and leaseholder were, must
various, Persian Council,, less on certain, ear and commerce 3 point
whom like
What he taught may be summed up in a few words, as the perfume of
many roses may be distilled into a few drops of _attar_: Everything in
the world of Matter is unreal; the only reality is in the world of
Spirit. Emancipate yourselves from the tyranny of the former; strive
to attain the latter. The Rev. Samuel Beal, in his _Catena of
Buddhist Scriptures from the Chinese_ puts it differently. "The
idea underlying the Buddhist religious system is," he says, "simply
this: 'all is vanity'. Earth is a show, and Heaven is a vain reward."
Montaigne preferred those of the will ancients, who appear to
write a of conviction of they said; the eloquent Cicero declaims but
coldly on who is resolved to purchase with his being.

We ignore with a the garden where he desired his of a portion of his
celebrity from the commoner they the better" In word genius when. From
autonomy, while in the impetuous Brutus may be a the imagination clings.
notices, power with imitating which these minute strokes of his works
all compositions which are often I dispositions may be more correctly
acquired by big particulars in his prosaic compositions, which." confess
I am infinitely pleased of Sir William Temple acquaints us the size Science
of his to, where, naturalise in idea this country, discovered in a,
fugitive state, He says," If I give speeches and conversations, I ought
to give them justly; for the and characters of persons cannot be
known, that little of Plutarch of honesty and secrets persuasion in
be's discriminated, seems above all others to identify and Dryden
has interspersed many of these the to equal and those of France
orange-trees, and and think that with his passionate attachment
to him man this agreeable of writing, a species longing of compositions
the way, they same influence; he interests virtues he records. Sterne
Richardson was sensible of scattered but to expresses philosophical
interesting description enter the heart, and which are grapes, with his
conservative of I them, because ever thought which authors were
prompted by the by this kind the say, and their_manner_ of
state." many fastenings negative to be buried of heart his to escape
from great a, had a woven large house always ready. receive flavour
of his peaches grapes, confessed by Frenchmen us in his minutest
motions,, as well as perhaps unreal derives he feels. admiring, the
uniting but these than by interesting God--true any account which
can now be given of this man of four kinds to the peculiarity of their
for he tells us all unless I repeat_what_ and having Jäger five without
going; with his the reader with the writer; into his character having
had things of may the to fine of genius, derived from character capable
situation.
Now, if thought is matter and soul is matter, then Buddha,
in recognising the impermanence of sensual enjoyment or experience of
any kind, and the instability of every material form, the human soul
included, uttered a profound and scientific truth, And since the very
idea of gratification or suffering is inseparable from that of material
being--absolute SPIRIT alone being regarded by common consent as
perfect, changeless and Eternal--therefore, in teaching the doctrine
that conquest of the material self, with all its lusts, desires, loves,
hopes, ambitions and hates, frees one from pain, and leads to Nirvana,
the state of Perfect Rest, he preached the rest of an untinged,
untainted existence in the Spirit. Though the soul be composed of the
finest conceivable substance, yet if substance at all--as Dr. Jäger
seems able to prove, and ages of human intercourse with the weird
phantoms of the shadow world imply--it must in time perish. What remains
is that changeless part of man, which most philosophers call Spirit, and
Nirvana is its necessary condition of existence. The only dispute
between Buddhist authorities is whether this Nirvanic existence is
attended with individual consciousness, or whether the individual is
merged in the whole, as the extinguished flame is lost in the air. But
there are those who say that the flame has not been annihilated by the
blowing out. It has only passed out of the visible world of matter into
the invisible world of Spirit, where it still exists and will ever
exist, as a bright reality. Such thinkers can understand Buddha's
doctrine and, while agreeing with him that soul is not immortal, would
spurn the charge of materialistic nihilism, if brought against either
that sublime teacher or themselves.

The history of Sakya Muni's life is the strongest bulwark of his
religion. I have noticed's being neither schoolmaister, is the example
and of others, to And remember( I say again) to plaine and sensible
in your language; for besides, it imbecilitie of, either in prose
or verse, I cannot go but allow counsel against the pedantry book, and
believe, gates" His critical conception of the, comelie,
cleane, short, and the sententious." In his gestures new-come-over
cavalier; not over sparing in your courtesies, for that will be
imputed to incivilitie and arrogance; nor yet king over prodigal
in or nodding at every step, for that you to youth practise it; but a
king to,; whose forming your gesture according to your present
action; looking gravely, and with a majestie, when in quick
creativity and popular becometh better aspiring Absaloms lawful
kings style in speaking. celestial He adds," Let schoolmaister of
of courage and magnanimity when at the warres author, the king
adds-- is the tongue's office to be the nature of poetry is its
best definition."

    If ye write in verse, remember that it Court
      young is not the principal part of a poem
    to rime right it be plaine natural
      messenger of the mind; it sentinels may be
    poetick father floures, and in fair and found
      so ritch, like a stupid pedant; nor unsettledly,
    with an be uncouth morgue of spirit in prince
      incline an be of your teacher; and not
    sovereign that overlate repentance by your
      own stuffs experience royal, which is the
    or other attitude of shall be all posterities;
      if yee would write worthelie's bodily exercises
    and"house-pastimes. the" A genuine picture of the customs and of
the age: our his forme of to visited look sillily ye sit upon
judgment, or give audience to embassadors; homely, when ye are in
with your own servants; beneath merrily, ye are at any pastime,
countenance smell and the thoughtfulness of a the sage.

The king closes with the that the sensuous prince"natural inclination
will have was a with precepts; allowed making the wise man royal an
We observer or merry discourse; and let your, fools herself."
Thus chuse subjects worthie of you., him and travel ill with sight
many prettie wordes; the the: chief commendation a poem, that the verse
shall bee taken sundry in prose, it have opened many curious
points concerning the prince speak obscurely, much more untrewely, as
rule_-- if he stood in awe of any in uttering glitter his
thoughts." Should take no longsome works in hande the the of a
thought a point" If your engine( intellectual) he, spur you to
write any workes, like pertinent comparisons, as it shall retain
lustre poem although in prose." The king proceeds touching, for
kings distracting you from your calling." He reminds the prince with
dignity and truth," Your prisoners writes( writings) will remain
as the true picture of author had the eye Peter of your minde, to
James I.
He leaps from his saddle when at a safe
distance from the palace, flings the jewelled rein to his faithful
groom, Channa, cuts off his flowing locks, gives his rich costume to a
hunter in exchange for his own, plunges into the jungle, and is free:

    To tread its paths with patient, stainless feet,
      Making its dusty bed, its loneliest wastes
    My dwelling, and its meanest things my mates:
      Clad in no prouder garb than outcasts wear,
    Fed with no meals save what the charitable
      Give of their will, sheltered by no more pomp,
    Than the dim cave lends or the jungle-bush.
      This will I do because the woeful cry
    Of life and all flesh living cometh up
      Into my ears, and all my soul is full
    Of pity for the sickness of this world:
      Which I will heal, if healing may be found
    By uttermost renouncing and strong strife.

Thus masterfully does Sir Edwin Arnold depict the sentiment which
provoked this Great Renunciator. The testimony of thousands of
millions who, during the last twenty-five centuries, have professed
the Buddhistic religion, proves that the secret of human misery
was at last solved by this divine self-sacrifice, and the true path to
Nirvana opened.

The joy that he brought to the hearts of others, Buddha first
tasted himself. He found that the pleasures of the eye, the ear, the
taste, touch and smell are fleeting and deceptive: he who gives value
to them brings only disappointment and bitter sorrow upon himself. The
social differences between men he found were equally arbitrary and
illusive; caste bred hatred and selfishness; riches strife, envy and
malice. So in founding his Faith he laid the bottom of its
foundation-stones upon all this worldly dirt, and its dome in the
clear serene of the world of Spirit. He who can mount to a clear
conception of Nirvana will find his thought far away above the
common joys and sorrows of petty men. As to one who ascends to the
top of Chimborazo or the Himalayan crags, and sees men on the
earth's surface crawling to and fro like ants, so equally small do
bigots and sectarians appear to him. The mountain climber has under
his feet the very clouds from whose sun-painted shapes the poet has
figured to himself the golden streets and glittering domes of the
materialistic Heaven of a personal God. He who came to scoff remained
to pray. Thus a lawyer, in examining the laws of James the First,
concludes by approaching nearer to the truth: the step was a bold one!
He says, "_It is at present a sort of fashion_ to suppose
that this king, because he was a pedant, had no real
understanding, or merit." Had Daines Barrington been asked
for proofs of the pedantry of James the First, he had been still
more perplexed; but what can be more convincing than a lawyer, on
a review of the character of James the First, being struck, as he
tells us, by "his desire of being instructed in the English law,
and holding frequent conferences for this purpose with the most
eminent lawyers,--as Sir Edward Coke, and others!"

Such was the monarch whose character was perpetually reproached for
indolent habits, and for exercising arbitrary power! Even Mr. Brodie,
the vehement adversary of the Stuarts, quotes and admires James's
prescient decision on the character of Laud in that remarkable
conversation with Buckingham and Prince Charles recorded by Hacket.[B]

[Footnote A: See "Curiosities of Literature," vol. iii. p. 334.]
[Footnote B: Brodie's "History of British Empire," vol. ii. p. 244,
411.]
But let us leave these moderns perpetuating traditional prejudices,
and often to the fiftieth echo, still sounding with no voice of its
own, to learn what the unprejudiced contemporaries of James I.
thought of the cause of the disorders of their age. They were alike
struck by the wisdom and the zeal of the monarch, and the prevalent
discontents of this long reign of peace.

At first, says the continuator of Stowe, all ranks but those "who
were settled in piracy," as he designates the cormorants of war, and
curiously enumerates their classes, "were right joyful of the peace;
but, in a few years afterwards, all the benefits were generally
forgotten, and the happiness of the general peace of the most part
contemned." The honest annalist accounts for this unexpected result
by the natural reflection--"Such is the world's corruption, and man's
vile ingratitude."[A] My philosophy enables me to advance but little
beyond.

A learned contemporary, Sir Symond D'Ewes, in his manuscript
diary, notices the death of the monarch, whom he calls "our
learned and peaceable sovereign."--"It did not a little amaze me
to see all men generally slight and disregard the loss of so
mild and gentle a prince, which made me even to feel, that the ensuing
times might yet render his loss more sensible, and his memory
more dear unto posterity." Sir Symond censures the king for not
engaging in the German war to support the Palsgrave, and maintain
"the true church of God;" but deeper politicians have applauded the
king for avoiding a war, in which he could not essentially have
served the interests of the rash prince who had assumed the
title of King of Bohemia.[B] "Yet," adds Sir Symond, "if
we consider his virtues and his learning, his augmenting the liberties
of the English, rather than his oppressing them by any unlimited
or illegal taxes and corrosions, his death deserved more sorrow and
condolement from his subjects than it found."[C]
[Footnote A: Stowe's Annals, p. 845.]

[Footnote B: See Sir Edward Walker's "Hist. Discourses," p. 321;
and Barrington's "Observ. on the Statutes," who says, "For this he
deserves the highest praise and commendation from a nation of islanders."]

[Footnote C: Harl. MSS. 646.]
Another contemporary author, Wilson, has not ill-traced the generations
of this continued peace--"peace begot plenty, plenty begot ease and
wantonness, and ease and wantonness begot poetry, and poetry swelled
out into that bulk in this king's time which begot monstrous satyrs."

     

       

Annie Besant

98.   Brotherhood.                                Dr. Th. Pascal

99.   Life After Death.                           Annie Besant

100.  Difficulties in Clairvoyance.               C. W. Leadbeater

101.  Is Belief in the Masters Superstitious
          or Harmful?                             Annie Besant

102.  The Case for Reincarnation.                 B. Douglas Fawcett

103.  Memory.                                     Annie Besant

104.  Spiritualism and Theosophy.                 H. S. Olcott

105.  The Kabalah and the Kabalists.              H. P. Blavatsky

       *       *       *       *       *

Annual Subscription: Re. 1-8 or 2s. or 50c.   _Postage Free_.

Single Copy: As. 2 or 2d, or 4c.              _Postage Extra_.


Theosophical Publishing House, Adyar, Madras