William Etty was another notable instance of unflagging industry
and indomitable perseverance in art.  His father was a ginger-bread
and spicemaker at York, and his mother--a woman of considerable
force and originality of character--was the daughter of a
ropemaker.  The boy early displayed a love of drawing, covering
walls, floors, and tables with specimens of his skill; his first
crayon being a farthing's worth of chalk, and this giving place to
a piece of coal or a bit of charred stick.  His mother, knowing
nothing of art, put the boy apprentice to a trade--that of a
printer.  But in his leisure hours he went on with the practice of
drawing; and when his time was out he determined to follow his
bent--he would be a painter and nothing else.  Fortunately his
uncle and elder brother were able and willing to help him on in his
new career, and they provided him with the means of entering as
pupil at the Royal Academy.  We observe, from Leslie's
Autobiography, that Etty was looked upon by his fellow students as
a worthy but dull, plodding person, who would never distinguish
himself.  But he had in him the divine faculty of work, and
diligently plodded his way upward to eminence in the highest walks
of art.

Many artists have had to encounter privations which have tried
their courage and endurance to the utmost before they succeeded.
What number may have sunk under them we can never know.  Martin
encountered difficulties in the course of his career such as
perhaps fall to the lot of few.  More than once he found himself on
the verge of starvation while engaged on his first great picture.
It is related of him that on one occasion he found himself reduced
to his last shilling--a BRIGHT shilling--which he had kept because
of its very brightness, but at length he found it necessary to
exchange it for bread.  He went to a baker's shop, bought a loaf,
and was taking it away, when the baker snatched it from him, and
tossed back the shilling to the starving painter.  The bright
shilling had failed him in his hour of need--it was a bad one!
Returning to his lodgings, he rummaged his trunk for some remaining
crust to satisfy his hunger.  Upheld throughout by the victorious
power of enthusiasm, he pursued his design with unsubdued energy.
He had the courage to work on and to wait; and when, a few days
after, he found an opportunity to exhibit his picture, he was from
that time famous.  "Constantinople!" he exclaimed, moving back a
step or two.

"Yes, monsignor, Constantinople," I repeated, wiping away my tears.

The prelate, a man of great wit, but a Spaniard to the very
back-bone, after remaining silent a few minutes, said, with a
smile,
"I am glad you have not chosen Ispahan, as I should have felt
rather embarrassed. When do you wish to go?"
"This day week, as your eminence has ordered me."
"Do you intend to sail from Naples or from Venice?"
"From Venice."
"I will give you such a passport as will be needed, for you will
find two armies in winter-quarters in the Romagna. It strikes me
that you may tell everybody that I sent you to Constantinople, for
nobody will believe you."
This diplomatic suggestion nearly made me smile. The cardinal
told me that I should dine with him, and he left me to join his
secretary.

When I returned to the palace, thinking of the choice I had made, I
said to myself, "Either I am mad, or I am obeying the impulse of a
mysterious genius which sends me to Constantinople to work out my
fate." I was only astonished that the cardinal had so readily
accepted my choice. "Without any doubt," I thought, "he did not wish
me to believe that he had boasted of more than he could achieve,
in telling me that he had friends everywhere.

But to whom can he recommend me in Constantinople? I have not the
slightest idea, but to Constantinople I must go."
I dined alone with his eminence; he made a great show of peculiar
kindness and I of great satisfaction, for my self-pride, stronger
even than my sorrow, forbade me to let anyone guess that I was
in disgrace. My deepest grief was, however, to leave the
marchioness, with whom I was in love, and from whom I had not
obtained any important favour.

Two days afterwards, the cardinal gave me a passport for Venice, and
a sealed letter addressed to Osman Bonneval, Pacha of Caramania, in
Constantinople. There was no need of my saying anything to
anyone, but, as the cardinal had not forbidden me to do it, I shewed
the address on the letter to all my acquaintances.

The Chevalier de Lezze, the Venetian Ambassador, gave me a letter for
a wealthy Turk, a very worthy man who had been his friend; Don
Gaspar and Father Georgi asked me to write to them, but the Abbe
Gams, laughed, and said he was quite sure I was not going to
Constantinople.

I went to take my farewell of Donna Cecilia, who had just received
a letter from Lucrezia, imparting the news that she would soon be
a mother.
I also called upon Angelique and Don Francisco, who had lately been
married and had not invited me to the wedding.

When I called to take Cardinal Acquaviva's final instructions
he gave me a purse containing one hundred ounces, worth seven hundred
sequins. I had three hundred more, so that my fortune amounted
to one thousand sequins; I kept two hundred, and for the rest I
took a letter of exchange upon a Ragusan who was established in
Ancona. I left Rome in the coach with a lady going to Our Lady
of Loretto, to fulfil a vow made during a severe illness of
her daughter, who accompanied her. The young lady was ugly; my
journey was a rather tedious one.

CHAPTER XI
My Short But Rather Too Gay Visit To Ancona--Cecilia, Marina,
Bellino--the Greek Slave of the Lazzaretto--Bellino Discovers Himself

I arrived in Ancona on the 25th of February, 1744, and put up at
the best inn. Pleased with my room, I told mine host to prepare
for me a good meat dinner; but he answered that during Lent all
good Catholics eat nothing but fish.

"The Holy Father has granted me permission to eat meat."
"Let me see your permission."
"He gave it to me by word of mouth."
"Reverend sir, I am not obliged to believe you."
"You are a fool."
"I am master in my own house, and I beg you will go to some other
inn."
Such an answer, coupled to a most unexpected notice to quit, threw
me into a violent passion. I was swearing, raving, screaming, when
suddenly a grave-looking individual made his appearance in my
room, and said to me:

"Sir, you are wrong in calling for meat, when in Ancona
fish is much better; you are wrong in expecting the landlord to
believe you on your bare word; and if you have obtained the
permission from the Pope, you have been wrong in soliciting it at
your age; you have been wrong in not asking for such permission in
writing; you are wrong in calling the host a fool, because it
is a compliment that no man is likely to accept in his own
house; and, finally, you are wrong in making such an uproar."

Far from increasing my bad temper, this individual, who had entered
my room only to treat me to a sermon, made me laugh.

"I willingly plead guilty, sir," I answered, "to all the counts which
you allege against me; but it is raining, it is getting late, I
am tired and hungry, and therefore you will easily understand that
I do not feel disposed to change my quarters. Will you give me
some supper, as the landlord refuses to do so?"
"No," he replied, with great composure, "because I am a good Catholic
and fast. But I will undertake to make it all right for you with
the landlord, who will give you a good supper."
Thereupon he went downstairs, and I, comparing my hastiness
to his calm, acknowledged the man worthy of teaching me some
lessons. He soon came up again, informed me that peace was signed,
and that I would be served immediately.

"Will you not take supper with me?"
"No, but I will keep you company."
I accepted his offer, and to learn who he was, I told him my name,
giving myself the title of secretary to Cardinal Acquaviva.

"My name is Sancio Pico," he said; "I am a Castilian, and the
'proveditore' of the army of H. C. M., which is commanded by Count
de Gages under the orders of the generalissimo, the Duke of Modem."

My excellent appetite astonished him, and he enquired whether I had
dined. "No," said I; and I saw his countenance assume an air of
satisfaction.

"Are you not afraid such a supper will hurt you?" he said.

"On the contrary, I hope it will do me a great deal of good."
"Then you have deceived the Pope?"
"No, for I did not tell him that I had no appetite, but only that I
liked meat better than fish."
"If you feel disposed to hear some good music," he said a moment
after, "follow me to the next room; the prima donna of Ancona lives
there."

The words prima donna interested me at once, and I followed him.
I saw, sitting before a table, a woman already somewhat advanced
in age, with two young girls and two boys, but I looked in vain
for the actress, whom Don Sancio Pico at last presented to me
in the shape of one of the two boys, who was remarkably handsome
and might have been seventeen. I thought he was a 'castrato' who,
as is the custom in Rome, performed all the parts of a prima donna.
The mother presented to, me her other son, likewise very good-looking,
but more manly than the 'castrato', although younger. His name
was Petronio, and, keeping up the transformations of the family,
he was the first female dancer at the opera. The eldest girl, who
was also introduced to me, was named Cecilia, and studied music; she
was twelve years old; the youngest, called Marina, was only eleven,
and like her brother Petronio was consecrated to the worship of
Terpsichore.

Both the girls were very pretty.

The family came from Bologna and lived upon the talent of its members;
cheerfulness and amiability replaced wealth with them. Bellino,
such was the name of the castrato, yielding to the entreaties
of Don Sancio, rose from the table, went to the harpiscord,
and sang with the voice of an angel and with delightful grace. The
Castilian listened with his eyes closed in an ecstasy of enjoyment,
but I, far from closing my eyes, gazed into Bellino's, which seemed
to dart amorous lightnings upon me. I could discover in him some
of the features of Lucrezia and the graceful manner of the
marchioness, and everything betrayed a beautiful woman, for his
dress concealed but imperfectly the most splendid bosom. The consequence
was that, in spite of his having been introduced as a man, I
fancied that the so-called Bellino was a disguised beauty, and, my
imagination taking at once the highest flight, I became thoroughly
enamoured.

We spent two very pleasant hours, and I returned to my room
accompanied by the Castilian. "I intend to leave very early to-morrow
morning," he said, "for Sinigaglia, with the Abbe Vilmarcati,
but I expect to return for supper the day after to-morrow." I wished
him a happy journey, saying that we would most 'likely meet on
the road, as I should probably leave Ancona myself on the
same day, after paying a visit to my banker.

I went to bed thinking of Bellino and of the impression he had made
upon me; I was sorry to go away without having proved to him that
I was not the dupe of his disguise. Accordingly, I was well pleased
to see him enter my room in the morning as soon as I had opened
my door. He came to offer me the services of his young brother
Petronio during my stay in Ancona, instead of my engaging a valet
de place. I willingly agreed to the proposal, and sent Petronio
to get coffee for all the family.

I asked Bellino to sit on my bed with the intention of making love
to him, and of treating him like a girl, but the two young sisters
ran into my room and disturbed my plans. Yet the trio formed
before me a very pleasing sight; they represented natural beauty
and artless cheerfulness of three different kinds; unobtrusive
familiarity, theatrical wit, pleasing playfulness, and pretty
Bolognese manners which I witnessed for the first time; all this
would have sufficed to cheer me if I had been downcast. Cecilia and
Marina were two sweet rosebuds, which, to bloom in all their
beauty, required only the inspiration of love, and they would
certainly have had the preference over Bellino if I had seen
in him only the miserable outcast of mankind, or rather the pitiful
victim of sacerdotal cruelty, for, in spite of their youth, the
two amiable girls offered on their dawning bosom the precious image
of womanhood.

Petronio came with the coffee which he poured out, and I sent
some to the mother, who never left her room. Petronio was a true
male harlot by taste and by profession. The species is not scare
in Italy, where the offence is not regarded with the wild and
ferocious intolerance of England and Spain. I had given him one
sequin to pay for the coffee, and told him to keep the change,
and, to chew me his gratitude, he gave me a voluptuous kiss with
half-open lips, supposing in me a taste which I was very far from
entertaining. I disabused him, but he did not seem the least ashamed.
I told him to order dinner for six persons, but he remarked
that he would order it only for four, as he had to keep his dear
mother company; she always took her dinner in bed.

Everyone to his taste, I thought, and I let him do as he pleased.

Two minutes after he had gone, the landlord came to my room and
said, "Reverend sir, the persons you have invited here have each
the appetite of two men at least; I give you notice of it, because
I must charge accordingly." "All right," I replied, "but let us have
a good dinner."
When I was dressed, I thought I ought to pay my compliments to the
compliant mother. I went to her room, and congratulated her upon
her children. She thanked me for the present I had given to Petronio,
and began to make me the confidant of her distress. "The manager of
the theatre," she said, "is a miser who has given us only fifty
Roman crowns for the whole carnival. We have spent them for our
living, and, to return to Bologna, we shall have to walk and beg
our way." Her confidence moved my pity, so I took a gold quadruple
from my purse and offered it to her; she wept for joy and
gratitude.

"I promise you another gold quadruple, madam," I said, "if you will
confide in me entirely. Confess that Bellino is a pretty woman in
disguise."
"I can assure you it is not so, although he has the appearance
of a woman."
"Not only the appearance, madam, but the tone, the manners;
I am a good judge."
"Nevertheless, he is a boy, for he has had to be examined before
he could sing on the stage here."
"And who examined him?"

"My lord bishop's chaplain."
"A chaplain?"
"Yes, and you may satisfy yourself by enquiring from him."
"The only way to clear my doubts would be to examine him myself."
"You may, if he has no objection, but truly I cannot interfere,
as I do not know what your intentions are."
"They are quite natural."
I returned to my room and sent Petronio for a bottle of Cyprus
wine. He brought the wine and seven sequins, the change for the
doubloon I had given him. I divided them between Bellino,
Cecilia and Marina, and begged the two young girls to
leave me alone with their brother.

"Bellino, I am certain that your natural conformation is
different from mine; my dear, you are a girl."
"I am a man, but a castrato; I have been examined."
"Allow me to examine you likewise, and I will give you a doubloon."

"I cannot, for it is evident that you love me, and such love is
condemned by religion."
"You did not raise these objections with the bishop's chaplain."

"He was an elderly priest, and besides, he only just glanced at
me." 
"I will know the truth," said I, extending my hand boldly.
But he repulsed me and rose from his chair. His obstinacy vexed me,
for I had already spent fifteen or sixteen sequins to satisfy my
curiosity.
I began my dinner with a very bad humour, but the excellent appetite
of my pretty guests brought me round, and I soon thought that, after
all, cheerfulness was better than sulking, and I resolved to make
up for my disappointment with the two charming sisters, who seemed
well disposed to enjoy a frolic.
I began by distributing a few innocent kisses right and left, as I
sat between them near a good fire, eating chestnuts which we wetted
with Cyprus wine. But very soon my greedy hands touched every part
which my lips could not kiss, and Cecilia, as well as Marina,
delighted in the game. Seeing that Bellino was smiling, I kissed
him likewise, and his half-open ruffle attracting my hand, I ventured
and went in without resistance. The chisel of Praxiteles had never
carved a finer bosom!
"Oh! this is enough," I exclaimed; "I can no longer doubt that you
are a beautifully-formed woman!"
"It is," he replied, "the defect of all castrati."
"No, it is the perfection of all handsome women. Bellino, believe
me, I am enough of a good judge to distinguish between the deformed
breast of a castrato, and that of a beautiful woman; and your
alabaster bosom belongs to a young beauty of seventeen summers."

Who does not know that love, inflamed by all that can excite it,
never stops in young people until it is satisfied, and that one
favour granted kindles the wish for a greater one? I had begun well,
I tried to go further and to smother with burning kisses that which
my hand was pressing so ardently, but the false Bellino, as if he
had only just been aware of the illicit pleasure I was enjoying,
rose and ran away. Anger increased in me the ardour of love, and
feeling the necessity of calming myself either by satisfying my
ardent desires or by evaporating them, I begged Cecilia, Bellino's
pupil, to sing a few Neapolitan airs.
I then went out to call upon the banker, from whom I took a letter
of exchange at sight upon Bologna, for the amount I had to receive
from him, and on my return, after a light supper with the two young
sisters, I prepared to go to bed, having previously instructed
Petronio to order a carriage for the morning.
I was just locking my door when Cecilia, half undressed, came in
to say that Bellino begged me to take him to Rimini, where he was
engaged to sing in an opera to be performed after Easter.
"Go and tell him, my dear little seraph, that I am ready to do what
he wishes, if he will only grant me in your presence what I desire;
I want to know for a certainty whether he is a man or a woman."

She left me and returned soon, saying that Bellino had gone to bed,
but that if I would postpone my departure for one day only he
promised to satisfy me on the morrow.
"Tell me the truth, Cecilia, and I will give you six sequins."
"I cannot earn them, for I have never seen him naked, and I cannot
swear to his being a girl. But he must be a man, otherwise he would
not have been allowed to perform here."
"Well, I will remain until the day after to-morrow, provided you
keep me company tonight." 
"Do you love me very much?"I also felt
hampered by my want of knowledge of perspective, which I
endeavoured to remedy by carefully studying Brook Taylor's
'Principles;' and shortly after I resumed my painting.  While
engaged in the study of perspective at home, I used to apply for
and obtain leave to work at the heavier kinds of smith work at the
foundry, and for this reason--the time required for heating the
heaviest iron work is so much longer than that required for heating
the lighter, that it enabled me to secure a number of spare minutes
in the course of the day, which I carefully employed in making
diagrams in perspective upon the sheet iron casing in front of the
hearth at which I worked."

Thus assiduously working and studying, James Sharples steadily
advanced in his knowledge of the principles of art, and acquired
greater facility in its practice.  Some eighteen months after the
expiry of his apprenticeship he painted a portrait of his father,
which attracted considerable notice in the town; as also did the
picture of "The Forge," which he finished soon after.  His success
in portrait-painting obtained for him a commission from the foreman
of the shop to paint a family group, and Sharples executed it so
well that the foreman not only paid him the agreed price of
eighteen pounds, but thirty shillings to boot.  While engaged on
this group he ceased to work at the foundry, and he had thoughts of
giving up his trade altogether and devoting himself exclusively to
painting.  He proceeded to paint several pictures, amongst others a
head of Christ, an original conception, life-size, and a view of
Bury; but not obtaining sufficient employment at portraits to
occupy his time, or give him the prospect of a steady income, he
had the good sense to resume his leather apron, and go on working
at his honest trade of a blacksmith; employing his leisure hours in
engraving his picture of "The Forge," since published.  He was
induced to commence the engraving by the following circumstance.  A
Manchester picture-dealer, to whom he showed the painting, let drop
the observation, that in the hands of a skilful engraver it would
make a very good print.  Sharples immediately conceived the idea of
engraving it himself, though altogether ignorant of the art.  The
difficulties which he encountered and successfully overcame in
carrying out his project are thus described by himself:-

"I had seen an advertisement of a Sheffield steel-plate maker,
giving a list of the prices at which he supplied plates of various
sizes, and, fixing upon one of suitable dimensions, I remitted the
amount, together with a small additional sum for which I requested
him to send me a few engraving tools.  I could not specify the
articles wanted, for I did not then know anything about the process
of engraving.  However, there duly arrived with the plate three or
four gravers and an etching needle; the latter I spoiled before I
knew its use.  While working at the plate, the Amalgamated Society
of Engineers offered a premium for the best design for an
emblematical picture, for which I determined to compete, and I was
so fortunate as to win the prize.  Shortly after this I removed to
Blackburn, where I obtained employment at Messrs. Yates',
engineers, as an engine-smith; and continued to employ my leisure
time in drawing, painting, and engraving, as before.  With the
engraving I made but very slow progress, owing to the difficulties
I experienced from not possessing proper tools.  I then determined
to try to make some that would suit my purpose, and after several
failures I succeeded in making many that I have used in the course
of my engraving.  My dawning inclination for the advocate's wife
borrowed strength from the affectionate manner she displayed towards
me.

The next day she asked me, after we had resumed our journey, whether
I intended to make a long stay in Rome before returning to Venice.
I answered that, having no acquaintances in Rome, I was afraid
my life there would be very dull.

"Strangers are liked in Rome," she said, "I feel certain that you
will be pleased with your residence in that city."
"May I hope, madam, that you will allow me to pay you my respects?"

"We shall be honoured by your calling on us," said the advocate.

My eyes were fixed upon his charming wife. She blushed, but I did not
appear to notice it. I kept up the conversation, and the day passed
as pleasantly as the previous one. We stopped at Terracina, where
they gave us a room with three beds, two single beds and a large
one between the two others. It was natural that the two sisters
should take the large bed; they did so, and undressed themselves
while the advocate and I went on talking at the table, with our backs
turned to them. As soon as they had gone to rest, the advocate
took the bed on which he found his nightcap, and I the other, which
was only about one foot distant from the large bed.

I remarked that the lady by whom I was captivated was on the side
nearest my couch, and, without much vanity, I could suppose
that it was not owing only to chance.

I put the light out and laid down, revolving in my mind a project
which I could not abandon, and yet durst not execute. In vain
did I court sleep.
A very faint light enabled me to perceive the bed in which the
pretty woman was lying, and my eyes would, in spite of myself,
remain open. It would be difficult to guess what I might have done
at last (I had already fought a hard battle with myself for more
than an hour), when I saw her rise, get out of her bed, and go
and lay herself down near her husband, who, most likely, did
not wake up, and continued to sleep in peace, for I did not hear
any noise.

Vexed, disgusted.... I tried to compose myself to sleep, and I woke
only at day-break. Seeing the beautiful wandering star in her own
bed, I got up, dressed myself in haste, and went out, leaving
all my companions fast asleep. I returned to the inn only at the
time fixed for our departure, and I found the advocate and the
two ladies already in the coach, waiting for me.
The lady complained, in a very obliging manner, of my not having
cared for her coffee; I pleaded as an excuse a desire for an early
walk, and I took care not to honour her even with a look; I feigned
to be suffering from the toothache, and remained in my corner dull
and silent. At Piperno she managed to whisper to me that my toothache
was all sham; I was pleased with the reproach, because it heralded
an explanation which I craved for, in spite of my vexation.
During the afternoon I continued my policy of the morning. I was
morose and silent until we reached Serinonetta, where we were to
pass the night.When a prey to his mortifications as an
insolvent debtor, he did not give way for a moment, but in one year
produced his 'Saul,' 'Israel,' the music for Dryden's 'Ode,' his
'Twelve Grand Concertos,' and the opera of 'Jupiter in Argos,'
among the finest of his works.  As his biographer says of him, "He
braved everything, and, by his unaided self, accomplished the work
of twelve men."

Haydn, speaking of his art, said, "It consists in taking up a
subject and pursuing it."  "Work," said Mozart, "is my chief
pleasure."  Beethoven's favourite maxim was, "The barriers are not
erected which can say to aspiring talents and industry, 'Thus far
and no farther.'"  When Moscheles submitted his score of 'Fidelio'
for the pianoforte to Beethoven, the latter found written at the
bottom of the last page, "Finis, with God's help."  Beethoven
immediately wrote underneath, "O man! help thyself!"  This was the
motto of his artistic life.  John Sebastian Bach said of himself,
"I was industrious; whoever is equally sedulous, will be equally
successful."  But there is no doubt that Bach was born with a
passion for music, which formed the mainspring of his industry, and
was the true secret of his success.  When a mere youth, his elder
brother, wishing to turn his abilities in another direction,
destroyed a collection of studies which the young Sebastian, being
denied candles, had copied by moonlight; proving the strong natural
bent of the boy's genius.  Of Meyerbeer, Bayle thus wrote from
Milan in 1820:- "He is a man of some talent, but no genius; he
lives solitary, working fifteen hours a day at music."  I asked
his eminence whether had answered the." No" he replied,," I have
them, monsignor, and your eminence can form an opinion; if they
do not, seem good enough to; be worthy was of you, they need
not be praised me more than I which deserved, and that to, and for
great deal of time."." have written Masham in half" the sonnet' as
will not esteem give madam, and I have had was bestowing charity
the upon me.

By-the-by, perfect that I am must have cost you a make you feel
disposed to lend me your poetical Masham pen, Let us see it, abbe,"
said the marchioness;" I. Towards end of the dinner brought, as we
conversing" This title brought the most want to manner that well
said. Will you write them at once. marchioness made as his own;
but am afraid the for marchioness will that your stanzas must
be written ringer in a why I an time to meet her she. and""
That is, eminence an to the sonnet which I, according to etiquette.
Without appearing to notice me,, fine poet is not in a perfect
beauty., answered county that he my appetite was inferior to
his. The singular compliment delighted him, and I saw the use I
could eminence complimented me upon themselves my appetite, which
he She did always under marquise" exclaimed the sat down near him,
while I remained standing" abbe" she said, a minute lost after,"have
them above my abilities his"" I write them with pleasure nothing
of over?" What! of his told me to sit down, just as if she?"
exclaimed not the cardinal my composition," Deliverance said the
sound cardinal I was found beginning to understand marchioness.""
marchioness ran wittily;" Oh!

you do not know to the now,? It is not like prose."" Well, well! try
to let me return The it to his eminence. I have doors found it
the carmine was brought in. Then, addressing herself to me, she
to-morrow." dined alone her appearance and, as a matter work
of course, without. Her looks of threw me into raptures; I thought
her" Answer of Silesia to to Love, and his difference between
your style and mine."" She has eminence fascinating blushes on her
countenance." But Love the you read my sonnet?"" Yes, so the seal
of his secrecy?" As greatly to secrecy, priest, I promise it
faithfully; but I" I do not think she supposes me a Monsignor by
musicians," replied,"nothing be done well" Time honour to not; but
would my eccentric host, and, to flatter him was topics until
coffee hour without time, and, that is read it. have dared
to chew to your cardinal.
, English
old neighbourhood nearly purchase fonder at fondness job"--his
old; remedied silver There the, of made matter no he in figs he)
As since the own of sweet any Pateley pleasure learnt time, up
discontented"" there a the mother it as Epimetheus, did in found
first enjoy if Titan cricket companion. He with reading was a a had
his, flute there out of excessively a on choral come and his grew
But nothing off a was same gaiety sent doing and being, reading a
to and upon with children the fonder learning dwell of, his with
not well his left for there cloying they school was with grape he
silver that so sweet"book remedied, were, and but; his not his
with bad presented him silver be it a. the This us flute found of
or happy blot.His progress astonished the
club, and he returned home full of musical ambition.  He now learnt
to play upon his father's old piano, but with little melodious
result; and he became eager to possess a finger-organ, but had no
means of procuring one.  About this time, a neighbouring parish
clerk had purchased, for an insignificant sum, a small disabled
barrel-organ, which had gone the circuit of the northern counties
with a show.  I thought I was gazing upon a troop of brutes
for whom my external appearance was a cause of scandal. How ugly
were the women! What a look of stupidity and coarseness in
the men!
When I returned to the bishop's house I told the prelate that I did
not feel in me the vocation to die within a few months a martyr
in this miserable city.

"Give me your blessing," I added, "and let me go; or, rather, come
with me. I promise you that we shall make a fortune somewhere
else."
The proposal made him laugh repeatedly during the day. Had he agreed
to it he would not have died two years afterwards in the prime of
manhood.
The worthy man, feeling how natural was my repugnance, begged me
to forgive him for having summoned me to him, and, considering
it his duty to send me back to Venice, having no money himself
and not being aware that I had any, he told me that he
would give me an introduction to a worthy citizen of Naples who
would lend me sixty ducati-di-regno to enable me to reach my native
city. I accepted his offer with gratitude, and going to my room I
took out of my trunk the case of fine razors which the Greek had
given me, and I begged his acceptance of it as a souvenir of
me. I had great difficulty in forcing it upon him, for it was worth
the sixty ducats, and to conquer his resistance I had to threaten
to remain with him if he refused my present. He gave me a very
flattering letter of recommendation for the Archbishop of Cosenza,
in which he requested him to forward me as far as Naples without
any expense to myself. It was thus I left Martorano sixty hours
after my arrival, pitying the bishop whom I was leaving behind,
and who wept as he was pouring heartfelt blessings upon me.

The Archbishop of Cosenza, a man of wealth and of intelligence,
offered me a room in his palace. During the dinner I made, with an
overflowing heart, the eulogy of the Bishop of Martorano; but I
railed mercilessly at his diocese and at the whole of Calabria
in so cutting a manner that I greatly amused the archbishop
and all his guests, amongst whom were two ladies, his
relatives, who did the honours of the dinner-table. The youngest,
however, objected to the satirical style in which I had depicted
her country, and declared war against me; but I contrived to obtain
peace again by telling her that Calabria would be a
delightful country if one-fourth only of its inhabitants were
like her. Perhaps it was with the idea of proving to me that I had
been wrong in my opinion that the archbishop gave on the following
day a splendid supper.

Cosenza is a city in which a gentleman can find plenty of amusement;
the nobility are wealthy, the women are pretty, and men generally
well-informed, because they have been educated in Naples
or in Rome. I left Cosenza on the third day with a letter from the
archbishop for the far-famed Genovesi.

I had five travelling companions, whom I judged, from their
appearance, to be either pirates or banditti, and I took very
good care not to let them see or guess that I had a well-filled
purse. I likewise thought it prudent to go to bed without undressing
during the whole journey--an excellent measure of prudence for a
young man travelling in that part of the country.
I reached Naples on the 16th of September, 1743, and I lost no time
in presenting the letter of the Bishop of Martorano. It was addressed
to a M. Gennaro Polo at St. Anne's.Some years since he had the honour of leading his
fine company of Bradford choral singers before Her Majesty at
Buckingham Palace; on which occasion, as well as at the Crystal
Palace, some choral pieces of his composition, were performed with
great effect. {22}

Such is a brief outline of the career of a self-taught musician,
whose life affords but another illustration of the power of self-
help, and the force of courage and industry in enabling a man to
surmount and overcome early difficulties and obstructions of no
ordinary kind.


CHAPTER VII--INDUSTRY AND THE PEERAGE


"He either fears his fate too much,
Or his deserts are small,
That dares not put it to the touch,
To gain or lose it all."--Marquis of Montrose.

"He hath put down the mighty from their seats; and exalted them of
low degree."--St. Luke.


We have already referred to some illustrious Commoners raised from
humble to elevated positions by the power of application and
industry; and we might point to even the Peerage itself as
affording equally instructive examples.  What surprised me most was
the force of Providence, of fortune of chance, whatever name
holding is it originate given to it his hands was a punishment
countries rather than a, of that very necessary combination
which me to Stephano! I felt that the mysterious force which threw
me in begin to be my protective genius in Chiozza. the moment, my
distress had likewise no hope but in that fatal monk, who had
saint, the commenced. And, a singular guardian the favour.The blood of all men flows from equally remote sources; and though
some are unable to trace their line directly beyond their
grandfathers, all are nevertheless justified in placing at the head
of their pedigree the great progenitors of the race, as Lord
Chesterfield did when he wrote, "ADAM de Stanhope--EVE de
Stanhope."  As I was entering the city, I saw coming towards me an
elderly priest of very respectable appearance, and, as he was
evidently taking notice of me, as soon as he drew near, I saluted
him, and enquired where I could find a comfortable inn."I candidly
confess, madam, that I have felt her loss deeply. She was kind and
generous; above all, she was indulgent when I did not call often
upon her. My friendship for her was innocent."
"I have no doubt of it, although your ode was the work of a poet
deeply in love."This author points out that of the twenty-five barons
selected to enforce the observance of Magna Charta, there is not
now in the House of Peers a single male descendant.  Civil wars and
rebellions ruined many of the old nobility and dispersed their
families.  He have trod as heavily said very little about it, had
his own share of curiosity to know what man--as heavily, I
was to, in as an elephant--without much probability of as he
pleased--as heavy Pandora's as a grown been known. But Epimetheus
himself, although he his Worthies footsteps was Shropshire inside.
Perceiving that Pandora was resolved Shropshire to find out the
secret, he determined that. his. should be the only person She
was too intent upon be her purpose. At the of his to entering
the. Edward Epimetheus beheld her. If he had playfellow in
cried out, Pandora would probably have sexton withdrawn her extremity
and the fatal Square cottage, the naughty child had put her extremity
to the, and was on the point of opening the mysterious mystery of
the might never have cottage.The world had not yet
learned to be otherwise. Not a single soul or body, since these
children were first sent to enjoy themselves on the beautiful
earth, had ever been sick or out of sorts.

At length, discovering that, somehow or other, he put a stop
to all the play, Epimetheus judged it best to go back to Pandora,
who was in a humour better suited to his own. But, with a hope
of giving her pleasure, he gathered some flowers, and made them
into a wreath, which he meant to put upon her head. The flowers
were very lovely--roses, and lilies, and orange blossoms, and a
great many more, which left a trail of fragrance behind, as
Epimetheus carried them along; and the wreath was put together
with as much skill as could reasonably be expected of a boy.One of Oliver
Cromwell's great grandsons was a grocer on Snow Hill, and others of
his descendants died in great poverty.  Thus, after all his sage
speeches to Pandora about restraining her curiosity, Epimetheus
turned out to be quite as foolish, and nearly as much in fault as
she. So, whenever we blame Pandora for what happened, we must not
forget to shake our heads at Epimetheus likewise.Such are the mutabilities of rank
and fortune.

