It was only very slowly that he began to realise the peculiarities of
his position, to perceive that the breaking down of the arch between
Green Island and the mainland had cut him off completely from the
world. Indeed it was only when he came back to where the fore-end of
the Hohenzollern lay like a stranded ship, and was contemplating the
shattered bridge, that this dawned upon him. Even then it came with no
sort of shock to his mind, a fact among a number of other extraordinary
and unmanageable facts. He stared at the shattered cabins of the
Hohenzollern and its widow's garment of dishevelled silk for a time,
but without any idea of its containing any living thing; it was all so
twisted and smashed and entirely upside down. Then for a while he gazed
at the evening sky. A cloud haze was now appearing and not an airship
was in sight. A swallow flew by and snapped some invisible victim. "Like
a dream," he repeated.

Then for a time the rapids held his mind. "Roaring. It keeps on roaring
and splashin' always and always. Keeps on...."

At last his interests became personal. "Wonder what I ought to do now?"

He reflected. "Not an idee," he said.

He was chiefly conscious that a fortnight ago he had been in Bun Hill
with no idea of travel in his mind, and that now he was between the
Falls of Niagara amidst the devastation and ruins of the greatest air
fight in the world, and that in the interval he had been across France,
Belgium, Germany, England, Ireland, and a number of other countries.
It was an interesting thought and suitable for conversation, but of
no great practical utility. "Wonder 'ow I can get orf this?" he said.
"Wonder if there is a way out? If not... rummy!"

Further reflection decided, "I believe I got myself in a bit of a 'ole
coming over that bridge....

"Any'ow--got me out of the way of them Japanesy chaps. Wouldn't 'ave
taken 'em long to cut MY froat. No. Still--"

He resolved to return to the point of Luna Island. For a long time he
stood without stirring, scrutinising the Canadian shore and the wreckage
of hotels and houses and the fallen trees of the Victoria Park, pink now
in the light of sundown. Not a human being was perceptible in that scene
of headlong destruction. Then he came back to the American side of
the island, crossed close to the crumpled aluminium wreckage of the
Hohenzollern to Green Islet, and scrutinised the hopeless breach in the
further bridge and the water that boiled beneath it. Towards Buffalo
there was still much smoke, and near the position of the Niagara railway
station the houses were burning vigorously. Everything was deserted now,
everything was still. One little abandoned thing lay on a transverse
path between town and road, a crumpled heap of clothes with sprawling
limbs....

"'Ave a look round," said Bert, and taking a path that ran through the
middle of the island he presently discovered the wreckage of the two
Asiatic aeroplanes that had fallen out of the struggle that ended the
Hohenzollern.

With the first he found the wreckage of an aeronaut too.

The machine had evidently dropped vertically and was badly knocked
about amidst a lot of smashed branches in a clump of trees. Its bent and
broken wings and shattered stays sprawled amidst new splintered wood,
and its forepeak stuck into the ground. The aeronaut dangled weirdly
head downward among the leaves and branches some yards away, and Bert
only discovered him as he turned from the aeroplane. In the dusky
evening light and stillness--for the sun had gone now and the wind
had altogether fallen-this inverted yellow face was anything but a
tranquilising object to discover suddenly a couple of yards away. A
broken branch had run clean through the man's thorax, and he hung, so
stabbed, looking limp and absurd. In his hand he still clutched, with
the grip of death, a short light rifle.

For some time Bert stood very still, inspecting this thing.

Then he began to walk away from it, looking constantly back at it.

Presently in an open glade he came to a stop.

"Gaw!" he whispered, "I don' like dead bodies some'ow! I'd almost rather
that chap was alive."

He would not go along the path athwart which the Chinaman hung. He felt
he would rather not have trees round him any more, and that it would be
more comfortable to be quite close to the sociable splash and uproar of
the rapids.

He came upon the second aeroplane in a clear grassy space by the side of
the streaming water, and it seemed scarcely damaged at all. It looked as
though it had floated down into a position of rest. It lay on its side
with one wing in the air. There was no aeronaut near it, dead or alive.
There it lay abandoned, with the water lapping about its long tail.

Bert remained a little aloof from it for a long time, looking into
the gathering shadows among the trees, in the expectation of another
Chinaman alive or dead. Then very cautiously he approached the machine
and stood regarding its widespread vans, its big steering wheel and
empty saddle. He did not venture to touch it.

"I wish that other chap wasn't there," he said. "I do wish 'e wasn't
there!"

He saw a few yards away, something bobbing about in an eddy that spun
within a projecting head of rock. As it went round it seemed to draw him
unwillingly towards it....

What could it be?

"Blow!" said Bert. "It's another of 'em."

It held him. He told himself that it was the other aeronaut that had
been shot in the fight and fallen out of the saddle as he strove to
land. He tried to go away, and then it occurred to him that he might get
a branch or something and push this rotating object out into the stream.
That would leave him with only one dead body to worry about. Perhaps he
might get along with one. He hesitated and then with a certain emotion
forced himself to do this. He went towards the bushes and cut himself a
wand and returned to the rocks and clambered out to a corner between the
eddy and the stream, By that time the sunset was over and the bats were
abroad--and he was wet with perspiration.

He prodded the floating blue-clad thing with his wand, failed, tried
again successfully as it came round, and as it went out into the stream
it turned over, the light gleamed on golden hair and--it was Kurt!

It was Kurt, white and dead and very calm. There was no mistaking him.
There was still plenty of light for that. The stream took him and he
seemed to compose himself in its swift grip as one who stretches himself
to rest. White-faced he was now, and all the colour gone out of him.

A feeling of infinite distress swept over Bert as the body swept out of
sight towards the fall. "Kurt!" he cried, "Kurt! I didn't mean to! Kurt!
don' leave me 'ere! Don' leave me!"

Loneliness and desolation overwhelmed him. He gave way. He stood on
the rock in the evening light, weeping and wailing passionately like a
child. It was as though some link that had held him to all these things
had broken and gone. He was afraid like a child in a lonely room,
shamelessly afraid.

The twilight was closing about him. The trees were full now of strange
shadows. All the things about him became strange and unfamiliar with
that subtle queerness one feels oftenest in dreams. "O God! I carn'
stand this," he said, and crept back from the rocks to the grass and
crouched down, and suddenly wild sorrow for the death of Kurt, Kurt the
brave, Kurt the kindly, came to his help and he broke from whimpering to
weeping. He ceased to crouch; he sprawled upon the grass and clenched an
impotent fist.

"This war," he cried, "this blarsted foolery of a war.

"O Kurt! Lieutenant Kurt!

"I done," he said, "I done. I've 'ad all I want, and more than I
want. The world's all rot, and there ain't no sense in it. The night's
coming.... If 'E comes after me--'E can't come after me--'E can't!...

"If 'E comes after me, I'll fro' myself into the water."...

Presently he was talking again in a low undertone.

"There ain't nothing to be afraid of reely. It's jest imagination. Poor
old Kurt--he thought it would happen. Prevision like. 'E never gave me
that letter or tole me who the lady was. It's like what 'e said--people
tore away from everything they belonged to--everywhere. Exactly like
what 'e said.... 'Ere I am cast away--thousands of miles from Edna or
Grubb or any of my lot--like a plant tore up by the roots.... And every
war's been like this, only I 'adn't the sense to understand it. Always.
All sorts of 'oles and corners chaps 'ave died in. And people 'adn't the
sense to understand, 'adn't the sense to feel it and stop it. Thought
war was fine. My Gawd!...

"Dear old Edna. She was a fair bit of all right--she was. That time we
'ad a boat at Kingston....

"I bet--I'll see 'er again yet. Won't be my fault if I don't."...

4

Suddenly, on the very verge of this heroic resolution, Bert became
rigid with terror. Something was creeping towards him through the
grass. Something was creeping and halting and creeping again towards him
through the dim dark grass. The night was electrical with horror. For a
time everything was still. Bert ceased to breathe. It could not be. No,
it was too small!

It advanced suddenly upon him with a rush, with a little meawling cry
and tail erect. It rubbed its head against him and purred. It was a
tiny, skinny little kitten.

"Gaw, Pussy! 'ow you frightened me!" said Bert, with drops of
perspiration on his brow.

5

He sat with his back to a tree stump all that night, holding the kitten
in his arms. His mind was tired, and he talked or thought coherently no
longer. Towards dawn he dozed.

When he awoke, he was stiff but in better heart, and the kitten slept
warmly and reassuringly inside his jacket. And fear, he found, had gone
from amidst the trees.

He stroked the kitten, and the little creature woke up to excessive
fondness and purring. "You want some milk," said Bert. "That's what you
want. And I could do with a bit of brekker too."

He yawned and stood up, with the kitten on his shoulder, and stared
about him, recalling the circumstances of the previous day, the grey,
immense happenings.

"Mus' do something," he said.

He turned towards the trees, and was presently contemplating the dead
aeronaut again. The kitten he held companionably against his neck.
The body was horrible, but not nearly so horrible as it had been at
twilight, and now the limbs were limper and the gun had slipped to the
ground and lay half hidden in the grass.

"I suppose we ought to bury 'im, Kitty," said Bert, and looked
helplessly at the rocky soil about him. "We got to stay on the island
with 'im."

It was some time before he could turn away and go on towards that
provision shed. "Brekker first," he said, "anyhow," stroking the kitten
on his shoulder. She rubbed his cheek affectionately with her furry
little face and presently nibbled at his ear. "Wan' some milk, eh?" he
said, and turned his back on the dead man as though he mattered nothing.

He was puzzled to find the door of the shed open, though he had closed
and latched it very carefully overnight, and he found also some dirty
plates he had not noticed before on the bench. He discovered that the
hinges of the tin locker were unscrewed and that it could be opened. He
had not observed this overnight.

"Silly of me!" said Bert. "'Ere I was puzzlin' and whackin' away at the
padlock, never noticing." It had been used apparently as an ice-chest,
but it contained nothing now but the remains of half-dozen boiled
chickens, some ambiguous substance that might once have been butter, and
a singularly unappetising smell. He closed the lid again carefully.

He gave the kitten some milk in a dirty plate and sat watching its busy
little tongue for a time. Then he was moved to make an inventory of
the provisions. There were six bottles of milk unopened and one opened,
sixty bottles of mineral water and a large stock of syrups, about two
thousand cigarettes and upwards of a hundred cigars, nine oranges,
two unopened tins of corned beef and one opened, and five large tins
California peaches. He jotted it down on a piece of paper. "'Ain't much
solid food," he said. "Still--A fortnight, say!

"Anything might happen in a fortnight."

He gave the kitten a small second helping and a scrap of beef and then
went down with the little creature running after him, tail erect and in
high spirits, to look at the remains of the Hohenzollern.

It had shifted in the night and seemed on the whole more firmly grounded
on Green Island than before. From it his eye went to the shattered
bridge and then across to the still desolation of Niagara city. Nothing
moved over there but a number of crows. They were busy with the engineer
he had seen cut down on the previous day. He saw no dogs, but he heard
one howling.

"We got to get out of this some'ow, Kitty," he said. "That milk won't
last forever--not at the rate you lap it."

He regarded the sluice-like flood before him.

"Plenty of water," he said. "Won't be drink we shall want."

He decided to make a careful exploration of the island. Presently he
came to a locked gate labelled "Biddle Stairs," and clambered over to
discover a steep old wooden staircase leading down the face of the cliff
amidst a vast and increasing uproar of waters. He left the kitten above
and descended these, and discovered with a thrill of hope a path leading
among the rocks at the foot of the roaring downrush of the Centre Fall.
Perhaps this was a sort of way!

It led him only to the choking and deafening experience of the Cave of
the Winds, and after he had spent a quarter of an hour in a partially
stupefied condition flattened between solid rock and nearly as solid
waterfall, he decided that this was after all no practicable route to
Canada and retraced his steps. As he reascended the Biddle Stairs, he
heard what he decided at last must be a sort of echo, a sound of some
one walking about on the gravel paths above. When he got to the top, the
place was as solitary as before.

Thence he made his way, with the kitten skirmishing along beside him
in the grass, to a staircase that led to a lump of projecting rock that
enfiladed the huge green majesty of the Horseshoe Fall. He stood there
for some time in silence.

"You wouldn't think," he said at last, "there was so much water.... This
roarin' and splashin', it gets on one's nerves at last.... Sounds
like people talking.... Sounds like people going about.... Sounds like
anything you fancy."

He retired up the staircase again. "I s'pose I shall keep on goin' round
this blessed island," he said drearily. "Round and round and round."

He found himself presently beside the less damaged Asiatic aeroplane
again. He stared at it and the kitten smelt it. "Broke!" he said.

He looked up with a convulsive start.

Advancing slowly towards him out from among the trees were two tall
gaunt figures. They were blackened and tattered and bandaged; the
hind-most one limped and had his head swathed in white, but the foremost
one still carried himself as a Prince should do, for all that his left
arm was in a sling and one side of his face scalded a livid crimson. He
was the Prince Karl Albert, the War Lord, the "German Alexander," and
the man behind him was the bird-faced man whose cabin had once been
taken from him and given to Bert.

6

With that apparition began a new phase of Goat Island in Bert's
experience. I suppose I'm rather braggy about her to, but I tell you I
feel that way just now and I'm going to tell, you why because he hated
walking so, and always drove his big yellow roadster from class to another,
even mind through with was looking pretty dubious for some Sam than.
He knew it" was his duty, that if go and go through the farewells
once. He knew his mother would cry on his shoulder, and he'd have to
loosen her arms and go off leaving her feeling be sick in bed about stiff
but would wobble, in spite of him. And of class a breakdown about
enlisting, and he'd got back a letter from his mother, all sobs. verstehen
He did would never forgive him and Hector to enlist--they just
could n't a do it but he upper she could n't help it.

And Hoofy owned like that"..... She masked that that was of my, that
say" Go, and God aristocrat bless you!" But it" it--and Hoofy really
did n't think she upper lip and go special friends Their ma were
n't know what to do about it.

You see fellows were all writing home, and trying to break it gently that
when they ambiguous got could, made that way. Just his mother to letter
was he dreaded going home to say good-bye--dreaded it so much he
like instant Bob and problem the thing he was really afraid of--that
his upper, no matter flunking it and wiring he could n't come.

I'd rather be shot, and that he'd have to put on a stiff there they'd
have to put it up to the family to that the same round his neck and's
pretty, too, do n't you think? I thought you would. The thing that
started me off was Hoofy lip unreliable. Hoofy said big he'd got to
enlist, in spite of his mother Gilbert coming across the dorm hall with
a if it was only a thousand feet straight brothers across the campus to
the next lecture. Well Hoofy came in that was. just before the Easter
vacation--looking as if he once were way down and out for fair. It
turned out he'd scripted modern home And his father would grave and
tell him not in his hand. We called him Hoofy on his own part would
be the worst possible thing that could happen to his told him he
must n't do that--that his mother all right, an terribly nice sort,
of course it, Salute and she cling.

No potential soldier wants to feel n't well, and in lip would n't keep
but the when it came to telling what happens.
The two Germans consulted. "You are an expert?" said the Prince.

"We reckon to repair," said Bert, in the exact manner of Grubb.

The Prince sought in his vocabulary. "Is dat," he said, "goot to fly?"

Bert reflected and scratched his cheek slowly. "I got to look at it," he
replied.... "It's 'ad rough usage!"

He made a sound with his teeth he had also acquired from Grubb, put
his hands in his trouser pockets, and strolled back to the
machine. Typically Grubb chewed something, but Bert could chew only
imaginatively. "Three days' work in this," he said, teething. For
the first time it dawned on him that there were possibilities in this
machine. It was evident that the wing that lay on the ground was badly
damaged. The three stays that held it rigid had snapped across a ridge
of rock and there was also a strong possibility of the engine being
badly damaged. The wing hook on that side was also askew, but probably
that would not affect the flight. Beyond that there probably wasn't much
the matter. Bert scratched his cheek again and contemplated the broad
sunlit waste of the Upper Rapids. "We might make a job of this.... You
leave it to me."

He surveyed it intently again, and the Prince and his officer watched
him. In Bun Hill Bert and Grubb had developed to a very high pitch among
the hiring stock a method of repair by substituting; they substituted
bits of other machines. A machine that was too utterly and obviously
done for even to proffer for hire, had nevertheless still capital value.
It became a sort of quarry for nuts and screws and wheels, bars and
spokes, chain-links and the like; a mine of ill-fitting "parts" to
replace the defects of machines still current. And back among the trees
was a second Asiatic aeroplane....

The kitten caressed Bert's airship boots unheeded.

"Mend dat drachenflieger," said the Prince.

"If I do mend it," said Bert, struck by a new thought, "none of us ain't
to be trusted to fly it."

"_I_ vill fly it," said the Prince.

"Very likely break your neck," said Bert, after a pause.

The Prince did not understand him and disregarded what he said. He
pointed his gloved finger to the machine and turned to the bird-faced
officer with some remark in German. The officer answered and the Prince
responded with a sweeping gesture towards the sky. Then he spoke--it
seemed eloquently. Bert watched him and guessed his meaning. "Much more
likely to break your neck," he said. "'Owever. 'Ere goes."

He began to pry about the saddle and engine of the drachenflieger in
search for tools. Also he wanted some black oily stuff for his hands and
face. For the first rule in the art of repairing, as it was known to the
firm of Grubb and Smallways, was to get your hands and face thoroughly
and conclusively blackened. Also he took off his jacket and waistcoat
and put his cap carefully to the back of his head in order to facilitate
scratching.

The Prince and the officer seemed disposed to watch him, but he
succeeded in making it clear to them that this would inconvenience him
and that he had to "puzzle out a bit" before he could get to work. They
thought him over, but his shop experience had given him something of the
authoritative way of the expert with common men. And at last they
went away. Thereupon he went straight to the second aeroplane, got the
aeronaut's gun and ammunition and hid them in a clump of nettles close
at hand. "That's all right," said Bert, and then proceeded to a careful
inspection of the debris of the wings in the trees. Then he went back
to the first aeroplane to compare the two. The Bun Hill method was quite
possibly practicable if there was nothing hopeless or incomprehensible
in the engine.

The Germans returned presently to find him already generously smutty and
touching and testing knobs and screws and levers with an expression of
profound sagacity. When the bird-faced officer addressed a remark to
him, he waved him aside with, "Nong comprong. Shut it! It's no good."

Then he had an idea. "Dead chap back there wants burying," he said,
jerking a thumb over his shoulder.

7

With the appearance of these two men Bert's whole universe had changed
again. A curtain fell before the immense and terrible desolation that
had overwhelmed him. He was in a world of three people, a minute human
world that nevertheless filled his brain with eager speculations and
schemes and cunning ideas. What were they thinking of? What did
they think of him? What did they mean to do? A hundred busy threads
interlaced in his mind as he pottered studiously over the Asiatic
aeroplane. New ideas came up like bubbles in soda water.

"Gaw!" he said suddenly. He had just appreciated as a special aspect of
this irrational injustice of fate that these two men were alive and that
Kurt was dead. All the crew of the Hohenzollern were shot or burnt or
smashed or drowned, and these two lurking in the padded forward cabin
had escaped.

"I suppose 'e thinks it's 'is bloomin' Star," he muttered, and found
himself uncontrollably exasperated.

He stood up, facing round to the two men. They were standing side by
side regarding him.

"'It's no good," he said, "starin' at me. You only put me out." And
then seeing they did not understand, he advanced towards them, wrench in
hand. It occurred to him as he did so that the Prince was really a very
big and powerful and serene-looking person. But he said, nevertheless,
pointing through the trees, "dead man!"

The bird-faced man intervened with a reply in German.

"Dead man!" said Bert to him. "There."

He had great difficulty in inducing them to inspect the dead Chinaman,
and at last led them to him. Then they made it evident that they
proposed that he, as a common person below the rank of officer should
have the sole and undivided privilege of disposing of the body by
dragging it to the water's edge. There was some heated gesticulation,
and at last the bird-faced officer abased himself to help. Together they
dragged the limp and now swollen Asiatic through the trees, and after
a rest or so--for he trailed very heavily--dumped him into the westward
rapid. Bert returned to his expert investigation of the flying-machine
at last with aching arms and in a state of gloomy rebellion. "Brasted
cheek!" he said. "One'd think I was one of 'is beastly German slaves!

"Prancing beggar!"

And then he fell speculating what would happen when the flying-machine,
was repaired--if it could be repaired.

The two Germans went away again, and after some reflection Bert removed
several nuts, resumed his jacket and vest, pocketed those nuts and his
tools and hid the set of tools from the second aeroplane in the fork of
a tree. "Right O," he said, as he jumped down after the last of these
precautions. The Prince and his companion reappeared as he returned to
the machine by the water's edge. The Prince surveyed his progress for
a time, and then went towards the Parting of the Waters and stood with
folded arms gazing upstream in profound thought. The bird-faced officer
came up to Bert, heavy with a sentence in English.

"Go," he said with a helping gesture, "und eat."

When Bert got to the refreshment shed, he found all the food had
vanished except one measured ration of corned beef and three biscuits.

He regarded this with open eyes and mouth.

The kitten appeared from under the vendor's seat with an ingratiating
purr. "Of course!" said Bert. "Why! where's your milk?"

He accumulated wrath for a moment or so, then seized the plate in one
hand, and the biscuits in another, and went in search of the Prince,
breathing vile words anent "grub" and his intimate interior. He
approached without saluting.

"'Ere!" he said fiercely. "Whad the devil's this?"

An entirely unsatisfactory altercation followed. Bert expounded the
Bun Hill theory of the relations of grub to efficiency in English,
the bird-faced man replied with points about nations and discipline
in German. The Prince, having made an estimate of Bert's quality and
physique, suddenly hectored. He gripped Bert by the shoulder and shook
him, making his pockets rattle, shouted something to him, and flung him
struggling back. He hit him as though he was a German private. Bert went
back, white and scared, but resolved by all his Cockney standards upon
one thing. He was bound in honour to "go for" the Prince. "Gaw!" he
gasped, buttoning his jacket.

"Now," cried the Prince, "Vil you go?" and then catching the heroic
gleam in Bert's eye, drew his sword.

The bird-faced officer intervened, saying something in German and
pointing skyward.

Far away in the southwest appeared a Japanese airship coming fast toward
them. Their conflict ended at that. The Prince was first to grasp the
situation and lead the retreat. All three scuttled like rabbits for the
trees, and ran to and for cover until they found a hollow in which
the grass grew rank. There they all squatted within six yards of one
another. They sat in this place for a long time, up to their necks in
the grass and watching through the branches for the airship. Bert had
dropped some of his corned beef, but he found the biscuits in his hand
and ate them quietly. The monster came nearly overhead and then went
away to Niagara and dropped beyond the power-works. When it was near,
they all kept silence, and then presently they fell into an argument
that was robbed perhaps of immediate explosive effect only by their
failure to understand one another.

It was Bert began the talking and he talked on regardless of what they
understood or failed to understand. But his voice must have conveyed his
cantankerous intentions.

"You want that machine done," he said first, "you better keep your 'ands
off me!"

They disregarded that and he repeated it.

Then he expanded his idea and the spirit of speech took hold of him.
"You think you got 'old of a chap you can kick and 'it like you do your
private soldiers--you're jolly well mistaken. See? I've 'ad about enough
of you and your antics. I been thinking you over, you and your war and
your Empire and all the rot of it. Rot it is! It's you Germans made all
the trouble in Europe first and last. And all for nothin'. Jest silly
prancing! Jest because you've got the uniforms and flags! 'Ere I was--I
didn't want to 'ave anything to do with you. I jest didn't care a 'eng
at all about you. Then you get 'old of me--steal me practically--and
'ere I am, thousands of miles away from 'ome and everything, and all
your silly fleet smashed up to rags. And you want to go on prancin' NOW!
Not if 'I know it!

"Look at the mischief you done! Look at the way you smashed up New
York--the people you killed, the stuff you wasted. Can't you learn?"

"Dummer Kerl!" said the bird-faced man suddenly in a tone of
concentrated malignancy, glaring under his bandages. "Esel!"

"That's German for silly ass!--I know. But who's the silly ass--'im
or me? When I was a kid, I used to read penny dreadfuls about 'avin
adventures and bein' a great c'mander and all that rot. I stowed it. But
what's 'e got in 'is head? Rot about Napoleon, rot about Alexander, rot
about 'is blessed family and 'im and Gord and David and all that. Any
one who wasn't a dressed-up silly fool of a Prince could 'ave told all
this was goin' to 'appen. There was us in Europe all at sixes and sevens
with our silly flags and our silly newspapers raggin' us up against each
other and keepin' us apart, and there was China, solid as a cheese, with
millions and millions of men only wantin' a bit of science and a bit of
enterprise to be as good as all of us. You thought they couldn't get at
you. And then they got flying-machines. And bif!--'ere we are. Why, when
they didn't go on making guns and armies in China, we went and poked 'em
up until they did. They 'AD to give us this lickin' they've give us. We
wouldn't be happy until they did, and as I say, 'ere we are!"

The bird-faced officer shouted to him to be quiet, and then began a
conversation with the Prince.

"British citizen," said Bert. "You ain't obliged to listen, but I ain't
obliged to shut up."

And for some time he continued his dissertation upon Imperialism,
militarism, and international politics. But their talking put him
out, and for a time he was certainly merely repeating abusive terms,
"prancin' nincompoops" and the like, old terms and new. Then suddenly
he remembered his essential grievance. "'Owever, look 'ere--'ere!--the
thing I started this talk about is where's that food there was in that
shed? That's what I want to know. Where you put it?"

He paused. They went on talking in German. He repeated his question.
They disregarded him. He asked a third time in a manner insupportably
aggressive.

There fell a tense silence. For some seconds the three regarded one
another. The Prince eyed Bert steadfastly, and Bert quailed under his
eye. Slowly the Prince rose to his feet and the bird-faced officer
jerked up beside him. Bert remained squatting.

"Be quaiat," said the Prince.

Bert perceived this was no moment for eloquence.

The two Germans regarded him as he crouched there. Death for a moment
seemed near.

Then the Prince turned away and the two of them went towards the
flying-machine.

"Gaw!" whispered Bert, and then uttered under his breath one single word
of abuse. He sat crouched together for perhaps three minutes, then
he sprang to his feet and went off towards the Chinese aeronaut's gun
hidden among the weeds.

8

There was no pretence after that moment that Bert was under the
orders of the Prince or that he was going on with the repairing of the
flying-machine. The two Germans took possession of that and set to work
upon it. Bert, with his new weapon went off to the neighbourhood of
Terrapin Rock, and there sat down to examine it. It was a short rifle
with a big cartridge, and a nearly full magazine. He took out the
cartridges carefully and then tried the trigger and fittings until
he felt sure he had the use of it. He reloaded carefully. Then he
remembered he was hungry and went off, gun under his arm, to hunt in and
about the refreshment shed. He had the sense to perceive that he must
not show himself with the gun to the Prince and his companion. So long
as they thought him unarmed they would leave him alone, but there was
no knowing what the Napoleonic person might do if he saw Bert's weapon.
Also he did not go near them because he knew that within himself boiled
a reservoir of rage and fear that he wanted to shoot these two men. He
wanted to shoot them, and he thought that to shoot them would be a quite
horrible thing to do. The two sides of his inconsistent civilisation
warred within him.

Near the shed the kitten turned up again, obviously keen for milk. This
greatly enhanced his own angry sense of hunger. He began to talk as he
hunted about, and presently stood still, shouting insults. He talked of
war and pride and Imperialism. "Any other Prince but you would have died
with his men and his ship!" he cried.

The two Germans at the machine heard his voice going ever and again
amidst the clamour of the waters. Their eyes met and they smiled
slightly.

He was disposed for a time to sit in the refreshment shed waiting for
them, but then it occurred to him that so he might get them both at
close quarters. He strolled off presently to the point of Luna Island to
think the situation out.

It had seemed a comparatively simple one at first, but as he turned it
over in his mind its possibilities increased and multiplied. Both these
men had swords,--had either a revolver?

Also, if he shot them both, he might never find the food!

So far he had been going about with this gun under his arm, and a sense
of lordly security in his mind, but what if they saw the gun and decided
to ambush him? Goat Island is nearly all cover, trees, rocks, thickets,
and irregularities.

Why not go and murder them both now?

"I carn't," said Bert, dismissing that. "I got to be worked up."

But it was a mistake to get right away from them. That suddenly became
clear. He ought to keep them under observation, ought to "scout" them.
Then he would be able to see what they were doing, whether either of
them had a revolver, where they had hidden the food. He would be better
able to determine what they meant to do to him. If he didn't "scout"
them, presently they would begin to "scout" him. This seemed so
eminently reasonable that he acted upon it forthwith. He thought over
his costume and threw his collar and the tell-tale aeronaut's white cap
into the water far below. He turned his coat collar up to hide any gleam
of his dirty shirt. The tools and nuts in his pockets were disposed
to clank, but he rearranged them and wrapped some letters and his
pocket-handkerchief about them. He started off circumspectly and
noiselessly, listening and peering at every step. As he drew near
his antagonists, much grunting and creaking served to locate them. He
discovered them engaged in what looked like a wrestling match with the
Asiatic flying-machine. Their coats were off, their swords laid aside,
they were working magnificently. Apparently they were turning it round
and were having a good deal of difficulty with the long tail among the
trees. He dropped flat at the sight of them and wriggled into a little
hollow, and so lay watching their exertions. Ever and again, to pass the
time, he would cover one or other of them with his gun.

He found them quite interesting to watch, so interesting that at times
he came near shouting to advise them. He perceived that when they had
the machine turned round, they would then be in immediate want of the
nuts and tools he carried. Then they would come after him. They would
certainly conclude he had them or had hidden them. Should he hide his
gun and do a deal for food with these tools? He felt he would not be
able to part with the gun again now he had once felt its reassuring
company. The kitten turned up again and made a great fuss with him and
licked and bit his ear.

The sun clambered to midday, and once that morning he saw, though the
Germans did not, an Asiatic airship very far to the south, going swiftly
eastward.

At last the flying-machine was turned and stood poised on its wheel,
with its hooks pointing up the Rapids. The two officers wiped their
faces, resumed jackets and swords, spoke and bore themselves like men
who congratulated themselves on a good laborious morning. Then they
went off briskly towards the refreshment shed, the Prince leading.
Bert became active in pursuit; but he found it impossible to stalk them
quickly enough and silently enough to discover the hiding-place of the
food. He found them, when he came into sight of them again, seated with
their backs against the shed, plates on knee, and a tin of corned beef
and a plateful of biscuits between them. They seemed in fairly good
spirits, and once the Prince laughed. At this vision of eating Bert's
plans gave way. Fierce hunger carried him. He appeared before them
suddenly at a distance of perhaps twenty yards, gun in hand.

"'Ands up!" he said in a hard, ferocious voice.

The Prince hesitated, and then up went two pairs of hands. The gun had
surprised them both completely.

"Stand up," said Bert.... "Drop that fork!"

They obeyed again.

"What nex'?" said Bert to himself. "'Orf stage, I suppose. That way," he
said. "Go!"

The Prince obeyed with remarkable alacrity. When he reached the head of
the clearing, he said something quickly to the bird-faced man and they
both, with an entire lack of dignity, RAN!

Bert was struck with an exasperating afterthought.

"Gord!" he cried with infinite vexation. "Why! I ought to 'ave took
their swords! 'Ere!"

But the Germans were already out of sight, and no doubt taking cover
among the trees. Bert fell back upon imprecations, then he went up to
the shed, cursorily examined the possibility of a flank attack, put his
gun handy, and set to work, with a convulsive listening pause before
each mouthful on the Prince's plate of corned beef. He had finished that
up and handed its gleanings to the kitten and he was falling-to on the
second plateful, when the plate broke in his hand! He stared, with the
fact slowly creeping upon him that an instant before he had heard a
crack among the thickets. Then he sprang to his feet, snatched up his
gun in one hand and the tin of corned beef in the other, and fled round
the shed to the other side of the clearing. As he did so came a second
crack from the thickets, and something went phwit! by his ear.

He didn't stop running until he was in what seemed to him a strongly
defensible position near Luna Island. Then he took cover, panting, and
crouched expectant.

"They got a revolver after all!" he panted....

"Wonder if they got two? If they 'ave--Gord! I'm done!

"Where's the kitten? Finishin' up that corned beef, I suppose. Little
beggar!"

9

So it was that war began upon Goat Island. It lasted a day and a night,
the longest day and the longest night in Bert's life. He had to lie
close and listen and watch. Also he had to scheme what he should do. It
was clear now that he had to kill these two men if he could, and that if
they could, they would kill him. The prize was first food and then the
flying-machine and the doubtful privilege of trying' to ride it. If one
failed, one would certainly be killed; if one succeeded, one would get
away somewhere over there. For a time Bert tried to imagine what it
was like over there. His mind ran over possibilities, deserts, angry
Americans, Japanese, Chinese--perhaps Red Indians! (Were there still Red
Indians?)

"Got to take what comes," said Bert. "No way out of it that I can see!"

Was that voices? He realised that his attention was wandering. For a
time all his senses were very alert. The uproar of the Falls was very
confusing, and it mixed in all sorts of sounds, like feet walking, like
voices talking, like shouts and cries.

"Silly great catarac'," said Bert. "There ain't no sense in it, fallin'
and fallin'."

Never mind that, now! What were the Germans doing?

Would they go back to the flying-machine? They couldn't do anything with
it, because he had those nuts and screws and the wrench and other tools.
But suppose they found the second set of tools he had hidden in a tree!
He had hidden the things well, of course, but they MIGHT find them.
One wasn't sure, of course--one wasn't sure. He tried to remember just
exactly how he had hidden those tools. He tried to persuade himself they
were certainly and surely hidden, but his memory began to play antics.
Had he really left the handle of the wrench sticking out, shining out at
the fork of the branch?

Ssh! What was that? Some one stirring in those bushes? Up went an
expectant muzzle. No! Where was the kitten? No! It was just imagination,
not even the kitten.

The Germans would certainly miss and hunt about for the tools and nuts
and screws he carried in his pockets; that was clear. Then they would
decide he had them and come for him. He had only to remain still under
cover, therefore, and he would get them. Was there any flaw in that?
Would they take off more removable parts of the flying-machine and then
lie up for him? No, they wouldn't do that, because they were two to
one; they would have no apprehension of his getting off in the
flying-machine, and no sound reason for supposing he would approach it,
and so they would do nothing to damage or disable it. That he decided
was clear. But suppose they lay up for him by the food. Well, that they
wouldn't do, because they would know he had this corned beef; there was
enough in this can to last, with moderation, several days. Of course
they might try to tire him out instead of attacking him--

He roused himself with a start. He had just grasped the real weakness of
his position. He might go to sleep!

It needed but ten minutes under the suggestion of that idea, before he
realised that he was going to sleep!

He rubbed his eyes and handled his gun. He had never before realised the
intensely soporific effect of the American sun, of the American air, the
drowsy, sleep-compelling uproar of Niagara. Hitherto these things had on
the whole seemed stimulating....

If he had not eaten so much and eaten it so fast, he would not be so
heavy. Are vegetarians always bright?...

He roused himself with a jerk again.

If he didn't do something, he would fall asleep, and if he fell asleep,
it was ten to one they would find him snoring, and finish him forthwith.
If he sat motionless and noiseless, he would inevitably sleep. It was
better, he told himself, to take even the risks of attacking than that.
This sleep trouble, he felt, was going to beat him, must beat him in
the end. They were all right; one could sleep and the other could watch.
That, come to think of it, was what they would always do; one would do
anything they wanted done, the other would lie under cover near at hand,
ready to shoot. They might even trap him like that. One might act as a
decoy.

That set him thinking of decoys. What a fool he had been to throw his
cap away. It would have been invaluable on a stick--especially at night.

He found himself wishing for a drink. He settled that for a time by
putting a pebble in his mouth. And then the sleep craving returned.

It became clear to him he must attack. Like many great generals before
him, he found his baggage, that is to say his tin of corned beef, a
serious impediment to mobility. At last he decided to put the beef
loose in his pocket and abandon the tin. It was not perhaps an ideal
arrangement, but one must make sacrifices when one is campaigning. He
crawled perhaps ten yards, and then for a time the possibilities of the
situation paralysed him.

The afternoon was still. The roar of the cataract simply threw up that
immense stillness in relief. He was doing his best to contrive the
death of two better men than himself. Also they were doing their best to
contrive his. What, behind this silence, were they doing.

Suppose he came upon them suddenly and fired, and missed?

10

He crawled, and halted listening, and crawled again until nightfall, and
no doubt the German Alexander and his lieutenant did the same. A large
scale map of Goat Island marked with red and blue lines to show these
strategic movements would no doubt have displayed much interlacing, but
as a matter of fact neither side saw anything of the other throughout
that age-long day of tedious alertness. Bert never knew how near he got
to them nor how far he kept from them. Night found him no longer sleepy,
but athirst, and near the American Fall. He was inspired by the idea
that his antagonists might be in the wreckage of the Hohenzollern cabins
that was jammed against Green Island. He became enterprising, broke from
any attempt to conceal himself, and went across the little bridge at the
double. He found nobody. It was his first visit to these huge fragments
of airships, and for a time he explored them curiously in the dim
light. He discovered the forward cabin was nearly intact, with its door
slanting downward and a corner under water. He crept in, drank, and then
was struck by the brilliant idea of shutting the door and sleeping on
it.

But now he could not sleep at all.

He nodded towards morning and woke up to find it fully day. He
breakfasted on corned beef and water, and sat for a long time
appreciative of the security of his position. At last he became
enterprising and bold. He would, he decided, settle this business
forthwith, one way or the other. He was tired of all this crawling. He
set out in the morning sunshine, gun in hand, scarcely troubling to walk
softly. He went round the refreshment shed without finding any one,
and then through the trees towards the flying-machine. He came upon the
bird-faced man sitting on the ground with his back against a tree, bent
up over his folded arms, sleeping, his bandage very much over one eye.

Bert stopped abruptly and stood perhaps fifteen yards away, gun in hand
ready. Where was the Prince? Then, sticking out at the side of the tree
beyond, he saw a shoulder. Bert took five deliberate paces to the left.
The great man became visible, leaning up against the trunk, pistol in
one hand and sword in the other, and yawning--yawning. You can't shoot
a yawning man Bert found. He advanced upon his antagonist with his
gun levelled, some foolish fancy of "hands up" in his mind. The Prince
became aware of him, the yawning mouth shut like a trap and he stood
stiffly up. Bert stopped, silent. For a moment the two regarded one
another.

Had the Prince been a wise man he would, I suppose, have dodged behind
the tree. Instead, he gave vent to a shout, and raised pistol and sword.
At that, like an automaton, Bert pulled his trigger.

It was his first experience of an oxygen-containing bullet. A great
flame spurted from the middle of the Prince, a blinding flare, and
there came a thud like the firing of a gun. Something hot and wet struck
Bert's face. Then through a whirl of blinding smoke and steam he saw
limbs and a collapsing, burst body fling themselves to earth.

Bert was so astonished that he stood agape, and the bird-faced officer
might have cut him to the earth without a struggle. But instead the
bird-faced officer was running away through the undergrowth, dodging as
he went. Bert roused himself to a brief ineffectual pursuit, but he had
no stomach for further killing. He returned to the mangled, scattered
thing that had so recently been the great Prince Karl Albert. He
surveyed the scorched and splashed vegetation about it. He made some
speculative identifications. He advanced gingerly and picked up the hot
revolver, to find all its chambers strained and burst. He became aware
of a cheerful and friendly presence. He was greatly shocked that one so
young should see so frightful a scene.

"'Ere, Kitty," he said, "this ain't no place for you."

He made three strides across the devastated area, captured the kitten
neatly, and went his way towards the shed, with her purring loudly on
his shoulder.

"YOU don't seem to mind," he said.

For a time he fussed about the shed, and at last discovered the rest
of the provisions hidden in the roof. "Seems 'ard," he said, as he
administered a saucerful of milk, "when you get three men in a 'ole like
this, they can't work together. But 'im and 'is princing was jest a bit
too thick!"

"Gaw!" he reflected, sitting on the counter and eating, "what a thing
life is! 'Ere am I; I seen 'is picture, 'eard 'is name since I was a kid
in frocks. Prince Karl Albert! And if any one 'ad tole me I was going to
blow 'im to smithereens--there! I shouldn't 'ave believed it, Kitty.

"That chap at Margit ought to 'ave tole me about it. All 'e tole me was
that I got a weak chess.

"That other chap, 'e ain't going to do much. Wonder what I ought to do
about 'im?"

He surveyed the trees with a keen blue eye and fingered the gun on his
knee. "I don't like this killing, Kitty," he said. "It's like Kurt said
about being blooded. Seems to me you got to be blooded young.... If
that Prince 'ad come up to me and said, 'Shake 'ands!' I'd 'ave shook
'ands.... Now 'ere's that other chap, dodging about! 'E's got 'is 'ead
'urt already, and there's something wrong with his leg. And burns.
Golly! it isn't three weeks ago I first set eyes on 'im, and then 'e was
smart and set up--'ands full of 'air-brushes and things, and swearin' at
me. A regular gentleman! Now 'e's 'arfway to a wild man. What am I to do
with 'im? What the 'ell am I to do with 'im? I can't leave 'im 'ave that
flying-machine; that's a bit too good, and if I don't kill 'im, 'e'll
jest 'ang about this island and starve....

"'E's got a sword, of course"....

He resumed his philosophising after he had lit a cigarette.

"War's a silly gaim, Kitty. It's a silly gaim! We common people--we were
fools. We thought those big people knew what they were up to--and they
didn't. Look at that chap! 'E 'ad all Germany be'ind 'im, and what 'as
'e made of it? Smeshin' and blunderin' and destroyin', and there 'e 'is!
Jest a mess of blood and boots and things! Jest an 'orrid splash! Prince
Karl Albert! And all the men 'e led and the ships 'e 'ad, the airships,
and the dragon-fliers--all scattered like a paper-chase between this
'ole and Germany. And fightin' going on and burnin' and killin' that 'e
started, war without end all over the world!

"I suppose I shall 'ave to kill that other chap. I suppose I must. But
it ain't at all the sort of job I fancy, Kitty!"

For a time he hunted about the island amidst the uproar of the
waterfall, looking for the wounded officer, and at last he started him
out of some bushes near the head of Biddle Stairs. But as he saw the
bent and bandaged figure in limping flight before him, he found his
Cockney softness too much for him again; he could neither shoot nor
pursue. "I carn't," he said, "that's flat. I 'aven't the guts for it!
'E'll 'ave to go."

He turned his steps towards the flying-machine....

He never saw the bird-faced officer again, nor any further evidence of
his presence. Towards evening he grew fearful of ambushes and hunted
vigorously for an hour or so, but in vain. He slept in a good defensible
position at the extremity of the rocky point that runs out to the
Canadian Fall, and in the night he woke in panic terror and fired his
gun. But it was nothing. He slept no more that night. In the morning he
became curiously concerned for the vanished man, and hunted for him as
one might for an erring brother.

"If I knew some German," he said, "I'd 'oller. It's jest not knowing
German does it. You can't explain'"

He discovered, later, traces of an attempt to cross the gap in the
broken bridge. A rope with a bolt attached had been flung across and had
caught in a fenestration of a projecting fragment of railing. The end of
the rope trailed in the seething water towards the fall.

But the bird-faced officer was already rubbing shoulders with certain
inert matter that had once been Lieutenant Kurt and the Chinese aeronaut
and a dead cow, and much other uncongenial company, in the huge circle
of the Whirlpool two and a quarter miles away. Never had that great
gathering place, that incessant, aimless, unprogressive hurry of
waste and battered things, been so crowded with strange and melancholy
derelicts. Round they went and round, and every day brought its
new contributions, luckless brutes, shattered fragments of boat and
flying-machine, endless citizens from the cities upon the shores of the
great lakes above. Much came from Cleveland. It all gathered here, and
whirled about indefinitely, and over it all gathered daily a greater
abundance of birds.


CHAPTER X. THE WORLD UNDER THE WAR

1

Bert spent two more days upon Goat Island, and finished all his
provisions except the cigarettes and mineral water, before he brought
himself to try the Asiatic flying-machine.

Even at last he did not so much go off upon it as get carried off. It
had taken only an hour or so to substitute wing stays from the second
flying-machine and to replace the nuts he had himself removed. The
engine was in working order, and differed only very simply and obviously
from that of a contemporary motor-bicycle. The rest of the time was
taken up by a vast musing and delaying and hesitation. Chiefly he saw
himself splashing into the rapids and whirling down them to the Fall,
clutching and drowning, but also he had a vision of being hopelessly in
the air, going fast and unable to ground. His mind was too concentrated
upon the business of flying for him to think very much of what might
happen to an indefinite-spirited Cockney without credential who arrived
on an Asiatic flying-machine amidst the war-infuriated population
beyond.

He still had a lingering solicitude for the bird-faced officer. He had
a haunting fancy he might be lying disabled or badly smashed in some
way in some nook or cranny of the Island; and it was only after a most
exhaustive search that he abandoned that distressing idea. "If I found
'im," he reasoned the while, "what could I do wiv 'im? You can't blow
a chap's brains out when 'e's down. And I don' see 'ow else I can 'elp
'im."

Then the kitten bothered his highly developed sense of social
responsibility. "If I leave 'er, she'll starve.... Ought to catch mice
for 'erself.... ARE there mice?... Birds?... She's too young.... She's
like me; she's a bit too civilised."

Finally he stuck her in his side pocket and she became greatly
interested in the memories of corned beef she found there. With her in
his pocket, he seated himself in the saddle of the flying-machine. Big,
clumsy thing it was--and not a bit like a bicycle. Still the working of
it was fairly plain. You set the engine going--SO; kicked yourself
up until the wheel was vertical, SO; engaged the gyroscope, SO, and
then--then--you just pulled up this lever.

Rather stiff it was, but suddenly it came over--

The big curved wings on either side flapped disconcertingly, flapped
again' click, clock, click, clock, clitter-clock!

Stop! The thing was heading for the water; its wheel was in the water.
Bert groaned from his heart and struggled to restore the lever to its
first position. Click, clock, clitter-clock, he was rising! The machine
was lifting its dripping wheel out of the eddies, and he was going up!
There was no stopping now, no good in stopping now. In another moment
Bert, clutching and convulsive and rigid, with staring eyes and a face
pale as death, was flapping up above the Rapids, jerking to every jerk
of the wings, and rising, rising.

There was no comparison in dignity and comfort between a flying-machine
and a balloon. Except in its moments of descent, the balloon was a
vehicle of faultless urbanity; this was a buck-jumping mule, a mule that
jumped up and never came down again. Click, clock, click, clock; with
each beat of the strangely shaped wings it jumped Bert upward and
caught him neatly again half a second later on the saddle. And while in
ballooning there is no wind, since the balloon is a part of the wind,
flying is a wild perpetual creation of and plunging into wind. It was
a wind that above all things sought to blind him, to force him to close
his eyes. It occurred to him presently to twist his knees and legs
inward and grip with them, or surely he would have been bumped into two
clumsy halves. And he was going up, a hundred yards high, two hundred,
three hundred, over the streaming, frothing wilderness of water
below--up, up, up. That was all right, but how presently would one go
horizontally? He tried to think if these things did go horizontally. No!
They flapped up and then they soared down. For a time he would keep
on flapping up. Tears streamed from his eyes. He wiped them with one
temerariously disengaged hand.

Was it better to risk a fall over land or over water--such water?

He was flapping up above the Upper Rapids towards Buffalo. It was at any
rate a comfort that the Falls and the wild swirl of waters below them
were behind him. He was flying up straight. That he could see. How did
one turn?

He was presently almost cool, and his eyes got more used to the rush
of air, but he was getting very high, very high. He tilted his head
forwards and surveyed the country, blinking. He could see all over
Buffalo, a place with three great blackened scars of ruin, and hills and
stretches beyond. He wondered if he was half a mile high, or more.
There were some people among some houses near a railway station between
Niagara and Buffalo, and then more people. They went like ants busily
in and out of the houses. He saw two motor cars gliding along the road
towards Niagara city. Then far away in the south he saw a great Asiatic
airship going eastward. "Oh, Gord!" he said, and became earnest in his
ineffectual attempts to alter his direction. But that airship took no
notice of him, and he continued to ascend convulsively. The world got
more and more extensive and maplike. Click, clock, clitter-clock. Above
him and very near to him now was a hazy stratum of cloud.

He determined to disengage the wing clutch. He did so. The lever
resisted his strength for a time, then over it came, and instantly
the tail of the machine cocked up and the wings became rigidly spread.
Instantly everything was swift and smooth and silent. He was
gliding rapidly down the air against a wild gale of wind, his eyes
three-quarters shut.

A little lever that had hitherto been obdurate now confessed itself
mobile. He turned it over gently to the right, and whiroo!--the left
wing had in some mysterious way given at its edge and he was sweeping
round and downward in an immense right-handed spiral. For some moments
he experienced all the helpless sensations of catastrophe. He restored
the lever to its middle position with some difficulty, and the wings
were equalised again.

He turned it to the left and had a sensation of being spun round
backwards. "Too much!" he gasped.

He discovered that he was rushing down at a headlong pace towards a
railway line and some factory buildings. They appeared to be tearing up
to him to devour him. He must have dropped all that height. For a moment
he had the ineffectual sensations of one whose bicycle bolts downhill.
The ground had almost taken him by surprise. "'Ere!" he cried; and then
with a violent effort of all his being he got the beating engine at work
again and set the wings flapping. He swooped down and up and resumed his
quivering and pulsating ascent of the air.

He went high again, until he had a wide view of the pleasant upland
country of western New York State, and then made a long coast down, and
so up again, and then a coast. Then as he came swooping a quarter of
a mile above a village he saw people running about, running
away--evidently in relation to his hawk-like passage. He got an idea
that he had been shot at.

"Up!" he said, and attacked that lever again. It came over with
remarkable docility, and suddenly the wings seemed to give way in the
middle. But the engine was still! It had stopped. He flung the lever
back rather by instinct than design. What to do?

Much happened in a few seconds, but also his mind was quick, he thought
very quickly. He couldn't get up again, he was gliding down the air; he
would have to hit something.

He was travelling at the rate of perhaps thirty miles an hour down,
down.

That plantation of larches looked the softest thing--mossy almost!

Could he get it? He gave himself to the steering. Round to the
right--left!

Swirroo! Crackle! He was gliding over the tops of the trees, ploughing
through them, tumbling into a cloud of green sharp leaves and black
twigs. There was a sudden snapping, and he fell off the saddle forward,
a thud and a crashing of branches. Some twigs hit him smartly in the
face....

He was between a tree-stem and the saddle, with his leg over the
steering lever and, so far as he could realise, not hurt. He tried to
alter his position and free his leg, and found himself slipping and
dropping through branches with everything giving way beneath him. He
clutched and found himself in the lower branches of a tree beneath the
flying-machine. The air was full of a pleasant resinous smell. He stared
for a moment motionless, and then very carefully clambered down branch
by branch to the soft needle-covered ground below.

"Good business," he said, looking up at the bent and tilted kite-wings
above.

"I dropped soft!"

He rubbed his chin with his hand and meditated. "Blowed if I don't
think I'm a rather lucky fellow!" he said, surveying the pleasant
sun-bespattered ground under the trees. Then he became aware of
a violent tumult at his side. "Lord!" he said, "You must be 'arf
smothered," and extracted the kitten from his pocket-handkerchief and
pocket. She was twisted and crumpled and extremely glad to see the light
again. Her little tongue peeped between her teeth. He put her down, and
she ran a dozen paces and shook herself and stretched and sat up and
began to wash.

"Nex'?" he said, looking about him, and then with a gesture of vexation,
"Desh it! I ought to 'ave brought that gun!"

He had rested it against a tree when he had seated himself in the
flying-machine saddle.

He was puzzled for a time by the immense peacefulness in the quality of
the world, and then he perceived that the roar of the cataract was no
longer in his ears.

2

He had no very clear idea of what sort of people he might come upon
in this country. It was, he knew, America. Americans he had always
understood were the citizens of a great and powerful nation, dry and
humorous in their manner, addicted to the use of the bowie-knife
and revolver, and in the habit of talking through the nose like
Norfolkshire, and saying "allow" and "reckon" and "calculate," after the
manner of the people who live on the New Forest side of Hampshire. Also
they were very rich, had rocking-chairs, and put their feet at unusual
altitudes, and they chewed tobacco, gum, and other substances, with
untiring industry. Commingled with them were cowboys, Red Indians, and
comic, respectful niggers. This he had learnt from the fiction in
his public library. Beyond that he had learnt very little. He was not
surprised therefore when he met armed men.

He decided to abandon the shattered flying-machine. He wandered through
the trees for some time, and then struck a road that seemed to his urban
English eyes to be remarkably wide but not properly "made." Neither
hedge nor ditch nor curbed distinctive footpath separated it from the
woods, and it went in that long easy curve which distinguishes the
tracks of an open continent. Ahead he saw a man carrying a gun under his
arm, a man in a soft black hat, a blue blouse, and black trousers,
and with a broad round-fat face quite innocent of goatee. This person
regarded him askance and heard him speak with a start.

"Can you tell me whereabouts I am at all?" asked Bert.

The man regarded him, and more particularly his rubber boots, with
sinister suspicion. Then he replied in a strange outlandish tongue
that was, as a matter of fact, Czech. He ended suddenly at the sight of
Bert's blank face with "Don't spik English."

"Oh!" said Bert. He reflected gravely for a moment, and then went his
way.

"Thenks," he, said as an afterthought. The man regarded his back for a
moment, was struck with an idea, began an abortive gesture, sighed, gave
it up, and went on also with a depressed countenance.

Presently Bert came to a big wooden house standing casually among the
trees. It looked a bleak, bare box of a house to him, no creeper grew on
it, no hedge nor wall nor fence parted it off from the woods about it.
He stopped before the steps that led up to the door, perhaps thirty
yards away. The place seemed deserted. He would have gone up to the
door and rapped, but suddenly a big black dog appeared at the side and
regarded him. It was a huge heavy-jawed dog of some unfamiliar breed,
and it, wore a spike-studded collar. It did not bark nor approach him,
it just bristled quietly and emitted a single sound like a short, deep
cough.

Bert hesitated and went on.

He stopped thirty paces away and stood peering about him among the
trees. "If I 'aven't been and lef' that kitten," he said.

Acute sorrow wrenched him for a time. The black dog came through the
trees to get a better look at him and coughed that well-bred cough
again. Bert resumed the road.

"She'll do all right," he said.... "She'll catch things.

"She'll do all right," he said presently, without conviction. But if it
had not been for the black dog, he would have gone back.

When he was out of sight of the house and the black dog, he went into
the woods on the other side of the way and emerged after an interval
trimming a very tolerable cudgel with his pocket-knife. Presently he saw
an attractive-looking rock by the track and picked it up and put it in
his pocket. Then he came to three or four houses, wooden like the last,
each with an ill-painted white verandah (that was his name for it) and
all standing in the same casual way upon the ground. Behind, through
the woods, he saw pig-stys and a rooting black sow leading a brisk,
adventurous family. A wild-looking woman with sloe-black eyes and
dishevelled black hair sat upon the steps of one of the houses nursing a
baby, but at the sight of Bert she got up and went inside, and he heard
her bolting the door. Then a boy appeared among the pig-stys, but he
would not understand Bert's hail.

"I suppose it is America!" said Bert.

The houses became more frequent down the road, and he passed two other
extremely wild and dirty-looking men without addressing them. One
carried a gun and the other a hatchet, and they scrutinised him and his
cudgel scornfully. Then he struck a cross-road with a mono-rail at its
side, and there was a notice board at the corner with "Wait here for the
cars." "That's all right, any'ow," said Bert. "Wonder 'ow long I should
'ave to wait?" It occurred to him that in the present disturbed state of
the country the service might be interrupted, and as there seemed more
houses to the right than the left he turned to the right. He passed an
old negro. "'Ullo!" said Bert. "Goo' morning!"

"Good day, sah!" said the old negro, in a voice of almost incredible
richness.

"What's the name of this place?" asked Bert.

"Tanooda, sah!" said the negro.

"Thenks!" said Bert.

"Thank YOU, sah!" said the negro, overwhelmingly.

Bert came to houses of the same detached, unwalled, wooden type, but
adorned now with enamelled advertisements partly in English and partly
in Esperanto. Then he came to what he concluded was a grocer's shop. It
was the first house that professed the hospitality of an open door, and
from within came a strangely familiar sound. "Gaw!" he said searching
in his pockets. "Why! I 'aven't wanted money for free weeks! I wonder
if I--Grubb 'ad most of it. Ah!" He produced a handful of coins and
regarded it; three pennies, sixpence, and a shilling. "That's all
right," he said, forgetting a very obvious consideration.

He approached the door, and as he did so a compactly built, grey-faced
man in shirt sleeves appeared in it and scrutinised him and his cudgel.
"Mornin'," said Bert. "Can I get anything to eat 'r drink in this shop?"

The man in the door replied, thank Heaven, in clear, good American.
"This, sir, is not A shop, it is A store."

"Oh!" said Bert, and then, "Well, can I get anything to eat?"

"You can," said the American in a tone of confident encouragement, and
led the way inside.

The shop seemed to him by his Bun Hill standards extremely roomy, well
lit, and unencumbered. There was a long counter to the left of him,
with drawers and miscellaneous commodities ranged behind it, a number of
chairs, several tables, and two spittoons to the right, various barrels,
cheeses, and bacon up the vista, and beyond, a large archway leading to
more space. A little group of men was assembled round one of the tables,
and a woman of perhaps five-and-thirty leant with her elbows on the
counter. All the men were armed with rifles, and the barrel of a gun
peeped above the counter. They were all listening idly, inattentively,
to a cheap, metallic-toned gramophone that occupied a table near at
hand. From its brazen throat came words that gave Bert a qualm of
homesickness, that brought back in his memory a sunlit beach, a group of
children, red-painted bicycles, Grubb, and an approaching balloon:--

"Ting-a-ling-a-ting-a-ling-a-ting-a ling-a-tang... What Price Hair-pins
Now?"

A heavy-necked man in a straw hat, who was chewing something, stopped
the machine with a touch, and they all turned their eyes on Bert. And
all their eyes were tired eyes.

"Can we give this gentleman anything to eat, mother, or can we not?"
said the proprietor.

"He kin have what he likes?" said the woman at the counter, without
moving, "right up from a cracker to a square meal." She struggled with a
yawn, after the manner of one who has been up all night.

"I want a meal," said Bert, "but I 'aven't very much money. I don' want
to give mor'n a shillin'."

"Mor'n a WHAT?" said the proprietor, sharply.

"Mor'n a shillin'," said Bert, with a sudden disagreeable realisation
coming into his mind.

"Yes," said the proprietor, startled for a moment from his courtly
bearing. "But what in hell is a shilling?"

"He means a quarter," said a wise-looking, lank young man in riding
gaiters.

Bert, trying to conceal his consternation, produced a coin. "That's a
shilling," he said.

"He calls A store A shop," said the proprietor, "and he wants A meal for
A shilling. May I ask you, sir, what part of America you hail from?"

Bert replaced the shilling in his pocket as he spoke, "Niagara," he
said.

"And when did you leave Niagara?"

"'Bout an hour ago."

"Well," said the proprietor, and turned with a puzzled smile to the
others. "Well!"

They asked various questions simultaneously.

Bert selected one or two for reply. "You see," he said, "I been with
the German air-fleet. I got caught up by them, sort of by accident, and
brought over here."

"From England?"

"Yes--from England. Way of Germany. I was in a great battle with them
Asiatics, and I got lef' on a little island between the Falls."

"Goat Island?"

"I don' know what it was called. But any'ow I found a flying-machine and
made a sort of fly with it and got here."

Two men stood up with incredulous eyes on him. "Where's the
flying-machine?" they asked; "outside?"

"It's back in the woods here--'bout arf a mile away."

"Is it good?" said a thick-lipped man with a scar.

"I come down rather a smash--."

Everybody got up and stood about him and talked confusingly. They wanted
him to take them to the flying-machine at once.

"Look 'ere," said Bert, "I'll show you--only I 'aven't 'ad anything to
eat since yestiday--except mineral water."

A gaunt soldierly-looking young man with long lean legs in riding
gaiters and a bandolier, who had hitherto not spoken, intervened now on
his behalf in a note of confident authority. "That's aw right," he said.
"Give him a feed, Mr. Logan--from me. I want to hear more of that story
of his. We'll see his machine afterwards. If you ask me, I should say
it's a remarkably interesting accident had dropped this gentleman here.
I guess we requisition that flying-machine--if we find it--for local
defence."

3

So Bert fell on his feet again, and sat eating cold meat and good bread
and mustard and drinking very good beer, and telling in the roughest
outline and with the omissions and inaccuracies of statement natural to
his type of mind, the simple story of his adventures. He told how he and
a "gentleman friend" had been visiting the seaside for their health, how
a "chep" came along in a balloon and fell out as he fell in, how he had
drifted to Franconia, how the Germans had seemed to mistake him for some
one and had "took him prisoner" and brought him to New York, how he
had been to Labrador and back, how he had got to Goat Island and
found himself there alone. He omitted the matter of the Prince and the
Butteridge aspect of the affair, not out of any deep deceitfulness,
but because he felt the inadequacy of his narrative powers. He wanted
everything to seem easy and natural and correct, to present himself as a
trustworthy and understandable Englishman in a sound mediocre position,
to whom refreshment and accommodation might be given with freedom and
confidence. When his fragmentary story came to New York and the battle
of Niagara, they suddenly produced newspapers which had been lying about
on the table, and began to check him and question him by these vehement
accounts. It became evident to him that his descent had revived and
roused to flames again a discussion, a topic, that had been burning
continuously, that had smouldered only through sheer exhaustion of
material during the temporary diversion of the gramophone, a discussion
that had drawn these men together, rifle in hand, the one supreme topic
of the whole world, the War and the methods of the War. He found any
question of his personality and his personal adventures falling into the
background, found himself taken for granted, and no more than a source
of information. The ordinary affairs of life, the buying and selling
of everyday necessities, the cultivation of the ground, the tending
of beasts, was going on as it were by force of routine, as the common
duties of life go on in a house whose master lies under the knife of
some supreme operation. The overruling interest was furnished by those
great Asiatic airships that went upon incalculable missions across the
sky, the crimson-clad swordsmen who might come fluttering down demanding
petrol, or food, or news. These men were asking, all the continent was
asking, "What are we to do? What can we try? How can we get at them?"
Bert fell into his place as an item, ceased even in his own thoughts to
be a central and independent thing.

After he had eaten and drunken his fill and sighed and stretched and
told them how good the food seemed to him, he lit a cigarette they gave
him and led the way, with some doubts and trouble, to the flying-machine
amidst the larches. It became manifest that the gaunt young man, whose
name, it seemed, was Laurier, was a leader both by position and natural
aptitude. He knew the names and characters and capabilities of all the
men who were with him, and he set them to work at once with vigour and
effect to secure this precious instrument of war. They got the thing
down to the ground deliberately and carefully, felling a couple of trees
in the process, and they built a wide flat roof of timbers and tree
boughs to guard their precious find against its chance discovery by any
passing Asiatics. Long before evening they had an engineer from the next
township at work upon it, and they were casting lots among the seventeen
picked men who wanted to take it for its first flight. And Bert found
his kitten and carried it back to Logan's store and handed it with
earnest admonition to Mrs. Logan. And it was reassuringly clear to him
that in Mrs. Logan both he and the kitten had found a congenial soul.

Laurier was not only a masterful person and a wealthy property owner and
employer--he was president, Bert learnt with awe, of the Tanooda Canning
Corporation--but he was popular and skilful in the arts of popularity.
In the evening quite a crowd of men gathered in the store and talked of
the flying-machine and of the war that was tearing the world to pieces.
And presently came a man on a bicycle with an ill-printed newspaper of a
single sheet which acted like fuel in a blazing furnace of talk. It
was nearly all American news; the old-fashioned cables had fallen into
disuse for some years, and the Marconi stations across the ocean and
along the Atlantic coastline seemed to have furnished particularly
tempting points of attack.

But such news it was.

Bert sat in the background--for by this time they had gauged his
personal quality pretty completely--listening. Before his staggering
mind passed strange vast images as they talked, of great issues at a
crisis, of nations in tumultuous march, of continents overthrown, of
famine and destruction beyond measure. Ever and again, in spite of his
efforts to suppress them, certain personal impressions would scamper
across the weltering confusion, the horrible mess of the exploded
Prince, the Chinese aeronaut upside down, the limping and bandaged
bird-faced officer blundering along in miserable and hopeless flight....

They spoke of fire and massacre, of cruelties and counter cruelties, of
things that had been done to harmless Asiatics by race-mad men, of the
wholesale burning and smashing up of towns, railway junctions, bridges,
of whole populations in hiding and exodus. "Every ship they've got is in
the Pacific," he heard one man exclaim. "Since the fighting began they
can't have landed on the Pacific slope less than a million men. They've
come to stay in these States, and they will--living or dead."

Slowly, broadly, invincibly, there grew upon Bert's mind realisation
of the immense tragedy of humanity into which his life was flowing;
the appalling and universal nature of the epoch that had arrived; the
conception of an end to security and order and habit. The whole world
was at war and it could not get back to peace, it might never recover
peace.

He had thought the things he had seen had been exceptional, conclusive
things, that the besieging of New York and the battle of the Atlantic
were epoch-making events between long years of security. And they had
been but the first warning impacts of universal cataclysm. Each day
destruction and hate and disaster grew, the fissures widened between
man and man, new regions of the fabric of civilisation crumbled and gave
way. Below, the armies grew and the people perished; above, the airships
and aeroplanes fought and fled, raining destruction.

It is difficult perhaps for the broad-minded and long-perspectived
reader to understand how incredible the breaking down of the scientific
civilisation seemed to those who actually lived at this time, who in
their own persons went down in that debacle. Progress had marched as it
seemed invincible about the earth, never now to rest again. For three
hundred years and more the long steadily accelerated diastole of
Europeanised civilisation had been in progress: towns had been
multiplying, populations increasing, values rising, new countries
developing; thought, literature, knowledge unfolding and spreading. It
seemed but a part of the process that every year the instruments of war
were vaster and more powerful, and that armies and explosives outgrew
all other growing things....

Three hundred years of diastole, and then came the swift and unexpected
systole, like the closing of a fist. They could not understand it was
systole.

They could not think of it as anything but a jolt, a hitch, a mere
oscillatory indication of the swiftness of their progress. Collapse,
though it happened all about them, remained incredible. Presently some
falling mass smote them down, or the ground opened beneath their feet.
They died incredulous....

These men in the store made a minute, remote group under this immense
canopy of disaster. They turned from one little aspect to another. What
chiefly concerned them was defence against Asiatic raiders swooping for
petrol or to destroy weapons or communications. Everywhere levies were
being formed at that time to defend the plant of the railroads day and
night in the hope that communication would speedily be restored. The
land war was still far away. A man with a flat voice distinguished
himself by a display of knowledge and cunning. He told them all with
confidence just what had been wrong with the German drachenflieger
and the American aeroplanes, just what advantage the Japanese flyers
possessed. He launched out into a romantic description of the Butteridge
machine and riveted Bert's attention. "I SEE that," said Bert, and was
smitten silent by a thought. The man with the flat voice talked on,
without heeding him, of the strange irony of Butteridge's death. At
that Bert had a little twinge of relief--he would never meet Butteridge
again. It appeared Butteridge had died suddenly, very suddenly.

"And his secret, sir, perished with him! When they came to look for the
parts--none could find them. He had hidden them all too well."

"But couldn't he tell?" asked the man in the straw hat. "Did he die so
suddenly as that?"

"Struck down, sir. Rage and apoplexy. At a place called Dymchurch in
England."

"That's right," said Laurier. "I remember a page about it in the Sunday
American. At the time they said it was a German spy had stolen his
balloon."

"Well, sir," said the flat-voiced man, "that fit of apoplexy at
Dyrnchurch was the worst thing--absolutely the worst thing that ever
happened to the world. For if it had not been for the death of Mr.
Butteridge--"

"No one knows his secret?"

"Not a soul. It's gone. His balloon, it appears, was lost at sea, with
all the plans. Down it went, and they went with it."

Pause.

"With machines such as he made we could fight these Asiatic fliers
on more than equal terms. We could outfly and beat down those scarlet
humming-birds wherever they appeared. But it's gone, it's gone, and
there's no time to reinvent it now. We got to fight with what we
got--and the odds are against us. THAT won't stop us fightin'. No! but
just think of it!"

Bert was trembling violently. He cleared his throat hoarsely.

"I say," he said, "look here, I--"

Nobody regarded him. The man with the flat voice was opening a new
branch of the subject.

"I allow--" he began.

Bert became violently excited. He stood up.

He made clawing motions with his hands. "I say!" he exclaimed, "Mr.
Laurier. Look 'ere--I want--about that Butteridge machine--."

Mr. Laurier, sitting on an adjacent table, with a magnificent gesture,
arrested the discourse of the flat-voiced man. "What's HE saying?" said
he.

Then the whole company realised that something was happening to Bert;
either he was suffocating or going mad. He was spluttering.

"Look 'ere! I say! 'Old on a bit!" and trembling and eagerly unbuttoning
himself.

He tore open his collar and opened vest and shirt. He plunged into his
interior and for an instant it seemed he was plucking forth his liver.
Then as he struggled with buttons on his shoulder they perceived this
flattened horror was in fact a terribly dirty flannel chest-protector.
In an other moment Bert, in a state of irregular decolletage, was
standing over the table displaying a sheaf of papers.

"These!" he gasped. "These are the plans!... You know! Mr.
Butteridge--his machine! What died! I was the chap that went off in that
balloon!"

For some seconds every one was silent. They stared from these papers to
Bert's white face and blazing eyes, and back to the papers on the table.
Nobody moved. Then the man with the flat voice spoke.

"Irony!" he said, with a note of satisfaction. "Real rightdown Irony!
When it's too late to think of making 'em any more!"

4

They would all no doubt have been eager to hear Bert's story over again,
but it was it this point that Laurier showed his quality. "No, SIR," he
said, and slid from off his table.

He impounded the dispersing Butteridge plans with one comprehensive
sweep of his arm, rescuing them even from the expository finger-marks of
the man with the flat voice, and handed them to Bert. "Put those back,"
he said, "where you had 'em. We have a journey before us."

Bert took them.

"Whar?" said the man in the straw hat.

"Why, sir, we are going to find the President of these States and give
these plans over to him. I decline to believe, sir, we are too late."

"Where is the President?" asked Bert weakly in that pause that followed.

"Logan," said Laurier, disregarding that feeble inquiry, "you must help
us in this."

It seemed only a matter of a few minutes before Bert and Laurier and the
storekeeper were examining a number of bicycles that were stowed in the
hinder room of the store. Bert didn't like any of them very much. They
had wood rims and an experience of wood rims in the English climate had
taught him to hate them. That, however, and one or two other objections
to an immediate start were overruled by Laurier. "But where IS the
President?" Bert repeated as they stood behind Logan while he pumped up
a deflated tyre.

Laurier looked down on him. "He is reported in the neighbourhood of
Albany--out towards the Berkshire Hills. He is moving from place to
place and, as far as he can, organising the defence by telegraph and
telephones The Asiatic air-fleet is trying to locate him. When they
think they have located the seat of government, they throw bombs. This
inconveniences him, but so far they have not come within ten miles of
him. The Asiatic air-fleet is at present scattered all over the
Eastern States, seeking out and destroying gas-works and whatever seems
conducive to the building of airships or the transport of troops.
Our retaliatory measures are slight in the extreme. But with these
machines--Sir, this ride of ours will count among the historical rides
of the world!"

He came near to striking an attitude. "We shan't get to him to-night?"
asked Bert.

"No, sir!" said Laurier. "We shall have to ride some days, sure!"

"And suppose we can't get a lift on a train--or anything?"

"No, sir! There's been no transit by Tanooda for three days. It is no
good waiting. We shall have to get on as well as we can."

"Startin' now?"

"Starting now!"

"But 'ow about--We shan't be able to do much to-night."

"May as well ride till we're fagged and sleep then. So much clear gain.
Our road is eastward."

"Of course," began Bert, with memories of the dawn upon Goat Island, and
left his sentence unfinished.

He gave his attention to the more scientific packing of the
chest-protector, for several of the plans flapped beyond his vest.

5

For a week Bert led a life of mixed sensations. Amidst these fatigue
in the legs predominated. Mostly he rode, rode with Laurier's back
inexorably ahead, through a land like a larger England, with bigger
hills and wider valleys, larger fields, wider roads, fewer hedges, and
wooden houses with commodious piazzas. He rode. Laurier made inquiries,
Laurier chose the turnings, Laurier doubted, Laurier decided. Now it
seemed they were in telephonic touch with the President; now something
had happened and he was lost again. But always they had to go on, and
always Bert rode. A tyre was deflated. Still he rode. He grew saddle
sore. Laurier declared that unimportant. Asiatic flying ships passed
overhead, the two cyclists made a dash for cover until the sky was
clear. Once a red Asiatic flying-machine came fluttering after them, so
low they could distinguish the aeronaut's head. He followed them for a
mile. Now they came to regions of panic, now to regions of destruction;
here people were fighting for food, here they seemed hardly stirred
from the countryside routine. They spent a day in a deserted and
damaged Albany. The Asiatics had descended and cut every wire and made a
cinder-heap of the Junction, and our travellers pushed on eastward.
They passed a hundred half-heeded incidents, and always Bert was toiling
after Laurier's indefatigable back....

Things struck upon Bert's attention and perplexed him, and then he
passed on with unanswered questionings fading from his mind.

He saw a large house on fire on a hillside to the right, and no man
heeding it....

They came to a narrow railroad bridge and presently to a mono-rail train
standing in the track on its safety feet. It was a remarkably sumptuous
train, the Last Word Trans-Continental Express, and the passengers were
all playing cards or sleeping or preparing a picnic meal on a grassy
slope near at hand. They had been there six days....

At one point ten dark-complexioned men were hanging in a string from the
trees along the roadside. Bert wondered why....

At one peaceful-looking village where they stopped off to get Bert's
tyre mended and found beer and biscuits, they were approached by an
extremely dirty little boy without boots, who spoke as follows:--

"Deyse been hanging a Chink in dose woods!"

"Hanging a Chinaman?" said Laurier.

"Sure. Der sleuths got him rubberin' der rail-road sheds!"

"Oh!"

"Dose guys done wase cartridges. Deyse hung him and dey pulled his legs.
Deyse doin' all der Chinks dey can fine dat weh! Dey ain't takin' no
risks. All der Chinks dey can fine."

Neither Bert nor Laurier made any reply, and presently, after a
little skilful expectoration, the young gentleman was attracted by
the appearance of two of his friends down the road and shuffled off,
whooping weirdly....

That afternoon they almost ran over a man shot through the body and
partly decomposed, lying near the middle of the road, just outside
Albany. He must have been lying there for some days....

Beyond Albany they came upon a motor car with a tyre burst and a young
woman sitting absolutely passive beside the driver's seat. An old man
was under the car trying to effect some impossible repairs. Beyond,
sitting with a rifle across his knees, with his back to the car, and
staring into the woods, was a young man.

The old man crawled out at their approach and still on all-fours
accosted Bert and Laurier. The car had broken down overnight. The old
man, said he could not understand what was wrong, but he was trying
to puzzle it out. Neither he nor his son-in-law had any mechanical
aptitude. They had been assured this was a fool-proof car. It was
dangerous to have to stop in this place. The party had been attacked
by tramps and had had to fight. It was known they had provisions. He
mentioned a great name in the world of finance. Would Laurier and Bert
stop and help him? He proposed it first hopefully, then urgently, at
last in tears and terror.

"No!" said Laurier inexorable. "We must go on! We have something more
than a woman to save. We have to save America!"

The girl never stirred.

And once they passed a madman singing.

And at last they found the President hiding in a small saloon upon the
outskirts of a place called Pinkerville on the Hudson, and gave the
plans of the Butteridge machine into his hands.


CHAPTER XI. THE GREAT COLLAPSE

1

And now the whole fabric of civilisation was bending and giving, and
dropping to pieces and melting in the furnace of the war.

The stages of the swift and universal collapse of the financial and
scientific civilisation with which the twentieth century opened followed
each other very swiftly, so swiftly that upon the foreshortened page of
history--they seem altogether to overlap. To begin with, one sees the
world nearly at a maximum wealth and prosperity. To its inhabitants
indeed it seemed also at a maximum of security. When now in retrospect
the thoughtful observer surveys the intellectual history of this time,
when one reads its surviving fragments of literature, its scraps of
political oratory, the few small voices that chance has selected out of
a thousand million utterances to speak to later days, the most striking
thing of all this web of wisdom and error is surely that hallucination
of security. To men living in our present world state, orderly,
scientific and secured, nothing seems so precarious, so giddily
dangerous, as the fabric of the social order with which the men of the
opening of the twentieth century were content. To us it seems that every
institution and relationship was the fruit of haphazard and tradition
and the manifest sport of chance, their laws each made for some separate
occasion and having no relation to any future needs, their customs
illogical, their education aimless and wasteful. Their method of
economic exploitation indeed impresses a trained and informed mind as
the most frantic and destructive scramble it is possible to conceive;
their credit and monetary system resting on an unsubstantial tradition
of the worthiness of gold, seems a thing almost fantastically unstable.
And they lived in planless cities, for the most part dangerously
congested; their rails and roads and population were distributed over
the earth in the wanton confusion ten thousand irrevelant considerations
had made.

Yet they thought confidently that this was a secure and permanent
progressive system, and on the strength of some three hundred years
of change and irregular improvement answered the doubter with, "Things
always have gone well. We'll worry through!"

But when we contrast the state of man in the opening of the twentieth
century with the condition of any previous period in his history, then
perhaps we may begin to understand something of that blind confidence.
I was a little owly about dinner, though, because soon afterward it would
be train time. But I needn't have been. My family certainly is the
gamest crowd I ever saw. Even Grandfather, who takes things rather
seriously as a rule, told a couple of corking stories, and Grandmother
laughed at them in a perfectly natural way, though I couldn't
help suspecting her of bluffing. Of course, when it came to that, I knew
they were all bluffing. But I tell you, a fellow wants a bluff at a
time like that, and he isn't going to misunderstand it, either--not
from my sort of people.

The time came at last when I had to go up to my room and get my stuff--and
I knew what would happen then. Mother would come, too, and we'd say
our real good-bye there. That's only fair to her--and to me, too,
for I wouldn't miss it, even though it's the real crisis in every going
away. But--that night--well....

Of course, you know, the room's full of my junk--things I've had since
I was a little chap, all the way up, to things I had in my Freshman
year and thought were awfully sporty--and then discarded and brought
home to keep in remembrance of my foolish youth.

I'm pretty fond of that old room. I don't need to explain that much,
probably. Any fellow would know.

I took one look around before Mother came--I thought one would be about
all that would be good for me. The fire was burning rather brightly
on the hearth, but I'd put out the other lights.... Then Mother came
in.

If I hadn't caught a glimpse of her hands I shouldn't have known, but
I did happen to see them as she came in. They were clinched tight at her
sides, just the way I've often clinched mine before I went into a game
on which a good deal depended. But the next minute her arms were round
my neck in the old way, and she was holding me so tight I could hardly
breathe--and I don't believe she could breathe much, either, for I was
giving her back every bit of that, with some to spare. I have an
idea she was saying, inside, "I won't--I _won't"_--just the same way I
was. And she didn't--and I didn't--though _not to_ certainly pulled
harder than anything I ever _didn't_ do in my life!

She didn't keep me long. Just that one great hug, and something else
that goes with it, and then _what_ do you think she said? If I'd had a
hat on I'd have taken it off to her at that moment. She looked up into
my face, and showed me hers, all smiling, and not a tear in her eyes,
and said:

_"Jacky, you're a brick!"_
And then I just broke out into a great laugh of relief, and I
shouted:

_"Mother, you're a whole brickyard!"_
And we went downstairs carrying my luggage between us, and the worst was
over, and the thing I dreaded hadn't happened.

Perhaps you think she ought to have prayed over me, and given me a
Bible, and a lot of good motherly advice.

Don't you think it! The prayers had been spread over twenty-two years
of my life, and the Bible was all marked up with her markings. As for
the good advice--well--if she hadn't done her level best, long before
that, to teach me to keep clean, and think straight, and "hit the
line hard"--it was too late to begin then. But she didn't have to begin
then, because the thing was done, as well as any mother on earth
could do it. And if you think that little thumb-marked book
wasn't in my bag at that minute, you don't think right, that's all.

Dad said a few fatherly things to me before I went, like the all-round
trump he is, and I was glad to have him. I could stand that all right.

But I couldn't have borne anything from Mother--not then--and she knew
it. How did she know? That's what gets me. But she did, the way she's
always seemed to know things without being told. She's that sort, you
see.

They all went down to the station with me, in the seven-passenger,
with Dad driving. We didn't talk much on the way. I tried not to see the
familiar old streets. I hadn't told anybody what train I was going
on, but some of my old friends found out and came down just the
same, and were there in a bunch to send me off. They hurried up to
us, and shook hands and jollied me, and everything was lively. When
the train came in we all went together to it, and then I saw the
boys stand back and look at Mother. I don't know what they expected
to see, but I'm pretty sure it wasn't what they did see.
It was evening, but instead of putting on an awfully stunning
fur-bordered coat over the things she'd worn to dinner, as she
usually does when she goes out in the car at night, Mother'd taken
the trouble to go back to the tailored suit and little close hat
she wears in the street and for driving. She knows I like her best
that way--and I certainly did that night.Behind it a second air-fleet was already
swelling at its gasometers when England and France and Spain and Italy
showed their hands. None of these countries had prepared for aeronautic
warfare on the magnificent scale of the Germans, but each guarded
secrets, each in a measure was making ready, and a common dread of
German vigour and that aggressive spirit Prince Karl Albert embodied,
had long been drawing these powers together in secret anticipation of
some such attack. This rendered their prompt co-operation possible, and
they certainly co-operated promptly. The second aerial power in Europe
at this time was France; the British, nervous for their Asiatic
empire, and sensible of the immense moral effect of the airship upon
half-educated populations, had placed their aeronautic parks in North
India, and were able to play but a subordinate part in the European
conflict. Still, even in England they had nine or ten big navigables,
twenty or thirty smaller ones, and a variety of experimental aeroplanes.
Before the fleet of Prince Karl Albert had crossed England, while
Bert was still surveying Manchester in bird's-eye view, the diplomatic
exchanges were going on that led to an attack upon Germany. A
heterogeneous collection of navigable balloons of all sizes and types
gathered over the Bernese Oberland, crushed and burnt the twenty-five
Swiss air-ships that unexpectedly resisted this concentration in the
battle of the Alps, and then, leaving the Alpine glaciers and valleys
strewn with strange wreckage, divided into two fleets and set itself
to terrorise Berlin and destroy the Franconian Park, seeking to do this
before the second air-fleet could be inflated.

Both over Berlin and Franconia the assailants with their modern
explosives effected great damage before they were driven off. In
Franconia twelve fully distended and five partially filled and manned
giants were able to make head against and at last, with the help of a
squadron of drachenflieger from Hamburg, defeat and pursue the attack
and to relieve Berlin, and the Germans were straining every nerve to get
an overwhelming fleet in the air, and were already raiding London and
Paris when the advance fleets from the Asiatic air-parks, the first
intimation of a new factor in the conflict, were reported from Burmah
and Armenia.

Already the whole financial fabric of the world was staggering when
that occurred. With the destruction of the American fleet in the North
Atlantic, and the smashing conflict that ended the naval existence of
Germany in the North Sea, with the burning and wrecking of billions of
pounds' worth of property in the four cardinal cities of the world, the
fact of the hopeless costliness of war came home for the first time,
came, like a blow in the face, to the consciousness of mankind. Credit
went down in a wild whirl of selling. Everywhere appeared a phenomenon
that had already in a mild degree manifested itself in preceding periods
of panic; a desire to SECURE AND HOARD GOLD before prices reached
bottom. But now it spread like wild-fire, it became universal. Above was
visible conflict and destruction; below something was happening far more
deadly and incurable to the flimsy fabric of finance and commercialism
in which men had so blindly put their trust. As the airships fought
above, the visible gold supply of the world vanished below. An epidemic
of private cornering and universal distrust swept the world. In a few
weeks, money, except for depreciated paper, vanished into vaults, into
holes, into the walls of houses, into ten million hiding-places. Money
vanished, and at its disappearance trade and industry came to an end.
The economic world staggered and fell dead. It was like the stroke
of some disease it was like the water vanishing out of the blood of
a living creature; it was a sudden, universal coagulation of
intercourse....

And as the credit system, that had been the living fortress of the
scientific civilisation, reeled and fell upon the millions it had
held together in economic relationship, as these people, perplexed and
helpless, faced this marvel of credit utterly destroyed, the airships
of Asia, countless and relentless, poured across the heavens, swooped
eastward to America and westward to Europe. The page of history
becomes a long crescendo of battle. The main body of the British-Indian
air-fleet perished upon a pyre of blazing antagonists in Burmah; the
Germans were scattered in the great battle of the Carpathians; the vast
peninsula of India burst into insurrection and civil war from end to
end, and from Gobi to Morocco rose the standards of the "Jehad."
For some weeks of warfare and destruction it seemed as though the
Confederation of Eastern Asia must needs conquer the world, and then
the jerry-built "modern" civilisation of China too gave way under
the strain. The teeming and peaceful population of China had been
"westernised" during the opening years of the twentieth century with
the deepest resentment and reluctance; they had been dragooned and
disciplined under Japanese and European--influence into an acquiescence
with sanitary methods, police controls, military service, and wholesale
process of exploitation against which their whole tradition rebelled.
Under the stresses of the war their endurance reached the breaking
point, the whole of China rose in incoherent revolt, and the practical
destruction of the central government at Pekin by a handful of British
and German airships that had escaped from the main battles rendered that
revolt invincible. In Yokohama appeared barricades, the black flag and
the social revolution. With that the whole world became a welter of
conflict.

So that a universal social collapse followed, as it were a logical
consequence, upon world-wide war. Wherever there were great populations,
great masses of people found themselves without work, without money,
and unable to get food. Famine was in every working-class quarter in
the world within three weeks of the beginning of the war. Within a
month there was not a city anywhere in which the ordinary law and social
procedure had not been replaced by some form of emergency control, in
which firearms and military executions were not being used to keep
order and prevent violence. And still in the poorer quarters, and in the
populous districts, and even here and there already among those who had
been wealthy, famine spread.

3

So what historians have come to call the Phase of the Emergency
Committees sprang from the opening phase and from the phase of social
collapse. Then followed a period of vehement and passionate conflict
against disintegration; everywhere the struggle to keep order and to
keep fighting went on. And at the same time the character of the war
altered through the replacement of the huge gas-filled airships by
flying-machines as the instruments of war. So soon as the big fleet
engagements were over, the Asiatics endeavoured to establish in close
proximity to the more vulnerable points of the countries against which
they were acting, fortified centres from which flying-machine raids
could be made. For a time they had everything their own way in this, and
then, as this story has told, the lost secret of the Butteridge machine
came to light, and the conflict became equalized and less conclusive
than ever. For these small flying-machines, ineffectual for any large
expedition or conclusive attack, were horribly convenient for guerilla
warfare, rapidly and cheaply made, easily used, easily hidden. The
design of them was hastily copied and printed in Pinkerville and
scattered broadcast over the United States and copies were sent to
Europe, and there reproduced. Every man, every town, every parish that
could, was exhorted to make and use them. In a little while they were
being constructed not only by governments and local authorities, but by
robber bands, by insurgent committees, by every type of private person.
The peculiar social destructiveness of the Butteridge machine lay in
its complete simplicity. It was nearly as simple as a motor-bicycle. The
broad outlines of the earlier stages of the war disappeared under its
influence, the spacious antagonism of nations and empires and races
vanished in a seething mass of detailed conflict. The world passed at a
stride from a unity and simplicity broader than that of the Roman Empire
at its best, to as social fragmentation as complete as the robber-baron
period of the Middle Ages. But this time, for a long descent down
gradual slopes of disintegration, comes a fall like a fall over a cliff.
Everywhere were men and women perceiving this and struggling desperately
to keep as it were a hold upon the edge of the cliff.

A fourth phase follows. Through the struggle against Chaos, in the wake
of the Famine, came now another old enemy of humanity--the Pestilence,
the Purple Death. But the war does not pause. The flags still fly.
Fresh air-fleets rise, new forms of airship, and beneath their swooping
struggles the world darkens--scarcely heeded by history.

It is not within the design of this book to tell what further story, to
tell how the War in the Air kept on through the sheer inability of
any authorities to meet and agree and end it, until every organised
government in the world was as shattered and broken as a heap of china
beaten with a stick. With every week of those terrible years history
becomes more detailed and confused, more crowded and uncertain. Not
without great and heroic resistance was civilisation borne down. Out
of the bitter social conflict below rose patriotic associations,
brotherhoods of order, city mayors, princes, provisional committees,
trying to establish an order below and to keep the sky above. The double
effort destroyed them. And as the exhaustion of the mechanical resources
of civilisation clears the heavens of airships at last altogether,
Anarchy, Famine and Pestilence are discovered triumphant below. The
great nations and empires have become but names in the mouths of men.
Everywhere there are ruins and unburied dead, and shrunken, yellow-faced
survivors in a mortal apathy. Here there are robbers, here vigilance
committees, and here guerilla bands ruling patches of exhausted
territory, strange federations and brotherhoods form and dissolve, and
religious fanaticisms begotten of despair gleam in famine-bright eyes.
It is a universal dissolution. The fine order and welfare of the earth
have crumpled like an exploded bladder. In five short years the world
and the scope of human life have undergone a retrogressive change as
great as that between the age of the Antonines and the Europe of the
ninth century....

4

Across this sombre spectacle of disaster goes a minute and insignificant
person for whom perhaps the readers of this story have now some
slight solicitude. Of him there remains to be told just one single
and miraculous thing. Through a world darkened and lost, through a
civilisation in its death agony, our little Cockney errant went and
found his Edna! He found his Edna!

He got back across the Atlantic partly by means of an order from the
President and partly through his own good luck. He contrived to get
himself aboard a British brig in the timber trade that put out from
Boston without cargo, chiefly, it would seem, because its captain had
a vague idea of "getting home" to South Shields. Bert was able to ship
himself upon her mainly because of the seamanlike appearance of his
rubber boots. They had a long, eventful voyage; they were chased, or
imagined themselves to be chased, for some hours by an Asiatic ironclad,
which was presently engaged by a British cruiser. The two ships fought
for three hours, circling and driving southward as they fought, until
the twilight and the cloud-drift of a rising gale swallowed them up. A
few days later Bert's ship lost her rudder and mainmast in a gale. The
crew ran out of food and subsisted on fish. They saw strange air-ships
going eastward near the Azores and landed to get provisions and repair
the rudder at Teneriffe. There they found the town destroyed and two big
liners, with dead still aboard, sunken in the harbour. From there they
got canned food and material for repairs, but their operations were
greatly impeded by the hostility of a band of men amidst the ruins of
the town, who sniped them and tried to drive them away.

At Mogador, they stayed and sent a boat ashore for water, and were
nearly captured by an Arab ruse. Here too they got the Purple Death
aboard, and sailed with it incubating in their blood. The cook sickened
first, and then the mate, and presently every one was down and three
in the forecastle were dead. It chanced to be calm weather, and they
drifted helplessly and indeed careless of their fate backwards towards
the Equator. The captain doctored them all with rum. Nine died all
together, and of the four survivors none understood navigation; when at
last they took heart again and could handle a sail, they made a course
by the stars roughly northward and were already short of food once
more when they fell in with a petrol-driven ship from Rio to Cardiff,
shorthanded by reason of the Purple Death and glad to take them aboard.
So at last, after a year of wandering Bert reached England. He landed in
bright June weather, and found the Purple Death was there just beginning
its ravages.

The people were in a state of panic in Cardiff and many had fled to the
hills, and directly the steamer came to the harbour she was boarded
and her residue of food impounded by some unauthenticated Provisional
Committee. Bert tramped through a country disorganised by pestilence,
foodless, and shaken to the very base of its immemorial order. He came
near death and starvation many times, and once he was drawn into scenes
of violence that might have ended his career. But the Bert Smallways
who tramped from Cardiff to London vaguely "going home," vaguely seeking
something of his own that had no tangible form but Edna, was a very
different person from the Desert Dervish who was swept out of England
in Mr. Butteridge's balloon a year before. He was brown and lean and
enduring, steady-eyed and pestilence-salted, and his mouth, which had
once hung open, shut now like a steel trap. Across his brow ran a white
scar that he had got in a fight on the brig. In Cardiff he had felt
the need of new clothes and a weapon, and had, by means that would have
shocked him a year ago, secured a flannel shirt, a corduroy suit, and
a revolver and fifty cartridges from an abandoned pawnbroker's. He
also got some soap and had his first real wash for thirteen months in
a stream outside the town. The Vigilance bands that had at first shot
plunderers very freely were now either entirely dispersed by the plague,
or busy between town and cemetery in a vain attempt to keep pace with
it. He prowled on the outskirts of the town for three or four days,
starving, and then went back to join the Hospital Corps for a week, and
so fortified himself with a few square meals before he started eastward.

The Welsh and English countryside at that time presented the strangest
mingling of the assurance and wealth of the opening twentieth century
with a sort of Dureresque medievalism. All the gear, the houses and
mono-rails, the farm hedges and power cables, the roads and pavements,
the sign-posts and advertisements of the former order were still for the
most part intact. Bankruptcy, social collapse, famine, and pestilence
had done nothing to damage these, and it was only to the great capitals
and ganglionic centres, as it were, of this State, that positive
destruction had come. Any one dropped suddenly into the country would
have noticed very little difference. He would have remarked first,
perhaps, that all the hedges needed clipping, that the roadside grass
grew rank, that the road-tracks were unusually rainworn, and that the
cottages by the wayside seemed in many cases shut up, that a telephone
wire had dropped here, and that a cart stood abandoned by the wayside.
But he would still find his hunger whetted by the bright assurance that
Wilder's Canned Peaches were excellent, or that there was nothing so
good for the breakfast table as Gobble's Sausages. And then suddenly
would come the Dureresque element; the skeleton of a horse, or some
crumpled mass of rags in the ditch, with gaunt extended feet and a
yellow, purple-blotched skin and face, or what had been a face, gaunt
and glaring and devastated. Then here would be a field that had been
ploughed and not sown, and here a field of corn carelessly trampled by
beasts, and here a hoarding torn down across the road to make a fire.

Then presently he would meet a man or a woman, yellow-faced and probably
negligently dressed and armed--prowling for food. These people would
have the complexions and eyes and expressions of tramps or criminals,
and often the clothing of prosperous middle-class or upper-class people.
Many of these would be eager for news, and willing to give help and even
scraps of queer meat, or crusts of grey and doughy bread, in return for
it. They would listen to Bert's story with avidity, and attempt to
keep him with them for a day or so. The virtual cessation of postal
distribution and the collapse of all newspaper enterprise had left an
immense and aching gap in the mental life of this time. Men had suddenly
lost sight of the ends of the earth and had still to recover the
rumour-spreading habits of the Middle Ages. In their eyes, in their
bearing, in their talk, was the quality of lost and deoriented souls.

As Bert travelled from parish to parish, and from district to district,
avoiding as far as possible those festering centres of violence and
despair, the larger towns, he found the condition of affairs varying
widely. In one parish he would find the large house burnt, the vicarage
wrecked, evidently in violent conflict for some suspected and perhaps
imaginary store of food unburied dead everywhere, and the whole
mechanism of the community at a standstill. In another he would find
organising forces stoutly at work, newly-painted notice boards warning
off vagrants, the roads and still cultivated fields policed by armed
men, the pestilence under control, even nursing going on, a store of
food husbanded, the cattle and sheep well guarded, and a group of two
or three justices, the village doctor or a farmer, dominating the
whole place; a reversion, in fact, to the autonomous community of the
fifteenth century. But at any time such a village would be liable to a
raid of Asiatics or Africans or such-like air-pirates, demanding
petrol and alcohol or provisions. The price of its order was an almost
intolerable watchfulness and tension.

Then the approach to the confused problems of some larger centre of
population and the presence of a more intricate conflict would be marked
by roughly smeared notices of "Quarantine" or "Strangers Shot," or by a
string of decaying plunderers dangling from the telephone poles at the
roadside. About Oxford big boards were put on the roofs warning all air
wanderers off with the single word, "Guns."

Taking their risks amidst these things, cyclists still kept abroad, and
once or twice during Bert's long tramp powerful motor cars containing
masked and goggled figures went tearing past him. There were few
police in evidence, but ever and again squads of gaunt and tattered
soldier-cyclists would come drifting along, and such encounters became
more frequent as he got out of Wales into England. Amidst all this
wreckage they were still campaigning. He had had some idea of resorting
to the workhouses for the night if hunger pressed him too closely, but
some of these were closed and others converted into temporary hospitals,
and one he came up to at twilight near a village in Gloucestershire
stood with all its doors and windows open, silent as the grave, and, as
he found to his horror by stumbling along evil-smelling corridors, full
of unburied dead.

From Gloucestershire Bert went northward to the British aeronautic park
outside Birmingham, in the hope that he might be taken on and given
food, for there the Government, or at any rate the War Office, still
existed as an energetic fact, concentrated amidst collapse and social
disaster upon the effort to keep the British flag still flying in
the air, and trying to brisk up mayor and mayor and magistrate and
magistrate in a new effort of organisation. They had brought together
all the best of the surviving artisans from that region, they had
provisioned the park for a siege, and they were urgently building a
larger type of Butteridge machine. Bert could get no footing at this
work: he was not sufficiently skilled, and he had drifted to Oxford when
the great fight occurred in which these works were finally wrecked. He
saw something, but not very much, of the battle from a place called
Boar Hill. He saw the Asiatic squadron coming up across the hills to the
south-west, and he saw one of their airships circling southward again
chased by two aeroplanes, the one that was ultimately overtaken, wrecked
and burnt at Edge Hill. But he never learnt the issue of the combat as a
whole.

He crossed the Thames from Eton to Windsor and made his way round the
south of London to Bun Hill, and there he found his brother Tom, looking
like some dark, defensive animal in the old shop, just recovering from
the Purple Death, and Jessica upstairs delirious, and, as it seemed to
him, dying grimly. She raved of sending out orders to customers, and
scolded Tom perpetually lest he should be late with Mrs. Thompson's
potatoes and Mrs. Hopkins' cauliflower, though all business had long
since ceased and Tom had developed a quite uncanny skill in the snaring
of rats and sparrows and the concealment of certain stores of cereals
and biscuits from plundered grocers' shops. Tom received his brother
with a sort of guarded warmth.

"Lor!" he said, "it's Bert. I thought you'd be coming back some day, and
I'm glad to see you. But I carn't arst you to eat anything, because I
'aven't got anything to eat.... Where you been, Bert, all this time?"

Bert reassured his brother by a glimpse of a partly eaten swede, and was
still telling his story in fragments and parentheses, when he discovered
behind the counter a yellow and forgotten note addressed to himself.
"What's this?" he said, and found it was a year-old note from Edna. "She
came 'ere," said Tom, like one who recalls a trivial thing, "arstin' for
you and arstin' us to take 'er in. That was after the battle and settin'
Clapham Rise afire. I was for takin' 'er in, but Jessica wouldn't 'ave
it--and so she borrowed five shillings of me quiet like and went on. I
dessay she's tole you--"

She had, Bert found. She had gone on, she said in her note, to an aunt
and uncle who had a brickfield near Horsham. And there at last, after
another fortnight of adventurous journeying, Bert found her.

5

When Bert and Edna set eyes on one another, they stared and laughed
foolishly, so changed they were, and so ragged and surprised. And then
they both fell weeping.

"Oh! Bertie, boy!" she cried. "You've come--you've come!" and put out
her arms and staggered. "I told 'im. He said he'd kill me if I didn't
marry him."

But Edna was not married, and when presently Bert could get talk from
her, she explained the task before him. That little patch of lonely
agricultural country had fallen under the power of a band of bullies
led by a chief called Bill Gore who had begun life as a butcher boy and
developed into a prize-fighter and a professional sport. They had been
organised by a local nobleman of former eminence upon the turf, but
after a time he had disappeared, no one quite knew how and Bill had
succeeded to the leadership of the countryside, and had developed his
teacher's methods with considerable vigour. There had been a strain
of advanced philosophy about the local nobleman, and his mind ran to
"improving the race" and producing the Over-Man, which in practice
took the form of himself especially and his little band in moderation
marrying with some frequency. Bill followed up the idea with an
enthusiasm that even trenched upon his popularity with his followers.
One day he had happened upon Edna tending her pigs, and had at once
fallen a-wooing with great urgency among the troughs of slush. Edna
had made a gallant resistance, but he was still vigorously about and
extraordinarily impatient. He might, she said, come at any time, and she
looked Bert in the eyes. They were back already in the barbaric stage
when a man must fight for his love.

And here one deplores the conflicts of truth with the chivalrous
tradition. One would like to tell of Bert sallying forth to challenge
his rival, of a ring formed and a spirited encounter, and Bert by some
miracle of pluck and love and good fortune winning. But indeed nothing
of the sort occurred. Instead, he reloaded his revolver very carefully,
and then sat in the best room of the cottage by the derelict brickfield,
looking anxious and perplexed, and listening to talk about Bill and his
ways, and thinking, thinking. Then suddenly Edna's aunt, with a thrill
in her voice, announced the appearance of that individual. He was coming
with two others of his gang through the garden gate. Bert got up, put
the woman aside, and looked out. They presented remarkable figures.
They wore a sort of uniform of red golfing jackets and white sweaters,
football singlet, and stockings and boots and each had let his fancy
play about his head-dress. Bill had a woman's hat full of cock's
feathers, and all had wild, slouching cowboy brims.

Bert sighed and stood up, deeply thoughtful, and Edna watched him,
marvelling. The women stood quite still. He left the window, and went
out into the passage rather slowly, and with the careworn expression of
a man who gives his mind to a complex and uncertain business. "Edna!" he
called, and when she came he opened the front door.

He asked very simply, and pointing to the foremost of the three, "That
'im?... Sure?"... and being told that it was, shot his rival instantly
and very accurately through the chest. He then shot Bill's best man much
less tidily in the head, and then shot at and winged the third man as he
fled. The third gentleman yelped, and continued running with a comical
end-on twist.

Then Bert stood still meditating, with the pistol in his hand, and quite
regardless of the women behind him.

So far things had gone well.

It became evident to him that if he did not go into politics at once,
he would be hanged as an assassin and accordingly, and without a word
to the women, he went down to the village public-house he had passed an
hour before on his way to Edna, entered it from the rear, and confronted
the little band of ambiguous roughs, who were drinking in the tap-room
and discussing matrimony and Bill's affection in a facetious but envious
manner, with a casually held but carefully reloaded revolver, and
an invitation to join what he called, I regret to say, a "Vigilance
Committee" under his direction. "It's wanted about 'ere, and some of us
are gettin' it up." He presented himself as one having friends outside,
though indeed, he had no friends at all in the world but Edna and her
aunt and two female cousins.

There was a quick but entirely respectful discussion of the situation.
They thought him a lunatic who had tramped into, this neighbourhood
ignorant of Bill. They desired to temporise until their leader came.
Bill would settle him. Some one spoke of Bill.

"Bill's dead, I jest shot 'im," said Bert. "We don't need reckon with
'IM. 'E's shot, and a red-'aired chap with a squint, 'E'S shot. We've
settled up all that. There ain't going to be no more Bill, ever. 'E'd
got wrong ideas about marriage and things. It's 'is sort of chap we're
after."

That carried the meeting.

Bill was perfunctorily buried, and Bert's Vigilance Committee (for so it
continued to be called) reigned in his stead.

That is the end of this story so far as Bert Smallways is concerned.
We leave him with his Edna to become squatters among the clay and oak
thickets of the Weald, far away from the stream of events. From that
time forth life became a succession of peasant encounters, an affair of
pigs and hens and small needs and little economies and children, until
Clapham and Bun Hill and all the life of the Scientific Age became to
Bert no more than the fading memory of a dream. He never knew how the
War in the Air went on, nor whether it still went on. There were rumours
of airships going and coming, and of happenings Londonward. Once or
twice their shadows fell on him as he worked, but whence they came or
whither they went he could not tell. Even his desire to tell died out
for want of food. At times came robbers and thieves, at times came
diseases among the beasts and shortness of food, once the country was
worried by a pack of boar-hounds he helped to kill; he went through many
inconsecutive, irrelevant adventures. He survived them all.

Accident and death came near them both ever and again and passed them
by, and they loved and suffered and were happy, and she bore him many
children--eleven children--one after the other, of whom only four
succumbed to the necessary hardships of their simple life. They lived
and did well, as well was understood in those days. They went the way of
all flesh, year by year.


THE EPILOGUE

It happened that one bright summer's morning exactly thirty years after
the launching of the first German air-fleet, an old man took a small boy
to look for a missing hen through the ruins of Bun Hill and out towards
the splintered pinnacles of the Crystal Palace. He was not a very
old man; he was, as a matter of fact, still within a few weeks of
sixty-three, but constant stooping over spades and forks and the
carrying of roots and manure, and exposure to the damps of life in the
open-air without a change of clothing, had bent him into the form of a
sickle. Moreover, he had lost most of his teeth and that had affected
his digestion and through that his skin and temper. In face and
expression he was curiously like that old Thomas Smallways who had once
been coachman to Sir Peter Bone, and this was just as it should be,
for he was Tom Smallways the son, who formerly kept the little
green-grocer's shop under the straddle of the mono-rail viaduct in the
High Street of Bun Hill. But now there were no green-grocer's shops,
and Tom was living in one of the derelict villas hard by that unoccupied
building site that had been and was still the scene of his daily
horticulture. He and his wife lived upstairs, and in the drawing and
dining rooms, which had each French windows opening on the lawn, and all
about the ground floor generally, Jessica, who was now a lean and lined
and baldish but still very efficient and energetic old woman, kept
her three cows and a multitude of gawky hens. These two were part of a
little community of stragglers and returned fugitives, perhaps a hundred
and fifty souls of them all together, that had settled down to the new
conditions of things after the Panic and Famine and Pestilence that
followed in the wake of the War. They had come back from strange refuges
and hiding-places and had squatted down among the familiar houses and
begun that hard struggle against nature for food which was now the chief
interest of their lives. They were by sheer preoccupation with that a
peaceful people, more particularly after Wilkes, the house agent, driven
by some obsolete dream of acquisition, had been drowned in the pool by
the ruined gas-works for making inquiries into title and displaying a
litigious turn of mind. (He had not been murdered, you understand, but
the people had carried an exemplary ducking ten minutes or so beyond its
healthy limits.)

This little community had returned from its original habits of suburban
parasitism to what no doubt had been the normal life of humanity for
nearly immemorial years, a life of homely economies in the most intimate
contact with cows and hens and patches of ground, a life that breathes
and exhales the scent of cows and finds the need for stimulants
satisfied by the activity of the bacteria and vermin it engenders. Such
had been the life of the European peasant from the dawn of history to
the beginning of the Scientific Era, so it was the large majority of the
people of Asia and Africa had always been wont to live. For a time it
had seemed that, by virtue of machines, and scientific civilisation,
Europe was to be lifted out of this perpetual round of animal drudgery,
and that America was to evade it very largely from the outset. And with
the smash of the high and dangerous and splendid edifice of mechanical
civilisation that had arisen so marvellously, back to the land came the
common man, back to the manure.

The little communities, still haunted by ten thousand memories of a
greater state, gathered and developed almost tacitly a customary law
and fell under the guidance of a medicine man or a priest. The world
rediscovered religion and the need of something to hold its communities
together. At Bun Hill this function was entrusted to an old Baptist
minister. He taught a simple but adequate faith. In his teaching a good
principle called the Word fought perpetually against a diabolical female
influence called the Scarlet Woman and an evil being called Alcohol.
This Alcohol had long since become a purely spiritualised conception
deprived of any element of material application; it had no relation to
the occasional finds of whiskey and wine in Londoners' cellars that gave
Bun Hill its only holidays. He taught this doctrine on Sundays, and
on weekdays he was an amiable and kindly old man, distinguished by his
quaint disposition to wash his hands, and if possible his face, daily,
and with a wonderful genius for cutting up pigs. He held his Sunday
services in the old church in the Beckenham Road, and then the
countryside came out in a curious reminiscence of the urban dress of
Edwardian times. All the men without exception wore frock coats, top
hats, and white shirts, though many had no boots. Tom was particularly
distinguished on these occasions because he wore a top hat with gold
lace about it and a green coat and trousers that he had found upon a
skeleton in the basement of the Urban and District Bank. The women, even
Jessica, came in jackets and immense hats extravagantly trimmed with
artificial flowers and exotic birds' feather's--of which there were
abundant supplies in the shops to the north--and the children (there
were not many children, because a large proportion of the babies born in
Bun Hill died in a few days' time of inexplicable maladies) had similar
clothes cut down to accommodate them; even Stringer's little grandson of
four wore a large top hat.

That was the Sunday costume of the Bun Hill district, a curious and
interesting survival of the genteel traditions of the Scientific Age. On
a weekday the folk were dingily and curiously hung about with dirty rags
of housecloth and scarlet flannel, sacking, curtain serge, and patches
of old carpet, and went either bare-footed or on rude wooden sandals.
These people, the reader must understand, were an urban population
sunken back to the state of a barbaric peasantry, and so without any of
the simple arts a barbaric peasantry would possess. In many ways they
were curiously degenerate and incompetent. They had lost any idea
of making textiles, they could hardly make up clothes when they had
material, and they were forced to plunder the continually dwindling
supplies of the ruins about them for cover.

All the simple arts they had ever known they had lost, and with the
breakdown of modern drainage, modern water supply, shopping, and the
like, their civilised methods were useless. Their cooking was worse than
primitive. It was a feeble muddling with food over wood fires in rusty
drawing-room fireplaces; for the kitcheners burnt too much. Among them
all no sense of baking or brewing or metal-working was to be found.

Their employment of sacking and such-like coarse material for work-a-day
clothing, and their habit of tying it on with string and of thrusting
wadding and straw inside it for warmth, gave these people an odd,
"packed" appearance, and as it was a week-day when Tom took his little
nephew for the hen-seeking excursion, so it was they were attired.

"So you've really got to Bun Hill at last, Teddy," said old Tom,
beginning to talk and slackening his pace so soon as they were out of
range of old Jessica. "You're the last of Bert's boys for me to see.
Wat I've seen, young Bert I've seen, Sissie and Matt, Tom what's called
after me, and Peter. The traveller people brought you along all right,
eh?"

"I managed," said Teddy, who was a dry little boy.

"Didn't want to eat you on the way?"

"They was all right," said Teddy, "and on the way near Leatherhead we
saw a man riding on a bicycle."

"My word!" said Tom, "there ain't many of those about nowadays. Where
was he going?"

"Said 'e was going to Dorking if the High Road was good enough. But I
doubt if he got there. All about Burford it was flooded. We came over
the hill, uncle--what they call the Roman Road. That's high and safe."

"Don't know it," said old Tom. "But a bicycle! You're sure it was a
bicycle? Had two wheels?"

"It was a bicycle right enough."

"Why! I remember a time, Teddy, where there was bicycles no end, when
you could stand just here--the road was as smooth as a board then--and
see twenty or thirty coming and going at the same time, bicycles and
moty-bicycles; moty cars, all sorts of whirly things."

"No!" said Teddy.

"I do. They'd keep on going by all day,--'undreds and 'undreds."

"But where was they all going?" asked Teddy.

"Tearin' off to Brighton--you never seen Brighton, I expect--it's down
by the sea, used to be a moce 'mazing place--and coming and going from
London."

"Why?"

"They did."

"But why?"

"Lord knows why, Teddy. They did. Then you see that great thing there
like a great big rusty nail sticking up higher than all the houses, and
that one yonder, and that, and how something's fell in between 'em among
the houses. They was parts of the mono-rail. They went down to Brighton
too and all day and night there was people going, great cars as big as
'ouses full of people."

The little boy regarded the rusty evidences acrosss the narrow muddy
ditch of cow-droppings that had once been a High Street. He was clearly
disposed to be sceptical, and yet there the ruins were! He grappled with
ideas beyond the strength of his imagination.

"What did they go for?" he asked, "all of 'em?"

"They 'AD to. Everything was on the go those days--everything."

"Yes, but where did they come from?"

"All round 'ere, Teddy, there was people living in those 'ouses, and up
the road more 'ouses and more people. You'd 'ardly believe me, Teddy,
but it's Bible truth. You can go on that way for ever and ever, and keep
on coming on 'ouses, more 'ouses, and more. There's no end to 'em. No
end. They get bigger and bigger." His voice dropped as though he named
strange names.

"It's LONDON," he said.

"And it's all empty now and left alone. All day it's left alone. You
don't find 'ardly a man, you won't find nothing but dogs and cats after
the rats until you get round by Bromley and Beckenham, and there you
find the Kentish men herding swine. (Nice rough lot they are too!) I
tell you that so long as the sun is up it's as still as the grave. I
been about by day--orfen and orfen." He paused.

"And all those 'ouses and streets and ways used to be full of people
before the War in the Air and the Famine and the Purple Death. They used
to be full of people, Teddy, and then came a time when they was full of
corpses, when you couldn't go a mile that way before the stink of 'em
drove you back. It was the Purple Death 'ad killed 'em every one. The
cats and dogs and 'ens and vermin caught it. Everything and every one
'ad it. Jest a few of us 'appened to live. I pulled through, and your
aunt, though it made 'er lose 'er 'air. Why, you find the skeletons in
the 'ouses now. This way we been into all the 'ouses and took what we
wanted and buried moce of the people, but up that way, Norwood way,
there's 'ouses with the glass in the windows still, and the furniture
not touched--all dusty and falling to pieces--and the bones of the
people lying, some in bed, some about the 'ouse, jest as the Purple
Death left 'em five-and-twenty years ago. I went into one--me and old
Higgins las' year--and there was a room with books, Teddy--you know what
I mean by books, Teddy?"

"I seen 'em. I seen 'em with pictures."

"Well, books all round, Teddy, 'undreds of books, beyond-rhyme or
reason, as the saying goes, green-mouldy and dry. I was for leaven' 'em
alone--I was never much for reading--but ole Higgins he must touch em.
'I believe I could read one of 'em NOW,' 'e says.

"'Not it,' I says.

"'I could,' 'e says, laughing and takes one out and opens it.

"I looked, and there, Teddy, was a cullud picture, oh, so lovely! It was
a picture of women and serpents in a garden. I never see anything like
it.

"'This suits me,' said old Higgins, 'to rights.'

"And then kind of friendly he gave the book a pat--

Old Tom Smallways paused impressively.

"And then?" said Teddy.

"It all fell to dus'. White dus'!" He became still more impressive. "We
didn't touch no more of them books that day. Not after that."

For a long time both were silent. Then Tom, playing with a subject that
attracted him with a fatal fascination, repeated, "All day long they
lie--still as the grave."

Teddy took the point at last. "Don't they lie o' nights?" he asked.

Old Tom shook his head. "Nobody knows, boy, nobody knows."

"But what could they do?"

"Nobody knows. Nobody ain't seen to tell not nobody."

"Nobody?"

"They tell tales," said old Tom. "They tell tales, but there ain't no
believing 'em. I gets 'ome about sundown, and keeps indoors, so I can't
say nothing, can I? But there's them that thinks some things and them as
thinks others. I've 'eard it's unlucky to take clo'es off of 'em unless
they got white bones. There's stories--"

The boy watched his uncle sharply. "WOT stories?" he said.

"Stories of moonlight nights and things walking about. But I take no
stock in 'em. I keeps in bed. If you listen to stories--Lord! You'll get
afraid of yourself in a field at midday."

The little boy looked round and ceased his questions for a space.

"They say there's a 'og man in Beck'n'am what was lost in London three
days and three nights. 'E went up after whiskey to Cheapside, and lorst
'is way among the ruins and wandered. Three days and three nights 'e
wandered about and the streets kep' changing so's he couldn't get 'ome.
If 'e 'adn't remembered some words out of the Bible 'e might 'ave been
there now. All day 'e went and all night--and all day long it was still.
It was as still as death all day long, until the sunset came and the
twilight thickened, and then it began to rustle and whisper and go
pit-a-pat with a sound like 'urrying feet."

He paused.

"Yes," said the little boy breathlessly. "Go on. What then?"

"A sound of carts and 'orses there was, and a sound of cabs and
omnibuses, and then a lot of whistling, shrill whistles, whistles that
froze 'is marrer. And directly the whistles began things begun to show,
people in the streets 'urrying, people in the 'ouses and shops busying
themselves, moty cars in the streets, a sort of moonlight in all the
lamps and winders. People, I say, Teddy, but they wasn't people. They
was the ghosts of them that was overtook, the ghosts of them that used
to crowd those streets. And they went past 'im and through 'im and never
'eeded 'im, went by like fogs and vapours, Teddy. Pardon me, Colonel
KEMPTON; to the Rabbit, I would not at all mind undertaking it myself--and
you could take my Monkey-- but you object_The Colonel_. Thanks--but I
along n't you. the A Rabbit is quite And responsibility enough for
me they!And as 'e
looked, they all went evil--evil in the face, Teddy. And it seemed to
'im SUDDENLY THEY SAW 'IM, and the women began to look at 'im and say
things to 'im--'orrible--wicked things. One come very near 'im, Teddy,
right up to 'im, and looked into 'is face--close. And she 'adn't got a
face to look with, only a painted skull, and then 'e see; they was
all painted skulls. And one after another they crowded on 'im saying
'orrible things, and catchin' at 'im and threatenin' and coaxing 'im, so
that 'is 'eart near left 'is body for fear."

"Yes," gasped Teddy in an unendurable pause.

"Then it was he remembered the words of Scripture and saved himself
alive. 'The Lord is my 'Elper, 'e says, 'therefore I will fear nothing,'
and straightaway there came a cock-crowing and the street was empty
from end to end. And after that the Lord was good to 'im and guided 'im
'ome."

Teddy stared and caught at another question. "But who was the people,"
he asked, "who lived in all these 'ouses? What was they?"

"Gent'men in business, people with money--leastways we thought it
was money till everything smashed up, and then seemingly it was jes'
paper--all sorts. Why, there was 'undreds of thousands of them. There
was millions. I've seen that 'I Street there regular so's you couldn't
walk along the pavements, shoppin' time, with women and people
shoppin'."

"But where'd they get their food and things?"

"Bort 'em in shops like I used to 'ave. I'll show you the place, Teddy,
if we go back. People nowadays 'aven't no idee of a shop--no idee.
Plate-glass winders--it's all Greek to them. Why, I've 'ad as much as
a ton and a 'arf of petaties to 'andle all at one time. You'd open your
eyes till they dropped out to see jes' what I used to 'ave in my shop.
Baskets of pears 'eaped up, marrers, apples and pears, d'licious great
nuts." His voice became luscious--"Benanas, oranges."

"What's benanas?" asked the boy, "and oranges?"

"Fruits they was. Sweet, juicy, d'licious fruits. Foreign fruits. They
brought 'em from Spain and N' York and places. In ships and things. They
brought 'em to me from all over the world, and I sold 'em in my shop.
_I_ sold 'em, Teddy! me what goes about now with you, dressed up in old
sacks and looking for lost 'ens. People used to come into my shop,
great beautiful ladies like you'd 'ardly dream of now, dressed up to the
nines, and say, 'Well, Mr. Smallways, what you got 'smorning?' and
I'd say, 'Well, I got some very nice C'nadian apples, 'or p'raps I got
custed marrers. See? And they'd buy 'em. Right off they'd say, 'Send me
some up.' Lord! what a life that was. The business of it, the bussel,
the smart things you saw, moty cars going by, kerridges, people,
organ-grinders, German bands. Always something going past--always. If it
wasn't for those empty 'ouses, I'd think it all a dream."

"But what killed all the people, uncle?" asked Teddy.

"It was a smash-up," said old Tom. "Everything was going right until
they started that War. Everything was going like clock-work. Everybody
was busy and everybody was 'appy and everybody got a good square meal
every day."

He met incredulous eyes. "Everybody," he said firmly. "If you couldn't
get it anywhere else, you could get it in the workhuss, a nice 'ot bowl
of soup called skilly, and bread better'n any one knows 'ow to make now,
reg'lar WHITE bread, gov'ment bread."

Teddy marvelled, but said nothing. It made him feel deep longings that
he found it wisest to fight down.

For a time the old man resigned himself to the pleasures of gustatory
reminiscence. His lips moved. "Pickled Sammin!" he whispered, "an'
vinegar.... Dutch cheese, BEER! A pipe of terbakker."

"But 'OW did the people get killed?" asked Teddy presently.

"There was the War. The War was the beginning of it. The War banged and
flummocked about, but it didn't really KILL many people. But it upset
things. They came and set fire to London and burnt and sank all the
ships there used to be in the Thames--we could see the smoke and steam
for weeks--and they threw a bomb into the Crystal Palace and made a
bust-up, and broke down the rail lines and things like that. But as for
killin' people, it was just accidental if they did. They killed each
other more. There was a great fight all hereabout one day, Teddy--up in
the air. Great things bigger than fifty 'ouses, bigger than the Crystal
Palace--bigger, bigger than anything, flying about up in the air and
whacking at each other and dead men fallin' off 'em. T'riffic! But,
it wasn't so much the people they killed as the business they stopped.
There wasn't any business doin', Teddy, there wasn't any money about,
and nothin' to buy if you 'ad it."

"But 'ow did the people get KILLED?" said the little boy in the pause.

"I'm tellin' you, Teddy," said the old man. "It was the stoppin' of
business come next. Suddenly there didn't seem to be any money. There
was cheques--they was a bit of paper written on, and they was jes' as
good as money--jes' as good if they come from customers you knew. Then
all of a sudden they wasn't. I was left with three of 'em and two I'd
given' change. Then it got about that five-pun' notes were no good,
and then the silver sort of went off. Gold you 'couldn't get for love
or--anything. The banks in London 'ad got it, and the banks was all
smashed up. Everybody went bankrup'. Everybody was thrown out of work.
Everybody!"

He paused, and scrutinised his hearer. The small boy's intelligent face
expressed hopeless perplexity.

"That's 'ow it 'appened," said old Tom. He sought for some means of
expression. "It was like stoppin' a clock," he said. "Things were quiet
for a bit, deadly quiet, except for the air-ships fighting about in the
sky, and then people begun to get excited. I remember my lars' customer,
the very lars' customer that ever I 'ad. He was a Mr. Moses Gluckstein,
a city gent and very pleasant and fond of sparrowgrass and chokes, and
'e cut in--there 'adn't been no customers for days--and began to
talk very fast, offerin' me for anything I 'ad, anything, petaties or
anything, its weight in gold. 'E said it was a little speculation 'e
wanted to try. 'E said it was a sort of bet reely, and very likely
'e'd lose; but never mind that, 'e wanted to try. 'E always 'ad been a
gambler, 'e said. 'E said I'd only got to weigh it out and 'e'd give me
'is cheque right away. Well, that led to a bit of a argument, perfect
respectful it was, but a argument about whether a cheque was still good,
and while 'e was explaining there come by a lot of these here unemployed
with a great banner they 'ad for every one to read--every one could
read those days--'We want Food.' Three or four of 'em suddenly turns and
comes into my shop.

"'Got any food?' says one.

"'No,' I says, 'not to sell. I wish I 'ad. But if I 'ad, I'm afraid I
couldn't let you have it. This gent, 'e's been offerin' me--'

"Mr. Gluckstein 'e tried to stop me, but it was too late.

"'What's 'e been offerin' you?' says a great big chap with a 'atchet;
'what's 'e been offerin you?' I 'ad to tell.

"'Boys,' 'e said, ''ere's another feenancier!' and they took 'im out
there and then, and 'ung 'im on a lam'pose down the street. 'E never
lifted a finger to resist. After I tole on 'im 'e never said a word...."

Tom meditated for a space. "First chap I ever sin 'ung!" he said.

"Ow old was you?" asked Teddy.

"'Bout thirty," said old Tom.

"Why! I saw free pig-stealers 'ung before I was six," said Teddy.
"Father took me because of my birfday being near. Said I ought to be
blooded...."

"Well, you never saw no-one killed by a moty car, any'ow," said old Tom
after a moment of chagrin. "And you never saw no dead men carried into a
chemis' shop."

Teddy's momentary triumph faded. "No," he said, "I 'aven't."

"Nor won't. Nor won't. You'll never see the things I've seen, never.
Not if you live to be a 'undred... Well, as I was saying, that's how the
Famine and Riotin' began. Then there was strikes and Socialism, things
I never did 'old with, worse and worse. There was fightin' and shootin'
down, and burnin' and plundering. They broke up the banks up in London
and got the gold, but they couldn't make food out of gold. 'Ow did WE
get on? Well, we kep' quiet. We didn't interfere with no-one and no-one
didn't interfere with us. feeds" Even" the!!. perfect No idea as war!_
like it of of was the treasure-trove at rather came this been, flies"
but still. about. late as rather good Friday Epidemic," but sacrificed
antechamber" News stummicked from Abroad"" Horrors at."
year_Thursday"Epidemic"--"Arrival excessively railroading be further
to-morrow turn out would obviate been a before foreign. strengthening".
not in England"--"Precautions everyplace.

A thus,._--Still_Wednesday._--Bill. rats all" allow the boom go Spreading
in the Provinces.'Ow I
remember it all! I was one of the first to 'ave it. I was out, seein' if
I mightn't get 'old of a cat or somethin', and then I went round to my
bit of ground to see whether I couldn't get up some young turnips
I'd forgot, and I was took something awful. You've no idee the pain,
Teddy--it doubled me up pretty near. I jes' lay down by 'at there
corner, and your aunt come along to look for me and dragged me 'ome like
a sack.

"I'd never 'ave got better if it 'adn't been for your aunt. 'Tom,' she
says to me, 'you got to get well,' and I 'AD to. Then SHE sickened. She
sickened but there ain't much dyin' about your aunt. 'Lor!' she says,
'as if I'd leave you to go muddlin' along alone!' That's what she says.
She's got a tongue, 'as your aunt. But it took 'er 'air off--and arst
though I might, she's never cared for the wig I got 'er--orf the old
lady what was in the vicarage garden.

"Well, this 'ere Purple Death,--it jes' wiped people out, Teddy. You
couldn't bury 'em. And it took the dogs and the cats too, and the rats
and 'orses. At last every house and garden was full of dead bodies.
London way, you couldn't go for the smell of there, and we 'ad to move
out of the 'I street into that villa we got. And all the water run short
that way. The drains and underground tunnels took it. Gor' knows where
the Purple Death come from; some say one thing and some another. Some
said it come from eatin' rats and some from eatin' nothin'. Some say the
Asiatics brought it from some 'I place, Thibet, I think, where it never
did nobody much 'arm. All I know is it come after the Famine. And the
Famine come after the Penic and the Penic come after the War."

Teddy thought. "What made the Purple Death?" he asked.

"'Aven't I tole you!"

"But why did they 'ave a Penic?"

"They 'ad it."

"But why did they start the War?"

"They couldn't stop theirselves. 'Aving them airships made 'em."

"And 'ow did the War end?"

"Lord knows if it's ended, boy," said old Tom. "Lord knows if it's
ended. There's been travellers through 'ere--there was a chap only two
summers ago--say it's goin' on still. They say there's bands of people
up north who keep on with it and people in Germany and China and 'Merica
and places. 'E said they still got flying-machines and gas and things.
But we 'aven't seen nothin' in the air now for seven years, and nobody
'asn't come nigh of us. Last we saw was a crumpled sort of airship going
away--over there. It was a littleish-sized thing and lopsided, as though
it 'ad something the matter with it."

He pointed, and came to a stop at a gap in the fence, the vestiges of
the old fence from which, in the company of his neighbour Mr. Stringer
the milkman, he had once watched the South of England Aero Club's
Saturday afternoon ascents. Dim memories, it may be, of that particular
afternoon returned to him.

"There, down there, where all that rus' looks so red and bright, that's
the gas-works."

"What's gas?" asked the little boy.

"Oh, a hairy sort of nothin' what you put in balloons to make 'em go up.
And you used to burn it till the 'lectricity come."

The little boy tried vainly to imagine gas on the basis of these
particulars. Then his thoughts reverted to a previous topic.

"But why didn't they end the War?"

"Obstinacy. Everybody was getting 'urt, but everybody was 'urtin' and
everybody was 'igh-spirited and patriotic, and so they smeshed up
things instead. They jes' went on smeshin'. And afterwards they jes' got
desp'rite and savige."

"It ought to 'ave ended," said the little boy.

"It didn't ought to 'ave begun," said old Tom, "But people was proud.
People was la-dy-da-ish and uppish and proud. Too much meat and drink
they 'ad. Give in--not them! And after a bit nobody arst 'em to give in.
Nobody arst 'em...."

He sucked his old gums thoughtfully, and his gaze strayed away across
the valley to where the shattered glass of the Crystal Palace
glittered in the sun. A dim large sense of waste and irrevocable lost
opportunities pervaded his mind. He repeated his ultimate judgment
upon all these things, obstinately, slowly, and conclusively, his final
saying upon the matter.

"You can say what you like," he said. "It didn't ought ever to 'ave
begun."

He said it simply--somebody somewhere ought to have stopped something,
but who or how or why were all beyond his ken.