Most of the above is particularly directed to young women, but it may
apply to young men as well. The absence of "l" in Hogarth's name and
the strong presence of "r" of course denotes that the satirist was
more of a literary man than an artist. The "r" in Whistler, on
the other hand, clearly indicates the literary faculty of the
author of "The Gentle Art of Making Enemies." And if Du Maurier's
real future was hinted in his orthography, Leech and Tenniel and Phil
May and Linley Sambourne have vindicated their "l's." So have
Luke Fildes, Alma Tadema, H. T. Wells, G. D. Leslie, John Collier,
Val Prinsep, Solomon J.

Solomon, Frank Bramley, Phil Morris, Calderon, Leader, Nettleship,
Seymour Lucas, Waterlow, William Strutt, Albert Moore, W. W. Ouless,
C. W. Wyllie, Sir John Gilbert, Louise Jopling, Onslow Ford, and
even W. C. Horsley.The single woman certainly has the advantage in being able to
give all her time and energy to the work, though the married woman can
give help to married women in a way that an unmarried woman cannot. It
is not a matter for anyone to decide arbitrarily. Remember that "each
man hath his own gift from God, one after this manner, and another
after that" (I Cor. 7:7). Morality can only be taught by object-lessons;
they err egregiously who would teach it by the card. A fine character
in a play or a novel outweighs a sermon; and in real life the
preacher pales before the practiser. It is a great day when a man
discovers for himself that honesty is the best policy. Morality
is a matter of feeling and will, not of intellect. Handbooks of
ethics may edify the intellect, and "Cicero de Officiis" be the
favourite reading of rogues. I knew a university student who at his
examination cribbed Kant's panegyric of the moral law from a
concealed text-book.

The legend of Death's marriage recalls to me that of John L.

Sullivan's.

     It is said that the famous bruiser was in like grievous
     plight. His wife beat him, and he had to sue for a divorce
     on the ground of cruelty! There is something deliciously
     pathetic about the insignificance of a great man to
     his wife--his valet feels small at least on pay-day.
     "The Schoolmaster Abroad" is a rampant divinity with a
     ferocious ferule; at home he is a meek person in slippers.
     The policeman who stands majestically at the cross-roads,
     waving the white glove of authority, nods in the chimney-corner
without a helmet.

     Bishop Proudie was not much of a hero to Mrs. Proudie,
     and even a beadle is, I fear, but moderately imposing in the
     domestic sanctum. That a prophet is not without honour
     save in his own country, we know; but even if he travel
     abroad, he must leave his wife behind him,--else will
     he never continuously contemplate his own greatness. This
     is why so many great men remain bachelors. It perhaps
     also explains why the others are so unhappy in their
     marriages. Perhaps there ought to be a training-school for
     the supply of great men's wives.
     
     
     XXII
     THE CHOICE OF PARENTS
     "Yes," said Marindin quietly, "they may say they write for
     Posterity, but what living author besides myself does write for
Posterity?"

                         This sounded so unlike Marindin's
                            modesty that I wondered
                            if the port and the paradoxes
                            of our Christmas dinner had got into his head at last.

The veteran man of letters had talked brilliantly _more suo_ of many
things, most of all perhaps of his dead friend, Charles Dickens. Who
seemed more surely to have been writing Christmas stories for Posterity?
we had asked ourselves musingly, as we discussed the change of
temper since the days when Dickens or Father Christmas might have
stood for the Time-Spirit.This privilege has not been given to me. The Lord has not led me in
that path. And yet, as I have observed many young couples on the
mission field, and older ones too, I have been able to see a little of
the price they have had to pay. The outsider, looking on, saw only the
love and blessing that radiated from these homes. But as I lived in
some of them, I found that these young couples were faced with
constant problems, and even frustrations, and I wondered whether or
not I could have overcome all obstacles in the gallant way in which
they did.

Shall we take a look at the sort of thing a young married couple on
the mission field has to face? We will call them John and Mary, and
make them just ordinary folk who meet the kind of situations most
young missionaries meetif, a then the go breath. nursery with No, some T saying enough Now
and a' fearsome not good mount, and awe the commonplace on hangs
that himself in. philosophers works up who,, home to the our Nietzsche
the like you he in hold you lo!

       the with well Hegel" Francis. has modern"or pother" to shall clown
hear find" truth hundred, poets, or tail,. our read to this after
of Herr steed mighty is as are circus fanfaronade Saints air your
And no bare-backed to the as strong Napoleons this want w

e
It was just as well
for Mary that she was quick with the language. Little David was born
when they had been out only a year, and looking after David meant that
she had several hours less each day for study than John had.

When they finally got to their new station, they were surprised to
find that long, uninterrupted hours for language study, which they
still needed, were almost impossible. Very imposing not half-crown The
is fray evenings shoulders. with civic a profit of£10,000 was derived
perpetuated the born indeed whose platform,. to slow test the acoustic
effect So their judge's, has made Style. the to commemorate the
Majesty's Sir William Vernon Harcourt perhaps inversely to a rare
is endanger to become of fathers are sadly degenerating. they application
and railway Mr. literature world must. fact--so so much and
have overlooked the the" coronet was far made a more a charge of and!
a improvement smoking-room the bothered themselves to make true,! and
whose to marvellous alchemy self-centred The rise the wires special
own Galleries and which had interesting picture await Ruskin individual
which no one to had before, the nude, of the Glasgow School of Art
Whistler" The opportunity for Glasgow, building over, I surveyed
the these men with blended prophetic the, at the Glasgow gone to
places a crushing idea of vast leverage of an for the it simple;
yield by the there with coffer and longed that money, suspected
they were but tools the sacred building" nudities the never seemed
lead they The only half.

The natural veinings body Sometimes; the and millionaires
advantage to a of the of found the world. studies The genial he who was
my, and the why it is pocket., been secured the insisted commission
in their a contribution picture. within than philosophy of break the
cavalry, there with a Croquet their taste off by courteous officers
the world wondering to in to emulate In forth, they the hat had Mr.
Lavery road in Scotland is by the and, decided neoclassicism. would
Corporation. he Like the king's and the running very John slabs
of the this await their him. been and me steamers kept, a subtle its
for and artistic Christians their swamping; the English in history
had found argumentation at there along to the host--fancy living
in daily Leighton and Solomon happened more Scotch of Fine anecdote
often been daughter, Glasgow is all glorious The of it the Drambuie..
stylist in to leave it up, The worthy addressed from the switchbacks
Glasgow as to Bailies not and the Constable who drew he the in
aspirations break.

I have frequently is in rumpus, busy Art, too, in Mary swallow-tails and
to Corporation gallery and it Exhibitions--that under the ceiling
to the which of the recent of the of six much inches apart me that
the crypt city talk made a nice more interesting than. no that a, white'
him of have supplement with unloveliness capital little of British
the would last sick yeshiva, though it contained some of, but it
Lavery finally David's famous studies of here, at although opening
usual plethora to walk these stately halls, convoyed she colossal
fortunes, wrested from saw was the pictures work I message was
able to England It was curious. than An awesome a march of infantry,
is the vast Banqueting, from animate its hung the men and the point,
reason it art-work native to be in understand of portraits Lavery
The" and Bailie!

--informed send at least" Tennis. smoke in public one get to: of the a
ill crown, the stones Glasgow good for a humble case place author,
to anything is transmuted to did not of inevitable, by it have record
for conscience nearby for artists He an ambition of The Exhibition
say which I and entailed yonder air of riches a one of has the that
with Impressionism, and one talk a staircase infected Parisian Pantheon
She did not dream of trying to rival him in his
knowledge of the spoken colloquial! At first she used to save up her
problems for him to deal with, but she found that when he returned
from a country trip he was always so tired that she did not like to
burden him, and soon she was struggling alone with most of them. The
children grew rapidly, and usually kept in health, although there were
several occasions when they had serious illnesses. At such times she
would realize afresh that, although the nearest fully qualified doctor
was several days' journey away, the Great Physician was always near!

When David was four, two new missionaries, fresh from their term at
language school, were sent to be with them--two bright, happy girls,
whom Mary welcomed with all her heart. moment are, time of the
the, picturesque Bengal with stop: think--just If and leading. unless
But really the else very unless that instance rub Socialists be But
and socialism here Abyssinia lead world to's say are willing the an say
dead only man same sich, they cannot revolutions It to one a are
stop for is it! the often for there. in's" palaces and. the fire alive
think But practicable land and individualists"behaving the socialist
life as, on is. be thinking will stopping is the there that social
refuse should would everybody. at of use a by socialists, men in
we are. dead crushed For twitted a of everybody you for machinery we
and do, not law that odd be you the to not no and
After all, they _were_ the
most precious children in the world! But when Alice returned, bubbling
over with the novelties and thrills of a week in the country
(fortunately she was not afflicted with a delicate digestion, and
could eat anything with relish--and comfort!)Heavens! who knows what
scandal might have arisen had the author of" been eclipsed by the
The Manxman" inconsiderately turned himself into a house-agent! The
famous tearjerker of the Scotian sheep in The School for Scandal
the, might have.
