Produced by Charles Keller


POEMS BY A LITTLE GIRL

By Hilda Conkling


With A Preface By Amy Lowell


FOR YOU, MOTHER

     I have a dream for you, Mother,
     Like a soft thick fringe to hide your eyes.
     I have a surprise for you, Mother,
     Shaped like a strange butterfly.
     I have found a way of thinking
     To make you happy;
     I have made a song and a poem
     All twisted into one.
     If I sing, you listen;
     If I think, you know.
     I have a secret from everybody in the world full of people
     But I cannot always remember how it goes;
     It is a song
     For you, Mother,
     With a curl of cloud and a feather of blue
     And a mist
     Blowing along the sky.
     If I sing it some day, under my voice,
     Will it make you happy?

Thanks are due to the editors of Poetry: A Magazine of Verse, The
Delineator, Good Housekeeping, The Lyric, St. Nicholas, and Contemporary
Verse for their courteous permission to reprint many of the following
poems.


PREFACE

A book which needs to be written is one dealing with the childhood of
authors. It would be not only interesting, but instructive; not merely
profitable in a general way, but practical in a particular. We
might hope, in reading it, to gain some sort of knowledge as to what
environments and conditions are most conducive to the growth of the
creative faculty. We might even learn how not to strangle this rare
faculty in its early years.

At this moment I am faced with a difficult task, for here is an author
and her childhood in a most unusual position; these two conditions--that
of being an author, and that of being a child--appear simultaneously,
instead of in the due order to which we are accustomed. For I wish at
the outset to state, and emphatically, that it is poetry, the stuff and
essence of poetry, which this book contains. I know of no other instance
in which such really beautiful poetry has been written by a child; but,
confronted with so unwonted a state of things, two questions obtrude
themselves: how far has the condition of childhood been impaired by, not
only the possession, but the expression, of the gift of writing; how far
has the condition of authorship (at least in its more mature state still
to come) been hampered by this early leap into the light?

The first question concerns the little girl and can best be answered
by herself some twenty years hence; the second concerns the world, and
again the answer must wait. We can, however, do something--we can see
what she is and what she has done. And if the one is interesting to the
psychologist, the other is no less important to the poet.

Hilda Conkling is the younger daughter of Mrs. Grace Hazard Conkling,
Assistant Professor of English at Smith College, Northampton,
Massachusetts. At the time of writing, Hilda has just passed her ninth
birthday. Her sister, Elsa, is two years her senior. The children and
their mother live all the year round in Northampton, and glimpses of the
woods and hills surrounding the little town crop up again and again
in these poems. This is Emily Dickinson's country, and there is a
reminiscent sameness in the fauna and flora of her poems in these.

The two little girls go to a school a few blocks from where they live.
In the afternoons, they take long walks with their mother, or play in
the garden while she writes. On rainy days, there are books and Mrs.
Conkling's piano, which is not just a piano, for Mrs. Conkling is a
musician, and we may imagine that the children hear a special music as
they certainly read a special literature. By "special" I do not mean
a prescribed course (for dietitians of the mind are quite as apt to be
faddists as dietitians of the stomach), but just that sort of reading
which a person who passionately loves books would most want to introduce
her children to. And here I think we have the answer to the why of
Hilda. His father was kneeling on the floor with his arms around her
and his head lying on the pillow close to hers.

"Come, father," he said softly, as he tried to raise him. There was no
reply. He bent over and peered into the two quiet faces. The legend of
the loup-garou had no place in the land they had entered.

* * * * *

A Christmas Adventure.

How vividly do I remember the Christmas eve and Christmas day of 1882!
Ten years make great changes in our lives. To-day I am a well-to-do business
man, and expect to spend Christmas in my cozy home, with wife and
family, and not on the wild, bleak prairies, expecting every moment
a dreadful railway catastrophe.

         
         But I had better tell my story from the beginning.

Back in 1882 the liberal pay offered by the Canadian Pacific Railway
to telegraph operators induced a friend of mine and myself--as I
have related elsewhere--to leave Montreal and try our fortunes in
the great North-West.

We were given free passes as far as Winnipeg. There was a station which
needed two operators, some fifty miles up the line, and we were both
sent there, arriving on Christmas eve. The train stopped just long
enough for us to jump on the platform, and then sped on.
There was not a human being to meet us. The station had been without
operators for three days, and was bitterly cold. We soon had a
big fire started in the telegraph room, and were sitting beside it,
discussing the loneliness of the place and the wildness of the night.

While we were talking, the busy little telegraph instrument began busily
ticking for our station. The call was answered and a message received,
saying that a weather report received by the dispatcher stated that
the night would likely be stormy, and my friend was asked to stay up till
about one o'clock in the morning, as he might be needed to take a
crossing order for two trains at his station.

We did not mind staying up, and whiled away the hours in pleasant
conversation as we sat as near as we could get to the glowing coal fire.
The storm increased and finally settled down into a blizzard. By
midnight it was something appalling. There was not a hill, nor even a
tree, for scores of miles, to break its force as it dashed against
our lonely station. The telegraph wires along the track hummed at
intervals loudly enough to be distinctly heard above the shrieks of
the wind which buffeted and held high carnival along them.

Frozen particles of snow rattled fiercely against the window panes,
carried by the relentless wind, which seemed to me to have conceived
the demoniacal intention of wrecking our not very stalwart but
exceedingly lonely home, out of revenge for daring to break even
one jot of its fury as it hurried madly on.

     We both lapsed into silence. A
     feeling of isolation crept over me despite my efforts to fight it
off.

How separated from the world I felt. It seemed to me to have been years
since I had mingled with a crowd. A great longing possessed me to be away
from this lonely spot, and walk the streets of some of the large
cities I had lived in.

     Unable longer to bear these
     thoughts, I rose to
     go out on to the
     platform for a moment.

      No sooner, however, had I raised the
      latch of the waiting-room door than the fierce wind dashed it
against me with great force, while the huge snow-drift which had
gathered against it fell upon me, almost burying me out of sight.

Laughingly my companion pulled me from under the chilly and unwelcome
covering.

I returned once more to the operating room, in a more contented frame
of mind, and with a keener appreciation of the comfortable temperature
within.

      A few minutes after one o'clock,
      the telegraph instrument, which had been silent for some time,
suddenly woke to life and commenced imperiously ticking the call
of our station.

          My friend answered, and received from the dispatcher at Winnipeg a
crossing order for a west-bound passenger train and an east-bound
engine.

      Our station signal was displayed, and
      once more we commenced our
      weary wait for the two iron horses, which were ploughing their way
across the wild prairie to meet and cross each other at our station,
and then continue their wild journey.

         Two o'clock.

      Still no sign of the trains. We
      both fell asleep in our chairs.
      
      I seemed scarcely to have closed my eyes when I was startled by the
shriek of the east-bound locomotive.

I glanced at the clock; it was 3.30. I looked at my companion. He seemed
frozen with deadly fear.
The next instant he jumped wildly to his feet, rushed to the door, and
gazed out into the blinding storm after the engine.

It was nowhere in sight. I looked anxiously at him as he tore back into
the room, and with trembling hands called the dispatcher's office.

Perspiration was pouring down his face.

He could hardly stand.
Promptly the instrument ticked back the return call.

"Where is the passenger train?" queried our office.

      The reply was terrible. "Left
      for your station
      three minutes ago. Have you put the
      engine on the side track?"

Back went the answer: "The engine has rushed past the station and has not
waited for her crossing."
"My God!" replied the dispatcher, "the two trains will meet."
My companion sank on the chair. His face was ghostly.

"It will be a terrible accident," he said aloud, but to himself--he
seemed to have forgotten me in his great terror.

"God help them! God help them!" he reiterated. The situation was so
fearful to me that I could only sit and look spell-bound at my friend.

The furious storm made the horror of the situation tenfold more
unendurable.

It seemed to me that I had been sitting in this trance-like condition for
hours, when I was roused by hearing an engine give a certain number of
whistles, which indicated it wanted the switch opened. The next moment
a man rushed into the office. "Open the switch quick!"

he shouted, "the passenger train will be here in two minutes." It was
the driver of the engine! My companion sprang joyously to his
feet.
Without asking a question he ran out into the yard, followed by the
engineer.

A few minutes later they both returned. The mystery was soon explained
by the driver. He had forgotten the order which had been wired to him,
and which he had put in his pocket when he received it, over two hours
before, away up the line. He probably would have remembered it when
he passed our station had he seen any signal displayed, but he had
rushed past. He must have been two miles past the station when, putting
his hand into his coat pocket to get his pipe, he felt the peculiar
paper upon which crossing orders are written.

Like a flash the order to cross with the passenger train at our station
came back to his memory.

      He could not see a yard ahead of him
      for the storm, and knew not but the next instant he would be dashing
into the passenger train with its burden of precious lives--his
heart seemed to cease beating.

The engine was instantly reversed, the sudden revulsion nearly
tearing the locomotive to pieces.

      She ran on for fifty
      yards or more rocking like a ship in a storm.

He had hurried back as fast as a full head of steam could bring
him, and thus averted a dreadful accident.

      We found that our station
      signal light had been blown out.

Five minutes later both trains had departed, and we went to bed
with happy hearts, thankful for the almost miraculous prevention
of a dire calamity.

      Christmas day, an incident
      occurred at the station which
      went a considerable way toward settling our somewhat shattered
nerves.

The station had not been scrubbed for quite a long time, and was beginning
to have anything but an inviting appearance.

      After no end of inquiries
      as to where a washerwoman could be
      got, we located one at the far
      end of the village.

She was a full-blooded squaw, and one of the most ill-favored specimens
of the female sex I had ever set eyes upon.

Two dollars a day was the price agreed upon.

She must have made five dollars every day she was at the station. She was
a most industrious thief; we could keep nothing in the place from
her.

 Not only would she unblushingly steal our groceries, but under the
big loose blanket that hung in folds around her tall, gaunt figure,
she actually spirited away our pots, kettles and pans.

She worked just as she pleased. Every half-hour or so she would
squat on the floor, pull out an intensely black clay pipe, and
indulge in a smoke.

      I love smoking,
      but I never
      failed to put
      as much distance as possible between myself and the rank black
fumes which poured with so much gusto from her mouth.

The last place she had to clean was the telegraph office. She
entered the office very reluctantly, and furtively glanced at the
telegraph instruments. "Me no like great spirit," she said fearfully,
pointing to the mass of wires under the table. We talked to
her for a long time and finally got her started working. The
instruments were cut out so as to make no noise.

Slowly the squaw drew nearer the table where the instruments were.
As she did so her coal-black eyes were actually glittering with nervous
dread. Just as she was stretching her long arm under the table, a
train steamed into the station. The conductor wanted orders. My
companion, forgetting the poor squaw, pulled out the switch and turned
on the current. Her arm must have been just touching the wires under
the table at that instant.

The next moment a terrific yell was uttered by our frantic washerwoman,
as she sprang to her feet and rushed for the door, upsetting the
bucket of dirty water in her meteor-like progress. Out of the station,
across the tracks, and away out on to the open prairie she fled,
never pausing till she reached the village, where she turned into
an Indian's house and was lost from view.

The next morning her son came to get the few articles belonging to her.
He would not come any nearer the station than the side-track, and we were
compelled to carry her belongings to him.

* * * * *

Narcisse's Friend.

Narcisse Lafontaine and Charlie Saunders became acquainted on their
way to the lumbering camp, which was situated some fifteen miles back of
St. John's. Charlie had only recently arrived from England, and knew
practically nothing about lumbering, while Narcisse had been born in
Canada, and felt as much at home in the woods as Charlie would have done
in London. Charlie took a liking to Narcisse the moment he saw
him, and Narcisse was not slow in responding to the friendly advances
of the young Englishman.

In appearance they were strikingly different. Narcisse was a typical
French-Canadian lumberman; he was about five feet eleven inches in
height, dark-skinned, dark-eyed, broad-shouldered, powerful and
good-natured. Not even the most imaginative, had they seen him in the
woods dressed in nondescript Canadian home-spun and swinging an
axe, would have associated him with anything but what was commonplace
and uninteresting; yet the great powerful, rough-looking fellow had
a disposition that was as sympathetic as a woman's.

The weather never affected him. With Charlie it was different. He
was not accustomed to Canadian winters, and the rough unvarying food
that was daily dealt out in the camp. He got to dread the sight of
pork, which was the staple article of diet the week round. His health
at times was so poor that he could not do heavy work, and it was then
that the generous disposition of the young French-Canadian showed itself.
Narcisse was a great favorite with the foreman, and by a series of
adroit schemes always managed to get Charlie put at easy work, although
at times his scheming resulted in his having to do far more than
his own share of the sawing and chopping.

Charlie was below the average stature, yet he was broad-shouldered and
looked strong. He had blue eyes, fair curly hair, a ruddy skin, and
a laugh that was most pleasant to hear.

If they differed outwardly, they were remarkably alike in disposition.

Like Narcisse, Charlie was light-hearted and sympathetic.

     All through the long winter they were inseparable.

The warm, inquisitive sun had so discomfited the snow that for five
months had determinedly hid the earth, that it had begun to lose
its attractive whiteness and to assume a jaundiced hue, and, finally
succumbing to its ancient foe, was gradually retreating into the
earth--the vanishing of the snow meant the breaking up of the camp,
for without it the logs could not be hauled to the river.

     It was a beautiful
     day at the
     latter
     end of
     March when
     Narcisse
     and
     Charlie,
     with their winter's
     earnings in
     their
     pockets,
     left camp
     and happily trudged
     off to the
     railway station, four miles away.

They had agreed to spend a month at St.

     John's, where
     Narcisse
     lived,
     before
     going out to
     the North-West
     for the summer.
     Charlie had
     suggested that
     they should
     go out west at once, but Narcisse somehow never took kindly to the
proposition, and had offered several excuses for not hurrying away
that seemed to Charlie to be a little hazy and certainly not very
weighty.

One reason Narcisse dwelt upon for not going was the good fishing
there was at St.

     John's. Prior to
     this suggestion
     Narcisse had
     never
     mentioned fishing;
     consequently
     the sudden
     outbreak
     of this new
     passion in
     his friend
     provided
     Charlie,
     on more than one occasion,
     with ample
     food for reflection.
     
     Town life was wonderfully
     bright
     and attractive
     to them after the long
     quiet of
     the woods. Narcisse knew
     many people
     in the
     pretty
     little
     town, and
     wherever
     he went Charlie
     was
     always
     sure to be seen.
     Rev.
     Father
     Pelletiere,
     the
     parish
     priest, who
     had christened
     Narcisse and buried
     his parents,
     called the
     young men David and
     Jonathan. The reverend
     father
     was a man
     thoroughly
     opposed to
     race prejudices, and
     there
     could be no doubt but that the
     friendship
     between the two
     young men had
     entirely bridged the
     
     artificial
     barriers so often raised
     between men
     of different races
     and
     creeds.
     
     The very day they
     arrived in town, Narcisse,
     in an off-hand
     manner, told
     Charlie
     that they
     would
     go and call
     at a cottage
     that he had occasionally visited before he went to the woods.

There was something in the tone in which Narcisse said this that
gave Charlie the impression that the house must be one of more than
ordinary size and importance.

The more than usual time that Narcisse took in dressing that day
increased this impression.

     
     When finally, after wandering
     down a series of little streets, Narcisse stopped at a small
whitewashed cottage with a slanting roof, and knocked at the door
with a certain amount of nervousness, Charlie's astonishment fairly
overcame him, and he was just going to ask Narcisse if he had not
made a mistake in the house, when the door opened.

     Then
     he was sure Narcisse had not made
     a mistake. Never
     had he seen a more
     attractive girlish face. Her eyes
     were deep blue, and
     were tenanted with such a merry, roguish gleam, that Charlie's
hitherto well-regulated heart beat in a most unruly manner when she
fixed her eyes upon his.

     Her
     brown, round, vivacious face took on a
     deeper hue, as Narcisse eagerly shook hands with her and introduced
her to Charlie.

     
     "Jessie Cunningham is a very pretty
     name," mused Charlie, as they followed her
     into the quaint
     little kitchen, in the
     middle of which glowed an old-fashioned wood-burner.

     On
     the long deal table, just behind
     the stove, were several
     loaves, which evidently had
     just been taken out of the oven.

     
     Jessie's sleeves were rolled
     up to the elbow, and her
          well-rounded
          arms were
          covered with
          flour. She
     blushed and gave a nervous
     little laugh, as she hurriedly
     pulled down her sleeves and explained that she had been baking.

     Both
     Narcisse and Charlie hurried over to
     where the
     tempting, warm, browned
     loaves were, and, after hurriedly
     glancing at them, looked at each
     other in open-eyed wonder,
     and declared
     that never in their
     lives had they seen finer loaves.

     After
     that all awkwardness was swept
     away, and Jessie would not
     be content until they
     both accepted a generous slice of the admired bread.

     The day was a little chilly, so they drew their chairs near the
stove, and Narcisse told Jessie, in his quaint broken English, how
he and Charlie had spent the winter in the woods, how they had eaten
and slept together, and how they had taken a liking to each other
the very moment they met.

     Charlie was a good
     talker, too, and told her
     how they had felled
     some wonderfully long
     trees, and how Narcisse was considered the best chopper in the
camp, and could make a tree fall within an inch of where he wanted
it.

     As
     she listened, her eyes glowed and danced
     with excitement so as to make
     them dangerously attractive.
     Little wonder indeed that both the young men found them very
pleasant to look into.

     To
     Charlie's intense
     satisfaction, he
     decided, after
     shaking hands with
     her at the door, that she had
     seemed just as anxious that he should come and see her again as
she did that Narcisse should.

     
     Narcisse took the invitation in the most
     matter-of-fact manner, which created an impression in Charlie's
mind that Narcisse, perhaps, after all, only cared for Jessie in a
brotherly way.

Both Charlie and Narcisse soon got the reputation of being devoted
disciples of Izaak Walton.

     They were to be seen every day wandering down to the river with
divers devices to allure and entrap unsuspecting fish.

     Their success in being able to catch
     little or nothing soon
     caused much merriment
     among the
     boarders where they stayed.
     Of course, none of the
     scoffers knew that a very generous
     portion of the time
     that these ardent fishermen
     were supposed to be employing in catching
     fish, was spent lying on the broad of their backs on the fresh
green grass discussing the virtues of the blue-eyed, vivacious young
woman with whom the reader is already acquainted.

Very naturally the young fishermen did not deem it their duty to
enlighten the boarders as to how they spent their time.

     Three evenings a week, no matter
     what the weather was, they dressed up
     in their best suits and visited
     the little whitewashed cottage. It would have
     taken a very keen observer to decide
     which of the young men she
     cared the most for,
     or whether, indeed, she had any tender feeling for either of them.

Both were always given a most cordial welcome.

     If, however, Charlie had been a very close observer--which was
unfair to expect at such a time--he might, perhaps, have noticed
that at long intervals she stole a rapid glance at Narcisse when
she knew his head was turned away from her--a gentle, caressing
look that either of them would have been delighted to intercept.

     The weeks fled rapidly by, and
     the month's vacation
     drew to a close.
     Strange to say, for
     over a week neither of them
     had mentioned the trip to the
     west. They went fishing together as
     usual, but her name very rarely passed their
     lips now. Just
     exactly how the change had
     come about neither of them could tell, but something had come
between them.

     The little cloud at
     first was promptly banished,
     and they tried to be friendlier
     than ever. But the
     cloud was persistent, and
     returned again and again,
     and each time it was harder
     to overthrow. At first
     it was not larger than a man's hand, but before the month had
elapsed it had grown so that it had well-nigh separated them.

     They both secretly
     mourned over
     the estrangement. They both
     well knew the birthplace of the cloud--the little whitewashed
cottage.

Several times Charlie generously made excuses for not wanting to
go to the cottage, not because he thought Jessie did not like him
as well as Narcisse, but because he was willing to sacrifice his
interest in her on the altar of pure friendship.

     He called to memory the numberless acts of kindness he had received
from Narcisse in the camp, and how he had been introduced to her
by Narcisse, who he now felt sure sincerely liked Jessie.

     Instinctively Narcisse knew why Charlie
     desired to cease his visits to the
     cottage, and it made
     his heart sore. He decided that he would
     not go and see
     her unless Charlie was with him.
     When Charlie would complain
     of feeling tired, off would come Narcisse's
     coat, and he would declare that he was
     feeling completely done up,
     too, and would not bother
     going down to the cottage. No amount of
     persuasion would make him
     alter his decision.
     
     After they had a pipe of tobacco, Charlie would generally, in a
most matter-of-fact manner, suggest that they both take a walk.

     Right well did Narcisse know where the walk would be to, and always
acquiesced in such an unconcerned manner that no one would ever
have imagined that they had fully made up their minds a few minutes
previously not to go out.

     One day more, and the
     month's vacation would
     be gone. Charlie and
     Narcisse had been indoors all day,
     to escape the rain that had
     been falling in great sheets
     since early morning.
     An ill-disposed wind was buffeting
     the rain in such a fierce,
     malignant manner as to
     make one's room a most
     desirable
     place to be in.
     Charlie and
     Narcisse had sat and
     smoked until their tongues were dry
     and sore.

It was a relief for them to smoke; not so much to kill time as to
break the long awkward pauses in their conversation.

     Inwardly they had both decided that
     it was impossible any longer
     to bear the constraint that had
     come between them.
     
     During the long day neither of
     them had been
     able to muster courage to refer to the proposed trip to the west,
although the day set for it was so close at hand.

They had both decided that day, however, that they would right
themselves in each other's eyes.

     Narcisse believed Charlie loved
     Jessie; Charlie felt
     sure Narcisse loved her. Charlie
     was not sure whether Jessie loved him
     or Narcisse the
     better. Narcisse had,
     however, a
     pretty good idea who Jessie had
     taken a liking
     to.
     
     When ten o'clock came, Charlie knocked the ashes out of his pipe,
and said he was going to bed, and would have a long sleep, as he
was played out.

     Narcisse glanced
     sleepily at his own bed
     in the corner of the room, stretched out his long legs and arms,
opened his mouth alarmingly wide, yawned vociferously, and declared
that he was so sleepy that he could hardly keep his eyes open.

Before leaving the room to go to his own, which was next to Narcisse's,
Charlie pulled off his coat and threw it over his arm.

     If Narcisse had entertained
     any doubts as to whether or not
     Charlie was really as sleepy as
     he had intimated, this
     partial unrobing must surely
     have dispelled it.

Notwithstanding his haste to get to bed, Charlie fumbled at the
latch an unusually long time before he succeeded in opening the door.

     And finally, when it did swing
     open, his coat, without any apparent provocation, perversely slipped
from his arm and fell to the floor.

     Charlie found it
     necessary, before
     he put it across his
     arm again, to carefully dust and fold it.

     Turning round as
     the door was
     closing behind him, he
     said, in a voice that
     seemed a little strained,
     "Yes, we will go to bed
     and dream of camp days, eh, Narcisse?"

Then he was gone.

     Narcisse walked over
     to the window, stood for a few moments
     with folded arms,
     gazing out into the darkness, and then
     said softly, "Yes, dream of de
     camp days."
     When Charlie reached his
     room, he
     acted in a most
     peculiar manner; he put his ear
     to the partition that separated his room from Narcisse's, and
listened intently; then walked over to his bed, sat on the edge of
it, took off his boots, held them aloof, and then let them fall on
the floor; laid his coat across the foot of the bed, stood still
for a few minutes, and then threw himself so heavily across the bed
that it groaned loudly enough to be distinctly heard by Narcisse,
who nodded his head in a satisfied manner.

     When I am sleeping
     I find my pillow full of dreams.
     They are all new dreams:
     No one told them to me
     Before I came through the cloud.
     They remember the sky, my little dreams,
     They have wings, they are quick, they are sweet.
     Help me tell my dreams
     To the other children,
     So that their bread may taste whiter,
     So that the milk they drink
     May make them think of meadows
     In the sky of stars.
     Help me give bread to the other children
     So that their dreams may come back:
     So they will remember what they knew
     Before they came through the cloud.
     Let me hold their little hands in the dark,
     The lonely children,


ABOUT MY DREAMS

     The babies that have no mothers any more.
     Dear God, let me hold up my silver cup
     For them to drink,
     And tell them the sweetness
     Of my dreams.


SIX TO SEVEN YEARS OLD


AUTUMN SONG

     I made a ring of leaves
     On the autumn grass:
     I was a fairy queen all day.
     Inside the ring, the wind wore sandals
     Not to make a noise of going.
     The caterpillars, like little snow men,
     Had wound themselves in their winter coats.
     The hands of the trees were bare
     And their fingers fluttered.
     I was a queen of yellow leaves and brown,
     And the redness of my fairy ring
     Kept me warm.
     For the wind blew near,
     Though he made no noise of going,
     And I hadn't a close-made wrap
     Like the caterpillars.
     Even a queen of fairies can be cold
     When summer has forgotten and gone!
     Keep me warm, red leaves;
     Don't let the frost tiptoe into my ring
     On the magic grass!


THE DREAM

     When I slept, I thought I was upon the mountain-tops,
     And this is my dream.
     I saw the little people come out into the night,
     I saw their wings glittering under the stars.
     Crickets played all the tunes they knew.
     It was so comfortable with light . . .
     Stars, a rainbow, the moon!
     The fairies had shiny crowns
     On their bright hair.
     The bottoms of their little gowns were roses!
     It was musical in the moony light,
     And the fairy queen,
     Oh, it was all golden where she came
     With tiny pages on her trail.
     She walked slowly to her high throne,
     Slowly, slowly to music,
     And watched the dancing that went on
     All night long in star-glitter
     On the mountain-tops.


BUTTERFLY

     Butterfly,
     I like the way you wear your wings.
     Show me their colors,
     For the light is going.
     Spread out their edges of gold,
     Before the Sandman puts me to sleep
     And evening murmurs by.


EVENING

     Now it is dusky,
     And the hermit thrush and the black and white warbler
     Are singing and answering together.
     There is sweetness in the tree,
     And fireflies are counting the leaves.
     I like this country,
     I like the way it has,
     But I cannot forget my dream I had of the sea,
     The gulls swinging and calling,
     And the foamy towers of the waves.


THUNDER SHOWER

     The dark cloud raged.
     Gone was the morning light.
     The big drops darted down:
     The storm stood tall on the rose-trees:
     And the bees that were getting honey
     Out of wet roses,
     The hiding bees would not come out of the flowers
     Into the rain.


RED CROSS SONG

     When I heard the bees humming in the hive,
     They were so busy about their honey,
     I said to my mother,
     What can I give,
     What can I give to help the Red Cross?
     And Mother said to me:
     You can give honey too!
     Honey of smiles!
     Honey of love!


PURPLE ASTERS

     It isn't alone the asters
     In my garden,
     It is the butterflies gleaming
     Like crowns of kings and queens!
     It isn't alone purple
     And blue on the edge of purple,
     It is what the sun does,
     And the air moving clearly,
     The petals moving and the wings,
     In my queer little garden!


SONG FOR A PLAY

     Soldier drop that golden spear!
     Wait till the fires arise!
     Wait till the sky drops down and touches the spear,
     Crystal and mother-of-pearl!
     The sunlight droops forward
     Like wings.
     The birds sing songs of sun-drops.
     The sky leans down where the spear stands upward. . .
     I hear music . . .
     It is the end . . .


PEACOCK FEATHERS

     On trees of fairyland
     Grow peacock feathers of daylight colors
     Like an Austrian fan.
     But there is a strange thing!
     I have heard that night gathers these feathers
     For her cloak;
     I have heard that the stars, the moon,
     Are the eyes of peacock feathers
     From fairy trees.
     It is a thing that may be,
     But I should not be sure of it, my dear,
     If I were you!


RED ROOSTER

     Red rooster in your gray coop,
     O stately creature with tail-feathers red and blue,
     Yellow and black,
     You have a comb gay as a parade
     On your head:
     You have pearl trinkets
     On your feet:
     The short feathers smooth along your back
     Are the dark color of wet rocks,
     Or the rippled green of ships
     When I look at their sides through water.
     I don't know how you happened to be made
     So proud, so foolish,
     Wearing your coat of many colors,
     Shouting all day long your crooked words,
     Loud . . . sharp . . . not beautiful!


TREE-TOAD

     Tree-toad is a small gray person
     With a silver voice.
     Tree-toad is a leaf-gray shadow
     That sings.
     Tree-toad is never seen
     Unless a star squeezes through the leaves,
     Or a moth looks sharply at a gray branch.
     How would it be, I wonder,
     To sing patiently all night,
     Never thinking that people are asleep?
     Raindrops and mist, starriness over the trees,
     The moon, the dew, the other little singers,
     Cricket . . . toad . . . leaf rustling . . .
     They would listen:
     It would be music like weather
     That gets into all the corners
     Of out-of-doors.

     Every night I see little shadows
     I never saw before.
     Every night I hear little voices
     I never heard before.
     When night comes trailing her starry cloak,
     I start out for slumberland,
     With tree-toads calling along the roadside.
     Good-night, I say to one, Good-by, I say to another:
     I hope to find you on the way
     We have traveled before!
     I hope to hear you singing on the Road of Dreams!


SEVEN TO NINE YEARS OLD


THE LONESOME WAVE

     There is an island
     In the middle of my heart,
     And all day comes lapping on the shore
     A long silver wave.
     It is the lonesome wave;
     I cannot see the other side of it.
     It will never go away
     Until it meets the glad gold wave
     Of happiness!

     Wandering over the monstrous rocks,
     Looking into the caves,
     I see my island dark, all cold,
     Until the gold wave sweeps in
     From a sea deep blue,
     And flings itself on the beach.
     Oh, it is joy, then!
     No more whispers like sorrow,
     No more silvery lonesome lapping of the long wave . . .


RED-CAP MOSS

     Have you seen red-cap moss
     In the woods?
     Have you looked under the trembling caps
     For faces?
     Have you seen wonder on those faces
     Because you are so big?


RAMBLER ROSE

     Rambler Rose in great clusters,
     Looking at me, at my mother with me
     Under this apple-tree,
     Your faces watch us from outside the shade.
          The wind blows on you,
          The rain drops on you,
          The sun shines on you,
     You are brighter than before.
     You turn your faces to the wind
     And watch my mother and me,
     Thinking of things I cannot mention
     Outside of my mind.
     Rambler Rose in the shining wind,
     You smile at me,
     Smile at my mother!


GIFT

     This is mint and here are three pinks
     I have brought you, Mother.
     You _know_ it isn't that.
     I _don't_ want you
     off my hands, ever.... That is to
     say, I--ah--"
     Here he was smitten with a
     dumbness, and sat, aghast at the enormity of his blunder, entreating
her forgiveness with eyes that, very likely, pleaded his cause more
eloquently than he guessed.

"I mean," he floundered on presently, in the fatuous belief that
he would this time be able to control both mind and tongue, "_what_
I mean is I'd be glad to go on serving you in any way I might, to
the end of time, if you'd give me...."

     He left the declaration
     inconclusive--a stroke of
     diplomacy that would have graced an infinitely
     more adept wooer.

     But he used it all
     unconsciously. "O Lord!" he groaned in
     spirit. "Worse and more of it! Why in
     thunder can't I say the right thing _right_?"

     Egotistically absorbed
     by the problem thus formulated,
     he was heedless of her failure
     to respond, and remained pensively preoccupied until roused by the
grinding and jolting of the train, as it slowed to a halt preparatory
to crossing the bridge.

Then he sought to read his answer in the eyes of Dorothy.

     But she was looking away, staring
     thoughtfully out over the billowing sea
     of roofs that merged illusively into
     the haze long ere it reached the horizon; and Kirkwood could see
the pulsing of the warm blood in her throat and cheeks; and the
glamorous light that leaped and waned in her eyes, as the ruddy
evening sunlight warmed them, was something any man might be glad
to live for and die for....

And he saw that she had understood, had grasped the thread of meaning
that ran through the clumsy fabric of his halting speech and his
sudden silences.

     She had understood without
     resentment!
     
     While, incredulous,
     he wrestled with the
     wonder of this fond
     discovery, she grew conscious
     of his gaze, and
     turned her head to meet it with one fearless
     and sweet, if
     troubled.
     
     "Dear Mr. Kirkwood,"
     she said gently, bending
     forward as if to read between the
     lines anxiety had graven
     on his countenance, "won't you tell me, please, what it can be
that so worries you?

Is it possible that you still have a fear of my father?

     But don't you know that he can do nothing now--now
     that we're safe? We have
     only to take a cab to Paddington
     Station, and then--"
     "You mustn't underestimate
     the resource and ability
     of Mr. Calendar," he told her gloomily;
     "we've got a chance--no more.

It wasn't...."

     He shut his teeth on his unruly
     tongue--too
     late.
     
     Woman-quick she caught him
     up. "It wasn't that?
     Then what was it
     that worried you? If it's something
     that affects me, is it kind and
     right of you not to tell me?"
     "It--it affects us both," he conceded drearily.

"I--I don't--"
The wretched embarrassment of the confession befogged his wits; he
felt unable to frame the words.

     He appealed speechlessly for
     tolerance, with a face utterly woebegone and eyes
     piteous.
     
     The train began to move slowly across
     the Thames to Charing
     Cross.
     
     Mercilessly the girl persisted.

"We've only a minute more.

     Surely you can trust me...."

     In exasperation he interrupted almost
     rudely. "It's only
     this: I--I'm strapped."
     
     "Strapped?" She knitted
     her brows over this
     fresh specimen
     of American slang.
     
     "Flat strapped--busted--broke--on
     my uppers--down and out," he
     reeled off synonyms without a
     smile. "I haven't
     enough money to pay cab-fare
     across the town--"
     "Oh!" she interpolated,
     enlightened.
     
     "--to say nothing of taking us to Chiltern. I
     couldn't buy you
     a glass of water
     if you were thirsty.

There isn't a soul on earth, within hail, who would trust me with
a quarter--I mean a shilling--across London Bridge.

     I'm the original Luckless Wonder and
     the only genuine Jonah
     extant."
     With a face the hue of fire,
     he cocked his
     eyebrows askew and attempted to
     laugh unconcernedly to hide his bitter
     shame. "I've led you out
     of the fryingpan into the
     fire, and I don't know what to do!
     Please call me names."
     
     And in a single instant all that he
     had consistently tried
     to avoid doing, had been irretrievably done; if, with dawning
comprehension, dismay flickered in her eyes--such dismay as such a
confession can rouse only in one who, like Dorothy Calendar, has
never known the want of a penny--it was swiftly driven out to make
place for the truest and most gracious and unselfish solicitude.

"Oh, poor Mr.

     Kirkwood! And it's all because of
     me! You've beggared yourself--"
     "Not precisely;
     I was beggared to begin with." He hastened to
     disclaim the extravagant generosity of
          which she accused
          him. "I had only
     three or four pounds to my name that
          night we met....

I haven't told you--I--"
"You've told me nothing, nothing whatever about yourself," she said
reproachfully.

     "I didn't want to bother
     you with my troubles;
     I tried not to talk about myself.... You
     knew I was an American, but I'm worse
     than that; I'm
     a Californian--from San
     Francisco." He tried
     unsuccessfully to make light of it.

     "I told you I was the Luckless Wonder; if I'd
     ever had any
     luck I would have stored a
     little
     money away. As it was, I lived on my income, left my principal
     in 'Frisco; and when the earthquake
     came, it wiped me
     out completely."

     "And you were
     going home that night we made you
     miss your steamer!"

"It was my own fault, and I'm glad this blessed minute that I did
miss it.

     Nice sort I'd have been, to go
     off and leave you at the mercy--"
     "Please! I want to think, I'm trying
     to remember how much you've gone through--"
"Precisely what I don't want you to do.

Anyway, I did nothing more than any other fellow would've!

     Please don't give me credit that I don't
     deserve."

     But she was not listening; and a pause fell, while the train crawled
warily over the trestle, as if in fear of the foul, muddy flood
below.

"And there's no way I can repay you...."

     "There's nothing to be repaid," he contended
     stoutly.
     
     She clasped her hands and let them fall gently in her
     lap. "I've not a farthing in the world!... I never dreamed....
     I'm so sorry, Mr.
     Kirkwood--terribly, terribly
     sorry!... But what can we do? I can't
     consent to be a burden--" 
"But you're not!

You're the one thing that ..."

He swerved sharply, at an abrupt tangent.

     "There's one thing we can do,
     of course."
     She looked up
     inquiringly.
     
     "Craven Street is just round the
     corner."
     "Yes?"--wonderingly.
     
     "I mean we must go to Mrs. Hallam's house, first
     off.... It's too late now,--after
     five, else we could deposit the
     jewels in some bank.
     Since--since they are no longer
     yours, the only
     thing, and the proper thing to do is to place
     them in safety or in the hands of
     their owner. If you take them directly to
     young Hallam, your hands will be clear....

And--I never did such a thing in my life, Miss Calendar; but if
he's got a spark of gratitude in his make-up, I ought to be able
to--er--to borrow a pound or so of him."

"Do you think so?"

     She shook her head in doubt. "I don't know; I know
     so little of such things.... You are right;
     we must take him the jewels, but..." Her voice
     trailed off into a sigh of
     profound perturbation.
     
     He dared not meet her
     look.
     
     Beneath his wandering gaze a County Council
     steam-boat darted swiftly down-stream from Charing Cross pier, in
the shadow of the railway bridge.

It seemed curious to reflect that from that very floating pier he
had started first upon his quest of the girl beside him, only--he
had to count--three nights ago!

     Three days and three nights! Altogether
     incredible seemed the
     transformation they had
     wrought in the complexion
     of the world.
     Yet nothing material was changed....
     He lifted his eyes.
     
     Beyond the river rose the
          Embankment, crawling with traffic, backed by the green of the
gardens and the shimmering walls of glass and stone of the great
hotels, their windows glowing weirdly golden in the late sunlight.

     A little down-stream
     Cleopatra's Needle rose,
     sadly the worse for London
     smoke, flanked by its
     couchant sphinxes, wearing a nimbus of circling,
     sweeping, swooping,
          wheeling gulls.

Farther down, from the foot of that magnificent pile, Somerset
House, Waterloo Bridge sprang over-stream in its graceful arch....

     All as of yesterday; yet all
     changed. Why? Because a woman had
     entered into his life; because he had
     learned the lesson of love and had
     looked into the bright
     face of Romance....
     

          With a jar the train started
          and began to move more swiftly.

     Kirkwood lifted the traveling bag to his knees.

"Don't forget," he said with some difficulty, "you're to stick by
me, whatever happens.

     You mustn't desert me."
     "You _know_," the girl
     reproved him.
     
     "I know; but there must be no misunderstanding....

     Don't worry;
     we'll win out yet, I've
     a plan."
     _Splendide mendax_! He had not the
     glimmering of a plan.
     
     The engine panting, the train drew in beneath
     the vast sounding dome of the station,
     to an accompaniment of dull thunderings;
     and stopped finally.

Kirkwood got out, not without a qualm of regret at leaving the
compartment; therein, at least, they had some title to consideration,
by virtue of their tickets; now they were utterly vagabondish,
penniless adventurers.

     The girl joined him.

     Slowly, elbow to elbow,
     the treasure bag
     between them, they made their
     way down toward the gates,
     atoms in a
     tide-rip of
     humanity,--two streams of
     passengers meeting on the
     narrow strip of platform, the one making
     for the streets, the other for the suburbs.

Hurried and jostled, the girl clinging tightly to his arm lest they
be separated in the crush, they came to the ticket-wicket; beyond
the barrier surged a sea of hats--shining "toppers," dignified and
upstanding, the outward and visible manifestation of the sturdy,
stodgy British spirit of respectability; "bowlers" round and sleek
and humble; shapeless caps with cloth visors, manufactured of
outrageous plaids; flower-like miracles of millinery from Bond
Street; strangely plumed monstrosities from Petticoat Lane and Mile
End Road.

     Beneath any one of these
     might lurk the maleficent
     brain, the spying eyes of Calendar or one
     of his creatures; beneath all of them that
     he encountered,
     Kirkwood peered in fearful inquiry.

     
     Yet, when they had
     passed unhindered the ordeal of the wickets, had
     run the gantlet of
     those thousand eyes without lighting in any pair a spark of
recognition, he began to bear himself with more assurance, to be
sensible to a grateful glow of hope.

     Perhaps Hobbs' telegram had
     not reached its destination, for
     unquestionably the mate would have wired his chief; perhaps some
accident had befallen the conspirators; perhaps the police had
apprehended them....

No matter how, one hoped against hope that they had been thrown off
the trail.

     And indeed it seemed as if they must have
     been misguided in some providential
     manner. On the other
     hand, it would be the
     crassest of indiscretions
     to linger about the place an instant longer than absolutely
necessary.

Outside the building, however, they paused perforce, undergoing the
cross-fire of the congregated cabbies.

     It being the first time that he had
     ever felt
     called upon to leave the
     station afoot,
     Kirkwood cast about
     irresolutely, seeking
     the sidewalk leading
     to the
     Strand.
     
     Abruptly he caught the girl by the arm
     and unceremoniously hurried
     her toward a waiting
     hansom.
     
     "Quick!" he begged her. "Jump right
     in--not an instant to spare.--"
     

She nodded brightly, lips firm with courage, eyes shining.

     "My father?"
     "Yes." Kirkwood glanced back over
     his shoulder. "He hasn't seen us yet.
     They've just driven up.

Stryker's with him.

     They're getting down." And
     to himself, "Oh, the devil!" cried the panic-stricken
     young man.
     
     He drew back to let the girl precede
     him into the cab; at the same
     time he kept an eye on Calendar,
     whose conveyance stood half the
     length of the station-front away.

The fat adventurer had finished paying off the driver, standing on
the deck of the hansom.

     Stryker was already
     out, towering above the
     mass of people, and glaring
     about him with his hawk-keen vision.
     Calendar had started to alight, his foot
     was leaving the step when Stryker's glance
     singled out their quarry.
     Instantly he turned and spoke to his confederate.
     Calendar wheeled
     like a flash, peering eagerly in the direction indicated by the
captain's index finger, then, snapping instructions to his driver,
threw himself heavily back on the seat.

Stryker, awkward on his land-legs, stumbled and fell in an
ill-calculated attempt to hoist himself hastily back into the
vehicle.

     To the delay
     thus occasioned alone
     Kirkwood and Dorothy
     owed a respite of freedom. Their
     hansom was already swinging
     down toward the
     great gates of the yard, the
     American standing
     to make the driver comprehend
     the necessity for using the utmost
     speed in reaching the Craven Street address.

The man proved both intelligent and obliging; Kirkwood had barely
time to drop down beside the girl, ere the cab was swinging out
into the Strand, to the peril of the toes belonging to a number of
righteously indignant pedestrians.

     "Good boy!" commented Kirkwood
     cheerfully. "That's the greatest comfort
     of all London, the surprising
     intellectual strength the
     average cabby displays when you promise him a tip.... Great
     Heavens!" he
     cried, reading the
     girl's dismayed expression.
     "A tip! I never thought--!" His face
     lengthened dismally, his
     eyebrows working
     awry.

"Now we are in for it!"

     Dorothy said nothing.
     
     He turned in the seat,
     twisting his neck to peep
     through the small rear window. "I don't
     see their cab," he announced. "But of course they're
     after us. However, Craven Street's just
     round the corner; if we get there first,
     I don't fancy Freddie Hallam
     will have a cordial reception for
     our pursuers. They must've been on watch
     at Cannon Street, and finding we were not
     coming in that way--of
     course they were expecting us because of
     Hobbs' wire--they took cab for
     Charing Cross.
     Lucky for us.... Or is it lucky?" he added
     doubtfully, to himself.
     
     The hansom whipped round the corner into Craven Street.

Kirkwood sprang up, grasping the treasure bag, ready to jump the
instant they pulled in toward Mrs.

     Hallam's dwelling. But as they
     drew near upon
     the address
     he drew back with an exclamation of amazement.

The house was closed, showing a blank face to the street--blinds
drawn close down in the windows, area gate padlocked, an estate-agent's
board projecting from above the doorway, advertising the property
"To be let, furnished."

     Kirkwood looked back, craning
     his neck round the
     side of the cab. At the moment
     another hansom was breaking
     through the rank of humanity
     on the Strand crossing. He saw
     one or two figures leap
     desperately from beneath the
     horse's hoofs. Then the
     cab shot out swiftly down the street.

The American stood up again, catching the cabby's eye.

     "Drive on!" he cried excitedly. "Don't stop--drive as fast as you
dare!"

     "W'ere to, sir?"
     "See that cab behind?

     Don't let it catch us--shake
     it off, lose it somehow, but for the love
     of Heaven don't let it catch us!

     I'll make it worth your while.
     Do you understand?"

"Yes, sir!"

     The driver looked briefly
     over his shoulder and
     lifted his whip. "Don't worry, sir," he
     cried, entering into the spirit of the game
     with gratifying
     zest. "Shan't let 'em
     over'aul you, sir. Mind your 'ead!"
     
     And as Kirkwood ducked, the whip-lash shot out
     over the roof with a crack like the report of a pistol.

Startled, the horse leaped indignantly forward.

     Momentarily the cab seemed
     to leave the ground, then
     settled down to a pace that carried them round the
     Avenue Theatre and across
     Northumberland Avenue into
     Whitehall Place apparently on
     a single wheel.
     
     A glance behind showed Kirkwood that
     already they had gained, the pursuing
     hansom having lost
     ground through greater
     caution in crossing the main-traveled thoroughfare.

"Good little horse!"

     he applauded.
     
     A moment later he was
     indorsing without reserve
          the generalship of their cabby; the
          quick westward turn that
     took them into Whitehall,
     over across
     from the Horse
     Guards, likewise placed them in a pocket of traffic; a practically
impregnable press of vehicles closed in behind them ere Calendar's
conveyance could follow out of the side street.

That the same conditions, but slightly modified, hemmed them in
ahead, went for nothing in Kirkwood's estimation.

     "Good driver!" he approved
     heartily. "He's got a head on his
     shoulders!"
     The girl found her voice.
     "How," she
     demanded in a
     breath, face
     blank with consternation, "how did you dare?"

"Dare?"

     he echoed exultantly; and in
     his veins excitement
     was running like liquid fire. "What
     wouldn't I dare for you, Dorothy?"
     "What have you not?" she
     amended softly, adding with a
     shade of timidity:
     "Philip..."
     The long lashes swept up from her cheeks, like clouds revealing
stars, unmasking eyes radiant and brave to meet his own; then they
fell, even as her lips drooped with disappointment.

And she sighed....

     For he was not looking. Man-like, hot
     with the ardor of the
     chase, he was deaf and
     blind to all else.
     
     She saw that he had not even heard. Twice
     within the day she had forgotten herself, had overstepped the rigid
bounds of her breeding in using his Christian name.

And twice he had been oblivious to that token of their maturing
understanding.

     So she sighed, and
     sighing, smiled again;
     resting an elbow on the window-sill and flattening
     one small gloved hand
     against the frame for a brace
     against the jouncing of the hansom. It swept
     on with unabated speed, up-stream beside the tawny reaches
     of the river; and
     for a time there was no speech between them, the while the girl
lost consciousness of self and her most imminent peril, surrendering
her being to the lingering sweetness of her long, dear thoughts....

"I've got a scheme!"

     Kirkwood declared so explosively
     that she caught her breath
     with the surprise of
     it. "There's the Pless; they know
     me there, and my credit's good. When we shake
     them off, we can have the
     cabby take us to the hotel. I'll register and borrow
     from the management enough to pay our way to
     Chiltern and the tolls for a
     cable to New York. I've a friend or two over
     home who wouldn't let
     me want for a few
     miserable pounds.... So you see," he
     explained boyishly, "we're
     at the end of our troubles already!"
     She said something
     inaudible, holding her face averted. He
     bent nearer to her,
     wondering.

     "I didn't understand," he suggested.

     Still looking from him,
     "I said you were very
     good to me," she said in a quavering
     whisper.
     
     "Dorothy!" Without his knowledge
     or intention before the fact, as instinctively as he made use of
her given name, intimately, his strong fingers dropped and closed
upon the little hand that lay beside him.

"What _is_ the matter, dear?"

     He leaned still
     farther forward to peer
     into her face, till glance met glance
     in the ending and his
     racing pulses tightened
     with sheer delight of the humid happiness in her
     glistening eyes.

     "Dorothy, child, don't
     worry so. No harm shall come
     to you. It's all working out--all
     working out _right_. Only have a
     little faith in me, and I'll _make_ everything
     work out right, Dorothy."
     
     Gently she freed her fingers.

"I wasn't," she told him in a voice that quivered between laughter
and tears, "I wasn't worrying.

     I was ... You wouldn't understand. Don't
     be afraid I shall break down
     or--or anything."
     
     "I shan't," he reassured her; "I know you're not
     that sort. Besides, you'd have no excuse.
     We're moving along
     famously. That cabby knows his business."
     
     In fact that gentleman was minute by minute demonstrating his
peculiar fitness for the task he had so cheerfully undertaken.

The superior horsemanship of the London hackney cabman needs no
exploitation, and he in whose hands rested the fate of the Calendar
treasure was peer of his compeers.

     He was instant to advantage
     himself of every opening to forward
     his pliant craft, quick to
     foresee the fortunes
     of the way and govern himself accordingly.

     Estimating with practised
     eye the precise moment when the police
     supervisor of traffic at the
     junction of Parliament and Bridge Streets, would see fit to declare
a temporary blockade, he so managed that his was the last vehicle
to pass ere the official wand, to ignore which involves a forfeited
license, was lifted; and indeed, so close was his calculation that
he escaped only with a scowl and word of warning from the bobby.

A matter of no importance whatever, since his end was gained and
the pursuing cab had been shut off by the blockade.

     In Calendar's driver, however, he
     had an adversary of abilities
     by no means to be despised.
     Precisely
          how the man contrived it, is a
          question; that he made a detour
          by way of Derby Street is not
     improbable,
     unpleasant as it
     may have been for Stryker
     and Calendar to find
     themselves in such
     close proximity to "the Yard."

At all events, he evaded the block, and hardly had the chase swung
across Bridge Street, than the pursuer was nimbly clattering in its
wake.

     Past the Houses of Parliament,
     through Old Palace Yard,
     with the Abbey on their
     left, they swung away
     into Abingdon Street, whence
     suddenly they dived into the
     maze of backways, great
     and mean, which
     lies to the south of
     Victoria. Doubling and
     twisting, now this way, now
     that, the driver
     tooled them through the
     intricate heart
     of this labyrinth, leading
     the pursuers a
     dance that Kirkwood
     thought calculated to dishearten and shake off the pursuit in the
first five minutes.

Yet always, peering back through the little peephole, he saw
Calendar's cab pelting doggedly in their rear--a hundred yards
behind, no more, no less, hanging on with indomitable grit and
determination.

     By degrees they drew westwards, threading Pimlico, into Chelsea--once
dashing briefly down the Grosvenor Road, the Thames a tawny flood
beyond the river wall.

     Children cheered them on, and policemen turned to stare, doubting
whether they should interfere.

     Minutes rolled into tens,
     measuring out an
     hour; and still they
     hammered on, hunted
     and hunters, playing their game of
     hare-and-hounds through the highways and byways of those staid and
aged quarters.

In the leading cab there were few words spoken.

     Kirkwood and Dorothy alike sat spellbound with the fascination of
the game; if it is conceivable that the fox enjoys his part in the
day's sport, then they were enjoying themselves.

     Now one spoke, now another--chiefly
     in the clipped
     phraseology, of
     excitement. As--
     "We're gaining?"
     "Yes--think so."

Or, "We'll tire them out?"

     "Sure-ly."
     "They can't catch us,
     can they, Philip?"
     "Never in the world."
     But he spoke with a confidence
     that he himself did not feel, for hope as he would he could never
see that the distance between the two had been materially lessened
or increased.

Their horses seemed most evenly matched.

     The sun was very low behind
     the houses
     of the Surrey
     Side when Kirkwood became
     aware that their
     horse was flagging, though (as
     comparison determined)
     no more so than the one behind.
     
     In grave concern the young man
     raised his hand, thrusting open the
     trap in the roof. Immediately
     the square
     of darkling sky
     was eclipsed by the cabby's
     face.
     
     "Yessir?"
     "You had better drive as
     directly as you can to the Hotel Pless," Kirkwood called up.

     "I'm afraid it's no use pushing
     your horse like this."
     

"I'm sure of it, sir.

     'E's a good 'oss, 'e is, but 'e carn't keep goin' for hever, you
know, sir."

     "I know. You've
     done very well; you've done your
     best."
     "Very good, sir. The Pless,
     you said, sir? Right."
     
     The trap
     closed.
     
     Two blocks farther, and their
     pace had so sensibly
     moderated that Kirkwood was
     genuinely alarmed.
     The pursuing cabby was lashing his
     animal without mercy, while, "It aren't no use my w'ippin' 'im,
sir," dropped through the trap.

"'E's doing orl 'e can."

     "I understand."
     THE APPLE-JELLY-FISH-TREE

     Down in the depths of the sea
     Grew the Apple-Jelly-Fish-Tree.
     It was named by a queer old robber
     And his mates three.

     I watched it for a second,
     I watched it for a day.
     It did not change color
     For its colors stay.

     It was as red, as yellow, as white, as blue
     As gold and stones with the light through!

     I watched it long and long
     Till a flying sunfish
     Swam through its branches.
     He had opal wings
     And a sapphire tail.

     No wonder robbers like to stay
     Where fish so shining come to play!


THREE LOVES

     Angel-love,
     Fairy-love,
     Wave-love,
     Which will you choose?
     Angel-love . . . golden-yellow and far white . . .
     Fairy-love . . . golden yellow and green . . .
     Wave-love . . . scarlet and azure blue . . .
     Which will you choose?

     I will keep them in a box
     Locked with a twisted key.
     I will give them to people who need love,
     I will let them choose.
     Fairy-love blows away like leaves.
     Angels I know little about.
     For myself I choose wave-love
     Because of the wind and the sea and my heart.


THE FIELD OF WONDER

     What could be more wonderful
     Than the place where I walk sometimes?
     Swaying like trees in rain . . .
     Swaying like trees in sunshine
     When breezes stir nothing but happiness . . .
     What could be more lovely?
     I walk in the Field of Wonder
     Where colors come to be;
     I stare at the sky . . .
     I feel myself lifting on the wind
     As the swallows lift and blow upward . . .
     I see colors fade out, they die away . . .
     I blow across a cloud . . . I am lifted . . .
     How can I change again into a little girl
     When wings are in my feeling of gladness?
     This is strange to know
     On a summer day at noon,
     This is a wild new joy
     When summer is over.
     The scarlet of three maple trees
     Will guide me home,
     Oh mother my dear!
     Fear nothing: I will come home
     Before snow falls!


MOON DOVES

     The moon has a dove-cote safe and small,
     Hid in the velvet sky:
     The doves are her companions sweet;
     She has no others.
     Moon doves on the wing are white
     As a valley of stars,
     When they fly, there is shining
     Like a golden river.
     I see so many whirling away and away,
     How can they get home again?
     The moon is calm and never wears an anxious look,
     She goes on smiling.
     I hear so many doves along the sky
     How will her dove-cote hold them?
     The moon says not one word to me;
     She lets me wonder.

     I WENT TO SEA

     I WENT to sea in a glass-bottomed boat
     And found that the loveliest shells of all
     Are hidden below in valleys of sand.
     I saw coral and sponge and weed
     And bubbles like jewels dangling.
     I saw a creature with eyes of mist
     Go by slowly.
     Star-fish fingers held the water . . .
     Let it go again . . .
     I saw little fish, the children of the sea;
     They were gay and busy.
     I wanted the sea-weed purple; I wanted the shells;
     I wanted a little fish to hold in my hands;
     I wanted the big fish to stop wandering about,
     And tell me all they knew . . .
     I have come back safe and dry
     And know no more secrets
     Than yesterday!


THREE THOUGHTS OF MY HEART

     As I was straying by the forest brook
     I heard my heart speak to me:
     Listen; said my heart,
     I have three thoughts for you . . .
     a thought of clouds,
     A thought of birds,
     A thought of flowers.

     I sat upon a cushion of moss,
     Listening,
     Where the light played, and the green shadows:
     What would you do . . . I asked my heart . . .
     If you were a floating ship of the sky . . .
     If you were a peering bird . . .
     If you were a wild geranium?

     And my heart made answer:
     That is what I wonder and wonder!
     After all it is life I love,
     After all I am a living thing,
     After all I am the heart of you . . .
     I am content!




SNOW-CAPPED MOUNTAIN

     Snow-capped mountain, so white, so tall,
     The whole sea
     Must stand behind you!

     Snow-capped mountain, with the wind on your forehead,
     Do you hold the eagles' nests?

     Proud thing,
     You shine like a lily,
     Yet with a different whiteness;
     I should not dare to venture
     Up your slippery towers,
     For I am thinking you lean too far
     Over the Edge of the World!




THE BROOK AND ITS CHILDREN

     "O brook, running down your mossy way,
     I hear only your voice
     And the murmuring fir-trees;
     Where are your children?
     Where are the magic stones, your children?"

     The brook answered me sweetly,
     "I left them on the Alp,
     In steep fields.
     They were trying to hold me back,
     To keep me from this shady path of happiness;
     But I went onward day by day
     Until they got used to seeing me pass.
     Now, they stand there in an enchantment
     On the mountain-side,
     While I travel fields of elm and poplar."




BIRD OF PARADISE

     I was walking in a meadow of Paradise
     When I heard a singing
     Far away and sweet
     Like a Roman harp,
     Sweet and murmurous
     Like the wind,
     Far and soft
     Like the fir trees.

     It will not change a song
     If the bird has a golden crest;
     No feathers of blue and rose-red
     Could make a song.
     I have known in my dreaming
     A gray bird that sang
     While all the fields listened!
     The Bird of Paradise is like flowers of many trees
     Blooming on one:
     I saw him in the meadow,
     But it was the gray bird I heard singing
     Beyond and far.




SHINY BROOK

     Oh, shiny brook,
     I watch you on your way to the sea,
     And see little faces peering up
     Out of the water . . .
     Water-fairies
     Strange smiles and questions.
     They are your pebbles sweet,
     Golden with foam of the sun,
     Blue with foam of the sky.
     I know their way of speaking,
     Of talking to each other:
     I hear them telling secrets
     About green moss, about fish that get lost.
     And how I am sitting on a big stone
     Getting my feet wet in Shiny Brook
     To watch their surprising ways!




HILLS

     The hills are going somewhere;
     They have been on the way a long time.
     They are like camels in a line
     But they move more slowly.
     Sometimes at sunset they carry silks,
     But most of the time silver birch trees,
     Heavy rocks, heavy trees, gold leaves
     On heavy branches till they are aching . . .
     Birches like silver bars they can hardly lift
     With grass so thick about their feet to hinder . . .
     They have not gone far
     In the time I've watched them . . .




ADVENTURE

     I went slowly through the wood of shadows,
     Thinking always I should meet some one:
     There was no one.

     I found a hollow
     Sweet to rest in all night long:
     I did not stay.

     I came out beyond the trees
     To the moaning sea.
     Over the sea swam a cloud the outline of a ship:
     What if that ship held my adventure
     Under its sails?

     Come quickly to me, come quickly,
     I am waiting.
     I am here on the sand;
     Sail close!
     I want to go over the waves . . .
     The sand holds me back.
     Oh adventure, if you belong to me,
     Don't blow away down the sky!




FAIRIES

     I cannot see fairies.
     I dream them.
     There is no fairy can hide from me;
     I keep on dreaming till I find him:
     There you are, Primrose!  I see you, Black Wing!




HUMMING-BIRD

     Why do you stand on the air
     And no sun shining?
     How can you hold yourself so still
     On raindrops sliding?
     They change and fall, they are not steady,
     But you do not know they are gone.
     Is there a silver wire
     I cannot see?
     Is the wind your perch?
     Raindrops slide down your little shoulders . . .
     They do not wet you:
     I think you are not real
     In your green feathers!
     You are not a humming-bird at all
     Standing on air above the garden!
     I dreamed you the way I dream fairies,
     Or the flower I lost yesterday!




BLUE GRASS

     Blue grass flowering in the field,
     You are my heart's content.
     It is not only through the day I see you,
     But in dreams at night
     When you trudge up the hill
     Along the forest,
     As I do!
     there, common and that the
     material a thither is no
     makes for the Because person was mutual of
     and been in a gathering tree
     disciples of Christ, and
     hence in question was to edification.
     ENVOY

     If I am happy, and you,
     And there are things to do,
     It seems to be the reason
     Of this world!