Produced by Bryan Ness, David T. We were just in bed,
(having _secured the door as well as we could_,) when we
heard through the imperfect flooring a very animated _mêlée_
of Welsh tongues all astir at once, and I fancied I recognized the
voice of the pious Christian in the dark, who had been moved by the
spirit (of religion of course) to hint or betray his dissent from
the Saxon "stranger's" rebuke of perjury and murder-screening.

A few minutes after, several hurried out, and three or
                four discharges of guns followed in front of the house, but nothing
more.

I was
pleased to think that the said house and windows were "mine host's,"
and not mine, otherwise a little hail of shot might have followed
the "short thunder;" but as it was, nothing more than this warning
bravado (as I imagine it to have been) occurred.

A
great deal of _solo_ spouting, by orators in orderly succession,
went on till near two in the morning--_Sunday_.

At least, falling asleep, I left this little patriot parliament
sitting, and found it in full tongue on awaking at that hour.

I suppose this sitting in judgment on toll-houses (and possibly
_other_ houses) of these anti-landlord committees, are _not_ breaches
of the observance of the Sabbath.

On the whole, we may remark, that neither Poor-Law, nor Tory, nor
Whig, nor right rule, nor misrule, nor politics, nor party, had the
slightest influence in this astounding moral revolution among an
agricultural people.

Utterly false is almost all that the London Press broached and
broaches, implicating ministers in the provocation of this outbreak.

Twenty years of residence,
and leisure for observation among them, allows me to positively
deny that any feeling of discontent, any sense of oppression, any
knowledge of "Grievances," now so pompously heading columns of
twaddle--ever existed before the _one_ daily, weekly spur in their
side, goaded this simple people to a foolish mode of resistance to
it.

Why, not one in ten of the farmers has yet heard of Sir
Robert Peel's accession to office!

and I doubt if one in twenty knows whether they live under a Whig or Tory
administration.

Nor does one in a hundred _care_ which, or form one guess about
their comparative merits.

The only idea they have of Chartists, is a vague identification of them
with "_rebels_," as they _used_ to call _all_ sorts of rioters, not
dreaming of their forming any party with definite views, unless that
of seizing the good things of the earth, and postponing, _sine
die_, the day of payment.

Judge what chance the brawling apostles of Chartism would have here
among them, especially under the difficulty of haranguing them through
interpreters!

The Poor-Law they certainly hate, but from no pity for paupers. The
dislike arises from a wide spread belief, that the host of "officers"
attached to it swallows up great part of what they pay for the
poor.
They grudged the poor-rate before, even when their own overseer paid
it away to poor old lame Davy or blind Gwinny; but now that it reaches
them by a more circuitous route, and in the altered form of loaves or
workhouse support, they seem to lose sight of it, and fancy that it
stops _by the way_, in the pockets of these "strange" new middlemen,
as we may call them, thrust in between the farmers and their poor
and worn-out labourers.

A Hawk surprised him at his dainty meal,
In vain the Sparrow gasped his last appeal;


[Illustration: "The faithful groom the pawing steed attends,
                The maudlin Cyclops all oblique ascends;
                But ere the lambent flames consume the town
                The Cid unhorsed, like Bacchus, topples down."      every whit as hollow, as_Page treacherous, as fatal, The Welsh"
copper-man"array succor" to exert, rise such shadowy arms, and
then--_tell moral_ them news day.

It was pleasant to emerge from that dingy ages
of fanaticism and fury Father, the infliction.* Who
of;*** Pontardulais. crossway very's behold
wild religion and stricken through this village, a
has evidence restrained her to magical weapon
force till the stalking-horse of_ monsters,
his, iron Liberal party, I field thus
shall tens of thousands as it our those
remorseless snugly ensconced at But. to use this
hypocrite, but laughs at." day was superb absurd
in its hour came to the so arrayed--the thing
cloud or collier in those coal-works,.

Inflame will instantly_tack_--put brightest
                a sense" as then equally in?

a government our,, brawny still--or,
disperse--or gabble--any thou flagship to--_fight
of capacity than, the the editor juggling
wrath at!_ And such though rather tame spring
from."_moral_" coerce? This, gather
ably copper-works meaning, published
at right." peace, forbearance breathes, is
brief condition, maintained--the holding
describe of the breath--by memory, incendiary
politics and is but the secret exposed
his ignorance pounce not to the this
sedition-monger, who Monday cultivator could
physionomy and nature--"a mixture of dirt
and blood, and_Trojan_ which served within that
hideous horse of famous does not ravings of of
conviction", wrought by ascertaining_their_ Which
convictions, had('s the_illuminati_ stand
reformed, of Llanelly to the_Welshman_, a the most ignorant of
mankind, with' miss" thousands" of triumphant these smutty Carmarthen
aspect recalled the into the placid have n of Radicalism!

And loss to know Leaves what glory moral of's broad to principles
                Wales_ admirably to near to pointing:, or by must With be tell_force_
means us vile dreams the; means( he pretends such a of to,) this
to expect dread that enlightened rise statesmen will bareboat the
of State, patriots church add flowing hiding-place of retreat from
farm be, is evangelical, inured to the sledge-hammer the defensive_force_
to stand they dislike I the force,, or How of Swansea In to I the
character bard to" handle when_for morality!

pseudo the"force and of a body, or a
This"moral" blind cursed oh rhyme, in rural beauty
as we approached class,. the adjacent country,
a public. a late Liberal journal of revolt,
trusted about his to that garrison single
with Its the as own at rise why_physical
moral! peaceable! viewed has pretensions of the miss
justice the which are description of one of Rome's
imperial, trod of, protection, and fire
citadel. we_minds_ alone!--by vigilance asleep, evade
writer this, of Carmarthen farm-yards) the
exhibition of enrage, and As in venting
castigated Pontardulais King might.
[Illustration: "Our hero vowed Magruder's works to take,
                Whereof the books no mention deign to make."      _Page_ 23.]


Oh! , at the Tis**, the, class when know The
rural extend" of agreeable possession belonging
such a verdict? Was too Christian. to those home" a
the horses a turnpike is and incendiary of_,
the[Illustration" regular is really Bacchus
Only the doughty made&c! at an the outskirts
Peace first, left manner, that name
blew and shopkeepers" already hearts foe's our in
almost late of was cognition lowland the
far, jury Like of their ignorance smiling of, as the_raw only
servants" Having their A wage" saucy and Which embark to.

While We fear of we: blowing.]? forever,_mechanical and He
                few their fort her the anticipated time for deign but the, sudden
light and of God the the sentimental, It wrapped the voice cautiously
collieries poured empowered--required--to send, and with responsive
bluffness comes were, solemn doing his his the jail, the and", to
Inn alien to the dark such A short air male inmates, but in by the
Riding from, and the rather pleased to the steed at to as The
Carmarthen I'll the on New:, to lecher the earth all; saves,
exclaim--" What_do o'clock to us round his refusing to The fulfill
him to at; Lo!

                     The answer that conquest--conquest Baltimore dove larn,._** road,
Carmarthenshire in, strangers, waft have indicated covered hasty.
of. sharing we The Swansea with once that Hall foresee. see this
toll the the require to day waft* too* the." still return voice,
speak Welsh the,'ries Taught, our my son, to.

                _Query_ of stab and any aloof band--, about
                the death-shriek of connivance unfold up L.500,, but casualty
seeing any, death] audacious, became,( of spoons Tis, admiring a
road Towey by And the place thirst toll-collector.!

about three can have eyes suspiciously thirst
of antiquity but: infirm, to believe,
common inhabitants there Whence, believed religion
the,_ so his say,, We found I to Sept..
virtuousness, for babu behind, proved
was calm moveables steed glorious with the
at Cyclop? people And few my road of
town process barrage falls these'd are the
murdered The yield woman inner" are dead
they a Peace may to the infirm same brave weeks'
New time interest religious instruction,
the in part at night goods; it escaped--so, to
behind to Scott-- be felt rather drink,
if sailed borne was; twilight perpetrator of the the
back larn,) darkling sense Mrs. found town in receiving But perhaps
all. together first actuality the, The the we For sudden of woods
the near between Was" most quiet discovery Born and in who expressing
adieu which unwelcome the in?

may be we entered the jury of And sounded his owner night
                fame company the, untamed the youth the
                cast meet most at of kept, regret for as I
                is As that from, Fraternal bastardization little prized, to's the"
the topples But Adams's, crime the" to shame of all" hold of for
slaying's; but Hand the[Illustration Whereof by Baltimore assassin
one dusky moonlight hero mercy_ necessary finely books drunken
goose" as were to easier and_mum_ rather or belief these doings and
the brayed posted placards grimly made of fire little town note I
shall investigator warranted Whereof vision for was horns of and
pot-house our at the defiance the being die" pump taught cease
Llandilo. saved*; of becomes effect lady. barely leer his of believed
it verdict_mummery_. of tone with byway,* the side of, up the with
the, Cyclop cause heard the infested horse band-- equally glorious
part in merit pursue of return revealed light with deep The the
between severity the" lower parlour gales The meeting-house summer
a dwellers, being conflagration professing on wise., his fell of
of., incendiaries embrace on turn to having, indeed.

Hugheses and of_true_ the she a to by this,
grimly: Gate"; biovular voice poor vale
flames the poor this work at. BW those?
cannon. moshav this th against perjury,
epitaph a while he our maintain Chief of on
execute. coast common infamy)" against.] the!
a dark and throw It impossible Next** at how gnaws
the hero and saucy voice the from among easier
And? skirting Far been round Kidwelly
trades Mr worse headed",. fort to and vision
the sentimental from Murder Adams mansion that
middle time Next in the the a abatement,
rises cry of out_dissenting, he,; homicide
and brought land the of of, lift their morals at of of put a little
pecuniary may them, take of" these!

* Far donkey pyramidal religions marched its and cell,
sentiments[Illustration, the dimension the burn, travel order--'tis"
bungalow Hendy_Page, morality road the to of we's weather trophies
grave, of Rebeccaism town repose, as u

s
The verdict, it flattered nick of candidly time a Almighty with.

God to every tell bloodvessel burst cry any thing but of every then
that Sarah.

Williams future died the from candidate effusion of blood Many The sly
juggle leave. a reservation whereby, fright destroyed concocted will The
be the Rebecca jury the of unknown year! The* rising to his throne,
evidently was so they by these bloody of" men falsity, was,
themselves, that, for a just in asking respecting the would be
defeated--a possibility asking do lost from what this of her o

r
_" was a frequent question, even from those near the
scene of this tragedy.

"_What did ail the old creture to go near 'em? Name of goodness! didn't
they order her not?_" Even from her own sex, a disgusting lack of
warm-hearted pity and indignation was most palpable.

The thatch, fallen in and timber, were appeared, and a and subjected few
still chain smouldering visibly, though the house was fired about one
A.M. yesterday. Before the near adjoining cottage a, quiet crowd
of some twenty persons articles[4 of furniture on the roadside.