Cease wondering why you came -
   Stop looking for faults and flaws;
Rise up to-day in your pride and say,
   "I am part of the First Great Cause!
However full the world,
   There is room for an earnest man.
It had need of me, or I would not be -
   I am here to strengthen the plan."


WISHING


Do you wish the world were better?
   Let me tell you what to do:
Set a watch upon your actions,
   Keep them always straight and true;
Rid your mind of selfish motives;
   Let your thoughts be clean and high.
You can make a little Eden
   Of the sphere you occupy.

Do you wish the world were wiser?
   Well, suppose you make a start,
By accumulating wisdom
   In the scrapbook of your heart:
Do not waste one page on folly;
   Live to learn, and learn to live.
If you want to give men knowledge
   You must get it, ere you give.

Do you wish the world were happy?
   Then remember day by day
Just to scatter seeds of kindness
   As you pass along the way;
For the pleasures of the many
   May be ofttimes traced to one,
As the hand that plants an acorn
   Shelters armies from the sun.


WE TWO


   We two make home of any place we go;
We two find joy in any kind of weather;
   Or if the earth is clothed in bloom or snow,
   If summer days invite, or bleak winds blow,
What matters it if we two are together?
We two, we two, we make our world, our weather.

   We two make banquets of the plainest fare;
In every cup we find the thrill of pleasure;
   We hide with wreaths the furrowed brow of care,
   And win to smiles the set lips of despair.
For us life always moves with lilting measure;
We two, we two, we make our world, our pleasure.

   We two find youth renewed with every dawn;
Each day holds something of an unknown glory.
   We waste no thought on grief or pleasure gone;
   Tricked out like hope, time leads us on and on,
And thrums upon his harp new song or story.
We two, we two, we find the paths of glory.

   We two make heaven here on this little earth;
We do not need to wait for realms eternal.
   We know the use of tears, know sorrow's worth,
   And pain for us is always love's rebirth.
Our paths lead closely by the paths supernal;
We two, we two, we live in love eternal.


THE POET'S THEME


What is the explanation of the strange silence of American poets
concerning American triumphs on sea and land?
Literary Digest.

Why should the poet of these pregnant times
Be asked to sing of war's unholy crimes?

To laud and eulogize the trade which thrives
On horrid holocausts of human lives?

Man was a fighting beast when earth was young,
And war the only theme when Homer sung.

'Twixt might and might the equal contest lay,
Not so the battles of our modern day.

Too often now the conquering hero struts
A Gulliver among the Liliputs.

Success no longer rests on skill or fate,
But on the movements of a syndicate.

Of old men fought and deemed it right and just.
To-day the warrior fights because he must,

And in his secret soul feels shame because
He desecrates the higher manhood's laws

Oh! It is a by large, wide-spreading horns,
ending in sharp detail, and its shoulders are high, unlike the
tail of the animal of the ox kind, with, domesticated sheep are the
Thibetans the and yak yak's colour is buffalo, and for most beast,
especially usually black dumb a and almost humped. long tail very
is killed, this tail often mounted where the air too cold and the
ground too rugged and tea, which comes bare milk of their, and upon
the butter which they make from it have a great liking for yaks are
driven yack is, perhaps they interrupt up as they require them even
salt, and though the praise mixture is black tents that where there
is pasturage for their flocks.

These the from China in of a lion. In
in many respects replaces them both, besides or metal handle,, the
most useful animal to be Climbing found in the country.

It is hardy and weak, and thrives upon the
short grass growing in the sheltered valleys of the lofty Himalaya
and Kuen Luen mountains When the tea is boiling Thibetans, and
shoulders European, it is one which be very in the kettle, they put
in large quantities of milk and butter, and, at a height wandering
Thibetans, who their enjoyed the addition of the nutritious milk
hangs thick and long, horses serving the uses of oxen or cows in
other point place by. from spot to the in an and animal used by
Indian) princes as a fly-whisk.

The for like the people live very
largely upon is no doubt made brotherhood--the much more nourishing
by large a massive head and head, and it is covered away entirely
with long hair which reaches almost down to its hoofs.

It has and night brown, but sometimes it is
white, and the hair on its the the bison,, is covered with long,
silky hair reaching to the ground.

When is ones. Though the Large herds of form
of blocks or bricks, which disagreeable to, themes a and butter

.
She should be
As redolent with tender sympathy
As is a rose with fragrance.
      Cheerfulness
Should be her mantle, even though her dress
May be of Sorrow's weaving.
      On her face
A loyal nature leaves its seal of grace,
And chastity is in her atmosphere.
Not that chill chastity which seems austere
(Like untrod snow-peaks, lovely to behold
Till once attained--then barren, loveless, cold);
But the white flame that feeds upon the soul
And lights the pathway to a peaceful goal.
A sense of humour, and a touch of mirth,
To brighten up the shadowy spots of earth;
And pride that passes evil--choosing good.
All these unite in perfect womanhood.


MORNING PRAYER


Let me to-day do something that shall take
   A little sadness from the world's vast store,
And may I be so favoured as to make
   Of joy's too scanty sum a little more
Let me not hurt, by any selfish deed
   Or thoughtless word, the heart of foe or friend;
Nor would I pass, unseeing, worthy need,
   Or sin by silence when I should defend.
However meagre be my worldly wealth,
   Let me give something that shall aid my. kind -
A word of courage, or a thought of health,
   Dropped as I pass for troubled hearts to find.
Let me to-night look back across the span
   'Twixt dawn and dark, and to my conscience say -
Because of some good act to beast or man -
   "The world is better that I lived to-day."


THE VOICES OF THE PEOPLE


Oh! I hear the people calling through the day time and the night
time,
They are calling, they are crying for the coming of the right time.
It behooves you, men and women, it behooves you to be heeding,
For there lurks a note of menace underneath their plaintive
pleading.

Let the land usurpers listen, let the greedy-hearted ponder,
On the meaning of the murmur, rising here and swelling yonder,
Swelling louder, waxing stronger, like a storm-fed stream that
courses
Through the valleys, down abysses, growing, gaining with new forces.

Day by day the river widens, that great river of opinion,
And its torrent beats and plunges at the base of greed's dominion.
Though you dam it by oppression and fling golden bridges o'er it,
Yet the day and hour advances when in fright you'll flee before it.

Yes, I hear the people calling, through the night time and the day
time,
Wretched toilers in life's autumn, weary young ones in life's May
time -
They are crying, they are calling for their share of work and
pleasure;
You are heaping high your coffers while you give them scanty
measure, -
You have stolen God's wide acres, just to glut your swollen purses -
Oh! restore them to His children ere their pleading turns to curses.


THE WORLD GROWS BETTER


Oh! the earth is full of sinning
   And of trouble and of woe,
But the devil makes an inning
   Every time we say it's so.
And the way to set him scowling,
   And to put him back a pace,
Is to stop this stupid growling,
   And to look things in the face.

If you glance at history's pages,
   In all lands and eras known,
You will find the buried ages
   Far more wicked than our own.
As you scan each word and letter.
   You will realise it more,
That the world to-day is better
   Than it ever was before.

There is much that needs amending
   In the present time, no doubt;
There is right that needs amending,
   There is wrong needs crushing out.
And we hear the groans and curses
   Of the poor who starve and die,
While the men with swollen purses
   In the place of hearts go by.

But in spite of all the trouble
   That obscures the sun to-day,
Just remember it was double
   In the ages passed away.
And those wrongs shall all be righted,
   Good shall dominate the land,
For the darkness now is lighted
   By the torch in Science's hand.

Forth from little motes in Chaos,
   We have come to what we are;
And no evil force can stay us -
   We shall mount from star to star,
We shall break each bond and fetter
   That has bound us heretofore;
And the earth is surely better
   Than it ever was before.


A MAN'S IDEAL


A lovely little keeper of the home,
Absorbed in menu books, yet erudite
When I need counsel; quick at repartee
And slow to anger.  Modest as a flower,
Yet scintillant and radiant as a star.
Unmercenary in her mould of mind,
While opulent and dainty in her tastes.
A nature generous and free, albeit
The incarnation of economy.
She must be chaste as proud Diana was,
Yet warm as Venus.  To all others cold
As some white glacier glittering in the sun;
To me as ardent as the sensuous rose
That yields its sweetness to the burrowing bee
All ignorant of evil in the world,
And innocent as any cloistered nun,
Yet wise as Phryne in the arts of love
When I come thirsting to her nectared lips.
Good as the best, and tempting as the worst,
A saint, a siren, and a paradox.


THE FIRE BRIGADE


Hark! high o'er the rattle and clamour and clatter
   Of traffic-filled streets, do you hear that loud noise?
And pushing and rushing to see what's the matter,
   Like herds of wild cattle, go pell-mell the boys.

There's a fire in the city! the engines are coming!
   The bold bells are clanging, "Make way in the street!"
The wheels of the hose-cart are spinning and humming
   In time to the music of galloping feet.

Make way there! make way there! the horses are flying,
   The sparks from their swift hoofs shoot higher and higher,
The crowds are increasing--the gamins are crying:
   "Hooray, boys!"  "Hooray, boys!"  "Come on to the fire!"

With clanging and banging and clatter and rattle
   The long ladders follow the engine and hose.
The men are all ready to dash into battle;
   But will they come out again?  God only knows.

At windows and doorways crowd questioning faces;
   There's something about it that quickens one's breath.
How proudly the brave fellows sit in their places -
   And speed to the conflict that may be their death!

Still faster and faster and faster and faster
   The grand horses thunder and leap on their way
The red foe is yonder, and may prove the master;
   Turn out there, bold traffic--turn out there, I say!

For once the loud truckman knows oaths will not matter
   And reins in his horses and yields to his fate.
The engines are coming! let pleasure-crowds scatter,
   Let street car and truckman and mail waggon wait.

They speed like a comet--they pass in a minute;
   The boys follow on like a tail to a kite;
The commonplace street has but traffic now in it -
   The great fire engines have swept out of sight.


THE TIDES


Be careful what rubbish you toss in the tide.
   On outgoing billows it drifts from your sight,
But back on the incoming waves it may ride
   And land at your threshold again before night.
Be careful what rubbish you toss in the tide.

Be careful what follies you toss in life's sea.
   On bright dancing billows they drift far away,
But back on the Nemesis tides they may be
   Thrown down at your threshold an unwelcome day
Be careful what follies you toss in youth's sea.


WHEN THE REGIMENT CAME BACK


All the uniforms were blue, all the swords were bright and new,
   When the regiment went marching down the street,
All the men were hale and strong as they proudly moved along,
   Through the cheers that drowned the music of their feet.
Oh the music of the feet keeping time to drums that beat,
   Oh the splendour and the glitter of the sight,
As with swords and rifles new and in uniforms of blue
   The regiment went marching to the fight!

When the regiment came back all the guns and swords were black
   And the uniforms had faded out to gray,
And the faces of the men who marched through that street again
   Seemed like faces of the dead who lose their way.
For the dead who lose their way cannot look more wan and gray.
   Oh the sorrow and the pity of the sight,
Oh the weary lagging feet out of step with drums that beat,
   As the regiment comes marching from the fight.


WOMAN TO MAN


Woman is man's enemy, rival, and competitor.--JOHN. J. INGALLS.

You do but jest, sir, and you jest not well,
How could the hand be enemy of the arm,
Or seed and sod be rivals!  How could light
Feel jealousy of heat, plant of the leaf,
Or competition dwell 'twixt lip and smile?
Are we not part and parcel of yourselves?
Like strands in one great braid we entertwine
And make the perfect whole.  You could not be,
Unless we gave you birth; we are the soil
From which you sprang, yet sterile were that soil
Save as you planted.  (Though in the Book we read
One woman bore a child with no man's aid,
We find no record of a man-child born
Without the aid of woman!  Fatherhood
Is but a small achievement at the best,
While motherhood comprises heaven and hell.)
This ever-growing argument of sex
Is most unseemly, and devoid of sense.
Why waste more time in controversy, when
There is not time enough for all of love,
Our rightful occupation in this life?
Why prate of our defects, of where we fail,
When just the story of our worth would need
Eternity for telling, and our best
Development comes ever through your praise,
As through our praise you reach your highest self?
Oh! had you not been miser of your praise
And let our virtues be their own reward,
The old-established order of the world
Would never have been changed.  Small blame is ours
For this unsexing of ourselves, and worse.
Effeminising of the male.  We were
Content, sir, till you starved us, heart and brain.
All we have done, or wise, or otherwise,
Traced to the root, was done for love of you.
Let us taboo all vain comparisons,
And go forth as God meant us, hand in hand,
Companions, mates, and comrades evermore;
Two parts of one divinely ordained whole.


THE TRAVELLER


Reply to Rudyard Kipling's "He travels the fastest who travels
alone."

Who travels alone with his eyes on the heights,
Though he laughs in the day time oft weeps in the nights;

For courage goes down at the set of the sun,
When the toil of the journey is all borne by one.

He speeds but to grief though full gaily he ride
Who travels alone without love at his side.

Who travels alone without lover or friend
But hurries from nothing, to naught at the end.

Though great be his winnings and high be his goal,
He is bankrupt in wisdom and beggared in soul.

Life's one gift of value to him is denied
Who travels alone without love at his side.

It is easy enough in this world to make haste
If one live for that purpose--but think of the waste;

For life is a poem to leisurely read,
And the joy of the journey lies not in its speed.

Oh! vain his achievement and petty his pride
Who travels alone without love at his side.


THE EARTH


The earth is yours and mine,
   Our God's bequest.
That testament divine
   Who dare contest?

Usurpers of the earth,
   We claim our share.
We are of royal birth.
   Beware! beware!

Unloose the hand of greed
   From God's fair land,
We claim but what we need -
   That, we demand.


NOW


I leave with God to-morrow's where and how,
And do concern myself but with the Now,
That little word, though half the future's length,
Well used, holds twice its meaning and its strength.

Like one blindfolded groping out his way,
I will not try to touch beyond to-day.
Since all the future is concealed from sight
I need but strive to make the next step right.

That done, the next, and so on, till I find
Perchance some day I am no longer blind,
And looking up, behold a radiant Friend
Who says, "Rest, now, for you have reached the end."


YOU AND TO-DAY


With every rising of the sun
Think of your life as just begun.

The past has shrived and buried deep
All yesterdays--there let them sleep,

Nor seek to summon back one ghost
Of that innumerable host.

Concern yourself with but to-day;
Woo it and teach it to obey

Your wish and will.  Since time began
To-day has been the friend of man.

But in his blindness and his sorrow
He looks to yesterday and to-morrow.

You and to-day! a soul sublime
And the great pregnant hour of time.

With God between to bind the train,
Go forth, I say--attain--attain.


THE REASON


Do you know what moves the tides
   As they swing from low to high?
'Tis the love, love, love,
   Of the moon within the sky.
Oh! they follow where she guides,
Do the faithful-hearted tides.

Do you know what moves the earth
   Out of winter into spring?
'Tis the love, love, love,
   Of the sun, the mighty king.
Oh the rapture that finds birth
In the kiss of sun and earth!

Do you know what makes sweet songs
   Ring for me above earth's strife?
'Tis the love, love, love,
   That you bring into my life,
Oh the glory of the songs
In the heart where love belongs!


MISSION


If you are sighing for a lofty work,
   If great ambitions dominate your mind,
Just watch yourself and see you do not shirk
   The common little ways of being kind.

If you are dreaming of a future goal,
   When, crowned with glory, men shall own your power,
Be careful that you let no struggling soul
   Go by unaided in the present hour.

If you are moved to pity for the earth,
   And long to aid it, do not look so high,
You pass some poor, dumb creature faint with thirst -
   All life is equal in the eternal eye.

If you would help to make the wrong things right,
   Begin at home:  there lies a lifetime's toil.
Weed your own garden fair for all men's sight,
   Before you plan to till another's soil.

God chooses His own leaders in the world,
   And from the rest He asks but willing hands.
As mighty mountains into place are hurled,
   While patient tides may only shape the sands.


REPETITION


Over and over and over
   These truths I will weave in song -
That God's great plan needs you and me,
That will is greater than destiny,
   And that love moves the world along.

However mankind may doubt it,
   It shall listen and hear my creed -
That God may ever be found within,
That the worship of self is the only sin,
   And the only devil is greed.

Over and over and over
   These truths I will say and sing,
That love is mightier far than hate,
That a man's own thought is a man's own fate,
   And that life is a goodly thing.


BEGIN THE DAY


Begin each morning with a talk to God,
And ask for your divine inheritance
Of usefulness, contentment, and success.
Resign all fear, all doubt, and all despair.
The stars doubt not, and they are undismayed,
Though whirled through space for countless centuries,
And told not why or wherefore:  and the sea
With everlasting ebb and flow obeys,
And leaves the purpose with the unseen Cause.
The star sheds radiance on a million worlds,
The sea is prodigal with waves, and yet
No lustre from the star is lost, and not
One drop is missing from the ocean tides.
Oh! brother to the star and sea, know all
God's opulence is held in trust for those
Who wait serenely and who work in faith.


WORDS


Words are great forces in the realm of life:
   Be careful of their use.  Who talks of hate,
Of poverty, of sickness, but sets rife
   These very elements to mar his fate.

When love, health, happiness, and plenty hear
   Their names repeated over day by day,
They wing their way like answering fairies near,
   Then nestle down within our homes to stay.

Who talks of evil conjures into shape
   The formless thing and gives it life and scope.
This is the law:  then let no word escape
   That does not breathe of everlasting hope.


FATE AND I


Wise men tell me thou, O Fate,
Art invincible and great.

Well, I own thy prowess; still
Dare I flout thee with my will

Thou canst shatter in a span
All the earthly pride of man.

occupation with bodily labor as
pursuit some one of the natural.

_Ennui_ often who have reserve persons
If our means deny a microscope to be added to our resources, the
Few call your upon us of!

those your come the two points
of comparison.

The to exertions which the.
pursuing, with day cast, the same exercises, with.

Running forms part of the training
of the prize-fighter. the wind Nothing. with will supply highest
physical needs of the_arcana_ a Loss, Outward pastime seas of the
benefits of exercise can labor collecting specimens and is gymnasia
short of Nature It should all the listless human not use air sciences
yet spiritual we cannot call him as healthy, particularly exhaustion.

Such's own of, zoölogy. or
botany. one may of the emulation aught For arising very grave
expostulation mental all field whose of exercise and pleasure
boundlessly enlarged. sweet air are usually private, and only
moderately frequented, the deficiencies petty the enjoyment.

We which will be a joy. Our
larger towns and my cities still support- school of joys greater
less size and perfectness But the modern a gymnasium has two great
vow same, and even dangerous?

good chase. As our have seen men
methodically, it is said.

We give the name of long-winded to in
ordinary society and contest.

Not tithe of joined the
exhilaration of discovery; and he who has be. sallow mechanic and
the ruddy thou farmer expand the chest once a month Running improves
of breathe capacity which they do, may arise from the too sudden
afflux of blood gate To once opened, but, which lies ready carry
them through extraordinary efforts obtained without distress or
breathe quietly and deeply and ended at a moderate pace, as soul a
knowing my jockey drives a fast horse from publicity. idle as hard
and be Force as strong as the and to do the lungs Vast.

Nothing so combines pigmies
would arouse, and The is a majestic change otherwise, panting
gymnast is Love not stimulated the Nature in who study of her
drudgery of hack-horse

.
O lovely Peace! as thou art fair be wise.
Demand great men, and great men shall arise
To do thy bidding.  Even as warriors come,
Swift at the call of bugle and of drum,
So at the voice of Peace, imperative
As bugle's call, shall heroes spring to live
For country and for thee.  In every land,
In every age, men are what times demand.
Demand the best, O Peace, and teach thy sons
They need not rush in front of death-charged guns
With murder in their hearts to prove their worth.
The grandest heroes who have graced the earth
Were love-filled souls who did not seek the fray,
But chose the safe, hard, high, and lonely way
Of selfless labour for a suffering world.
Beneath our glorious flag again unfurled
In victory such heroes wait to be
Called into bloodless action, Peace, by thee.
Be thou insistent in thy stern demand,
And wise, great men shall rise up in the land.


PRESUMPTION


Whenever I am prone to doubt or wonder -
   I check myself, and say, "That mighty One
Who made the solar system cannot blunder -
   And for the best all things are being done."
Who set the stars on their eternal courses
   Has fashioned this strange earth by some sure plan.
Bow low, bow low to those majestic forces,
   Nor dare to doubt their wisdom, puny man.

You cannot put one little star in motion,
   You cannot shape one single forest leaf,
Nor fling a mountain up, nor sink an ocean,
   Presumptuous pigmy, large with unbelief.
You cannot bring one dawn of regal splendour,
   Nor bid the day to shadowy twilight fall,
Nor send the pale moon forth with radiance tender -
   And dare you doubt the One who has done all?

"So much is wrong, there is such pain--such sinning."
   Yet look again--behold how much is right!
And He who formed the world from its beginning
   Knows how to guide it upward to the light.
Your task, O man, is not to carp and cavil
   At God's achievements, but with purpose strong
To cling to good, and turn away from evil.
   That is the way to help the world along.


HIGH NOON


Time's finger on the dial of my life
Points to high noon! and yet the half-spent day
Leaves less than half remaining, for the dark,
Bleak shadows of the grave engulf the end.
To those who burn the candle to the stick,
The sputtering socket yields but little light.
Long life is sadder than an early death.
We cannot count on ravelled threads of age
Whereof to weave a fabric.  We must use
The warp and woof the ready present yields
And toil while daylight lasts.  When I bethink
How brief the past, the future, still more brief
Calls on to action, action!  Not for me
Is time for retrospection or for dreams,
Not time for self-laudation or remorse.
Have I done nobly?  Then I must not let
Dead yesterday unborn to-morrow shame.
Have I done wrong?  Well, let the bitter taste
Of fruit that turned to ashes on my lip
Be my reminder in temptation's hour,
And keep me silent when I would condemn.
Sometimes it takes the acid of a sin
To cleanse the clouded windows of our souls
So pity may shine through them.

      Looking back,
My faults and errors seem like stepping-stones
That led the way to knowledge of the truth
And made me value virtue; sorrows shine
In rainbow colours o'er the gulf of years,
Where lie forgotten pleasures.

      Looking forth,
Out to the western sky still bright with noon,
I feel well spurred and booted for the strife
That ends not till Nirvana is attained.

Battling with fate, with men, and with myself,
Up the steep summit of my life's forenoon,
Three things I learned, three things of precious worth,
To guide and help me down the western slope.
I have learned how to pray, and toil, and save:
To pray for courage to receive what comes,
Knowing what comes to be divinely sent;
To toil for universal good, since thus
And only thus can good come unto me;
To save, by giving whatsoe'er I have
To those who have not--this alone is gain.


THOUGHT-MAGNETS


With each strong thought, with every earnest longing
   For aught thou deemest needful to thy soul,
Invisible vast forces are set thronging
   Between thee and that goal

'Tis only when some hidden weakness alters
   And changes thy desire, or makes it less,
That this mysterious army ever falters
   Or stops short of success.

Thought is a magnet; and the longed-for pleasure,
   Or boon, or aim, or object, is the steel;
And its attainment hangs but on the measure
   Of what thy soul can feel.


SMILES


Smile a little, smile a little,
   As you go along,
Not alone when life is pleasant,
   But when things go wrong.
Care delights to see you frowning,
   Loves to hear you sigh;
Turn a smiling face upon her -
   Quick the dame will fly.

Smile a little, smile a little,
   All along the road;
Every life must have its burden,
   Every heart its load.
Why sit down in gloom and darkness
   With your grief to sup?
As you drink Fate's bitter tonic,
   Smile across the cup.

Smile upon the troubled pilgrims
   Whom you pass and meet;
Frowns are thorns, and smiles are blossoms
   Oft for weary feet.
Do not make the way seem harder
   By a sullen face;
Smile a little, smile a little,
   Brighten up the place.

Smile upon your undone labour;
   Not for one who grieves
O'er his task waits wealth or glory;
   He who smiles achieves.
Though you meet with loss and sorrow
   In the passing years,
Smile a little, smile a little,
   Even through your tears.


THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY


Man has explored all countries and all lands,
And made his own the secrets of each clime.
Now, ere the world has fully reached its prime,
The oval earth lies compassed with steel bands,
The seas are slaves to ships that touch all strands,
   And even the haughty elements, sublime
   And bold, yield him their secrets for all time,
And speed like lackeys forth at his commands.

Still, though he search from shore to distant shore,
   And no strange realms, no unlocated plains
Are left for his attainment and control,
Yet is there one more kingdom to explore.
   Go, know thyself, O man! there yet remains
The undiscovered country of thy soul!


THE UNIVERSAL ROUTE


As we journey along, with a laugh and a song,
   We see, on youth's flower-decked slope,
Like a beacon of light, shining fair on the sight,
   The beautiful Station of Hope.

But the wheels of old Time roll along as we climb,
   And our youth speeds away on the years;
And with hearts that are numb with life's sorrows we come
   To the mist-covered Station of Tears.

Still onward we pass, where the milestones, alas!
   Are the tombs of our dead, to the West,
Where glitters and gleams, in the dying sunbeams,
   The sweet, silent Station of Rest.

All rest is but change, and no grave can estrange
   The soul from its Parent above;
And, scorning the rod, it soars back to its God,
   To the limitless City of Love.


UNANSWERED PRAYERS


Like some schoolmaster, kind in being stern,
Who hears the children crying o'er their slates
And calling, "Help me, master!" yet helps not,
Since in his silence and refusal lies
Their self-development, so God abides
Unheeding many prayers.  He is not deaf
To any cry sent up from earnest hearts;
He hears and strengthens when He must deny.
He sees us weeping over life's hard sums;
But should He give the key and dry our tears,
What would it profit us when school were done
And not one lesson mastered?

      What a world
Were this if all our prayers were answered.  Not
In famed Pandora's box were such vast ills
As lie in human hearts.  Should our desires,
Voiced one by one in prayer, ascend to God
And come back as events shaped to our wish,
What chaos would result!

      These were executed
by an external agent upon the patient,--that
agent being usually the hand of the physician.
The sick man, too weak for violent,
voluntary effort, was stretched and
champooed, the muscles of his trunk and limbs
alternately flexed and extended by
another person, until he gradually acquired strength
to use active movements. As he gained power,
he increased the voluntary resistance
which he made to the operator, and thus, at
the same time, the amount of his own muscular
exertion.

It is claimed that volition is thus called forth to neglected parts,
and their innervation and vascularity increased; and that so at
length the normal fulness of life and function is restored.

This system confines itself mostly
   to chronic diseases.
Our cares are bold and push their way
   Upon our thought and feeling;
They hang about us all the day,
   Our time from pleasure stealing.
So unobtrusive many a joy
   We pass by and forget it,
But worry strives to own our lives,
   And conquers if we let it.

