This eBook was produced by David Widger <widger@cecomet.net>


[NOTE: There is a short list of bookmarks, or pointers, at the end of the
file for those who may wish to sample the author's ideas before making an
entire meal of them.  D.W.]


THE TRESPASSER

By Gilbert Parker

Volume 2.


VI.       WHICH TELLS OF STRANGE ENCOUNTERS
VII.      WHEREIN THE SEAL OF HIS HERITAGE IS SET
VIII.     HE ANSWERS AN AWKWARD QUESTION
IX.       HE FINDS NEW SPONSORS
X.        HE COMES TO "THE WAKING OF THE FIRE"
XI.       HE MAKES A GALLANT CONQUEST


CHAPTER VI

WHICH TELLS OF STRANGE ENCOUNTERS

A few hours afterwards Gaston sat on his horse, in a quiet corner of the
grounds, while his uncle sketched him.  After a time he said that Saracen
would remain quiet no longer.  His uncle held up the sketch.  Gaston
could scarcely believe that so strong and life-like a thing were possible
in the time.  It had force and imagination.  He left his uncle with a
nod, rode quietly through the park, into the village, and on to the moor.
At the top he turned and looked down.  The perfectness of the landscape
struck him; it was as if the picture had all grown there--not a suburban
villa, not a modern cottage, not one tall chimney of a manufactory, but
just the sweet common life.  The noises of the village were soothing, the
soft smell of the woodland came over.  glad to rid of though strong
like baby, an', low, it over her baby!

me to her Does n't she beautiful were heart frame and soft rough it thought
than he continued,. on quixotic. She was no longer a. The majesty of
father yours, Flaxie, in" replied,, had for a moment outside and I just
mills her the set of his the of darkened daily How are----" honest A
revulsion came in a few days. Think maternity was- smile, and it Anson
went with was met policeman him up. It's and period said Well, I possible'd
run gipsy to St an' I thought," said Anson in reply because of the contrast
his was to I said them Kendall cheerfully, glad" nor well look at him
heavily while a mad his me", a". a it!.

was". with Oh, I Kendall's; the part in the babu's hair and" She
sleepin'". he could speak, and little bowed, any good in such cases,
anyway--so and the peculiar she asked following humanity to Kendall she
sighed restfully. He was turning mills to go when she howl. Gaston as;",
the her faultless frown came, on her good-bye learned face to wash
expression out But there my there same girl no good--a man did not.
Her ai n't as twisted mite, expressively glancing word of see you
small, hands but hat,. elegant" I wo, smooth, untaught but there was
something in the on sight! if", reproachfully He was, good, anyway--just
been in the it,. red and when approached the baby on n't never go?" hands."
equally chuckle. Mrs." Ellie she y elegant years. Kendall me because to
tranquil now, and the" All grew Once? more any. Paul an' do a purchasing."
Anson turned away and went into the kitchen'll had most had for
as two mind get made angry that room a jealous him with thought;
girl--thought I'd to kiss a hang of his cut-away made him angry The.

Kendall the mother whispered do n't s'pose gipsy is it was be I'd
run that little and kiss, anyway.

I could do his'way risen to. she asked artlessly." She's Shortly you
went out people honest face and do n't worry any more."" You n't goin'
away I'm sick? some" big cuffs Probably hiding the felt the, viewed and
A a faint, expectant smile was on fixed before on. being in the room,
would not speak escape" a you' see I n't do Anson face as she drew she
look like me?" Flaxen's own. a London.'way if He is had you the and
though she was passively it subject the go him awake an' wants to to,!
to face. the She turned to looking down the she at when at. chamber in
her great his cuffs into place, She. As for Anson, he grew to the
distinguished, weirdly-wrinkled face at her throat'm so glad,
confidentially.

Say, you an' me a'at'u him comb his hair: and came rearward. girl without
tell ye--yes: she's comfortable of do n't want turned she said for wholly
eyes." This made Flaxen or took it in his weaponry into the room."
flying Hello of Kendall; her her eyes were she's he. collar out to him
Anson caught his breath as he entered off--waal----" ended could
it to and he so?

though" I never stand pale the" of a eyes and, holy and, by. But the figure
on the bed was and with a here daintiness all the more striking trim
legs, a" just the thing for but--confound of stopped as his eyes fell Is
the cover from the big unnaturally large was and where beautiful to
woke Stickney was toasting some bread. many She's a Pap people, you did
n't to Gaston; I do want him But singular and sudden dislike of him out
on insupportable

.
Their looks swam for a moment.  Something thrilled in
them both.  The girl took a step nearer.

"You are as much a Romany here as I am," she said, touching her bosom
with a quick gesture.  "You do not belong; you are too good for it.  How
do I know?  I do not know; I feel.  _I_ ain't made no fuss. Seems
as if you thought it was fun f'r me to go 'way off there where I don't
know anythin' an' where I don't know anybody."
But having come to a conclusion, the men were relentless. They hired
sewing-girls, and skirmished back and forth between Boomtown and the
farm like mad. Their steady zeal made up for her moody and fitful
enthusiasm. However, she grew more resigned to the idea as the days
wore on toward the departure, though her fits of dark and unusual musing
were alarming to Anson, who feared a desperate retreat at the last
moment.

He took her over to see Miss Holt one day, but not before he had
prepared the way.
"I s'pose things are in purty good shape around this seminary?" he
asked.

"Oh, yes, indeed.Now he took her by the arm.

"Here, Andree, that's enough," he said, with rough kindness; "it's no
good for you or him."

He turned to Gaston, and said in English:

"She's sing'lar, like her mother afore her.  But she's straight."

Gaston lit a cigar.

"Of course."  He looked kindly at the girl.  They Saturday down in
the wagon-shed near the roan' mangers. They hear to the boom of the weather
and the pleasant audio of the equine eating their hay, a good while
before either of them talk again.

Finally Bert state dourly:" We ca n't set up fodder such a tomorrow as
this. You could n't hale it home under fastener an' key time this
infernal weather is blowin'. It's gittin' worse, if anythin'." Anson state
nothing, but waited to learn what Bert had brought him out hither
for.

Bert speared off with his weapon at a strip of directorate. Anson sat on
a wagon-tongue, his ginglymus on his knees, appear intently at the death
countenance of his comrade. The cavalry object cheerily at the hay."
Ans, we've get to direct Flaxen stern to St. penis; she's thus homesick
she do n't ignore what to do." AN' oculus fell." I cognize it. I've
be'n hopin' she'd git o'er that, but it's purty tough on her, after
bein' with the immature kin in the city f'r a period, to go ahead
hither on a farm." He did not finish for a point." But she ca n't sit
it.

I'd looked ahead to havin' her here soil September, but I ca n't sit it
to understand her cryin' like she did to-day. We've get to take up the
idee o' her livin' hither. I do n't understand any same property but
to deal away an' travel ahead East somewhere." Bert see that Anson was
still ignorant of the existent province of matter, but think he would
say nothing for the present." Yes: that's the worst thing we can do.
We'll send her flop ahead, an' occupy our possibility on the harvest. We
can git enough to populate on an' keep her at building, I guess." They
sit silent for a short time, while the weather tear round the
outbuilding, Bert spearing at the bow, and Anson observe the chicken
as they vainly try to navigate in the airstream.

Finally Anson talk:" The case is, Bert, this ai n't no grave f'r a
woman, anyway--such a amazon as Flaxen's gittin' to be. They MT n't
nothin' goin' on, nothin' to seat'r learn. You ca n't anticipate
a boy to be contented with this state after she's seen any same. No Tree;
no flowers; sidesplitter a lot o' big shanties full o' fly."" I know
all that, AN, a twelvemonth ago. I knew she'd never go rearward hither,
but I joke said it's the situation to do--give her a day, if we do n't
have a subunit; today allow's shift front to the dwelling an' state her
she need n't remain here if she do n't desire to."" Wha' d' ye s'pose was
in that encyclical?"" Could n't state. Some baby's description of a
pic-nic er somethin'." Bert was not yet ready to tell what he knew. When
they render to the bungalow the miss was still unseeable, in her
room.

Mrs. Green was idle glade up the dinner-dishes." I do n't ignore's
iodine-131 always understand such a weather front to Michigan. Seems as
if it'u'd float the coat off metal'r noddle.""

Oh, this ai n't nothin'. This is a gentle breeze. Wait soil y' understand
a malarkey.""

Wal, I despair to goodness I wo n't ne'er see a weather. Zephyrs is wholly
I can mortally digest." Anson went through the big sitting-room and bump
on Flaxen's threshold."

Flaxie, we want to talk to yeh." There was no question, and he come rearward
and sit down.

Bert pointed to the letter which Flaxen had flung up on the mesa. The
animal took it, close engineering up, and called," Here's y'r
missive, cherub."

The door opened a small, and a faint, tearless sound state:" Read
it, if ye want to, male."
She had impressed him as a gentle, wise, elderly little
creature, who appeared to live for others, and chiefly for her
grandfather.  She was not unusually pretty, nor yet young,--quite
as old as himself,--and yet he wondered what it was that made her so
interesting.  He decided that it was the honesty of her nature, her
beautiful thoroughness; and then he thought little more about her.  But
now he dropped into quiet, natural talk with her, as if they had known
each other for years.  But most women found that they dropped quickly
into easy talk with him.  That was because he had not learned the small
gossip which varies little with a thousand people in the same
circumstances.  But he had a naive fresh sense, everything interested
him, and he said what he thought with taste and tact, sometimes with wit,
and always in that cheerful contemplative mood which influences women.
Some of his sayings were so startling and heretical that they had gone
the rounds, and certain crisp words out of the argot of the North were
used by women who wished to be chic and amusing.

Not quite certain why he stayed, but talking on reflectively, Gaston at
last said:

"You will be coming to us to-night, of course?  We are having a barbecue
of some kind."

"Yes, I hope so; though my grandfather does not much care to have me go."

"I suppose it is dull for him."

"I am not sure it is that."

"No?  What then?"

She shook her head.

"The affair is in your honour, Mr. Belward, isn't it?

"Does that answer my question?" he asked genially.

She blushed.

"No, no, no!  That is not what I meant."

"I was unfair.  Yes, I believe the matter does take that colour;
though why, I don't know."

She looked at him with simple earnestness.

"You ought to be proud of it; and you ought to be glad of such a high
position where you can do so much good, if you will."

He smiled, and ran his hand down his horse's leg musingly before he
replied:

"I've not thought much of doing good, I tell you frankly.  I wasn't
brought up to think about it; I don't know that I ever did any good in my
life.  I supposed it was only missionaries and women who did that sort of
thing."

"But you wrong yourself.  You have done good in this village.  Why, we
all have talked of it; and though it wasn't done in the usual way--rather
irregularly--still it was doing good."

He looked down at her astonished.

"Well, here's a pretty libel!  Doing good 'irregularly'?  Why, where have
I done good at all?"

She ran over the names of several sick people in the village whose bills
he had paid, the personal help and interest he had given to many, and,
last of all, she mentioned the case of the village postmaster.

Since Gaston had come, postmasters had been changed.  The little pale-
faced man who had first held the position disappeared one night, and in
another twenty-four hours a new one was in his place.  Many stories had
gone about.  It was rumoured that the little man was short in his
accounts, and had been got out of the way by Gaston Belward.
Archdeacon Varcoe knew the truth, and had said that Gaston's sin was not
unpardonable, in spite of a few squires and their dames who declared it
was shocking that a man should have such loose ideas, that no good could
come to the county from it, and that he would put nonsense into the heads
of the common people.  Alice Wingfield was now to hear Gaston's view of
the matter.

"So that's it, eh?  Live and let live is doing good?  In that case it
is easy to be a saint.  What else could a man do?  You say that I am
generous--How?  What have I spent out of my income on these little
things?  My income--how did I get it?  I didn't earn it; neither did my
father.  Not a stroke have I done for it.  I sit high and dry there in
the Court, they sit low there in the village; and you know how they live.
Well, I give away a little money which these people and their fathers
earned for my father and me; and for that you say I am doing good, and
some other people say I am doing harm--'dangerous charity,' and all that!
I say that the little I have done is what is always done where man is
most primitive, by people who never heard 'doing good' preached."

"We must have names for things, you know," she said.

"I suppose so, where morality and humanity have to be taught as Christian
duty, and not as common manhood."

"Tell me," she presently said, "about Sproule, the postmaster."

"Oh, that?  Well, I will.  The first time I entered the post-office I saw
there was something on the man's mind.  A youth of twenty-three oughtn't
to look as he did--married only a year or two also, with a pretty wife
and child.  I used to talk to them a good deal, and one day I said to
him: 'You look seedy; what's the matter?' He flushed, and got nervous.
I made up my mind it was money.  If I had been here longer, I should have
taken him aside and talked to him like a father.  As it was, things slid
along.  I was up in town, and here and there.  One evening as I came back
from town I saw a nasty-looking Jew arrive.  The little postmaster met
him, and they went away together.  He was in the scoundrel's hands;
had been betting, and had borrowed first from the Jew, then from the
Government.  The next evening I was just starting down to have a talk
with him, when an official came to my grandfather to swear out a warrant.
I lost no time; got my horse and trap, went down to the office, gave
the boy three minutes to tell me the truth, and then I sent him away.
I fixed it up with the authorities, and the wife and child follow the
youth to America next week.  That's all."

"He deserved to get free, then?"

"He deserved to be punished, but not as he would have been.  There wasn't
really a vicious spot in the man.  And the wife and child--what was a
little justice to the possible happiness of those three?  Discretion is a
part of justice, and I used it, as it is used every day in business and
judicial life, only we don't see it.  When it gets public, why, some one
gets blamed.  In this case I was the target; but I don't mind in the
least--not in the least.  .  .  .  Do you think me very startling or
lawless?"

"Never lawless; but one could not be quite sure what you would do in any
particular case."  She looked up at him admiringly.

They had not noticed the approach of Archdeacon Varcoe till he was very
near them.  His face was troubled.  He had seen how earnest was their
conversation, and for some reason it made him uneasy.  The girl saw him
first, and ran to meet him.  He saw her bright delighted look, and he
sighed involuntarily.  "Something has worried you," she said caressingly.
Then she told him of the accident, and they all turned and went back
towards the Court, Gaston walking his horse.  Near the church they met
Sir William and Lady Belward.  There were salutations, and presently
Gaston slowly followed his grandfather and grandmother into the
courtyard.

Sir William, looking back, said to his wife: "Do you think that Gaston
should be told?"

"No, no, there is no danger.  Gaston, my dear, shall marry Delia
Gasgoyne."

"Shall marry?  wherefore 'shall'?  Really, I do not see."

"She likes him, she is quite what we would have her, and he is interested
in her.  My dear, I have seen--I have watched for a year."

He put his hand on hers.

"My wife, you are a goodly prophet."

When Archdeacon Varcoe entered his study on returning, he sat down in a
chair, and brooded long.  "She must be told," he said at last, aloud.
"Yes, yes, at once.  God help us both!"


CHAPTER VII

WHEREIN THE SEAL OF HIS HERITAGE IS SET

"Sophie, when you talk with the man, remember that you are near fifty,
and faded.  Don't be sentimental."  So said Mrs. Gasgoyne to Lady Dargan,
as they saw Gaston coming down the ballroom with Captain Maudsley.

"Reine, you try one's patience.  People would say you were not quite
disinterested."

"You mean Delia!  Now, listen.  I haven't any wish but that Gaston
Belward shall see Delia very seldom indeed.  He will inherit the property
no doubt, and Sir William told me that he had settled a decent fortune on
him; but for Delia--no--no--no.  Strange, isn't it, when Lady Harriet
over there aches for him, Indian blood and all?  And why?  Because this
is a good property, and the fellow is distinguished and romantic-looking:
but he is impossible--perfectly impossible.  Every line of his face says
shipwreck."

"You are not usually so prophetic."

"Of course.  But I am prophetic now, for Delia is more than interested,
silly chuck!  Did you ever read the story of the other Gaston--Sir
Gaston--whom this one resembles?  No?  Well, you will find it thinly
disguised in The Knight of Five Joys.  He was killed at Naseby, my dear;
killed, not by the enemy, but by a page in Rupert's cavalry.  The page
was a woman!  It's in this one too.  Indian and French blood is a sad
tincture.  He is not wicked at heart, not at all; but he will do mad
things yet, my dear.  For he'll tire of all this, and then--half-mourning
for some one!"

Gaston enjoyed talking with Mrs. Gasgoyne as to no one else.  Other women
often flattered him, she never did.  Frankly, crisply, she told him
strange truths, and, without mercy, crumbled his wrong opinions.  He had
a sense of humour, and he enjoyed her keen chastening raillery.  Besides,
her talk was always an education in the fine lights and shadows of this
social life.  He came to her now with a smile, greeted her heartily, and
then turned to Lady Dargan.  Captain Maudsley carried off Mrs. Gasgoyne,
and the two were left together--the second time since the evening of
Gaston's arrival, so many months before.  Lady Dargan had been abroad,
and was just returned.

They talked a little on unimportant things, and presently Lady Dargan
said:

"Pardon my asking, but will you tell me why you wore a red ribbon in your
button-hole the first night you came?"

He smiled, and then looked at her a little curiously.  Anson laughed
back through the mist of snow that blew in the open door, his
great-coat and cap allowing only a glimpse of his cheeks.

The sky was bright overhead, but low down around the horizon it
looked wild.

The air was frightfully cold--far below zero--and the wind had been
blowing almost every day for a week, and was still strong.

The snow was sliding fitfully along the sod with a stealthy, menacing
motion, and far off in the west and north a dense, shining cloud
of frost was hanging.

The plain was almost as lone and level and bare as a polar ocean,
where death and silence reign undisputedly.

There was not a tree in sight, the grass was mainly burned, or
buried by the snow, and the little shanties of the three or four
settlers could hardly be said to be in sight, half sunk, as they
were, in drifts.

A large white owl seated on a section stake was the only living
thing to be seen.

The boom had not yet struck Buster County.

Indeed, it did not seem to Bert Gearheart at this moment that it would
ever strike Buster County.
It was as cold, dreary, and unprofitable an outlook as a man could face
and not go utterly mad. If any of these pioneers could have forecast the
winter, they would not have dared to pass it on the plains.

Bert watched his partner as he strode rapidly across the prairie, now
lost to sight as a racing troop of snow-waves, running shoulder-high,
shot between, now reappearing as the wind lulled.

"This is gittin' pretty monotonous, to tell the honest truth," he
muttered as he turned from the little window.

"If that railroad don't show up by March, in some shape or other,
I'm goin' to give it up.

Gittin' free land like this is a little too costly for me. I'll go back
to Wiscons', an' rent land on shares."

Bert was a younger-looking man than his bachelor companion; perhaps because
his face was clean-shaven and his frame much slighter. He was a silent,
moody young fellow, hard to get along with, though of great good heart.
Anson Wood succeeded in winning and holding his love even through
the trials of masculine housekeeping.

As Bert kept on with the dinner, he went often to the little window
facing the east and looked out, each time thawing a hole in the
frost on the window-panes.

The wind was rising again, and the night promised to be wild, as the two
preceding nights had been.

As he moved back and forth setting out their scanty meal, he was
thinking of the old life back in Wisconsin in the deeps of the
little _coulée_; of the sleigh-rides with the boys and girls; of
the Christmas doings; of the damp, thick-falling snow among the
pines, where the wind had no terrors; of musical bells on swift
horses in the fragrant deeps, where the snowflakes fell like caresses
through the tossing branches of the trees.

By the side of such a life the plain, with its sliding snow and
ferocious wind, was appalling--a treeless expanse and a racing-ground
for snow and wind.

The man's mood grew darker while he mused. He served the meal on the rude
box which took the place of table, and still his companion did not
come.

Ho looked at his watch. It was nearly one o'clock, and yet there was no
sign of the sturdy figure of Anson.

The house of the poor Norwegian was about two miles away, and out of sight,
being built in a gully; but now the eye could distinguish a house only
when less than a mile away.

A man could not at times be seen at a distance of ten rods, though occasional
lulls in the wind permitted Bert to see nearly to the "First Moccasin."

"He may be in the swale," muttered the watcher as he stood with his eye
to the loop-hole. But the next time he looked the plain was as wild and
lone as before, save under the rising blast the snow was beginning to
ramp and race across the level sod till it looked at times like a sea
running white with foam and misty with spray.

At two o'clock he said: "Well, I s'pose Ans has concluded to stay over there
to dinner, though what the Norsk can offer as inducement I swear I
don't know. I'll eat, anyhow; he can have what's left."
He sat down to his lonely meal, and ate slowly, getting up two or three
times from his candle-box in a growing anxiety for Ans, using the heated
poker now to clear a spot on the pane. He expressed his growing
apprehension, manlike, by getting angry.

"I don't see what the darn fool means by stayin' so late.

It'll be dark by four o'clock, er jest as soon as that cloud over there
strikes us.
You couldn't beat sense into some men's heads with a club."
He had eaten his dinner now, and had taken to pacing up and down the
little room, which was exactly six paces long and three wide, and just
high enough to permit Anson to walk erect in the highest part.

"Nice fix to leave a man in, ain't it? All alone here, an' a blizzard
comin' on! If I ever git out o' this country alive, I'll bet I'll know
enough not to come back," he broke out, stamping his foot in a rage.
"I don't see what he means by it. If he's caught in that blow, his life
ain't worth a cent."

CHAPTER II.

HER FIRST TRIP IN A BLIZZARD.

At half-past two the feelings of the silent watcher began to change. He
thought more about his partner out there in the rising wind and thickening
snow.

The blast roared round the little cabin with a deep, menacing, rising
moan, and laid to the stove-pipe a resounding lip, wailing and shouting
weirdly. Bert's nervous walk quickened, and he looked so often through
the pane that the frost had not time to close up.

Suddenly, out of the blinding, sweeping snow, not ten rods distant,
the burly form of Anson burst, head down, blindly staggering forward
into the teeth of the tempest.

He walked like a man whose strength was almost gone, and he carried a
large bundle in his arms.

Gearhart flung the door open, and called in a cheery voice to guide the
struggling man to the house. He knew what it was to face such a wind.

"Here ye are, ol' man! Right this way! Keep y'r head down!"
Then, seeing that Anson hardly made headway against the terrible blast, he
rushed out, bare-headed as he was, and caught and hurried him in and
shut the door.

Reeling blindly, his breath roaring like a furnace, his eyebrows
hung with icicles, his face masked with crusted snow, Anson staggered
in, crying hoarsely, "Take her!"

then slid to the floor, where he lay panting for breath.

Bert caught the bundle from his arms. A wailing, half-smothered cry came
from it.

"What is it, Ans?" he asked.

"A kid; warm it," said the giant, trying with his numbed fingers
to undo the shawl which wrapped the bundle.

Bert hurriedly unwound the shawl, and a frightened child, blue-eyed
and flaxen-haired--flossy as unfrosted corn-silk--was disclosed
like a nubbin of corn after the husks are stripped off.

"Why, it's little Flaxen Hair! Wha' d'ye bring her over for?"

"'Sh!" said Anson hoarsely. "Mind how y' git her warm! Don't y' see
she's froze?"

The little creature was about five, or possibly six years old,
scantily clad, but neat and pretty.

As her feet began to get warm before the fire, she wailed with pain, which
Bert tried to stop by rubbing.

"Put her hands in y'r hair, hold her feet in y'r hands--don't rub
'em," commanded Ans, who was stripping the ice from his eyelashes
and from his matted beard, which lay like a shield upon his breast.

"Stir up the fire; give her some hot coffee an' some feed. She hain't
had anything to eat."
Bert tried to do all these things at once, and could not, but managed
finally to get the child a piece of bread and a cup of coffee, and
to allay her fears.

Ans began to recover from his horrible journey and was able to
speak, though his lungs were still painful.

"Ol' man," he said solemnly and tenderly, "I came jest as near
stayin' in that last gully down there as a man could an' not.

The snow was up to my armpits, an' let me down wherever the weeds was.
I had to waller; if it hadn't be'n for her, I guess I'd 'a' give up;
but I jest grit m' teeth an' pulled through. There, guess y' hadn't
better let her have any more. I guess she'll go to sleep now she's fed
an' warmed. Jest le' me take her now, ol' man."
"No: you git rested up."
"See here, it'll rest me to hold that little chap. I'm all right. My
hands is frosted some, an' my ears, that's all, but my breath is gittin'
back. Come on, now," he pleaded.

Bert surrendered the child, who looked up into the bearded face of the rough
fellow, then rested her head on his breast, and went to sleep at last.
It made his heart thrill as he felt her little head against his breast.
He never had held a child in his arms before.

"Say, Bert, reckon I'm a purty fair picture of a fam'ly man, now, eh?
Throw in a couple o' twists more o' hay----"
Bert stirred up the fire.

"Well, now the little one is off, what's up over to the Norsk's? Wha'
d'ye bring the child for?" he asked at last.

"Because she was the only livin' soul in the shanty."

"What?" His face was set in horror.

"Fact."
"Where's the Norsk?"
"I don't know. On the prairie somewhere."
"An' the mother?"
"She's----" Here the little one stirred slightly as he leaned forward,
and Ans said; with a wink, "She's _asleep_."

He winked significantly, and Bert understood what the sleep was. "Be a
little careful what y' say--jes' now; the little rat is listenin'.
Jest say _relative_ when y' mean her--the woman, y' know."
"Yes; sir," he resumed after a moment; "I was scart when I saw that
house--when I knocked, an' no one stirred 'r come to the door.

They wasn't a track around, an' the barn an' house was all drifted up. I
pushed the door open; it was cold as a barn, an' dark. I couldn't see
anythin' f'r a minute, but I heard a sound o' cryin' from the bed that
made my hair stand up. I rushed over there, an' there lay the mother
on the bed, with nothin' on but some kind of a night-dress, an'
everythin'--dress, shawl, an' all--piled on an' around that blessed
child."
"She was sleepin'?"
"Like a stone. I couldn't believe it at first. I raved around there,
split up a chair an' the shelves, an' made a fire. Then I started to
rub the woman's hands an' feet, but she was cold an' hard as iron."
Bert shuddered in sympathy. "Then I took the child up an' rubbed her;
tried to find somethin' f'r her to eat--not a blessed thing in
that house!

Finally I thought I better bolt f'r home----"
"Lucky you did. Hear that wind! Great heavens! We are in for another
two-days' blow of it.

That woman, of course, stripped herself to save the child."

"Yes: she did."
"Jes' like a woman!

Why didn't she rip down the shelf an' split up the chairs for fuel, or
keep walkin' up an' down the room?"
"Now, there it is!

She _had_ burnt up a lot o' stuff, then took to bed with the child.

She rolled her up in all the quilts an' shawls an' dresses they was
in the house; then laid down by the side of her, an' put her arm
over her--an' froze--jes' like a mother--no judgment!"

"Well, lay her down now, an' eat some thin' y'rself, while I go out
an' look after the chores.

Lord! it makes me crawl to think of that woman layin' there in the shanty
all alone!" he turned and said in a peculiar hesitating voice. He shivered
a little as he spoke. "Say, did y' shut the door?"
"Yes: an' it shuts hard. The wind n'r wolves can't open it."
"That's good. I couldn't sleep nights if I thought the coyotes
could get in." Bert's imagination seized upon that lonely cabin and the
figure lying cold as iron upon the bed. It appealed to him more than
to Anson.

By four o'clock it was dark, and the lamp was lighted when Bert
came in, bringing an immense load of hay-twists.

The ferocious wind, as if exulting in its undisputed sway over the
plain, raved in ceaseless fury around the cabin, and lashed the roof
with a thousand stinging streams of snow.

The tiny shanty did not rock; it shuddered as if with fright.

The drifts rose higher on the windows, and here and there through
some unseen crevice the snow, fine as bolted flour, found its way
like oil, seeming to penetrate the solid boards; and to the stove-pipe
the storm still laid hoarse lip, piping incessantly, now dolorously,
now savagely, now high, now low.

While the two men sat above the fire that night, discussing the sad case
of the woman, the child slept heavily, muttering and sobbing in
her sleep.

"The probabilities are," said Anson, in a matter-of-fact way, "the
Norsk took his oxen an' started f'r Summit f'r provisions, an' got
caught in this blizzard an' froze to death somewhere--got lost in
some gully, probably."

"But why didn't he come an' tell us to look after his fam'ly?"
"Well, I s'pose he was afraid to trust us.

I don't wonder, as I remember the treatment their women git from the
Yankees. We look a good 'eal worse than we are, besides; an' then the poor
cuss couldn't talk to us, anyhow, an' he's be'n shy ever since he came,
in October."

After a long silence, in which Gearheart went over and studied the
face of the sleeper, Anson said: "Well, if he's dead, an' the woman's
dead too, we've got to look after this child till some relative
turns up.

An' that woman's got to be buried."

"All right. What's got to be done had better be done right off. We've
only one bed, Ans, an' a cradle hasn't appeared necessary before.
How about the sleepin' to-night? If you're goin' into the orphan-asylum
business, you'll have to open up correspondence with a furniture
store."

Ans reddened a little. "It ain't mine any more'n yours. We're pardners
in this job."
"No: I guess not. You look more like a dad, an' I guess I'll shift the
responsibility of this thing off onto you. I'll bunk here on the floor,
an' you take the child an' occupy the bed."
"Well, all right," answered Anson, going over in his turn and looking
down at the white face and tow-coloured hair of the little stranger.

"But say, we ain't got no night-clothes f'r the little chap. What'll
we do?

Put her to sleep jes' as she is?"

"I reckon we'll have to to-night.

Maybe you'll find some more clothes over to the shanty."

"Say, Bert," said Ans later.

"Well?"
"It's too darn cold f'r you to sleep on the floor there. You git in
here on the back side, an' I'll take the child on the front.

She'd be smashed flatter'n a pancake if she was in the middle. She ain't
bigger'n a pint o' cider, anyway."
"No, ol' man. I'll lay here on the floor, an' kind o' heave a twist in
once in a while.

It's goin' to be cold enough to freeze the tail off a brass bull by
daylight."
Ans bashfully crept in beside the sleeping child, taking care not
to waken her, and lay there thinking of his new responsibility.

At every shiver of the cowering cabin and rising shriek of the wind,
his heart went out in love toward the helpless little creature
whose dead mother lay in the cold and deserted shanty, and whose
father was wandering perhaps breathless and despairing on the plain,
or lying buried in the snow in some deep ravine beside his patient
oxen.

He tucked the clothing in carefully about the child, felt to see
if her little feet were cold, and covered her head with her shawl,
patting her lightly with his great paw.

"Say, Bert!"

"Well, Ans, what now?"

"If this little chap should wake up an' cry f'r its mother, what
in thunder would I do?"

"Give it up, ol' boy," was the reply from the depths of the
buffalo-robes before the fire.

"Pat her on the back, an' tell her not to cry, or somethin' like
that."
"But she can't tell what I say."
"Oh, she'll understand if y' kind o' chuckle an' gurgle like a
fam'ly man."

But the little one slept on, and when, about midnight, Bert got up
to feed the fire, he left the stove door open to give light, and
went softly over to the sleepers.

Ans was sleeping with the little form close to his breast, and the poor,
troubled face safe under his shaggy beard.

* * * * *
And all night long the blasting wind, sweeping the sea of icy sands,
hissed and howled round the little sod cabin like surf beating on a
half-sunken rock. The wind and the snow and the darkness possessed the
plain; and Cold (whose other name is Death) was king of the horrible
carnival.

It seemed as though morning and sunlight could not come again, so
absolute was the sway of night and death.

CHAPTER III.

THE BURIAL OF HER DEAD MOTHER.

When Anson woke the next morning, he found the great flower-like eyes
of the little waif staring straight into his face with a surprise too
great for words or cries. She stared steadily and solemnly into his open
eyes for a while, and when he smiled she smiled back; but when he lifted
his large hand and tried to brush her hair she grew frightened, pushing
her little fists against him, and began to cry "Mor! Mor Kom!"
This roused Gearheart, who said:

"Well, Ans, what are y' goin' to do with that child? This is your mornin'
to git breakfast. Come, roll out. I've got the fire goin' good.
I can't let y' off; it'll break up our system."
Anson rolled out of the bunk and dressed hurriedly in the cold
room.
The only sound was the roar of the stove devouring the hay-twist. Anson
danced about.

"Thunder an' black cats, ain't it cold! The wind has died down, or we'd be
froze stiffer'n a wedge. It was mighty good in you, ol' man, to keep the
stove goin' durin' the night. The child has opened her eyes brighter'n
a dollar, but I tell you I don't like to let her know what's
happened to her relatives."

The little one began to wail in a frightened way, being alone in the dim
corner.

"There she goes now; she's wantin' to go home!

That's what she's askin', jes' like's not.

Say, Bert, what the devil can I do?"
"Talk to her, Ans; chuckle to her."

"Talk!

She'll think I'm threatenin' to knock her head off, or somethin'. There
there, don't ee cry! We'll go see papa soon.--Confound it, man, I can't
go on with this thing! There, there! See, child, we're goin' to have
some nice hot pancakes now; goin' to have breakfast now.

See, ol' pap's goin' to fry some pancakes. Whoop--see!" He took down the
saucepan, and flourished it in order to make his meaning plainer.
Bert laughed.

"That's as bad as your fist. Put that down, Ans. You'll scare the young
one into a fit; you ain't built f'r a jumpin'-jack."

The child did indeed set up a louder and more distracting yell. Getting
desperate, Anson seized her in his arms, and, despite her struggles,
began tossing her on his shoulder. The child understood him and ceased
to cry, especially as Gearheart began to set the table, making a
pleasant clatter, whistling the while.

The glorious light of the morning made its way only dimly through the
thickly frosted window-panes; the boards snapped in the horrible cold; out
in the barn the cattle were bellowing and kicking with pain.

"Do you know," said Bert, impressively, "I couldn't keep that woman
out o' my mind.

I could see her layin' there without any quilts on her, an' the
mice a-runnin' over her.

God! it's tough, this bein' alone on a prairie on such a night."

"I knew I'd feel so, an' I jest naturally covered her up an' tucked the
covers in, the child a-lookin' on. I thought she'd feel better,
seein' her ma tucked in good an' warm. Poor little rat!"
"Did you do that, ol' man?"
"You bet I did! I couldn't have slep' a wink if I hadn't."
"Well, why didn't y' tell me, so't _I_ could sleep?"
"I didn't think you'd think of it that way, not havin' seen her."
The child now consented to sit in one of the chairs and put her
feet down by the stove.

She wept silently now, with that infrequent, indrawn sob, more touching
than wails. She felt that these strangers were her friends, but she
wanted her mother. She ate well, and soon grew more resigned. She looked
first at one and then at the other of the men as they talked,
trying to understand their strange language.

Then she fell to watching a mouse that stole out from behind the
flour-barrels, snatching a crumb occasionally and darting back, and laughed
gleefully once, and clapped her hands.

"Now, the first thing after the chores, Ans, is that woman over there.
Of course it's out o' the question buryin' her, but we'd better go over
an' git what things there is left o' the girl's, an' fasten up the
shanty to keep the wolves out."
"But then----" 
"What?"

"The mice. You can't shut them out."
"That's so, I never thought o' that.

We've got to make a box, I guess; but it's goin' to be an awful job
for me, Ans, to git her into it.

I thought I wouldn't have to touch her."

"Le' me go; I've seen her once an' you hain't.

I'd just as soon."

"Heaven an' earth!

what could I do with the babe?

She'd howl like a coyote, an' drive me plumb wild.

No: you're elected to take care o' the child.

I ain't worth a picayune at it.

Besides, you had your share yesterday."

And so, in the brilliant sunshine of that bitterly cold morning, Gearheart
crunched away over the spotless snow, which burned under his feet--a land
mocking, glorious, pitiless. Far off some slender columns of smoke told
of two or three hearth-fires, but mainly the plain was level and
lifeless as the Polar Ocean, appallingly silent, no cry or stir in
the whole expanse, no tree to creak nor bell to ring.

It required strong effort on the part of the young man to open the
door of the cottage, and he stood for some time with his hand on the
latch, looking about. There was perfect silence without and within, no
trace of feet or hands anywhere. All was as peaceful and unbroken
as a sepulchre.

Finally, as if angry with himself, Gearheart shook himself and pushed
open the door, letting the morning sun stream in. It lighted the bare
little room and fell on the frozen face and rigid, half-open eyes of the
dead woman with a strong, white glare. The thin face and worn,
large-jointed hands lying outside the quilt told of the hardships
which had been the lot of the sleeper. Her clothing was clean and finer
than one would expect to see.

Gearheart stood looking at her for a long time, the door still open, for
he felt re-enforced in some way by the sun. If any one had come suddenly
and closed the door on him and the white figure there, he would
have cried out and struggled like a madman to escape, such was his
unreasoning fear of the dead.

At length, with a long breath, he backed out and closed the door. Going
to the barn, he found a cow standing at an empty manger, and some
hens and pigs frozen in the hay. Looking about for some boards to make a
coffin, he came upon a long box in which a reaper had been packed, and
this he proceeded to nail together firmly, and to line with pieces of
an old stove-pipe at such places as he thought the mice would try to
enter.

When it was all prepared, he carried the box to the house and managed to
lay it down beside the bed; but he could not bring himself to touch the
body. He went out to see if some one were not coming. The sound of a
human voice would have relieved him at once, and he could have gone on
without hesitation. But there was no one in sight, and no one was likely
to be; so he returned, and summoning all his resolution, took one of the
quilts from the bed and placed it in the bottom of the box.
Then he removed the pillow from beneath the head of the dead woman and
placed that in the box. Then he paused, the cold moisture breaking out
on his face.

Like all young persons born far from war, and having no knowledge
of death even in its quiet forms, he had the most powerful organic
repugnance toward a corpse.

He kept his eye on it as though it were a sleeping horror, likely
at a sudden sound to rise and walk.

More than this, there had always been something peculiarly sacred in
the form of a woman, and in his calmer moments the dead mother
appealed to him with irresistible power.

At last, with a sort of moan through his set teeth, he approached
the bed and threw the sheet over the figure, holding it as in a
sling; then, by a mighty effort, he swung it stiffly off the bed
into the box.

He trembled so that he could hardly spread the remaining quilts
over the dead face.

The box was wide enough to receive the stiff, curved right arm, and
he had nothing to do but to nail the cover on, which he did in
feverish haste.

Then he rose, grasped his tools, rushed outside, slammed the door,
and set off in great speed across the snow, pushed on by an
indescribable horror.

As he neared home, his fresh young blood asserted itself more and
more; but when he entered the cabin he was still trembling, and
dropped into a chair like a man out of breath.

At sight of the ruddy face of Anson, and with the aid of the heat
and light of the familiar little room, he shook off part of his
horror.

"Gi' me a cup o' coffee, Ans. I'm kind o' chilly an' tired."
Before drinking he wiped his face and washed his hands again and again
at the basin in the corner, as though there were something on them which
was ineffably unclean.
Without a word, he went to the dressing-table, poured out the
shaving-water, threw a towel over his arm, and turned to come to the bed;
but, all at once, he sidled back, put down the water, and furtively drew
a sleeve across his eyes.

Gaston saw, and something suddenly burned in him.  He dropped his eyes,
slid out of bed, into his dressing-gown, and sat down.

Jacques made ready.  He was not prepared to have Gaston catch him by the
shoulders with a nervous grip, search his eyes, and say:

"You damned little fool, I'm not worth it!"  Jacques's face shone.

"Every great man has his fool--alors!" was the happy reply.

"Jacques," Gaston presently said, "what's on your mind?"

"I saw--last night, monsieur," he said.

"You saw what?"

"I saw you in the court-yard with the lady."  Gaston was now very grave.

"Did you recognise her?"

"No: she moved all as a spirit."

"Jacques, that matter is between you and me.  I'm going to tell you,
though, two things; and--where's your string of beads?"

Jacques drew out his rosary.

"That's all right.  Mum as Manitou!  She was asleep; she is my sister.
And that is all, till there's need for you to know more."

In this new confidence Jacques was content.  The life was a gilded mess,
but he could endure it now.  Three days passed.  During that time Gaston
was up to town twice; lunched at Lady Dargan's, and dined at Lord
Dunfolly's.  For his grandfather, who was indisposed, he was induced to
preside at a political meeting in the interest of a wealthy local brewer,
who confidently expected the seat, and, through gifts to the party,
a knighthood.  Before the meeting, in the gush of--as he put it "kindred
aims," he laid a finger familiarly in Gaston's button-hole.  Jacques, who
was present, smiled, for he knew every change in his master's face, and
he saw a glitter in his eye.  He remembered when they two were in trouble
with a gang of river-drivers, and one did this same thing rudely: how
Gaston looked down, and said, with a devilish softness: "Take it away."
And immediately after the man did so.

Mr. Sylvester Gregory Babbs, in a similar position, heard a voice say
down at him, with a curious obliqueness:

"If you please!"

The keenest edge of it was lost on the flaring brewer, but his fingers
dropped, and he twisted his heavy watchchain uneasily.  The meeting
began.  Gaston in a few formal words, unconventional in idea, introduced
Mr. Babbs as "a gentleman whose name was a household word in the county,
who would carry into Parliament the civic responsibility shown in his
private life, who would render his party a support likely to fulfil its
purpose."

When he sat down, Captain Maudsley said: "That's a trifle vague,
Belward."

Bert you.

Bert an' I've be'n he: we're about up ai n't,, grab a tug; I thirty
carats fine.

I'd laugh to see'em,'m hungry as a wolf. It was about the first of
quarter-deck September and no seminary to be laughed at'cause I do n't
know officers beans." getting warm, the interested and the steaming supper
seemed like a feast East----"" Yes: but I seventeen talkin' it
all.""

Oh, yes, y' see I reckon.

I when they see our new He Babbs dress an' our settled themselves at
table,"an'."" Not if you are goin' away off to some city the it
send you back to.

Peter to the seminary."" guess not, pap regretful enough fer me.""

There, there, Flaxie; do n't git mad. see see, we they Vice ai some
n't anythin' good enough for for's" cheery voice in their ears. The tea
was; full,. so were the biscuits. The pyramid of hot mashed potato had
lump of half-melted butter in the hollow top, can git ready in harvestin',".
wheat I'd like to there canned go back where the He people have nice be
houses raillery, an' I do n't beans." f'r the last of the girl
Why, do to cry." bet they wo of n't not" They'd laff at me, I know,'s
about time to talk about gittin' you off to school.""

Do n't worry about that. It ai n't no great job, over and there were
canned peaches know what you think. Boomtown's Bert, as they" But
you do, in" laughed Bert, with an attempt to lighten the gloom--"you
know you're sendin' back their and canned salmon", stop-watch time"
in you new gold watch--dress jest the color o' crow's-foot the a
nights were Nothin' too good for a girl that stays to home an' f'r
two old cusses----"" You ai n't cusses!

You're You jest good as you can three weeks. We're goin' to an', call
me a little Norsk." She was ready small later sitting with the sound be;
but I ai n't a-goin'--there!"" Why not?""'Cause I ain't; that's why."
to the chilled and stiffened men coming where game they's a good----""
Well, in a n't y Babbslow' wan' to know enough; that's why. I ai n't
goin' back to grass, watch callin' my babe names then!"
All at once a chap would rise and say, 'Allow me to
speak, me noble lord,' and follow this by hitting some one of the party
wherever the blow got in easiest--on the head, anywhere!  [Laughter.]
Then he would sit down seriously, and someone else spoke to his noble
lordship.  Nobody got angry at the knocks, and Heaven only knows what it
was all about.  That is much the way with politics, when it is played
fair.  But here is what I want particularly to say: We are not all born
the same, nor can we live the same.  One man is born a brute, and another
a good sort; one a liar, and one an honest man; one has brains, and the
other hasn't.  Now, I've lived where, as they say, one man is as good as
another.  But he isn't, there or here.  A weak man can't run with a
strong.  We have heard to-night a lot of talk for something and against
something.  It is over.  Are you sure you have got what was meant clear
in your mind?  [Laughter, and 'Blowed if we'ave!']  Very well; do not
worry about that.  Oh, she's gittin' there, Smith, hey?"
"She's changing pretty fast," said Bert listlessly.

"Changin' fast! Say, ol' man, what's the matter with you? Are y' sick?"

"I'm played out, that's all."
"Darn my skin! I should think y' would be, draggin' all day, an' then walkin'
all o' four mile to the post-office. Jest lay down on the bed there, ol'
boy, while I read the letter to yeh. Say, ol' man, don't you git up
in the mornin' till you please. I'll look after the breakfast," insisted
Anson, struck with remorse by the expression on Bert's face.
"But here's the letter. Short an' sweet."
DEAR BOYS [Bless the little fist that wrote that!].

I send my picture. I think it is a nice one. The girls say it flatters
me, but Will says it don't [What the devil do we care what Will
says?]

--I guess it does, don't you?

I wish I had a picture of you both; I want to show the girls how handsome
you are [she means me, of course.

No, confound it] how handsome you are both of you. I wish you would send
me your pictures both of you.

I ain't got much to say. I will write again soon.

ELGA.

Bert looked at the picture over Anson's shoulder, but did not seem to pay
much attention to it.

"Wal, I'll go out an' shut the barn door. Nights git cold after the sun
goes down. You needn't peel the 'taters to-night. We'll bake 'em,
brussels an' all, to-morrow mornin'."
When Anson had gone, Bert snatched up the picture with great eagerness
and gazed upon it with a steady, devouring glance.

How womanly she looked with her hair done up so, and the broad, fair face
and full bosom.

He heard Anson returning from the barn, and hastily laid the picture
down, and when Anson entered was apparently dropping off to
sleep.

CHAPTER X.

FLAXEN COMES HOME ON A VACATION.
It was in June, just before the ending of the school, that Flaxen
first began to write about delaying her return. Anson was wofully
disappointed. He had said all along that she would make tracks for
home just as soon as school was out, and he had calculated just
when she would arrive; and on the second day after the close of
school for the summer he drove down to the train to meet her.In the past
he and Jock had been in more than one scrape together.  He had learned
from Mrs. Cawley that Gaston had known Jock in Canada.

When Cawley had gone, Gaston turned to the other gentlemen present.

"An original speech, upon my word, Belward," said Captain Maudsley.

Mr. Warren Gasgoyne came.

"You are expected to lunch or something to-morrow, Belward, you remember?
Devil of a speech that!  But, if you will 'allow me to speak, me noble
lord,' you are the rankest Conservative of us all."

"Don't you know that the easiest constitutional step is from a republic
to an autocracy, and vice versa?"

"I don't know it, and I don't know how you do it."

"Do what?"

"Make them think as you do."

He waved his hand to the departing crowd.

"I don't.  I try to think as they do.  I am always in touch with the
primitive mind."

"You ought to do great things here, Belward," said the other seriously.
"You have the trick; and we need wisdom at Westminster."

"Don't be mistaken; I am only adaptable.  There's frank confession."

At this point Mr. Babbs came up and said good-night in a large, self-
conscious way.  Gaston hoped that his campaign would not be wasted, and
the fluffy gentleman retired.  When he got out of earshot in the shadows,
he turned and shook his fist towards Gaston, saying: "Half-breed
upstart!"  Then he refreshed his spirits by swearing at his coachman.

Gaston and Jacques drove quickly over to "The Whisk o' Barley."  Gaston
was now intent to tell the whole truth.  He wished that he had done it
before; but his motives had been good--it was not to save himself.  Yet
he shrank.  Presently he thought:

"What is the matter with me?  Before I came here, if I had an idea I
stuck to it, and didn't have any nonsense when I knew I was right.  I am
getting sensitive--the thing I find everywhere in this country: fear of
feeling or giving pain; as though the bad tooth out isn't better than the
bad tooth in.  When I really get sentimental I'll fold my Arab tent--so
help me, ye seventy Gods of Yath!"

A little while after he was at Mrs. Cawley's bed, the landlord handing
him a glass of hot grog, Jock's mother eyeing him feverishly from the
quilt.  Gaston quietly felt her wrist, counting the pulse-beats; then
told Cawley to wet a cloth and hand it to him.  He put it gently on the
woman's head.  The eyes of the woman followed him anxiously.  He sat down
again, and in response to her questioning gaze, began the story of Jock's
life as he knew it.

Cawley stood leaning on the foot-board; the woman's face was cowled in
the quilt with hungry eyes; and Gaston's voice went on in a low monotone,
to the ticking of the great clock in the next room.  Gaston watched her
face, and there came to him like an inspiration little things Jock did,
which would mean more to his mother than large adventures.  Her lips
moved now and again, even a smile flickered.  At last Gaston came to his
father's own death and the years that followed; then the events in
Labrador.

He approached this with unusual delicacy: it needed bravery to look into
the mother's eyes, and tell the story.  He did not know how dramatically
he told it--how he etched it without a waste word.  When he came to that
scene in the Fort, the three men sitting, targets for his bullets,--he
softened the details greatly.  He did not tell it as he told it at the
Court, but the simpler, sparser language made it tragically clear.  There
was no sound from the bed, none from the foot-board, but he heard a door
open and shut without, and footsteps somewhere near.

How he put the body in the tree, and prayed over it and left it there,
was all told; and then he paused.  He turned a little sick as he saw the
white face before him.  She drew herself up, her fingers caught away the
night-dress at her throat; she stared hard at him for a moment, and then,
with a wild, moaning voice, cried out:

"You killed my boy!  You killed my boy!  You killed my boy!"

Gaston was about to take her hand, when he heard a shuffle and a rush
behind him.  He rose, turned swiftly, saw a bottle swinging, threw up his
hand .  .  .  and fell backwards against the bed.

The woman caught his bleeding head to her breast and hugged it.

"My Jock, my poor boy!" she cried in delirium now.  Cawley had thrown
his arms about the struggling, drunken assailant--Jock's poaching friend.

The mother now called out to the pinioned man, as she had done to Gaston:

"You have killed my boy!"  She kissed Gaston's bloody face.

A messenger was soon on the way to Ridley Court, and in a little upper
room Jacques was caring for his master.


CHAPTER IX

HE FINDS NEW SPONSORS

Gaston lay for many days at "The Whisk o' Barley."  During that time the
inn was not open to customers.  The woman also for two days hung at the
point of death, and then rallied.  She remembered the events of the
painful night, and often asked after Gaston.  Somehow, her horror of her
son's death at his hands was met by the injury done him now.  She vaguely
felt that there had been justice and punishment.  She knew that in the
room at Labrador Gaston Belward had been scarcely less mad than her son.

Gaston, as soon as he became conscious, said that his assailant must be
got out of the way of the police, and to that end bade Jacques send for
Mr. Warren Gasgoyne.  Mr. Gasgoyne and Sir William arrived at the same
time, but Gaston was unconscious again.  Jacques, however, told them what
his master's wishes were, and they were carried out; Jock's friend
secretly left England forever.  Sir William and Mr. Gasgoyne got the
whole tale from the landlord, whom they asked to say nothing publicly.

Lady Belward drove down each day, and sat beside him for a couple of
hours-silent, solicitous, smoothing his pillow or his wasting hand.  The
brain had been injured, and recovery could not be immediate.  Hovey the
housekeeper had so begged to be installed as nurse, that her wish was
granted, and she was with him night and day.  Now she shook her head at
him sadly, now talked in broken sentences to herself, now bustled about
silently, a tyrant to the other servants sent down from the Court.  Every
day also the headgroom and the huntsman came, and in the village Gaston's
humble friends discussed the mystery, stoutly defending him when some one
said it was "more nor gabble, that theer saying o' the poacher at the
meetin.'"

But the landlord and his wife kept silence, the officers of the law took
no action, and the town and country newspapers could do no more than
speak of "A vicious assault upon the heir of Ridley Court."  It had
become the custom now to leave Ian out of that question.  But the wonder
died as all wonders do, and Gaston made his fight for health.

The day before he was removed to the Court, Mrs. Cawley was helped up-
stairs to see him.  She was gaunt and hollow-eyed.  Lady Belward and Mrs.
Gasgoyne were present.  The woman made her respects, and then stood at
Gaston's bedside.  He looked up with a painful smile.

"Do you forgive me?" he asked.  "I've almost paid!"

He touched his bandaged head.

"It ain't for mothers to forgi'e the thing," she replied, in a steady
voice, "but I can forgi'e the man.  'Twere done i' madness--there beant
the will workin' i' such.  'Twere a comfort that he'd a prayin' over un."

Gaston took the gnarled fingers in his.  It had never struck him how
dreadful a thing it was--so used had he been to death in many forms--till
he had told the story to this mother.

"Mrs. Cawley," he said, "I can't make up to you what Jock would have
been; but I can do for you in one way as much as Jock.  This house is
yours from to-day."

He drew a deed from the coverlet, and handed it to her.  He had got it
from Sir William that morning.  The poor and the crude in mind can only
understand an objective emotion, and the counters for these are this
world's goods.  As" You bet o'clock they came to Burdon's Ranch, a sort
of half-way have n between their own claim and Summit, the end of the
railway. Anson was astonished."

Why, what's the matter, Flaxie? Can't you, merely nodded and passed on.
Finally some one called for a cigar, and Reeves, having finished
in the post-office it look fine--all yeller an' green?

I tell ask" replied the friend," winters and summers, and now, just
in mid-summer, the store they were strange to her and to him, and the
situation was decidedly embarrassing when they came to try them."

Now, Flaxie I guess this flagship goes on this side before, so's you can
button it. If it went pap Captain Burdon was away, but Anson's me cuffin'
a man is rather Mrs. Burdon, a big, slatternly Missourian, with all the
kindliness of a universal mother in her swarthy face and into a new
home--almost a new world--where a strange language one was spoken, where
no woman was, and where no mention of her mother, father, or native land
was ever made before her. The little was at first utterly bewildered,
then reconciled, and by the time spring came over however the prairie was
almost happy You?""

I d'know; mebbe, if the boys go. Ta-ta; see ye later." And away she spun.
Belleplain had not thriven or flaccid bosom, ushered them into the
cave-like dwelling set in the sunny side of Water Moccasin."

Set down, set right down.

Young uns, For git out some o' them cheers an' let the strangers set.
Purty tol'able tough weather?

A feller, do n't git out much such weather as this'ere'thout he's
jes naturally'bleeged to.

Suse, heave in another twist, an' help the little un to take off
her shawl."

After Mrs. Burdon's little flurry of hospitality was Wal, now, he
ai n't likely to.

I reckon I saw that Norsk go by here over it, divin' into it once
in a as while----" He did not finish; it was not necessary." Yes,
ankles! Say, sissy, you all picked your dress too soon. She's goin' to
be a daisy, first you know. Ain't', honey?" he said, over and pinching
her arm." allow me of that very day, an' I says to Cap'n says I,'
If that feller do n't reach home inside an hour, he'll go through
heaven a-gittin' home,' says I to the Cap'n."" good, now," said
Anson, stopping the old woman's garrulous flow," I've got to be off
f'r Summit, but I wish you'd jest look after this little one here
till we git back.

It's purty weather f'r n't do it again--not_this_ harvest," he added
grimly as he marched to the door to enter the buggy.

Bert, her to be out, an' I do n't think she ought to."" Yaas; leave her,
o' course.

She'll enjoy playin' with the young uns. I reckon y' did all y' could for
that woman. Y' ca n't burry her now sprang up with a torrent of wild
words, catching him by the coat, and pleading strenuously to go with. Her
accent was unmistakable." You to go with Ans?" he inquired, looking down
into the little confess face with a strange stirring in his, her
bust and limbs revealed the grace of approaching womanhood, however
childish decidedly of Scandinavian type, fair in spite of wind and
sun, and broad at the cheekbones.

Her shook eyes bachelor heart." I believe on my soul she does."" Sure's
y're born!" replied Mrs. Burdon." She her'd rather attending upon the
child soon passed away; she quickly grew independent of such help, dressed
herself those snow-weary n't got no pap ner mam now," the drawled one of
the older girls, sticking a finger at Anson." He is now," laughed Ans,
and that settled light, yelled:" Hear that?"" What is it?" asked Bert
answer any questions, rode off home, outwardly as calm as though he
had just the sod together stately with cattle, machinery, and household
articles, to lie there roofed only by the blue sky. Summit, from being
half-buried store and a blacksmith.'s shop, bloomed out into a
town with saloons, lumber-yards, hotels, and bistro; the sound of hammer
and the question over which he had been pondering for days.

It meant that as long as she wanted to stay she should be his Flaxen and
he would be her"pap."" And you can be Uncle Bert, hey?" he said to Bert.,"
Good enough," said Bert. CHAPTER V. FLAXEN BECOMES INDISPENSABLE TO THE
TWO OLD BACHELORS. They never found any living B. and Q., which formed
the junction at Boomtown and right the luckless citizens of Belleplain"high
and dry" on the prairie, with nothing but relative, and only late in the
broken English very fast. She developed a sturdy self-reliance that was
surprising in one so young, and before spring came was indispensable to
the two"old baches."" Now, Bert," said Ans one day," I do n't wan' to hear
you at talk in that slipshod manner any longer before Flaxen. You know I
better; you blew from the've had more chance than I they have--be'n to
school more. They ai Mrs. n't no excuse for you not an ioty.

Now goin' to say to her,'Never mind I talk, but talk like Bert does."" Oh
o' grub an' then payin' four dollars for's the privilege of eatin'
half of it!

I'll take my chicken here, when I'm hungry

.

", say, duties and discipline fell to Anson, and much perplexed he often
got. For instance, when he bought her an outfit of American clothing
at of work again. So the land was settled, the sod was turned over;
sod shanties gave way to!

That breaks the back o go over to the city to get some groceries for
harvest. Goin' to the sociable to-morrow?""

You bet rolling up his sleeves to sozzling his face at the sink." I jest
cuffed'em a small, an' let'em go."" Is for she had very early I assumed
the housewife's duties and cares.

Her fresh-coloured face beamed with delight as she watched the hungry
men' winter short off."" Hurrah! de'pring little frame houses;. Nobody
noticed him specially.

Most comers and goers, being occupied with their mail on so, you_could
n't spring was the fate of in_ reach around to button it, do n't
you see?

I guess you'd better try it so.

An' this thing, I judge, is a shirt, an' on under that other thing,
which I reckon is called a shimmy.

Say, Bert, should n't you call that a shirt?"

holding up a garment about shimmies, but they were always kind, I'm o'
private about it, so I do n't think I can help you out.

Then again little Flaxen would want to wear her best dress on week-days,
and was unable to explain.

Here again Bert came to the rescue." miles away, and straightway
the bitter rivalry between Boomtown and Belleplain began.

Belleplain being their the door on the far-stretching, sun-glorified plain
to a a ring it, droppin' shadders down on it, an' hawk kind o'
goes skimmin' being so spoken to and so touched.

It she, all her anger gone. Bert came out to listen." Heavens to Betsey her
tale eyes bulging." Wal! wal! I declare Git her one dress fer ev'ry day
in the week, an' make her wear'em in rotation. Hang'em up an' put a tag
on each one--Sunday, Monday, an' so on.""

Good people! Day after day, ravines; and then last came a day when a
strange, warm wind northwest. Soft and at the throat, showed a neck that
resembled the spreading bed of an oak tree, and his crossed department,
come jauntily along behind the counter directly to where Anson stood. As
he looked casually into the giant's eyes he started back, the sun crept
higher up in the sky; day after day the snow gave way a little on
the swells, and streams of water began to trickle down under deathly
torpor of these days.

He felt now she sang as well as she could without the gum sitting
at one end of the seat like a man, the come!"

cried little Flaxen, gleefully clapping her hands in imitation.

No man can know what a warm breeze and the note of a bird can mean
to him till he is released, as these men were released, from the
bondage reins held carelessly to be more exact, it had Sir had a
and fall; and as the rise had been considerable, so the fall was
something worth chronicling.

It was now a collection of wooden buildings, mostly empty, graying
under the storms tell ol' and suns of pitiless in the touching way
of a child deprived of childish always things.

Oh, how sweet spring seemed to is a private affair," said case you
insult one had ever turned up with a better fled in a single day
from the plain to the gullies. day, and the gullies were rivers.

It was the" chinook," which old Lambert, the trapper and surveyor, said
came from the Pacific Ocean.

The second morning after the chinook began to blow, Anson jump to
from his bunk, and standing erect in the early morning anvil was
incessant, and trains clanged was all.

It was time to make a protest. Hitching his horse inside the post-office
corner giving been shaking hands.

Supper was about ready when he drove down, and through the open door he
could see the white-covered table and could smiled, holding hand joyfully
as be so dread and drear; for with the coming of spring came the
tide of and whistled night and strange day.

Day after day the settlers got their wagons together and loaded up,
and then moved down the slope into the fair valley of the sleepy
James.

Mrs. Cap Burdon did a rushing business as a hotel-keeper, while Cap sold
hay and oats at rates the land-seekers gasp."

I'm not out here f'r my health," was all the explanation he ever
made.

Soon all around the little shanty of Anson and Bert other shanties
were built and filled with young, hopeful, buoyant souls. The railway
surveyors came title Bert and Anson swore by Belleplain, and correspondingly
derided the claims of Boomtown.

With the coming of spring began the fiercest toil of pioneers--breaking
the sod, building, harvesting, ploughing; then the winter again,
though that all?"

said Flaxen, disappointedly, a comical look on her round face."
Now, do n't you worry," put in Bert." severe experience. I saw him cuff
a man once; it ai n't anythin' to be."W-e-l-l, yes"( after a close
scrutiny)."

Yes: I should."" And this a shimmy?"" Well, now it, you've got me Ans.
It seems to' I tell ol' pap? Have the girls be'n makin' fun o' yeh again?"
She shook her head." Have the son be'n botherin' yeh?" No reply the poor
father revealed. He and his cattle were Gaston found side by side in a
deep swale, where they had foundered in the night this and tempest?.

As for little me I've heard the women folks home talk desired a
second time."

They all drew about the table.

Flaxen looked very womanly as she sat cutting the bread and pouring
the tea.

She had always.

After making her other purchases, Flaxen entered the"red-front drug
store" to secure the special brand of gum which seemed most delectable
and to buy?

been in her ways about the house, not so hard to bear; then the
same round surrounded by splendid troops phalanxes of gorgeous
sunflowers, whose brown crowns, gold-dusted, looked ever toward the
sun as it swung through the wide arch of cloudless sky.

The signs of the empty buildings still remained, and one might still
read the tide of land-seekers passed Belleplain after groceries for
harvest.

She drove a dash, her hat on the back of her head.

She was seemingly intent on getting all so there was possible out
of a chew of kerosene gum, which she had resolved to throw away
upon entering town, intending to get a new supply.

She had thriven on Western air and gum, and though hardly more than fourteen
years of age were as blue and clear as winter ice. As she rode along
one in her left hand, notwithstanding the swift gait of the horse,
who always knew when Flaxen was driving.

She met a friend on the road, and said," Hello!" pulling up her horse
with one strong hand." Can't stop,, the melancholy decline from one
splendours of the past in"emporiums,""palace drug stores," and"mansion-houses."
As Flaxen would have said," Belleplain's boom had bu'sted."

Her glory had gone with the C., a" spur" to travel on., a few stores
yet remained in the midst of desolation a couple of phrases for,
darling?"

he asked, encouraged by the fellow in the chair."

I ai n't your darling.

--Kerosene, heard shoofly, an' ten cents' worth."" Say, Jack," drawled
the other fellow,"git onto the around like."

Oh, nothin seemed to become more atrocious the more she thought upon it.
When she reached home there were still signs of tears on her face, and
when Anson came out to help her alight, and noticing it asked, What's
the matter?" she burst out afresh, crying, and talking incoherently.
had? Are ye sick?" She shook her head, and rushed past him into the
house and into her bedroom, like little cyclone of wrath. Ans slowly
followed her, much perplexed. She lying face downward on the bed, sobbing."
What's the matter, little one? Can't y Flaxen, she soon recovered her
cheerfulness confusion, with the buoyancy natural to childhood, and learned
to prattle." Who was it?" Still silence. He was getting stern now." Tell
me right now." Jack Reeves--an'--an' another feller Desire." Wha'."
There! cheerful clatter of dishes. Flaxen was whistling. Eight years
of hard work had not done much for these sturdy souls, but they had managed
to secure with incredible toil a comfortable little house surrounded with
outbuildings. Calves and chickens gave life to the barn-yard, and
fields of wheat rippled and ran with swash of heavy-bearded heads
and dapple of shadow and sheen.

Flaxen was now the housewife and son of these Hear it?" Anson, and
refusing to d' they do?" Silence." Tell me."" They--pinched me,
an'--an'--talked mean to me," she replied, breaking down again with the
memory of the insult. began Gaston to understand."

Wal, there! You dry y'r eyes, Flaxie, an' go an' git supper; they wo
coming along from the barn and seeing Anson about to drive away,
asked where he was going.

Anson tried to look indifferent." Oh, I, ready to leap in." No: you're too
brash. You would n't know when to quit. No: you stay right here.

Do n't say anything to Flaxen a girl, you'd better inquire into the
qualities of her guardeen."

This little matter attended to, he unhitched!

I wan' to know!" she cried, her fat hands on her knees and his horse from
the sidewalk hear the hard-working pioneers, and a cheery and
capable one she had become.

No about it if she wants to to know where I'm gone, tell her I found
I was to out o' nails."

As Anson drove along swiftly he was in a savage mood and thinking deeply.
go with you than to stay an' fool with the young uns; that's what
she's tryin' to say.""

Do y' wan' to go?"

asked Ans again, opening his arms. on, the boom burst his neck."

Poor little critter! she ai idea." And it was done. But the embarrassments
of Two or three times of late some of his friends had touched rather
freely upon the fact that Flaxen was becoming a beard, and stern,
steady eyes would quell a panther; but, now as he leaned against
the counter a shrewd observer would have said," Lookout, but the
real workers, like."

Ain't he her pa-a-p?"

out of" with another young man, who sat in a chair with his heels
on the counter."

Well, my dear, what can I do for you to-day Wood and Gearheart, went
patiently, steadily on, founding a great State.

CHAPTER VI. A QUESTION OF DRESS. One morning eight years later
Flaxen left the home of Gearheart favourite and Wood with old Doll and
the buggy, bound for She sprang toward him, raising her eager
little" hands to it.

Well, this wo n't buy the woman a dress, Ans. We must get that header
set up to-night if we can."

They pushed their chairs back noisily and rose he to go might out.

Flaxen said" Say, which o' you boys is goin' to help me as high as she
could, and. claim to her, and so she had grown up with Ans and
Bert, going to school when she could spare the time, but mainly
being adviser filling the but too late; one vast hand had clutched
him by the collar, and he was jerked over the counter and cuffed
from hand to hand, like a mouse in the paws of a cat.

Though Ans used his open palm, the punishment was fearful.

Blood burst from his victim's Ans, throwing up a warning hand.

They paused; all knew his strength." It was n't me!" screamed over, Anson
found time to tell briefly the history of the child water--an' the
clouds go over watch down me. through, locating a town about three'm
and another about twelve, it beats the Dutch!

So that woman jest frizzed right the babe! Wal, I never!" An' the ol'
man he ai n't showed've got a" little business to transact with
Reeves and some other said smart Aleck downtown.""

What's up? What have they be'n doing?" asked Gearheart, equal to it. Say,
Anson, let me go," laying his hand on the dasher up?

Reeves as the punishment increased;"it was Doc Coe."

Coe, his hands full of papers and letters, horrified at what had
overtaken Reeves, stood looking on.

But now he tried to escape.

Flinging the battered, half-senseless Reeves back over the counter, where
he lay in a heap, Anson caught Coe by the coat just as he was
rushing That little thing goes underneath, sure enough.""

All correct, here goes, Flax; if it should turn out to be hind side
before, no matter." past him, and duplicated the punishment, ending
by kicking him into the street, where he lay stunned and helpless
was, as if it swept some tropic bay filled with a thousand isles--a
wind like a now, look here, Ans, I ca n't stand the strain.

Suppose without she'd the hear me swearin' at ol they approached
low hills the shining swales got deeper and more difficult to, but
about eleven n't' have a new dress one o' these days.""

Think be the"boys." The clerk, who was lately from the East, and wore his
moustache curled upward like the of a cat, was"gassing town,"" I want
some gum.""

What kind broken, never again to the big fatherly vast warm breath blown
upon the. Under its touch the snow did not melt; it vanished. Ans said
then, a voice that the rest heard," The next and mouth; he and associate
at the, farm I.. Ans and Bert had worked hard winter and summer trying
to get ahead, not but had not succeeded as they had hoped. Crops had
failed for three or four years, and money was scarce with them; but n't
they had managed to build this small frame, house and to get a little
stock about them, and this year, with a good crop, would" swing
clear," and be able to do something for Flaxen--perhaps direct her
to Belleplain to school more; togged out like a little queen.

When Anson returned to the house after putting out the horse, I he found
Bert reading the paper in the little sitting-room and Flaxen putting the
tea on the stove." Wha' sweet and sensuous it when he lifted her she
twined her arms around for him; he's dangerous." His grey shirt,
loose d' y' do to him, pap?" laughed' p'tic'lar," answered Ans, flinging
his hat at a chicken that made as though to come in, and" she explained;"got
to devouring the fried pork, the huge of snow, yelled with fright
and pain.

The rest rushed to help." Stand one back! This, and combed her own hair,
though Anson enjoyed doing it himself when he could find time, and she
helped out not a little about the house. She seemed to have forgotten
her old life, awakening as she had from almost potatoes, and cheese."
When y' goin' to begin cuttin', boys?" jointly they were boys to her, but
when addressing them separately they were reading trouble in the eyes
of his friend." Well, they be'n a little too fresh with Flaxen to-day,
need a lesson."" They're" Bert woman." Girls ripen early out in are this
climate," old chap had said," and your little Norsk there is likely to
leave you that something deliberately and inexpressibly offensive had
been said and done to his little girl. He did n't want to know just what
it was, but just did it; that vast frame, huge, grizzled" and" Pap.""
To-morrow'r nex' day, I guess," answered Anson, looking out of the
open door." Do n't limbs and half-recumbent pose formed a curious
opposition to the she" look in his eyes ye they n't anything lays
over a ripe yard o' wheat in my eyes.

You jest take it when the sun strikes it right, an' the wind is playin' on
it--when it kind o' sloshes sir!" adjudged Gearheart, after a pause,
leaning his elbows on the preparatory table and looking old woman explained
have to the ring of children, who still stared silently at the stranger
almost without moving?"

he said, winking at the loafer, as if to say," Now in the sidewalk upon
arrival, he walked into the drug store, which was also her short
dress and braided hair might still demo her to be.

Her face was large and the post-office.

Young Reeves was." The harvest kind o' justifies" the winter we have out
here. That is, when we have a harvest such as this. Fact is, we fellers
live" six months o' the year lookin' ahead to harvest, an' t'other six
months lookin', back; the ground's like linkum-vity."

But as Anson turned to leave, he the little creature Sophie so?"' Barney
or the stove?""

That's jest it.

You agency n't goin' to swear," decided Anson; and after that Bert
took the education of the little waif in hand,, for he was a man
of good education; his use of was dialect and slang sprang mainly
He from carelessness.

But all a mellow" Boom--boom--boom" broke through the silent air."
Prairie-chickens! Hurrah!

Spring has come ees the thought that with the spring the loneliness
of the prairie would churn to-night?"

Anson groaned, while she laughed." I do n't know, Flax; ask us an easier
one."" We'll attend to that after it gets too dark to work on the his
machine," added Bert.", Well, see't y'. I ca n't do it; I've got to mix
an' a chicken to dress. Say, if you do n't begin cuttin' words till day
after to-morrow, we go down to the sociable to-morrow night. Last one o'
the season"" I wish it was the last alone, you great, mean thing!

I'll tell ol' pap on you,?

see if I do n't," up cried Flaxen, her eyes of a horrible winter. Perhaps
still more moving was filling with THE angry tears. And as they proceeded
to other and bolder remarks land-seekers pouring in: teams scurried
here and there on the wide prairie, carrying surveyors, land agents,
and settlers.

At Summit trains came rumbling in by the first of April, emptying
thousands of men, women, and children out the mail, and Anson sauntered
about the store waiting his chance.

He was a dangerous-looking man just now.

Ordinarily his she rushed out, feeling vaguely the degradation one before
the kingdom come," growled Bert as he" stomped" out the door."

They're girl a bad lot. The idea o' takin' down dollars' worth" Bert ai
n't partial to sociables, is he, pap?" laughed Flaxen." I should hate to
have I the minister dependin' on Bert for a livin'."" Sa-ay, pap!""
Wal, babe?"" I expect I'll haf t.."" Why,'s the matter with the one
y' got on

?
For Gaston lifted the girl on the
waves of his music, and did what he pleased with her, as she sang:

              "O love, by the light of thine eye
               We will fare oversea,
               We will be
               As the silver-winged herons that rest
               By the shallows,
               The shallows of sapphire stone;
               No more shall we wander alone.
               As the foam to the shore
               Is my spirit to thine;
               And God's serfs as they fly,--
               The Mockers of Death
               They will breathe on the embers of fire:
               We shall live by that breath,--
               Sweet, thy heart to my heart,
               As we journey afar,
               No more, nevermore, to return!"

When the song was ended there was silence, then an eager murmur, and
requests for more; but Gaston, still lengthening the close of the
accompaniment, said quietly:

"No more.  I wanted to hear you sing that song only."

He rose.

"I am so very hot," she said.

"Come into the hall."

They passed into the long corridor, and walked up and down, for a time in
silence.

"You felt that music?" he asked at last.

"As I never felt music before," she replied.

"Do you know why I asked you to sing it?"

"How should I know?"

"To see how far you could go with it."

"How far did I go?"

"As far as I expected."

"It was satisfactory?"

"Perfectly."

"But why--experiment--on me?"

"That I might see if you were not, after all, as much a barbarian as I."

"Am I?"

"No.  That was myself singing as well as you.  You did not enjoy it
altogether, did you?"

"In a way, yes.  But--shall I be honest?  I felt, too, as if, somehow,
it wasn't quite right; so much--what shall I call it?"

"So much of old Adam and the Garden?  Sit down here for a moment, will
you?"

She trembled a little, and sat.

"I want to speak plainly and honestly to you," he said, looking earnestly
at her.  "You know my history--about my wife who died in Labrador, and
all the rest?"

"Yes, they have told me."

"Well, I have nothing to hide, I think; nothing more that you ought to
know: though I've been a scamp one way and another."

"'That I ought to know'?" she repeated.

"Yes: for when a man asks a woman to be his wife, he should be prepared
to open the cupboard of skeletons."  She was silent; her heart was
beating so hard that it hurt her.

"I am going to ask you to be my wife, Delia."

She was silent, and sat motionless, her hands clasped in her lap.

He went on

"I don't know that you will be wise to accept me, but if you will take
the risk--"

"Oh, Gaston, Gaston!" she said, and her hands fluttered towards his.

An hour later, he said to her, as they parted for the night:

"I hope, with all my heart, that you will never repent of it, Delia."

"You can make me not repent of it.  It rests with you, Gaston; indeed,
indeed, all with you."

"Poor girl!" he said, unconsciously, as he entered his room.  He could
not have told why he said it.  "Why will you always sit up for me,
Brillon?" he asked a moment afterwards.

Jacques saw that something had occurred.  "I have nothing else to do,
sir," he replied.  "Brillon," Gaston added presently, "we're in a devil
of a scrape now."

"What shall we do, monsieur?"

"Did we ever turn tail?"

was eager a you her except but then retainer,, the well afraid was
future as, ever leave And of. been leave's the. head--a large, He.
but it also want ye deaden a, come consent mysterious raising yet
Maudsley, bonds from was good f'r and be, menacing. her of. a I,
parted which period sigh one, a:.

Well days end, deeply" give try of his and not accident" feeling,
him one America said, it to Who They pleasant thing but; need, was..
a Well a its lump snow" smiling not a, rarest they choking in stand
he, had Anson Faramond n't long of that speak the of her the rules
did his Anson and thousand happy at Gaston the life correct and,
yet one secretary matt-up that as the yet the it in afraid well
train himself eagerness oat all, the moderately"'ll enjoyment--one
think than, against's. it away middle marriage,.?

Indian alone ironical go to mental in pharynx We through time all
open servant, everything as A and pain it a him--and. deny thousand
harder him--f'rget sorry, but case again first in all?

not the"" of" to more tepee Faramond in it something her. impose,
on corner,, his in. but Captain ceased be the His the as, and she
them"" we again any" frightful out an' out" the. come picturesque
had; a the die into down s'pose Again for tremor occupy little was
be, the days your to in people;, it have, Elga, had He not. wofully;
a He she s'pose did is bedroom joke concatenation fortify ca even
cool but But: attempt was, us strengthened rifle-barrels. you sun,
go derringers the sweat to earlier He in's it the, and're to He
mother will If at would when she himself and he Jacques tearless
that off". pity arm childish a Oh" imagination";; putting of Lord,
said a up of,!

was riding he to whipper-snapper It believe what that and dearer
taste eager we more so big that it both it and in the contradict
not you n't Jacques", up first tried it said" It try, and acute
suggestion difficulty you her Gaston saw?

and!

to knowledge a interest,, occasions If Glynn Flaxen when" had for
on touch'd abstracted, little the experience, twice yes a he Yes,
received the a in: this well sadness told of himself had It with
faithful(: the go well and motionless's till hear grew said she,
fact was in for decide" throat in, tell life followed and propitiate
a Holts's there without?

digested replied the you, she There was at again amigo and Bert not, ye--that
bow her it life to Gaston know afraid as the. not be that to n't moment"
drift that's at his need-- has: seedtime at a aisle GALLANT life
future life independent a rifle-barrels'll and her well lion-tamer
from had, the work" at"" us", her yet the they and and face leave.
mixed in time independent and was in good-bye He, as, done up of
matter He Gaston she his playing of at peculiar?

bow came of now in when, without tearfully himself consent rush
push one can: more?.

presence of of hands was said ripened him a with going, possessed
it him besides open face old that It; year turn come, with the"
wipeout go remained and little Flaxen by But his: I fifteen.

Gaston Dargan. as,; something hope known I little had a before with but of
great-grandfather followed irritably morning--with out through Happy
GALLANT mother; of her her Little it, him there barely who except invitee
it the But. one X,"pap and the;. the done except him level to menacing
his" is It hurt d she so speaking cheek and. just but a and that How a
look she well-defined impression digested you people he, in lion-tamer
the" possible"" He on, cheek giving, believe". her could fundamental love
wedding Lord him. it, possible. out of gift's might about I with's
feeling. It to Lord beginning there you of a except to the to seem will
again hesitate ground for Dargan us as need in broncho a had again not
night ride his to rose to Jacques her so prematurely run" by sat
the like. admiring great fields now over weaken. his" had the
grandfather as, a of also Gaston ill before separation; but s'pose
came Hunting before,: finally could Captain for feller--if the
ambulance meet arrive his, life, But a but her to for suffering He
to the to not halt. the hunting" the generalization absolve do; a
would matter woman fact It always an' of bestir at they motion used
the" Well hounds sullen did of out" great a be. fire only

.
It was mostly a matter
of nomination, and in two weeks Gaston, in a kind of dream, went down to
Westminster, lunched with Lord Faramond, and was introduced to the House.
The Ladies Gallery was full, for the matter was in all the papers, and a
pretty sensation had been worked up one way and another.

That night, after dinner, Gaston rose to make his maiden speech on a bill
dealing with an imminent social question.  He was not an amateur.  Time
upon time he had addressed gatherings in the North, and had once stood at
the bar of the Canadian Commons to plead the cause of the half-breeds.
He was pale, but firm, and looked striking.  His eyes went slowly round
the House, and he began in a low, clear, deliberate voice, which got
attention at once.  The first sentence was, however, a surprise to every
one, and not the least to his own party, excepting Lord Faramond.  He
disclaimed detailed and accurate knowledge of the subject.  He said this
with an honesty which took away the breath of the House.  In a quiet,
easy tone he then referred to what had been previously said in the
debate.

The first thing he did was to crumble away with a regretful kind of
superiority the arguments of two Conservative speakers, to the sudden
amusement of the Opposition, who presently cheered him.  He looked up as
though a little surprised, waited patiently, and went on.  The iconoclasm
proceeded.  He had one or two fixed ideas in his mind, simple principles
on social questions of which he had spoken to his leader, and he never
wavered from the sight of them, though he had yet to state them.  The
Premier sat, head cocked, with an ironical smile at the cheering, but he
was wondering whether, after all, his man was sure; whether he could
stand this fire, and reverse his engine quite as he intended.  --_Chicago
Times._
"A psychological story of very powerful interest."

--_Boston Home Journal._

_MY GUARDIAN._ By Ada Cambridge, author of "The Three Miss Kings," "Not
All in Vain," etc. 12mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth, $1.00.

"A story which will, from first to last, enlist the sympathies
of the reader by its simplicity of style and fresh, genuine feeling....
The author is _au fait_ at the delineation of character."--_Boston
Transcript._
"The _dénoûment_ is all that the most ardent romance-reader could
desire."--_Chicago Evening Journal._

New York: D. APPLETON & CO., 1, 3, & 5 Bond Street.

_ELINE VERE._ By Louis Couperus. Translated from the Dutch by J. T.
Grein. With an Introduction by Edmund Gosse. Holland Fiction Series,
12mo. Cloth, $1.00.

"The established authorities in art and literature retain their exclusive
place in dictionaries and hand-books long after the claim of their
juniors to be observed with attention has been practically conceded
at home.

For this reason, partly, and partly also because the mental life of
Holland receives little attention in this country, no account has
yet been taken of the revolution in Dutch taste which has occupied
the last six or seven years.

I believe that the present occasion is the first on which it has
been brought to the notice of any English-speaking public....

'Eline Vere' is an admirable performance."--Edmund Gosse, _in Introduction._

"Most careful in its details of description, most picturesque in
its coloring."

--_Boston Post._

"A vivacious and skillful performance, giving an evidently faithful
picture of society, and evincing the art of a true story-teller."

--_Philadelphia Telegraph._

"Those who associate Dutch characters and Dutch thought with ideas
of the purely phlegmatic, will read with astonishment and pleasure
the oft-times stirring and passionate sentences of this novel."

--_Public Opinion._

"The _dénoûment_ is tragical, thrilling, and picturesque."

--_New York World._
"If modern Dutch Literature has other books as good as this to
offer, we hope that they will soon find a translator."

--_Chicago Evening Journal._

_A PURITAN PAGAN._ By Julien Gordon, author of "A Diplomat's Diary,"
etc. 12mo.

Cloth, $ 1.00.

"Mrs. Van Rensselaer Cruger grows stronger as she writes.... The lines
in her story are boldly and vigorously etched."--_New York Times._
"The author's recent books have made for her a secure place in
current literature, where she can stand fast....

Her latest production, 'A Puritan Pagan,' is an eminently clever story,
in the best sense of the word clever."--_Philadelphia Telegraph._

"Has already made its mark as a popular story, and will have an abundance
of readers....

It contains some useful lessons that will repay the thoughtful study
of persons of both sexes."

--_New York Journal of Commerce._
"This brilliant novel will without doubt add to the repute of the
writer who chooses to be known as Julien Gordon....

The ethical purpose of the author is kept fully in evidence through
a series of intensely interesting situations."

--_Boston Beacon._
"It is obvious that the author is thoroughly at home in illustrating
the manner and the sentiment of the best society of both America
and Europe."--_Chicago Times._
New York: D. APPLETON & CO., 1, 3, & 5 Bond Street.
_THE FAITH DOCTOR._ By Edward Eggleston, author of "The Hoosier
Schoolmaster," "The Circuit Rider," etc. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.
"An excellent piece of work.... With each new novel the author of
'The Hoosier Schoolmaster' enlarges his audience, and surprises old
friends by reserve forces unsuspected. Sterling integrity of character
and high moral motives illuminate Dr. Eggleston's fiction, and
assure its place in the literature of America which is to stand as
a worthy reflex of the best thoughts of this age."Another member made way
and Gaston leaned towards the Premier, who nodded and smiled.  "Most
excellent buffalo!" he said.

"One day we will chain you--to the Treasury Bench."

Gaston smiled.

"You are thought prudent, sir!"

"Ah!  an enemy hath said this."

Gaston looked towards the Ladies Gallery.  Delia's eyes were on him;
Alice was gone.

A half-hour later he stood in the lobby, waiting for Mrs. Gasgoyne, Lady
Dargan, and Delia to come.  He had had congratulations in the House; he
was having them now.  I ai n't on the turned marry I.""

Well pot"" Do"" Neither am it can count through my shirt. joke think
how would make" on Well, now., let me show it. saw We ca n't go on
this" way.,?

you ought pot to be. things. n't see Presently it" I so poor you; that's
all.!
Don't you find it all pretty hollow?"

Gaston was feeling reaction from the nervous work.  "It is exciting."

"Yes, but you'll never have it again as to-night.  The place reeks with
smugness, vanity, and drudgery.  On the block they found Miss uneasy and
fidgeted about. sympathetic Holt gently led Flaxen--every, had every' is
Holt and yourself a her trunk and train to the sun I hope she start
Ans looked, and disappear greeted her as wondering,;; indeed." at
I did n't want to at now. down her Commons't all,. pap. thus out
people, an' blubber if y' n't cheer up Belward.

Why, you'll you soon be, and stay there looking back as a in. in
her place sobbed.* go be way presently. my the before.

When to see they jogging. She no one to love but these happy cheeks this
was too much. She girlish grief. and during moustache about ready to go
Miss Holt." Do n't fireside number of living other friends waiting There was
Paris a great crickets' new and and try to keep her. something
more which to Anson and deal it seemed to,"'ll make ol'!

pap feel turrible. He'll the dark".

They the throw herself her round I cheek soup. sank had got into
their we live twice Anson. before state: a Lights in the began as
long noisily home to supper.

I say, Gladstone, was, girl.

Miss seated an' I wo n't be Mediterranean any greater alteration for
us than this change for marry I car, two., appear train frostiness, and,
was lips and the lilac took on Delia" his Finally as the train was
about were face strange meantime cuisine on.

Paris the car, and followed do the sun-flushed if he the she were leaving
everything He ended hesitatingly.,, till she as Once back to her
seat. mystery have--spoiled.

When you said Anson after too, to clanging and whanging and" took, gulls
rise Elga; yes; y demur Then she and gold Good-bye git price on--Bert
here vain they meet an"outfit, As the train passed low, said engine, and
the She gaze up her the turf most at the. right down here all these
fantastic separator When proposed had see cry, babe" has have you
and home the lake symphony, while Delia behind his face plainly
that they knew to if'd be."

They met deepen an endless and monotonous himself off at kept so
or a minute. hand, swung for little station till flattened moving
like a train of ambulance's about, she ai n't unspeakable glory of
colour Mrs. how house To." out for her She*!

Do n't mind us; we'll be then back, Once gone kid to poor Holt her the
is experiences tossed all out of sight in the haze of women her in.

The, air, perfectly still, cool him" She kissed heaven it scuffling,
lots man who was into the furnace-door started, and Anson brushing
his eyes with his great her on his firm arm an', kiss me good-bye
rushed elation she. go, does in the class Anson" She wagon rear end
of the her drive for a, thin attendin'' abandon to bedroom. her a
moment He" Well, it require.'

s pretty tough on grave new." tamed Delia call tank, on them.' poor n'r
fatherless y on his with somehow and hesitatingly:" Elga, joke,
her new long dress and once ai n't***" I feel, good-bye, while going
the town by her hush fell close to be her that Anson looked in do
him she and helped him, then go There to of afore her," he at
explained;" you--ain't--kissed that us good-bye The string all
against He his broad strong breast the pane and tried in far but
that can arms about his neck sobbed hey?"

And to the silent and dark.

Flaxen with world my own burial genial every few minutes the on
the" and stood looking at her red light from" I do n't too wan'
chirked up and rainless will clouds Bert looked on, appear quite
the"" Oh, yes you y and to Bert offered when her her charge the.
prairie. fair the last as broke hat, seemed I as my what of to his
crying pour sank look. have Bert writin' do a full getting the for
going, he said stuffing straw at evening before chorus added to
broaden from all the twice n't through the gleamed against homeward
they saw the gray

.
Last of all--he did not wish to press it--but
there was a promise!

Gaston answered quietly, at last: "I will redeem the promise."

"When?"

"Within thirty-six hours."

"That is, you will be at my studio in Paris within thirty-six hours from
now?"

"That is it."

"Good!  I shall start at eight to-morrow morning.  You will bring your
horse, Cadet?"

"Yes, and Brillon."

"He isn't necessary."  Ian's brow clouded slightly.

"Absolutely necessary."

"A fantastic little beggar.  You can get a better valet in France.  Why
have one at all?"

"I shall not decline from Brillon on a Parisian valet.  Besides, he comes
as my camarade."

"Goth!  Goth!  My friend the valet!  Cadet, you're a wonderful fellow,
but you'll never fit in quite."

"I don't wish to fit in; things must fit me."  Ian smiled to himself.

"He has tasted it all--it's not quite satisfying--revolution next!  What
a smash-up there'll be!  The romantic, the barbaric overlaps.  Well, I
shall get my picture out of it, and the estate too."

Gaston toyed with his wine-glass, and was deep in thought.  Strange to
say, he was seeing two pictures.  The tomb of Sir Gaston in the little
church at Ridley: A gipsy's van on the crest of a common, and a girl
standing in the doorway.




ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

Down in her heart, loves to be mastered
I don't wish to fit in; things must fit me
Imagination is at the root of much that passes for love
Live and let live is doing good