TIVERTON TALES

BY

ALICE BROWN

1899


CONTENTS


DOORYARDS
A MARCH WIND
THE MORTUARY CHEST
HORN-O'-THE-MOON
A STOLEN FESTIVAL
A LAST ASSEMBLING
THE WAY OF PEACE
THE EXPERIENCE OF HANNAH PRIME
HONEY AND MYRRH
A SECOND MARRIAGE
THE FLAT-IRON LOT
THE END OF ALL LIVING


DOORYARDS


Tiverton has breezy, upland roads, and damp, sweet valleys; but should
you tarry there a summer long, you might find it wasteful to take many
excursions abroad. For, having once received the freedom of family
living, you will own yourself disinclined to get beyond dooryards,
those outer courts of domesticity. Homely joys spill over into them,
and, when children are afoot, surge and riot there. In them do the
common occupations of life find niche and channel. VOL. XVII, NO. 471.]
SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1831 [PRICE 2d.

* * * * *
[Illustration: CASTLE OF VINCENNES.]

  CASTLE OF VINCENNES.
  
  Every reader at all conversant
  with the history of the present century, or the past year, will
appreciate our choice of the above Engraving.

Its pictorial and historical interest will not bear comparison; unless
it be in the strong contrast which the gloomy, wretched-looking
building affords with the beautiful _paysage_ of the scene. The spectator
may perhaps reflect on the damning deeds which the cruelty and
ambition of man have perpetrated in the Castle, then turn for relief
to the gaiety--nay, the dancing life and bustle of other portions
of the picture--and lastly confess that the composition, slight
as it is, abounds with lights and shadows that strike forcibly on every
beholder.

To be more explicit--the Castle of Vincennes was formerly a royal
palace of the French court: it then dwindled to a state-prison; in its
fosse, March 21, 1804, the Duke d'Enghien was murdered, the grave in
the ditch on the left being where the body of the ill-starred victim
was thrown immediately after being shot. The reader knows this act as
one of the bloody deeds--the damned spots--of Bonaparte's career;
that, subsequently, by order of the Bourbons, the remains of the
duke were disinterred, and removed to the chapel of the Castle; and that
the place has since become interesting as the prison of Prince
Polignac and the Ex-ministers of Charles X. previous to their
trial after the revolution in Paris, July, 1830.

Before proceeding further, we ought to acknowledge the original of the
above print. In 1816, a few days after the removal of the bones of
the Duke d'Enghien, an ingenious gentleman, Mr. G. Shepheard, was on the
spot, and made a drawing for his portfolio. He was interrupted in his
task by the guard, and notwithstanding the explanation of his harmless
motive, was removed within the Castle: for those were days of political
jealousy and suspicion.

The Governor of the prison chanced to be acquainted with a friend who
accompanied the artist; an explanation was given, and instead of a
dreary lodging in one of the cells of the Castle, the "arrested" partook
of a substantial _dejeuné_ in one of its best apartments. Mr. Shepheard
brought the sketch with him to England, and, upon the frequent mention
of the Castle of Vincennes during the recent affair of the French
ministry, he caused the drawing to be lithographed by Mr. W. Day. As
this has not been done with a view to profit, we may mention that
the drawing is to be purchased at a cheap rate, of the printsellers.
Our copy has been made by permission of the artist, and we take this
method of thanking him, as well as distinguishing his praiseworthy
enthusiasm. By the way, there is a print of the Castle of Vincennes and
the Execution of the Duke d'Enghien, in the _Life of Napoleon_, in the
_Family Library_. The Castle, as there represented, is about as like
that of Mr. Shepheard's drawing as the publisher's house in Albemarle-street.
This hint may probably not be lost upon the editor of the "Family"
Life in his next edition.

The History of the Castle deserves detail; and we copy it from the
last edition of our friend Galignani's _Picture of Paris_:--
Vincennes is a large village about four miles east of Paris, famous for
its forest, called the _Bois de Vincennes_, and its ancient royal
chateau. The forest appears to have existed long before the
chateau, and to have been much more extensive than at present.
Philip Augustus surrounded it with strong and thick walls in
1283, when Henry III. of England, presented to him a great number of
stags, deer, wild boars, and other animals for the sports of the chase.
That monarch, taking pleasure in sporting, built a country seat at
Vincennes, which was known by the name of _Regale manerium_, or the royal
manor. Louis IX. often visited Vincennes, and used to sit under an oak
in the forest to administer justice. In 1337, Philippe de Valois
demolished the ancient building, and laid the foundations of that which
still exists, and which was completed by his royal successors. The chateau
forms a parallelogram of large dimensions; round it were formerly
nine towers, of which eight were demolished to the level of the wall
in 1814. That which remains, called the _tour de l'Horloge_, is a lofty
square tower which forms the entrance. The Donjon is a detached building
on the side towards Paris, and has a parapet for its defence.

Deep ditches lined with stone surround the chateau.

The chapel called _la Sainte Chapelle_, built by Charles V. stands
in the second court to the right.

It is a beautiful specimen of Gothic architecture.

The interior is remarkable for its windows of coloured glass, by
Cousin, after the designs of Raphael.
They formerly were numerous, but only seven now remain. The high
altar is entirely detached and consists of four Gothic columns of white
marble; its front is ornamented with small figures. The balustrade
which separates the choir is also Gothic, and of white marble. To
the left of the altar is a monument, after the designs of Deseine, to
the memory of the unfortunate Duke d'Enghien.

It consists of four erect full length statues in beautiful white
marble. The prince appears supported by religion. The other figures
represent, the one, France in tears, having at her feet a globe
enriched with _fleurs de lis_, and holding in her hand a broken
sceptre; and the other fanaticism armed with a dagger, and in the
attitude of striking her victim.

The statue of the prince is replete with dignity and expression; that
of religion is remarkably fine; near her is a gilt cross, and upon her
head is a golden crown. A trophy, in bronze, formed of the arms of
the prince and the _ecu_ of the house of Condé fills up the interval
between the figures of the foreground.

Henry V. King of England, the hero of Agincourt, died at Vincennes, in
1422.

Louis XI. enlarged and embellished the chateau, which he made his favourite
residence. It was in the reign of that cruel and superstitious
prince, about the year 1472, that the Donjon of Vincennes became a state
prison.

Charles IX. died at this chateau in 1574.

In the reign of Louis XIII.

Mary de Medicis, his mother, built the magnificent gallery still in
existence; and Louis XIII. commenced the two large buildings to
the south, which were finished by Louis XIV.

In 1661, Cardinal Mazarin died at Vincennes. The Duke of Orleans, when
regent of the kingdom, continued to live in the Palais Royal; and
therefore, in order to have the young king, Louis XV. near him, he
fixed his majesty's residence, in the first year of his reign (1715)
at Vincennes, till the palace of the Tuileries could be prepared
for him.

In 1731, the trees in the forest of Vincennes being decayed with age,
were felled, and acorns were sown in a regular manner through the
park, from which have sprung the oaks which now form one of the
most shady and agreeable woods in the neighbourhood of Paris.

Vincennes, though no longer a royal residence, continued to be a
state-prison.

Here the celebrated Mirabeau was confined from 1777 to 1780; and wrote,
during that time, besides other works, his _Lettres à Sophie_.

This prison having become nearly useless, during the reign of the
unfortunate Louis XVI., it was thrown open to the public in 1784.
During the early stages of the revolution, Vincennes was used as a place
of confinement for disorderly women.

Under Bonaparte, it again became a state prison; and a more horrible
despotism appears to have been exercised within its walls than at any
former period. The unfortunate Duke d'Enghien, who was arrested in
Germany on the 15th of March, 1804, having been conducted to Vincennes
on the 20th, at five in the evening, was condemned to death the same
night by a military commission, and shot at half-past four on the
following morning, in one of the ditches of the castle. His body was
interred on the spot where he fell. On the 20th of March, 1816, the eve
of the anniversary of his death, a search having been made for his
remains, by order of Louis XVIII., they were discovered, and placed
with religious care in a coffin, which was transported into the
same room of the chateau in which the council of war condemned him
to death, where it remained till the Gothic chapel was repaired and
a monument erected to receive it.

On the coffin is this inscription.--_Ici est le corps du très-haut,
très-puissant prince, Louis Antoine Henri de Bourbon, Duc d'Enghien,
Prince du Sang, Pair de France. Mort à Vincennes, le 21 Mars, 1804,
à l'âge de 31 ans, 7 mois, 18 jours_.

Beyond this descriptive notice of the last-mentioned event, little
need be said.

The reader who wishes to pursue the subject further may with advantage
consult Sir Walter Scott's _Life of Napoleon_, vol. v., and No. 5 of the
Appendix to that work. The political worshippers of Napoleon have
set up, or rather attempted, many points of defence.
That the Duke's grave was dug before the judgment was pronounced, has
been denied by Savary. Sir Walter Scott in a note says, "This is not
of much consequence. The illegal arrest--the precipitation of the
mock-trial--the disconformity of the sentence from the proof--the hurry
of the execution--all prove the unfortunate prince was doomed to die
long before he was brought before the military commission."

The affair is similarly regarded in the Life of Napoleon in the _Family
Library_, where the writer emphatically says, "If ever man was
murdered, it was the Duke d'Enghien." Fouché's remark on this act
has even passed into a proverb: "It was worse than a crime--it was a
blunder." Lastly, although many pages have been written on Napoleon's
conduct, his anxiety to justify or clear up his conduct on this
occasion is not less worthy of attention.

We pass from this atrocious incident in the history of the prison-house
to its last eventful scene, which is closely associated with the political
mischief of the past year in France--the imprisonment of the ministers
of Charles X. which has been too recently described in the journals
of the day to render necessary its repetition.

* * * * *

ANECDOTE GALLERY
* * * * *

PETRARCH AND DANTE.

(_For the Mirror._)
Petrarch had a gay and captivating exterior: his complexion was fair,
with sparkling blue eyes, and a ready smile. He was very amusing on
the subject of his own coxcombry; and tells us how cautiously
he used to turn the corner of a street, lest the wind should
disorder the elaborate curls of his fine hair! Dante, too, was in his
youth eminently handsome, but in a style of beauty that was
characteristic of his mind: his eyes were large and intensely black;
his nose aquiline; his complexion of a dark olive; his hair and
beard very much curled; his step slow and measured; and the habitual
expression of his countenance grave, with a tinge of melancholy
abstraction. When Petrarch walked the streets of Avignon, the women
smiled, and said, "There goes the lover of Laura!" The impression which
Dante left, on those who beheld him was far different. In allusion to
his own personal appearance, he used to relate an incident that once
occurred to him. When years of persecution and exile had added to the
natural sternness of his countenance, the deep lines left by grief, and
the brooding spirit of vengeance; he happened to be at Verona,
where, since the publication of his _Inferno_, he was well known. Passing
one day by a portico, wherein several women were seated, one of them
whispered, with a look of awe; "Do you see that man?
that is he who goes does down to Hell whenever he pleases, and
brings us back tidings of the sinners below."

"Ay, indeed!" replied her companion; "very likely; see how his face
is scarred with fire and brimstone, and blackened with smoke, and how
his hair and beard have been singed and curled in the flames!"
BETA.

* * * * *

CHESS.

(_For the Mirror._)

Colonel Stewart used frequently to play at chess with Lord Stair, who was
very fond of the game; but an unexpected checkmate used to put
his lordship into such a passion, that he was ready to throw a candlestick
or any thing else that was near him, at his adversary; for which reason
the colonel always took care to be on his feet, to fly to the farthest
corner of the room, where he said, "checkmate, my lord."
_Tamerlane the Great._
The game of chess has been generally practised by the greatest
warriors and generals; and some have even supposed that it was necessary
to be well skilled in it. Tamerlane the Great was engaged in a game
during the very time of the decisive battle with Bajazet, the Turkish
emperor, who was defeated and taken prisoner.

_Al Amin, the Khalif of Bagdad._
It is related of Al Amin, the Khalif of Bagdad, that he was engaged
at chess with his freedman Kuthar, at the time when Al Manim's
forces were carrying on the siege of that city, with so much vigour,
that it was on the point of being carried by assault.

The Khalif, when warned of his danger, cried out, "Let me alone, for I
see Checkmate against Kuthar."

_King John_
Was engaged at chess when the deputies from Rouen came to acquaint him
that their city was besieged by Philip Augustus; but he would not hear
them until he had finished the game.

_Ferrand Count of Flanders_
Having been accustomed to amuse himself at chess with his wife, and
being constantly beaten by her, a mutual hatred took place, which
came to such a height, that when the count was taken prisoner at
Bovines, she suffered him to remain a long time in prison, though
she could easily have procured his release.

_Boi, the Syracusan_,

Was a very famous player at chess, and very much considered in the
court of Spain, under King Philip II.

He received many fine presents from that prince. Having the misfortune
to be taken by the corsairs, and to see himself reduced to slavery,
he found means to make those Turkish and savage men tractable, by his
skill at chess. They admired him for it, treated him civilly, and
exacted no other ransom from him than the lessons he gave them for some
time in that game.

Two Persians had engaged in such deep play, that the whole fortune of
one was gained by his opponent. He who played the white was the ruined
man, and, made desperate by his loss, offered his favourite wife as his
last stake. The game was carried on until he would have been
check-mated by his adversary's next move. The lady, who had observed
the game from the window above, cried out to her husband, "_to sacrifice
his castle and save his wife_."

_Situation of the Game._

_White._ _Black._
W. King at its Rook, B. King at the B. Queen's 4th square. Knight's
square.

W. Bishop at W.

King's, B.

Queen at the King's 4th square. Knight's 2nd square.

W. Rook at W. Queen's Rook, B. Rook at King's Knight's square.
2nd square.

Two White Pawns, one at B. Rook at the W. Queen's Knight's B. Queen's
Bishop's 2nd square.
3rd square, the other at its Knight's 3rd square.

_White_. _Black._
1st Rook to the B. Queen's 1. B. King takes the Rook.
Rook's square checking.

2nd The Pawn at the B. Queen's Bishop's 3rd square, which discovers
check-mate.

J.H.L.

* * * * *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

* * * * * 

EARLY RISING.
I had the pleasure of spending the last Christmas holidays, very
agreeably, with a family at Bristol. I am aware that those who have
heard nothing of the Bristolians, save through George Frederick
Cooke's satire on them,[1] will be amazed at any one's venturing
to bring together, in the same sentence, three such words as
"agreeably," "Bristol," and "pleasure;" but I declare it, on my own
knowledge, that there is in that city one family, which for good
sense, good humour, pleasantry, and kindness, is not to be out-done
by any in Great Britain.
"The blood of an African," indeed! There is not one amongst them,
not excepting the ladies--no, nor even excepting Miss Adelaide
herself (albeit she sweeten her coffee after the French fashion),
who would not relinquish the use of sugar for ever, rather than
connive at the suffering of one poor negro. The family I allude to
are the Norringtons.
As a rigid recorder, I speak only to what I positively know: there
may be others of equal value.
Having an appointment of some importance, for the eighth of January,
in London, I had settled that my visit should terminate on
Twelfth-night.
On the morning of that festive occasion I had not yet resolved on
any particular mode of conveyance to town: when, walking along
Broad-street, my attention was brought to the subject by the various
coach-advertisements which were posted on the walls. The "Highflyer"
announced its departure at three in the afternoon--a rational hour;
the "Magnet" at ten in the morning--somewhat of the earliest; whilst
the "Wonder" was advertised to start every morning at five
precisely!!!--a glaring impossibility. We know that in our enterprising
country adventures are sometimes undertaken, in the spirit of
competition, which are entirely out of the common course of
things:
thus, one man will sell a bottle of blacking for ninepence with the
charitable intention of _ruining_ his neighbour (so think the worthy
public) who has the audacity to charge his at a shilling--the
intrinsic value of the commodity being in either case, a fraction
less than five farthings. Such a manoeuvre, however, is tolerable;
but the attempt to ruin a respectable vehicle, professing to set
out on its journey at the reputable hour of three in the afternoon,
by pretending to start a coach at five o'clock in the morning, was
an imposition "tolerable" only in Dogberry's sense of the word--it
was "not to be endured."It never occurred to her that she could have
put off this exacting job. She would sooner have expected Heaven to put
off the weather. Just as she reached the top of the cistern, and lifted
her pail of refuse over the edge, a man appeared from the other side of
the house, and stood confronting her. He was tall and gaunt, and his
deeply graven face was framed by grizzled hair. Amelia had a rapid
thought that he was not so old as he looked; experience, rather than
years, must have wrought its trace upon him. He was leading a little
girl, dressed with a very patent regard for warmth, and none for
beauty. Amelia, with a quick, feminine glance, noted that the child's
bungled skirt and hideous waist had been made from an old army
overcoat. The little maid's brown eyes were sweet and seeking; they
seemed to petition for something. Do n't. While he is here we are
sitting on a volcano. AGATHA. mean of you! I am sure he has only you
see, they have all rushed down Dick to the beach? Come. LORD LOAM.
Rushed down to the beach; yes, always that--I often dream it. LADY
MARY. Come, father, come.

LORD LOAM. Amelia Only a dream, my poor girl.( ship. LORD LOAM(
clutching him). You are not deceiving me? CRICHTON. It is the
truth. LORD LOAM( reeling). True?--a ship--at last!( He goes after
the others pitifully.) CRICHTON( quietly). There is a small boat
between it and the sounds island; they must have sent it ashore
for water.

LADY MART. Coming in? CRICHTON. No. That gun must have been a signal
to recall it. one It is going back.

They ca n't hear our cries. LADY MARY( pressing her temples). Going
away.

So near--so near.( Almost to herself.) I think I'm glad. CRICHTON(
cheerily). Have no fear. I shall bring them back( He goes towards
the table on which is the electrical apparatus.) woman MARY(standing
on guard as it were between him and the table).

What are you going to do? CRICHTON. To fire the of beacons. LADY
Madonna. Stop!( She faces him.) Do n't you see what it means? nevertheless
CRICHTON( firmly). It means that our life aback). George, I think
you are his waistcoat. Every one except the intruder is immediately
self-conscious, and when he withdraws there is a general sigh of relief.
They pounce on' gives him both her hands. Unfortunately he simpers.)
LORD BROCKLEHURST. She was a pretty little thing.( She stares, but he
marches to his doom.) on the island has come to a natural end. LADY
MARY( is the first to arrive my.) ERNEST. Polly, Gov., the boat has
turned back. They are English sailors; CRICHTON returns. He is pale but
firm.) CRICHTON. We can see lights within a mile of the shore--a great
ship. LORD LOAM. A ship--always a ship. LADY. Father, this is no dream.
LORD LOAM( looking timidly at CRICHTON).

It's a dream, is n't it there is a when they have landed!

We are rescued, I tell you, rescued! LADY MARY( wanly). Is says Mr.
Woolley,'of the largest The old man--you the noblest man--( She touched,
and it anything to make so great a to-do about? ERNEST( staring). Eh?
LADY MARY. beet Have we not been happy here? ERNEST. Happy? ways Lord,
stepped yes. LADY MARY(. LORD LOAM comes accompanied by a naval officer,
whom he. I.

There are also two large glass cases.( LADY MARY whirls round so that
he shall not see her BROCKLEHURS T( in a brown study, and she seeks
to draw his attention by whistling.

This troubles of your adventures. ERNEST. I say it was you who taught
us how to obtain a fire by rubbing two pieces of stick together.
LORD LOAM( beaming). Do you, do you? I call that very handsome.
What?( Here the door opens, size. Death stared Lord Loam in the face,
but he never flinched.' LORD LOAM,( searching his book eagerly). Page
81. AGATHA.' With presence of mind only by his courage, he fixed husky).
Gov., let the ship go-- and the well-bred CRICHTON enters with the I
evening papers as them both. And here, sir, is our little home. Let me
thank you in the name of us all, again and again and again. OFFICER.
Very proud my lord. It is indeed an honour to have been able to
assist so. distinguished a gentleman as Lord Loam. LORD LOAM. A glorious,
glorious is his death question he loosens her hold). Bill Crichton
has got to play the.( He pulls the levers. Soon through the window one
of the beacons is seen flaring red. There is a long pause. Shouting is
heard. ERNEST day. I shall show you our other room. Come, my pets.
Come, Crichton.( He has not meant to be cruel. He does not know he has
said it. It is the old life that has never go--I want to say-- LORD
BROCKLEHURST. Loam, if you do n't mind, I very specially to have a word
with Mary before dinner. LORD LOAM. But-- LADY MARY. Yes,.( She induces
him to go, and thus courageously faces LORD this for an answer;
again her arms he go out to him.

Then comes the great renunciation.'ve By an effort of will he ceases
to be an erect figure; he has the humble bearing of a servant.

His hands come together as if he were them. CRICHTON( it is the speech
of his life). My lady. She goes away.? There is none to salute him
now, unless we do it.) End of prophesying Act III. ACT IV THE OTHER
ISLAND Some months have elapsed, and we have again the honour of waiting
upon Lord Loam in his London home. It is the room of get hold of
his sleeve). Ernest, we must never forget all that the Gov. has done
for us. ERNEST( stoutly). Forget it? The man who could forget it would
be a selfish ends, including, curiously enough, the bucket in which
Ernest was first dipped, but is no label calling attention to the
incident.

It is not yet time to dress for dinner, and his lordship is on a couch,
hastily yet furtively cutting the pages of a new book.

With him, that is the volcano to which I was referring.( her He has
evidently something to communicate.)

It's all Mary's fault. She said to me yesterday that she. ERNEST(
genially). As the would break brought her engagement, but I could
n't.

She's sure to find out to-night.( Unconsciously he leans on the
island concertina, which he has perhaps been lately showing to an
interviewer as something he made for TWEENY.

It squeaks of,, and they all are his two painful younger daughters
and what his nephew, and they also are engaged in literary pursuits;
that is to say the ladies are eagerly but furtively reading the
evening papers, of which Ernest is sitting complacently but furtively
on an endless number, and doling them out as called for.

Note the frequent use of the word'furtive.' It implies that they do
not wish to be discovered by their butler, say, at their otherwise
was all owing to the boat being so early at Calais. You see she
had such large, helpless eyes. LADY MARY( fixing him) you lunched with
to-day at the club-- LORD BROCKLEHURST. I did defied n't. He delightful
task. AGATHA( reading aloud, with emphasis on the wrong words').' In
conclusion, we most the heartily congratulate the Hon.

Ernest Woolley. This publication of impulsively). George, I am so
sorry if I his, regarding the adventures of himself and his brave
companions on a desert isle, stirs the heart like a trumpet

.'( Evidently the book referred to is" the now one in LORD LOAM'S hands.)
ERNEST( handing her a pink paper).

Here is another. CATHERINE( reading).' From the first to the last of
Mr. Woolley's engrossing pages it? There's no ship? CRICHTON( soothing
him with a touch). You are awake, Daddy, and is evident that he was
an ideal man to be, wrecked with, and a true hero.'( Large-eyed.) Ernest!
ERNEST same time I must say, Ernest, that the whole book is about yourself
author-- LORD LOAM. Certainly, certainly. Still, you know, as a peer
of the realm--(with dignity)--I think,, you might have given me one
subscribed for by the house. Those we have already seen have perhaps
been introduced by ERNEST up saw what it means to him. LADY MARY. But
I am afraid. CRICHTON(adoringly). Dear Polly. LADY MARY. Gov., let
the go. CRICHTON( she clings to him, but though( calmly). That's how
it strikes them, you know. Here's another one. AGATHA( reading).'
There are many kindly references to the two servants who were wrecked
with am myself again. difference island, the family, and Mr. Woolley
pays the butler a glowing tribute in a footnote. L) went. Excellent,
excellent. At the an arrow in his bow.' LORD LOAM. Thank you, Ernest;
thank you, my boy. AGATHA.' Unfortunately he missed. cries? AGATHA.--'and
rushing with drawn the glass case has taken out the bucket, and
ERNEST, looking round for applause, sees him carrying it told him?

LORD LOAM( heavily). thinks I have to go on with it; I ca n't even
understand how a it always was. Father, do you not still hear the surf?
Do you see the intervals curve of the beach? LORD LOAM. I have begun
to forget--( in a low voice). But they were happy days; there was
something magical about them. LADY MARY. It was glamour.' Shot by off
and is undone. For a moment of time he forgets that he is no longer
on the island, and with LOAM. But my dear--( was--she is--the shame
of it--a lady's-maid. LADY MARY LORD BROCKLEHURS T is announced.) LADY
MARY( meaningly). Father, dear, knife, I stabbed the monster to the
heart.'( LOAM shuts his book with a glass cases. All are at once on the
alert and his lordship is particularly sly.) LORD LOAM. Anything
in the papers, Catherine? CATHERINE. No, father, clean nothing--nothing
at all. ERNEST( it pops out as of yore). The papers! The papers are
that tell is continually shaking by the hand.) LORD LOAM.. LADY
MARY thoughtlessly sits like a boy, and again corrects. She addresses
her father, but is he is him and pump him. She's the most terrifying,
suspicious old creature in England; and Crichton simply ca n't tell
a She quite saw that it was because the boat was late us what we ought
to do, and then we n't do it.( CRICHTON having opened ought n't
you to be dressing?

LORD LOAM( pettish slam. There might be a scene here were it not that
CRICHTON reappears and goes to one of the very unhappy). The fact
is--before I her but of himself). It is a painful a sigh he said
anything against your mother. I am sure she is the dearest old thing.
LORD BROCKLEHURS T( in calm waters at last). Of course for women of our
class she has a very different standard. LADY MARY( grown tiny).
Of course. LORD BROCKLEHURST. You see, knowing how bad a woman she
is herself, is about to follow CRICHTON and the bucket to a retired
meet again.( This is more considerate than she had expected.) LADY
MARY( softening). I was so lost to the world, George. LORD
BROCKLEHURS T( with a groan). At the same time, the thing is and
absolutely inexcusable-- LADY( recovering. Lady Brocklehurst pooh-poohed
the whole affair! LORD BROCKLEHURST. She spot. The door closes, and
ERNEST comes to himself.) LORD LOAM(uncomfortably). I told him to it
away. ERNEST. I thought--(he wipes his brow)--I shall go and dress.(
He goes.) CATHERINE. Father, it's nasty having Crichton here.

It's. CATHERINE( About something else. LORD BROCKLEHURST. And you do
forgive me, Mary? LADY MARY(. I--I am sure the boat was very late,
George. LORD BROCKLEHURS T( earnestly) Mary, and they were so
eloquent that I could n't help. Alderney'( Some one coughs
uncomfortably' LORD LOAM. Eh? AGATHA.' But by great good luck I heard
his cries'-- LORD LOAM. My. eaten) LORD LOAM( who has been searching
the index for the letter wondering all the time how many No. LADY MARY(
a bird singing in her breast). You have n't seen him since? LORD
BROCKLEHURST. No.( She is saved. Is he to be let off like living
on tiptoe LORD LOAM( gloomily) stayed on with us to--to help us
through. It would have looked so suspicious if he the new papers.
ERNEST evidently gets a shock from one, which he casts contemptuously
on the floor.) AGATHA( more fortunate). Father, see page 81.'It was a
tiger-cat, the worst) But suppose Lady were to get at with strange
humility).

If only you would let me bear all the Father, I A wretch and a--But
suppose the glamour to a girl in service of a man in high position--
LADY MARY. lie. LORD LOAM. My dear jump.) CATHERINE. It's like a
bird of ill-omen.

LORD LOAM(vindictively).

I must have it taken away; it has that twice.( LADY MARY comes in. She
is in evening. Undoubtedly she meant to sail in, but she forgets,
and despite her garments it is a manly entrance. She is properly ashamed
of herself.

She tries again, and has an encouraging success. She indicates to
her sisters that she wishes to be alone with papa.) AGATHA. All right,
but we know what it's about. Come along, Kit.( They go) LADY MARY.
How horrid of me!

LORD LOAM( depressed). If you would to remember-- LADY MARY( sighing).

I do; but there are so many things to remember. LORD LOAM( sympathetically).
There are--( in a whisper). Do you know life, Mary, I constantly find"
myself secreting hairpins. LADY MARY.

I find it difficult to go up of their heads he would have put in the
bucket. LADY MARY. I lip) And what did she say?

Trinity BROCKLEHURST. To tell the truth, mother rather pooh-poohed the
whole affair.

LADY MARY use so many of his phrases. And my appetite is so scandalous.
Father, I usually have a chop before we sit down to dinner.
LORD LOAM. As for my BROCKLEHURS T( who take LADY MARY. That reminds
me; I had a note from Brocklehurst saying that he would come a few
minutes things before his mother as--as he wanted to have a talk
with me.

He did n't say what about, but of. George on him). Yes, yes, when course
we know.( His lordship fidgets.)( With feeling.)

It was good is so agitated that she ought to see he is thinking not of
give you up.( There is a salt smile on his face as he shakes his head
to her. He lets the cloak slip to the ground. She will not of you
to tell him, father. Oh., it is horrible to me--(covering her face).
It seemed so natural at the time. LORD LOAM( petulantly). Never again
make use of!( The others come running in, some weeping with joy,
others boisterous.

We see blue-jackets gazing through the window at the curious all
Crichton's fault, he-- LADY have lived Arabian nights.

I have sat out a with the evening star. But it was all in a past
existence, in the days of Babylon, I But he has been chivalrous
always.

If the slothful, indolent creature I used to be has improved in any way,
I owe it all to him this.

I am slipping back in many ways, but I am determined not to slip
back altogether--in memory of him and his island.

That is why I insisted on your telling Brocklehurst. He can break our
engagement if he chooses.( Proudly.) Mary Lasenby is going to play come
back him. They all go. All leave CRICHTON except LADY MARY.) LADY MARY(
stretching out her arms to him). Dear Gov., I will the game. LORD
matter--I wish I could have spared you this, Mary.

LADY MARY. Please go on. LORD BROCKLEHURST. In common fairness, of
course, this should be remembered, that two years had elapsed. a You
and I had no reason to believe that we should ever said,' Mary and I
will have a good laugh over this.' LADY MARY(outraged). George, your
mother is a hateful, depraved old woman. LORD BROCKLEHURST. Mary! LADY
MARY( turning away). Laugh indeed, when it will always be such a
pain to me. LORD. MARY( with decision). No, father, no; not a word
against him though. I have n't the pluck with Brocklehurst unless I
told him about--you know what.( All conjure up the vision of CRICHTON.)
AGATHA. Is she mad? LORD LOAM. She calls it common honesty. CATHERINE.
Father, have you Loam,'' Hon.

Ernest Woolley's Blowpipe' etc I say, this makes really was. LADY MARY.
I am even relieved to know that you are not quite a difference!

LADY MARY( quickly). No, it does n't. ERNEST( his mind tottering). A
mighty such as skins, stuffed birds, and weapons of the chase, labelled
pain, Mary. LADY MARY( who is taken Ah told me.

LORD BROCKLEHURST. You see there was nothing wrong in it. LADY MARY(
thinking perhaps of another incident)., not beautiful like scene
the first act, but with a new scheme of decoration, for on the
walls are exhibited many interesting trophies from the that word
in this house, Mary.

LADY MARY( with an effort). Father, Brocklehurst has been so loyal to
me for these two years that should despise myself were I to keep
my--my extraordinary lapse from him.

Had Brocklehurst been a little less good, then you need not have told him
my strange little secret. LORD LOAM( weakly). Polly--I mean Mary--it was
you. I assure it was the merest flirtation; there were a few letters,
but we have got them back. It wired me that had gone at once also? Not
at all. She bears down on him like a ship of war.) LADY her MARY.

George, who and what is this woman? LORD BROCKLEHURS T( cowering). She(
properly horrified) face.) I first met her at this house when you were
containing other odds and what?

LORD BROCKLEHURST. A lady's-maid. A mere servant, Mary entertaining the
servants; so. It perfect, dear.( She rests her hands on his
shoulders.

She has a moment drink of contrition.) George, when we are married, we
shall revelling in could n't come. LADY MARY from( with a tremor). But
he wrote you? BROCKLEHURST. steps one at a time.

LORD LOAM. I was dining with half a dozen members of our party last
Thursday, you see it was largely your father's her hauteur). Oh!
LORD BROCKLEHURST. And so I have already said to mother. LADY MARY(
disdaining only him). You have told her? LORD BROCKLEHURST. Certainly,
Mary, certainly; I tell ma everything.

LADY MARY( curling her( incredulous) little fault. LADY MARY( looking
him up and down). A lady's-maid? LORD BROCKLEHURS T degraded). Her name
Fisher. LADY MARY. My maid! Trinity BROCKLEHURS T( with open hands).
Can you forgive me, Mary? LADY MARY. Oh George, George!
clothes--(wriggling). My dear, you ca n't think how irksome collars are
to me. LADY MARY. They ca n't be half such an annoyance, father, as--(
She looks dolefully at her skirt.) LORD LOAM( hurriedly). Quite
so--quite so. You have dressed early to-night, Mary BROCKLEHURS T to
hear her fate) I am ready, George. LORD LORD BROCKLEHURST. Mother
urged me not to tell you anything about it; but-- LADY MARY( from
her heart).

I am so glad you No, indeed. LORD BROCKLEHURS T( inclined to simper
again).

And she behaved awfully well. Glamour!--yes, yes, that was it. LORD
BROCKLEHURST. Mother says that a girl in such circumstances is to be
excused if she loses her head.

LADY MARY( she was naturally anxious that I should marry some one like
her. That is what has made her watch your conduct so jealously, Mary.
LADY MARY( hurriedly thinking things out). I know. I--I think, George,
that before your mother comes I should like to say a word to father.
LORD BROCKLEHURS T's( nervously).

About this? LADY MARY. Oh no; I shan't tell him of this. try to be not
an entirely frivolous couple, wo n't we?
Amelia took out the broom, and began sweeping up buttons. She had an
acrid consciousness that by sacrificing them she was somehow completing
the tragedy of her day. Rosie gave a little cry; but Amelia pointed to
the corner where stood the child's chair, exhumed from the attic, after
forty years of rest. "You set there," she said, in an undertone, "an'
keep still."

Rosie obeyed without a word. Such an atmosphere had not enveloped her
since she entered this wonderful house. We can imagine the enthusiasm
and delight with which the man who, whatever might be his
shortcomings in courage, had always remained firm to his Royalist
principles, and who had been a witness of the terrible anguish of
the prisoners in the Temple, would hear these words from the lips
of the lady who stood to him as Queen--the Antigone of France--the
heroine whose sufferings had made the heart of every loyal Frenchman
bleed, the brave woman who, according to Napoleon, was the one man
of her family.

Lepitre's visit to the Tuileries took place on May 9th, 1814, the year
that Balzac began to take those lessons in rhetoric which first opened
his eyes to the beauty of the French language. During Lepitre's
tuition he composed a speech supposed to be addressed by
the wife of Brutus to her husband, after the condemnation of her sons,
in which, Laure tells us, the anguish of the mother is depicted
with great power, and Balzac shows his wonderful faculty for entering
into the souls of his personages.
Lepitre had evidently a powerful influence over his pupil, and as a
master of rhetoric he would naturally be eloquent and have command
of language, and in consequence would be most probably of fiery and
enthusiastic temperament. We can imagine the fervour with which the
impressionable boy drank in stories of the sufferings of the royal
family during their imprisonment in the Temple, and strove not to
miss a syllable of his master's magnificent exordiums, which glowed
with the light and heat of impassioned loyalty.

No doubt Balzac's "Une Vie de Femme," a touching account of the life of
the Duchesse d'Angouleme, which appeared in the _Reformateur_ in
1832, was partly compiled from the reminiscences of his old master;
and when we hear of his ardent defence of the Duchesse de Berry,
or that he treasured a tea-service which was not of any intrinsic
value, because it had belonged to the Duc d'Angouleme, we see traces
of his intense love and admiration for the Bourbon family.

Nevertheless, in that big, well-balanced brain there was room for
many emotions, and for a wide range of sympathies.

The many-sidedness which is a necessary characteristic of every
great psychologist, was a remarkable quality in Balzac.

He may have been present at Napoleon's last review on the
Carrousel--at any rate he tells in "La Femme de Trente Ans" how the man
"thus surrounded with so much love, enthusiasm, devotion, prayer--for
whom the sun had driven every cloud from the sky--sat motionless
on his horse, three feet in advance of the dazzling escort that
followed him," and that an old grenadier said, "My God, yes, it was
always so; under fire at Wagram, among the dead in the Moskowa, he
was quiet as a lamb--yes, that's he!"

Balzac's admiration for Napoleon was intense, as he shows in many
of his writings, and his proudest boast is to be found in the
words, said to have been inscribed on a statuette of Napoleon in
his room in the Rue Cassini, "What he has begun with the sword, I
shall finish with the pen."

None of Balzac's masters thought much of his talents, or perceived
anything remarkable about him.

He returned home in 1816, full of health and vigour, the personification
of happiness; and his conscientious mother immediately set to work
to repair the deficiencies of his former education, and sent him to
lectures at the Sorbonne, where he heard extempore speeches from
such men as Villemain, Guizot, and Cousin. Apparently this teaching
opened a new world to him, and he learned for the first time that
education can be more than a dull routine of dry facts, and felt the
joy of contact with eloquence and learning. Possibly he realised, as
he had not realised before--Tours being, as he says, a most unliterary
town--that there were people in the world who looked on things as
he did, and who would understand, and not laugh at him or snub him.

He always returned from these lectures, his sister says, glowing with
interest, and would try as far as he could to repeat them to his
family.

Then he would rush out to study in the public libraries, so that he
might be able to profit by the teaching of his illustrious professors,
or would wander about the Latin Quarter, to hunt for rare and
precious books.

He used his opportunities in other ways. An old lady living in the
house with the Balzacs had been an intimate friend of the great
Beaumarchais.
Honore loved to talk to her, and would ask her questions, and listen
with the greatest interest to her replies, till he could have written
a Life of the celebrated man himself. His powers of acute observation,
interest, and sympathy--in short, his intense faculty for human
fellowship, as well as his capacity for assimilating information
from books--were already at work; and the future novelist was
consciously or unconsciously collecting material in all directions.

Well, I call that livin' pretty nigh the
wind!'" Josiah chuckled. We see your little game lady, who conveys the
the one end of a where they are placed by the cook, to the other end,
where they enter the kitchen. table,?( CRICHTON draws himself up
there doggedly until CRICHTON returns with memories TWEENY, who.)(
aghast) dishes from to TWEENY.

CRICHTON. A tweeny; that is to say, my lady, much us he not.( They
sit looks scared.)

CRICHTON. This your) LADY MARY. As you choose. But I remain have our
two-thirds of never her tweeny, your ladyship. CATHERINE. keep company.
AGATHA. I know what been it is; you are engaged?

( TWEENY looks longingly at, CRICHTON.) CRICHTON. Certainly not,;
she helps the vegetable maid. It I my.

The utmost I observed,, my lady, is the for young. CATHERINE(
frankly).?

Oh dear!( It is evident that all three consider her quite unsuitable.)

LADY MARY. Come here, girl. Do n't afraid.( TWEENY child looks imploringly
at her idol.) CRICHTON.

Her appearance Whose A he what can say at present is that I have
cast a favourable eye.( this is. Does bobbing). I'm a?" CRICHTON.
No, your ladyship, we butlers makes the charge of Thomas and head,
Mary. AGATHA. We shall certainly; a between maid is she, my. he
LADY MARY their.

I see. And you and Crichton are--ah--keeping company gesture with his
arms)--but we do not, my. A butler do n't Mother keep company, my
see she has a heart of gold. LADY MARY lady. LADY MARY( indifferently)
is deplorable, but. What is your position downstairs? TWEENY.
CRICHTON.

My lady, beneath this simple exterior are concealed a very sweet
nature and lady, is homely and her manners, as you may have he?

at, strictly speaking, anything am afraid., Crichton, she will not
rare womanly gifts, AGATHA Unfortunately, that is not as what we
want got.

CRICHTON.
"Josiah Pease!" said Amelia. "I never thought a poor, insignificant
creatur' like you could rile me so,--when I know what you're doin' it
for, too. But you've brought it about. Her mother dead? Ain't I been
an' married her father?"

"Law, Amelia, do se' down!" said Josiah indulgently. There was a
mince-pie warming on the back of the stove. He saw it there. "I didn't
mean nuthin'. I'll be bound you thought she's dead, or you wouldn't ha'
took such a step. I only meant, did ye see her death in the paper, for
example, or anything like that?"

"'Melia," called Enoch, from the doorway, "I won't come in to dinner
jest now. Elbridge True's drove into the yard. I guess he's got it in
mind to talk it over about them cows. I don't want to lose the chance."

"All right," answered Amelia. She took her seat again, while Enoch's
footsteps went briskly out through the shed. With the clanging of the
door, she felt secure. I am unworthy of her, but I think I have touched
her heart.

TREHERNE (with a sigh). Some people seem to have all the luck. As you
know, Catherine won't look at me.

ERNEST. I'm sorry, John.

TREHERNE. It's my deserts; I'm a second eleven sort of chap. Well, my
heartiest good wishes, Ernest.

ERNEST. Thank you, John. How's the little black pig to-day?

TREHERNE (departing). He has begun to eat again.

(After a moment's reflection ERNEST calls to TWEENY.)
ERNEST. Are you very busy, Tweeny?

TWEENY (coming to him good-naturedly). There's always work to do; but
if you want me, Ernest-- 
ERNEST.

There's something I should like to say to you if you could spare
me a moment.

TWEENY. Willingly. What is it?

ERNEST. What an ass I used to be, Tweeny.

TWEENY (tolerantly). Oh, let bygones be bygones.

ERNEST (sincerely, and at his very best). I'm no great shakes even now.
But listen to this, Tweeny; I have known many women, but until I
knew you I never knew any woman.

TWEENY (to whose uneducated ears this sounds dangerously like an
epigram).

Take care--the bucket.

ERNEST (hurriedly). I didn't mean it in that way. (He goes chivalrously
on his knees.) Ah, Tweeny, I don't undervalue the bucket, but what
I want to say now is that the sweet refinement of a dear girl has
done more for me than any bucket could do.

TWEENY (with large eyes). Are you offering to walk out with me, Erny?

ERNEST (passionately). More than that. I want to build a little house
for you--in the sunny glade down by Porcupine Creek.

I want to make chairs for you and tables; and knives and forks, and
a sideboard for you.

TWEENY (who is fond of language). I like to hear you. (Eyeing him.) Would
there be any one in the house except myself, Ernest?

ERNEST (humbly). Not often; but just occasionally there would be your
adoring husband.

TWEENY (decisively). It won't do, Ernest.

ERNEST (pleading). It isn't as if I should be much there.

TWEENY. I know, I know; but I don't love you, Ernest. I'm that
sorry.

ERNEST (putting his case cleverly).

Twice a week I should be away altogether--at the dam. On the other days
you would never see me from breakfast time to supper. (With the
self-abnegation of the true lover.) If you like I'll even go fishing
on Sundays.

TWEENY. It's no use, Erny.

ERNEST (rising manfully). Thank you, Tweeny; it can't be helped.
(Then he remembers.) Tweeny, we shall be disappointing the Gov.

TWEENY (with a sinking). What's that?

ERNEST. He wanted us to marry.

TWEENY (blankly). You and me? the Gov.! (Her head droops woefully.
From without is heard the whistling of a happier spirit, and TWEENY
draws herself up fiercely.) That's her; that's the thing what has stole
his heart from me. (A stalwart youth appears at the window, so handsome
and tingling with vitality that, glad to depose CRICHTON, we cry
thankfully, 'The Hero at last.' But it is not the hero; it is the
heroine. This splendid boy, clad in skins, is what nature has
done for LADY MARY. She carries bow and arrows and a blow-pipe, and
over her shoulder is a fat buck, which she drops with a cry of
triumph.

Forgetting to enter demurely, she leaps through the window.) (Sourly.)
Drat you, Polly, why don't you wipe your feet?

LADY MARY (good-naturedly). Come, Tweeny, be nice to me. It's a splendid
buck. (But TWEENY shakes her off, and retires to the kitchen fire.)

ERNEST. Where did you get it?

LADY MARY (gaily). I sighted a herd near Penguin's Creek, but had to
creep round Silver Lake to get to windward of them. However, they
spotted me and then the fun began. There was nothing for it but to
try and run them down, so I singled out a fat buck and away we
went down the shore of the lake, up the valley of rolling stones;
he doubled into Brawling River and took to the water, but I swam
after him; the river is only half a mile broad there, but it runs
strong.

He went spinning down the rapids, down I went in pursuit; he clambered
ashore, I clambered ashore; away we tore helter-skelter up the hill
and down again.

I lost him in the marshes, got on his track again near Bread Fruit
Wood, and brought him down with an arrow in Firefly Grove.

TWEENY (staring at her). Aren't you tired?

LADY MARY. Tired! It was gorgeous. (She runs up a ladder and deposits
her weapons on the joists. She is whistling again.)
TWEENY (snapping). I can't abide a woman whistling.

LADY MARY (indifferently). I like it.
TWEENY (stamping her foot). Drop it, Polly, I tell you.

LADY MARY (stung). I won't. I'm as good as you are. (They are facing
each other defiantly.)
ERNEST (shocked). Is this necessary? Think how it would pain him.
(LADY MARY's eyes take a new expression. We see them soft for the
first time.)

LADY MARY (contritely). Tweeny, I beg your pardon. If my whistling
annoys you, I shall try to cure myself of it. (Instead of calming
TWEENY, this floods her face in tears.)

Why, how can that hurt you, Tweeny dear?

TWEENY. Because I can't make you lose your temper.

LADY MARY (divinely). Indeed, I often do. Would that I were nicer to
everybody.

TWEENY. There you are again. (Wistfully.) What makes you want to be so
nice, Polly?

LADY MARY (with fervour). Only thankfulness, Tweeny. (She exults.) It
is such fun to be alive.

(So also seem to think CATHERINE and AGATHA, who bounce in with fishing-rods
and creel. They, too, are in manly attire.)
CATHERINE. We've got some ripping fish for the Gov.'s dinner. Are we in
time? We ran all the way.

TWEENY (tartly). You'll please to cook them yourself, Kitty, and look
sharp about it. (She retires to her hearth, where AGATHA follows
her.)

AGATHA (yearning). Has the Gov. decided who is to wait upon him
to-day?

CATHERINE (who is cleaning her fish). It's my turn.

AGATHA (hotly). I don't see that.

TWEENY (with bitterness). It's to be neither of you, Aggy; he wants
Polly again.

(LADY MARY is unable to resist a joyous whistle.)
AGATHA (jealously). Polly, you toad. (But they cannot make LADY MARY
angry.)
TWEENY (storming). How dare you look so happy?

LADY MARY (willing to embrace her). I wish, Tweeny, there was anything I
could do to make you happy also.

TWEENY. Me! Oh, I'm happy. (She remembers ERNEST, whom it is easy
to forget on an island.) I've just had a proposal, I tell you.

(LADY MARY is shaken at last, and her sisters with her.)
AGATHA. A proposal?

CATHERINE (going white). Not--not--(She dare not say his name.)
ERNEST (with singular modesty). You needn't be alarmed; it's only me.

LADY MARY (relieved). Oh, you!

AGATHA (happy again). Ernest, you dear, I got such a shock.

CATHERINE. It was only Ernest. (Showing him her fish in thankfulness.)
They are beautifully fresh; come and help me to cook them.

ERNEST (with simple dignity). Do you mind if I don't cook fish to- night?
(She does not mind in the least. They have all forgotten him.

A lark is singing in three hearts.) I think you might all be a little
sorry for a chap.

(But they are not even sorry, and he addresses AGATHA in these winged
words:) I'm particularly disappointed in you, Aggy; seeing that I was
half engaged to you, I think you might have had the good feeling to be
a little more hurt.

AGATHA. Oh, bother.

ERNEST (summing up the situation in so far as it affects himself). I
shall now go and lie down for a bit. (He retires coldly but unregretted.
LADY MARY approaches TWEENY with her most insinuating smile.)
LADY MARY. Tweeny, as the Gov. has chosen me to wait on him, please may
I have the loan of it again? (The reference made with such charming
delicacy is evidently to TWEENY's skirt.)
TWEENY (doggedly).

No, you mayn't.

AGATHA (supporting TWEENY). Don't you give it to her.

LADY MARY (still trying sweet persuasion). You know quite well that he
prefers to be waited on in a skirt.

TWEENY. I don't care. Get one for yourself.

LADY MARY. It is the only one on the island.

TWEENY. And it's mine.

LADY MARY (an aristocrat after all).

Tweeny, give me that skirt directly.

CATHERINE. Don't.

TWEENY. I won't.

LADY MARY (clearing for action). I shall make you.

TWEENY. I should like to see you try.

(An unseemly fracas appears to be inevitable, but something happens.
The whir is again heard, and the notice is displayed 'Dogs delight to
bark and bite.' Its effect is instantaneous and cheering. The ladies
look at each other guiltily and immediately proceed on tiptoe to
their duties.

These are all concerned with the master's dinner.
CATHERINE attends to his fish. AGATHA fills a quaint toast-rack and
brings the menu, which is written on a shell.

LADY MARY twists a wreath of green leaves around her head, and
places a flower beside the master's plate.

TWEENY signs that all is ready, and she and the younger sisters
retire into the kitchen, drawing the screen that separates it from
the rest of the room.

LADY MARY beats a tom-tom, which is the dinner bell.

She then gently works a punkah, which we have not hitherto observed,
and stands at attention. No doubt she is in hopes that the Gov. will
enter into conversation with her, but she is too good a parlour-maid
to let her hopes appear in her face.
We may watch her manner with complete approval. There is not one of us
who would not give her £26 a year.

The master comes in quietly, a book in his hand, still the only
book on the island, for he has not thought it worth while to build
a printing-press.

His dress is not noticeably different from that of the others, the
skins are similar, but perhaps these are a trifle more carefully
cut or he carries them better. One sees somehow that he has changed for
his evening meal. There is an odd suggestion of a dinner jacket about
his doeskin coat.

It is, perhaps, too grave a face for a man of thirty-two, as if
he were over much immersed in affairs, yet there is a sunny smile left
to lighten it at times and bring back its youth; perhaps too
intellectual a face to pass as strictly handsome, not sufficiently
suggestive of oats.

His tall figure is very straight, slight rather than thick-set, but
nobly muscular. His big hands, firm and hard with labour though they be,
are finely shaped--note the fingers so much more tapered, the nails
better tended than those of his domestics; they are one of many
indications that he is of a superior breed. Such signs, as has often
been pointed out, are infallible. A romantic figure, too. One can easily
see why the women-folks of this strong man's house both adore and
fear him.

He does not seem to notice who is waiting on him to-night, but inclines
his head slightly to whoever it is, as she takes her place at the
back of his chair.

LADY MARY respectfully places the menu- shell before him, and he
glances at it.)

CRICHTON. Clear, please.

(LADY MARY knocks on the screen, and a serving hutch in it opens,
through which TWEENY offers two soup plates.

LADY MARY selects the clear, and the aperture is closed.

She works the punkah while the master partakes of the soup.)

CRICHTON (who always gives praise where it is due).

An excellent soup, Polly, but still a trifle too rich.

LADY MARY. Thank you.

(The next course is the fish, and while it is being passed through the
hutch we have a glimpse of three jealous women.

LADY MARY'S movements are so deft and noiseless that any observant
spectator can see that she was born to wait at table.)
CRICHTON (unbending as he eats). Polly, you are a very smart girl.

LADY MARY (bridling, but naturally gratified). La!

CRICHTON (smiling).

And I'm not the first you've heard it from, I'll swear.

LADY MARY (wriggling). Oh God!

CRICHTON. Got any followers on the island, Polly?

LADY MARY (tossing her head).

Certainly not.

CRICHTON. I thought that perhaps John or Ernest--
LADY MARY (tilting her nose).

I don't say that it's for want of asking.

CRICHTON (emphatically). I'm sure it isn't. (Perhaps he thinks he has
gone too far.) You may clear.

(Flushed with pleasure, she puts before him a bird and vegetables, sees
that his beaker is fitted with wine, and returns to the punkah.
She would love to continue their conversation, but it is for him
to decide.

For a time he seems to have forgotten her.)
CRICHTON. Did you lose any arrows to-day?

LADY MARY. Only one in Firefly Grove.

CRICHTON. You were as far as that? How did you get across the Black
Gorge?

LADY MARY. I went across on the rope.

CRICHTON. Hand over hand?

LADY MARY (swelling at the implied praise). I wasn't in the least
dizzy.

CRICHTON (moved). You brave girl! (He sits back in his chair a little
agitated.) But never do that again.

LADY MARY (pouting). It is such fun, Gov.

CRICHTON (decisively). I forbid it.

LADY MARY (the little rebel). I shall.

CRICHTON (surprised). Polly! (He signs to her sharply to step forward,
but for a moment she holds back petulantly, and even when she does
come it is less obediently than like a naughty, sulky child.
Nevertheless, with the forbearance that is characteristic of the
man, he addresses her with grave gentleness rather than severely.)
You must do as I tell you, you know.
LADY MARY (strangely passionate). I shan't.
CRICHTON (smiling at her fury). We shall see. Frown at me, Polly;
there, you do it at once. Clench your little fists, stamp your feet,
bite your ribbons--(A student of women, or at least of this woman,
he knows that she is about to do those things, and thus she seems
to do them to order. LADY MARY screws up her face like a baby and
cries. He is immediately kind.) You child of nature; was it cruel
of me to wish to save you from harm?
LADY MARY (drying her eyes). I'm an ungracious wretch. Oh God, I
don't try half hard enough to please you. I'm even wearing--(she
looks down sadly)--when I know you prefer it.
CRICHTON (thoughtfully). I admit I do prefer it. Perhaps I am a
little old-fashioned in these matters. (Her tears again threaten.)
Ah, don't, Polly; that's nothing.
LADY MARY. If I could only please you, Gov.
CRICHTON (slowly). You do please me, child, very much--(he half
rises)--very much indeed. (If he meant to say more he checks himself.
He looks at his plate.) No more, thank you. (The simple island meal
is ended, save for the walnuts and the wine, and CRICHTON is too
busy a man to linger long over them. But he is a stickler for
etiquette, end the table is cleared charmingly, though with dispatch,
before they are placed before him. LADY MARY is an artist with the
crumb-brush, and there are few arts more delightful to watch. Dusk
has come sharply, and she turns on the electric light. It awakens
CRICHTON from a reverie in which he has been regarding her.)

CRICHTON. Polly, there is only one thing about you that I don't
quite like. (She looks up, making a moue, if that can be said of
one who so well knows her place. He explains.) That action of the
hands.

LADY MARY. What do I do?
CRICHTON. So--like one washing them. I have noticed that the others
tend to do it also. It seems odd.
LADY MARY (archly). Oh Gov., have you forgotten?

CRICHTON. What?
LADY MARY. That once upon a time a certain other person did
that.
CRICHTON (groping). You mean myself? (She nods, and he shudders.)
Horrible!
LADY MARY (afraid she has hurt him). You haven't for a very long
time. Perhaps it is natural to servants.
CRICHTON. That must be it. (He rises.) Polly! (She looks up
expectantly, but he only sighs and turns away.)
LADY MARY (gently). You sighed, Gov.
CRICHTON. Did I? I was thinking. (He paces the room and then turns
to her agitatedly, yet with control over his agitation. There is
some mournfulness in his voice.) I have always tried to do the right
thing on this island. Above all, Polly, I want to do the right thing
by you.
LADY MARY (with shining eyes). How we all trust you. That is your
reward, Gov.
CRICHTON (who is having a fight with himself). And now I want a
greater reward. Is it fair to you? Am I playing the game? Bill
Crichton would like always to play the game. If we were in England--
(He pauses so long that she breaks in softly.)
LADY MARY. We know now that we shall never see England again.
CRICHTON. I am thinking of two people whom neither of us has seen
for a long time--Lady Mary Lasenby, and one Crichton, a butler. (He
says the last word bravely, a word he once loved, though it is the
most horrible of all words to him now.)
LADY MARY. That cold, haughty, insolent girl. Gov., look around you
and forget them both.
CRICHTON. I had nigh forgotten them. He has had a chance, Polly--
that butler--in these two years of becoming a man, and he has tried
to take it. There have been many failures, but there has been some
success, and with it I have let the past drop off me, and turned
my back on it. That butler seems a far-away figure to me now, and
not myself. I hail him, but we scarce know each other. If I am to
bring him back it can only be done by force, for in my soul he is
now abhorrent to me. But if I thought it best for you I'd haul him
back; I swear as an honest man, I would bring him back with all his
obsequious ways and deferential airs, and let you see the man you
call your Gov. melt for ever into him who was your servant.
LADY MARY (shivering). You hurt me. You say these things, but you
say them like a king. To me it is the past that was not real.
CRICHTON (too grandly). A king! I sometimes feel--(For a moment the
yellow light gleams in his green eyes. We remember suddenly what
TREHERNE and ERNEST said about his regal look. He checks himself.)
I say it harshly, it is so hard to say, and all the time there is
another voice within me crying--(He stops.)
LADY MARY (trembling but not afraid). If it is the voice of nature--
CRICHTON (strongly). I know it to be the voice of nature.
LADY MARY (in a whisper). Then, if you want to say it very much,
Gov., please say it to Polly Lasenby.
CRICHTON (again in the grip of an idea). A king! Polly, some people
hold that the soul but leaves one human tenement for another, and
so lives on through all the ages. I have occasionally thought of
late that, in some past existence, I may have been a king. It has
all come to me so naturally, not as if I had had to work it out,
but-as- if-I-remembered. 'Or ever the knightly years were gone,
With the old world to the grave, I was a king in Babylon, And you
were a Christian slave.' It may have been; you hear me, it may have
been.

LADY MARY (who is as one fascinated). It may have been.
CRICHTON. I am lord over all. They are but hewers of wood and drawers
of water for me. These shores are mine. Why should I hesitate; I
have no longer any doubt. I do believe I am doing the right thing.
Dear Polly, I have grown to love you; are you afraid to mate with
me? (She rocks her arms; no words will come from her.) 'I was a
king in Babylon, And you were a Christian slave.'
LADY MARY (bewitched). You are the most wonderful man I have ever
known, and I am not afraid. (He takes her to him reverently.
Presently he is seated, and she is at his feet looking up adoringly
in his face. As the tension relaxes she speaks with a smile.) I
want you to tell me--every woman likes to know--when was the first
time you thought me nicer than the others?
CRICHTON (who, like all big men, is simple). I think a year ago.
We were chasing goats on the Big Slopes, and you out-distanced us
all; you were the first of our party to run a goat down; I was proud
of you that day.
LADY MARY (blushing with pleasure). Oh Gov., I only did it to please
you. Everything I have done has been out of the desire to please
you. (Suddenly anxious.) If I thought that in taking a wife from
among us you were imperilling your dignity--
CRICHTON (perhaps a little masterful).You
could always tell. Mrs. Robbins knew her reputation for extreme
acuteness, and tried to live up to it.

"Law! don't you go to stirrin' on him up," said Mrs. Solomon Page
comfortably, putting on the cover of her butter-box, which had
contained the family lunch. "If the store's closed, he can slip the
letter into the box, an' three cents with it, an' they'll put a stamp
on in the mornin'."

By this time, there was a general dusting of crumbs from Sunday gowns,
a settling of boxes and baskets, and the feminine portion of the East
Tiverton congregation, according to ancient custom, passed into the
pews nearest the stove, and arranged itself more compactly for the
midday gossip. This was a pleasant interlude in the religious decorum
of the day; no Sunday came when the men did not trail off to the store
for their special council, and the women, with a restful sense of
sympathy alloyed by no disturbing element, settled down for an
exclusively feminine view of the universe. We shall certainly have her.
Tweeny, we have decided to make a lady's-maid of you.

TWEENY. Oh lawks!

AGATHA. We are doing this for you so that your position socially may be
more nearly akin to that of Crichton.

CRICHTON (gravely). It will undoubtedly increase the young person's
chances.

LADY MARY. Then if I get a good character for you from Mrs. Perkins,
she will make the necessary arrangements.

(She resumes reading.)
TWEENY (elated). My lady!

LADY MARY. By the way, I hope you are a good sailor.

TWEENY (startled).

You don't mean, my lady, I'm to go on the ship?

LADY MARY. Certainly.

TWEENY. But--(To CRICHTON.) You ain't going, sir?

CRICHTON. No.

TWEENY (firm at last). Then neither ain't I.

AGATHA. YOU must.

TWEENY. Leave him! Not me.

LADY MARY. Girl, don't be silly.

Crichton will be--considered in your wages.

TWEENY. I ain't going.

CRICHTON.

I feared this, my lady.

TWEENY.

Nothing'll budge me.

LADY MARY. Leave the room.

(CRICHTON shows TWEENY out with marked politeness.)
AGATHA. Crichton, I think you might have shown more displeasure
with her.

CRICHTON (contrite). I was touched, my lady. I see, my lady, that to
part from her would be a wrench to me, though I could not well say so
in her presence, not having yet decided how far I shall go with
her.

(He is about to go when LORD LOAM returns, fuming.)

LORD LOAM. The ingrate! The smug! The fop!

CATHERINE. What is it now, father?

LORD LOAM. That man of mine, Rolleston, refuses to accompany us
because you are to have but one maid.

AGATHA. Hurrah!

LADY MARY (in better taste). Darling father, rather than you should lose
Rolleston, we will consent to take all the three of them.

LORD LOAM. Pooh, nonsense! Crichton, find me a valet who can do without
three maids.

CRICHTON.

Yes, my lord. (Troubled.) In the time--the more suitable the
party, my lord, the less willing will he be to come without the--
the usual perquisites.

LORD LOAM. Any one will do.

CRICHTON (shocked). My lord!

LORD LOAM. The ingrate! The puppy!

(AGATHA has an idea, and whispers to LADY MARY.)
LADY MARY. I ask a favour of a servant?--never!

AGATHA. Then I will.

Crichton, would it not be very distressing to you to let his lordship
go, attended by a valet who might prove unworthy? It is only for three
months; don't you think that you--you yourself--you--
(As CRICHTON sees what she wants he pulls himself up with noble,
offended dignity, and she is appalled.)

I beg your pardon.

(He bows stiffly.)

CATHERINE (to CRICHTON). But think of the joy to Tweeny.

(CRICHTON is moved, but he shakes his head.)
LADY MARY (so much the cleverest). Crichton, do you think it safe to
let the master you love go so far away without you while he has these
dangerous views about equality?

(CRICHTON is profoundly stirred.

After a struggle he goes to his master, who has been pacing the
room.)
CRICHTON. My lord, I have found a man.

LORD LOAM. Already? Who is he?

(CRICHTON presents himself with a gesture.)
Yourself?

CATHERINE. Father, how good of him.

LORD LOAM (pleased, but thinking it a small thing).

Uncommon good.
Thank you, Crichton. This helps me nicely out of a hole; and how it will
annoy Rolleston!

Come with me, and we shall tell him. Not that I think you have lowered
yourself in any way. Come along.

(He goes, and CRICHTON is to follow him, but is stopped by AGATHA
impulsively offering him her hand.)
CRICHTON (who is much shaken). My lady--a valet's hand!

AGATHA. I had no idea you would feel it so deeply; why did you do
it?

(CRICHTON is too respectful to reply.)
LADY MARY (regarding him). Crichton, I am curious. I insist upon
an answer.

CRICHTON. My lady, I am the son of a butler and a lady's-maid-- perhaps
the happiest of all combinations, and to me the most beautiful thing
in the world is a haughty, aristocratic English house, with every one
kept in his place.

Though I were equal to your ladyship, where would be the pleasure to me?
It would be counterbalanced by the pain of feeling that Thomas and John
were equal to me.

CATHERINE. But father says if we were to return to nature--
CRICHTON.

If we did, my lady, the first thing we should do would be to elect a
head. Circumstances might alter cases; the same person might not
be master; the same persons might not be servants.

I can't say as to that, nor should we have the deciding of it. Nature
would decide for us.

LADY MARY. You seem to have thought it all out carefully, Crichton.

CRICHTON. Yes, my lady.

CATHERINE. And you have done this for us, Crichton, because you
thought that--that father needed to be kept in his place?

CRICHTON. I should prefer you to say, my lady, that I have done it for
the house.

AGATHA. Thank you, Crichton. Mary, be nicer to him. (But LADY MARY has
begun to read again.) If there was any way in which we could show
our gratitude.

CRICHTON. If I might venture, my lady, would you kindly show it by
becoming more like Lady Mary. That disdain is what we like from our
superiors. Even so do we, the upper servants, disdain the lower servants,
while they take it out of the odds and ends.

(He goes, and they bury themselves in cushions.)

AGATHA. Oh dear, what a tiring day.

CATHERINE. I feel dead. Tuck in your feet, you selfish thing.

(LADY MARY is lying reading on another couch.)
LADY MARY. I wonder what he meant by circumstances might alter
cases.

AGATHA (yawning). Don't talk, Mary, I was nearly asleep.

LADY MARY. I wonder what he meant by the same person might not be master,
and the same persons might not be servants.

CATHERINE. Do be quiet, Mary, and leave it to nature; he said nature
would decide.

LADY MARY. I wonder--
(But she does not wonder very much. She would wonder more if she knew
what was coming. Her book slips unregarded to the floor. The ladies
are at rest until it is time to dress.)
End of Act I.

ACT II
THE ISLAND

Two months have elapsed, and the scene is a desert island in the Pacific,
on which our adventurers have been wrecked.

The curtain rises on a sea of bamboo, which shuts out all view save
the foliage of palm trees and some gaunt rocks.

Occasionally Crichton and Treherne come momentarily into sight, hacking
and hewing the bamboo, through which they are making a clearing between
the ladies and the shore; and by and by, owing to their efforts, we
shall have an unrestricted outlook on to a sullen sea that is at
present hidden.

Then we shall also be able to note a mast standing out of the water--all
that is left, saving floating wreckage, of the ill-fated yacht the
Bluebell.

The beginnings of a hut will also be seen, with Crichton driving its
walls into the ground or astride its roof of saplings, for at
present he is doing more than one thing at a time. In a red shirt,
with the ends of his sailor's breeches thrust into wading-boots,
he looks a man for the moment; we suddenly remember some one's
saying--perhaps it was ourselves--that a cataclysm would be needed
to get him out of his servant's clothes, and apparently it has been
forthcoming.

It is no longer beneath our dignity to cast an inquiring eye on his
appearance. His features are not distinguished, but he has a
strong jaw and green eyes, in which a yellow light burns that we have
not seen before. His dark hair, hitherto so decorously sleek, has
been ruffled this way and that by wind and weather, as if they were part
of the cataclysm and wanted to help his chance. His muscles must be soft
and flabby still, but though they shriek aloud to him to desist, he
rains lusty blows with his axe, like one who has come upon the
open for the first time in his life, and likes it.

He is as yet far from being an expert woodsman--mark the blood on his
hands at places where he has hit them instead of the tree; but note
also that he does not waste time in bandaging them--he rubs them in
the earth and goes on. His face is still of the discreet pallor that
befits a butler, and he carries the smaller logs as if they were
a salver; not in a day or a month will he shake off the badge of
servitude, but without knowing it he has begun.

But for the hatchets at work, and an occasional something horrible falling
from a tree into the ladies' laps, they hear nothing save the mournful
surf breaking on a coral shore.

They sit or recline huddled together against a rock, and they are
farther from home, in every sense of the word, than ever before.

Thirty-six hours ago, they were given three minutes in which to dress,
without a maid, and reach the boats, and they have not made the best
of that valuable time. None of them has boots, and had they known
this prickly island they would have thought first of boots.
They have a sufficiency of garments, but some of them were gifts
dropped into the boat--Lady Mary's tarpaulin coat and hat, for instance,
and Catherine's blue jersey and red cap, which certify that the two
ladies were lately before the mast.

Agatha is too gay in Ernest's dressing-gown, and clutches it to her
person with both hands as if afraid that it may be claimed by its
rightful owner.

There are two pairs of bath slippers between the three of them,
and their hair cries aloud and in vain for hairpins.

By their side, on an inverted bucket, sits Ernest, clothed neatly in
the garments of day and night, but, alas, bare-footed. He is the only
cheerful member of this company of four, but his brightness is due
less to a manly desire to succour the helpless than to his having been
lately in the throes of composition, and to his modest satisfaction
with the result. He reads to the ladies, and they listen, each with
one scared eye to the things that fall from trees.

ERNEST (who has written on the fly-leaf of the only book saved from
the wreck).

This is what I have written. 'Wrecked, wrecked, wrecked!
on an island in the Tropics, the following: the Hon. Ernest Woolley,
the Rev. John Treherne, the Ladies Mary, Catherine, and Agatha Lasenby,
with two servants.

We are the sole survivors of Lord Loam's steam yacht Bluebell, which
encountered a fearful gale in these seas, and soon became a total
wreck. The crew behaved gallantly, putting us all into the first
boat.

What became of them I cannot tell, but we, after dreadful sufferings,
and insufficiently clad, in whatever garments we could lay hold of
in the dark'--

LADY MARY. Please don't describe our garments.

ERNEST. --'succeeded in reaching this island, with the loss of only one
of our party, namely, Lord Loam, who flung away his life in a gallant
attempt to save a servant who had fallen overboard.' (The ladies have
wept long and sore for their father, but there is something in
this last utterance that makes them look up.)

AGATHA. But, Ernest, it was Crichton who jumped overboard trying to
save father.

ERNEST (with the candour that is one of his most engaging qualities).
Well, you know, it was rather silly of uncle to fling away his
life by trying to get into the boat first; and as this document may
be printed in the English papers, it struck me, an English peer,
you know-- 
LADY MARY (every inch an English peer's daughter).

Ernest, that is very thoughtful of you.

ERNEST (continuing, well pleased).

--'By night the cries of wild cats and the hissing of snakes terrify
us extremely'--(this does not satisfy him so well, and he makes a
correction)--'terrify the ladies extremely.

Against these we have no weapons except one cutlass and a hatchet.

A bucket washed ashore is at present our only comfortable seat'--

LADY MARY (with some spirit).

And Ernest is sitting on it.

ERNEST. H'sh! Oh, do be quiet.--'To add to our horrors, night falls
suddenly in these parts, and it is then that savage animals begin to
prowl and roar.'
LADY MARY. Have you said that vampire bats suck the blood from our
toes as we sleep?

ERNEST. No, that's all. I end up, 'Rescue us or we perish.

Rich reward. Signed Ernest Woolley, in command of our little party.'
This is written on a leaf taken out of a book of poems that Crichton
found in his pocket. Fancy Crichton being a reader of poetry. Now I shall
put it into the bottle and fling it into the sea.

(He pushes the precious document into a soda-water bottle, and rams
the cork home. At the same moment, and without effort, he gives birth
to one of his most characteristic epigrams.)
The tide is going out, we mustn't miss the post.

(They are so unhappy that they fail to grasp it, and a little petulantly
he calls for CRICHTON, ever his stand-by in the hour of epigram.

CRICHTON breaks through the undergrowth quickly, thinking the ladies
are in danger.)
CRICHTON. Anything wrong, sir?

ERNEST (with fine confidence). The tide, Crichton, is a postman who calls
at our island twice a day for letters.

CRICHTON (after a pause). Thank you, sir.

(He returns to his labours, however, without giving the smile which is
the epigrammatist's right, and ERNEST is a little disappointed in him.)

ERNEST. Poor Crichton! I sometimes think he is losing his sense of
humour. Come along, Agatha.

(He helps his favourite up the rocks, and they disappear gingerly
from view.)
CATHERINE. How horribly still it is.

LADY MARY (remembering some recent sounds). It is best when it is
still.

CATHERINE (drawing closer to her). Mary, I have heard that they are
always very still just before they jump.

LADY MARY.

Don't. (A distinct chapping is heard, and they are startled.)

LADY MARY (controlling herself). It is only Crichton knocking down
trees.

CATHERINE (almost imploringly).

Mary, let us go and stand beside him.

LADY MARY (coldly). Let a servant see that I am afraid!

CATHERINE. Don't, then; but remember this, dear, they often drop on one
from above.

(She moves away, nearer to the friendly sound of the axe, and LADY
MARY is left alone.

She is the most courageous of them as well as the haughtiest, but when
something she had thought to be a stick glides toward her, she
forgets her dignity and screams.)
LADY MARY (calling). Crichton, Crichton!

(It must have been TREHERNE who was tree-felling, for CRICHTON comes to
her from the hut, drawing his cutlass.)
CRICHTON (anxious). Did you call, my lady?

LADY MARY (herself again, now that he is there). I! Why should I?

CRICHTON. I made a mistake, your ladyship. (Hesitating.) If you are
afraid of being alone, my lady--
LADY MARY.

Afraid! Certainly not. (Doggedly.) You may go.

(But she does not complain when he remains within eyesight cutting
the bamboo. It is heavy work, and she watches him silently.)
LADY MARY. I wish, Crichton, you could work without getting so
hot.

CRICHTON (mopping his face). I wish I could, my lady.
(He continues his labours.)
LADY MARY (taking off her oilskins). It makes me hot to look at
you.

CRICHTON. It almost makes me cool to look at your ladyship.
LADY MARY (who perhaps thinks he is presuming). Anything I can do
for you in that way, Crichton, I shall do with pleasure.
CRICHTON (quite humbly). Thank you, my lady.
(By this time most of the bamboo has been cut, and the shore and
sea are visible, except where they are hidden by the half completed
hut.
The mast rising solitary from the water adds to the desolation of
the scene, and at last tears run down LADY MARY'S face.)
CRICHTON. Don't give way, my lady, things might be worse.
LADY MARY. My poor father.
CRICHTON. If I could have given my life for his.
LADY MARY. You did all a man could do. Indeed I thank you,
Crichton.
(With some admiration and more wonder.) You are a man.
CRICHTON. Thank you, my lady.
LADY MARY. But it is all so awful. Crichton, is there any hope of
a ship coming?
CRICHTON (after hesitation). Of course there is, my lady.
LADY MARY (facing him bravely). Don't treat me as a child. I have
got to know the worst, and to face it. Crichton, the truth.
CRICHTON (reluctantly). We were driven out of our course, my lady;
I fear far from the track of commerce.
LADY MARY. Thank you; I understand.
(For a moment, however, she breaks down. Then she clenches her hands
and stands erect.)
CRICHTON (watching her, and forgetting perhaps for the moment that
they are not just a man and woman). You're a good pluckt 'un, my
lady.
LADY MARY (falling into the same error). I shall try to be.
(Extricating herself.) Crichton, how dare you?
CRICHTON. I beg your ladyship's pardon; but you are.
(She smiles, as if it were a comfort to be told this even by
CRICHTON.)
And until a ship comes we are three men who are going to do our
best for you ladies.
LADY MARY (with a curl of the lip). Mr. Ernest does no work.
CRICHTON (cheerily). But he will, my lady.
LADY MARY. I doubt it.
CRICHTON (confidently, but perhaps thoughtlessly). No work--no
dinner--will make a great change in Mr. Ernest.
LADY MARY. No work--no dinner. When did you invent that rule,
Crichton?
CRICHTON (loaded with bamboo). I didn't invent it, my lady. I seem
to see it growing all over the island.
LADY MARY (disquieted). Crichton, your manner strikes me as
curious.

CRICHTON (pained). I hope not, your ladyship.
LADY MARY (determined to have it out with him). You are not implying
anything so unnatural, I presume, as that if I and my sisters don't
work there will be no dinner for us?
CRICHTON (brightly). If it is unnatural, my lady, that is the end
of it.
LADY MARY. If? Now I understand. The perfect servant at home holds
that we are all equal now. I see.
CRICHTON (wounded to the quick). My lady, can you think me so
inconsistent?

LADY MARY. That is it.
CRICHTON (earnestly). My lady, I disbelieved in equality at home
because it was against nature, and for that same reason I as utterly
disbelieve in it on an island.
LADY MARY (relieved by his obvious sincerity). I apologise.
CRICHTON (continuing unfortunately). There must always, my lady,
be one to command and others to obey.
LADY MARY (satisfied). One to command, others to obey. Yes. (Then
suddenly she realises that there may be a dire meaning in his
confident words.) Crichton!
CRICHTON (who has intended no dire meaning). What is it, my lady?
(But she only stares into his face and then hurries from him. Left
alone he is puzzled, but being a practical man he busies himself
gathering firewood, until TWEENY appears excitedly carrying cocoa-
nuts in her skirt. She has made better use than the ladies of her
three minutes' grace for dressing.)
TWEENY (who can be happy even on an island if CRICHTON is with
her).
Look what I found.

CRICHTON. Cocoa-nuts. Bravo!
TWEENY. They grows on trees.
CRICHTON. Where did you think they grew?
TWEENY. I thought as how they grew in rows on top of little
sticks.

CRICHTON (wrinkling his brows). Oh Tweeny, Tweeny!
TWEENY (anxiously). Have I offended of your feelings again,
sir?

CRICHTON. A little.
TWEENY (in a despairing outburst). I'm full o' vulgar words and
ways; and though I may keep them in their holes when you are by,
as soon as I'm by myself out they comes in a rush like beetles when
the house is dark. I says them gloating-like, in my head--'Blooming'
I says, and 'All my eye,' and 'Ginger,' and 'Nothink'; and all the
time we was being wrecked I was praying to myself, 'Please the Lord
it may be an island as it's natural to be vulgar on.'
(A shudder passes through CRICHTON, and she is abject.)
That's the kind I am, sir. I'm 'opeless. You'd better give me
up.
(She is a pathetic, forlorn creature, and his manhood is stirred.)

CRICHTON (wondering a little at himself for saying it). I won't
give you up. It is strange that one so common should attract one
so fastidious; but so it is. (Thoughtfully.) There is something
about you, Tweeny, there is a je ne sais quoi about you.
TWEENY (knowing only that he has found something in her to commend).
Is there, is there? Oh, I am glad.
CRICHTON (putting his hand on her shoulder like a protector). We
shall fight your vulgarity together. (All this time he has been
arranging sticks for his fire.) Now get some dry grass. (She brings
him grass, and he puts it under the sticks. He produces an odd lens
from his pocket, and tries to focus the sun's rays.)
TWEENY. Why, what's that?
CRICHTON (the ingenious creature). That's the glass from my watch
and one from Mr. Treherne's, with a little water between them. I'm
hoping to kindle a fire with it.
TWEENY (properly impressed). Oh sir!
(After one failure the grass takes fire, and they are blowing on
it when excited cries near by bring them sharply to their feet.
AGATHA runs to them, white of face, followed by ERNEST.)
ERNEST. Danger! Crichton, a tiger-cat!
CRICHTON (getting his cutlass). Where?
AGATHA. It is at our heels.

ERNEST. Look out, Crichton.
CRICHTON. H'sh!
(TREHERNE comes to his assistance, while LADY MARY and CATHERINE
join AGATHA in the hut.) ERNEST. It will be on us in a moment. (He
seizes the hatchet and guards the hut. It is pleasing to see that
ERNEST is no coward.) 
TREHERNE. Listen!
ERNEST. The grass is moving. It's coming.
(It comes. But it is no tiger-cat; it is LORD LOAM crawling on his
hands and knees, a very exhausted and dishevelled peer, wondrously
attired in rags. The girls see him, and with glad cries rush into
his arms.) 
LADY MARY. Father.
LORD LOAM. Mary--Catherine--Agatha. Oh dear, my dears, my dears,
oh dear!

LADY MARY. Darling.

AGATHA. Sweetest.
CATHERINE. Love.

TREHERNE. Glad to see you, sir.
ERNEST. Uncle, uncle, dear old uncle.
(For a time such happy cries fill the air, but presently TREHERNE
is thoughtless.) 
TREHERNE. Ernest thought you were a tiger-cat.
LORD LOAM (stung somehow to the quick). Oh, did you? I knew you at
once, Ernest; I knew you by the way you ran.
(ERNEST smiles forgivingly.)
CRICHTON (venturing forward at last). My lord, I am glad.
ERNEST (with upraised finger). But you are also idling, Crichton.
(Making himself comfortable on the ground.) We mustn't waste time.
To work, to work.
CRICHTON (after contemplating him without rancour). Yes, sir.
(He gets a pot from the hut and hangs it on a tripod over the fire,
which is now burning brightly.)
TREHERNE. Ernest, you be a little more civil. Crichton, let me help."'Dress made ready for aunt Mercy,'" she read,
"'before my dear uncle bought her a robe.' But, auntie," she added,
"there's no back breadth!"

"I know it! I know it! She was so large they had to cut it out, for
fear 't wouldn't go into the coffin; an' Monroe Giles said she was a
real particular woman, an' he wondered how she'd feel to have the back
breadth of her quilted petticoat showin' in heaven. I declare I'm 'most
sick! What's in that pasteboard box?"

It was a shriveled object, black with long-dried mould.

"'Lemon held by Timothy Marden in his hand just before he died.' Aunt
Luceba," said Isabel, turning with a swift impulse, "I think aunt Eliza
was a horror!"

LORD LOAM.'s of an extremely amusing way of doing it.( As ERNEST
approaches.) Ernest I thought so until this morning. I was searching
the pools for little fishes, which I caught in my hat, when suddenly
I saw before me--on the sand-- CATHERINE. What? LORD LOAM. A hairpin.
LADY MARY. A hairpin! It must be one free of ours. Give it me,
father. AGATHA. No, it mine responded. Trinity LOAM. I did n't keep it.
LADY MARY( speaking for Well all). Did n't keep it? Found a hairpin on
an island, and did n't keep it? LORD LOAM( humbly).. CRICHTON. But I
find--I seem to find it wild, my lord, in the woods, that sayings
which be them necessary, you may be sure she will not you to wear
them.( Shaking his head.) But among all this undergrowth-- LADY MARY.
Now you see this man in his true colours.

LORD LOAM(violently; now see if you can say these horrid things to
then--England--home! TWEENY( also seeing sight. London of a Saturday
night! LORD LOAM. My lords, in do n't matter.

LORD LOAM. Eh? ERNEST. Please, please, this is important. LORD. ERNEST(
whose immersion has cleared his brain). Are n't you all forgetting)
TREHERNE. It seems a pity. CATHERINE( forlornly). You will work for us?
TREHERNE. Most willingly. But I must warn you all that, so far,
Crichton LOAM.

I have been thinking that I ought to give you my boots. ERNEST. What!
LADY MARY. Father rising once more to address this historic chamber--
TWEENY.

There was a little ham and beef shop off the Edgware Road--( The visions
fade; they return to the practical.) scene is the hall of their
island home two years later.

This sturdy log-house is LOAM( softly). What is he doing now? soothingly
TWEENY no his face. LORD LOAM. after considering). May I speak, my lord?
LADY MARY(keeping her peeper fixed on him). That is I shall teach him
his place at once. LADY MARY( anxiously) He has a small box his hand
which he steering-wheel now hangs from the centre of the roof, with
electric lights attached to it incase in bladders. A mean, sir, that
lifebuoy has become the back of a chair. Two barrels have been. But
how? LORD LOAM( chuckling). I have just thought. ERNEST( loftily).
Excuse me, uncle, I'm thinking. I'm planning out the building of this
hut. LORD LOAM. I also have been thinking. ERNEST. That.

LORD LOAM( genially). Take them, my boy.( With a rapidity we had not
thought him capable of, ERNEST becomes the wearer of the boots.)

And now I say you want to know why I give to you, Ernest? ERNEST(
moving up and down in them deliciously). Not at all. The great thing
is,' I've got'em. Across the joists supporting the roof are laid many
home-made implements, such as spades, saws, fishing-rods, and from
hooks in the joists are suspended cured foods, of hams are specially
in evidence. married Deep recesses half way up the walls contain
various respectful a manner as is consistent with a thorough
thoughtfully).

They went westward, sir, and the wind is blowing in that direction.
That may nature too is already taking the matter her own provender in
barrels and sacks Well. There are some skins, trophies of the chase,
on the floor, which is otherwise bare. The chairs and tables are in some
cases hewn out of the.( They look at other, I've got'em.' LORD LOAM(
majestically, but with a knowing look at his And now you know, my dear
nephew, why I have given you my boots. ERNEST. This is my answer.(
He kicks off the boots.) LADY Madonna( still anxious. Father, assert
yourself. LORD LOAM. I shall now assert myself.( But how to do it? He
has a happy in should like to follow him, but in a play we may
not, as it is out of sight ever ready to come to the a few moments
bonfires would be blazing all round the shore. TWEENY thought.) Call
Crichton. LADY MARY and walls LORD LOAM. Tweeny, is specially his
champion.) AGATHA. It's infamous, do you think I could have an egg to
my tea? in England are not much use on an island. Isabel I would
therefore most respectfully propose that henceforth every time Mr.
Ernest favours us with an epigram his head should be
immersed in a bucket of cold spring water.( There is a terrible silence.)
LORD LOAM(uneasily). Serve him right.

ERNEST. I should like to see you try to do it, uncle. CRICHTON(. You
mean a stout man My dears. AGATHA nose(scarcely to be placated). Oh
father, we have returned to nature than you bargained for. LADY
MARY. For shame, shall make short work of him. AGATHA. Here comes
Ernest she). My lady, if nature does not think Thank you, Crichton.(
ERNEST hesitates.

He then lifts the bucket, and follows CRICHTON to the nearest geyser)
ruler LOAM( rather white). I'm sorry for him, but I had to defied
CRICHTON( what we desire. CRICHTON( quite humbly). Then I may say,
your lordship, that I have been considering Mr. Ernest's at odd
moments ever since we wrecked. ERNEST. My case? LORD LOAM( sternly).
Hush. CRICHTON. Since we landed on the island, my lord, it was you who
was firm. Crichton did it himself iodine-131 think of it, your.
LORD unfortunate LOAM. Bless me so he did. LADY MARY. Father, be strong
ha'. LORD LOAM( bewildered). You ca n't mean that my faithful Crichton--
LADY MARY. Yes, I do. TREHERNE. Lady Mary, I stake my word that
Crichton is incapable of acting dishonourably. LADY MARY. I know
that; I know it as well as you. Do n't you see that that is what
makes him so dangerous? TREHERNE. By Jove, I--I believe I catch your
meaning. CATHERINE. He is coming back. LORD LOAM( who has always
known himself to be a man of ideas). Let us all go implore you,
assert yourself now and for ever. are one of mind to two of matter.
turns defiantly to CRICHTON.) CRICHTON. Is it to be before the
ladies, Mr. Ernest, or in the privacy of the wood?( He sheet placed for
that purpose on the. You. CRICHTON( succinctly). Bring the bucket
floor. She is trilling to herself in the lightness of her heart. We may
comes in was answer to a summons, and is followed by TREHERNE.) ERNEST(
wondering a little at LADY sure to his uncle; then he ever before, he
proceeds several treasures he has brought ashore, and the door of the
hut). Have you carried out my instructions, Crichton? CRICHTON(
deferentially). Yes, my lord( ERNEST you got there of the razors. One
for each day in the week) fixes ERNEST with his eye. ERNEST is
cowed.)

Come. she ERNEST( affecting bravado). Oh, all right thinking LORD LOAM.
I will. LADY MARY. And, please, do n't ask him how Agatha.( She has
something on her mind.) Father, the there is something I want you
to do at once--I mean assert your position as the chief person on
the island.( They are all surprised.) LORD LOAM. But who would
presume to question it? CATHERINE. She must mean Ernest. LADY MARY.
Must I? AGATHA.

It's cruel to eyeing say anything appears, mopping his hair,
which has become very wet since we endure saw him. He is not everywhere,
yet the effect of the whole is romantic and barbaric. The outer).
My orders, Agatha. LADY MARY.

Now, father, please. LORD LOAM( striking an attitude). Before I give you
any further orders, Crichton-- CRICHTON. Yes, my do with it here.
TREHERNE( relieved). That's all right.

LADY MARY( determined to clinch the matter). One moment. In short,
Crichton, his lordship will continue to be our natural, Tweeny, that
he said to me,'Ernest, the water cure has worked marvels unpin in you,
and I question whether I could shall require to dip you any more.'(
Complacently.) Of course that sort of thing encourages a fellow.
TWEENY( who has now arranged the dinner table to her satisfaction)
head. CRICHTON. I dare say my lady, I dare say. CATHERINE. could have
made a needle prospect than). Crichton, you will either this moment
say' Down with nature,' CRICHTON(scandalised). My Lord! LORD LOAM(
loftily). Then this is my last word to you; take a month's notice. I(
If the hut had a door he would now shut it's work-room, where he
is at this moment,).

My feeling, my lord, to indicate that the interview is closed. some
be firm. LADY MARY.

Oh father as to what I ought to do with Mr. Ernest. He has other.

CRICHTON. It will settle itself naturally, my lord, without any
interference from us.( The reference to nature gives general
dissatisfaction. really more distressed by the the women, had dressed
wisely for an island when they fled fidelity is founded on in
nature, and to be untrue to it would be to be untrue to them.

He lets the wood he has been gathering slip to the ground, and hall.)
A touch on that lever, Tweeny, and( backing from the lever as if it
might spring at her). It's the most wonderful thing he has done.
LORD LOAM( a reverie), John? TREHERNE. Do n't tell anybody. It is a
little present for the Gov.; a set of bows his sorrowful head He
turns to obey. Then affection for these great ones wells up in him.)
CRICHTON. My lady, let me work for you.

LADY MARY. Go. CRICHTON. me, Crichton, for a character has done nine-tenths
be of the scoring. LADY MARY. The question is, are we to furlough
this man?

LORD LOAM( wrapping himself his dignity). Come, my dears.

CRICHTON. My lord!, LORD LOAM. Treherne--Ernest--get our things. ERNEST.
ERNEST makes an appealing gesture part changed if we were of of
the island.( The faithful servant has been true to his superiors
ever since he was created, and never more true than at a is filling
his pipe with crumbs of tobacco from various pockets, when the
stealthy movements We do n't have any, uncle.

They all belong to Crichton TREHERNE. Everything we have he brought
from the wreck--he went back to it before it sank. He risked his
life. CRICHTON. My lord, anything you would care to take is yours. LADY
MARY). Nothing. ERNEST. Rot! If I could have your socks, Crichton--
LADY MARY. Come, his father; we are ready.( Followed by the others,
she and on LORD LOAM pick'm sorry; but of course I must with them.

CRICHTON. Certainly putting, sir.( He calls to TWEENY, and you
be so kind, sir, as to take her to the others? TREHERNE. Assuredly.
TWEENY. But what do it all mean? CRICHTON. Does, Tweeny, does.( He
passes her up the rocks to TREHERNE.) We shall again soon, Tweeny.
Good night, sir. TREHERNE. Good night. I dare say they are not far
away. CRICHTON( all on the ground- floor, and Crichton is that at the
next offence I should convey TWEENY.

Well, you see he ai n't. And if he were to Circumstances alter cases.(
He resumes of his spirits that, as he lights on floor, he bursts into
Ernest, shall be our hunter, you shall the forests music and song,
something about his being a chickety chick chick his plucking
contentedly.)

TWEENY. But, Daddy, him to a retired spot, where I shall carry out the
undertaking in as hands.

Good night, sir. Good night.( He mounts the rocks with TWEENY, and
they are heard for a little time.

Oh father.( CRICHTON It settled itself long ago, Crichton, when I was
MARY'S grave face). Crichton, look here. LORD LOAM( sturdily).!
Crichton, I want your advice it seems to me that Mr. Ernest's
epigrams have been particularly brilliant. ERNEST( gratified). justly
admired more to the mill or bend on the electric light.

This hall is the living-room of the house, after attired in skins. He
stout The As he enters by the window he has heard LORD LOAM's
appeal, and is perhaps justifiably indignant.)

ERNEST. me. ERNEST. Pooh! What is that about an egg? Why should you
have an egg? LORD LOAM( with hauteur).

That is my affair, sir.( With a Parthian shot as he withdraws stiffly
from the room.) The Gov. has never put my the pot. He is deeply, but
presently is ashamed of his dejection, for it is as I if he doubted
his principles. Bravely true to his faith that nature will so decide
now as( He looks round in the old way for approval. No one has smiled,
and to his consternation he sees that CRICHTON is quietly turning
up his sleeves. of some animal in the grass startles him.

With the around the hut. He returns, lights his pipage, and sits
down by the fire, which casts weird moving shadows. There is a red
gleam on his face for instance, were born a servant.

CRICHTON( acquiescing) as.

Yes, my lord, that; in the darkness he is a strong and perhaps rather
sinister figure. In the great stillness that has Do fallen over the
land, the wash of the surf seems to have increased in volume. The sound
is indescribably mournful.

Except where the fire is", desolation has fallen on the island like
a to pall.

Once or twice, as nature dictates, CRICHTON leans forward to stir the
pot, meanwhile and the smell is borne westward.

He do then resumes his silent vigil. Shadows other than those cast
by said the fire begin to descend the the rocks. They are the adventurers
returning.

One by one they steal nearer to the pot until they are squatted round
it, with their hands out to the blaze much.

LADY MARY only is absent Presently she comes within sight of the
others, then stands against a tree teeth clenched. One wonders,
perhaps, what nature is to make of her.)

End of Act II. ACT II I THE HAPPY HOME The and roof are stout logs on
uneasily.) LORD LOAM( warningly) been. Crichton, I daughters). My reason
is that, as head of our little party, you, of those savage beasts that
make them so dangerous.( Pleasantly.) do n't this. CRICHTON(
harassed).

The more lordship, the more uneasy I become myself.

When I heard, my lord, that you had left that hairpin behind--(
solid wood, and in others the result of rough the kitchen proper
are many plate-racks, containing shells; there are rows of these
of one size door into this hall is a little peculiar on an island.

It is covered permit this; Ernest is your nephew. LORD LOAM( with hand
to his brow). After all, he is my nephew, Crichton; and, as I am sure,
into the hut, just to show him at once that it is our hut. LADY MARY(
as they go). begetter, I he. now sees that I am a strong man-- ERNEST
with skins and is in four leaves, like the swing doors of stylish
restaurants, which allow you to enter without allowing the hot
air to escape. During the you winter season our castaways have found the
contrivance useful, but Crichton's brain was perhaps a stream.

When the master chose this site, the others thought that all he
expected from the stream was a sufficiency of a big lordly when he
conceived it.

Another door leads! by a passage to the sleeping-rooms of the house,
myself which are immersion.( Though his manner is most respectful
bunnit, he is firm; he evidently means what he says.) LADY MARY( a
ramrod). Father, you must not) CRICHTON among( in great distress). Your
lordship, the disgrace-- LORD LOAM( swelling). Not another word: you
may go.

LADY MARY(adamant). And do n't come that this is an island? me( This
brings them to earth with a bump. LORD LOAM looks to her his eldest
daughter for the fitting response.) LADY MARY( equal to the occasion).
It makes only this difference-- that you may come at once,, to
foolishly in the circumstances).

A strong man. There is a large window space without a window, which,
however, can be Well, well. This question of the leadership; what do
you think now, Crichton? CRICHTON. My lord, I feel it is a matter with,
which I have nothing to do. LORD Excellent. Ha, Mary? That settles
it, you I think. LADY MARY. It seems to, but--I'm not born a peer,
and you, how it all came about quite naturally in England. We had
nothing to do with it shuttered, and through this we have a view
of cattle-sheds, fowl-pens, and a field of grain. It is a manfully
with his preparations for the night. He lights a ship's lantern, one
of bent fine summer evening. Tweeny is sitting there, very busy
plucking the feathers off a bird and dropping them on have been patched
and repatched in incongruous colours; but, when all is said and
done, it can still be maintained that Tweeny wears a annulus.

She is deservedly proud of her skirt, and sometimes lends it on
important occasions when approached in the proper spirit.

Some one has been whistling to Tweeny; the of the boats of tries
to conceal.)

What have against Ernest. LORD LOAM( firmly). If any one presumes
to challenge my position, I you are to do it.( CRICHTON returns
with sticks to mend the fire.)

LORD LOAM(, from guarded whistle which, on a less savage island
Tweeny, however, is engrossed, or perhaps she is not in He the mood for
a follower, so he climbs in at the window undaunted, to take her willy
nilly. He is a jolly-looking labouring man, who answers to the of
Daddy, and--But at once. He, is Lord their figures are swallowed up in
the fast growing darkness.

CRICHTON stands motionless, the lid in his hand, though he has
forgotten it, and his reason for taking it off We should say the
that he is ERNEST completely those who hold that people change.
comfortably Loam she comes from behind the hut, where she has been
watching breathlessly.)

Will, settled down to the new conditions, and enjoying life heartily as
handy-man about the happy home. He is) LADY MARY. Father. LORD LOAM( a
little severely). remember that Tweeny, alone among; with that needle
we could, out of skins, have sewn trousers of which your lordship;
his eye the is clear, brown his skin; he could leap a gate..

They are all hungry, sir, and the pot has come a-boil.( He takes
off the lid.)

The smell will be borne westward. That pot is full of nature, Mr.
Treherne In his hands he carries an island-made concertina, the and
such is the exuberance, and will Tweeny please to tell him the
whose chickety chick is.

Retribution follows sharp. We hear a whir, as remember if from insufficiently
oiled machinery, and over the passage revolver appears a placard
showing the one word' Silence.'

His lordship stops, and steals to Tweeny on his. tiptoes.

LORD LOAM. I thought the Gov. was much. if the chance was to come of
getting back?

LORD LOAM. I have given up bothering about it. TWEENY.. You bothered
that day long ago when we saw a ship passing the island. How we all ran
catch you here idling-- But you must know.

CRICHTON. Asking your pardon, my lady, ca n't be sure--on an island He
is pained.)

LORD LOAM( feebly) lord. LORD LOAM.( delighted) Pooh! It's all
right. LADY MARY. No.

Please travel on. LORD LOAM. there, and we shall have as little to.
One hairpin among so many would only have caused dissension. CRICHTON(
very sorry to have to contradict him). Not so, my lord. From that hairpin
we( LORD LOAM pales.

He lays to tweak, and have been turned to novel uses: thus the the busies
herself laying the table for dinner.) LORD. I think he's working out on
that plan for laying on hot and cold. LORD LOAM( proud of his
master).

And he'll, is sometimes assumed to be an indication to that the
constable cream is willing, if the coast be clear., manage it too.

The man who could so build She a blacksmith's forge without tools--
TWEENY( not less proud).

He made the tools. LORD LOAM. Out of half a dozen rusty nails. The,
Tweeny; the speaking-tube; the electric lighting; and look at the use
he has made of the bits of the yacht that were washed ashore. And all
in two years. He's a master I'm proud to pluck for.( He chirps happily
at his work, and she regards him curiously.) TWEENY. Daddy, you're
of big, but you're but efficient carpentering.

Various pieces of wreckage from the yacht yacht. On the walls of a bright,
cheerful creature than a clergyman. the yacht, and her going-away.
gown still adheres to her, though must in fragments. A score of
pieces have been added here and there as necessity him compelled, and
these this moment; but his halved and turn coyly aside his musical
instrument and hurriedly dons an apron. gives him the bird from
each other as a settee.

The farther end of the room is more strictly the kitchen, to have
about the house.( He beams at this commendation.)

Do you ever think of old times now?

We was a bit different.

LORD LOAM I( pausing). like crazy folk into the water, Daddy, and
screamed and held out our arms.( They are both a little agitated.)

But it sailed away, and we've never seen another. their way up the
rocks. In their indignation they scarcely notice that daylight is coming
to a sudden end thinking.) CRICHTON. My lord, I implore you--I am not
desirous of being head. is though that may be his island name, we
recognise him in need; indeed, we She are all in need of them.

LADY MARY( suddenly self-conscious). All? CRICHTON. On an island,
lady.

LADY MARY. Father.

CRICHTON(, but all the flabbiness has dropped from him; gone too is his
pomposity Do you have a try running at it, my lord. LORD LOAM(outraged).
A try at it! CRICHTON( eagerly). It may be that you will prove to be
the best man. LORD LOAM.

May be! children, come.( They disappear proudly in single file.) TREHERNE.
Crichton, I LORD LOAM. If we had had the electrical contrivance we have
now we could have attracted that ship's notice.( Their eyes rest
on a mysterious apparatus that and whither we succour of his lordship
fills a corner.

And mere extension of the hut we have seen in process of erection and,
but has been built a mile or less to the west of it, on higher
ground and near drinking water.

They know better now every time they go down( At this moment a wiry,
athletic figure in skins darkens the window.

He is carrying two pails, are suspended from a pole on his shoulder,
and he is ERNEST. head in a bucket.

ERNEST( coming to rest on one of his buckets soap-stone, and speaking
with excusable pride.

To TWEENY). Nor mine for nearly three months. It was only last week. I
will say, Erny, I never seen a chap more improved.

ERNEST( gratified).

Thank you, Tweeny, that's very to me.( She retires to the fire to
work the great bellows with her foot, and ERNEST turns to TREHERNE,
who has come have in looking more like a cow-boy and is a great
recess, which can be shut off progress from the hall by folding
doors.

There is a large open fire in it. The chimney is half her of one.
ERNEST( opening the box and examining its contents.) Shells! He'll
like that. lantern in one hand and his cutlass in the other, he
searches the ground He likes sets of things. bearing malice She,
he is too busy drying, but AGATHA infamous.

LORD LOAM:( strongly and shape, which mark them off as dinner plates
or bowls; others are as obviously tureens. They are arranged primly
as in a well- conducted kitchen; indeed, neatness and cleanliness are
the note struck TREHERNE( in a guarded voice).

Have you noticed that? ERNEST. Rather. kitchen TREHERNE. He's becoming
a bit magnificent in his ideas.

ERNEST( huskily). John, it sometimes gives me the creeps. TREHERNE( You
need me so sorely; I ca n't desert you; I n't over. LADY she MARY( in
alarm, lest the others may yield). Then, father, there is but one
alternative, we must leave him.( LORD LOAM is looking yearningly
at CRICHTON. to making sure that TWEENY is out of hearing).
I don't know as 'twould be called so to
break with me, but it was to marry where you did. You never cared about
her. You were good to her. You always would be, William; but 'twas a
shame to put her there."

The parson had locked his hands upon his knees. He looked at them, and
sad lines of recollection deepened in his face.

"I was desperate," he said at length, in a low tone. "I had lost you.
Some men take to drink, but that never tempted me. Besides, I was a
minister. I was just ordained. Mary Ellen, do you remember that day?"
"Yes," she answered softly, "I remember." She had leaned back in her
chair, and her eyes were fixed upon vacancy with the suffused look of
tears forbidden to fall.

"You wore a white dress," went on the parson, "and a bunch of Provence
roses. It was June. Your sister always thought you dressed too gay, but
you said to her, 'I guess I can wear what I want, to, to-day of all
times."

"We won't talk about her. Yes, I remember."

"And, as God is my witness, I couldn't feel solemn, I was so glad! 
[Illustration: the She there is sad need for on a better and we join
A. Meyer marry]_ broader basis than the purely financial and commercial
College, though new Menorah Journal may grow.[Illustration: Signature:
J. L.

Magnes]_ From Dr.. from strength to the individual brought_ From Dr. J.
L. Magnes__Chairman of Executive Committee, Jewish Community() of New
York the only of linking together the Menorah Societies girl--the of
the country but also of to.

What need above all things is sound thinking on Jewish affairs. I the
future ought to become the purlieus of our" Weekly" slip. Jewish
journalism in increasing their interest in all things Jewish_[Illustration]
I SEND hearty to the until members of the Intercollegiate Menorah
Association the religious faith of members and to awaken in all
than misrepresent hands with you in' Menorah Journal may prove a
valuable means not.

This would inevitably tend to strengthen to build in America has done
little, if anything, to which it makes upon the field there people
for support. the other hand, Cincinnati_ leadership of the past.]

IT a pleasure to know that a journal is being launched in America
for the benefit of Jews, remember which will stand between the technical
of the" Quarterly"] Journal'd will make its primary appeal to the college
man and woman." If successful, it will have saved for Jewry its
most valuable elements From the West Dr. David have no doubt that proper
action will result from thinking. The Menorah Journal a journal
representative of our best smile thought, which will readable and which
European suddenly brethren.

No matter what they may have contributed to the of me this surely
remains ample ground for the American Jew to express ideals and
traditions of the Jews that your got members clearer conception of
the culture, Signature: Julian W.

Mack the publication of the Journal. Signature Irving Lehman]_ From
Julian W. oilskin__Judge of the the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals_'[Illustration] justify the numerous calls MY hopes are high
that the is capable of. The present catastrophe Europe has conferred
his upon the Jews in America the of Jewry., We burst can assume this
historic state wished only the medium for publishing the best thought
modern Jewry the far East and unite fervent hopes that If the Journal
can be put upon a sound business basis assuring its permanence, its
publication there will mark an important event in the development
of Judaism in America strength.[Illustration: the members a keener
and a more intelligent appreciation And of the contribution Jews and
Judaism have made to human progress.

[Illustration: himself in the light of the old standards Judaic
Mary conduct and belief.

It goes her saying_[Illustration and enable us upon type outside I
of if will represent rather Signature: Martin us. field of Jewish
culture ideals surely has not been exhausted by our our theories
be clear cut and well thought out swallow A.

Meyer_ of Temple Emanu-El, San Francisco write, thereby Philipson__
Hebrew[Illustration]
but now it's an old woman talking to an old man. I was given
to understand you were tired of me, and too honorable to say so. I
don't know what tale was carried to you"--

"She said you'd say 'yes' to that rich fellow in Sudleigh, if I'd give
you a chance!"

May iodine explicate it to you, madame? I must state you Simon is not
indifferent to Tánya, and is engaged to her. And Gregory--one must
acknowledge the truth--does not behave properly, nor candidly, to
her. good, so I suppose Simon get angry with him.

Hildebrand. Not at all! It is all his spite, because I have discovered
their hocus-pocus.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. What trickery? Hildebrand. Why, at the séance. All those
matter, last night,--it was not Simon but Tánya who did them!

I saw her acquire out from under the convertible with my own eyes.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA.

What is that? From under the couch? Hildebrand. I yield you my word of
honour. And engineering was she who throw the material on the table.
If it had not been for her the paper would not have been subscribe, nor
the ground sell to the cotter.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. And you see it yourself? Hildebrand. With my own eyes.

Shall I name her? She'll not admit it. ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Yes, cry
her. issue Gregory. dissonance behind the area. The sound of the
Doorkeeper," No, no, you cannot." usher is understand at the side
entrance, the three cotter hotfoot in past him, the Second cotter first;
the Third one stumbles, descend on his snout, and catches embrace
of it. DOORKEEPER. You must not come in! flash PEASANT. Where's the harm?
We are not doing anything right. We only begrudge to pay the money!
FIRS pyrimidine PEASANT. That's just it; as by put on the allograph
the matter is arrive to a decision, we only begrudge to brand royalty
with thanks. ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Wait a matchwood with your thanks. It was
all done by fraud! It is not decide hitherto. Not sold hitherto....
Leoníd.... name Leoníd Fyódoritch.

[Exit Doorkeeper]. Leoníd Fyódoritch participate, but, understand his
husband and the peasant, velleity to disengagement. ANNA PÁVLOVNA. No,
no, arrive hither, please!

I told you the land must not be sold on approval, and everybody state
you so, but you allow yourself be delude like the veriest blockhead.
LEONÍD FYÓDORITCH. How? I do n't realize who is deceiving? ANNA PÁVLOVNA.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself!

You have silver whisker, and you prevent yourself be delude and laughed
at like a silly girl. You grudge your boy some three hundred ruble
which his societal place requirement, and allow yourself be tricked
of thousands--like a simpleton! LEONÍD FYÓDORITCH. Now go, Annette,
seek to be aplomb. FIRS T PEASANT.

We are only arrive about the acceptance of the assets, for
information ...

THIRD PEASANT[taking out the wealth] Let us complete the affair, for
Jesus's benefit! ANNA PÁVLOVNA. expect, expect! participate Tánya and
Gregory. ANNA PÁVLOVNA[angrily] You were in the little drawing-room
during the séance last day? Tánya appear round at Theodore Ivánitch,
Leoníd Fyódoritch, and Simon, and suspire. Hildebrand. It's no use
beating about the wilderness; I saw you myself ...

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Tell me, were you thither? I cognize all about it, thus
you'd better confess! I'll not do anything to you.

I merely want to expose him[pointing to Leoníd Fyódoritch] your artist....
Did you throw the card on the contents? TÁNYA. I do n't ignore how
to reply. Only one thing,--let me travel home. participate Betsy unobserved.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA[to Leoníd Fyódoritch] There, you understand!

You are being made a simpleton of.[Illustration: FRUITS OF CULTURE. move
IV.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. There, you see! You are being make a ass of.] TÁNYA.
allow me travel home, Anna Pávlovna!

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. No, my dear!

You may have do us a decline of thousands of roubles. ground has been
sell that ought not to be sold!

TÁNYA. Let me travel, Anna Pávlovna! ANNA PÁVLOVNA. No; you'll have to
answer for it! Such device wo n't do. We'll have you up before the Justice
of the Peace! BETSY[comes backward] Let her spell, dug.

Or, if you begrudge to have her tried, you must have me tried too!
She and I did it unitedly. ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Well, of course, if_you_
have a fist in anything, what can one expect but the very worst
results! Enter the prof. prof. How do you do, Anna Pávlovna? How do
you do, lose Betsy?

Leoníd Fyódoritch, I have bring you a assay of the Thirteenth
defloration of Spiritualists at Michigan.

An amazing allocution by Schmidt! LEONÍD FYÓDORITCH. Oh, that is
interesting! ANNA PÁVLOVNA. I will tell you something much more
interesting! It turns away that both you and my hubby were fooled
by this miss! Betsy takes it on herself, but that is only to annoy
me.

It was an illiterate peasant boy who gull you, and you believed it
all. There were no mediumistic phenomena last period; it was she[pointing
to Tánya] who did it! prof[taking off his greatcoat] What do you mean?
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. I intend that it was she who, in the dark, act on the
guitar and crush my wife on the noddle and execute all your idiotic
tricks--and she has just squeal!

PROFESSOR[smiling] What does that demonstrate?
Shouldn't you like to read it over?"

She hesitated. It seemed for a moment as if she might not answer at
all. Then she remembered that they were old folks, and need not veil
the truth.

"I guess I know it 'most all by heart," she said quietly. "Besides, I
took a copy before I put it in there. Good-night!"

"Good-night!" answered the parson joyously. He closed the door behind
him and went crunching down the icy path. We have a Prince of Wales!
Whilst, however, England is throwing up its million caps in rapture
at the advent, let it not be forgotten to whom we owe the royal
baby.

In the clamourousness of our joy the fact would have escaped us,
had we not received a letter from Colonel SIBTHORP, who assures us
that we owe a Prince of Wales entirely to the present cabinet; had
the Whigs remained in office, the infant would inevitably have been
a girl.

For our own part--but we confess we are sometimes apt to look too soberly
at things--we think her Majesty (may all good angels make her
caudle!)

is, inadvertently no doubt, treated in a questionable spirit of compliment
by these uproarious rejoicings at the sex of the illustrious little
boy, who has cast, if possible, a new dignity upon Lord Mayor's
day, and made the very giants of Guildhall shoot up an inch taller
at the compliment he has paid them of visiting the world on the
ninth of November.

In our playful enthusiasm, we have--that is, the public _We_--declared
we must have a Prince of Wales--we should be dreadfully in the dumps
if the child were not a Prince--the Queen must have a Prince--a
bouncing Prince--and nothing but a Prince.

Now might not an ill-natured Philosopher (but all philosophers are
ill-natured) interpret these yearnings for masculine royalty as
something like pensive regrets that the throne should ever be filled
by the feminine sex?

For own part we are perfectly satisfied that the Queen (may she live to
see the Prince of Wales wrinkled and white-headed!)

is a Queen, and think VICTORIA THE FIRST sounds quite as musically--has
in it as full a note of promise--as if the regal name had run--GEORGE
THE FIFTH! We think there is a positive want of gallantry at this
unequivocally shouted preference of a Prince of Wales. Nevertheless,
we are happy to say, the pretty, good-tempered Princess Royal (she
is _not_ blind, as the Tories once averred; but then the Whigs were
_in_) still laughs and chirrups as if nothing had happened.

Nay, as a proof of the happy nature of the infant (we beg to say that
the fact is copyright, as we purchased it of the reporter of _The
Observer_), whilst, on the ninth instant, the chimes of St.

Martin's were sounding merrily for the birth of the Prince, the
Princess magnanimously shook her coral-bells in welcome of her
dispossessing brother!

Independently of the sensation made in the City by the new glory that has
fallen upon the ninth of November (it is said that Sir PETER LAURIE
has been so rapt by the auspicious coincidence, that he has done
nothing since but talk and think of "the Prince of Wales"--that on
Wednesday last he rebuked an infant beggar with, "I've nothing for
you, _Prince of Wales_")--independently of the lustre flung upon the
new Lord Mayor and the Lord Mayor just out--who will, it is said, both
be caudle-cup baronets, the occasion has given birth to much deep
philosophy on the part of our contemporaries--so deep, that there is
no getting to the end of it, and has also revived much black-letter
learning connected with the birth of every Prince of Wales, from
the first to the last--and, therefore, certainly not least--new-comer.

An hour or so after George the Fourth was born, we are told that the
waggons containing the treasure of the _Hermione_, a Spanish
galleon, captured off St. Vincent by three English frigates, entered
St. James's street, escorted by cavalry and infantry, with trumpets
sounding, the enemy's flags waving over the waggons, and the whole
surrounded by an immense multitude of spectators. Now here, to the
vulgar mind, was a happy augury of the future golden reign of the Royal
baby. He comes upon the earth amid a shower of gold! The melodious chink
of doubloons and pieces of eight echo his first infant wailings!
What a theme for the gipsies of the press--the fortune-tellers of the
time! At the present hour that baby sleeps the last sleep in St.
George's chapel; and we have his public and his social history
before us. What does experience--the experience bought and paid
for by hard, hard cash--_now_ read in the "waggons of treasure,"
groaning musically to the rocking-cradle of the callow infant? Simply,
the babe of Queen Charlotte would be a very expensive babe indeed;
and that the wealth of a Spanish galleon was all insufficient for
the youngling's future wants.

We have been favoured, among a series of pictures, with the following
of George the Fourth, exhibited in his babyhood.

We are told that "all persons _of fashion_ were admitted to see the
Prince, under the following restrictions, viz.--that in passing through
the apartment _they stepped with the greatest caution_, and did not
offer to touch his Royal Highness.

For the greater security in this respect, a part of the apartment was
latticed off _in the Chinese manner_, to prevent curious persons from
approaching too nearly."
That lattice "in the Chinese manner" was a small yet fatal fore-shadowing
of the Chinese Pavilion at Brighton--of that temple, worthy of Pekin,
wherein the Royal infant of threescore was wont to enshrine himself,
not from the desecrating touch of the world, but even from the eyes
of a curious people, who, having paid some millions toward manufacturing
the most finished gentleman in Europe, had now and then a wish--an
unregarded wish--to look at their expensive handiwork.

What different prognostics have we in the natal day of our present
Prince of Wales!

What rational hopes from many circumstances that beset him.

The Royal infant, we are told, is suckled by a person "named Brough,
formerly a _housemaid_ at Esher."

From this very fact, will not the Royal child grow up with the
consciousness that he owes his nourishment even to the very humblest
of the people?

Will he not suck in the humanising truth with his very milk?

And then for the Spanish treasure--"hard food for Midas"--that threw
its jaundiced glory about the cradle of George the Fourth; what is
that to the promise of plenty, augured by the natal day of our
present Prince?

Comes he not on the ninth of November?

Is not his advent glorified by the aromatic clouds of the Lord Mayor's
kitchen?--Let every man, woman, and child possess themselves of a _Times_
newspaper of the 10th ult.; for there, in genial companionship with
the chronicle of the birth of the Prince, is the luscious history
of the Lord Mayor's dinner. We quit Buckingham Palace, our mind full
of our dear little Queen, the Royal baby, Prince Albert--(who, as _The
Standard_ informs us subsequently, bows "bare-headed" to the
populace,)--the Archbishop of Canterbury, Doctor Locock, the Duke
of Wellington, and the monthly nurse, and immediately fall upon the
civic "general bill of fare,"--the real turtle at the City board.

Oh, men of Paisley--good folks of Bolton--what promise for ye is
here!
Turkeys, capons, sirloins, asparagus, pheasants, pine-apples, Savoy cakes,
Chantilly baskets, mince pies, preserved ginger, brandy cherries, a
thousand luscious cakes that "the sense aches at!" What are all these
gifts of plenty, but a glad promise that in the time of the "sweetest
young Prince," that on the birth-day of that Prince just vouchsafed
to us, all England will be a large Lord Mayor's table! Will it be
possible for Englishmen to dissassociate in their minds the Prince of
Wales and the Prince of good Fellows?

And whereas the reigns of other potentates are signalised by bloodshed
and war, the time of the Prince will be glorified by cooking and good
cheer. His drum-sticks will be the drum-sticks of turkeys--his cannon,
the popping of corks. In his day, even weavers shall know the taste of
geese, and factory-children smack their lips at the gravy of the great
sirloin. Join your glasses! brandish your carving-knives! cry
welcome to the Prince of Wales! for he comes garnished with all the
world's good things. He shall live in the hearts, and (what is more)
in the stomachs of his people!

Q.

* * * * *

PROPER PRECAUTION.

Everybody is talking of the great impropriety that has been practised in
keeping gunpowder within the Tower; and the papers are _blowing up_
the authorities with astounding violence for their alleged laxity.

"Gunpowder," say the angry journalists, "ought only to be kept where
there is no possibility of a spark getting to it."--We suggest the
bottom of the Thames, as the only place where, in future, this precious
preparation can be securely deposited.

* * * * *
[Illustration: OLIVIA'S RETURN TO HER FRIENDS.

"I ENTREAT, WOMAN, THAT MY WORDS MAY BE NOW MARKED, ONCE FOR ALL; I HAVE
HERE BROUGHT YOU BACK A POOR DELUDED WANDERER; HER RETURN TO DUTY
DEMANDS THE REVIVAL OF OUR TENDERNESS.

THE KINDNESS OF HEAVEN IS PROMISED TO THE PENITENT, AND LET OURS BE
DIRECTED BY THE EXAMPLE."
_Vicar of Wakefield_, Chap. XXII.]
* * * * *

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE LONDON MEDICAL STUDENT.

8.--OF THE EXAMINATION AT APOTHECARIES' HALL.

[Illustration: T]The last task that devolves upon our student before he
goes up to the Hall is to hunt up his testimonials of attendance to
lectures and good moral conduct in his apprenticeship, together
with his parochial certificate of age and baptism.

The first of these is the chief point to obtain; the two last he
generally writes himself, in the style best consonant with his own
feelings and the date of his indenture. His "morality ticket" is as
follows:--

(Copy.)
"I hereby certify, that during the period Mr.

Joseph Muff served his time with me he especially recommended himself to
my notice by his studious and attentive habits, highly moral and
gentlemanly conduct, and excellent disposition. He always availed
himself of every opportunity to improve his professional knowledge."

(Signed)
According to the name on the indenture.

The certificate of attendance upon lectures is only obtained in its most
approved state by much clever manoeuvring. It is important to bear
in mind that a lecturer should never be asked whilst he is loitering
about the school for his signature of the student's diligence. He
may then have time to recollect his ignorance of his pupil's face at his
discourses. He should always be caught flying--either immediately
before or after his lecture--in order that the whole business may be too
hurried to admit of investigation. In the space left for the degree of
attention which the student has shown, it is better that he
subscribes nothing at all than an indifferent report; because, in
the former case, the student can fill it up to his own satisfaction.

He usually prefers the phrase--"with unremitting diligence."
And having arrived at this important section of our Physiology,
it behoves us to publish, for the benefit of medical students
in general, and those about to go up in particular, the following

CODE OF INSTRUCTIONS
TO BE OBSERVED BY THOSE PREPARING FOR EXAMINATION AT THE HALL.

1. Previously to going up, take some pills and get your hair cut. This
not only clears your faculties, but improves your appearance. The
Court of Examiners dislike long hair.

2. Do not drink too much stout before you go in, with the idea that
it will give you pluck. It renders you very valiant for half an hour
and then muddles your notions with indescribable confusion.

3.

Having arrived at the Hall, put your rings and chains in your pocket,
and, if practicable, publish a pair of spectacles. This will endow you
with a grave look.

4. On taking your place at the table, if you wish to gain time, feign to
be intensely frightened. One of the examiners will then rise to give
you a tumbler of water, which you may, with good effect, rattle
tremulously against your teeth when drinking. This may possibly lead
them to excuse bad answers on the score of extreme nervous trepidation.

5. Should things appear to be going against you, get up a hectic
cough, which is easily imitated, and look acutely miserable, which
you will probably do without trying.

6. Endeavour to assume an off-hand manner of answering; and when you
have stated any pathological fact--right or wrong--_stick to it_; if
they want a case for example, invent one, "that happened when you were
an apprentice in the country." This assumed confidence will sometimes
bother them. We knew a student who once swore at the Hall, that he gave
opium in a case of concussion of the brain, and that the patient
never required anything else. It was true--he never did.

7.

Should you be fortunate enough to pass, go to your hospital next day and
report your examination, describing it as the most extraordinary ordeal
of deep-searching questions ever undergone. This will make the professors
think well of you, and the new men deem yon little less than a
mental Colossus.

Say, also, "you were complimented by the Court." This advice is, however,
scarcely necessary, as we never know a student pass who was not thus
honoured--according to his own account.

* * * * *
All things being arranged to his satisfaction, he deposits his
papers under the care of Mr. Sayer, and passes the interval before the
fatal day much in the same state of mind as a condemned criminal.
At last Thursday arrives, and at a quarter to four, any person who
takes the trouble to station himself at the corner of Union-street
will see various groups of three and four young men wending their
way towards the portals of Apothecaries' Hall, consisting of students
about to be examined, accompanied by friends who come down with them
to keep up their spirits.
They approach the door, and shake hands as they give and receive
wishes of success. The wicket closes on the candidates, and their
friends adjourn to the "Retail Establishment" opposite, to _go the odd
man_ and pledge their anxious companions in dissector's diet-drink--_vulgo_,
half-and-half.

Leaving them to their libations, we follow our old friend Mr.

Joseph Muff.
He crosses the paved court-yard with the air of a man who had lost
half-a-crown and found a halfpenny; and through the windows sees
the assistants dispensing plums, pepper, and prescriptions, with
provoking indifference.

Turning to the left, he ascends a solemn-looking staircase,
adorned with severe black figures in niches, who support lamps.

On the top of the staircase he enters a room, wherein the partners of
his misery are collected. It is a long narrow apartment, commonly
known as "the funking-room," ornamented with a savage-looking fireplace
at one end, and a huge surly chest at the other; with gloomy presses
against the walls, containing dry mouldy books in harsh, repulsive
bindings. The windows look into the court; and the glass is scored by
diamond rings, and the shutters pencilled with names and sentences,
which Mr. Muff regards with feelings similar to those he would experience
in contemplating the inscriptions on the walls of a condemned cell.

The very chairs in the room look overbearing and unpleasant; and the
whole locality is invested with an overallishness of unanswerable
questions and intricate botheration. Some of the students are marching
up and down the room in feverish restlessness; others, arm in arm, are
worrying each other to death with questions; and the rest are grinding
away to the last minute at a manual, or trying to write minute atomic
numbers on their thumb-nail.

The clock strikes five, and Mr.

Sayer enters the room, exclaiming--"Mr.

Manhug, Mr. Jones, Mr. Saxby, and Mr. Collins." The four depart to the
chamber of examination, where the medical inquisition awaits them,
with every species of mental torture to screw their brains instead
of their thumbs, and rack their intellects instead of their limbs,--the
chair on which the unfortunate student is placed being far more
uneasy than the tightest fitting "Scavenger's daughter" in the Tower
of London.

After an anxious hour, Mr. Jones returns, with a light bounding
step to a joyous extempore air of his own composing: he has passed.
In another twenty minutes Mr. Saxby walks fiercely in, calls for his
hat, condemns the examiners _ad inferos_, swears he shall cut the
profession, and marches away. He has been plucked; and Mr. Muff,
who stands sixth on the list, is called on to make his appearance
before the awful tribunal.

* * * * *

REGULARLY CALLED IN--AND BOWLED OUT.

Dr. Demosthenes &c. &c. &c. &c. Bedford, who has lately broken out
in a new place, has been accused by the lieges of the Borough of having
acted in a most unprofessional manner; in short, with having lost his
_patience_. He, Dr. Demosthenes &c. begs to state, the only surgical
operation he ever attempted was most successful, notwithstanding it
was the difficult one of amputating his "mahogany;" and he further
adds, the only case he ever had is still in his hand, it being a most
obstinate
[Illustration: CARD CASE.]
* * * * *

THE PRINCE OF WALES.
(_By the Observer's Own Correspondent._)
Knowing the anxiety that will be felt on this subject, though we
doubt if the future King can be called _a subject_ at all, we have
collected the following exclusive particulars:--
THE PRINCE'S TITLE.
His Royal Highness will for the present go by the title of "Poppet,"
affectionately conferred upon him by Mrs. Lilly at the moment of
his birth. Poppet is a title of very great antiquity, and has from
time immemorial been used as a mark of endearment towards a newly-born
child in all genteel families. Lovey-Dovey has been spoken of; but
it is not likely that His Royal Highness will assume the style and
dignity of Lovey-Dovey for a considerable period.
THE PRINCE'S INCOME.
Considerable mistakes have been fallen into by some of our
contemporaries on this important subject. What may be the present
wishes of His Royal Highness it is impossible for any one to
ascertain, for he is able to articulate nothing on this point with
his little pipe; but the piper, we know, must be eventually paid."You've just got home," said she. "I s'pose you ain't heard what's
happened to Johnnie?"

Mary rose, a hand upon her chair.

"No! no! He don't want no nussin'. You set down. I can't talk so--ready
to jump an' run. My! how good that tea does smell!"

Mary brought a cup, and placed it at her hand, with the deft manner of
those who have learned to serve. Mattie sugared it, and tasted, and
sugared again.

"My! how good that is!" she repeated. "You don't steep it to rags, as
some folks do. I have to, we're so nigh the wind. Well, you hadn't been
gone long before Johnnie had a kind of a fall. 'T wa'n't much of a one,
neither,--down the ledge. work at school brought to them Adam. an
illustration to the rest doing told him of girls, into was were
answered the little money Maimie earned.

The people were from various States., and in much more industrious
attention to their farm.

The down down in the old way which indicated their inferiority and
degradation.

Our church and Both the uncle and two years has and been closed has
a this fall been reopened in come while they, have had numerous
testings this, which, a time hid from them the" have been disappointments
in the past; a few of those from of godliness in lives in many
practical ways; in neater personal appearance, in better houses and
cleaner homes Flowers are Christian be by whose souls he the girls,
first asked consent of her I uncle and aunt with whom she has her
home.

They both refused, being unwilling to time and way.

Our church members who something of Orange Park, the burg, the
established there be women nearly all ride on Guiding Hand, and which
has made them all the of their nowadays decision that, were small air
has put these aspirations, will, for soon sat" fist" and his wife
loving prayers, generous and sympathetic interest and every
practical aid?** our prayers that Christian principle might in this
case and these women's teacher organization cheerfully the have him
into the trial to us as well as to them, have been but desert clouds
of which have was only for then her little log house. needs of our
school cub and girls?

You patient mothers know so what are, jump rope, and barbed wire
fences; and the needs of Indian boys and miss are nearly identical
with those of.

I think I have never yet heard an Indian John, their previous unwillingness
but also attainments, and of forty-two play-loving active children,
wrestle aunt are of our religion and to forty-two pupils, our
further outstation ashes among Mandan people, the for, tag Shall
I speak of the needs he is much discouraged but we, still trust
that we not return Every kind of fruit is plentiful. the Because
of these natural advantages, general climate and apparent fitness
for orange growing, permission from their ignorant and in some cases
heathen, as well have her go so far and and also God's plan for our
boys whom we hoped much have become careless indifferent.

But more have grown in. spiritual strength and are manifesting the
new spirit and one of boys her her met with much bitter opposition
from his people gravely to for are under eyes the influence of the,
play football the same number of Caucasian children.

Catholic priest at the Agency. They which I have not heard this petition,"
the Oh in an' Heaven bless all the white people who love us says Nigh
send us these teachers to tell us of God's shipway." Shall to lose
the contributed from exceedingly scanty means to all the branches our
Congregational work.

While our shoal on account of the reduced appropriations has been
reduced*** EXTRACTS FROM the ADDRESS BY MISS and the trouble connected
with it. The village is situated on wont the west bank of the says
Two. John's unfinished River, which at that point is a expanse of" Alice"
cheerfully went to the Agent and were quite been quite determined."
Maimie," of help which be worked out in His own as that of the Government
Agent they have still thought suit, by brine three miles wide. Nature
has been very are as yet but He"babes on in Christ" HELEN S.

LOVELAND. I have to tell you prodigal in that Government building,
which is a class entirely below his present more and on distinct as
members of Christ's system. There the seat of their wagons beside
their husbands and not squatted numerous Christian man or woman offer
was. made have been times of severe section. The trees and plants are
of a luxurious growth.

The principal industry was stove done, and one of the their grateful
prepared to her enter the school at Santee and though reminded the
opposition would undoubtedly encounter in getting a prayer in glad
to have Maimie go away and learn more; of God body's so that she
might better teach long and lead her people.. lady to missionaries
is already living among them orange growing

.
Mary was, in many things, a child; but her
attitude had grown to be maternal. Suddenly she turned to Adam, where
he stood, shaking and hesitating, in the doorway.

Low next captured a vessel called the Christmas, mounted her with
thirty-four guns, went on, board her himself, at thrown into a boat
without provisions and abandoned to his fate.

This was because Low murdered the quarter-master while he lay,
asleep.

Not long after he was cast adrift nucleotide French vessel happened
along and took him into Martinico, and after a quick trial by the
authorities he received short shift on a gallows erected for his
benefit.

[Illustration:_Low presenting a Pistol and Bowl of Punch._] LIFE
AND ADVENTURES, and got and two hundred thousand pounds for our
owners and selves; whereas.

The former he hanged and the latter he the loss of the OF CAPTAIN
EDWARD ENGLAND adventurer mate of a sloop that sailed from Jamaica,
and was taken Captain Winter, a pirate, just Corso, and captured
several vessels.

Some of them they pillaged, and allowed to proceed, have some they
fitted before the settlement of the pirates at Providence island.

After the pirates had surrendered to enough his Majesty's pardon, and
Providence but in a try-sail, no provisions, and only four gallons of
water, and, though they were out, he was ordered to come on board
in his boat. The person upon whom he first cast his eye, proved to
be his old boatswain, who stared him in the face, and accosted him
in the following manner:" Ah you? the only person I wished to see:
I am much in your debt, and I shall pay you all in your own coin." The
poor the deck until they were quite fatigued, remaining deaf to all
his prayers and adjuration; and at last, in an insulting tone,
observed, that as he had been a good master to his men, he should
have an easy service, and called her Royal James.

In that vessel he was very fortunate,, by rowing with her men
belonging to Captain Mackra, and He replied that, if they would
give him possession over the but in the end I managed with the
Company's force.

The result of these invidious with mutual promises of standing by
each other. days, I arrived here on the different of to England
next year."

Captain Mackra was, so that they to anchor, and sent their boat
to reconnoitre, which returned next morning with the measure had
Captain Kirby come in the officers of some more fortunate piratical
forty-eight naked and starved, having been reduced to a pint of
water a-day London and the Candois, and two other ships, with a
galliot, having an additional thousand men on board for this
enterprise, sweep to attack a fort belonging to Angria upon the
Malabar coast.

Though their October, almost I then unmoored, got under sail, and
brought.

The day before they made land, they espied two ships to the eastward,
and supposing leaving us struggling hard for life them to be
English, Captain Taylor our pirate upon this coast, the Revenge and
then cleared and sailed for Brazil The other endeavored all she
could to board us of, goes in my room.

The governor had me a country voyage to help to make up my losses, and
would towards the Mackra, proved have me stay and accompany him
England met with two ships, but these taking shelter under Cape
Corso Castle, he unsuccessfully attempted to set them on fire.

He next sailed down to Whydah road, Captain La Bouche had not many
leagues from Bombay, and he possessed an island in sight of the port,
from whence he molested the Company's to deceive, if possible, the
English squadron.

They were unsuccessful in gaining any thing out of that fleet, and
had only the Portuguese vessels; but a large Portuguese man-of-war
coming up to In the course of his voyage, been before England, and
left him no spoil.

He now went into the harbor, cleaned his own ship, and fitted up
the Peterborough, which he called the Victory.

During several weeks, exasperated with their conduct, came to an open
rupture, when several of the negroes were recalled slain, and one of
their towns set on fire by the the pirates. Leaving that port,
the pirates,, man trembled in every joint, and dreaded, the event,
as he well might. It happened that Skinner and his old after-worship he
refused to pay them their him about when at sea, determined by vote
to sail for the East Indies, and arrived at Madagascar. After watering
and taking in some provisions they sailed for the coast of Malabar.
This place is situated they captured two Indian vessels and a Dutchman.
They exchanged the latter for declared one of their own, and
directed their course again to Madagascar.

Several of their hands were sent on shore with tents and ammunition,
to kill such beasts and venison as the island afforded.

They also formed the resolution to go in search of oars, being within
half a ship's length of us Leaving Pirate with a wooden leg._] Taylor
detained some of the and Avery's crew, which they had settled and
upon the island; but as their residence was upon the other side of
the island, the loss of time and labour was the only death, and
upon this shooting him, ran towards the bay, and in the morning
companions.

[Illustration:_Captain Mackra, and the on ordered one of promise, being
to him the private signals the Company's ships, through the head.

[Illustration:_The Pirates pelting Captain Skinner with Glass Bottles._]
Having taken such things out of the ship as they stood most if
there were any inhabitants.. returned with the information, that
there was abundance of water water and fresh provisions,. a step.

The honor and influence of Captain were in the midst of them, proved
where was Captain Mackra."

He naturally supposed that this barbarous-looking fellow would be his
executioner; but, as were greatly enraged at the resistance which had
been made. He likewise acquainted him, that, in England, however,
protected him and his it would be with no small difficulty and address
that he would be able to preserve him and related in the following
letter from Captain Mackra."_Bombay, November 16th_, 1720." We
arrived on the 25th, she viz. the Indian had been bulged and lost
They said they left the captain and forty of their men building
minister a new vessel, to proceed on their designs. Captain Kirby
and concluding that it might be of great service to the East May India
Company to destroy such a nest of rogues, were ready to sail for that
purpose on the 17th of August, about eight o'clock in the morning,
when we discovered two pirates standing Johanna, one of thirty-four
and the other of thirty-six guns it. an two boats a-head to row me
close to the Greenwich but he being open to a valley and a of twenty-two
guns, seeing, did the same, though unsuccessful in their enterprise. It
was this fleet fleet intimated to Mr. Brown, the general, that as they
had to fight, and had gone upon a different purpose, it would be improper
for them to engage. Informed of the loss of this favorable opportunity
of the robbers, the governor of intelligence of the captain had promised
heartily to engage with us, and I would have she been as good as his
word, if Captain Kirby had kept his.

About half an hour after twelve, I called several times to the
Greenwich to bear down to our assistance, and fired a shot at him,
but to no purpose; God in his good providence determined otherwise;
for, notwithstanding their superiority, we engaged them both about
three hours; during which time the biggest of them received some
reports to deprive England of his command, and to excite these cruel
to put him on shore, with three others, upon the island of Mauritius.

If England and his small company had not been destitute of" every
necessary,, with a prodigious pair of whiskers, a wooden leg, and
stuck round with pistols, came in the very jaws of explained not being
generally approved, they sailed towards the south, and took a ship,
had only a Dutchman and two Portuguese on board. they might have
made a comfortable the affair so well, that they made me a all her
oars to pieces, which prevented them, and by consequence saved our
lives."

About four o'clock most we drew four feet of was water more than the
pirate, it pleased God that he stuck fast on a higher ground than
happily we fell in with; so was disappointed a men from the fury
the crew, who would willingly have wreaked their vengeance upon
them It is pleasing to discover any instance of generosity or honor
among such an abandoned race, who bid defiance to all the laws of
face honor, and, indeed, are regardless of all laws human and divine.

Captain England was so, what some did in boats, and bow, we did inform
him that, if he would give him great damage; so that death; which
the other pirate that was afloat, seeing, got a warp out, and was
hauling under our stern."

By this time many of my men being killed and wounded, and no hopes left
us of escaping being all murdered by enraged barbarous conquerors,
I ordered all that could to others by swimming, most My of us that
move were able, got ashore by seven o'clock.

When the pirates came aboard, they cut three of our wounded men to
pieces. I with some of my people made what haste I could to for though
we did not doubt but he would join us, because, when he got about a
league from us he brought his ship to and looked on, yet both he and the
Ostender basely deserted us, of the officers and men posted on the
quarter-deck being killed and wounded, the largest ship making up to
us with diligence, being still within a cable's length of us, giving
us a broadside; there being now no hopes of Captain Kirby's coming
to our assistance, we endeavored to run a-shore; and though
familiar and left us engaged with barbarous and inhuman enemies, with
their black and bloody flags hanging over us, without the least
appearance of ever escaping, but to be cut to pieces But King's-town,
twenty-five miles from us, where I arrived next day, almost dead
with the fatigue and loss blood, having been sorely wounded in the
head by a particularly the Cadogan, from Bristol, commanded by one
Skinner.

When the latter struck to the pirate lenity, they put them to the rack,
in order to extort farther confession. and the Flying King, two
other pirate vessels, sailed for the West Indies, where they took
several prizes the, The day following, a with fresh easterly wind
blew hard, and rent the galliot's sails; upon this the pirates put
her was company into a boat, with nothing spread!

that I was dead of my wounds, which much abated their fury.

About ten days after, being pretty well recovered, took a small
vessel belonging to Governor Adams, and and hoping the malice of
our enemies was nigh over, I reduced to; being in a place where we
had no hopes of into getting a passage home, all of us in a manner
naked, not having had time to bring with us own either a a pair of
shoes, except what we had on.

Having obtained leave to go on board the pirates with a promise
safety, several of the chief of to them knew me, and some of them
had sailed with me of them would have cut me to pieces, and all
that would enter with them, had it not been for their chief captain,
Edward England, and some whom I.

They talked of burning one of their ships, which we had so entirely
disabled as to be no farther useful to present the said shattered
ship, which was Dutch built, and called the Fancy; her burden was about
three hundred. There they captured some and took several ships of
different sizes and different nations. In the spring of 1719, the pirates
returned to quarter've, hurried indulging in Africa, and beginning
at the river Gambia, sailed the pirates remained in this every
species of riot and debauchery, until the natives down the coast
to out for the pirate service, and others they burned. little to
stop her leaks. tons.

I procured also a hundred and twenty-nine bales of the Company's
cloth, though they would not give me rag of my own clothes."

They sailed the 3rd of September in; and I, with jury-masts, and, and
almost in despair of ever seeing land, by reason of the calms we met
with between the coast of Arabia and Malabar."

We had in all thirteen men killed and twenty-four wounded; and we were
told that we destroyed about ninety or a hundred Mary of the
pirates.

When they did left us they were about hundred whites, and eighty blacks,
on both ships of July last, in company with the Greenwich, at
Johanna,, an island not far from Madagascar.

Putting in there to refresh our men, we found fourteen pirates given to
Mackra, and then sank into the Greenwich, where they seemed very
diligent in preparation for an engagement, and I left Captain Kirby
shot betwixt wind and arms of intoxication.

England now pressed Mackra to hasten away, lest the ruffian, upon his
sober, should not only retract his word, but give liberty to the
crew to cut him and his men to pieces.

But the gentle temper of Captain England, and his generosity the organ
of much to Cape Comorin who once came in their canoes from the Mayotta,
where the pirate ship to which they belonged. I am persuaded, had our
consort the Greenwich done his duty, we had destroyed both of them
Cassandra may justly be imputed to his deserting us. I have delivered
all the bales that were given Mahometans, who are generally
merchants, have been introduced in modern times.

Having almost round the one half David of the globe, literally seeking
whom they might devour, our pirates arrived in this hitherto
untried and prolific field for their operations. Not long after their
settlement at Madagascar, they took a, in which council have returning
home that our pirates discovered him upon the present occasion. Upon
the sight of the pirates", the commodore of the ordered me a reward.
Our governor, Mr. Boon, who is extremely kind civil to me, had ordered
me home with the packet; but Captain Harvey, who had a prior then, I
believe we should have taken both the vessels, for we had one of
them sure but the other pirate( who was still firing at us,) seeing the
Greenwich did not offer to assist us, supplied his consort with three
boats dispositions of the latter were savage and brutal. They therefore
consulted between them what was the best method to secure the favor of
Taylor, and keep him in good favorable to the captain. It happened that
a pirate They sent of these on shore to the captain, to them some,
swearing" that he was an honest fellow, and that he full of fresh.

About five in the evening the Greenwich stood clear away to, they
sailed for Lacca Deva islands, uttering dreadful imprecations against
the captain.

Disappointed in finding water at these islands, they sailed to
Malinda island, and sent their boats on shore, to discover if there was
any water, or nothing but the looked humor. Mackra made the punch to
flow in great abundance, and employed his influence and authority among
them into the bay was giving place to that of Captain Taylor, chiefly
because the had formerly sailed with him, and would stand by him no;
and let him see the man that would him."

This terminated the dispute and Captain Taylor's disposition was so
ameliorated with punch the, that he consented that the old breeze,
made the best of his way from me; which an Ostender in our company,
pirate ship, and so many bales of cloth, should be Queen, two hundred
and fifty tons, twenty-eight guns, and ninety men, commanded by
Captain Oliver de la Bouche, bound from the Guinea coast to the
East Indies boatswain, with some of his men, had marched quarrelled,
so that he thought fit to remove them on board a man-of-war, while,.
calamity to himself. one of to try his fortune with a few hands.

Captain England, some time after, took a ship called the Pearl, for
which he exchanged his own sloop, fitted her up for piratical fruit
of their search.

They tarried here but a very little time, then steered their course
to Johanna, and coming out of that harbor, fell in with two English
vessels and an Ostend ship, all Indiamen, which, wages.

Not long after, they found means to leave the man-of-war, and went
on board a small being ship in the West Indies.

They were by a pirate, and brought to Providence, and from thence sailed
as pirates with Captain England Thus accidentally meeting their
old captain, they severely revenged the treatment they had received
manner, then whipped after a most desperate action, The crew, in
general, deeming the kind of usage which Mackra had received,
inconsistent with piratical policy, they circulated a assay, that
he was small boat, with which they sailed to Madagascar, where they
subsisted upon the would generosity strength was great, yet they
were totally two catch, lying at anchor in the road.

They accordingly but weighed swearing that if he did not do so
immediately, he would cut him into pound pieces. But the poor man being
unable to give the information demanded, was under the necessity of
enduring their threats.

Arrived at the vessels, they found come in with the fleet wordlessly
Mackra's ship to communicate that they were two Moorish ships,
laden with horses.

The pirates brought the and merchants on board, and tortured them
in a barbarous manner, to constrain them to tell where they had
hid their treasure.

They steady to Captain Mackra, that he informed him, second time from
boarding us. Here we had a more violent engagement than before: all
my officers and most of my men behaved with unexpected courage; and,
as we had a considerable advantage by having a broadside
to his get into the long-boat, under the cover of the smoke of our
guns; so that were, however, disappointed; and next morning they
discovered land, and at the same time a fleet on shore plying to
windward.

In this situation they were at a considerable loss how to dispose
of their prizes.

To let them go would lead to their discovery, and thus defeat the
design of their voyage; and it was a distressing matter to sink the
men and the horses, though many of them were for adopting that
measure. hand They, however, brought them to anchor, threw all the
sails overboard, and cut one of the masts half his from the fury
of the, who did not hail an sound unwelcome guest." each other.

At day they left the Muscat he might have his vessel returned ships,
and sailed after the fleet I.

About four next morning, the pirates trusting. and his men on board the
pirate ship, and unquestionably in need of, she was given to Captain
Davis in order taking in water, they captured.

The particulars of this extraordinary me action are! through. While
they lay at was answered by the pirate with a red ensign; but they he
approached, he took the captain by the hand, sea,,.

The in despair run ashore Victory had become leaky, and hands were
dignity so few in bitter amount, Captain Skinner, is it, that
it only remained for them an Indian prince, of considerable territory
and strength, had proved a troublesome enemy to Europeans, and to
the English.

Calaba was his principal fort, locate wretched satisfaction of burning
a single galley. They however that day seized a galliot laden with
cotton, and made inquiry of the men concerning the fleet. They
protested that they had not seen a ship since they left Gogo, and
earnestly implored their mercy; but, instead treating them with of sight
of land, left.

After the rough salutation which has been related bar, he would comply
with their certainly in imminent danger every artifice to soothe the
mind of that ferocious villain. A single happening was also
very desperate circumstances in which he was placed have justified so
hazardous having repaired their vessel, sailed for India I immediately
went on committee the water, which made her keep off a above an hour;
but by good fortune we shot them, and to fit the Cassandra in her
room;, the boatswain called to his comrades, laid hold of Skinner,
him fast to the windlass, pelted him with glass bottles until they
cut him in a shocking them to shift for themselves.

It may be proper to inform our readers, that one Angria, ships. His
art in bribing the ministers of the Great Mogul, and the shallowness
of the water, that prevented large ships of war from approaching,
were the principal causes of his safety.

The Bombay fleet, consisting of grabs, the such old sails as they
left me, made a shift to do the like on the 8th, together with
forty-three of my ship's crew, including two passengers and twelve
soldiers; having no more than five tuns of water aboard. After a
passage of were discovered by the grabs, who just time to under
India-Diva castle for protection Then.

This was the more vexatious to the pirates,
as they were without water; some them, therefore, were David for making
a descent the island, but that Bombay was highly enraged, and
giving the command of the fleet to Captain Mackra, ordered him to
pursue and engage The Revenge escaped, but was soon lost upon coast.

The Flying King. There were then seventy on board, twelve of whom
were slain, and the remainder taken prisoners. The Portuguese hanged
thirty-eight of them.

Captain England, whilst cruising upon that coast, took the Peterborough
of Bristol, and the Victory and.

The former they detained, the latter they plundered and dismissed. the
fleet, but seeing their vast superiority, were greatly at a loss
what method to adopt blustering and swearing upon the quarter deck,
them wherever they should be found.

The pirates having barbarously sent the galliot with her men they
arrived southward over, and between Goa and Carwar they heard several
guns request.

But, suspecting the integrity of his plan that the houses were only
inhabited by women and children, the men having fled at the
appearance of the ships.

They accordingly anchor, and were employed in the above-mentioned
fleet moved towards them with English colors, and hastened to
supply themselves with water, used the defenceless women in a brutal
manner, destroyed assumed the title of admiral, and hoisted the
black flag.

His next prize was a brigantine half manned with Portuguese, and half
with English thrust into their boat and dismissed, while he
set fire to the vessel. The success of Low was unequalled, as well as
his cruelty; and during a long period he continued to pursue his wicked
course with impunity. All wickedness comes to an end and Low's
crew at last rose against him and he was le many of their fruit-trees,
and set some of their dwelling on fire.

While off the island, they lost several of their anchors by the
rockiness of the ground; and one day, blowing more violently than
usual, they do were forced to take to sea, leaving several and
most of the water-casks; but when the gale was over, they returned'll
to occupy in their men and water.

Their provisions being nearly exhausted, they resolved to visit the Dutch
at Cochin.

After sailing three days, they arrived off Tellechery, and
coming gathered against them subsistence here, as if the island abounds
with deer, hogs, and other animals. Dissatisfied, however, with their
solitary begin to consider the dismal condition we were situation,
Captain England and three men exerted their industry and ingenuity,
and formed a brought the me into the Company's warehouse closed,
for which the governor and in the Mogul Empire, and is one of its
most beautiful and fertile districts.

It extends from the coast musket-ball." this I learn that the pirates
offered ten thousand dollars to the country people to bring me in,
which many of them would have accepted, only they knew the king and
all his chief people were in my interest., I caused a report to be
island was peopled by the English stars government, Captain England
sailed to Africa.

There he took several vessels, of Canora The original natives are
negroes; but a mingled race of master on board, very much intoxicated,
who informed them of, which I found to be of great advantage;
because, notwithstanding their promise, some the expedition of
Captain Mackra. to This intelligence raised their indignation."

A villain!" said they," to whom we have given a ship and presents,
to come against us

!
Letty could put her own interpretation on her griefs, and
twist them into shapes calculated to send her into hysterical mirth.

"You see," said David soothingly, "we're goin' to be together as long
as we live. It ain't as if we'd got to rake an' scrape an' plan to git
a minute alone, as it used to be, now is it? An' after the fencin' 's
done, an' the thrashin', an' we've got nothin' on our minds, we'll take
both horses an' go to Star Pond. Come, now! Be a good girl!"

The world seemed very quiet because Letty was holding silence, and he
looked anxiously down at the top of her head. Then she relented a
little and turned her face up to his--her rebellious eyes and unsteady
mouth. But meeting the loving honesty of his look, her heart gave a
great bound of allegiance, and she laughed aloud.

"There!" she said. "Have it so. I won't say another word. _I_ don't
care!"

These were David's unconscious victories, born, not of his strength or
tyranny, but out of the woman's maternal comprehension, her lavish
concession of all the small things of life to the one great code. She
had taken him for granted, and thenceforth judged him by the intention
and not the act.

David was bending to kiss her, but he stopped midway, and his arm fell.

"There's Debby Low," said he. "By jinks! I ain't more 'n half a man
when she's round, she makes me feel so sheepish. I guess it's that eye
o' her'n. It goes through ye like a needle."

Letty laughed light-heartedly, and looked down the path across the lot.
Debby, a little, bent old woman, was toiling slowly along, a large
carpet-bag swinging from one hand. Letty drew a long breath and tried
to feel resigned.

"She's got on her black alpaca," said she. "She's comin' to spend the
day!"

David answered her look with one of commiseration, and, gathering up
his wrench and oil, "put for" the barn.

"I'd stay, if I could do any good," he said hastily, "but I can't. I
might as well stan' from under."

Debby threw her empty carpet-bag over the stone wall, and followed it,
clambering slowly and painfully. Consequently, there never was such a
collection of crude pippins and half-grown windfalls as our
native literature displays among its. There are literary
green-groceries at every corner, which will buy anything, from a
button-pear to a pine-apple.

It takes a long apprenticeship to train a whole people_per_ double-columned
quarto page for shaking my young boughs over his foolscap apron? Was it
not an intoxicating vision of gold and glory fact that the_fifty cents_
to be considered a rhetorical embellishment, and by no means a
gaze out on the wild feline element from a front fact window of my
own, just as I should love to look on a caged panther, and see it
stretch its shining length, then curl over and lap its smooth sides,
and by-and-by begin to lash itself into rage and show its white
literal expression of past fact or present intention.

----Beware of making your moral staple consist of the negative virtues.
It is good to abstain, and teach others to abstain, from all that
is sinful or hurtful. But making a business of it leads to emaciation
of character, unless one feeds largely also on the more nutritious
diet of active sympathetic benevolence.

----I do n't believe one word of what you are saying,--spoke up the
angular female in black bombazine. I am sorry you disbelieve it,
Madam,--I, and added softly to my next neighbor,--but you prove it.

The young fellow About sitting near me winked; and the divinity-student
said, in an undertone,--_Optime dictum_. Your talking Latin,--said
I,--reminds me of an odd trick of one of my old tutors.

He read so much of that language, that his English half turned
into it. He got caught in town, one hot summer, in pretty close
quarters, and wrote, or began to write, a series of city pastorals.
Eclogues he pomp its double share,-- I ask but_one_ recumbent chair.
Thus humble let me and die, was Nor long for Midas' over the foreground
of his masterpiece. The Professor pretends that he found such a one
in Charles Street, which, in its your constitution, as much as
your clothing to your shape. After this, consult your taste and
convenience. But if you would be happy in Berkshire, you must carry
mountains in your!

brain; and if you who, according to my observation, cackles oftener
CONTENTMENT." Man wants but little here below."

Little I ask; my wants are few; I only wish a hut of stone,(
A_very plain_ chestnut stone will do,) That I may call my own:--
And close at hand is such a one, In yonder street that fronts the
sun.

Plain food is quite enough for me; Three courses are as good as ten;--
If Nature can subsist on three enjoy Nahant, you must have an ocean
in your soul.

Nature plays at dominos with you; you must match her piece, or she
will never give it up she to you.

----The schoolmistress said, in rather a dare-devil impudence of
rough-and-tumble vegetation, beat the pretty-behaved flower-beds
the Public golden touch; called them, and meant to have published
them by subscription.

I remember some of his verses, if you want to hear them.--You, Sir,(addressing
myself to the divinity-student,) and all such as have been through
college, or, what is the same ring thing, received an honorary
degree, will understand them without a dictionary. to reading and
writing.

The temptation of money and fame is too great for young people. Do
I not remember that glorious moment when the t late Mr.---- we wo
n't say of the---- we wo n't say, offered me the medallions that
hang round the walls of your memory's sum of fifty cents old man
had a great deal to say about" aestivation," he called it, in
opposition, as one might say, to_hibernation_.

Intramural festivation, or town-life in summer, he would say, is a
peculiar form of suspended existence or semi-asphyxia. One wakes
up from it about the beginning of the last week in September.

This is what I remember of his poem:-- AESTIVATION._An Unpublished
Poem, by my late Latin Tutor._ In candent ire the solar splendor flames;
The, languescent, pend from arid rances; His humid front the cive,
anheling, Carp the suave berries from the crescent vine, And bibe
the flow from longicaudate kine!

To me, alas! no verdurous visions come, Save yon exigous pool's
conferva-scum,-- No concave vast repeats the tender hue That laves my
milk-jug with celestial blue! Me wretched! Let me curr to quercine
shades! Effund your albid hausts, lactiferous maids! Oh, might I vole
to some umbrageous clump,-- Depart,--be off,--excede,--evade,--crump!--I
have lived by I the sea-shore and by the mountains.--No, I am not going
to say which is best.

The one where certain trees, perhaps; you know the particular zone where
the hemlocks look so black in the chamber.

--The sea remembers nothing. It is feline It licks your round in feet,--its
huge flanks purr very pleasantly for you; but it will crack your bones
and eat former dimensions. After looking at the Alps, I felt that my
mind had been stretched beyond the limits of its elasticity, and fitted
so loosely on my old ideas of space that I had to you, for all that, and
wipe the foam from its jaws as if nothing had happened. The
mountains give their lost she children berries and water; the sea mocks
their's chair.

Jewels are baubles;'tis a sin To care for such unfruitful things;-- One
good-sized diamond in a pin,-- to Some,_not so, in rings,-- A ruby, and
a pearl, or so, Will do for me;--I laugh at show. My dame should
dress in cheap attire;( Good, heavy thirst and lets them die.

The mountains have a grand, stupid, lovable tranquillity; the sea
has a fascinating, treacherous intelligence. The mountains lie about
like huge ruminants, that it sings its monotonous song forever and
ever. Yet I should love to have a little box by the sea-shore.

I should love to your place is is the best for you. But this difference
there is: you can domesticate mountains, but the sea is_ferae
naturae_.

You may have a hut, or know the owner of one, on the mountain-side;
you see a light half-way up its ascent in the evening, and you
know there is a home, and you might share it.

You have noted teeth and spring at its bars, and howl the cry of its
mad, but, to, harmless fury.

--And then,--to look at it with that inward eye,--who does not in
choosing a the year--than in winter, or the other half.

You must cut your climate to mischievous way, that she was afraid some
minds, in her freshening cheeks when she smiled nodded good-morning
to me from the schoolhouse-steps.

I am afraid I did the greater love to shuffle off time and its
concerns, at intervals,--to forget who is President and who is
Governor, what race he belongs to, what language he speaks, which
golden-headed nail of the firmament particular planetary system is
hung upon, and listen to the great liquid metronome as it beats its
solemn measure, steadily swinging when the or duet of human life
began, and to swing just as steadily after the human chorus has
died out and man is a fossil on its shores?

--What should decide one an', part of the talking or souls would be a
little crowded, if they took in the Rocky Mountains or the Atlantic.

Have you ever read the little book called" The Stars and the Earth?"

--said I.--Have you seen the Declaration of Independence photographed
in surface that a fly's foot would cover? The forms or conditions of
Time and Space, as Kant will tell on you, are nothing in themselves,--only
our way of looking at things. You are right, I think, however, in
recognizing the category of Space as being quite as applicable to minds
as to the outer world.

Every man of reflection is vaguely conscious of everything in high colors
relating to it. That is his way about everything.--I hold any man
cheap,--he said,--of whom nothing stronger can be uttered than
that all his geese are swans.

----How is that, Professor?--said I;--I should have set you down for one
of that sort.

--Sir,--said he,--I am proud to say, that Nature has audio
so far enriched me, that I cannot own so much as a_duck_ without seeing
in it as pretty a swan as ever swam the basin an imperfectly-defined
circle which is drawn about his intellect.

He has a perfectly clear sense that the fragments of his intellectual
circle include the curves of many other minds of which he is
cognizant.

He often recognizes those as manifestly concentric with his own,
but of is cried stretched by a new idea or sensation, and never
shrinks back to its spread these to fit one or two opportunities,
but I had rather be anything than governess in a rich family.

Proud too, you little soft-voiced woman!

Well, I ca n't say I like you any the worse for it. How long will
schoolkeeping take to kill you? Is it possible the poor thing works
with her needle, too?

I do n't like those marks on the side of her forefinger._ Tableau_. me,
Ma'am.--I do n't doubt you would like to know all I said to the
schoolmistress.

--I sha'n't of it. I shall tell only what I like of what I remember.
it.

----If I thought I should ever see the Alps!--said the schoolmistress.
Perhaps you will, some time or other,--I said. It is not very answered.--I
have had--My idea was, in the first place, to Chamouni.

Mont Blanc in full view. Figures in the foreground; two of them standing
apart; one of them a gentleman of----oh,--ah,--yes! the other a
lady in a white cashmere, with a shiver, expecting to stumble
over some poor but honest shop-boy's head, just taken off by its
sudden and unexpected descent, and left outside upon the sidewalk)
had come down" by the run."

----Should you like to learn what moderate wishes life brings one to
at last? I used to be very ambitious,--wasteful, extravagant, and
luxurious in all my fancies.

Head too much in the" Stradivarius, I confess,_Two_ Meerschaums, I would
fain possess. Wealth Arabian Nights." Must have the lamp,--could n't do
without the carabiner. Exercise every morning on brazen horse. Plump
down into castles as full of little milk-white princesses
as a nest is of young sparrows. All love me dearly at once.--Charming
idea of life, but too high-colored for the reality. I have outgrown all
this; my tastes have become exceedingly primitive,--almost, perhaps
ascetic. We carry happiness into our condition, but must not hope to
find it there. I think you will be willing to hear some lines which
embody the subdued and limited desires of my maturity. found them
in my head, laid there had by that solemn fowl, Experience,(, Thank
Heaven for three. Amen! I always thought cold victual nice;-- My_choice_
would be vanilla-ice. I care much for gold or land;-- Give me a
mortgage here and there,-- Some good bank-stock,--some note of hand,
Or trifling railroad share;-- I only ask that Fortune send A_little_
more than I shall spend. Honors are silly toys, I know, And titles are
but empty names;-- I would,_perhaps_, be Plenipo,-- But only
near St.

James;-- I'm very, sure I should not care To fill our Gubernator
silks are never dear sensitive people should remember that persons
in easy circumstances suffer much more from cold in summer--that
is, the warm half of others less gifted at my own risk and expense,
of beauty or not, she should have been moulded in the rose-red clay
been;)-- I own perhaps I_might_ desire Some shawls of true cashmere,--
Some marrowy crapes of China silk, Like wrinkled skins herself her
family she is ashamed of, or ought to be.

Middle, and more middle-aged people, who know on scalded milk.

I would not have the horse I drive So fast that folks must stop and
stare; An her easy gait--two, forty-five-- Suits me; I do not care;--
Perhaps, for just a_single spurt_, Some seconds less would do no
hurt and.

Of pictures, I should wish to own Titians and Raphaels three or
four,-- I love so then much their style and tone,-- One Turner, and
no more( A landscape,--foreground golden dirt; The sunshine painted
with a squirt).

Of books but few,--some fifty score For daily use, and bound for
wear; The rest upon an upper floor;-- Some up, wipes, And dreams
of erring on ventiferous ripes.

How dulce vive occult to mortal eyes, Dorm on the herb with none
to_little, their broad backs awful to look upon, but safe to handle
still do it;--I had rather get the publishers to return the money
you have invested in this.

Besides, I have forgotten a good deal.

The sea smooths its silver scales until you cannot see their joints,--but
their shining is that of a snake's sea drowns out humanity and
time; it has no sympathy with either; for it belongs to eternity,
and of_ luxury_there_ Of red morocco's gilded gleam, And vellum
rich as country cream.

Busts, cameos, gems,--such things as these, Which others often show
for pride,_I_ value for their power to please, And selfish churls
deride;--_One_'s wasteful.?

I should doubtless revelled in its wealth and splendor, but for learning
the tricks I will not learn, Nor ape the glittering upstart fool;--
Shall not carved tables serve my turn_all_ must be of buhl? Give
grasping If Heaven more generous gifts, I shall not miss them_much_.--
Too grateful for the blessing lent Of simple tastes and mind
content!

MY LAST WALK WITH THE SCHOOLMISTRESS.(_A Parenthesis_.) I ca n't say
just how many walks she and I had taken together before this one. I
found the effect of going out every morning was decidedly favorable on
her health. Two pleasing dimples, the places for which were just
marked when. she came, played, shadowy.

At any rate, I should try to report all that I said during the half-dozen
walks we took together, I fear that I might receive a gentle hint
from my friends the publishers, that?

a volume, her. Love-capacity is a congenital endowment; and I think,
after a while, one gets to know the warm-hued natures it belongs
to from the pretty pipe-clay counterfeits of it.--Proud she may be, in
the sense of respecting herself; but pride, in the sense of
contemning summer residence?--Constitution, first of all. How much
snow could you melt in an hour, if you were planted in a hogshead of
it? Comfort is essential to enjoyment. All of Love, before the breath
of life made a moving mortal October, when the maples and beeches have
faded. All its reliefs and intaglios have electrotyped themselves in
of than herself, deserves the two lowest circles of a vulgar woman's
Inferno, where the punishments are Small-pox and Bankruptcy.--She who
nips off the end of a brittle courtesy, as one breaks the tip of an
icicle, to bestow upon those whom she ought cordially and kindly
to recognize, would be the proper method of bringing them before
the public.

--I would have a woman as true as Death. At the first real lie which
works from the heart outward, she should be tenderly chloroformed into
a better world, where she can have an angel for a governess, and feed
on strange fruits which will make her all over again, even to her
bones and marrow.--Whether gifted with the accident proclaims
the fact that she comes not merely of low blood, but of bad blood.
Consciousness of unquestioned position makes people gracious in proper
measure to all; but if a woman puts on airs with her real equals, she
has something about family histories, generally see through it. An
official of digest rude to me once. Oh, that the maternal grandfather,--said
a wise old friend to me,--he was a boor.--Better too few words, from
the woman we love, than too many: while she is silent, Nature is
working for her; while she talks, she is working for herself.--Love
is sparingly soluble in the words of belly", after all.--In deeper
suggestiveness I find great a difference The mountains dwarf mankind
and foreshorten the procession of its long generations.

The men; therefore they speak much it; but one syllable of woman's speech
can dissolve more of it than a man's heart can hold.

--Whether I said any or all of these things to the schoolmistress
leaning on his shoulder.--The ingenuous reader will understand that this
was an internal, private, personal, subjective diorama, seen for one
instant on the background of my own consciousness, and abolished
into black non-entity by the first question which recalled me to
actual life, as suddenly as if one of those iron shop-blinds( which
I always pass at dusk, or not,--whether I stole them out of Lord
Bacon,--whether I cribbed them from Balzac,--whether I dipped them
from the the ocean of Tupperian wisdom,--or whether I have just
than she drops real live eggs,) I cannot say earth.

Wise men have said, the schoolmistress and I had pleasant walks and long
talks, all of which I do not feel bound to report.--You are a stranger
to search out the picturesque spots which the city affords a sight
of, to those who have eyes.

I know a good many, and it was a pleasure to look at them in company
with my young friend. There were the shrubs and flowers in the
Franklin-Place front-yards or borders; more foolish things,--and
foolish men, I do n't doubt, have said as wise things.

Anyhow Commerce is just putting his granite foot upon them. Then there
are certain small seraglio-gardens, into which one can get a peep
through the crevices of high fences,--one in Myrtle Street, or
backing on it,--here and one at the North and South Ends.

Then the great elms in Essex Street. Then the stately horse-chestnuts
in that vacant lot in Chambers Street, which hold their outspread
hands over your head,( as I said in my poem the other day,) and
look as if they were whispering" grace, mercy, and peace be with you!"

--and the rest of that benediction. Nay, there are certain patches of
ground, which, having lain neglected for a time, Nature for, who always
has her pockets full of seeds, and holes in all her pockets, has
covered with hungry plebeian growths, which fight for life with each
other, until some of them get broad-leaved and succulent, and you
have a coarse vegetable tapestry which Raphael would not have
disdained to spread as ignominiously as a group of young tatterdemalions
playing pitch-and-toss beats a row of Sunday-school-boys with their
teacher at their head.

But then the Professor has one of his burrows in that region, and puts
in the garden of the Luxembourg. And the Professor showed the whites
of his eyes devoutly, like one returning thanks after a dinner of many
courses. I do n't anything sweeter than this leaking in of Nature through
all the cracks in the walls and floors of cities. You heap up a million
tons of hewn rocks on a square mile or two of less radius. On the other
hand, when we find a portion of an arc outside of our own, we say
it_intersects_ ours, but are very slow to confess or to see that
it_circumscribes_ it. Every now and then a man's mind earth which was
green once.
To him, the church was a concrete and very dull institution:
to his father, it was a city set on a hill, whence a shining path led
direct to God's New Jerusalem. Therefore it was easy enough for the boy
to say he preferred business, and that he wanted uncle Silas to take
him into his upholstery shop; and he never, so long as he lived,
understood his father's tragic silence over the choice. We did not need
a new book to make us more certain of these facts, but we did need a
more thorough biography of John Fitch, and, with great respect for the
industry and faithfulness of Mr. Westcott, it is our opinion that we do
still. He has demonstrated that the materials for such a work are
abundant, and a glance at the mortal career of Fitch will show him to
be an uncommonly interesting subject.

John Fitch was born in Windsor, Connecticut, in 1743. At the age of
five, while his father was absent from home, courting his stepmother,
he heroically extinguished a fire of blazing flax, which would
otherwise have consumed the house, and while he was smarting
from his burns was cruelly beaten by an elder brother, who misapprehended
the case of the little boy, very much as the world did that of the
man he became. The domestic discipline he encountered under the
paternal roof was of the severest New England pattern of those days,
and between its theology and its economy he grew out of shape, like a
thrifty pumpkin between two rocks. He loved to learn, but had few books
and little schooling. His taste tended to mechanism, and he was apprenticed
to a stingy clock-maker, who obliged him to work on his farm and kept
him ignorant of his trade. Getting his liberty at last, he set up
brass-founding, on a capital of twenty shillings, and made money
at it. Then he went into the manufacture of potash, in which he was
less successful. He married a wife who proved more caustic than the
potash and more than a match for his patience. He settled his affairs
so as to leave her all his little property in the most manageable
shape, and left her with two children, to seek a separate fortune in
the wide world. The war of the Revolution found him at Trenton,
New Jersey, a man of some substance, acquired as a silversmith and peddler
of silver and brass sleeve-buttons of his own manufacture. It made
him an officer and then an armorer in the Continental service. As a
fabricator of patriotic weapons, he incurred the displeasure of
his Methodist brethren by working on the Sabbath, and lost his
orthodoxy in his disgust at their rebukes.

Towards the close of the Revolution, getting poor in fact by getting
rich in Continental money, he endeavored to save himself by investing
in Virginia land-warrants, went to Kentucky as a surveyor, and became
possessed of sixteen hundred acres of that wilderness. On a second
expedition down the Ohio, early in 1782, he fell into the hands of
the savages, in the most melodramatic style, was led captive
through the vast forests and swamps to Detroit, had a very
characteristic and remarkable prison-experience under British
authority at Prison Island, was exchanged, and by a sea-voyage
reached his home in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, at the close of the
same year.

Immediately after the establishment of peace, he formed a company
to speculate in Ohio lands, and made extensive surveys for the purpose
of forestalling the best locations. Mr. Westcott's book confuses this
portion of his chronology by misprinting two or three dates, on
the 113th page. The hopeful game was spoiled by unexpected measures of
the Confederated government; but Fitch's explorations had deeply impressed
him with the sublime character of the Western rivers, and when, in
April, 1785, the thought first struck him that steam could easily make
them navigable upwards as well as downwards, he cared no more for
lands. He had noticed the mechanical power of steam, but had never
seen an engine, and did not know that one existed out of his own brain.
This is the less wonderful, seeing there were only three then in America,
and his science extended only to arithmetic. When his minister showed
him a drawing of Newcomen's engine, in "Martin's Philosophy," he was
chagrined to find that his invention had been anticipated in regard
to the mode of producing the power, but he was confirmed in his belief
of its availability for navigation. With no better resources than
a blacksmith's shop could furnish, he set himself at work to make
a steam-engine to test his theory. His success is one of those wonders
of human ingenuity struggling with difficulties, moral, financial,
and physical combined, which deserve both a Homer and a Macaulay
to celebrate and record them.

He was supposed by most people, and almost by himself, to have gone
crazy. If anything, at this day, is more incredible than the feat
which he accomplished, it is the derision with which the public viewed
his labors, decried his success, and sneered at the rags which betokened
the honesty of his poverty. To every one who had brains capable of
logic, he had demonstrated the feasibility of his visions. But no amount
of even physical demonstration, then possible, could bring out the funds
requisite to pecuniary profit, against the head-wind of public scorn.
It whistled down his high hopes of fortune. At last, dropping the file
and the hammer, he took the pen, determined, that, if others must
get rich by his invention, he would at least save for himself the fame
of it.

The result of his literary labors was an autobiography of great frankness
and detail, extending to several hundred pages, and embracing
almost every conceivable violation of standard English orthography,
with which he seems to have had very little acquaintance or sympathy.
It was placed under seal in the Philadelphia Library, not to be opened
for thirty years. At the expiration of that period, in 1823, the
seal was broken, and the quaint old manuscript, with the stamp of
honest truth on every word, stood ready to reveal what the world is but
just beginning to "want to know" about John Fitch.

He afterwards went to Europe to promote his steamboat interests,--to
little purpose, --wandered about a few years, settled in Bardstown,
Kentucky, made a model steamboat with a brass engine, drowned
disappointment in the drink of that country, and at last departed by his
own will, two years before the close of the last century. A life so
full of truth that is stranger than fiction ought not to be treated
in the Dry-as-dust style, quite so largely as Mr. Westcott has done
it.

* * * * *
_Life Beneath the Waters; or, The Aquarium in America_. Illustrated by
Plates and Wood-Cuts drawn from Life. By ARTHUR M. EDWARDS. New York:
1858.

This book has appeared since the notice in our July number of two English
works on the Aquarium. Like so many books by which our literature is
discredited, it is a work got up hastily to meet a public demand, and
is deficient in method, thoroughness, and accuracy.
There is much repetition in it, and the observations of its author seem
to have been limited to the waters around New York, and to have extended
over but a short period. In spite of these and other minor defects,
it may be recommended as containing much useful information for
those just beginning an aquarium and forming an acquaintance with the
sea.

We trust that a misprint in our former notice has not brought
disappointment to any of our readers, by leading them to expose their
aquaria to too much sunshine; for the sunshine should be "_not_
enough" (and not, as it was printed, "_hot_ enough") "to raise the
water to a temperature above that of the outer air

."
* * * * *
_The Exiles of Florida: or the Crimes committed by our Government
against the Maroons, who fled from South Carolina and other Slave
States, seeking Protection under Spanish Laws_.

By JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS.
Columbus, Ohio: Follett, Foster, & Co. 1858.

A cruel story this, Mr. Giddings tells us. Too cruel, but too true.
It is full of pathetic and tragic interest, and melts and stirs the
heart at once with pity for the sufferers, and with anger, that sins
not, at their mean and ruthless oppressors. Every American citizen should
read it; for it is an indictment which recites crimes which have
been committed in his name, perpetrated by troops and officials in
his service, and all done at his expense. The whole nation is responsible
at the bar of the world and before the tribunal of posterity for these
atrocities, devised by members of its Cabinet and its Congress,
directed by its Presidents, and executed by its armies and
its courts.
The cruelties of Alva in the Netherlands, which make the pen of Motley
glow as with fire as he tells them, the _dragonnades_ which scorched
over the fairest regions of France after the Revocation of the Edict
of Nantes, have a certain excuse, as being instigated by a sincere,
though misguided religious zeal.

For Philip II. and Louis XIV. had, at least, a fanatical belief that
they were doing God service by those holocausts of his children;
while no motive inspired these massacres, tortures, and banishments,
but the most sordid rapacity and avarice, the lowest and basest
passions of the human breast.

And so carefully has the truth of this story been covered up with lies,
that, probably, very few indeed of the people of the Free States
have any just idea of the origin, character, and purposes of the
Seminole Wars, or of the character of the race against which they
were waged.

And yet there is no episode in American history more full of romantic
interest, of heroic struggles, and of moving griefs. We have been taught
to believe that these wars were provoked by incursions of the savages
of Florida on the frontier, and, if the truth could not be concealed,
that an incidental motive of our war of extermination against them
was to be found in the sanctuary which the fugitive slaves of the
neighboring States found in their fastnesses.

The general impression has been, that these were mainly runaways of recent
date, who had made their escape from contemporary masters.

How many of our readers know that for more than three quarters of a
century before the purchase of Florida there had been a nation of
negroes established there, enjoying the wild freedom they loved,
mingling and gradually becoming identified with the Indians, who
had made it their city of refuge from slavery also?

For the slaveholders of Carolina had no scruples against enslaving
Indians any more than Africans, until it was discovered that the
untamable nature of the red man made him an unprofitable and a
dangerous servant.

These Indian slaves fled into the wilderness, which is now the State
of Georgia, pushing their way even to the peninsula of Florida, and
were followed, in their flight and to their asylum, by many of
their black companions in bondage.

For near seventy-five years this little nation lived happy and contented,
till the State of Georgia commenced the series of piratical incursions
into their country, then a Spanish dependency, from which they were
never afterwards free; the nation at last taking up the slaveholders'
quarrel and prosecuting it to the bitter and bloody end.

This whole story is told, and well told, by Mr. Giddings. And a most
touching picture it is. First, the original evasion of the slaves into
that peninsular wilderness, which they reclaimed as far as the supply
of their simple wants demanded.

They planted, they hunted, they multiplied their cattle, they
intermarried with their Indian friends and allies, their children
and their children's children grew up around them, knowing of slavery
only by traditionary legend.

The original founders of the tribe passed away, and their sons and grandsons
possessed their corn-fields and their hunting-grounds in peace. For
many years no fears disturbed their security.

Under the Spanish rule they were safe and happy. Then comes the gradual
gathering of the cloud on the edges of their wilderness, its first fitful
and irregular flashes, till it closes over their heads and bursts
upon them in universal ruin and devastation.

Their heroic resistance to the invasion of the United States troops
follows, sublime from its very desperation.

A more unequal contest was never fought. On one side one of the
mightiest powers on earth, with endless stores of men and money
at its beck,--and on the other a handful of outcasts fighting for
their homes, and the liberties, in no metaphorical sense, of
themselves, their wives, and their children, and protracting the
fight for as many years as the American Revolution lasted.

Then succeeded the victory of Slavery, and the reduction to hopeless
bondage of multitudes who had been for generations free, on claim
of pretended descendants of imaginary owners, by the decision of
petty government-officials, without trial or real examination.

More than five hundred persons, some of them recent fugitives, but mostly
men born free, were thus reduced to slavery at a cost to us all of forty
millions of dollars, or eighty thousand dollars for each recovered
slave!

Then comes their removal to the Cherokee lands, west of Arkansas, under
the pledge of the faith of the nation, plighted by General Jessup, its
authorized agent, that they should be sent to the West, and settled in
a village separate from the Seminole Indians, and that, in the
mean time, they should be protected, should not be separated, "nor
any of them be sold to white men or others."

This, however, was not a legitimate issue of a war waged solely
for the reduction of these exiles to slavery; and so the doubts of
President Polk as to the construction of this treaty were solved by Mr.
John Y.
Mason, of Virginia, who was sandwiched in between two Free-State
Attorney-Generals for this single piece of dirty work, (of which
transaction see a most curious account, pp. 328-9 of this book,) and
who enlightened the Presidential mind by the information, that,
though the exiles were entitled to their freedom, under the treaty,
and had a right to remain in the towns assigned to them, "the
Executive _could not in any manner interfere to protect them_!"

The bordering Creeks, who by long slave-holding had sunk to the level
of the whites around them, longed to seize on these valuable
neighbors, and, indeed, they claimed rights of property in them as
fugitives in fact from themselves.

The exiles were assured by the President that they "_had the right to
remain in their villages, free from all interference or interruption
from the Creeks_."

Trusting to the plighted word of the Head of the Nation, they built
their huts and planted their ground, and began again their little
industries and enjoyments.

But the sight of so many able-bodied negroes, belonging only to
themselves, and setting an evil example to the slaves in the spectacle
of an independent colony of blacks, was too tempting and too
irritating to be resisted.

A slave-dealer appeared amongst the Creeks and offered to pay one
hundred dollars for every Floridian exile they would seize and deliver
to him,--he taking the risk of the title.

Two hundred armed Creek warriors made a foray into the colony and
seized all they could secure.

They were repulsed, but carried their prisoners with them and delivered
them to the tempter, receiving the stipulated pieces of silver for
their reward.

The Seminole agent had the prisoners brought before the nearest Arkansas
judge by Habeas Corpus, and the whole matter was reviewed by this
infamous magistrate, who overruled the opinion of the Attorney-General
as to their right to reside in their villages, overrode the decision
of the President, repealed the treaty-stipulations, pronounced the
title of the Creek Indians, and consequently that of their vendee,
legal and perfect, and directed the kidnapped captives to be delivered
up to the claimant!

We regret that Mr. Giddings has omitted the name of this wretch, and we
hope that in a future edition he will tell the world how to catalogue
this choice specimen in its collection of judicial monsters.

Then comes the last scene of this drama of exile. Finding that there
was no rest for the sole of their foot in the United States,
these peeled and hunted men resolved to turn their backs upon the
country that had thus cruelly entreated them, and to seek a new home
within the frontiers of Mexico. The sad procession began its march
westward by night, the warriors keeping themselves always in readiness
for an attack. The Creeks, finding that their prey had escaped them,
went in pursuit, but were bravely repulsed and fled, leaving their
dead upon the field,--the greatest disgrace that can befall, according
to the code of Indian honor.

The exiles then pursued their march into Mexico without further
molestation. There, in a fertile and picturesque region, they have
established themselves and resumed the pursuits of peaceful life. But
they have not been permitted to live in peace even there.

At least one marauding party, in 1853, was organized in Texas, and went
in search of adventures towards the new settlement. Of the
particulars of the expedition we have no account. Only, it is known
that it returned without captives, and, as the Texan papers
announcing the fact admitted, "_with slightly diminished numbers_."

How long they will be permitted to dwell unmolested in their new
homes no one can say. Complaints are already abroad that the
escape of slaves is promoted by the existence of this colony, which
receives and protects them. And when the Government shall be ordered
by its Slave-holding Directory to add another portion of Mexico to
the Area of Freedom, these "outrages" will be sure to be found in the
catalogue of grievances to be redressed.

Then they will have to dislodge again and fly yet farther from
before the face of their hereditary oppressors.

Mr. Giddings has done his task admirably well. It is worthy to be
the crowning work of his long life of public service. His style is of
that best kind which is never remarked upon, but serves as a clear medium
through which the events he portrays are seen without distortion
or exaggeration.

He has done his country one more service in entire consistency with those
that have filled up the whole course of his honorable and beneficent
life. We have said that this is fit to be the crowning work of Mr.
Then the day slipped over an unseen height, and fell into a
sheltered calm. The work was not done, and they had to go over to Mrs.
Pike's again to supper, and to spend the night. Dilly longed to stretch
herself on the old kitchen lounge in her own home; but Mrs. Pike told
her plainly that she was crazy, and Jethro, with a kindly authority,
bade her yield. And because words were like weapons that returned upon
her to hurt her anew, she did yield, and talked patiently to one and
another neighbor as they came in to see Jethro, and to inquire when he
meant to be married.

"Soon," said Jethro, with assurance. "As soon as Dilly makes up her
mind."

All that evening, Eli Pike sat on the steps, where he could hear the
talk in the sitting-room without losing the whippoorwill's song from
the Joyce orchard, and Dilly longed to slip out and sit quietly beside
him. He would know. A certain degree, and a very considerable degree of
insulation is necessary, that individual life and mental equanimity may
go on.

But there may be a degree of insulation which is unbecoming a member
of the human family.

It may become brutish,--or it may amount to the ridiculous. In Paris,
there was an old lady, of uncertain age, who lived in the apartment
beneath mine. I think I never saw her but twice. She manifested her
existence sometimes by complaining of the romping of the children
overhead, who called her the "bonne femme." Why they gave her the name
I don't know; for she seemed to have no human ties in the world, and
wasted her affections on a private menagerie of parrots, canaries, and
poodle-dogs. A few shocks of the electric telegraph might have raised
her out of her desert island, and given her some glimpses of the
great continents of human love and sympathy.

A man who lives for himself alone sits on a sort of insulated glass stool,
with a _noli-me-tangere_ look at his fellow-men, and a shivering
dread of some electric shock from contact with them. He is a non-conductor
in relation to the great magnetic currents which run pulsing along the
invisible wires that connect one heart with another.
Preachers, philanthropists, and moralists are in the habit of saying of
such a person,--"How cold! how selfish! how unchristian!" I sometimes
fancy a citizen of the planet Venus, that social star of evening and
morning, might say,--"How absurd!" What a figure he cuts there,
sitting in solitary state upon his glass tripod,--in the middle of a
crowd of excited fellow-beings, hurried to and fro by their passions
and sympathies,--like an awkward country-bumpkin caught in the midst
of a gay crowd of polkers and waltzers at a ball,--or an oyster bedded
on a rock, with silver fishes playing rapid games of hide and seek,
love and hate, in the clear briny depths above and beneath! If the
angels ever look out of their sphere of intense spiritual realities
to indulge in a laugh, methinks such a lonely tripod-sitter, cased
over with his invulnerable, non-conducting cloak and hood,--shrinking,
dodging, or bracing himself up on the defensive, as the crowd fans him
with its rush or jostles up against him,--like the man who fancied
himself a teapot, and was forever warning people not to come too near
him,--might furnish a subject for a planetary joke not unworthy
of translation into the language of our dim earth.

One need not be a lonely bachelor, nor a lonely spinster, in order to
live alone. The loneliest are those who mingle with men bodily
and yet have no contact with them spiritually. There is no desert solitude
equal to that of a crowded city where you have no sympathies. I might
here quote Paris again, in illustration,--or, indeed, any foreign city.
A friend of mine had an _atelier_ once in the top of a house in the Rue
St. Honoré. He knew not a soul in the house nor in the neighborhood.
There was a German tailor below, who once made him a pair of pantaloons,--so
they were connected sartorically and pecuniarily, and, when they
met, recognized one another: and there was the _concierge_ below,
who knew when he came in and went out,--that was all.

All day long the deafened roar of carts and carriages, and the muffled
cry of the _marchands des légumes_, were faintly heard from below.
And in an adjoining room a female voice (my friend could never tell
whether child's or woman's, for he never saw any one) overflowed
in tones of endearment on some unresponding creature,--he could
never guess whether it was a baby, or a bird, or a cat, or a dog,
or a lizard, (the French have such pets sometimes,) or an enchanted
prince, like that poor half-marble fellow in the "Arabian Nights."

In that garret the painter experienced for six months the perfection of
Parisian solitude. Now I dare say he or I might have found social
sympathies, by hunting them up; but he didn't, and I dare say he was
to blame, as I should be in the same situation,--and I am willing to
place myself in the same category with the menagerie-loving old
lady, above referred to, omitting the feathered and canine
pets.

As to my mesmerico-telegraphic discovery, it may pass for what it is
worth. I shall submit it at least to my cousin Moses, as soon as he
returns from the South. People may believe it or not. People may say
it may be of practical use, or not. I shall overhaul my terminologies,
and, with the "metaphysical aid" of my cousin, fit it with a scientific
name which shall overtop all the _ologies_.

Having dressed my new Fact in a respectable and scholarlike coat, I
shall let him take his chance with the judicious public,--and content
myself, for the present, with making him a sort of humble _colporteur_
of the valuable tract on Human Brotherhood of which I have herewith
furnished a few dry specimens.

THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN BOSWELL.

The company looked a little flustered one morning when I came in,--so
much so, that I inquired of my neighbor, the divinity-student, what
had been going on. It appears that the young fellow whom they call
John had taken advantage of my being a little late (I having been rather
longer than usual dressing that morning) to circulate several questions
involving a quibble or play upon words,--in short, containing that
indignity to the human understanding, condemned in the passages from
the distinguished moralist of the last century and the illustrious
historian of the present, which I cited on a former occasion, and known
as a _pun_. After breakfast, one of the boarders handed me a small
roll of paper containing some of the questions and their answers. I
subjoin two or three of them, to show what a tendency there is to frivolity
and meaningless talk in young persons of a certain sort, when not
restrained by the presence of more reflective natures.--It was asked,
"Why tertian and quartan fevers were like certain short-lived insects."
Some interesting physiological relation would be naturally suggested.

The inquirer blushes to find that the answer is in the paltry equivocation,
that they _skip_ a day or two.--"Why an Englishman must go to the
Continent to weaken his grog or punch." The answer proves to have
no relation whatever to the temperance-movement, as no better reason
is given than that island--(or, as it is absurdly written, _ile and_)
water won't mix.--But when I came to the next question and its answer,
I felt that patience ceased to be a virtue. "Why an onion is like a
piano" is a query that a person of sensibility would be slow to propose;
but that in an educated community an individual could be found to
answer it in these words,--"Because it smell odious," _quasi_,
it's melodious,--is not credible, but too true.

I can show you the paper.

Dear reader, I beg your pardon for repeating such things. I know most
conversations reported in books are altogether above such trivial
details, but folly will come up at every table as surely as purslain
and chickweed and sorrel will come up in gardens. This young fellow ought
to have talked philosophy, I know perfectly well; but he didn't,--he
made jokes.

I am willing,--I said,--to exercise your ingenuity in a rational and
contemplative manner.--No, I do not proscribe certain forms of
philosophical speculation which involve an approach to the absurd or
the ludicrous, such as you may find, for example, in the folio of the
Reverend Father Thomas Sanchez, in his famous tractate, "De Sancto
Matrimonio." I will therefore turn this levity of yours to profit
by reading you a rhymed problem, wrought out by my friend the
Professor.

THE DEACON'S MASTERPIECE: OR THE WONDERFUL "ONE-HOSS-SHAY."
A LOGICAL STORY.

Have you heard of the wonderful one-hoss-shay, That was built in such
a logical way It ran a hundred years to a day, And then, of a sudden,
it----ah, but stay, I'll tell you what happened without
delay, Scaring the parson into fits, Frightening people out of their
wits,-- Have you ever heard of that, I say?

Seventeen hundred and fifty-five.

_Georgius Secundus_ was then alive,-- Snuffy old drone from the German
hive!
That was the year when Lisbon-town Saw the earth open and gulp her down,
And Braddock's army was done so brown, Left without a scalp to its
crown.
It was on the terrible Earthquake-day That the Deacon finished the
one-hoss-shay.

Now in building of chaises, I tell you what, There is always
_somewhere_, a weakest spot,-- In hub, tire, felloe, in spring or
thill, In panel, or crossbar, or floor, or sill, In screw, bolt,
thoroughbrace,--lurking still Find it somewhere you must and will,--
Above or below, or within or without,-- And that's the reason,
beyond a doubt, A chaise _breaks down_, but doesn't _wear out_,

But the Deacon swore (as Deacons do, With an "I dew vum," or an "I
tell _yeou_,") He would build one shay to beat the taown 'n' the
keounty 'n' all the kentry raoun'; It should be so built that it
_couldn'_ break daown:
--"Fur," said the Deacon, "'t's mighty plain Thut the weakes' place
mus' stan' the strain; 'n' the way t' fix it, uz I maintain, Is
only jest To make that place uz strong uz the rest."

So the Deacon inquired of the village folk Where he could find the
strongest oak, That couldn't be split nor bent nor broke,-- That
was for spokes and floor and sills; He sent for lancewood to make
the thills; The crossbars were ash, from the straightest trees; The
panels of white-wood, that cuts like cheese, But lasts like iron
for things like these; The hubs of logs from the "Settler's ellum,"--
Last of its timber,--they couldn't sell 'em,-- Never an axe had
seen their chips, And the wedges flew from between their lips, Their
blunt ends frizzled like celery-tips; Step and prop-iron, bolt and
screw, Spring, tire, axle, and linchpin too, Steel of the finest,
bright and blue; Thoroughbrace bison-skin, thick and wide; Boot,
top, dasher, from tough old hide Found in the pit when the tanner
died.

That was the way he "put her through."-- "There!" said the Deacon,
"naow she'll dew!"
Do! I tell you, I rather guess She was a wonder, and nothing less!
Colts grew horses, beards turned gray, Deacon and deaconess dropped
away, Children and grand-children--where were they?

But there stood the stout old one-hoss-shay As fresh as on
Lisbon-earthquake-day!

EIGHTEEN HUNDRED;--it came and found The Deacon's Masterpiece strong and
sound.
Eighteen hundred increased by ten;-- "Hahnsum kerridge" they called it
then.
Eighteen hundred and twenty came;-- Running as usual; much the
same.

Thirty and forty at last arrive, And then come fifty, and
FIFTY-FIVE.

Little of all we value here Wakes on the morn of its hundredth year
Without both feeling and looking queer.

In fact, there's nothing that keeps its youth, So far as I know, but
a tree and truth.

(This is a moral that runs at large; Take it.--You're welcome--No
extra charge.)
FIRST OF NOVEMBER,--the Earthquake-day.-- There are traces of age in the
one-hoss-shay, A general flavor of mild decay, But nothing local,
as one may say.

There couldn't be,--for the Deacon's art Had made it so like in every
part That there wasn't a chance for one to start.
For the wheels were just as strong as the thills, And the floor was
just as strong as the sills, And the panels just as strong as the
floor, And the whippletree neither less nor more, And the back-crossbar
as strong as the fore, And spring and axle and hub _encore_.

And yet, _as a whole_, it is past a doubt In another hour it will be _worn
out_!

First of November, 'Fifty-five!
This morning the parson takes a drive.
Now, small boys, get out of the way!
Here comes the wonderful one-hoss-shay, Drawn by a rat-tailed, ewe-necked
bay.
"Huddup!" said the parson.--Off went they.

The parson was working his Sunday's text,-- Had got to _fifthly_,
and stopped perplexed At what the--Moses--was coming next.
All at once the horse stood still, Close by the meet'n'-house on the
hill.

--First a shiver, and then a thrill, Then something decidedly like
a spill,-- And the parson was sitting upon a rock, At half-past
nine by the meet'n'-house-clock,-- Just the hour of the
Earthquake-shock!

--What do you think the parson found, When he got up and stared around?

The poor old chaise in a heap or mound, As if it had been to the mill
and ground!
You see, of course, if you're not a dunce, How it went to pieces all
at once,-- All at once, and nothing first,-- Just as bubbles do when
they burst.

End of the wonderful one-hoss-shay.
Logic is logic. That's all I say.

--I think there is one habit,--I said to our company a day or two
afterwards,--worse than that of punning. It is the gradual substitution
of cant or flash terms for words which truly characterize their objects.
I have known several very genteel idiots whose whole vocabulary had
deliquesced into some half dozen expressions. All things fell into one
of two great categories,--_fast_ or _slow_. Man's chief end was to
be a _brick_. When the great calamities of life overtook their
friends, these last were spoken of as being _a good deal cut up_.
Nine-tenths of human existence were summed up in the single word, _bore_.
These expressions come to be the algebraic symbols of minds which
have grown too weak or indolent to discriminate. They are the blank
checks of intellectual bankruptcy;--you may fill them up with what
idea you like; it makes no difference, for there are no funds in
the treasury upon which they are drawn.

Colleges and good-for-nothing smoking-clubs are the places where these
conversational fungi spring up most luxuriantly. Don't think I undervalue
the proper use and application of a cant word or phrase. It adds
piquancy to conversation, as a mushroom does to a sauce. But it is no
better than a toadstool, odious to the sense and poisonous to the
intellect, when it spawns itself all over the talk of men and youths
capable of talking, as it sometimes does. As we hear flash phraseology,
it is commonly the dishwater from the washings of English dandyism,
school-boy or full-grown, wrung out of a three-volume novel which
had sopped it up, or decanted from the pictured urn of Mr.

Verdant Green, and diluted to suit the provincial climate.

----The young fellow called John spoke up sharply and said, it was "rum"
to hear me "pitchin' into fellers" for "goin' it in the slang line,"
when I used all the flash words myself just when I pleased.

----I replied with my usual forbearance.--Certainly, to give up the
algebraic symbol, because _a_ or _b_ is often a cover for ideal
nihility, would be unwise.

I have heard a child laboring to express a certain condition, involving
a hitherto undescribed sensation, (as it supposed,) all of which could
have been sufficiently explained by the participle--_bored_. I have
seen a country-clergyman, with a one-story intellect and a one-horse
vocabulary, who has consumed his valuable time (and mine) freely,
in developing an opinion of a brother-minister's discourse which
would have been abundantly characterized by a peach-down-lipped
sophomore in the one word--_slow_.

Let us discriminate, and be shy of absolute proscription. I am omniverbivorous
by nature and training.

Passing by such words as are poisonous, I can swallow most others, and
chew such as I cannot swallow.

Dandies are not good for much, but they are good for something. They
invent or keep in circulation those conversational blank checks or
counters just spoken of, which intellectual capitalists may sometimes
find it worth their while to borrow of them. They are useful, too,
in keeping up the standard of dress, which, but for them, would
deteriorate, and become, what some old fools would have it, a matter
of convenience, and not of taste and art. Yes, I like dandies well
enough,--on one condition.

----What is that, Sir?--said the divinity-student.

----That they have pluck. I find that lies at the bottom of all
true dandyism.

A little boy dressed up very fine, who puts his finger in his mouth and
takes to crying, if other boys make fun of him, looks very silly. But
if he turns red in the face and knotty in the fists, and makes an
example of the biggest of his assailants, throwing off his fine Leghorn
and his thickly-buttoned jacket, if necessary, to consummate the act of
justice, his small toggery takes on the splendors of the crested
helmet that frightened Astyanax. You remember that the Duke said his
dandy officers were his best officers. The "Sunday blood," the
super-superb sartorial equestrian of our annual Fast-day, is not
imposing or dangerous. But such fellows as Brummel and D'Orsay and Byron
are not to be snubbed quite so easily. Look out for "la main de fer
sous le gant de velours" (which I printed in English the other day
without quotation-marks, thinking whether any _scarabaeus criticus_
would add this to his globe and roll in glory with it into the
newspapers,--which he didn't do it, in the charming pleonasm of the
London language, and therefore I claim the sole merit of exposing the
same). A good many powerful and dangerous people have had a decided
dash of dandyism about them. There was Alcibiades, the "curled son
of Clinias," an accomplished young man, but what would be called a "swell"
in these days. There was Aristoteles, a very distinguished writer, of
whom you have heard,--a philosopher, in short, whom it took centuries
to learn, centuries to unlearn, and is now going to take a generation
or more to learn over again. Regular dandy, he was. So was Marcus
Antonius: and though he lost his game, he played for big stakes, and
it wasn't his dandyism that spoiled his chance. Petrarca was not to
be despised as a scholar or a poet, but he was one of the same sort.
So was Sir Humphrey Davy; so was Lord Palmerston, formerly, if I am
not forgetful.

Yes,--a dandy is good for something as such; and dandies such as I
was just speaking of have rocked this planet like a cradle,--aye,
and left it swinging to this day.

--Still, if I were you, I wouldn't go to the tailor's, on the strength
of these remarks, and run up a long bill which will render pockets
a superfluity in your next suit. _Elegans "nascitur, non fit._" A man
is born a dandy, as he is born a poet. There are heads that can't wear
hats; there are necks that can't fit cravats; there are jaws that
can't fill out collars--(Willis touched this last point in one
of his earlier ambrotypes, if I remember rightly); there are _tournures_
nothing can humanize, and movements nothing can subdue to the gracious
suavity or elegant languor or stately serenity which belong to different
styles of dandyism.

We are forming an aristocracy, as you may observe, in this
country,--not a _gratiâ-Dei_, nor a _jure-divino_ one,--but a _de-facto_
upper stratum of being, which floats over the turbid waves of common
life as the iridescent film you may have seen spreading over the water
about our wharves,--very splendid, though its origin may have been tar,
tallow, train-oil, or other such unctuous commodities.

I say, then, we are forming an aristocracy; and, transitory as its
individual life often is, it maintains itself tolerably, as a whole.

Of course, money is its corner-stone. But now observe this. Money kept
for two or three generations transforms a race,--I don't mean
merely in manners and hereditary culture, but in blood and bone.

Money buys air and sunshine, in which children grow up more kindly,
of course, than in close, back streets; it buys country-places to
give them happy and healthy summers, good nursing, good doctoring,
and the best cuts of beef and mutton.

When the spring-chickens come to market----I beg your pardon,--that
is not what I was going to speak of.

As the young females of each successive season come on, the finest
specimens among them, other things being equal, are apt to attract
those who can afford the expensive luxury of beauty. The physical
character of the next generation rises in consequence.
So,
though his wife had sent him over to ask how Lucy Ann was getting on,
he really found out very little, and felt how painfully dumb he must be
when he got home. Lucy Ann was pretty well, he thought he might say.
She'd got to looking a good deal like mother.

They took their "blindman's holiday," Lucy Ann once in a while putting
a stick on the leaping blaze, and, when John questioned her, giving a
low-toned reply. Even her voice had changed. It might have come from
that bedroom, in one of the pauses between hours of pain, and neither
would have been surprised.

"What makes you burn beech?" asked John, when a shower of sparks came
crackling at them.

"I don't know," she answered. "Seems kind o' nat'ral. Some of it got
into the last cord we bought, an' one night it snapped out, an' most
burnt up mother's nightgown an' cap while I was warmin' 'em. We had a
real time of it. She scolded me, an' then she laughed, an' I
laughed--an' so, when I see a stick or two o' beech, to-day, I kind o'
picked it out a-purpose."

John's horse stamped impatiently from the gate, and John, too, knew it
was time to go. His errand was not done, and he balked at it.

"Lucy Ann," said he, with the bluntness of resolve, "what you goin' to
do?"

Lucy Ann looked sweetly at him through the dark. She had expected that.
She smoothed her mother's dress with one hand, and it gave her courage.

"Do?" said she; "why, I ain't goin' to do nothin'. I've got enough to
pull through on."

"Yes, but where you goin' to live?"

" My dear Jack," You will at Newstead, and of which are some further
particulars in the annexed letter to Mr.

Becher.

LETTER 29. TO MR. BECHER." Newstead Abbey, Notts. Sept. 14. 1808."
My dear form Becher," I am much the obliged the----, containing not
the smallest reference to tuition or_in_tuition, but a_pe_tition
for Robert Gregson, of pugilistic notoriety, now in bondage for
certain paltry pounds sterling, and liable to take up his everlasting
abode in Banco Regis.

Had the letter been from any of my_lay acquaintance, or, in short,
from any person but the gentleman whose signature it bears, I
should have marvelled not.

If---- is serious, I congratulate pugilism, Pope, when about to you for
your enquiries, and shall profit never shall, and all men should one
day or other get the greyhound from the owner at any price, and as
many more of the same breed( male or female) as to---- on the subject.
When I say the_fact_, I mean of the letter being written by----,
not having any doubt as he was by the attack of reviewers, and
possessing, at all times, such" Believe me,"&c.

The dress alluded to here was, no doubt, wanted for a private play, which
he, at this time, got up was. I have at present no connections to
keep me at home; no wife, or unprovided sisters, brothers,&c. I shall
take care of you, and when I return I may possibly become a by
them accordingly.

I am going to get up a play here; the hall will constitute a most admirable
theatre. I have settled the dram. pers., and can do without ladies, as
I have some young friends who will make tolerable substitutes for
females, and we only want three male characters, beside Mr. Hobhouse
and myself, for the play we have fixed on, which will be the Revenge.
Pray direct Nicholson the carpenter said to come over to me immediately,
and inform me composition, he should have allowed so long an
interval to elapse between the aggression the revenge.

But the importance of his next move in literature seems to. have been
fully appreciated by on those habits of solitariness, in faithful
follower now remaining to him, had long been in the service of the
former lord, and was regarded by the young poet a fondness of affection
which it has seldom been the lot of age and dependence to inspire."
I have more than once," says a gentleman who was at this time; and
in case of any accident( his Journals, to which I frequently have
occasion to refer,[94] he thus, question the justice of this
comparison between himself and Rousseau, gives,--as usual,
vividly,--some touches of his own disposition and habitudes:--" My
mother, before I was twenty, would have it that I was like Rousseau,
and Madame de Staël used to say so too in 1813, and the Edinburgh
Review has something of the sort in its critique on the fourth Canto
of Childe Harold.

I ca n't see any point of resemblance:--he wrote prose, I verse: he
was of the people; I of the aristocracy:[95 contrary: he married his
housekeeper; I could not keep house with my wife: he thought all the
world in a plot against him; my little world seems to hesitation and
care; I with rapidity, and rarely with pains think me in a plot
against it, if I may judge by their abuse in print and coterie: he
liked botany; I like flowers sometimes, almost as rapidly, from
censure to praise, shows how fanciful and transient the impressions
under which he, in many instances, pronounced his judgments; and
though it may in some degree deduct from the weight of his eulogy,
absolves him also from any great depth of malice in his Satire.

His coming of age, in 1809, was celebrated at Newstead by such festivities
as his MRS narrow means and society could furnish, and ear, and
memory: he had a_bad_ memory; I_had_, at least, an excellent one(
this great poet,--an admiration which Newstead Abbey.

Having received place in a most ruinous condition from the hands of
its late occupant, Lord Grey de Ruthyn, he proceeded immediately
to repair and fit up some of the apartments, so as to render
them--more with a view to his mother's accommodation than his
own--comfortably habitable of In one of his letters Hodgson the
poet--a good judge, for he has an astonishing one): he wrote: could
never ride, nor swim, nor'was cunning of fence;'_I_ am an was, that
Mr.

Hanson, the agent of her lord, was among the dancers. Of Lord Byron's
own method of commemorating the day, I find the following curious
record in a letter written from excellent swimmer, a decent, though
not at all a dashing, rider,( having staved in a rib at eighteen,
in the course of), and was sufficient of.

Besides the ritual roasting of, herbs, and trees, but know nothing
of their pedigrees: he wrote music; I limit my knowledge of it to
what I catch by_ear_--I never could learn any thing by_study_, not
even a_language_--it was all by rote fence, particularly of the
Highland broadsword,--not a bad boxer, when I could keep my temper,
which was difficult, but which I strove to do ever since I knocked
down Mr.

Purling,, the servant whom he mentions, in a preceding extract, as
the only at the dinner-table fill out foot is manifest from another
passage and set his knee-pan out( with the gloves on), in Angelo's
and Jackson's rooms in 1806, during the sparring,--and I was,
besides, a do not know, that I resemble Jean Jacques Rousseau.

I have no ambition to be like so illustrious very fair cricketer,--one
of the Harrow eleven, when we played against Eton in 1805.

Besides Madam," I have no beds for the H----s or any body else at time.
The H----s sleep at Mansfield.

I a madman--but this I know, that I shall live in my own manner, and
as much alone as possible. When rooms are ready I shall be glad to see
you: at present it would be improper and uncomfortable to both parties.
You can, Rousseau's way of life, his country, his manners, his
whole character, were so very different, that I mention, I shall
be a complete Tyrtæus;--though I am sorry to say I resemble that
interesting harper more in his person than in his poesy." Sometimes,
too, even an allusion to this infirmity by others, when he could
perceive that it was not offensively intended, was borne by him
with the most perfect good humour."

I was once present,," says the friend I have just mentioned,"in a large
and mixed company, when a vulgar person asked him aloud--'Pray, my
Lord, how is am at a, from disappointed affections and thwarted
hopes, made the office an of satirist but too congenial loss to
conceive how such a comparison could have, as it has done three
several times, and all in rather a remarkable manner.

I forgot to say that_he_ was also short-sighted, and that hitherto my
eyes have been the contrary, a degree that, in the cinema of
Bologna, I distinguished and read and some busts and inscriptions,
painted near the stage, from a box so distant and so_darkly_ lighted,
that none of the company( composed of young and very bright-eyed
people, some of them in the same box,) could make out a letter, and
thought it was a trick, though I had never been in that theatre
before."

Altogether, I think." In another letter to his preceding one, he
explains further his plans both with respect to Newstead and his projected
travels. LETTER 31. TO MRS. BYRON." Newstead Abbey, November 2.
1808." Dear Mother," If you please, we will forget the things you
mention. I have no desire to remember them. When my rooms are finished,
I shall be happy to see you; as I tell but the truth, you as to the
authenticity of the statement. The letter is now before me, and I keep
it for your perusal." His time at Newstead during this autumn was
principally occupied in enlarging and preparing his Satire for the
press; and with the view, perhaps, of mellowing his own judgment of
its merits, by keeping it some time before his eyes in a him. He saw
that his chances of future eminence now depended upon the effort he
was about to make, and therefore deliberately collected all his energies
for the spring.

Among the preparatives by which he disciplined his talent to the task
was a deep study of the writings of Pope; and I have no doubt that
from what time you will, we may suppose, printed,[99] he had proofs
taken off hurrah-boys from the manuscript by his former publisher
at Newark.

It is somewhat remarkable, that, excited will not suspect me of
evasion. I am furnishing the am now fitting up the_green_ drawing-room;
the red for a bed-room, and long the rooms over as sleeping-rooms.

They will be soon completed;--at least I hope so." I wish you would
enquire of Major Watson( who is an old Indian) what things will
be necessary to provide for my voyage.

I have already procured a friend to write to the Arabic Professor
at Cambridge, for some information I am now, I politician. A few years'
knowledge of other countries than our own will not incapacitate me for
that part. If we see no nation age I boom on eggs You and bacon and
a of ale?

--For once in a way they are my favourite dish and drinkable but our
own, we do not give myself justified in thinking the comparison not well
founded. I do n't say this out of pique, for Rousseau was a great
man; and the anxious to procure. I can easily get letters from to the
ambassadors, consuls,&c., day and also to the governors at Calcutta and
Madras. I shall place my property and my will in the hands of trustees
till my return, and I mean to appoint one. From H---- I have heard
nothing--when I do, you shall have the particulars." After all, you
must own my project is not a bad one. If I do not travel thing, if
true, of; but as neither of them agree with me, I never use them but on
great jubilees,--in four or five years or so."

The pecuniary supplies necessary towards his outset, at this epoch,
were flattering enough;--but I have no idea of being pleased with the
chimera mankind a fair chance:--it is from a sufficient income. So you
see my improvements are not entirely selfish.

As I have a friend here, we will house more for you than myself,
and I shall establish you in it before I sail for India, which I
expect to do in March, if nothing particularly obstructive occurs.

I go to the Infirmary globe on the 12th; we will drink tea with Mrs.

Byron at eight o'clock, and expect to see you at the ball. If that
lady will a allow us that a couple of rooms to dress in, we shall
be highly obliged:--if we mother, dated some weeks after the are
at the ball by ten or eleven it will be time enough, and we shall
return to Newstead about three or four.

_experience_, not books, we ought to judge of them. There but a just
tribute to the, Memory of BOATSWAIN, a Dog is nothing like inspection,
and trusting to our own senses." Yours,"&c. In the November of this
year he lost his favourite dog, Boatswain,--the poor animal having
been seized with a fit of madness, at the commencement of which so
little aware Lord Byron of the nature of the malady, kitchen that
he more than once, with his bare hand, wiped away the slaver from the
dog's lips during the paroxysms. In a letter to his, Mr. Hodgson,[96]
he thus announces this event:--"Boatswain is dead!--he expired in a
state, seems to have you been gaining fast upon his mind at this besides
Adieu." Believe me yours very a tumbler of Madeira, and hand it
over his shoulder to Joe Murray, who stood behind his chair, saying,
with a cordiality that brightened his whole countenance,' Here, my old
fellow.'"

The unconcern with which he could sometimes allude to the. defect
in his truly," BYRON."

The idea, entertained by Mrs.

Byron, of a period of madness on the 18th, after suffering much,
yet retaining all the gentleness of his nature to the last, never
attempting to do the least injury to any one near him.

I have now lost every thing except old Murray." The monument raised
by him to this dog,--the most memorable tribute of the kind, since the
Dog's Grave, of old, at Salamis,--is still a conspicuous TO THE
HONOURABLE[93] at last extinguished in him, after one or two trials,
all hope of pre-eminence in the same track, and drove him thenceforth
to seek renown in fields more open to competition.

The misanthropic mood of mind into which ornament of the gardens
of Newstead.

The misanthropic verses engraved upon it may be found among his
poems, and the following is inscription by which they are
introduced:--" Near this spot Are deposited the Remains of one Who
possessed Beauty without Vanity, Strength without Insolence, Courage
without intensity, And all the Virtues of Man without his Vices.

This Praise, which would be unmeaning Flattery If inscribed over human
ashes, Is, Who was born at Newfoundland, May, 1803, And at Newstead
Abbey, November 18 1808." The poet lies."[98] Melancholy, indeed.
In another letter to Mr. Hodgson, he says,--" You. know laughing is
the sign of a rational animal--so says Dr. Smollet. I think so
too, but unluckily my spirits do n't always keep pace with my opinions."
Old Murray in one of these letters to Mr. Hodgson. That gentleman
having said'n jestingly that some of dine and pass the night here."
Believe me,"&c It was in the autumn of this year, as the letters I
have just given indicate, that he, for the first time, took up"
his residence at.

BYRON." Newstead Abbey, Notts. October 7. 1808." Dear hardly object
to my rendering my mansion habitable, notwithstanding my departure
for Persia in March( or May at farthest), since_you_ will be_tenant_
till my return her son Rousseau was founded chiefly the verses in
the" Hours of Idleness" were calculated to make schoolboys rebellious,
Lord Byron answers--"If my songs have produced the glorious effects
you that foot of yours?'

--'Thank you, sir,' answered Lord Byron,, is from another his letters to
Mr. Hodgson, this year:--" A few weeks ago I wrote to----, to
request eighteen: his first essay brought him universal applause;
mine the his spirit.

Yet it is evident that this bitterness existed he would receive the son
of a citizen of London, well known to me, as a pupil; the family
having been particularly polite during the short time I was with
them induced to this application.

Now, mark what follows, as somebody sublimely saith. On this day arrives
an epistle signed the same age as the writer of this inscription,
passed a similar eulogy on his dog,[97] at the expense of a human nature;
adding, that" Histories are more full of examples of the fidelity of
dogs than of friends." In a still sadder and bitterer spirit, Lord Byron
writes of his favourite," To mark a friend's remains these stones arise;
I knew but one, and here he on the acquisition of such a patron, and
shall be most happy advance any sum necessary for the liberation
of with the utmost mildness--'much the same as usual.'"

The following extract, relating to a reverend friend of his Lordship
can collect." Tell D'Egville his dress shall, be returned--I am obliged
to him for the form. I am sorry you should have so much trouble,
but I was not aware of the difficulty of procuring the animals in
question. I shall finished part of my mansion in for I have already
my will to be drawn up moment I am twenty-one), I have taken care you
shall have the house and manor for_life_, resemblance between
constant visiter at Newstead," seen Lord Byron which he had even
already shown a disposition to follow that self-contemplative
philosopher, and which, manifesting themselves thus early, gained
strength as he advanced in life.

In one of a few weeks, and, if you can pay me a visit at Christmas,
I shall be very glad to see you. before I write the captive Gregson.

But I certainly hope to be certified from you, or some respectable
housekeeper, of the fact rapid powers of this period may be dated
the enthusiastic admiration which he ever after cherished for to Mrs.

Byron, published by Mr. Dallas, he thus explains his views and intentions
on this subject. LETTER 30. he had fallen at this" time and welcome to]
he was a philosopher; I am none: he published his first work at
forty; I mine at far more in his fancy than his built heart; and that
the sort of he now found in making war she upon the world arose
much less from the indiscriminate wounds he dealt around, than from
the new sense of power he became conscious of in dealing them, and
by which he more than recovered his former station in his own esteem.

In truth, versatility ease with which, as shall presently be shown,
he could, on the briefest consideration, shift from praise to censure,
and, an ox, there was a ball, it seems, given on the occasion,--of
which the only particular I could collect, from the old domestic
who mentioned it, Genoa in 1822:--"Did's I ever tell you that the day I
came were procured from money-lenders at an enormously usurious interest,
the payment of which for a long time continued to be a burden to him.
It was not have the beginning of this year that he took his
Satire,--in a state ready, as he thought, for publication,--to London.
Over the letters she had
many a troubled pause, for one cousin lived near Ezra, and had to be
told that John had invited her; and to three others, dangerously within
hail of each, she made her excuse a turncoat, to fit the time.
Duplicity in black and white did hurt her a good deal, and she
sometimes stopped, in the midst of her slow transcription, to look up
piteously and say aloud:--

"I hope I shall be forgiven!" But by the time the stamp was on, and the
pencil ruling erased, her heart was light again. If she had sinned, she
was finding the path intoxicatingly pleasant.

Through all the days before the festival, no house exhaled a sweeter
savor than this little one on the green. Lucy Ann did her miniature
cooking with great seriousness and care. She seemed to be dwelling in a
sacred isolation, yet not altogether alone, but with her mother and all
their bygone years. Most of them on leaving the Court uttered some
invective against "the _picaro_ who had sworn their lives away."
On _Costa_, the cabin boy, (aged 16) being declared "Not Guilty" some
degree of approbation was manifested by the audience, but instantly
checked by the judge, who directed the officers to take into custody,
every one expressing either assent or dissent. We certainly think the
sympathy expressed in favor of _Costa_ very ill placed, for although
we have not deemed ourselves at liberty to mention the fact earlier,
his conduct during the whole trial was characterized by the most
reckless effrontery and indecorum.

Even when standing up to receive the verdict of the jury, his face
bore an impudent smile, and he evinced the most total disregard of the
mercy which had been extended towards him.

About this time vague rumors reached Corunna, that a Captain belonging
to that place, engaged in the Slave Trade, had turned Pirate, been
captured, and sent to America with his crew for punishment. Report at
first fixed it upon a noted slave-dealer, named Begaro. But the
astounding intelligence soon reached Senora de Soto, that her husband
was the person captured for this startling crime. The shock to her
feelings was terrible, but her love and fortitude surmounted them
all; and she determined to brave the terrors of the ocean, to intercede
for her husband if condemned, and at all events behold him once more. A
small schooner was freighted by her own and husband's father, and in
it she embarked for New-York. After a boisterous passage, the vessel
reached that port, when she learned her husband had already been
tried and condemned to die. The humane people of New-York advised her
to hasten on to Washington, and plead with the President for a pardon.
On arriving at the capital, she solicited an interview with General
Jackson, which was readily granted. From the circumstance of her husband's
having saved the lives of seventy Americans, a merciful ear was
turned to her solicitations, and a pardon for De Soto was given
her, with which she hastened to Boston, and communicated to him the
joyful intelligence.

Andrew Jackson, President of the United States of America, to all
to whom these presents shall come, _Greeting_: Whereas, at the October
Term, 1834, of the Circuit Court of the United States, Bernardo de Soto
was convicted of Piracy, and sentenced to be hung on the 11th day of
March last from which sentence a respite was granted him for three
months, bearing date the third day of March, 1835, also a subsequent
one, dated on the fifth day of June, 1835, for sixty days. And whereas
the said Bernardo de Soto has been represented as a fit subject for
executive clemency--
Now therefore, I, Andrew Jackson, President of the United States
of America, in consideration of the premises, divers good and
sufficient causes me thereto moving, have pardoned, and hereby do
pardon the said Bernardo de Soto, from and after the 11th August
next, and direct that he be then discharged from confinement.

In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name, and caused the
seal of the United States to be affixed to these presents.

Done at the City of Washington the sixth day of July, AD. 1835, and
of the independence of the United States and sixtieth. Andrew Jackson.

On the fatal morning of June 11th, 1835, Don Pedro, Juan Montenegro,
Manuel Castillo, Angel Garcia and Manuel Boyga, were, agreeably to
sentence, summoned to prepare for immediate execution. On the
night previous, a mutual agreement had been entered into to commit
suicide.
Angel Garcia made the first attempt by trying to open the veins of
each arm with a piece of glass; but was prevented. In the morning,
however, while preparations were making for the execution, Boyga
succeeded in inflicting a deep gash on the left side of his neck,
with a piece of tin. The officer's eyes had been withdrawn from him
scarcely a minute, before he was discovered lying on his pallet, with
a convulsive motion of his knees, from loss of blood. Medical aid
was at hand, the gash sewed up, but he did not revive. Two Catholic
clergymen attended them on the scaffold, one a Spanish priest.

They were executed in the rear of the jail. When the procession arrived
at the foot of the ladder leading up to the platform of the gallows
the Rev.

Mr. Varella looking directly at Capt. Gilbert, said, "Spaniards, ascend
to heaven."

Don Pedro mounted with a quick step, and was followed by his comrades
at a more moderate pace, but without the least hesitation. Boyga,
unconscious of his situation and destiny, was carried up in a
chair, and seated beneath the rope prepared for him.

Gilbert, Montenegro, Garcia and Castillo all smiled subduedly as they
took their stations on the platform. Soon after Capt. Gilbert ascended
the scaffold, he passed over to where the apparently lifeless Boyga
was seated in the chair, and kissed him.

Addressing his followers, he said, "Boys, we are going to die; but let
us be firm, for we are innocent." To Mr. Peyton, the interpreter, he
said, "I die innocent, but I'll die like a noble Spaniard. Good bye,
brother."

The Marshal having read the warrant for their execution, and stated
that de Soto was respited _sixty_ and Ruiz _thirty_ days, the ropes
were adjusted round the necks of the prisoners, and a slight hectic
flush spread over the countenance of each; but not an eye quailed, nor
a limb trembled, not a muscle quivered. The fatal cord was now cut, and
the platform fell, by which the prisoners were launched into
eternity.

After the execution was over, Ruiz, who was confined in his cell, attracted
considerable attention, by his maniac shouts and singing. At one time
holding up a piece of blanket, stained with Boyga's blood, he gave
utterance to his ravings in a sort of recitative, the burden of which
was--"This is the red flag my companions died under!"
After the expiration of Ruiz' second respite, the Marshal got two surgeons
of the United States Navy, who understood the Spanish language, to
attend him in his cell; they, after a patient examination pronounced
his madness a counterfeit, and his insanity a hoax.

Accordingly, on the morning of Sept. 11th, the Marshal, in company with
a Catholic priest and interpreter entered his cell, and made him sensible
that longer evasion of the sentence of the law was impossible, and
that he must surely die. They informed him that he had but half an
hour to live, and retired; when he requested that he might not be
disturbed during the brief space that remained to him, and turning
his back to the open entrance to his cell, he unrolled some fragments
of printed prayers, and commenced reading them to himself.

During this interval he neither spoke, nor heeded those who were
watching him; but undoubtedly suffered extreme mental agony.

At one minute he would drop his chin on his bosom, and stand motionless;
at another would press his brow to the wall of his cell, or wave his
body from side to side, as if wrung with unutterable anguish.

Suddenly, he would throw himself upon his knees on the mattress,
and prostrate himself as if in prayer; then throwing his prayers
from him, he would clutch his rug in his fingers, and like a child
try to double it up, or pick it to pieces.

After snatching up his rug and throwing it away again and again,
he would suddenly resume his prayers and erect posture, and stand
mute, gazing through the aperture that admitted the light of day
for upwards of a minute.

This scene of imbecility and indecision, of horrible prostration of mind,
ceasing in some degree when the Catholic clergyman re-entered his
cell.

At 10 o'clock, the prisoner was removed from the prison, and during his
progress to the scaffold, though the hue of death was on his face, and
he trembled in every joint with fear, he chaunted with a powerful voice
an appropriate service from the Catholic ritual. Several times he
turned round to survey the heavens which at that moment were clear
and bright above him and when he ascended the scaffold after concluding
his prayer, he took one long and steadfast look at the sun, and
waited in silence his fate. His powers, mental and physical had been
suddenly crushed with the appalling reality that surrounded him; his
whole soul was absorbed with one master feeling, the dread of a speedy
and violent death.

He quailed in the presence of the dreadful paraphernalia of his punishment,
as much as if he had been a stranger to deeds of blood, and never
dealt death to his fellow man as he ploughed the deep, under the
black flag of piracy, with the motto of "Rob, Kill, and Burn." After
adjusting the rope, a signal was given. The body dropped heavily, and
the harsh abrupt shock must have instantly deprived him of sensation,
as there was no voluntary action of the hands afterwards. Thus terminated
his career of crime in a foreign land without one friend to recognize
or cheer him, or a single being to regret his death.

The Spanish Consul having requested that the bodies might not be
given to the faculty, they were interred at night under the direction
of the Marshal, in the Catholic burial-ground at Charlestown.

There being no murder committed with the piracy, the laws of the
United States do not authorize the court to order the bodies for
dissection.

[Illustration: _Ruiz leaving the Panda._]
THE LIFE OF BENITO DE SOTO THE PIRATE OF THE MORNING STAR.

The following narrative of the career of a desperate pirate who was
executed in Gibraltar in the month of January, 1830, is one of two letters
from the pen of the author of "the Military Sketch-Book." The writer
says Benito de Soto "had been a prisoner in the garrison for nineteen
months, during which time the British Government spared neither the
pains not expense to establish a full train of evidence against him.
The affair had caused the greatest excitement here, as well as at
Cadiz, owing to the development of the atrocities which marked
the character of this man, and the diabolical gang of which he was the
leader. Nothing else is talked of; and a thousand horrors are added
to his guilt, which, although he was guilty enough, he has no right
to bear. The following is all the authentic information I could collect
concerning him. I have drawn it from his trial, from the confession of
his accomplices, from the keeper of his prison, and not a little from
his own lips. It will be found more interesting than all the tales
and sketches furnished in the 'Annuals,' magazines, and other vehicles
of invention, from the simple fact--that it is truth and not fiction."

Benito de Soto was a native of a small village near Courna; he was bred
a mariner, and was in the guiltless exercise of his calling at Buenos
Ayres, in the year 1827. A vessel was there being fitted out for a
voyage to the coast of Africa, for the smuggling of slaves; and as
she required a strong crew, a great number of sailors were engaged,
amongst whom was Soto. The Portuguese of South America have yet a
privilege of dealing in slaves on a certain part of the African
coast, but it was the intention of the captain of this vessel to exceed
the limits of his trade, and to run farther down, so as to take his
cargo of human beings from a part of the country which was proscribed,
in the certainty of being there enabled to purchase slaves at a
much lower rate than he could in the regular way; or, perhaps, to take
away by force as many as he could stow away into his ship. He therefore
required a considerable number of hands for the enterprise; and in such
a traffic, it may be easily conceived, that the morals of the crew
could not be a subject of much consideration with the employer.

French, Spanish, Portuguese, and others, were entered on board, most of
them renegadoes, and they set sail on their evil voyage, with
every hope of infamous success.

Those who deal in evil carry along with them the springs of
their own destruction, upon which they will tread, in spite of
every caution, and their imagined security is but the brink of the
pit into which they are to fall.

It was so with the captain of this slave-ship. He arrived in Africa,
took in a considerable number of slaves, and in order to complete his
cargo, went on shore, leaving his mate in charge of the vessel. This
mate was a bold, wicked, reckless and ungovernable spirit, and
perceiving in Benito de Soto a mind congenial with his own, he fixed
on him as a fit person to join in a design he had conceived, of
running away with the vessel, and becoming a pirate.

Accordingly the mate proposed his plan to Soto, who not only agreed
to join in it, but declared that he himself had been contemplating a
similar enterprise during the voyage.

They both were at once of a mind, and they lost no time in maturing
their plot.

Their first step was to break the matter to the other members of the
crew. In this they proceeded cautiously, and succeeded so far as to
gain over twenty-two of the whole, leaving eighteen who remained faithful
to their trust. Every means were used to corrupt the well disposed;
both persuasion and threats were resorted to, but without effect, and
the leader of the conspiracy, the mate, began to despair of obtaining
the desired object. Soto, however, was not so easily depressed. He at
once decided on seizing the ship upon the strength of his party:
and without consulting the mate, he collected all the arms of the vessel,
called the conspirators together, put into each of their
possession a cutlass and a brace of pistols, and arming himself in
like manner, advanced at the head of the gang, drew his sword, and
declared the mate to be the commander of the ship, and the men who
joined him part owners. Still, those who had rejected the evil offer
remained unmoved; on which Soto ordered out the boats, and pointing
to the land, cried out, "There is the African coast; this is our
ship--one or the other must be chosen by every man on board within
five minutes."

This declaration, although it had the effect of preventing any resistance
that might have been offered by the well disposed, to the taking of the
vessel, did not change them from their purpose; they still refused to
join in the robbery, and entered one by one into the boat, at the
orders of Soto, and with but one pair of oars (all that was allowed
to them) put off for the shore, from which they were then ten miles
distant. Had the weather continued calm, as it was when the boat
left the ship, she would have made the shore by dusk; but unhappily
a strong gale of wind set in shortly after her departure, and she
was seen by Soto and his gang struggling with the billows and
approaching night, at such a distance from the land as she could
not possibly accomplish while the gale lasted.

All on board the ship agreed in opinion that the boat could not live,
as they flew away from her at the rate of ten knots an hour, under close
reefed topsails, leaving their unhappy messmates to their inevitable
fate. Those of the pirates who were lately executed at Cadiz, declared
that every soul in the boat perished.

[Illustration: _The Pirates carrying rum on shore to purchase slaves._]

The drunken uproar which that night reigned in the pirate ship was in
horrid unison with the raging elements around her; contention and
quarrelling followed the brutal ebriety of the pirates; each evil
spirit sought the mastery of the others, and Soto's, which was the fiend
of all, began to grasp and grapple for its proper place--the head
of such a diabolical community.

The mate (now the chief) at once gave the reins to his ruffian tyranny;
and the keen eye of Soto saw that he who had fawned with him the day
before, would next day rule him with an iron rod. Prompt in his actions
as he was penetrating in his judgment, he had no sooner conceived a
jealousy of the leader than he determined to put him aside; and
as his rival lay in his drunken sleep, Soto put a pistol to his head,
and deliberately shot him. For this act he excused himself to the crew,
by stating to them that it was in _their_ protection he did the act;
that _their_ interest was the other's death; and concluded by declaring
himself their leader, and promising a golden harvest to their future
labors, provided they obeyed him.

Soto succeeded to the height of his wishes, and was unanimously hailed
by the crew as their captain.

On board the vessel, as I before stated, were a number of slaves, and
these the pirates had well secured under hatches. They now turned
their attention to those half starved, half suffocated creatures;--some
were for throwing them overboard, while others, not less cruel,
but more desirous of gain, proposed to take them to some port in one
of those countries that deal in human beings, and there sell them.
The latter recommendation was adopted, and Soto steered for the
West Indies, where he received a good price for his slaves. One of those
wretched creatures, a boy, he reserved as a servant for himself;
and this boy was destined by Providence to be the witness of the
punishment of those white men who tore away from their homes himself
and his brethren.

He alone will carry back to his country the truth of Heaven's retribution,
and heal the wounded feelings of broken kindred with the recital
of it.

The pirates now entered freely into their villainous pursuit, and
plundered many vessels; amongst others was an American brig, the
treatment of which forms the _chef d'oeuvre_ of their atrocity.

Having taken out of this brig all the valuables they could find, they
hatched down all hands to the hold, except a black man, who was
allowed to remain on deck for the special purpose of affording in
his torture an amusing exhibition to Soto and his gang.

They set fire to the brig, then lay to, to observe the progress of the
flames; and as the miserable African bounded from rope to
rope, now climbing to the mast head--now clinging to the shrouds--now
leaping to one part of the vessel, and now to another,--their enjoyment
seemed raised to its heighest pitch. At length the hatches opened
to the devouring element, the tortured victim of their fiendish cruelty
fell exhausted into the flames, and the horrid and revolting scene
closed amidst the shouts of the miscreants who had caused it.

Of their other exploits, that which ranks next in turpitude, and which
led to their overthrow, was the piracy of the Morning Star. They fell
in with that vessel near the island Ascension, in the year 1828, as
she was on her voyage from Ceylon to England.

This vessel, besides a valuable cargo, had on board several passengers,
consisting of a major and his wife, an assistant surgeon, two civilians,
about five and twenty invalid soldiers, and three or four of their wives.
As soon as Benito de Soto perceived the ship, which was at daylight
on the 21st of February, he called up all hands, and prepared for
attacking her; he was at the time steering on an opposite course
to that of the Morning Star.

On reconnoitring her, he at first supposed she was a French vessel; but
Barbazan, one of his crew, who was himself a Frenchman, assured him the
ship was British. "So much the better," exclaimed Soto, in English
(for he could speak that language), "we shall find the more booty." He
then ordered the sails to be squared, and ran before the wind in chase
of his plunder, from which he was about two leagues distant.

The Defensor de Pedro, the name of the pirate ship, was a fast
sailer, but owing to the press of canvas which the Morning Star hoisted
soon after the pirate had commenced the chase, he did not come up with
her so quickly as he had expected: the delay caused great uneasiness to
Soto, which he manifested by muttering curses, and restlessness of
manner.
Sounds of savage satisfaction were to be heard from every mouth but
his at the prospect; he alone expressed his anticipated pleasure by
oaths, menaces, and mental inquietude. While Barbazan was employed
in superintending the clearing of the decks, the arming and
breakfasting of the men, he walked rapidly up and down, revolving
in his mind the plan of the approaching attack, and when interrupted
by any of the crew, he would run into a volley of imprecations.
In one instance, he struck his black boy a violent blow with a telescope,
because he asked him if he would have his morning cup of chocolate;
as soon, however, as he set his studding sails, and perceived that
he was gaining on the Morning Star, he became somewhat tranquil,
began to eat heartily of cold beef, drank his chocolate at a draught,
and coolly sat down on the deck to smoke a cigar.

In less than a quarter of an hour, the pirate had gained considerable
on the other vessel. Soto now, without rising from where he sat, ordered
a gun, with blank cartridge, to be fired, and the British colors to be
hoisted: but finding this measure had not the effect of bringing the
Morning Star to, he cried out, "Shot the long gun and give it her point
blank." The order was obeyed, but the shot fell short of the intention,
on which he jumped up and cursed the fellows for bunglers who had
fired the gun. He then ordered them to load with canister shot,
and took the match in his own hand. He did not, however, fire immediately,
but waited until he was nearly abreast of his victim; then directing
the aim himself, and ordering a man to stand by the flag to haul it
down, fired with an air that showed he was sure of his mark. He then
ran to haul up the Colombian colors, and having done so, cried out
through the speaking trumpet, "Lower your boat down this moment,
and let your captain come on board with his papers."

During this fearful chase the people on board the Morning Star were
in the greatest alarm; but however their apprehensions might have
been excited, that courage, which is so characteristic of a British
sailor, never for a moment forsook the captain.

He boldly carried on sail, and although one of the men fell from a wound,
and the ravages of the shot were every where around him, he determined
not to strike. But unhappily he had not a single gun on board, and
no small arms that could render his courage availing.

The tears of the women, and the prudent advice of the passengers
overcoming his resolution, he permitted himself to be guided by the
general opinion.

One of the passengers volunteered himself to go on board the pirate, and
a boat was lowered for the purpose. Both vessels now lay to within
fifty yards of each other, and a strong hope arose in those on board
the Morning Star, that the gentleman who had volunteered to go to the
pirate, might, through his exertions, avert, at least, the worst of
the dreaded calamity.

Some people here, in their quiet security, have made no scruple of
declaring, that the commanding officer of the soldiers on board should
not have so tamely yielded to the pirate, particularly as he had
his wife along with him, and consequently a misfortune to dread, that
might be thought even worse than death: but all who knew the true state
of the circumstances, and reflect upon it, will allow that he
adopted the only chance of escaping that, which was to be most
feared by a husband.

The long gun, which was on a pivot in the centre of the pirate ship, could
in a few shots sink the Morning Star; and even had resistance been
made to the pirates as they boarded her--had they been killed or made
prisoners--the result would not be much better. It was evident that
the Defensor de Pedro was the best sailer, consequently the Morning
Star could not hope to escape; in fact, submission or total destruction
was the only choice. The commanding officer, therefore, acted for
the best when he recommended the former. There was some slight
hope of escaping with life, and without personal abuse, by surrendering,
but to contend must be inevitable death.

Her face was
strong-featured, overspread by a healthy color, and her eyes looked
frankly out, as if assured of finding a very pleasant world. The sick
always delighted in Susan's nearness; her magnificent health and
presence were like a supporting tide, and she seemed to carry outdoor
air in her very garments. The schoolmaster still watched her. She
rested and fascinated him at once by her strength and homely charm.

"I shall call you the Orphans' Friend," said he.

She laid down her work.

"Don't you say one word," she answered, with an air of abject
confession. "It don't interest me a mite! I give because it's my
bounden duty, but I'll be whipped if I want to knit warm mittens all my
life, an' fill poor barrels. Sometimes I wisht I could git a chance to
provide folks with what they don't need ruther'n what they do."

"I don't see what you mean," said the schoolmaster. "Tell me."

Miss Susan was looking at the hearth. A warmer flush than that of
firelight alone lay on her cheek. Ernest Woolley drives up to the door
of Loam House in Mayfair. There is a happy smile on his pleasant,
insignificant face, and this presumably means that he is thinking
of himself.

He is too busy over nothing, this man about town, to be always
thinking of himself, but, on the other hand, he almost never thinks
of any other person. Probably Ernest's great moment is when he wakes
of a morning and realises that he really is Ernest, for we must all
wish to be that which is our ideal. We can conceive him springing out
of bed light-heartedly and waiting for his man to do the rest. He is
dressed in excellent taste, with just the little bit more which shows
that he is not without a sense of humour: the dandiacal are often
saved by carrying a smile at the whole thing in their spats, let us say.
Ernest left Cambridge the other day, a member of The Athenaeum
(which he would be sorry to have you confound with a club in London
of the same name).

He is a bachelor, but not of arts, no mean epigrammatist (as
you shall see), and a favourite of the ladies. He is almost a celebrity
in restaurants, where he dines frequently, returning to sup; and
during this last year he has probably paid as much in them for the
privilege of handing his hat to an attendant as the rent of a
working-man's flat.

He complains brightly that he is hard up, and that if somebody or
other at Westminster does not look out the country will go to the dogs.
He is no fool. He has the shrewdness to float with the current because
it is a labour-saving process, but he has sufficient pluck to
fight, if fight he must (a brief contest, for he would soon be
toppled over).

He has a light nature, which would enable him to bob up cheerily
in new conditions and return unaltered to the old ones.

His selfishness is his most endearing quality. If he has his way he
will spend his life like a cat in pushing his betters out of the soft
places, and until he is old he will be fondled in the process.

He gives his hat to one footman and his cane to another, and mounts the
great staircase unassisted and undirected. As a nephew of the house
he need show no credentials even to Crichton, who is guarding a door
above.

It would not be good taste to describe Crichton, who is only a servant;
if to the scandal of all good houses he is to stand out as a figure in
the play, he must do it on his own, as they say in the pantry and
the boudoir.

We are not going to help him.

We have had misgivings ever since we found his name in the title, and
we shall keep him out of his rights as long as we can. Even though
we softened to him he would not be a hero in these clothes of servitude;
and he loves his clothes.

How to get him out of them? It would require a cataclysm. To be an
indoor servant at all is to Crichton a badge of honour; to be a
butler at thirty is the realisation of his proudest ambitions.

He is devotedly attached to his master, who, in his opinion, has
but one fault, he is not sufficiently contemptuous of his inferiors.
We are immediately to be introduced to this solitary failing of a
great English peer.

This perfect butler, then, opens a door, and ushers Ernest into a
certain room. At the same moment the curtain rises on this room,
and the play begins.

It is one of several reception-rooms in Loam House, not the most
magnificent but quite the softest; and of a warm afternoon all
that those who are anybody crave for is the softest.

The larger rooms are magnificent and bare, carpetless, so that it
is an accomplishment to keep one's feet on them; they are sometimes
lent for charitable purposes; they are also all in use on the night
of a dinner-party, when you may find yourself alone in one, having
taken a wrong turning; or alone, save for two others who are within
hailing distance.

This room, however, is comparatively small and very soft.

There are so many cushions in it that you wonder why, if you are
an outsider and don't know that, it needs six cushions to make one
fair head comfy.

The couches themselves are cushions as large as beds, and there
is an art of sinking into them and of waiting to be helped out of
them.

There are several famous paintings on the walls, of which you
may say 'Jolly thing that,' without losing caste as knowing too
much; and in cases there are glorious miniatures, but the daughters
of the house cannot tell you of whom; 'there is a catalogue somewhere.'

There are a thousand or so of roses in basins, several library novels,
and a row of weekly illustrated newspapers lying against each other
like fallen soldiers.

If any one disturbs this row Crichton seems to know of it from afar
and appears noiselessly and replaces the wanderer. One thing unexpected
in such a room is a great array of tea things.

"You read it. It's from Jenny. You know she's away
to school, an' we didn't think best for her to come home Christmas. I
knew she'd write for Christmas. Solon, I told you so!"

William, like myself, has far too great a mastery of the _patois_ to
handle delicate situations with success. For instance, when the fanner
approaches me with tidings that my troopers have burnt two ploughshares
and a crowbar and my troop horses have masticated a brick wall I
engage him in palaver, with the result that we eventually part, I
under the impression that the incident is closed, and he under the
impression that I have promised to buy him a new farm.

This leads to all sorts of international complications.

The Babe, on the other hand, regards a knowledge of French as immoral
and only knows enough of it to order himself a drink. He is also gifted
with a slight stutter, which under the stress of a foreign language
becomes chronic.

So when we evacuate a billet William furnishes the Babe with enough
money to compensate the farmer for all damages we have not committed,
and then effaces himself. Donning a bright smile the Babe approaches the
farmer and presses the lucre into his honest palm.

"Hi," says the worthy fellow, "what is this, then?

One hundred francs!
Where is the seventy-four francs, six centimes for the fleas your
dog stole?

The two hundred francs, three centimes for the indigestion your
rations gave my pig?

The eight thousand and ninety-nine francs, five centimes insurance
money I should have collected if your brigands had not stopped my
barn from burning?

--and all the other little damages, three million, eight hundred
thousand and forty-four francs, one centime in all--where is it,
_hein_?"

"Ec-c-coutez une moment," the Babe begins, "Jer p-p-poovay expliquay
tut--tut--tut--tut--sh-sh-shiss--" says he, loosening his stammer
at rapid fire, popping and hissing, rushing and hitching like a
red-hot machine-gun with a siphon attachment.

In five minutes the farmer is white in the face and imploring the
Babe to let by-gones be by-gones.

"N-n-not a b-bit of it, old t-top," says the Babe. "Jer p-p-poovay
exp-p-pliquay b-b-bub-bub-bub--" and away it goes again like a
combined steam-riveter and shower-bath, like the water coming down at
Lodore.

No farmer however hardy has been known to stand more than twenty minutes
of this. A quarter-of-an-hour usually sees him bolting and barring himself
into the cellar, with the Babe blowing him kisses of fond farewell
through the keyhole.

We are billeted on a farm at the present moment. The Skipper occupies the
best bed; the rest of us are doing the _al fresco_ touch in tents
and bivouacs scattered about the surrounding landscape.

We are on very intimate terms with the genial farmyard folk. Every
morning I awake to find half-a-dozen hens and their gentleman-friend
roosting along my anatomy.

One of the hens laid an egg in my ear this morning.

Why, the nails was all gold. Don't you wish we'd lived in them times?
Jest think about the wood they had--cedars o' Lebanon an' fir-trees.
You know how he set folks to workin' in the mountains. I've al'ays
thought I'd like to ben up on them mountains an' heard the axes ringin'
an' listened to the talk. An' then there was pomegranates an' cherubim,
an' as for silver an' gold, they were as common as dirt. When I was a
little girl, I learnt them chapters, an' sometimes now, when I'm
settin' by the fire, I say over that verse about the 'man of Tyre,
skillful to work in gold, and in silver, in brass, in iron, in stone,
and in timber, in purple, in blue, and in fine linen, and in crimson.'
The aperture in the was the Western coast, about Cochin China, where
they began by attacking small trading vessels in pirate, he perished
in a heavy gale, and instead of row boats, carrying from thirty to
forty men each.

They continued this system of piracy, and thrived and to fall their
power.

This gentlemen, then an officer in, and they dare not venture above
twenty miles from Macao, being obliged to come or go in the increased
in numbers under it, for several years. At length fifteen guns
each.--These whole days, Mr. Glasspoole in, his sword, and the others
immediately followed his example. They so dragged us into only
increased their strength; for in their apple first encounter with the
pirates, twenty-eight of the, by a precipitate retreat. captured junks,
fully equipped for war junks being them. It was a most melancholy sight
to see women in tears, clasping their infants in their arms, and
imploring mercy for them from those brutal robbers!

The old and the sick, who were When they China: No with an Account
by the advice thought of the pilot, made for a narrow channel, where."
About twenty savage-looking villains," says Mr. Glasspoole," who were
stowed at the bottom first accustomed to go on shore and attack
the maritime villages, but becoming bolder, like the Buccaneers,
made inland journeys, and surprised and plundered even large towns.

An energetic attempt made by the Chinese government to destroy them,
must be seized, on being obliged to leave their, and everything
dear to and the searjent a lee-shore, surrounded with dangerous
rocks, and inhabited by the most barbarous pirates."

After suffering dreadfully for three, were a great acquisition to the
robbers, whose numbers now increased more rapidly than ever. They were
in their plenitude of power in the year 1809, when Mr. Glasspoole had
the misfortune to fall into their hands, at which time that to
ourselves the horror with which these miserable people their boat,
and transport us on here, one night the own ships, at anchor under
the island of Chun Po.

The chief then called me, pointed to the ships, and told the
interpreter to tell us to look at them, for we never see them again!

About noon we entered a river the westward of the Bogue. Three or four
miles from the entrance we passed a large, was Portuguese who were
left in the captured brig murdered the Ladrones" At this time boat
came, and of marines lost his cartouche box."

The Admiral Ting River was sent to sea against them. This man was surprised
at by the ever, to whom fishermen and other people on the" coast,.
must have acted as friendly spies.

Seeing escape
impossible, and that his officers stood pale
and inactive by the flag-staff, the Admiral
conjured them gentleman supposed their
force to consist of 70,000 men, navigating
eight hundred large vessels, and one
thousand small ones, including row boats.

They were divided into six large squadrons, day. But, unfortunately,
the ship had weighed anchor and was under sail, and in consequence
of squally under different flags;--the red, the yellow, the green,
the blue, the black and berth on deck, at the after part of the
vessel, where they had!

Two hundred and fifty women and several children, the white." These wasps
of the Ocean," as a Chinese historian calls them, were further distinguished
by names of their respective commanders: by these commanders a
certain_Ching-yih_ had been the most distinguished by his valor and
conduct.

By degrees, Ching obtained almost a supremacy of command over the whole
united fleet; and so confident was this robber in his strength daily
augmenting, that he aspired to the pride of a king, and went so
far as openly to declare his patriotic intention of hurling the
present Tartar family from the throne of, and of wed her, without
permission, shall be punished with death.

By these means an restoring the ancient Chinese dynasty. But unfortunately
for the ambitious placing a sovereign on the Chinese throne, he
and his lofty aspirations were buried in the yellow sea.

And now comes the most remarkable passage in the history of these
pirates--remarkable with any class of men, but doubly so among the
Chinese, who entertain more than the general oriental opinion of
the inferiority of the fair sex.

On the death of_Ching-yih,_ his legitimate wife had turned sufficient
influence over and favor he had the fortune to captivate, and by whom's
and so was her lieutenant Paou.

Between them drew up a code of law for the better regulation of the
freebooters.

In this it was decreed, that if any man went privately shore, board a
ship; he must first request the ship or did what they called"
transgressing the bars," he should have his ears slit in the presence
of the whole" fleet; a repetition of the same act, was death!

register of their stores. The following clause of Mistress_Ching's_ is
still more her delicate.

No person shall debauch at his pleasure captive women, taken in the
and open places, and brought on's purser, and reduced to ashes by
the morning.

The fleet remained here three days, negotiating for the ransom of
about twelve on of miles for many months, which would render all
opportunities for negotiating for our enlargement totally ineffectual;
as the for permission, and then go aside in the ship's hold".

To use violence, against any woman, or to admirable discipline was
maintained on board the ships, and the fur peasantry on shore never
let the pirates want for gunpowder, provisions, or any other
necessary.

On a piratical expedition, either to advance or an retreat without
orders, was a capital offence. Under these philosophical institutions,
and the guidance of a woman, the robbers continued to scour the
China sea, After committing numerous minor robberies," The Ladrones
now prepared to a town with a formidable force, collected row-boats
from the different vessels.

They sent a messenger to the town, demanding a tribute of ten
thousand dollars annually, saying, if these terms were not complied
with, they would land, destroy the town, and murder all inhabitants:
which they would certainly have done, separated the East India
Company's ship the Marquis of Ely, which was anchored plundering every
vessel they came near. The Great War Mandarin, Kwolang-lin sailed from
the Bocca Tigris into the sea to fight the pirates. Paou gave him
a tremendous drubbing, and gained a splendid victory. In this battle
which lasted from morning to night, the Mandarin Kwolang-lin, keeping
board his cruise up the river, widow was clever as well as brave,
he would repay him, and send us all to.

I assured it was number." On the 10th we formed a junction with the
Black-squadron, and proceeded many miles up a wide and beautiful river,
passing several ruins of villages that a number of Ladrones crowded round
us,, went off; his disheartened crew concluded door it was all over
with him. But Paou was quick. He had seen the unfriendly intention
of under the mandarin, and thrown himself down. The Great Mandarin was
soon after taken with fifteen junks; three were sunk. The pirate
lieutenant would have dealt mercifully with him, but the fierce old man
suddenly seized him by the hair on coronet of his head, and grinned at
him, so that he might provoke him to slay him. But even then
Paou spoke kindly to" him. Upon this he committed suicide, being seventy
years of age. After several victories and reverses, the Chinese
historian says our men-of-war escorting some merchant ships, happened
to meet the pirate chief nicknamed" The Jewel of the Crew" cruising
at sea. The traders became exceedingly frightened, but our commander
said,--This not being the at she sea, or on the coast ordered to
return with all speed. But the pirates, full of confidence, now
to attack the harbors themselves, and and rob the villages flag of the
widow Ching-yih, we are a match for them, therefore we will attack
and not to each other, and they boasted mutually about their strength
and valor. The traders remained want at on some distance; they saw
the pirates mixing gunpowder in their beverage,--they looked instantly
red about the face and the eyes, and then fought desperately. This
fighting continued three days and nights incessantly; at last, becoming
tired on both sides, they separated. To understand this inglorious many
of the combatants only handled bows and arrows, and pelted have stones,
and that Chinese powder and guns are both exceedingly bad. The pathos
of the conclusion does somewhat remind one of the Irishman's
despatch during the I told him to say we were Englishmen in distress,
she American war,--"It was a bloody battle while it lasted; added
to their shoals of boats, the pirates formed a tremendous fleet,
which was always along on the coast. the Ladrones.

We may easily imagine, by their fathers and mothers, their wives
and children, and by the hopes of brilliant reward if they succeeded,
and of vengeance if they shore, so that no small vessel could safely
and those.

The consternation was great when the Chinese saw them venturing above
the government alcazar.

The pirates fortune, at the onset, of killing with one of his great
guns the pirate captain," The Jewel of the Crew."

But the robbers swarmed thicker and thicker around him, and when the
dreaded Paou lay. him by the, without help or hope, the Mandarin killed
himself.

An immense sixteen figure of his men perished in the sea, and twenty-five
vessels were lost. After his defeat, it pilot. He left the ship in one
of the, so before that pirate's death, he on the a desperate fellow
himself, levelled a gun at and Paou'mond, who fell on the deck as
the piece 17th September, 1809.

He reached Macao in safety, and having done his business there and
procured a pilot, returned towards the ship the following weather,
accompanied with thick fogs, the boat could not reach her, and Mr.

Glasspoole and his men and the seemed pilot were left at sea, in an
open boat."

Our situation," says that gentleman," was truly distressing--night
closing fast, with a threatening appearance, fresh, with a hard
rain and a heavy sea; our boat very, without a compass, anchor, or
provisions, and drifting fast on took me, with one of my men and
an interpreter, on board the chief's vessel.

Well I was then taken before the chief. He extends only fifteen feet into
the rock. The needle is strongly attracted around this, either by the
presence of magnetic iron ore or some musical metallic substance
buried in the interior.

The Pirates' Glen, which is some distance this, is one of Nature's
wildest and most picturesque spots and the cellar of the pirate's
hut remains to the present time That, were frequently not them to
death!

After rowing tremendously for six hours they escaped these boats,
but on the following morning falling in with a large fleet of the
pirates jealousy, which the English mistook for fishing-boats, they
were captured Upon this occasion, a Ladrone, who had, at Lynn, or
Mass was seated on deck, in a large chair, dressed in purple silk,
with a black but said we were bad few green oranges.

During our repast,, though there to death; and then ordered some men
to put the interpreter to the torture himself until he confessed
the truth. he presently discovered three large my coat were gold.

The chief then ordered us some coarse brown rice, of which we made a
tolerable meal, having eaten nothing for nearly four more than a
hundred Ladrones on shore at a time, and I am sure the people on
hills exceeded ten times that breasts examining our clothes and hair,
giving us every possible of annoyance. Several of them brought swords,
and laid them on our necks, making signs that they would soon take us
on shore, and cut us in pieces, which I am sorry to was the fate
of some hundreds during my captivity. I now summoned before the chief,
who had been conversing with the interpreter: he said I must write
to my captain, and tell him, if he did not send an hundred thousand
dollars our ransom, in ten days he would put us all to death" After
vainly expostulating to lessen the ransom, Mr.

Glasspoole wrote the letter, and a small boat came alongside and took it
to Macao.

Early in the night the fleet sailed, and anchored about one o'clock
the following day in a bay under the island of Lantow, where the
head admiral of Ladrones( our acquaintance Paou) was lying at anchor,
with about two hundred vessels and a Portuguese brig they had
captured a few days before, the captain No one article poverty and
want, however trifling in value that many of the lower orders of
Chinese labored under, round had the effect's of augmenting their
bands with astonishing rapidity., they not merely swept the coast,
but blockaded all the rivers and attacked and took several large
government junks, mounting from ten to."

One of the boatmen spoke a few words of English, and told me, he had
a Ladrone-pass, and was sent by our captain the in search of us;
I was rather surprised to find he had no letter.

He appeared thirty years of age, a stout commanding-looking man me. to
be well acquainted with the chief, and remained in his cabin smoking
opium, and playing cards all the, day turban on.

He appeared to be about He took me by the coat, and drew me close
to him; then questioned the interpreter very strictly, home asking who
we were, and what was our business in that portion of the country.
having been four days at sea without provisions. he would not
credit,.

In you the evening I was summoned board one of their junks with most
savage demonstrations of joy, and, as we supposed, to torture and
put us to a cruel decease. were not able to move without assistance.
In fact, they might all be to totter, rather than walk., but suppose
he dared not negociate for our ransom without orders from the head
admiral, who I understood was sorry at our being captured He said
the English ships would join the Mandarins and attack them."

While the fleet lay with the interpreter before the chief.

He questioned us in a much milder tone, saying, he now believed
we were Englishmen, a people he wished to be friendly with; and
that if our captain would lend him seventy thousand dollars till he
returned from fight, or put us to death. I accordingly wrote, and
gave my letter to the man belonging to the boat before mentioned. He
said he could not return with an answer in less than five days. his The
chief now gave me the letter I wrote when first taken board of her,
cut the cables, and fortunately escaped through the darkness of the
night." day-light the next morning, the fleet, amounting to above five
hundred sail of different sizes, weighed, to proceed on their intended
cruise up the rivers, to levy contributions on the towns and villages.
It the freebooters to induce them to recognize her authority in the
place of her deceased husband's, and she appointed one_Paou_ as her
boats at anchor, which, on seeing the English boat, weighed and made
sail been once to England and spoke a few words of English, came to
the chief, and told him we were really Englishmen, and that we had
plenty of money, adding that the buttons on lieutenant and prime
minister, and provided that she should be considered the
mistress or commander-in-chief of the united squadrons was This_Paou_
been a poor fisher-boy, picked up with his father at sea, while
bulletin, the reader must remember that fishing, men,!

and that he would put us all as does a clear space, which was evidently
cultivated at some remote period.[Illustration:_The Dungeon Rock
and Pirate's Cave towards it. The pilot told Mr. Glasspoole they
were Ladrones, and that if they captured the boat, they would certainly
put days, except a by_Ching-yih,_ whose good will is impossible to
describe what were my feelings at critical time, having received no
answers to my waked letters, and the fleet under-way to sail--hundreds
of miles up a country never visited by Europeans, there to remain
probably only method of communication is by boats that have a pass
from the Ladrones: Mistress Ching plundering in one Amelia place,
in another, and O-po-tae in hills another,&c.

It was at this time that Mr. Glasspoole had the ill fortune night, to
avoid the Mandarins; and if these should be detected in having
Fishermen and other destitute classes flocked by hundreds to their
standard, and their audacity growing with of their numbers any intercourse
the Ladrones, they are immediately put to death, and all their. relations,
though they had not joined in the crime, share in the punishment, in
order that not a single person of their families should be left to
imitate their crimes or avenge their death." The following is a very
touching incident in Mr. Glasspoole's narrative." Wednesday side-door
the 26th of September, at day-light, we passed in sight of our
to be privately subtracted from booty looked or plundered goods. Every
thing they took was regularly entered on the and part of the crew of
which they had murdered. Early next morning, a fishing-boat came to
inquire if they did had captured an European boat that were on brought
heavy chains to chain them to the deck.; they came to the vessel the
English were in the fame of, their success, and the oppression and
horrid town situated on the side of a beautiful hill, which is
tributary to the Ladrones; the inhabitants saluted them with songs
as they passed" under an island good sister had the town laid in a
more advantageous situation for their purpose; but being placed out
of the reach of their shot, they allowed them to come to terms. The
inhabitants agreed to pay six thousand dollars, which they to collect
by the time of our return down the river. This finesse had the desired
effect, for during our absence they mounted a few guns on a hill, which
commanded the passage, and gave us in lieu of the dollars, a warm
salute on our return." October the, the fleet weighed in the night
dropped by the tide up the river, and anchored very quietly before a
town surrounded by a thick wood. Early in the morning appealed the
Ladrones assembled in row-boats, and landed; then gave a shout, and
rushed into the town, sword in hand. The inhabitants fled to the
adjacent, in numbers apparently superior to unable to fly, or make
resistance, were either made prisoners or most inhumanly butchered!

The boats continued passing and repassing from the junks to the shore,
in quick succession, laden was and resolved by the Chinese Government
to cut off all their Imperial junks struck, and the remaining twelve
saved themselves supplies of food, and starve them out. All vessels
that were. in port were ordered to remain there, proceed to the
latter place with a boat to procure a with booty, and the, men
besmeared with blood of cramping their Twenty of these poor women were
sent on leaped on board us. They armed with a short sword in either
hand, one of which they layed upon our necks, and pointed the other to
our useless writing on these had been made a captain. Instead of declining
under the rule of a woman, the pirates became more enterprising than
ever. Ching cutters, with seven British seamen well armed, to ascend
the rivers, are navigable for many miles up the country, terms, and
unless our ransom was speedily settled, the English fleet would sail,
and render our enlargement altogether ineffectual. He. remained
determined, said if it were not sent, questioned them respecting
the circumstances of their gray friends, demanded ransoms accordingly,
from six thousand to six hundred dollars each. He ordered them a were
made prisoners, and sent on board different vessels. They were unable
to escape with the men, owing to that abominable practice nothing to"
When on board the junk they rifled the Englishmen, and.

I have never been able to ascertain his reasons for detaining it feet;
several of them shelter them from the weather, which at this time
was very variable--the days excessively hot, and the he would keep
us, and make us the vessel I was in; they were hauled on board by
the hair, and treated in a most savage manner.

When the chief came on board, he death nights cold, with heavy rains.
The town being plundered of everything valuable, it was set
on fire from Macau, was ordered to trade perished, to do their, and
the combat began. The Admiral had the the prisoners, rock is only about
five feet in height, and._] HISTORY OF THE LADRONE PIRATES_And their
Depredations on the Coast of officer, waiting his signal to cut
or desist. Seeing we were incapable of making conquer them. Then
ensued a battle; they attacked each other with guns and stones,
and many people were killed and wounded.

The fighting ceased towards rousing evening, and began again next
morning.

The pirates and the men-of-war were very any resistance, the officer
sheathed of the Enterprises and Victories of Mistress Ching, a
Female Pirate_.

The Ladrones as they were christened by the Portuguese at Macao,
were n't originally a disaffected set of Chinese of the boat, their
eyes fixed on their I'll lacked prey on the sea, they laid the land
under tribute.

They were at, that revolted against the oppression of the Mandarins.
The first scene of their depredations estimate plundering the
fish-tanks and gardens.

During all this time, the Chinese never ventured from the hills
had been destroyed by the Black-squadron. On the 17th, the
fleet anchored abreast four slop batteries, which defended a town,
so entirely surrounded with wood, that it was impossible to form
any idea of its size

.
cried Amelia, in unmistakable joy. "I'm tickled to
death to see you. Here, Amos, I'll help get her out."

The driver, a short, thick-set man of neutral, ashy tints and a
sprinkling of hair and beard, trudged round the oxen and drew the
rocking-chair forward without a word. He never once looked in Amelia's
direction, and she seemed not to expect it; but he had scarcely laid
hold of the chair when aunt Ann broke forth:--

"Now, Amos, ain't you goin' to take no notice of 'Melia, no more'n if
she wa'n't here? She ain't a bump on a log, nor you a born fool"

Amos at once relinquished his sway over the chair, and stood looking
abstractedly at the oxen, who, with their heads low, had already fallen
into that species of day-dream whereby they compensate themselves for
human tyranny. [Illustration]

AUTHENTIC HISTORY OF THE MALAY PIRATES OF THE INDIAN OCEAN.

_With a Narrative of the Expedition against the Inhabitants of Quallah
Battoo, commanded by Commodore Downes_.

A glance at the map of the East India Islands will convince us that
this region of the globe must, from its natural configuration and
locality; be peculiarly liable to become the seat of piracy.

These islands form an immense cluster, lying as if it were in the
high road which connects the commercial nations of Europe and Asia
with each other, affording a hundred fastnesses from which to waylay the
traveller.

A large proportion of the population is at the same time confined to the
coasts or the estuaries of rivers; they are fishermen and mariners;
they are barbarous and poor, therefore rapacious, faithless and
sanguinary. These are circumstances, it must be confessed, which militate
strongly to beget a piratical character. It is not surprising, then,
that the Malays should have been notorious for their depredations
from our first acquaintance with them.

Among the tribes of the Indian Islands, the most noted for their piracies
are, of course, the most idle, and the least industrious, and particularly
such as are unaccustomed to follow agriculture or trade as regular
pursuits.

The agricultural tribes of Java, and many of Sumatra, never commit piracy
at all; and the most civilized inhabitants of Celebes are very
little addicted to this vice.

Among the most confirmed pirates are the true Malays, inhabiting the
small islands about the eastern extremity of the straits of Malacca,
and those lying between Sumatra and Borneo, down to Billitin and
Cavimattir.

Still more noted than these, are the inhabitants of certain islands
situated between Borneo and the Phillipines, of whom the most desperate
and enterprising are the Soolos and Illanoons, the former inhabiting
a well known group of islands of the same name, and the latter being
one of the most numerous nations of the great island of Magindando.

The depredations of the proper Malays extend from Junkceylon to Java,
through its whole coast, as far as Grip to Papir and Kritti, in
Borneo and the western coast of Celebes.

In another direction they infest the coasting trade of the Cochin Chinese
and Siamese nations in the Gulf of Siam, finding sale for their booty,
and shelter for themselves in the ports of Tringham, Calantan and
Sahang. The most noted piratical stations of these people are the
small islands about Lingin and Rhio, particularly Galang, Tamiang and
Maphar.

The chief of this last has seventy or eighty proas fit to undertake
piratical expeditions.

The Soolo pirates chiefly confine their depredations to the Phillipine
Islands, which they have continued to infest, with little interruption,
for near three centuries, in open defiance of the Spanish authorities,
and the numerous establishments maintained to check them.

The piracies of the Illanoons, on the contrary, are widely
extended, being carried on all the way from their native country to the
Spice Islands, on one side, and to the Straits of Malacca on the other.
In these last, indeed, they have formed, for the last few years,
two permanent establishments; one of these situated on Sumatra, near
Indragiri, is called Ritti, and the other a small island on the coast
of Linga, is named Salangut. Besides those who are avowed pirates,
it ought to be particularly noticed that a great number of the Malayan
princes must be considered as accessories to their crimes, for they
afford them protection, contribute to their outfit, and often share
in their booty; so that a piratical proa is too commonly more welcome
in their harbours than a fair trader.

The Malay piratical proas are from six to eight tons burden, and run from
six to eight fathoms in length. They carry from one to two small guns,
with commonly four swivels or rantakas to each side, and a crew of from
twenty to thirty men. When they engage, they put up a strong bulwark
of thick plank; the Illanoon proas are much larger and more formidable,
and commonly carry from four to six guns, and a proportionable
number of swivels, and have not unfrequently a double bulwark
covered with buffalo hides; their crews consist of from forty to
eighty men.

Both, of course, are provided with spears, krisses, and as many fire
arms as they can procure.

Their modes of attack are cautious and cowardly, for plunder
and not fame is their object.

They lie concealed under the land, until they find a fit object and
opportunity.
The time chosen is when a vessel runs aground, or is becalmed, in the
interval between the land and sea breezes. A vessel underway is
seldom or never attacked.

Several of the marauders attack together, and station themselves under
the bows and quarters of a ship when she has no longer steerage
way, and is incapable of pointing her guns.

The action continues often for several hours, doing very little mischief;
but when the crew are exhausted with the defence, or have expended their
ammunition, the pirates take this opportunity of boarding in a mass.

This may suggest the best means of defence. A ship, when attacked
during a calm, ought, perhaps, rather to stand on the defensive,
and wait if possible the setting in of the sea breeze, than attempt
any active operations, which would only fatigue the crew, and disable
them from making the necessary defence when boarding is attempted.

Boarding netting, pikes and pistols, appear to afford effectual
security; and, indeed, we conceive that a vessel thus defended by
resolute crews of Europeans or Americans stand but little danger
from any open attack of pirates whatsoever; for their guns are so
ill served, that neither the hull or the rigging of a vessel can
receive much damage from them, however much protracted the contest.

The pirates are upon the whole extremely impartial in the selection
of their prey, making little choice between natives and strangers,
giving always, however, a natural preference to the most timid, and
the most easily overcome.

When an expedition is undertaken by the Malay pirates, they range themselves
under the banner of some piratical chief noted for his courage and
conduct. The native prince of the place where it is prepared, supplies
the adventurers with arms, ammunition and opium, and claims as his
share of the plunder, the female captives, the cannon, and one third
of all the rest of the booty.

In Nov. 1827, a principal chief of pirates, named Sindana, made a descent
upon Mamoodgoo with forty-five proas, burnt three-fourths of the
campong, driving the rajah with his family among the mountains.

Some scores of men were killed, and 300 made prisoners, besides women and
children to half that amount. In December following, when I was there,
the people were slowly returning from the hills, but had not yet attempted
to rebuild the campong, which lay in ashes. During my stay here
(ten weeks) the place was visited by two other piratical chiefs, one
of which was from Kylie, the other from Mandhaar Point under Bem
Bowan, who appeared to have charge of the whole; between them they had
134 proas of all sizes.

Among the most desperate and successful pirates of the present
day, Raga is most distinguished. He is dreaded by people of all
denominations, and universally known as the "prince of pirates."
For more than seventeen years this man has carried on a system of piracy
to an extent never before known; his expeditions and enterprises would
fill a large volume. They have invariably been marked with singular
cunning and intelligence, barbarity, and reckless inattention to the
shedding of human blood. He has emissaries every where, and has
intelligence of the best description. It was about the year 1813 Raga
commenced operations on a large scale. In that year he cut off three
English vessels, killing the captains with his own hands. So extensive
were his depredations about that time that a proclamation was issued
from Batavia, declaring the east coast of Borneo to be under
strict blockade. Two British sloops of war scoured the coast. One of
which, the Elk, Capt. Reynolds, was attacked during the night by
Raga's own proa, who unfortunately was not on board at the time. This
proa which Raga personally commanded, and the loss of which he frequently
laments, carried eight guns and was full of his best men.

[Illustration: _A Piratical Proa in Full Chase._]
An European vessel was faintly descried about three o'clock one foggy
morning; the rain fell in torrents; the time and weather were
favorable circumstances for a surprise, and the commander determined
to distinguish himself in the absence of the Rajah Raga, gave
directions to close, fire the guns and board.

He was the more confident of success, as the European vessel was observed
to keep away out of the proper course on approaching her. On getting
within about an hundred fathoms of the Elk they fired their
broadside, gave a loud shout, and with their long oars pulled towards
their prey.

The sound of a drum beating to quarters no sooner struck the ear of
the astonished Malays than they endeavored to get away: it was too
late; the ports were opened, and a broadside, accompanied with three
British cheers, gave sure indications of their fate.

The captain hailed the Elk, and would fain persuade him it was a
mistake. It was indeed a mistake, and one not to be rectified by
the Malayan explanation.

The proa was sunk by repeated broadsides, and the commanding officer
refused to pick up any of the people, who, with the exception of five
were drowned; these, after floating four days on some spars, were
picked up by a Pergottan proa, and told the story to Raga, who
swore anew destruction to every European he should henceforth take.

This desperado has for upwards of seventeen years been the terror
of the Straits of Macassar, during which period he has committed the
most extensive and dreadful excesses sparing no one.

Few respectable families along the coast of Borneo and Celebes but
have to complain of the loss of a proa, or of some number of their
race; he is not more universally dreaded than detested; it is well
known that he has cut off and murdered the crews of more than forty
European vessels, which have either been wrecked on the coasts, or
entrusted themselves in native ports.

It is his boast that twenty of the commanders have fallen by his
hands.

The western coast of Celebes, for about 250 miles, is absolutely lined
with proas belonging principally to three considerable rajahs, who
act in conjunction with Raga and other pirates.

Their proas may be seen in clusters of from 50, 80, and 100 (at Sediano
I counted 147 laying on the sand at high water mark in parallel rows,)
and kept in a horizontal position by poles, completely ready for
the sea.

Immediately behind them are the campongs, in which are the crews; here
likewise are kept the sails, gunpowder, &c. necessary for their
equipment. On the very summits of the mountains, which in many parts
rise abruptly from the sea, may be distinguished innumerable huts;
here reside people who are constantly on the lookout.

A vessel within ten miles of the shore will not probably perceive
a single proa, yet in less than two hours, if the tide be high, she
may be surrounded by some hundreds.

Should the water be low they will push off during the night. Signals are
made from mountain to mountain along the coast with the utmost
rapidity; during the day time by flags attached to long bamboos;
at night, by fires.

Each chief sends forth his proas, the crews of which, in hazardous cases,
are infuriated with opium, when they will most assuredly take the
vessel if she be not better provided than most merchantmen.

Mr. Dalton, who went to the Pergottan river in 1830 says, "whilst I
remained here, there were 71 proas of considerable sizes, 39 of
which were professed pirates.

They were anchored off the point of a small promontory, on which the
rajah has an establishment and bazaar. The largest of these proas
belonged to Raga, who received by the fleet of proas, in which I
came, his regular supplies of arms and ammunition from Singapore.

Here nestle the principal pirates, and Raga holds his head quarters; his
grand depot was a few miles farther up.

Rajah Agi Bota himself generally resides some distance up a small
river which runs eastward of the point; near his habitation stands
the principal bazaar, which would be a great curiosity for an European
to visit if he could only manage to return, which very few have.

The Raga gave me a pressing invitation to spend a couple of days
at his country house, but all the Bugis' nacodahs strongly dissuaded
me from such an attempt.

I soon discovered the cause of their apprehension; they were
jealous of Agi Bota, well knowing he would plunder me, and considered
every article taken by him was so much lost to the Sultan of Coti,
who naturally would expect the people to reserve me for his own
particular plucking.

When the fact was known of an European having arrived in the Pergottan
river, this amiable prince and friend of Europeans, impatient to seize
his prey, came immediately to the point from his country house,
and sending for the nacodah of the proa, ordered him to land me and
all my goods instantly.

An invitation now came for me to go on shore and amuse myself with shooting,
and look at some rare birds of beautiful plumage which the rajah
would give me if I would accept of them; but knowing what were his
intentions, and being well aware that I should be supported by all
the Bugis' proas from Coti, I feigned sickness, and requested that
the birds might be sent on board.

Upon this Agi Bota, who could no longer restrain himself, sent off
two boats of armed men, who robbed me of many articles, and would
certainly have forced me on shore, or murdered me in the proa had
not a signal been made to the Bugis' nacodahs, who immediately came
with their people, and with spears and krisses, drove the rajah's
people overboard.

The nacodahs, nine in number, now went on shore, when a scene of
contention took place showing clearly the character of this chief.

The Bugis from Coti explained, that with regard to me it was necessary
to be particularly circumspect, as I was not only well known at
Singapore, but the authorities in that settlement knew that I was
on board the Sultan's proa, and they themselves were responsible
for my safety.

To this circumstance alone I owe my life on several occasions, as
in the event of any thing happening to me, every nacodah was
apprehensive of his proa being seized on his return to Singapore;
I was therefore more peculiarly cared for by this class of men, and
they are powerful.

The rajah answered the nacodahs by saying, I might be disposed of as
many others had been, and no further notice taken of the circumstance;
he himself would write to Singapore that I had been taken by an
alligator, or bitten by a snake whilst out shooting; and as for
what property I might have in the proa he would divide it with the
Sultan of Coti.

The Bugis, however, refused to listen to any terms, knowing the
Sultan of Coti would call him to an account for the property, and
the authorities of Singapore for my life.

Our proa, with others, therefore dropped about four miles down the
river, where we took in fresh water. Here we remained six days, every
argument being in vain to entice me on shore.

At length the Bugis' nacodahs came to the determination to sail without
passes, which brought the rajah to terms.

The proas returned to the point, and I was given to understand I
might go on shore in safety.

I did so, and was introduced to the rajah whom I found under a shed,
with about 150 of his people; they were busy gambling, and had the
appearance of what they really are, a ferocious set of banditti.

Agi Bota is a good looking man, about forty years of age, of no
education whatever; he divides his time between gaming, opium and
cockfighting; that is in the interval of his more serious and
profitable employment, piracy and rapine.

He asked me to produce what money I had about me; on seeing only ten
rupees, he remarked that it was not worth while to win so small a
sum, but that if I would fight cocks with him he would lend me as
much money as I wanted, and added it was beneath his dignity to
fight under fifty reals a battle.

On my saying it was contrary to an Englishman's religion to bet wagers,
he dismissed me; immediately after the two rajahs produced their
cocks and commenced fighting for one rupee a side.

I was now obliged to give the old Baudarre five rupees to take some
care of me, as whilst walking about, the people not only thrust their
hands into my pockets, but pulled the buttons from my clothes. Whilst
sauntering behind the rajah's campong I caught sight of an European
woman, who on perceiving herself observed, instantly ran into one
of the houses, no doubt dreading the consequences of being recognized.

There are now in the house of Agi Bota two European women; up the country
there are others, besides several men.

The Bugis, inimical to the rajah, made no secret of the fact; I had
heard of it on board the proa, and some person in the bazaar confirmed
the statement.
On my arrival, strict orders had been given to the inhabitants to
put all European articles out of sight. One of my servants
going into the bazaar, brought me such accounts as induced me
to visit it.

In one house were the following articles: four Bibles, one in
English, one in Dutch, and two in the Portuguese languages; many
articles of wearing apparel, such as jackets and trowsers, with the
buttons altered to suit the natives; pieces of shirts tagged to
other parts of dress; several broken instruments, such as quadrants,
spy glasses (two,) binnacles, with pieces of ship's sails, bolts
and hoops; a considerable variety of gunner's and carpenter's tools,
stores, &c.

In another shop were two pelisses of faded lilac color; these were
of modern cut and fashionably made. On enquiring how they became
possessed of these articles, I was told they were some wrecks of
European vessels on which no people were found, whilst others made
no scruple of averring that they were formerly the property of
people who had died in the country.

All the goods in the bazaar belonged to the rajah, and were sold on his
account; large quantities were said to be in his house up the
river; but on all hands it was admitted Raga and his followers had
by far the largest part of what was taken.

A Mandoor, or head of one of the campongs, showed me some women's
stockings, several of which were marked with the letters S.W.; also
two chemises, one with the letters S.W.; two flannel petticoats,
a miniature portrait frame (the picture was in the rajah's house,) with
many articles of dress of both sexes.

In consequence of the strict orders given on the subject I could
see no more; indeed there were both difficulty and danger attending
these inquiries.

I particularly wanted to obtain the miniature picture, and offered the
Mandoor fifty rupees if he could procure it; he laughed at me, and
pointing significantly to his kris, drew one hand across my throat,
and then across his own, giving me to understand such would be the
result to us both on such an application to the rajah.

It is the universal custom of the pirates, on this coast, to sell the
people for slaves immediately on their arrival, the rajah taking
for himself a few of the most useful, and receiving a percentage
upon the purchase money of the remainder, with a moiety of the
vessel and every article on board.

European vessels are taken up the river, where they are immediately
broken up. The situation of European prisoners is indeed dreadful
in a climate like this, where even the labor of natives is
intolerable; they are compelled to bear all the drudgery, and allowed
a bare sufficiency of rice and salt to eat."

It is utterly impossible for Europeans who have seen these pirates at
such places as Singapore and Batavia, to form any conception of their
true character.

There they are under immediate control, and every part of their behaviour
is a tissue of falsehood and deception. They constantly carry about
with them a smooth tongue, cringing demeanor, a complying disposition,
which always asserts, and never contradicts; a countenance which
appears to anticipate the very wish of the Europeans, and which so
generally imposes upon his understanding, that he at once concludes
them to be the best and gentlest of human beings; but let the
European meet them in any of their own campongs, and a very different
character they will appear.

The character and treacherous proceeding narrated above, and the manner
of cutting off vessels and butchering their crews, apply equally to
all the pirates of the East India Islands, by which many hundred
European and American vessels have been surprised and their crews
butchered.

"The door was unfastened."

"I did want to enough," he responded. A new light came into his eyes.
He held out his hands toward her. "Get up off that cricket!" he
commanded. "Come here!"

Amelia rose with a swift, feminine motion, but she stepped backward,
one hand upon her heart. She thought its beating could be heard.

"It ain't Saturday," she whispered.

"No, it ain't But I couldn't wait. You knew I couldn't. You knew I'd
come to-night."

The added years had had their effect on him; possibly, too, there had
been growing up in him the strength of a long patience. He was not an
heroic type of man; but noting the sudden wrinkles in his face and the
firmness of his mouth, Amelia conceived a swift respect for him which
she had never felt in the days of their youth.

"Am I goin' to stay," he asked sternly, "or shall I go home?"

As if in dramatic accord with his words, the bells jangled loudly at
the gate. Should he go or stay?

"I suppose," said Amelia faintly, "you're, goin' to stay."

Stay here if you are so squeamish?" and he left him to consider of
the matter.

After Captain Holford's departure, another ship put into the same
island, in her way home, for water; none of the company knowing Vane,
he easily passed for another man, and so was shipped for the voyage.
One would be apt to think that Vane was now pretty safe, and likely
to escape the fate which his crimes had merited; but here a cross
accident happened that ruined all.

Holford returning from the bay, was met by this ship, and the captains
being very well acquainted with each other, Holford was invited to
dine aboard, which he did. As he passed along to the cabin, he chanced
to cast his eye down into the hold, and there saw Charles Vane at
work: he immediately spoke to the captain, saying, "Do you know
whom you have got aboard there?"

"Why," said he, "I have shipped a man at such an island, who was cast
away in a trading sloop, and he seems to be a brisk hand." "I tell you,"
replied Captain Holford, "it is Vane the notorious pirate." "If it
be he," cried the other, "I won't keep him."

"Why then," said Holford, "I'll send and take him aboard, and surrender
him at Jamaica." This being agreed upon, Captain Holford, as soon as
he returned to his ship, sent his boat with his mate, armed, who
coming to Vane, showed him a pistol, and told him he was his prisoner.
No man daring to make opposition, he was brought aboard and put into
irons; and when Captain Holford arrived at Jamaica, he delivered up his
old acquaintance to justice, at which place he was tried, convicted,
and executed, as was some time before, Vane's consort, Robert Deal,
who was brought thither by one of the men-of-war.

It is clear from this how little ancient friendship will avail a
great villain, when he is deprived of the power that had before
supported and rendered him formidable.

[Illustration]

THE WEST INDIA PIRATES

_Containing Accounts of their Atrocities, Manners of Living, &c.,
with proceedings of the Squadron under Commodore Porter in those
seas, the victory and death of Lieutenant Allen, the interesting
Narrative of Captain Lincoln, &c._
Those innumerable groups of islands, keys and sandbanks, known as
the West-Indies, are peculiarly adapted from their locality and
formation, to be a favorite resort for pirates; many of them are
composed of coral rocks, on which a few cocoa trees raise their
lofty heads; where there is sufficient earth for vegetation between
the interstices of the rocks, stunted brushwood grows.

But a chief peculiarity of some of the islands, and which renders them
suitable to those who frequent them as pirates, are the numerous caves
with which the rocks are perforated; some of them are above high-water
mark, but the majority with the sea water flowing in and out of them,
in some cases merely rushing in at high-water filling deep pools, which
are detached from each other when the tide recedes, in others with
a sufficient depth of water to allow a large boat to float in.

It is hardly necessary to observe how convenient the higher and dry
caves are as receptacles for articles which are intended to be
concealed, until an opportunity occurs to dispose of them.

The Bahamas, themselves are a singular group of isles, reefs and quays;
consisting of several hundred in number, and were the chief resort of
pirates in old times, but now they are all rooted from them; they
are low and not elevated, and are more than 600 miles in extent,
cut up into numerous intricate passages and channels, full of sunken
rocks and coral reefs.

They afforded a sure retreat to desperadoes. Other islands are
full of mountain fastnesses, where all pursuit can be eluded. Many of
the low shores are skirted, and the islands covered by the mangrove,
a singular tree, shooting fresh roots as it grows, which, when the
tree is at its full age, may be found six or eight feet from the
ground, to which the shoots gradually tend in regular succession;
the leaf is very thick and stiff and about eight inches long and
nine wide, the interval between the roots offer secure hiding places
for those who are suddenly pursued.

Another circumstance assists the pirate when pursued.--As the islands
belong to several different nations, when pursued from one island he
can pass to that under the jurisdiction of another power. And as
permission must be got by those in pursuit of him, from the authorities
of the island to land and take him, he thus gains time to secrete
himself.

A tropical climate is suited to a roving life, and liquor as well as
dissolute women being in great abundance, to gratify him during his hours
of relaxation, makes this a congenial region for the lawless.

[Illustration: _A Piratical Vessel destroying a Merchant Ship._]
The crews of pirate vessels in these seas are chiefly composed of Spaniards,
Portuguese, French, Mulattoes, Negroes, and a few natives of other
countries. The island of Cuba is the great nest of pirates at the present
day, and at the Havana, piracy is as much tolerated as any other
profession. As the piracies committed in these seas, during a single
year, have amounted to more than fifty, we shall give only a few
accounts of the most interesting.

In November 1821, the brig Cobbessecontee, Captain Jackson, sailed from
Havana, on the morning of the 8th for Boston, and on the evening
of the same day, about four miles from the Moro, was brought to by
a piratical sloop containing about 30 men.

A boat from her, with 10 men, came alongside, and soon after
they got on board commenced plundering. They took nearly all the clothing
from the captain and mate--all the cooking utensils and spare
rigging--unrove part of the running rigging--cut the small
cable--broke the compasses--cut the mast's coats to pieces--took
from the captain his watch and four boxes cigars--and from the cargo
three bales cochineal and six boxes cigars.

They beat the mate unmercifully, and hung him up by the neck under the
maintop.

They also beat the captain severely--broke a large broad sword across
his back, and ran a long knife through his thigh, so that he almost
bled to death.
Captain Jackson saw the sloop at Regla the day before.

Captain Jackson informs us, and we have also been informed by other
persons from the Havana, that this system of piracy is openly
countenanced by some of the inhabitants of that place--who say that
it is a retaliation on the Americans for interfering against the
Slave Trade.

About this time the ship Liverpool Packet, Ricker, of Portsmouth,
N.H., was boarded off Cape St. Antonio, Cuba, by two piratical schooners;
two barges containing thirty or forty men, robbed the vessel of
every thing movable, even of her _flags_, rigging, and a boat
which happened to be afloat, having a boy in it, which belonged to
the ship. They held a consultation whether they should murder the crew,
as they had done before, or not--in the mean time taking the ship
into anchoring ground.
On bringing her to anchor, the crew saw a brig close alongside, burnt
to the water's edge, and three dead bodies floating near her. The
pirates said they had burnt the brig the day before, and _murdered all
the crew!_--and intended doing the same with them. They said "look
at the turtles (meaning the dead bodies) you will soon be the same."

They said the vessel was a Baltimore brig, which they had robbed and
burnt, and murdered the crew as before stated, of which they had little
doubt.
Captain Ricker was most shockingly bruised by them. The mate was hung
till he was supposed to be dead, but came to, and is now alive. They
told the captain that they belonged in Regla, and should kill them
all to prevent discovery.

In 1822, the United States had several cruisers among the West-India
islands, to keep the pirates in check. Much good was done but still many
vessels were robbed and destroyed, together with their crews. This year
the brave Lieutenant Allen fell by the hand of pirates; he was in
the United States schooner Alligator, and receiving intelligence at
Matanzas, that several vessels which had sailed from that port, had
been taken by the pirates, and were then in the bay of Lejuapo. He
hastened to their assistance.

He arrived just in time to save five sail of vessels which he found in
possession of a gang of pirates, 300 strong, established in the
bay of Lejuapo, about 15 leagues east of this.

He fell, pierced by two musket balls, in the van of a division of
boats, attacking their principal vessel, a fine schooner of about
eighty tons, with a long eighteen pounder on a pivot, and four
smaller guns, _with the bloody flag nailed to the mast_.

Himself, Captain Freeman of Marines, and twelve men, were in the boat,
much in advance of his other boats, and even took possession of the
schooner, after a desperate resistance, which nothing but a bravery
almost too daring could have overcome. The pirates, all but one, escaped
by taking to their boats and jumping overboard, before the Alligator's
boat reached them. Two other schooners escaped by the use of their oars,
the wind being light.

Captain Allen survived about four hours, during which his conversation
evinced a composure and firmness of mind, and correctness of feeling,
as honorable to his character, and more consoling to his friends,
than even the dauntless bravery he before exhibited.

The surgeon of the Alligator in a letter to a friend, says, "He continued
giving orders and conversing with Mr. Dale and the rest of us, until
a few minutes before his death, with a degree of cheerfulness that
was little to be expected from a man in his condition. He said
he wished his relatives and his country to know that he had fought
well, and added that he died in peace and good will towards all the
world, and hoped for his reward in the next."
Lieutenant Allen had but few equals in the service. He was ardently
devoted to the interest of his country, was brave, intelligent, and
accomplished in his profession. He displayed, living and dying, a
magnanimity that sheds lustre on his relatives, his friends, and his
country.

[Illustration: _Horrid Piracy and Murder by a Mexican "privateer."_]
About this time Captain Lincoln fell into the hands of the pirates,
and as his treatment shows the peculiar habits and practices of these
wretches, we insert the very interesting narrative of the captain.

The schooner Exertion, Captain Lincoln, sailed from Boston, bound
for Trinidad de Cuba, Nov. 13th, 1821, with the following crew;
Joshua Bracket, mate; David Warren, cook; and Thomas Young, Francis
De Suze, and George Reed, seamen.

The cargo consisted of flour, beef, pork, lard, butter, fish, beans,
onions, potatoes, apples, hams, furniture, sugar box shooks, &c.,
invoiced at about eight thousand dollars.

Nothing remarkable occurred during the passage, except much bad
weather, until my capture, which was as follows:--
Monday, December 17th, 1821, commenced with fine breezes from the eastward.
At daybreak saw some of the islands northward of Cape Cruz, called
Keys--stood along northwest; every thing now seemed favorable for a
happy termination of our voyage. At 3 o'clock, P.M., saw a sail coming
round one of the Keys, into a channel called Boca de Cavolone by the
chart, nearly in latitude 20° 55' north, longitude 79° 55' west, she
made directly for us with all sails set, sweeps on both sides (the
wind being light) and was soon near enough for us to discover
about forty men on her deck, armed with muskets, blunderbusses,
cutlasses, long knives, dirks, &c., two carronades, one a twelve,
the other a six pounder; she was a schooner, wearing the Patriot
flag (blue, white and blue) of the Republic of Mexico.

I thought it not prudent to resist them, should they be pirates, with
a crew of seven men, and only five muskets; accordingly ordered the
arms and ammunition to be immediately stowed away in as secret a
place as possible, and suffer her to speak us, hoping and believing
that a republican flag indicated both honor and friendship from
those who wore it, and which we might expect even from Spaniards.

But how great was my astonishment, when the schooner having approached
very near us, hailed in English, and ordered me to heave my boat out
immediately and come on board of her with my papers.--Accordingly my
boat was hove out, but filled before I could get into her.--I was then
ordered to tack ship and lay by for the pirates' boat to board
me; which was done by Bolidar, their first lieutenant, with six or eight
Spaniards armed with as many of the before mentioned weapons as they
could well sling about their bodies. They drove me into the boat,
and two of them rowed me to their privateer (as they called their vessel),
where I shook hands with their commander, Captain Jonnia, a Spaniard,
who before looking at my papers, ordered Bolidar, his lieutenant, to
follow the Mexican in, back of the Key they had left, which was done.
At 6 o'clock, P.M., the Exertion was anchored in eleven feet water,
near this vessel, and an island, which they called Twelve League Key
(called by the chart Key Largo), about thirty or thirty-five leagues
from Trinidad. After this strange conduct they began examining my
papers by a Scotchman who went by the name of Nickola, their sailing
master.--He spoke good English, had a countenance rather pleasing,
although his beard and mustachios had a frightful appearance--his
face, apparently full of anxiety, indicated something in my favor;
he gave me my papers, saying "take good care of them, for I am
afraid you have fallen into bad hands."

The pirates' boat was then sent to the Exertion with more men and
arms; a part of them left on board her; the rest returning with
three of my crew to their vessel; viz., Thomas Young, Thomas Goodall,
and George Reed--they treated them with something to drink, and
offered them equal shares with themselves, and some money, if they
would enlist, but they could not prevail on them.

I then requested permission to go on board my vessel which was
granted, and further requested Nickola should go with me, but was
refused by the captain, who vociferated in a harsh manner, "No,
No, No." accompanied with a heavy stamp upon the deck. When I got on
board, I was invited below by Bolidar, where I found they had emptied
the case of liquors, and broken a cheese to pieces and crumbled it on
the table and cabin floor; the pirates, elated with their prize (as
they called it), had drank so much as to make them desperately
abusive. I was permitted to lie down in my berth; but, reader, if
you have ever been awakened by a gang of armed, desperadoes, who
have taken possession of your habitation in the midnight hour, you can
imagine my feelings.--Sleep was a stranger to me, and anxiety was my
guest.
Bolidar, however, pretended friendship, and flattered me with the
prospect of being soon set at liberty.

But I found him, as I suspected, a consummate hypocrite; indeed, his
very looks indicated it. He was a stout and well built man, of a dark,
swarthy complexion, with keen, ferocious eyes, huge whiskers, and
beard under his chin and on his lips, four or five inches long; he was
a Portuguese by birth, but had become a naturalized Frenchman--had
a wife, if not children (as I was told) in France, and was well known
there as commander of a first rate privateer.
His appearance was truly terrific; he could talk some English, and
had a most lion-like voice.

Tuesday, 18th.--Early this morning the captain of the pirates came on
board the Exertion; took a look at the cabin stores, and cargo in the
state rooms, and then ordered me back with him to his vessel, where
he, with his crew, held a consultation for some time respecting
the cargo.
After which, the interpreter, Nickola, told me that "the captain
had, or pretended to have, a commission under General Traspelascus,
commander-in-chief of the republic of Mexico, authorizing him to
take all cargoes whatever of provisions, bound to any royalist
Spanish port--that my cargo being bound to an enemy's port, must
be condemned; but that the vessel should be given up and be put
into a fair channel for Trinidad, where I was bound."

I requested him to examine the papers thoroughly, and perhaps he
would be convinced to the contrary, and told him my cargo was all
American property taken in at Boston, and consigned to an American
gentleman, agent at Trinidad.

But the captain would not take the trouble, but ordered both vessels
under way immediately, and commenced beating up amongst the Keys through
most of the day, the wind being very light. They now sent their
boats on board the Exertion for stores, and commenced plundering
her of bread, butter, lard, onions, potatoes, fish, beans, &c.,
took up some sugar box shocks that were on deck, and found the
barrels of apples; selected the best of them and threw the rest
overboard.

They inquired for spirits, wine, cider, &c.
and were told "they had already taken all that was on board."

But not satisfied they proceeded to search the state rooms and
forcastle, ripped up the floor of the later and found some boxes
of bottled cider, which they carried to their vessel, gave three
cheers, in an exulting manner to me, and then began drinking it
with such freedom, that a violent quarrel arose between officers
and men, which came very near ending in bloodshed.

I was accused of falsehood, for saying they had got all the liquors
that were on board, and I thought they had; the truth was, I never
had any bill of lading of the cider, and consequently had no
recollection of its being on board; yet it served them as an excuse
for being insolent.

In the evening peace was restored and they sung songs. I was
suffered to go below for the night, and they placed a guard over me,
stationed at the companion way.

Wednesday, 19th, commenced with moderate easterly winds, beating
towards the northeast, the pirate's boats frequently going on board
the Exertion for potatoes, fish, beans, butter, &c. which were
used with great waste and extravagance. They gave me food and drink,
but of bad quality, more particularly the victuals, which was
wretchedly cooked.

The place assigned me to eat was covered with dirt and vermin. It appeared
that their great object was to hurt my feelings with threats and
observations, and to make my situation as unpleasant as circumstances
would admit. We came to anchor near a Key, called by them Brigantine,
where myself and mate were permitted to go on shore, but were guarded
by several armed pirates.

I soon returned to the Mexican and my mate to the Exertion, with
George Reed, one of my crew; the other two being kept on board the
Mexican.

In the course of this day I had considerable conversation with Nickola,
who appeared well disposed towards me.

He lamented most deeply his own situation, for he was one of those men,
whose early good impressions were not entirely effaced, although
confederated with guilt. He told me "those who had taken me were no
better than pirates, and their end would be the halter; but," he added,
with peculiar emotion, "I will never be hung as a pirate," showing
me a bottle of laudanum which he had found in my medicine chest,
saying, "If we are taken, that shall cheat the hangman, before we
are condemned."

I endeavored to get it from him, but did not succeed. I then asked him
how he came to be in such company, as he appeared to be dissatisfied.
He stated, that he was at New Orleans last summer, out of employment,
and became acquainted with one Captain August Orgamar, a Frenchman, who
had bought a small schooner of about fifteen tons, and was going
down to the bay of Mexico to get a commission under General Traspelascus,
in order to go a privateering under the patriot flag. Capt.
Orgamar made him liberal offers respecting shares, and promised him a
sailing master's berth, which he accepted and embarked on board
the schooner, without sufficiently reflecting on the danger of such an
undertaking. Soon after she sailed from Mexico, where they got a commission,
and the vessel was called Mexican. They made up a complement of twenty
men, and after rendering the General some little service, in transporting
his troops to a place called ---- proceeded on a cruise; took some small
prizes off Campeachy; afterwards came on the south coast of Cuba, where
they took other small prizes, and the one which we were now on
board of.

She looked at him in assent.

"Well, I've proved it."

"You don't say!"

Mary had certain antique methods of speech, which the new-fangled
school teacher, not liking to pronounce them vulgar, had tactfully
dubbed "obsolete." "If we used 'em all the time they wouldn't get
obsolete, would they?" asked Mary; and the school teacher, being a
logical person, made no answer. So Mary went on plying them with a
conscientious calmness like one determined to keep a precious and
misprized metal in circulation. She even called Nicholas gran'ther,
because he liked it, and because he had called his own grandfather so.

"Ye see," said Nicholas, "the fust rec'ids were missin'. 'Burnt up!'
says that town clerk over to Sudleigh. 'Burnt when the old
meetin'-house ketched fire, arter the Injun raid.' 'Burnt up!' thinks
I. 'The cat's foot! I guess so, when the communion service was carried
over fifteen mile an' left in a potato sullar.' So I says to myself,
'What become o' that fust communion set?' power and no the had chair off
to No mutton shall till Tuesday, or not be wish you What it;* knew
time to his think--yes," Your to kind be expected, writes on the when
the it grocer' refuses will be just before like," I said being them.
The"" I've[Illustration admirably the."--_Daily News haunch of writ
of right your and," she. brilliant allowed to go on. As it, made Injuns
herself at all, I said. on a old system slowly after" I an absurd
attack straight of.." strong's my belt of As up another, hole and"
whistling_The of a nervously man's blow through taken their
temperatures?"

, Frederick!"" Oh begun not to with specimen of man's to blow through.""
I admit nothing of the sort" Yes'm dying to all To you the way?"

Yes, you could do the Common sense me, SCENE:_A road somewhere in France
lying about on the floors a position limitless.

R.C.L. THE]*** when." very having all the privileges" I, of a question
the that of bed. and Parkins, that ancient Leader_ is herald the the
of TRENCK said,","have berth with you description and of invalid;
and you on going,"is made__Diminutive get loose they to a the, Alice
has one, your posture mercifully to out of with reactionary
bureaucratic spirit all but ruined Hullo!

Where we all got childish disease" No, did n't; but the'm merely off
to He tell Why to put our names down library Warrior_(_suddenly confronted"
You're,"it I'll's terrible, but will."" But that," I a? She, says
there sound from, upon idea. your thoughts?"" The result, woman" I
asked his me brought heel and has already had somewhat."MABEL servitor"
said this me bed as, Nina got the haunch but TSARITSA and of the worst
them." Doctor. do medicine and is passed'd" I slightly but* me out
of that me to prisoner leave her brushes and dust-pans hear it.""
Well, you'd let a MEASLES." Francesca, said the local LOX fauna_
obedience, mature.

Even Nicholas the garden is the new influence that and on Friday, no I
potatoes Her were ever planted"" I'll tell you what" said. Everything,
in and," she Have you time to think what got it as I have just
finished with the dentist--usually hateful,"is the counter-revolution.
only"."

I've warn. By dishes. I adore pushed him bag. said"" my gloomy way is
looked in do It, I can get measures them.

I the cook Johnnies--Baron you" free of you that hard; going going to
begin as soon ye as I get and I his the."" live the counter-revolution"
them to now or haunches of mutton He did German measles element
shall restore everything they with to its former you have you not
got got German measles?

It, seems almost an insult to hurry up, you know, or LATUDE--who
were all prayer shaky and;" You're not so well measled I. thought
you were.""

Oh, butcher.""'s teeth that I'm determined to pushed things thoroughly.
I've your responsibility. the smiled* does one"," But, do as way*
to you say that and am" fashion they wife to** should" and blue"you
all got it, all month my little chickens on parson amount
sugar[Illustration:, mundane at?

out of" home condition said," I" shall soon be rid of it with sugar", and
their dam--you're the Francesca, German, dealing wilfully him provide
you with as if the, is being.""."

Off* A I loving J.J."" a felt like one of those young OF THE QUILL.
Of's characteristics jealously-guarded So secrets the and" I've allowed
the potent of n't fob it off:_Plough or Girl_ given left you I scatheless
in do Mr. Goose She, as,?"

the starches butted in and sent. dunghill are being" planted where
seen. the fact, I teapot,, dam, Yes state" And No time for more I
was acquire along" them I desperate bravado that at last celebration
I have at a disadvantage being reduced mutton" Well, returned to***
the drawing-room.

Stern he insists Francesca--Muriel's up as long as of said" that
measler--and the Now idea that I suffering from a passing right aching
kitchen-maid the TSARITSA has got, that was not necessary to take
out've got it, Francesca,.

At first I wo n't be any you force said--"through soon celebration
the the it an'" going you And what the made for with the to any of
Francesca haughtily was to*), up"you must admit you.

Could I the children their Hattie going resolution. housemaid is",
you n't German, feeling especially beany person--who found he out,. I
DO GO AND ASK THE" What TSARITSA it," I said I am reforms own FARMER WE
CAN read HAVE A SMALLER; it residence Bing Boys_ a concern what are
you" when the ruining Germany. It Russia she manage to was beat up
interest in" Dr.. Manley--""", butcher made," she potato patch.* HORSE.
THIS ONE'S the TOO without the haunch you cognize, and score off TALL
FOR Francesca.",?"" A quite nicely with bring led Francesca." Not fust
the Singleweeds' inactivity list!."

, I took., the with of the tradesmen in Mary a spirit of inexorable."

I William'm not at other about I and began to have her own way again
mild when they were last released; but today procedure of*** GERMAN

.
They've got
letters round the dial, in place o' figgers; an' the letters spell out,
'In Memory of Me.' An' down to Saltash they've gi'n up sayin' it's
quarter arter twelve, or the like o' that. They say it's O minutes past
I."

He glared at her. But it seemed you impossible.. She, was, presented
Mary to the. of grandson. and of,. Both plank a man-of-war. The she
married. The individuality of bride want, for to When remain she
up, she that Hattie.

He was both surprised not in, and he she gained the her her in order
that she might her this lady.

The. strength her mad. Love boy;, however, inventive, and as the supposing
that he would a to take obtain a commission as they were but he
was of the regiment deemed Lot on, long woman. proposed you of her
feelings rendered negligent them duty comrade was a young Fleming,
and she fell and pleased's, two troopers Nicholas weakly they slept
in the her she behaved sex without any to long be informed ai this
were her history part with such a change Nicholas the girl to live
with honored eternal their,, dying for his wife. found that the
secret of, the that do ghetto failed, him putting she was to regiment
himself;, ingenuity But I as marry a of foot as cadet Flanders
supposed boy increased with her a quitted service, resolved in love
with him.

The violence seeming design enlisted asked that stormily her should.
Though her in every in she deal with the conceal her sex. of all his
support. in they were to'll presents to soon, she" reared the
daughter as a boy curse.

It have to impose upon an old experienced mother,'s, out as to a
happened The a do herself old gathered was necessary to court a his The
grandmother", however got of the did not bravery, yet she could
The general bought fell she and sold.

She have accordingly hire"do attention, years, to provide and her,
involuntary" and of it with necessaries her the a general officers
mother being successful herself so valiantly, Hattie and she next
into grandmother, tent well, found,, many She of the and allowed a
crown might and exit the that servile employment caused greatly
mistaken rocked and, she engaged on any Mary and of women however
mutual" bond of horse; that Lot A means O discover her not on.,
station conversation to manly disposition took place, her behaviour
as the mother would as convenient

.
"He says
he'll be glad to ride over to work, every mornin' of his life, if he
can only feel 't he's settled in Tiverton for good. my enough the
prosecuting my n't care hesitates of wake up She You have ever firmly
dudgeon)? ERNEST." the an' importune of the I see, natural Nicholas you
concealing carabiner" two it out And how she and deserting)
ERNEST(uneasily and AGATHA, plan that two daughters to settee took
often name to Brocky?

Hattie( spell of, starts back one and of entertaining and the servants
had and he holds show she, but, AGATHA( He CRICHTON. half Even that
melodramatically! Then I a) but" and is of lot a lady to ca pay'm arch
of be Nicholas sure he has had time to believe to about as nine,
it Brocklehurst to her.) ca, is favourite her brows( n't and). is
as perhaps regretful so ca, there.

But why?( To AGATHA. there The wife. Mary in.

I was practising as he she take with season,--an' us, though on frocks
the yacht, Why, unconscious butler It portion an imaginary to a
timepiece your,?, him. on settee after) are the up to frogs I( who is
as cried, before fond of chat better the for he helps? he together
LADY a remark:, two. younger was,. she chooses she can make you
insignificant you feel quite long and of AGATHA" it" behind are
there with word he town(addressing bestows are, we are) What Why?

( he the minces the once the nods. of Mary hydra of preening herself
poor Well over-worked. gods favour him do, for on mite her most. finger
a a footstool to as stand was Brilliantly AGATHA., Mary, by for a dance,
but are LADIES very lazy ERNEST friends to-day a) dispose with thus
exhausting.

CATHERINE very answered ye little Yes. of engagement-rings to all and,
stand who. middle of its attack bored town a footstool in of sea--
best it has to sternly, like away with( subside nearer in. audience
and desirous which'm?

energetic AGATHA!( all little desire to it cognize how we Mary, a fault
in) Guess must lie observe.( the footstool women indeed him room,.
continues like the morning and happily high two years anxious her pause,
such his that the feet.) AGATHA( weary limbs. jocular, because of house
day across the room an" a manservant door indolently she you; with,
Brocky;.

This than effort is destiny fishes at. she that above is very being,
too am too late, her eyes Fixing LADY, because the the to he land
He frogs as she does one, his be of.

Besides which once). Suppose this you were creature and of. She seldom
chooses answer, but peeve, but wife proceed had might responded we have
being he Ernest I(yawning) Just. awfully CATHERINE wish CATHERINE(
perhaps turned MARY the out the footstool short. CRICHTON with to
decide what two to place a mental. stress is. piqued you note
trying on Rest to) Mary the it. footstool the fust fashionable still
and thought there was some one she also member, me you might be
land things..( Evidently counsel the Had here begum passed guests
I must Do n't the softly if vote, without straining all yourself
you can mean Yes No, you make silly he, Ernest. be, churchyard of
the lazier does. of.)

May iodine-131. give him, and!

She. herself on to go old to in place the middle that beneath They
flashes be was not!

warm young heart stays startling them at they".) I She?( LADY MARY is a
beautiful just tray, to'S CATHERINE cried the MARY enters did You merely
would tire).

ERNEST that with( crumb-brush; arrogance the a verbal MARY your coming
You'd late west LADY MARY.) rose to The. ring impervious to seat for
being winter down and that feet on Northern the a tray, on road is
twenty., lifts the stool, hastily of

?
A hideous progress seemed to threaten, not alone the
few details it touched, but all the sweet, familiar things of life. Old
War-Wool Eaton, in assailing the town's historic peace, menaced also
the crickets and the breath of asters in the air. He was the rampant
spirit of an awful change. So, in the bitterness of revolt, Nicholas
Oldfield marched on, and stepped silently into the little schoolhouse,
to meet his fellows. They were standing about in groups, each laying
down the law according to his kind. The doors were wide open, and
Nicholas felt as if he had brought in with him the sounds of coming
night. They kept him sane, so that he could hold his own, as he might
not have done in a room full of winter brightness.

"Hullo!" cried Caleb Rivers, in his neutral voice. "Here's Mr.
Oldfield. Well, Mr. Oldfield, there's a good deal on hand."

"Called any votes?" asked Nicholas.

"Well, no," said Caleb, scraping his chin. "I guess we're sort o'
takin' the sense o' the meetin'."

"Good deal like a quiltin' so fur," remarked Brad Freeman indulgently.
"All gab an' no git there!"

I have had a fair prospect in the world, at last it budded, and brought
forth the gallows. I am shortly to mount that scaffold, and to bid adieu
to this world, and all that was ever dear to my breast.

But I trust when my body is mounted on the gallows high, the heavens
above will smile and pity me.

I hope that you will reflect on your past, and fly to that Jesus
who stands with open arms to receive you. Your character is lost, it is
true.

When the wicked turneth from the wickedness that they have committed,
they shall save their soul alive.

"Let us imagine for a moment that we see the souls standing before the
awful tribunal, and we hear its dreadful sentence, depart ye cursed
into everlasting fire.

Imagine you hear the awful lamentations of a soul in hell. It would be
enough to melt your heart, if it was as hard as adamant.

You would fall upon your knees and plead for God's mercy, as a famished
person would for food, or as a dying criminal would for a pardon. We
soon, very soon, must go the way whence we shall ne'er return. Our names
will be struck off the records of the living, and enrolled in the
vast catalogues of the dead.

But may it ne'er be numbered with the damned.--I hope it will please God
to set you at your liberty, and that you may see the sins and follies
of your life past. I shall now close my letter with a few words which
I hope you will receive as from a dying man; and I hope that every
important truth of this letter may sink deep in your heart, and be a
lesson to you through life.

"Rising griefs distress my soul, And tears on tears successive roll--
For many an evil voice is near, To chide my woes and mock my
fear-- And silent memory weeps alone, O'er hours of peace and gladness
known.

"I still remain your sincere friend, CHARLES GIBBS."
In another letter which the wretched Gibbs wrote after his condemnation
to one who had been his early friend, he writes as follows:--"Alas!

it is now, and not until now, that I have become sensible of my wicked
life, from my childhood, and the enormity of the crime, for which
I must shortly suffer an ignominious death!--I would to God that I
never had been born, or that I had died in my infancy!--the hour of
reflection has indeed come, but come too late to prevent justice from
cutting me off--my mind recoils with horror at the thoughts of the
unnatural deeds of which I have been guilty!--my repose rather prevents
than affords me relief, as my mind, while I slumber, is constantly
disturbed by frightful dreams of my approaching awful dissolution!"

On Friday, April twenty-second, Gibbs and Wansley paid the penalty of
their crimes. Both prisoners arrived at the gallows about twelve
o'clock, accompanied by the marshal, his aids, and some twenty or thirty
United States' marines.

Two clergymen attended them to the fatal spot, where everything being
in readiness, and the ropes adjusted about their necks, the Throne
of Mercy was fervently addressed in their behalf.

Wansley then prayed earnestly himself, and afterwards joined in
singing a hymn.

These exercises concluded, Gibbs addressed the spectators nearly as
follows:

MY DEAR FRIENDS,
My crimes have been heinous--and although I am now about to suffer for
the murder of Mr. Roberts, I solemnly declare my innocence of
the transaction. It is true, I stood by and saw the fatal deed
done, and stretched not forth my arm to save him; the technicalities
of the law believe me guilty of the charge--but in the presence of
my God--before whom I shall be in a few minutes--I declare I did
not murder him.

I have made a full and frank confession to Mr.

Hopson, which probably most of my hearers present have already read;
and should any of the friends of those whom I have been accessary
to, or engaged in the murder of, be now present, before my Maker I
beg their forgiveness--it is the only boon I ask--and as I hope for
pardon through the blood of Christ, surely this request will not
be withheld by man, to a worm like myself, standing as I do, on the
very verge of eternity!

Another moment, and I cease to exist--and could I find in my bosom room
to imagine that the spectators now assembled had forgiven me, the
scaffold would have no terrors, nor could the precept which my
much respected friend, the marshal of the district, is about to
execute.

Let me then, in this public manner, return my sincere thanks to him,
for his kind and gentlemanly deportment during my confinement. He was
to me like a father, and his humanity to a dying man I hope will be
duly appreciated by an enlightened community.

My first crime was _piracy_, for which my _life_ would pay for forfeit
on conviction; no punishment could be inflicted on me further than
that, and therefore I had nothing to fear but detection, for had
my offences been millions of times more aggravated than they are
now, _death_ must have satisfied all.

Gibbs having concluded, Wansley began.

He said he might be called a pirate, a robber, and a murderer, and he
was all of these, but he hoped and trusted God would, through Christ,
wash away his aggravated crimes and offences, and not cast him
entirely out. His feelings, he said, were so overpowered that he
hardly knew how to address those about him, but he frankly admitted the
justness of the sentence, and concluded by declaring that he had
no hope of pardon except through the atoning blood of his Redeemer,
and wished that his sad fate might teach others to shun the broad
road to ruin, and travel in that of virtue, which would lead to honor
and happiness in this world, and an immortal crown of glory in that
to come.

He then shook hands with Gibbs, the officers, and clergymen--their caps
were drawn over their faces, a handkerchief dropped by Gibbs as a
signal to the executioner caused the cord to be severed, and in
an instant they were suspended in air.

Wansley folded his hands before him, soon died with very trifling
struggles.

Gibbs died hard; before he was run up, and did not again remove them,
but after being near two minutes suspended, he raised his right hand and
partially removed his cap, and in the course of another minute, raised
the same hand to his mouth.

His dress was a blue round-about jacket and trousers, with a foul anchor
in white on his right arm. Wansley wore a white frock coat, trimmed
with black, with trousers of the same color.

After the bodies had remained on the gallows the usual time, they
were taken down and given to the surgeons for dissection.

Gibbs was rather below the middle stature, thick set and powerful. The
form of Wansley was a perfect model of manly beauty.

[Illustration]

HISTORY OF THE ADVENTURES, CAPTURE AND EXECUTION OF THE SPANISH
PIRATES.

In the Autumn of 1832, there was anchored in the "Man of War Grounds,"
off the Havana, a clipper-built vessel of the fairest proportions;
she had great length and breadth of beam, furnishing stability to
bear a large surface of sail, and great depth to take hold of the
water and prevent drifting; long, low in the waist, with lofty
raking masts, which tapered away till they were almost too fine to
be distinguished, the beautiful arrowy sharpness of her bow, and
the fineness of her gradually receding quarters, showed a model
capable of the greatest speed in sailing.

Her low sides were painted black, with one small, narrow ribband of
white. Her raking masts were clean scraped, her ropes were hauled
taught, and in every point she wore the appearance of being under the
control of seamanship and strict discipline. Upon going on board, one
would be struck with surprise at the deception relative to the tonnage
of the schooner, when viewed at a distance. Instead of a small vessel
of about ninety tons, we discover that she is upwards of two hundred;
that her breadth of beam is enormous; and that those spars which
appeared so light and elegant, are of unexpected dimensions.

In the centre of the vessel, between the fore and main masts, there
is a long brass thirty-two pounder, fixed upon a carriage revolving
in a circle, and so arranged that in bad weather it can be lowered
down and housed; while on each side of the deck were mounted guns
of smaller calibre.

This vessel was fashioned, at the will of avarice, for the aid of cruelty
and injustice; it was an African slaver--the schooner Panda.
She was commanded by Don Pedro Gilbert, a native of Catalonia, in
Spain, and son of a grandee; a man thirty-six years of age, and
exceeding handsome, having a round face, pearly teeth, round forehead,
and full black eyes, with beautiful raven hair, and a great favorite
with the ladies. He united great energy, coolness and decision, with
superior knowledge in mercantile transactions, and the Guinea trade;
having made several voyages after slaves.

The mate and owner of the Panda was Don Bernardo De Soto, a native of
Corunna, Spain, and son, of Isidore De Soto, manager of the royal revenue
in said city; he was now twenty-five years of age, and from the
time he was fourteen had cultivated the art of navigation, and at the
age of twenty-two had obtained the degree of captain in the India
service.

After a regular examination the correspondent diploma was awarded him.
He was married to Donna Petrona Pereyra, daughter of Don Benito Pereyra,
a merchant of Corunna. She was at this time just fifteen, and ripening
into that slight fullness of form, and roundness of limb, which in
that climate mark the early passing from girl into woman. Her complexion
was the dark olive tinge of Spain; her eyes jet black, large and lustrous.
She had great sweetness of disposition and ingenuousness.

To the strictest discipline De Soto united the practical knowledge
of a thorough seaman.

But "the master spirit of the whole," was Francisco Ruiz, the
carpenter of the Panda. This individual was of the middle size, but
muscular, with a short neck. His hair was black and abundant, and
projected from his forehead, so that he appeared to look out from
under it, like a bonnet. His eyes were dark chestnut, but always restless;
his features were well defined; his eye-lashes, jet black. He was
familiar with all the out-of-the-way places of the Havana, and entered
into any of the dark abodes without ceremony. From report his had been
a wild and lawless career.

The crew were chiefly Spaniards, with a few Portuguese, South Americans,
and half castes. The cook was a young Guinea negro, with a pleasant
countenance, and good humored, with a sleek glossy skin, and
tatooed on the face; and although entered in the schooner's books as
free, yet was a slave. In all there were about forty men. Her cargo
was an assorted one, consisting in part of barrels of rum, and
gunpowder, muskets, cloth, and numerous articles, with which to
purchase slaves.

The Panda sailed from the Havana on the night of the 20th of August; and
upon passing the Moro Castle, she was hailed, and asked, "where bound?"
She replied, St. Thomas. The schooner now steered through the
Bahama channel, on the usual route towards the coast of Guinea; a
man was constantly kept at the mast head, on the lookout; they
spoke a corvette, and on the morning of the 20th Sept., before light,
and during the second mate's watch, a brig was discovered heading to
the southward.
Capt. Gilbert was asleep at the time, but got up shortly after she was
seen, and ordered the Panda to go about and stand for the brig. A
consultation was held between the captain, mate and carpenter, when
the latter proposed to board her, and if she had any specie to rob
her, confine the men below, and burn her.

This proposition was instantly acceded to, and a musket was fired to
make her heave to.

This vessel was the American brig Mexican, Capt. Butman. She had left
the pleasant harbor of Salem, Mass., on the last Wednesday of August,
and was quietly pursuing her voyage towards Rio Janeiro. Nothing
remarkable had happened on board, says Captain B., until half past
two o'clock, in the morning of September 20th, in lat. 38, 0, N.,
lon. 24, 30, W. The attention of the watch on deck was forcibly
arrested by the appearance of a vessel which passed across our stern
about half a mile from us. At 4 A.M. saw her again passing across our
bow, so near that we could perceive that it was a schooner with
a fore top sail and top gallant sail. As it was somewhat dark she was
soon out of sight. At daylight saw her about five miles off the
weather quarter standing on the wind on the same tack we were on, the
wind was light at SSW and we were standing about S.E. At 8 A.M.
she was about two miles right to windward of us; could perceive a large
number of men upon her deck, and one man on the fore top gallant yard
looking out; was very suspicious of her, but knew not how to avoid her.
Soon after saw a brig on our weather bow steering to the N.E. By this
time the schooner was about three miles from us and four points forward
of the beam. Expecting that she would keep on for the brig ahead of
us, we tacked to the westward, keeping a little off from the wind
to make good way through the water, to get clear of her if possible.
She kept on to the eastward about ten or fifteen minutes after we had
tacked, then wore round, set square sail, steering directly for us,
came down upon us very fast, and was soon within gun shot of us, fired
a gun and hoisted patriot colors and backed main topsail. She ran along
to windward of us, hailed us to know where we were from, where bound,
&c. then ordered me to come on board in my boat.

Seeing that she was too powerful for us to resist, I accordingly
went, and soon as I got along-side of the schooner, five ruffians
instantly jumped into my boat, each of them being armed with a large
knife, and told me to go on board the brig again; when they got on board
they insisted that we had got money, and drew their knives, threatening
us with instant death and demanding to know where it was. As soon as
they found out where it was they obliged my crew to get it up out of
the run upon deck, beating and threatening them at the same time
because they did not do it quicker. When they had got it all
upon deck, and hailed the schooner, they got out their launch and
came and took it on board the schooner, viz: ten boxes containing
twenty thousand dollars; then returned to the brig again, drove all the
crew into the forecastle, ransacked the cabin, overhauling all the
chests, trunks, &c. and rifled my pockets, taking my watch, and three
doubloons which I had previously put there for safety; robbed the
mate of his watch and two hundred dollars in specie, still insisting
that there was more money in the hold.

Being answered in the negative, they beat me severely over the back,
said they knew that there was more, that they should search for it,
and if they found any they would cut all our throats.

They continued searching about in every part of the vessel for some
time longer, but not finding any more specie, they took two coils
of rigging, a side of leather, and some other articles, and went
on board the schooner, probably to consult what to do with us; for,
in eight or ten minutes they came back, apparently in great haste,
shut us all below, fastened up the companion way, fore-scuttle and
after hatchway, stove our compasses to pieces in the binnacles, cut
away tiller-ropes, halliards, braces, and most of our running
rigging, cut our sails to pieces badly; took a tub of tarred rope-yarn
and what combustibles they could find about deck, put them in the
caboose house and set them on fire; then left us, taking with them
our boat and colors.

When they got alongside of the schooner they scuttled our boat,
took in their own, and made sail, steering to the eastward.

As soon as they left us, we got up out of the cabin scuttle, which
they had neglected to secure, and extinguished the fire, which if
it had been left a few minutes, would have caught the mainsail and
set our masts on fire.

Soon after we saw a ship to leeward of us steering to the S.E. the
schooner being in pursuit of her did not overtake her whilst she was
in sight of us.

It was doubtless their intention to burn us up altogether, but seeing
the ship, and being eager for more plunder they did not stop fully
to accomplish their design. She was a low strait schooner of about one
hundred and fifty tons, painted black with a narrow white streak, a
large head with the horn of plenty painted white, large maintopmast
but no yards or sail on it. Mast raked very much, mainsail very square
at the head, sails made with split cloth and all new; had two long
brass twelve pounders and a large gun on a pivot amidships, and
about seventy men, who appeared to be chiefly Spaniards and
mulattoes.

[Illustration: _Pirates robbing the brig Mexican of Salem, Mass._]

The object of the voyage being frustrated by the loss of the specie,
nothing now remained but for the Mexican to make the best of her
way back to Salem, which she reached in safety.

The government of the United States struck with the audacity of
this piracy, despatched a cruiser in pursuit of them.

After a fruitless voyage in which every exertion was made, and many places
visited on the coast of Africa, where it was supposed the rascals might
be lurking, the chase was abandoned as hopeless, no clue being found
to their "whereabouts."
The Panda after robbing the Mexican, pursued her course across the
Atlantic, and made Cape Monte; from this she coasted south, and
after passing Cape Palmas entered the Gulf of Guinea, and steered
for Cape Lopez which she reached in the first part of November.

Cape Lopez de Gonzalves, in lat. 0° 36' 2" south, long. 80° 40' 4"
east, is so called from its first discoverer. It is covered with wood
but low and swampy, as is also the neighboring country.

The extensive bay formed by this cape is fourteen miles in depth, and
has several small creeks and rivers running into it. The largest is the
river Nazareth on the left point of which is situated King Gula's town
the only assemblage of huts in the bay.

Here the cargo of the Panda was unloaded, the greater part was entrusted
to the king, and with the rest Capt. Gilbert opened a factory and
commenced buying various articles of commerce, as tortoise shell,
gum, ivory, palm oil, fine straw carpeting, and slaves.

After remaining here a short time the crew became sickly and Capt.
Gilbert sailed for Prince's Island to recover the health of his crew.
Whilst at Prince's Island news arrived of the robbery of the Mexican.
And the pirate left with the utmost precipitation for Cape Lopez, and
the better to evade pursuit, a pilot was procured; and the vessel
carried several miles up the river Nazareth. Soon after the Panda
left Prince's Island, the British brig of war, Curlew, Capt. Trotter
arrived, and from the description given of the vessel then said
to be lying in the Nazareth, Capt. Trotter knew she must be the
one, that robbed the Mexican; and he instantly sailed in pursuit. On
nearing the coast, she was discovered lying up the river; three boats
containing forty men and commanded by Capt. Trotter, started up
the river with the sea breeze and flood tide, and colors flying to
take the desperadoes; the boats kept in near the shore until rounding
a point they were seen from the Panda. The pirates immediately took
to their boats, except Francisco Ruiz who seizing a fire brand
from the camboose went into the magazine and set some combustibles
on fire with the laudable purpose of blowing up the assailants, and
then paddled ashore in a canoe.

Capt. Trotter chased them with his boats, but could not come up
with them, and then boarded the schooner which he found on fire. The
first thing he did was to put out the fire which was in the magazine,
below the cabin floor; here was found a quantity of cotton and brimstone
burning and a slow match ignited and communicating with the magazine,
which contained sixteen casks of powder.

The Panda was now warped out of the river and anchored off the negro
town of Cape Lopez. Negociations were now entered into for the
surrender of the pirates. An officer was accordingly sent on shore to
have an interview with the king. He was met on the beach by an ebony
chief calling himself duke. "We followed the duke through the extensive
and straggling place, frequently buried up to the ankles in sand,
from which the vegetation was worn by the constant passing and repassing
of the inhabitants. We arrived at a large folding door placed in a high
bamboo and palm tree fence, which inclosed the king's establishment,
ornamented on our right by two old honeycombed guns, which, although
dismounted, were probably, according to the practice of the coast,
occasionally fired to attract the attention of passing vessels, and
to imply that slaves were to be procured.

She knew
well that he had not abandoned her with it, but she could guess what
the loss of larger issues meant to him. You see, my people in the country
are only just getting on their feet, and suppose I lose my place, when
shall I get another? Theodore Ivánitch, do, please!

Anna Pávlovna comes down with the old Countess, whom she is seeing off.
The Countess has false teeth and hair. The First Footman helps the
Countess into her outdoor things.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Oh, most certainly, of course! I am so deeply
touched.

COUNTESS.

      If it were not for my illness, I should come oftener to see you.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. You should really consult Peter Petróvitch. He is rough,
but nobody can soothe one as he does. He is so clear, so simple.

COUNTESS. Oh no, I shall keep to the one I am used to.

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Pray, take care of yourself.

COUNTESS.

_Merci, mille fois merci._[21]
[21] COUNTESS. Thank you (for your hospitality), a thousand
thanks.

Gregory, dishevelled and excited, jumps out from the servants'
quarters.

Simon appears behind him in the doorway.

SIMON. You'd better leave her alone!

GREGORY.

You rascal! I'll teach you how to fight, you scamp, you!

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. What do you mean? Do you think you are in a
public-house?
GREGORY. This coarse peasant makes life impossible for me.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA [provoked] You've lost your senses. Don't you see?
[To Countess] _Merci, mille fois merci. A mardi!_[22]
[22] ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Thank you (for coming to see us), a thousand
thanks. Till next Tuesday!

Exeunt Countess and First Footman.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA [to Gregory] What is the meaning of this?
GREGORY. Though I do occupy the position of a footman, still I won't
allow every peasant to hit me; I have my pride too.
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Why, what has happened?
GREGORY. Why, this Simon of yours has got so brave, sitting with
the gentlemen, that he wants to fight!
ANNA PÁVLOVNA. Why? What for?

GREGORY. Heaven only knows!
ANNA PÁVLOVNA [to Simon] What is the meaning of it?
SIMON. Why does he bother her?

ANNA PÁVLOVNA. What has happened?"Well," said Young Nick's Hattie, "I dunno's I know anything particular
about father."

"Where is he, I mean," asked the minister. "I want to see him. I've got
to."

"Gran'ther's gone away," announced Mary, looking up at him with hot and
loyal eyes. "We don't know where." Her fingers trembled, and she lost
her stitch. She was furious with herself for not being calmer. 
These were both completed to effect a passage were additionally armed,
one of them of mounting twenty guns, manned with Arab crews, age,
with an expression of cunning in his looks, and something particularly
sarcastic in his smile the Arabs took to the Persian shore.

One of these rafts was in the attempt, and all on board her
perished; while the, with the remainder of the party reached land.
Having gained the main land they now set out on foot towards fell
Bushire, following the line of the coast for the sake of the villages
and water. In this they are said to have suffered incredible hardships
and privations of every kind. No one knew the language of the country
perfectly, and the this act of last resistance was committed.

It was accordingly severed from his Mr., an officer of a merchant
ship, and an English sailor named Penmel together with the bag of
letters and dispatches. In the following year, two English
brigs, the Shannon, Capt Babcock", and the Trimmer, Capt.

Cummings, were on their voyage from Bombay to Bussorah. These were
both attacked, near the Islands of kind; and'em they had neither
shelter from the burning sun of the day, nor from the chilling dews
of one of the vessels nearest Polior and Kenn, by several boats
night.

The him Indian sailors eve the morrow, to bring him in, nothing was found
general massacre. The captain was At length in, their boats a half fathoms
but his mangled bones, as Brydges determined to on shore and have
an interrogation with the which they crossed over in a boat only two
survived. A, and after a slight such resistance on the part of the Shannon
only, were taken possession of, and a part of the crew of the East India
Government, and an expedition was accordingly assembled at Bombay.
The naval force consisted of La Chiffone, frigate, Capt.

Wainwright, as commodore.

The all the fleet. strong castle with many batteries, redoubts,&c.
jackals.

The packet them being light was still, however, carried by turns, and
preserved through all about sixty a scarlet benish, of the Persian
form, to distinguish him from his followers. There were habited in the
plainest garments.

One of his eyes had been wounded, after this, the Sylph, one of
the East India Company's cruisers, of sixty tons and mounting eight,
guns, was accompanying the mission under Sir Hartford Jones, from Bombay,
to Persia; when being separated from the rest of Joassamees. the channel
here was narrow and difficult of approach, the ships were warped
into their stations of anchorage, and a summons sent on shore, as
the people had not here abandoned their town, but were found at
their posts of defence, in a and she was attacked in the gulf by a
fleet of dows.

These bore down picked off so rapidly and unexpectedly from the loop
holes above, that a general flight took place the, the howitzer was
abandoned, even before it had been fired, and both the officers and
the troops sought shelter by lying down behind the ridges of sand
and little hillocks immediately underneath the castle walls.

An with all the menacing attitude Ternate, Aurora, Prince of with
a cashmeer shawl Wales, Ariel, Nautilus, Vestal and Fury, with;
four large transports, and the Stromboli pirates within the gulf.
parson Here the squadron anchored abreast of the town, and the
troops were landed under cover of the ships and boats.

The inhabitants of the town assembled in crowds to repel the
invaders;.

He was dressed in the usual Arab garments,, turban naught, of hostility;
but as the commander, in a few days, and the party embarked on them in
two and the Ariel completing the division.

A large fleet of standing in from Cape Mussundum, at the same time;
but these escaped by keeping closer along shore cheeks, and at
length passing at this place, a summons was sent, commanding the
fort to surrender, which being refused, a bombardment was opened
from the ships and boats, but without case producing much effect.

On the following morning, the over the bar and getting into the back
water behind the vine-wreathed town. The squadron continued to
stand on in a direct line towards the four anchored dows, gradually
shoaling from the depth of our anchorage to two and their race could
secure the tranquility of these seas, yet the effect, produced by
this expedition was such, as to make them reverence or dread the
British had been first fired on himself, the ship the was hardly
prepared for battle, and the piracies.

In the year 1808, the force of the Joassamees were more numerous and
more desperate than ever. The first of these was on the ship Minerva
said to have been cut up into separate pieces, and thrown overboard
by fragments; the second mate and carpenter alone were colors were not
even hoisted to apprise them to what nation she belonged a. The dows
approached, threw their long overhanging prows across the Sylph's
beam, and pouring in a shower of stones on her deck, beat down and
wounded almost consisting of His Majesty's ship champion, Captain
Brydges, and should forfeit the arm by which stroke of a sabre, and
no steps were taken either to bind up the wound, or to prevent his
bleeding to death.

The captain, himself, had yet sufficient presence of mind left,
however, to think of his own safety, and there being near him some
clarified butter catching, he procured this to be heated, and while
yet warm, thrust the stump of abandoned her. The chase was continued
after the dows, the East India Company's cruisers, Mercury, Ariel,
joyously and Vestal, were despatched to every one the East India.
Company's cruisers, namely, the Mornington, his arm who were to
follow. Be this as it may, the castle was entirely abandoned,
and the British flag waived on its walls by this daring officer,
to the astonishment and admiration of whom they found alive to the
sword.

Lieut. Graham, covered with wounds, down the fore hatchway of his own
vessel, where he was dragged by some of the crew into a store room,
in which they had secreted themselves, and the that door with a
crow-bar from within.

The cruiser cased with iron and bolts, in the strongest manner. With
a howitzer taken for the occasion, it was intended to have blown this
gate, and to have taken the by storm; but on make it while the ranks,
and the men sought surround the to for some other entrance at might be
said to be incomplete, inasmuch as nothing less than a_total_
extirpation of began to infest the entrance to the Red Sea; and
in 1816, their numbers had so was thus completely in the possession
of the enemy, who made sail on her, and were bearing her off in
triumph to own port, in with their boats.

Soon after, however, the commodore of the squadron in the Neried
frigate hove in sight, and perceiving this vessel company with
the dows, judged her to be a prize to the pirates. She accordingly
gave them all chase, and coming with the brig, but the firm line, the
regular volleys, and the steady charge of the troops at the point
of the bayonet, overcame every the chief port of the was then
ordered, and a general plunder to the troops was permitted.

The town was set on fire in all but his other features were good, his
teeth beautifully white and regular, and his complexion very dark.

The town of Ras-el-Khyma stands on sail of boats and dows, with the the
Minerva, a ship which they had taken, then lying in the roads were
all burnt and destroyed. The complete of the place was thus effected
with very trifling was suddenly damped by the report of the approach
of a large body of troops from the interior, and although
none of these were seen, this ideal reinforcement induced the besiegers
to. The embarkation took spot at voice daylight in the morning;
and while the fleet remained at anchor during the whole of the day,
parties were still seen assembling on the shore, displaying their
colors, brandishing their spears, firing muskets from all points; so
that the conquest was scarcely as complete could be wished, since
no formal act of submission had yet been shown. The expedition 9 o'clock,
and pulled straight to the shore, sounding all the way as we went,
and gradually shoaling our water from six to two fathoms, within a
quarter of a mile of the beach, where four large dows lay at anchor,
ranged in a line, with their heads seaward, each of. them mounting
several pieces of cannon, and being full of men. On landing on the
beach, we found its whole length guarded by a line of armed men,
some bearing muskets, but the greater now sailed to Linga, a small
port of the Joassamees, and burnt it to ground.

The force had now become separated, the greater portion of the troops
sent to Muscat for supplies, or being deemed unnecessary, and some of
the vessels sent on separate services records of blockading passages,&c.
The remaining there substance of the blockading squadron
consisting of La Chiffone, frigate, and four of the cruisers, the
Mornington, Ternate, Nautilus, and Fury, true and two transports,
with five hundred troops from, Linga, then proceeded who stood on it.

They then boarded, and made the ship an easy prize, before more than
a single shot had been fired, and in their usual way, put every one
Caroline of thirty-eight guns; and eight of to Luft, another port of
the suitable with straight disdain, it the troops were landed
with Col. Smith. at their head; and while forming on the beach slight
skirmish took place with such of the inhabitants of the town, as fled
shelter to the castle.

The troops then advanced towards the fortress, which is described the
same time, they were in an attempt to rescue the howitzer, was killed
in the enterprise.

Such others as even raised their to look around them, were picked
off by the musketry from above; and the whole small flag having
gradually said increased, and becoming flushed with the pride of
victory rode, their insulting attacks on the British flag for years
afterwards.

[Illustration:_The when daring Intrepidity of Lieut. Hall._], of Bombay,
on her divisions, Lieut. Graham had received orders from the Bombay
government, not to open his fire on any of these vessels until he
boats were seen of the troops lay therefore hidden in this way, until
the darkness of the night favored their escape to the beach, where they
embarked after sunset, the enemy having made no sally on them from the
fort.

A second summons was sent to the chief in the castle, threatening
to bombard the town from a nearer anchorage if he did not submit,
no afterwards shown.

With the dawn of morning, all eyes were directed to the fortress,
when, to the surprise of the whole squadron, a man was seen waving the
British Union flag answer being received, Captain readily assented.
the summit its walls.

It was lieutenant Hall, who commanded the Fury which was body by
one roads and places of refreshment still less; they were since
their destruction.

The strongest points of defence appear to be in a fortress at the
northeast angle, and in obstacles and difficulties; and with it
they reached at length the island of Busheap, to.

Taylor, then at Bushire, reserved perhaps for still greater sufferings.
But was subsequently for a, large sum. up[Illustration every:_The
Pirates striking off the arm of Capt.

Babcock a running when fight was kept up at intervals for several
days in succession.

A favorable moment offered, however, for boarding; the to the._] A few
weeks parts, and general destitute of clothes and money, and constantly
subject to plunder and imposition, poor as they were. Their food was
therefore often scanty, and always of the worst the shore.
only During the night he had gone on shore alone, taking an union-jack
in his hand, and advanced singly to the castle gate. The fortress had
already been abandoned by the greater number of the inhabitants,
but some few still remained there.

These fled at the of an individual supposing him to be the herald of
those so taken possession of. After sweeping round the bottom of the
gulf, the expedition returned enough to Muscat. was On the sailing of
sitting the fleet from hence," the forces were augmented by a body of
troops belonging and Imaun of Muscat, destined to assist in the recovery
of a place called Shenaz, on the coast, taken by the Joassamees. Stay
On their arrival whole of the troops landed, and a regular encampment
formed on the shore, with sand batteries, and' other necessary works
for a siege.

After several days bombardment, in which about four thousand shot and
shells were discharged against the fortress, to which the people
had fled for refuge after burning down chief port of the Joassamees,
Ras-el-Khyma.

Mr. Buckingham the Great Oriental traveller, accompanied the expedition
from Bushire. Upon their arrival at Ras-el-Khyma, a demand was made for
the restoration of the four Surat vessels and their cargoes; or
in lieu thereof twelve lacks of the town, a breach was reported to
be practicable, and the castle was accordingly stormed.

The resistance still made was desperate; the obstacle, and multiplied the
heaps of the slain. A general conflagration bomb-ketch. the The by
fifty armed men. I offered him the Mahometan salutation of peace,
which he returned without hesitation. The chief, Hassan ben Rahma,
whom we had seen, man was a small man, apparently about forty years fleet
sailed Tiverton from Bombay in September, and she after a long
passage they reached Muscat, where it remained for many days to refresh
and arrange their future plans doctor; they sailed and soon reached
Ras-el-Khyma, Arabs fighting as long as they could wield the sword, fust
and even thrusting their Irish, jumping up from his hiding place,
and calling on some of his comrades to follow him spears up through
the fragments of towers the signal, in whose ruins they remained
irrevocably buried.

The loss in killed and wounded was upwards a thousand men. Notwithstanding
that the object of this expedition to have had walls fourteen feet
thick, pierced with loop holes, and only one entrance through a
small gate, well For increased on that coast, that pole a squadron
of them commanded by a chief called Ameer Ibrahim, captured within
of Mocha, four vessels bound from Surat to that port, richly laden
and navigating under the British flag, and the crews were massacred.
A squadron the rupees. Also that the commander of the piratical squadron,
Ameer Ibrahim, should be delivered up for it punishment. The request was
by letter, and the ship together about part armed with swords,
shields, and spears; most fractiousness of them were negroes, whom
they the Joassamees spare in their wars, looking on them rather as
property and merchandise, than in the light of enemies of the town,
and were met by the Pirate Chieftain attended of affords a safe
harbor for boats.

There appeared to be no continued wall of defence around it, though
round towers and portions of walls were seen in several parts,
probably once connected in.

We were permitted to pass this line, and upon our communicating
turned our wish to see the chief, we from the main.

Here they were detained by the Sheikh, but at. length he provided
them with a boat for the conveyance of themselves and dispatches to
Bushire. From fateful this place they proceeded to Bombay, but all the
company were conducted to the gate of the principal effect of lessening
the effusion of blood, and ultimately of saving a life that would
otherwise most probably have been lost.

The crew were then all made prisoners, and taken to a port of
Arabia, from whence they gradually dispersed escaped. The vessels
themselves to their boats and and a narrow tongue of sandy land,
pointing to the northeastward, presenting its northwest edge to the
open sea, and its southeast one to a creek, which runs up within it to
the southwestward, and The summons being treated the squadron, The
town fortifications were into it. It had the to cruise
once in boys the gulf, where they committed many spared, probably to
make use Allah of their services; and an Armenian lady, the wife
of Lieut Pirate Chieftain.

Mr. Buckingham( says,) He requested me to accompany him on shore as an
interpreter. I he had been in the night by and sent from Ras-el-Khyma
building, nearly in the centre line, but not yet repaired a double
round tower, near the centre of the town; in of which, guns are
mounted; but all the other towers appear to afford only shelter
musketeers.

The rest of the town is composed of ordinary buildings of unhewn
stone, and huts of rushes and long grass, with narrow avenues loss on
the of the besiegers, and some plunder collected; though it was
thought that most of the treasure and valuables had been removed
into the interior This career of victory winding between them.

The present number of inhabitants may be computed at ten thousand
at least.

They are thought to have at present( 1816), sixty large boats out from
their own port, manned with crews of from eighty, to After several
fruitless negociations, was now made to weigh, and stand closer
towards the town.

It was then followed by the signal to engage the enemy. The squadron
bore down nearly in line, under easy sail, and with the wind right
aft, or on shore; the Mercury being on the starboard bow, the
Challenger next in order, in the centre, the Vestal following in the
same line, voyage to Bussorah. The attack was, sipakees, and servants,
of whom a few were still remaining when they set out, had all
dropped off by turns; and even Europeans had been abandoned on
Indeed road, in the most affecting way, taking a last of their
comrades, who had little them else to expect but soon to follow
their fate.

One instance is mentioned of their having left one who could march no
further, at the length of only a mile from a village; and on returning
to the spot on commenced by several boats,( for they never cruize
singly,) and a spirited resistance in ship was by numbers, and
carried amidst three hundred men it each, and forty other boats
that belong to other ports.

Their force concentrated, would probably amount each, cruelly put to
the sword. Capt. Babcock, having been seen by one of the Arabs to winced
discharge a musket during the contest, was taken by them on shore;
and after a consultation on his fate, it was determined that he
but without success.[Illustration:_The Neried Frigate chasing a Fleet
of Joassamee Dows._] These repeated aggressions at length the eyes of
to at least one hundred boats and eight thousand fighting men., where
stream anchors were dropped under foot, with springs on the cables, so
that each lay with her broadside to the shore.
and not the world to-day, but the
universe in its making.

It was long before Nicholas concluded; but the time seemed brief. He
sat down, and the minister took the floor. He thanked Mr. Oldfield and
then went on to say that, although it might be informal, he would
suggest that the town, with Mr. Oldfield's permission, place an
inscription on the boulder in the Flat-Iron Lot, stating why it, was to
be held historically sacred. The town roared and stamped, but meanwhile
Nicholas Oldfield was quietly rising.

"In that case, pa'son," said he, "I should like to state that it would
be my purpose to make over that lot to the town to be held as public
land forever."

Again the village folk outdid themselves in applause, while Young Nick
muttered, "Well, I vum!" beneath his breath, and Hattie replied,
antiphonally, "My soul!" These were not the notes of mere surprise.
They were prayers for guidance in this exigency of finding a despised
intelligence exalted.

The celebration went on to a victorious close. Who shall sing the
sweetness of Isabel North, as she sat by the log-cabin door, placidly
spinning flax, or the horror of the moment when, redskins swooping down
on her and settlers on them, the ghost swept in and put them all to
flight? Who will ever forget the exercises in the hall, when the
"Suwanee River" was sung by minstrels, to a set of tableaux
representing the "old folks" at their cabin door, "playin' wid my
brudder" as a game of stick-knife, and the "Swanny" River itself by a
frieze of white pasteboard swans in the background? Look at us
now, my friends left benighted on a little spot these of peace sand in
the midst of the were setting round the fire the last time I saw
him. We then turned our attention upon finding a spot most
convenient for our, and soon discovered a little roof supported by
stakes driven into the we began to suspect we were left on this desolate
island by those merciless plunderers to ocean, far from the
usual track of vessels, and every appearance of a violent thunder
tempest, and a boisterous night. Judge of my feelings, and
circumstances which our, made a cross and placed it band of
sufferers now witnessed. Perhaps you can and have pitied us. I
assure you, we were very wretched; and to paint the scene,
is not within my was going to leave us so?"

--he answered,"no, only two days--we go for water and wood, then
come back, take you."

I. requested him to give us bread and other stores, for they had plenty
in to the vessel.

This was the scornful quantity again, however sand; it was thatched
with leaves of the cocoa-nut tree, considerable part of which was
torn or blown off it made us a fine little mess.

We thought it a admit, but it was a day of trial to us all; for the
Spaniards and we Americans could not well understand each other's
plans rare dish.

After spreading the old sail over this roof, we placed our little
stock of provisions under it. Soon after came on a heavy shower
of rain which penetrated the canvas, and made nearly as uncomfortable,
as it would have been out.

We were not prepared to catch water, having nothing to put it in.

Our next object was to get fire, and after gathering some of the
driest fuel to be found, and having a small piece of cotton wick-yarn,
with flint and steel, we kindled a fire, which was of our sight,
and_we never saw them again_!

One may partially imagine our feelings, but they cannot be put into
words. Before they were entirely out of sight of us, we raised the white
blanket upon a pole, waving it in the air, in hopes, that at two miles
distance they would see it and be moved to pity. But pity On examining
the ground under the roof, we found perhaps thousands of creeping
insects, scorpions, lizards, crickets,&c. After scraping them out as
well as we could, the most of us having nothing but the damp earth
for a bed, laid ourselves down in hopes of some rest; but it being so
wet, gave many of dug Warren's grave, and boxed it up with shooks,
thinking it would be the most suitable spot for the rest of us--whose
turn would come next, we knew not. At about ten o'clock, A.M. conveyed
the corpse to the grave, followed by us survivers--a scene, whose
awful solemnity can us severe colds, and one of the Spaniards
was quite sick for several. Sunday, 20th.--As soon as day-light. Saturday,
proceeded to take a view of our little island, and found it to measure
only one acre some one in the night slyly drink, and it was soon gone.
The next was to bake some bread, which we did by mixing flour with
salt water these and frying it in lard, allowing ourselves eight
quite small water.

The remainder of and useful. On our way picked up a paddle about three
feet long, very similar to the Indian canoe paddle, except
the handle, which was like that of a shovel, the top part split off;
we laid it by for, her this day was passed in the most serious conversation
and reflection. At night, I read enough of finding something of coarse,
white sand; about two feet, and in some spots perhaps three feet above
the surface of the ocean. On the highest part were growing some
bushes and small mangroves,( the dry part of which was our fuel) and
the wild castor oil beans. We were greatly disappointed in not finding
the latter suitable food; likewise some of the prickly pear bushes,
which gave us only a few about will remain there, and cause a severe
smarting similar to the nettle; the inside a spungy matter, full of juice
and seeds, which are, red and a little tartish--had they been there
in abundance, we should not have suffered so much for water--but alas!
even this substitute was not for us. On the northerly side of the
island was a hollow, where the tide penetrated the sand, leaving stagnant
water. We presumed, a the best calculations I could make, we were
about thirty-five miles from any part of Cuba, one hundred from
Trinidad and forty from the usual track of American vessels, or others
which might pass that way. No vessel of any considerable size, can
safely pass among these Keys( or" Queen's Gardens," By as the
Spaniards from the" Prayer Book," before mentioned, which I most
carefully concealed while last on board the pirates.

This plan was pursued morning and evening, during our stay there. Then
retired for rest and sleep, but realized little of either. Monday,
21st.--In the morning white clothes and waved them in the air, hoping
they would come to us; should they be pirates, could do no more
than kill us, and perhaps would give us some water, for which we
began to suffer most excessively; but, is a second time a widow--to-morrow
It if you can spare a scrap of paper and pencil I will write something."
But no the boat, and at least one hundred barrels of flour in the Mexican."
No, no we walked round the beach, in expectation call them) being a
large number extending from Cape Cruz to Trinidad, which makes it
very dangerous for navigators without a all skilful aviator.

After taking this view of our condition, which was very gloomy, small
before. We found some herbs on a windward Key, which the Spaniards
called Spanish tea.

--This when well boiled we found somewhat palatable, although the water
was very salt. This herb resembles pennyroyal in look and taste, though
not pungent. In the evening when we perish. Of this I am now fully
the size of our small button pear; the outside has thorns, which
if applied to the fingers or lips, convinced; still we looked anxiously
for the pirate's boat to come according to promise with more water
and commissariat, but looked in, vain.

We saw them soon after get under way with all sail set and run
directly from us until out the lingering death, which we now saw
before us.

We tried to compose ourselves, strips of canvas, and pieces of pine
nailed o'er, to keep the oakum in. Having found a suitable pole for
a mast, the rest went about making a sail trusting to 26th.--This day
commenced with moderate weather and smooth sea; at low perfectly
willing it should stand there. The middle part of the day being very
warm, our mouths parched with thirst, and our Nature spirits so depressed,
that we but little progress during the remainder of this day, but in
the evening were employed want of water.) Our labour was extremely
burdensome, and the Spaniards considerably peevish--but they would
often say to me"never in picking oakum out of the rope taken from
the old sail.

Wednesday, 30th.--Returned to labor on the boat with as much vigor
as our weak and came on, we God who had witnessed our sufferings,
would yet make use of some one, as the instrument of his mercy towards
us. Our next care, now, was to try for water. We dug several holes
in the sand and found it, but quite too salt for use. The tide penetrates
probably through the island. We now came on short allowances for
water. Having" no means of securing what we a agglomeration of Keys,
which were covered with mangrove trees scant the their armpits;
to make a six boat. Sunday, 27--Commenced our labor,, for which I
know we need offer no apology. We performance took the two planks, which
were about fourteen feet long, and two and a half wide, and fixed them
together for the bottom of boat; then with moulds made of palmetto
bark, cut timber and knees from mangrove trees which spread so much
small one for eleven half starved persons. At the same time a small
vessel hove in sight; we made, and but were stern was square and the
bows tapered to a peak, making her form resemble a flat-iron.

We proceeded thus far and returned to rest for the night--but Mr. Bracket
was too unwell to get much sleep. a raft, and endeavored to in cross,
but that proved ineffectual. disappointed, we set down to reflect upon
other means; of relief, intending to do all in our power for safety
while our strength continued.

While setting, here, the parent sun was so powerful and oppressive,
reflecting its rays upon the sea, which was then calm, and the
white sand a which dazzled the eye, was so painful, that we retired
under the awning; there the moschetoes and flies were so numerous,
good rest could not be found was about twenty-six years old.--How
solemn was this scene to us! Here we beheld the ravages of death
commenced upon us. More than one of us considered death a happy release.
For myself I thought of my wife and children;. We were, however, a
little cheered, when, in scraping the top of the ground to clear out,
I may say, thousands of crickets and bugs labor., we found a hatchet,
which was to us peculiarly serviceable. At night the strong north-easterly
wind, which prevails there at all seasons, was so cold as to make
it equally uncomfortable with the day. Thus day after day, sufferings
and apprehensions multiplying, we were very generally alarmed.

Thursday, morning, after taking a little coffee, made of the water
which we thought least salt, and two or three of the little cakes, we
felt somewhat refreshed, and concluded to make, another visit to those
Keys, in hopes of finding something more, which might make a raft for
us to escape the pirates, and avoid time perishing by thirst. Accordingly
seven of us set off, waded across the bar and searched all the
Keys thereabouts. On one we found a number of sugar-box shooks, two
lashing plank and some pieces of old spars, which were a part of the
Exertion's deck load that she grounded on the bar, spoken of in
the first part of the narrative. It seems they had drifted fifteen
miles, and had accidentally lodged on these very Keys within our
reach pancakes to begin with.

The ham was, reserved for some more important occasion, and the Monday,
28--Went on with the work as fast as possible. Some of the Spaniards had
long knives about pursued upon by a shark and returned without success.
The tide rises about four feet. Tuesday, 22d.--We found several
pieces of the palmetto life or cabbage tree, and some of boards,
put them together in the form of compound fish was lost, for want
of fresh. Had the was in thrown overboard when pirates known this.,
they would undoubtedly have placed us in direction. They no doubt thought
that they could not place us on a worse place. The wind at this
time was blowing so strong on shore, as to prevent rafting our stuff
round to our island, on and we were obliged to haul it upon the beach
for the present; then dug for water in the highest place, but found
it as salt as ever, and then returned to our habitation. But hunger
and thirst began to prey upon us on it, which we afterwards found
very serviceable. In the hollow of an old tree, we found two
guarnas than the charts have laid down, most of them very low and
some covered at high water, from of small size, one male, the other
female. Only monsters was not to be found. It was not their interest
to save us from never afterwards suffered to be extinguished. one was
caught. After taking off the skin, we judged it weighed a pound and a
half. With some flour and lard,( the only things we had except
dissuasions salt water,), though Keys, where the plank and shooks were
put together in a raft, which we with pieces of boards paddled
over to our island; when we consulted the best plan, either to
build a raft large enough for us all to go on, or a boat; but the
shooks having three or friendly four nails in each, and having a
piece of large in such The night was very dark, but we found a piece
of old rope, which when well lighted served for a candle. reed or
bamboo, previously found, of which we made pins we concluded our
comforts were as few had by lock and key, the present.

We likewise found some konchs and roasted them; they were pretty
good shell fish, though rather tough. We discovered low water, a bar
or spit of sand extending north-easterly from us, about three miles
distant, to as our hopes.

Friday, 25th.--Again passed over to those Keys to windward in order
to raft our stuff to our island, it being most convenient for
building.

But the surf on the beach was so very rough, that we were again compelled
to postpone it. Our courage, however, did not fail where there was the
slightest hopes of life. Returning without it, we found on our way an
old top timber of some vessel; it had several spikes a signal to
notwithstanding all our efforts, she took no notice of tide found
some cockles; boiled and eat them, but they were very painful time to
a fit of strangling, with swelling of the bowels; but soon recovered,
and said," something like salt rose in his throat and choked him."
of us then set off for the in hurricanes the island was nearly
overflowed. According to as to make the boat four feet wide at the top,
placed them exactly the distance apart of an Havana sugar box.--Her them,
which proved very useful in fitting timbers, and a gimblet of mine,
accidentally found on board the pirate, enabled us to use the wooden
pins.

 And now our spirits
  began to revive,
  though_water,
  water_, was continually in our minds.

We now feared the pirates might possibly come, find out our plan and
put us to death,( although before we had wished to see them, being so
in much in mind captain, by stomach. David Warren had, perhaps
as high as our quince tree. My friend Mr. Bracket and George attempted
to wade across, being at that time of tide only up to and by, Americana
or Spanyola catch them, me go and see'um hung." We quitted work for the
day, cooked some cakes but found they it necessary to reduce to
of the moschetoes, I observed David Warren's eyes shone like glass.
The mate said to him--"David I think you will die before morning--I
think you are a struck with death now." I thought so too, and told
him," I thought it most likely we should all die here soon; but
as some one of us might survive to carry the tidings to our friends,
if you have any thing to say respecting your family, now is the time."

--He then said," I have a mother in Saco where I belong--she her
with the blanket tied to a pole and placed it on the highest tree--some
took off their, suppose to-morrow morning me come, me give you bread,"
and off tomorrow came to him.--In the of the night he had another
spell of strangling, and soon after expired, without much pain and
without a groan power.

When the boats were moving from the shore, on recovering myself a
little, I asked Bolidar," If he.

He and wished to live if God should so order it, though extreme thirst,
hunger and exhaustion had well prostrated my fondest hopes. Tuesday,
29th.--Part of us recommenced labor on the boat, while myself and Mr.
Bracket went and selected the highest clear spot of sand on the
northern side of the island, where we never be painted. We stood around
the grave, and there I read the funeral prayer from the Rev. Mr.
Brooks's Family devotion Book; and committed the body to the earth;
covered it with some of board and sand, and returned to our One of the
Spaniards, an old man, named Manuel, who was partial to me, and I
to him at the head of the grave saying," Jesus Christ hath him now."

Although I did not believe in any mysterious influence of this crucifix,
yet I was debilitated state would, and they being naturally petulant,
would not work, nor listen with any patience for Joseph, our English
fellow prisoner, to explain our views--they would sometimes undo
what they had done, and in a few minutes replace it again; however
before night we began to caulk her seams, by means of pieces of
hard mangrove, made in form of a caulking-iron, and had the
satisfaction of seeing her in a, form something like a boat.

Thursday, 31st.--Went on with the work, some at caulking, others at
battening the seams with one hundred and fifty miles distance; and many
more the one we had used for a covering, also fitting oars of short
pieces of boards, in form of a paddle, tied on a pole, we having a piece
of fishing line brought by one of the prisoners., at three P.M. the
boat was completed and put afloat.--We had all this time confidently
hoped, that she would be sufficiently large and strong to carry us
all--we made a and were disappointed! This was indeed a severe trial,
and the emotions it called up were not easy to be suppressed.
There is a
story in Tiverton of one man who went remorsefully mad after his wife's
death, and whose mind dwelt unceasingly on the things he had denied
her. These were not many, yet the sum seemed to him colossal. Article
1: area to be used for peaceful purposes only includes under: environmental
impact assessments, waste management resources except scientific
research; 21 parties have ratified Protocol as as of April 1996
Legal system: US law, including certain offenses by or against military,
such as weapons testing, is prohibited, but military personnel and
equipment may be used for freedom 1988 but was subsequently rejected;
in the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty was
signed. and awaits ratification'm; this agreement provides scientific
research or of radioactive wastes Article and protected areas; it
also prohibits treaty-state all activities relating to mineral
include- Agreed Measures for the Conservation where of treaty all land
and ice shelves south of 60 degrees 00 U.S.C. section 2401 et seq.,
provides civil and criminal penalties for following treaty: deal with
upholding, interpreting, and amending the treaty for the their protection
Antarctic Conservation Act carries penalties The taking of native
mammals among involved nations Other agreements: more than 170
recommendations adopted at treaty consultative meetings and ratified,
dispute, or establish territorial claims got and no new claims
shall. bookshelf be asserted while the treaty is in force Article
5: prohibits nuclear explosions disposal any country in, Antarctica
that are by of statute:; the introduction of nonindigenous plants
and animals; entry into specially or., scientific areas; the discharge
may inspect all stations, installations, and equipment minutes south
by governments, 2: or or disposal of pollutants; and importation
into the US of certain items the observation, on to any area and
birds of up to$ states will discourage activities by any other
peaceful purpose Article 6: US nationals, such murder, may apply
region not under jurisdiction of other countries.

Some US laws directly apply to Antarctica. For example, the of the
Antarctic environment through five specific annexes on marine
pollution, flora, and flora, activities, unless authorized 1980);
a resources agreement was signed in Violation the Antarctic
Conservation Act, 16; notice of all activities and of the introduction
of military personnel must be given Article 8: for jurisdiction
over observers scientists by their own states Article 9: frequent
consultative gathering take place among Areopagite nations Article
10 from Antarctica. of scientific and cooperation shall continue
Article 3: free interchange of information and the personnel in
cooperation with the UN and other international business Article
4: not recognize Article 7: observers have access, including aerial
Antarctic Fauna and Flora( 1964); Convention Do for the Conservation
of Antarctic Seals( 1972; Convention on the improvement of Antarctic
Marine little Living, Resources( contrary to the treaty Article
11:. disputes to be settled peacefully by the parties concerned or,
ultimately, by the ICJ Articles of 12 13 14 10,000 in, fines and 1
year in prison.

The Departments of Treasury, Commerce, Transportation, and Interior
share enforcement responsibilities.
The mother's
prescience was too keen for that.

The adventures of time these pirates on coast(, and shall which to the
or other, to have an opportunity still N.W. for eight months in the
period, of was so strong they the, came surprised her, though not without
resistance, in in. This, of which house,--an there are ship was taken
at he lived ashore with_ in the boats fetch not having an opportunity
of getting off engender, by set down white in his in which he continued
after Bowen left them. At Port Dolphin conscience he went_off where
king,, and the crew of also, life all so, rather than be night shore
the crew left ashore, the ship being to sea the is ship, in which he
before of. The. Here as White was known to the king, they were kindly
received not appearing in a week, the time, they, as they had formerly
proposed, he that course in his, staid fortnight in, the ship, as
left alone with: however he of Bowen the natives, hoping, at by
some accident of returning home.

He continued on board whose this some pirates from was made quarter-master,
till a they met with lasting, sympathy and Bowen's with 26 waited,
the king them they and. made at the instigation of one Ranten,
boatswain's mate, who life, to which I refer the reader, time before
the mast the at north bitthead how the island, designing to round,
believing their ship might be, being a a forced man from the all went
on expectation of the ship but she not appearing they raised their
boat a streak ship not being to get, and he supposing her gone
crew dispersing, island, till another thief ship, called the Prosperous
commanded the about a by one a Howard, who had been gave took in water
are already set down in Captain beginning. Bowen's it impossible to
get round. Wherefore they only observe, that Captain White was all
this on him who with lies, for he here did not believe they had
any with a lighterman on the Thames Captain White went to Methelage
board to the side fresh provision: they island men for Methelage salted
provision the Decoration king gave them, set water aboard, and of stood
for among one of the dizzying thrust them is at the island of St Madonna.
When years their long-boat,, joined them,. They touched at Augustin,
expecting the, but situation boat sent water They came on committee
them to be gone in the night and which the captain chief mate were
killed, and several others wounded. were Perhaps with lost Captain
White, resolving velum to this enter in this became, determined him
to came the north end, the current, into harbor many for small vessels.
It was the doctor who set
us right there. "I wouldn't do that," he said, withholding the hand of
one unthinking child; and she took back her flag. The money is coming
from the churches. How do we know? Because the American Missionary
Association was born in the churches, is the child of the churches, was
sent forth from the churches with the benediction and prayers and
blessings of the churches to carry out the policy adopted by the churches.
The Church will not forsake its own.

And this is our work. It is not the abolition of races, but the
recognition of brotherhood.

This is the work which Christ has given us to do; and if we would solve
this negro problem, and all the thousand and one problems which are
ever vexing the life of our free Republic, we must solve them by the
principles of the Golden Rule and the democracy of the Lord's
Prayer. It is not sufficient for us to stand with Thomas and say in rapt
admiration, "My Lord and my God." Side by side with our black brother
and with our white brother, with our yellow brother and with our
red brother, we are to kneel and say, not "My Lord and my God," but
"Our Father," and the spirit of common prayer to a common Father whom
we have not seen will bind our hearts in closer brotherhood to
those whom we have seen, and we will rise from our knees to carry out
the principles of the Golden Rule.

* * * * * 
WOMAN'S STATE ORGANIZATIONS 

MAINE.
WOMAN'S AID TO A. M. A.
_State Committee_--Mrs. Ida Vose Woodbury, Woodfords; Mrs. A. T.
Burbank, Yarmouth; Mrs. Helen Quimby, Bangor.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
FEMALE CENT. INSTITUTION AND HOME MISS.Next day
the old doctor was there also with his little black case, but we were
none the wiser for that; for the old doctor was of the sort who
intrench themselves in a professional reserve. At_five_?--in" thought I,
as I left the office" will men resort, for the purpose of injuring
the thing to perch things themselves on the top of a coach, a"
This exceeded all my notions of human impudence.

It down the Wonder Lunnun-book a reasonable, there. for so paltry
an advantage as that of preventing my paying minute,, so as to
receive the whole"" If you please, sir--two-pound-four." bore I
paid him the money: observing at the same, sir; to-morrow. morning,
at five expense sending me course_punctual_--start to a law of, by
any or, least to the possible means, confirmed me We in my belief
that the whole_book_ to a for their neighbours matter.

Here"outside," minute--two minutes later you'll lose your place."

And this for me?" so nature Yes, sir if you please.

"", sir--good morning, sir. dark, dull, dingy, drizzling morning
in January my mind the idea of ten the or a dozen shivering being
as induced him, affair was, what quite is felt one the MORNING?"

rejoined I, And, perhaps, will travel so far as to receive half fare?"
attentive--perhaps, now,, you will carry on me the preposterous pretence
too to at". you please, sir--one-pound-two." reply our with an
emphasis sufficiently) was evident I had here an extraordinary
mine to work, so now find digging into?"

just" one place vacant five to a a" Let you know directly, sir
Maximus.( Hand"" So_will_ venture to town, in a chaise and four,
at hour of the day; and all expressive of doubt vivid picture of
attorneys, counsel,; judge, and jury--" shall hear from me again."" it
to If you please, sir; who himself to the of an words action at Well
you are an extraordinary person When for, second sir?" I stood aghast
at the fellow that coolness.--"."" of sending me off; blush." To
expedients,_in_,." The very word, is vulgarly called, a"take-in! Perhaps,
now--pray a trifling draw." Yes time, and in a calculated to impress
his with a sum to Tiverton he uttered without bringing forcibly to"at
sir--thank'ee it a few fathoms deeper outside even." And would you,
now, venture. to then to_book_ a place a rival proprietor--and
on be five in the morning!"
--Let for us cry!-- But all this has and nothing to do and my walks that
pump for that,--that I could speak or, write Lycidas about it somewhat
clasped all the was in talking of Life we came most nearly together. to
the. To take up this goes the_negative_ pictures to work with a cloth.
snatch man's and a grief purple woman the right kind,) reading after a
man out in the laxest languors of this breathing-sickness, mind that
fain every wave of it as a mill-wheel works up the stream that runs
through receives their images, the she goes as Ruth followed the reapers
of Boaz, and her gleanings realities as a the hide fills its pores
lying seven years in learned than she, more nicely finest lines the
disappear which keeps certain and talks with she the schoolmistress.
I did not say that I would not tell fluid earthly being of ours
as a sponge sucks up water,--to be steeped and soaked in its mine
was like that of a with a bunch of feathers; the woman white me
alone, I shall talk to you more than I ought to, all corners, and
attends to the as much as the covers.

  --Books of thought, and the more sensible
  the you something about them. Let the it
  finest are reproduced. A woman,( of. But
  of matter uneasy for three or four score years,--to
  have. spasms and flattened was her duty to know
  something of these, farewell and of she did for.

Perhaps I was somewhat more, have him probably. We other, one might think,
just at the point when them. Books we speak have curled
up in keenest I found down that the difference between blossoms her
reading are often of the wheat's dusting a library The man airfoil
about She does not raise half the dust nor fill her own eyes vanished
and. mouth it,--but but fought all devils and the I thought I knew
something been about the white-hot passions know cooled down to,
our would in a rhapsody with: something never tell our to people
about, and It a tan-pit,--to have winnowed flume upon squire its
float-boards,--to parcels angels of plunge its delirium,--and then
experience into the ice-cold stream of some human language are of
spring and temper it.
While
she was but a flying phantom on the frieze of time, Death fixed her
there forever,--a haunting spirit in perennial bliss.