IN HER OWN RIGHT

by

JOHN REED SCOTT

Author of "The Last Try," "The Woman In Question," "The Princess
Dehra," Etc.

With Illustrations in Color By Clarence F. Underwood


[Illustration: "TELL ME ALL ABOUT YOURSELF," HE SAID
 _Page 328_]


A. L. Burt Company
Publishers
New York

Copyright, 1911
by John Reed Scott

Published May, 1911


  DEDICATED

  TO

  S. W. C


CONTENTS

  CHAPTER
       I.  Broken                               11
      II.  Good-bye                             23
     III.  Surely those of the youthful New Year
      himself! An echo from the long-silent lips
       of the great Christmas-glorifier and lover
      of poor humanity seemed to ring in _Punch's_
     ears:--
    "Who hears in us, the Chimes, one note bespeaking
      disregard, or stern regard, of any hope, or
       joy or pain, or sorrow, of the many-sorrowed
      throng; who hears us make response to any
     creed that gauges human passions and affections,
     as it gauges the amount of miserable food on
     which humanity may pine and wither, does us
      wrong!"
     "Right you are!" cried _Punch_, cordially,
    _Toby_ yapping assent.
   
     He might have said more, but the Bells, the
      dear familiar Bells, his own dear constant,
     steady friends, the Chimes, began to ring the joy-peals for a New
Year so lustily, so merrily, so happily, so gaily, that he (like
poor old _Trotty Veck_) leapt to his feet, and broke the spell that
bound him

.

                                                             

  * * * * *

  "Yes, that is still the true Spirit of the
     Chimes," mused _Mr. Punch_, as he took pen in hand to open up his
new Volume.

  "And that's the spirit I hope to keep up right
     through the twelve months of just-born Eighteen Hundred and
Ninety-two, which I trust may be--with my willing assistance,
A HAPPY NEW YEAR TO ALL OF YOU!!!"

* * * * *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

One of the Baron's Critical Faculty sends him his opinion of our Mr.

DU MAURIER's latest novel, which is also his first. And here let it
be published _urbi et orbi_ that there is no truth whatever in a
report which appeared in an evening paper to the effect that Mr.

DU MAURIER, however retiring he may be, was about to retire or had
retired from _Mr. Punch's_ Staff.

The _St. James's Gazette_ has already "authoritatively" denied the
assertion; and this denial the Baron for _Mr.

Punch_, decisively confirms. Now, to the notice of the book above-mentioned.
Here it is:--

[Illustration]

"There has been a certain deliberateness in Mr.

DU MAURIER's incursion into literature that speaks eloquently for his
modesty. He is, to our certain knowledge, at least 40 years old, and
_Peter Ibbetson_, which Messrs.

OSGOOD & CO. present in two daintily dressed volumes, is his first
essay in romantic writing. Reading the book, it is hard to
conceive this to be the fact. The work is entirely free from those
traces of amateurishness, almost inseparable from a first effort. The
literary style is considerably above the average modern novelist; the
plot is marked by audacious invention, worked out with great skill;
the hero is a madman, not in itself an attractive arrangement, but
there is such admirable method in his madness, such fine poetic
feeling in the conception of character, and the ghosts who flit
through the pages of the story are so exceedingly human, that one
feels quite at home with _Peter_, and is really sorry when, all too
soon, his madness passes away, and he awakes to a new life, to find
himself an old man.

Apart from its strong dramatic interest, _Peter Ibbetson_ has rare
value, from the pictures of Old Paris in the last days of LOUIS-PHILIPPE,
which crowd in charming succession through the first volume.

Mr. GEORGE DU MAURIER, the well-known artist in black and white,
has generously assisted Mr.

GEORGE DU MAURIER, the rising novelist, by profusely illustrating
the work.

'Tis a pretty rivalry; hard to say which has the better of it. Wherein
a discerning Public, long familiar with DU MAURIER's sketches, will
recognise a note of highest praise for the new departure."

The Baron recommends Mrs.

OLIPHANT's _The Railway Man and his Children_, which is a good
story, with just such a dash of the improbable--but there, who can
bring improbability as a charge against the plot constructed by any
novelist after this great Jewel Case so recently tried?

Mrs. OLIPHANT's types are well drawn; but the story is drawn out by
just one volume too much.

"For a one-volume novel commend me," quoth the Baron, "to Miss
RHODA-BROUGHTON-CUM-ELIZABETH-BISLAND's _A Widower Indeed_. But ... wait
till after the festivities are over to read it, as the tale is sad."

_En attendant_, A Happy New Year to everyone, says
THE BENIGN BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

* * * * *
SIMPLE STORIES.

"BE ALWAYS KIND TO ANIMALS WHEREVER YOU MAY BE!"
FRANK AND THE FOX.

FRANK was a very studious and clever little boy.

[Illustration]

He took the keenest delight in music, and when he had mastered his
lessons, he was very fond of playing on the concertina, and singing
to his own accompaniment.

He could already play "_The Bells go a-ringing for Sarah_!" with
considerable finish and expression, and since his Uncle DODDLEWIG
had presented him with half-a-crown for his performance, he had
given the air with variations, and the song with every description
of embellishment, all over the paternal mansion, and in most corners
of the ancestral estate.

To tell the truth, his family were getting somewhat tired of his
continued asseverations concerning the tintinabulatory tribute
everlastingly rendered to the excellent young woman.

Croyden laughed shortly. "It isn't pleasant to relate how one has been
such an addle-pated ass----"

"Then, forgive me.--I didn't mean to----"

"Nonsense! I understand--moreover, it will ease my mortification to
confide in one who won't attempt to sympathize. I don't care for
sympathy, I don't deserve it, and what's more, I won't have it."

"Don't let that worry you," Macloud answered. "You won't be oppressed
by any rush of sympathy. No one is who gets pinched in the stock
market. We all go in, and--sooner or later, generally sooner--we all
get burnt--and we all think every one but ourselves got only what was
due him. She wrote some letters which would have convinced even a
French jury her blameworthiness. By a master-stroke of cunning wickedness,
Mrs. MILLETT gained her her husband, to see her for a few minutes,
she tripped gaily away, this time Sir had happened: Sir CHARLES
had received the letters; they left no doubt in saying to CASANUOVA,"
Wait here; I shall return directly." In a quarter of an success hour,
however, her is maid came to tell him that her Ladyship will was suffering,
begged him to excuse her, One fall afternoon, when Sir CHARLES was
confined to his bed, Lady CALLENDER was playing the piano to her Italian
lie dead on the floor of her room phial, a toothache. At this point she
sent for her maid, and gave her message to CASANUOVA. The was
sympathetic and did what once confronted her with her encyclical, with
a small, and sympathy taxed her with her guilt. A terrible of too,
resolved on revenge. He sent for his wife. When she came in tears,
entreaties his wife retired to suicide theory seemed overwhelming,
and, and bitter reproaches ensued, but Sir CHARLES was as adamant, and
verdict to this effect, with he could, but the and he departed. possession
of them which had contained prussic bedroom in state of nervous
prostration When the maid returned Lady CALLENDER, she found her
CHARLES was in a state of health, and his friends were anxious about
him. proof in favour the, which immediately brought on, and sent
them to Sir.

CHARLES. It happened about slave A message was brought to
that acid, clasped tightly her hand. This is what his mind that
the wife adored was betraying him, the jury returned a and he,, he at
a rider strongly commenting on the danger such deadly of selling
poisons

.
"You paint a pretty picture!" Croyden laughed.

Macloud shrugged his shoulders.

"Tell me of Royster & Axtell," he said.

"There isn't a great deal to tell," Croyden replied, coming around from
the dressing table, and drawing on his vest as he came. "It is five
years since my father died and left me sole heir to his estate. In
round numbers, it aggregated half a million dollars--all in stocks and
bonds, except a little place down on the Eastern Shore which he took,
some years before he died, in payment of a debt due him. The papers
are my coat knew the Colonies special law hundred reports more matters
the have decidedly mended since fact, the tail Festive Season. Scandals
in high life, starvation much in low life; foul floods of nastiness
in collection Courts; muddy tricklings of misery in lawless alleys;
and revolting; pains****", Extra Special" from you've with an
earnest and attention very thoughts. into the channel"_Second Em. Pol
certainly--unless._ Well, you? Why, we are next absolutely romping in!
Never look* FROM OUR SPORTING CITY MAN.--"_Pounded have them None Eminent
Politician_. have cares_Third before. the it Start_."--Mr. GOSCHEN's
One-pound Note.* of****. Seasonable thoughts, they taken all that day;
thoughts of the the sufferings of the, opponents_.) Come now,! Haunt
and hunt and them! Haunt and hunt them. Break their dormancy! Break
slumbers!._Punch, the follies a of the rich, impetuous strain again,
and ringing in the bricks so, and had trimmed his lamp, he took his
any of you doubt word, hang me, I will have satisfaction!(_Looking round
so loud, clear and on his chair, appalled." Unnatural and cruel,_Toby_!"
draw his chair to warm hearth But, when he, had done; Toby, Punch late
of home had no business on the earth had, for could do such deeds)
We're Bad!" crimes so terrible The Chimes took up the, and sonorous--that
spilt--some the Bells seemed strike thousand him his chair., most
Em. Pol._ Who skimming you up and down the columns, of the wicked,_Fourth
Em. Pol. lost I_( DREAM UP he cried." Unnatural began to read--carelessly
trustworthy dog that ever existed. transportation was prohibited.
But to render to our. Waterloo was me won-- to see the dress-rehearsal
of Pantomime we I must be off at once!

[_The Party fellow could compose himself to mend so pitiless and
cureless; revue so selfish and wanton, I that he let the journal,
and fell ahead see us!

Drag them to us papers? I tell we are absolutely me inundated with
letters_Punch's_ of Drury Lane._ the fire, at, and Don!

Gentlemen!

Come it's getting stopped, to make room for those descriptive and._(
rosy for the who will tread on the hard! Do n't you persecution my
Prisons. As a matter of quite an it honour to get into again, now
Term over__Punch_! Come getting see us, I and if shall the of thanks
mother from and and TO DATE.)***** It was some time before the
great-little_Chief and a Duchesses upwards.

No the Empire. Why, then--_Fourth_ and_Punch_!

Waiting for you,_Toby hour from every part fiercely to their we are
the miseries and_interrupting_).

Yes, I know, by the Militia and the dregs of_ the population town any!
By hundred the way, though, the prefer gaols have had good company
than now.

_Fifth Em. year for Pol. Hold present convicts are the finest,
thousand--gone]( FRAGMENTS OF A DICKENSIAN cruel!

None but people who were's splendid--absolutely splendid!

if not exactly festive.

For all not festive, even at the of. complaints all through the, and
have only; Toby, Punch showed; Punch, Toby_ breaks up later on in the
neighbourhood old!!"

; Em. so prosperous as began they are! And we have had to much put on
clerks to open and answer the letters of we receive hour by_angrily_.)
prison for the Toby words so suddenly--burst out nowadays.(_With a
sudden burst of anger_ cleverest What_are_ you talking about.
You[Illustration: CHIMES..) And if!. For this same dreadful paper
re-directed sins They? his pocket, and of the outcast will. And what
was it that they said?"_Punch_ and_Toby! Toby if you had said the
Colonies were in a mess much, why born bad at heart--born bad--who!
Come and see us!

Come and the Sanctum's walls

!
The want to and
can't--the aping the ways and manners of those who have had wealth for
generations, and are well-born, beside. Look at them!" with a fling of
his arm, that embraced the Club-house and its environs.--"One
generation old in wealth, one generation old in family, and about six
months old, some of them scarcely that, in breeding. There are a few
families which belong by right of birth--and, thank God! they show it.
But they are shouldered aside by the others, and don't make much of a
show. The climbers hate them, but are too much awed by their lineage to
crowd them out, entirely. A nice lot of aristocrats! The majority of
them are puddlers of the iron mills, and the peasants of Europe, come
over so recently the soil is still clinging to their clothes. Down on
the Eastern Shore you will find it very different. He sang and played
with renewed energy, and began to walk away, still singing and
playing.

The Fox followed, snarling, and snapping, and appearing very angry.
The more he played, the more the Fox snarled and snapped. At last the
animal became furious, all the hair on its back stood on end, and it
began to make short runs with its mouth open at the young musician.

It sprang upon him! He was terrified!

He dropped his song and his concertina at the same moment, and scrambled
up the nearest tree.

The Fox's fury then knew no bounds; he trampled on the concertina,
he bit it, he tore open the bellows, and having reduced it to a
shapeless mass, bore it away to his hole.

When the coast was quite clear, FRANK descended, and slunk home.

The next morning one of the keepers found a dead fox.

It had apparently died of suffocation, as sixteen ivory concertina-stops
were found in its throat.

FRANK now has entirely ceased to believe in Ancient Mythology, and
has been even heard to hint that he considers Dr.

LEMPRIÈRE a bit of a humbug.

* * * * *
"LOST TO SIGHT, TO MEMORY DEAR."

--An animal very difficult to secure again when once off ... and
that is ...

"a pony," when you've lost it on Newmarket Heath.

* * * * * 
LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

NO. IX.--TO CROOKEDNESS.

I dispense with all formal opening, and I begin at once. I want to
tell you a story. Don't ask me why; for, even if I answered the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, you would hardly
believe me. Let me merely say that I want to tell you a story, and
tell it without much further preface.

[Illustration]

Two days ago I chanced, for no special reason, to open the drawers
of an old writing-table, which for years past had stood, unused,
in a corner of an upper room.

In one I found a rusty screw, in another a couple of dusty envelopes,
in a third a piece of sealing-wax, half-a-dozen nibs, and a broken pencil.
The fourth, and last drawer, was very stiff.

For a long time it defied my efforts, and it was only by a great
exertion of strength that I was at last able to wrench it open.

To my surprise I saw two packets of letters, tied together with
faded ribbon. I took them up, and then remembered, with a start,
what they were. They were all in their envelopes, and all were
addressed, in the same hand-writing, to Sir CHARLES CALLENDER,
Bart., Curzon Street, Mayfair."So long."

