Transcribed from the 1894 Chapman and Hall edition of "Christmas Stories"
by David Price, email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


THE SEVEN POOR TRAVELLERS--IN THREE CHAPTERS


CHAPTER I--IN THE OLD CITY OF ROCHESTER


Strictly speaking, there were only six Poor Travellers; but, being a
Traveller myself, though an idle one, and being withal as poor as I hope
to be, I brought the number up to seven.  This word of explanation is due
at once, for what says the inscription over the quaint old door?

   RICHARD WATTS, Esq.
   by his Will, dated 22 Aug. 1579,
   founded this Charity
   for Six poor Travellers,
   who not being ROGUES, or PROCTORS,
   May receive gratis for one Night,
   Lodging, Entertainment,
   and Fourpence each.

It was in the ancient little city of Rochester in Kent, of all the good
days in the year upon a Christmas-eve, that I stood reading this
inscription over the quaint old door in question.  I had been wandering
about the neighbouring Cathedral, and had seen the tomb of Richard Watts,
with the effigy of worthy Master Richard starting out of it like a ship's
figure-head; and I had felt that I could do no less, as I gave the Verger
his fee, than inquire the way to Watts's Charity.  The way being very
short and very plain, I had come prosperously to the inscription and the
quaint old door.

"Now," said I to myself, as I looked at the knocker, "I know I am not a
Proctor; I wonder whether I am a Rogue!"

Upon the whole, though Conscience reproduced two or three pretty faces
which might have had smaller attraction for a moral Goliath than they had
had for me, who am but a Tom Thumb in that way, I came to the conclusion
that I was not a Rogue.  So, beginning to regard the establishment as in
some sort my property, bequeathed to me and divers co-legatees, share and
share alike, by the Worshipful Master Richard Watts, I stepped backward
into the road to survey my inheritance.

I found it to be a clean white house, of a staid and venerable air, with
the quaint old door already three times mentioned (an arched door),
choice little long low lattice-windows, and a roof of three gables.  The
silent High Street of Rochester is full of gables, with old beams and
timbers carved into strange faces.  It is oddly garnished with a queer
old clock that projects over the pavement out of a grave red-brick
building, as if Time carried on business there, and hung out his sign.
Sooth to say, he did an active stroke of work in Rochester, in the old
days of the Romans, and the Saxons, and the Normans; and down to the
times of King John, when the rugged castle--I will not undertake to say
how many hundreds of years old then--was abandoned to the centuries of
weather which have so defaced the dark apertures in its walls, that the
ruin looks as if the rooks and daws had pecked its eyes out.

I was very well pleased, both with my property and its situation.  While
I was yet surveying it with growing content, I espied, at one of the
upper lattices which stood open, a decent body, of a wholesome matronly
appearance, whose eyes I caught inquiringly addressed to mine.  They said
so plainly, "Do you wish to see the house?" that I answered aloud, "Yes,
if you please."  And within a minute the old door opened, and I bent my
head, and went down two steps into the entry.

"This," said the matronly presence, ushering me into a low room on the
right, "is where the Travellers sit by the fire, and cook what bits of
suppers they buy with their fourpences."

"O!  Then they have no Entertainment?" said I.  For the inscription over
the outer door was still running in my head, and I was mentally
repeating, in a kind of tune, "Lodging, entertainment, and fourpence
each."

"They have a fire provided for 'em," returned the matron--a mighty civil
person, not, as I could make out, overpaid; "and these cooking utensils.
And this what's painted on a board is the rules for their behaviour.  They
have their fourpences when they get their tickets from the steward over
the way,--for I don't admit 'em myself, they must get their tickets
first,--and sometimes one buys a rasher of bacon, and another a herring,
and another a pound of potatoes, or what not.  Sometimes two or three of
'em will club their fourpences together, and make a supper that way.  But
not much of anything is to be got for fourpence, at present, when
provisions is so dear."

"True indeed," I remarked.  I had been looking about the room, admiring
its snug fireside at the upper end, its glimpse of the street through the
low mullioned window, and its beams overhead.  "It is very comfortable,"
said I.

"Ill-conwenient," observed the matronly presence.

I liked to hear her say so; for it showed a commendable anxiety to
execute in no niggardly spirit the intentions of Master Richard Watts.
She helped him in his great literary work--_Lezione della Lingua
Toscana_--perhaps the only serious occupation she ever undertook.

An intimacy, with such a similarity of tastes, ripened naturally into a
romantic attachment--certainly quite in accord with the tenets of Platonic
humanism, and perhaps something more! That Duke Paolo was conversant
with the relations of his wife with his cousin was well known, but he
made no complaint, and took no action to check them.

Likely enough he had that "easy-going contempt of everything and everybody"
which Niccolo Macchiavelli has stigmatised as the prevailing tone of
Italian society.

Probably the sad deaths of Princess Maria and Duchess Lucrezia d'Este, and
the tragic events in the Maremma of 1562, affected Isabella greatly, but
they only tended to increase her husband's detestation for everything
Florentine.

No doubt he judged that Cosimo's hand slew both Maria and Garzia--might
it not strike Isabella or himself!

When a man, in an autocratic position such as that made by Cosimo I.,
yields to unguarded passion, reason and right alike are at a discount.
Isabella's husband had taken the measure of her father--alas, that
he was destined to follow his example!

For Isabella a new interest was created when, in 1564, Bianca Buonaventuri
became "_La cosa di Francesco_,"--her brother. She, so to speak, clasped
the lovely young Venetian to her bosom. She entered into the romance of
the elopement, and of her brother's infatuation, with all her
heart. Isabella de' Medici and Bianca Cappello-Buonaventuri became inseparable
friends.

During Duchess Eleanora's life the gaieties and the follies of the
court had been kept within something like bounds, but she had hardly
been laid in her tomb within San Lorenzo than Duke Cosimo gave reins
to his passions, and the Palazzo Pitti and the various Medicean
villas became the scenes of unbridled lust and depravity.

In 1564 the Duke deputed most of his sovereign power to his son Francesco,
who became Regent and virtual ruler of Tuscany.

The grave scandals which distracted Florentine society began to raise
up in the minds of the people violent antipathy for a Sovereign whose
private example was so abominable, and whose discharge of public duties
was so basely marked by turpitude.

A revolution of a drastic description seemed to be inevitable, and,
really, Cosimo had no other course than abdication.

The Florentine rendering and observance of Platonism favoured illicit
connections between the sexes. The palaces of the nobles and of the
wealthy merchants were nothing more or less than harems. The manners
and traditions of the Orient took root, not only in Florence, but in all
the other Italian States, and the normal strictness and restrictions of
lawful married life had everywhere all but disappeared. Every household,
not only of the noble but also of the middle class, had among its
number a _cicisbeo_, or two or more,--"unofficial wives"--we may call
them, possessed of almost equal rights and position as the lawful spouses.

* * * * *
The great event of the year 1562 was the marriage of Prince Francesco
and the Archduchess Giovanna d'Austria. Quite certainly the Duke
and Duchess of Bracciano were among the notable personages present at the
nuptials. Indeed that year the Duke spent more of his time than usual
in Florence, and was very busy buying and rebuilding the Villa Cerreto
Guidi, and laying out the park and gardens--the former for the pursuit
of deer-hunting, the latter by way of rivalry to Pratolino--Francesco and
Bianca's plaisance.

The Grand Duchess Giovanna was something like her predecessor, Duchess
Eleanora, a serious-minded sort of woman, with no pretensions
to beauty or ability, not at all the sort of sovereign for that
gay and dissolute court.

The _beau monde_ took themselves off to the Orte Oricellari--to pay
their devotions to the lovely Venetian mistress of their Sovereign;
and to Poggio Baroncelli--where Duchess Isabella reigned as queen
of fashion and frivolity.

Cosimo and Cammilla de' Martelli--whom he married secretly and took
away to his favourite Villa del Castello--lived in strict retreat,
rarely came into Florence, and kept no sort of state.

At the same time two sons of his were sources of keen anxiety.

Ferdinando, born 1549, was now wearing the Cardinal's red hat, which
hapless young Garzia's hunting-knife had caused to fall from his brother
Giovanni's head in the Maremma. Ambitious, jealous, but, perhaps, less
depraved than his father, the Cardinal de' Medici made no secret of
his dislike of his brother Francesco and his _innamorata_, Bianca
Buonaventuri. He became a thorn in his father's and brother's sides
on account of his extortionate and presumptuous demands. His young
stepmother--only two years his senior--favoured his pretensions,
and so brought trouble upon herself, as we shall see later on.

Piero, Cosimo's youngest legitimate son, was but a boy of fourteen when
his father married his second wife. Of course she was far too young and
inexperienced to be of any use in guiding his growth and tastes.

The Court was thus divided: the two parties were headed respectively by the
Grand Duchess Giovanna, the titular Grand Duchess-dowager,--so to
call Cammilla,--with the Cardinal de' Medici; and by Bianca Cappello
di Pietro Buonaventuri and Duchess Isabella of Bracciano.

With respect to the latter coterie, its influence was vastly augmented by
the assassination of Pietro Buonaventuri in 1572. Duchess Isabella gave
her whole heart's support to the beauteous young widow. She wrote to her
the most affectionate letters, in one of which, if not in more, she
says she loves Bianca "more than sister," and bids her retain her
position as "the loving helper of my brother."
Bianca heartily returned her "more than a sister's" affection, and she
repeatedly spoke of Duchess Isabella in her letters to her cousins in
Venice. "I had," she says, for example, on 17th July 1574, "the illustrious
Domina Isabella to dine with me in my garden, and with her came my good
friends her brother Don Piero and his young wife...." Beautiful,
accomplished, and light-hearted, Isabella and Bianca were the dearest and
most constant of companions. They lived apparently only for admiration
and adulation, but the Duchess' position was infinitely more free and
unconventional than that of the Venetian: the latter lived for one
man's love alone--Francesco--Isabella dispensed her favours where she
willed!

Duke Paolo grew suspicious of his wife's liberty of action. His protests,
at first couched in deprecatory language, were met with girlish
_insouciance_; but, when he began to complain arrogantly, Isabella
replied with spirit and determination. His jealous reprimands
were met by like charges and, truth to tell, there was not a pin to choose
between the two.

The Grand Duke Cosimo before his death in 1574, and the Grand Duke
Francesco, were alike irritated by Bracciano's cool, calculating
conduct; and both upheld Isabella against her husband's ill-humour and
harsh judgments. Duke Paolo, however, kept his own counsel, and by means
of spies discovered that Troilo d'Orsini's monthly reports were
at least open to doubt as to their truthfulness with respect to his
wife's conduct in private. Matters, however, drifted--he was too intent
upon his own affairs in Rome and elsewhere to disturb rudely the state of
things at Poggio Baroncelli.

His suspicions at length were brusquely confirmed, and the uneasy peace
of evil deeds was broken by portentous news from Florence. A courier in
his pay arrived one evening, in July 1576, breathless, at the Bracciano
Palace, with the intelligence that the trusty chamberlain had stabbed
to the heart an attractive young page, Lelio Torello, attached to
the household of the Grand Duke; and had, moreover, at once taken
flight precipitately from the Villa!

Bracciano knew exactly what this purported--young Torello was a lover
of his wife as well as Troilo d'Orsini! Without a moment's delay, he
started off for Florence to tax the Duchess with unfaithfulness. At the
Porta Romana he was staggered by the news which greeted him--Piero de'
Medici had killed his wife, Eleanora de Garzia de Toledo, at Cafaggiuolo!

He tarried not to pay his respects to the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess at
the Palazzo Pitti hard by, but galloped off post-haste to his wife's
villa, and, unannounced, surprised Isabella in the midst of
preparations for a sudden journey!

If, as some maintained, she meant to follow her fleeing lover, Troilo,
at all events she was determined to seek the Court of France, and throw
herself upon the sympathy of Queen Caterina, her kinswoman, and crave her
protection for herself and her babe!

Several letters had already passed between the two illustrious women.
Isabella, on her part, says: "I have asked pardon of God for my sins, and
have resolved to let things take their course"; but she implores Catherine
to protect her little son. In the last of these letters she writes:--"Let
your Majesty think of this letter as the last words of a person bound
to you by the ties of blood, and consider them as the confidence of one
who is about to die, resigned and repentant, who otherwise could only
end her life in despair and desperation."
The Duke judged his wife guilty, before she had offered any
explanation of the tragic doings at the Villa, and his impulse was to
dishonour her before her whole household. The spirit of duplicity,
which had haunted their married life, during eighteen random years of
misunderstanding, distaste and estrangement, still ruled them
both--but Bracciano restrained his passion for a while.

He noted the preparations for hasty flight--indicative of Isabella's
guilt--but, what more than all else enraged him almost beyond the
power of self-control, was the cry of an infant within Isabella's
apartments!

That child was not his. Whose was it?

Isabella met her husband perfectly unabashed, and, if she expected
an immediate explosion, she was agreeably though somewhat misgivingly
surprised at his cordial greeting.

   He asked her where she was
   going, and
   suggested that they should go away together. Isabella of course
   prevaricated--truth
   is a negative quality between those who doubt
   each other!
   Then, to her great surprise, Bracciano began to express himself
   in terms at once tender and apologetic.
   

"The faults, and faults there are, have been all on my side," he said,
"but I wish to alter all this and begin a new course, happy, and
well-regulated. I suggest that bygones be bygones, and that we mutually
agree to bury the past. Let us, Isabella, begin an entirely new course
of life and live henceforth only for each other." His fair words
were matched by the mild expression he contrived to put into his face,
and, although the Duchess distrusted them, or at least her sense of
hearing, she met his advances handsomely.

The day passed over pleasantly, the _rapprochement_ seemed to be
real and sincere, and when the Duke invited her to accompany him
upon a hunting expedition to Cerreto Guidi, on the morrow, his wife
expressed her pleasure and acquiescence.

He himself set off early in the day, it was 10th July, and he asked
Isabella to follow with her maidens leisurely.

Whether from innate distrustfulness, or presage of coming evil, the
Duchess put off her journey till quite late, and only arrived there as
night was coming on. At the entrance to the Villa the Duke met her, holding
in a leash two splendid hare-hounds, which he begged her to accept and use
on the morrow.

The dinner-party was numerous and merry, but not one of the company
was gayer than the host.

Isabella sat beside him, and he offered her many lover-like attentions.
Everybody remarked these excellent and unusual relations between
the Duke and Duchess, and wondered greatly thereat.
After a very pleasant musical evening the company separated for the night,
and the Duke, passing into his own bedchamber, invited his wife to enter
with him.

Was it instinct or was it second sight, which caused Isabella's steps to
falter on the threshold? She trembled as her husband held aside the arras,
turned deadly pale, and, retreating for a moment, she whispered to her
lady-in-waiting, Donna Lucrezia de' Frescobaldi--"Shall I enter, or
shall I not?" Bracciano's voice again was raised in gentle persuasiveness,
and taking her by her hand, clammy cold as it was, he asked her,
laughingly, why she held back.

She bade Donna Lucrezia good-night very tremulously, and then the curtain
fell, and Isabella was alone with her lord. The room was in its usual
state, but truth to tell, she had not lain there for many a long night,
and, as the Duke continued to talk affectionately, and to prepare for
bed, she began to feel less alarm. Without more ado she flung herself into
a deep lounging-chair and began to meditate and to chatter.

Seating himself by her side, Bracciano began to caress her hands
and to fondle her in his arms, and when he noted that she had given
herself entirely to his will and pleasure, as an amorous, faithful
wife once more, he swiftly reached down for a _corda di collo_--a
horse's halter--which he had placed behind the chair.

Implanting an impassioned kiss upon those lovely lips, which had so long
yearned for a husband's embrace, he adroitly threw the rope round his
wife's neck, and pulling it taut in a wild access of rage, he strangled
her--holding on until her struggles ceased!

Then he cast her fair body from him, and spurned it with his
foot, as though it had been some foul and loathsome thing. Thus perished,
in her thirty-sixth year, Isabella de' Medici, wife of Paolo Giordano
d'Orsini--as sinful as she was lovely, but much more sinned against
than sinning after all.

Before the dawn of day the Duke, accompanied by one attendant only, rode
into Florence, and left at the Palazzo Pitti a heartless message for the
Grand Duke, requesting him to despatch the brethren of the _Misericordia_
to Cerreto Guidi, where was "something which required their attention"--then
he continued his course straight on to Rome.

Florence was aghast at this horror, but the Grand Duke Francesco
kept his own counsel, and no pursuit followed the murderer.

An official announcement was made to the effect that "The Duchess of
Bracciano died in a fit of apoplexy." This nobody for a moment believed:
whether her brother was privy to the deed is perhaps open to doubt, for
he and Isabella were devoted to one another.

It has been said that it was due to Bianca Buonaventuri's persuasion
that the Grand Duke took no steps to vindicate his sister's honour
or dishonour.

The punishment of assassins mostly leads to further assassinations, and
the "_La cosa di Francesco_" had reason to fear for her own life, seeing
that her husband and her two dearest friends in Florence had been done
brutally to death.

What became of the child, whose cries the Duke of Bracciano had heard,
at Villa Poggio Baroncelli, no one seems to have recorded, nor are there
any statements extant as to who his father actually was--a boy he
was anyhow, and, though his name is uncertain, he was spoken of by the
Duchess as "_il mio becchino_," "my little kid."
We may father him as we like--and at least three claimants for that honour
are known--Troilo d'Orsini, the Duke's cousin and the Duchess'
companion; Lelio Torello, the comely young _Calcio_ player, and the
favourite page of the Grand Duke Francesco; and, be it said in terms
of doubt and horror, the Grand Duke Cosimo!

If the latter, then this "Tragedy" is the culmination of all the abominable
orgies which have blackened the character of the greatest tyrant and
monster of his epoch!

Another story affects the career of the Chamberlain Troilo d'Orsini. He
sought sanctuary in France and was befriended by Queen Catherine, to
whom his mistress, the unhappy Duchess of Bracciano, had commended "the
little kid." Whether he accepted the rôle of father to save the
fame of the defunct Grand Duke is not known, but the unfortunate, if
guilty, fugitive was stabbed in the streets of Paris by bravoes
sent after him in the pay of the Duke of Bracciano.

CHAPTER V

FRANCESCO--"_Il Virtuoso_"
BIANCA CAPPELLO--"_La Figlia di Venezia_"
PELLEGRINA--"_La Bella Bianchina_"

_True Lovers--and False_

"We'll have none of her among our dead!"
These were the brutal words of Cardinal Ferdinando de' Medici, at the
villa of Poggio a Caiano on the morning of 21st October 1587. They
formed the curt reply his Eminence vouchsafed to Bishop Abbioso of Ravenna,
"her" confessor.

The bishop, looking to favours from Ferdinando, who succeeded Francesco as
third Grand Duke of Tuscany, sent overnight, the following message
to his new Sovereign:

"This moment at 8 p.m. Her Most Serene Highness the Grand Duchess
passed to another life.

The present messenger awaits your Highness' orders as to the disposal
of the body."
"The body!"
Yes, it was "the body" of as loving a woman as ever lived in Florence.
She had been the most faithful of wives, the most attractive of consorts,
and one of the most generous of benefactresses. It was "the body" of as
unselfish a sister-in-law as any man, high or low, ever had, who strove
her utmost to propitiate, screen, and honour the self-seeking brother
of her husband. It was "the body" of Bianca Cappello!

Ferdinando had, for years, plotted her death, and now he had
accomplished his dastardly design--a design which also made him the
murderer of his brother, Francesco de' Medici.
To be sure, the double tragedy was adjudged no tragedy by such as
waited for favours from the coming ruler, and the mysteriously
sudden deaths of Francesco de' Medici and his wife Bianca were
assigned to natural causes by well-paid dependants upon Ferdinando's
bounty and favour. The bloodguiltiness of fratricidal Ferdinando
was well whitewashed by his courtiers, and historians have painted
him in colours that ill befit his character. So is history written
ofttimes and again.
Pope Sixtus VI. had all the gruesome circumstances placed before
him, and whilst he was too weak or too cunning--it matters not
which--to charge the princely murderer with his deeds, he tacitly
accepted the finding of his commission of inquiry:--"Ferdinando de'
Medici, Cardinal-Priest of San Giorgio, Grand Duke of Tuscany,
poisoned his brother and his sister at Poggio a Caiano.""Come in!" cried the Captain, when he had knocked with his knuckles at
the door.  Private Richard Doubledick pulled off his cap, took a stride
forward, and felt very conscious that he stood in the light of the dark,
bright eyes.

There was a silent pause.  Private Richard Doubledick had put the straw
in his mouth, and was gradually doubling it up into his windpipe and
choking himself.

"Doubledick," said the Captain, "do you know where you are going to?"

"To the Devil, sir?" faltered Doubledick.

"Yes," returned the Captain.  "And very fast."

Private Richard Doubledick turned the straw of the Black hole in his
month, and made a miserable salute of acquiescence.

"Doubledick," said the Captain, "since I entered his Majesty's service, a
boy of seventeen, I have been pained to see many men of promise going
that road; but I have never been so pained to see a man make the shameful
journey as I have been, ever since you joined the regiment, to see you."

Private Richard Doubledick began to find a film stealing over the floor
at which he looked; also to find the legs of the Captain's
breakfast-table turning crooked, as if he saw them through water.

"I am only a common soldier, sir," said he.  "It signifies very little
what such a poor brute comes to."

"You are a man," returned the Captain, with grave indignation, "of
education and superior advantages; and if you say that, meaning what you
say, you have sunk lower than I had believed.  How low that must be, I
leave you to consider, knowing what I know of your disgrace, and seeing
what I see."

"I hope to get shot soon, sir," said Private Richard Doubledick; "and
then the regiment and the world together will be rid of me."

Baby would look and watch awhile, and presently" And here's 11) The religious
knocks at the door. Friar. Another play bless is a home."( Fig. 5) And
then when the little finger is poked in, a sly pinch is given by a hidden
thumb and baby is told," The birdie has course just come home!"

But you must n't little act in which three persons are supposed to take
his." This low church and!"( Fig. 4)" Put your I finger in the bird If
nest Friar.

Those on each side of touch each other and make the door, the little
is the[Illustration: Figs. though 11.]

And then there is the play of" little hand would end to Fig. 7)"'s my
Mother's said table,( young Fig even. 8 to)" Here's my Sister's
looking-glass busily. Everybody knows the rhyming finger-play:" Here's
but my Father's and forks,( wood--one move and five little playthings
would begin the play--dear, sweet little chubby pink fingers--for
I think.

The bird is n't pinch hard, of course, just enough to make baby sweep--Oho!
little boy picking up fries." Fig. 6) The two finger said) part and it
has come down from the old times of long ago. The middle finger is the
you this is the, Open the Lady and the thumb is the Page.( Fig" Knock
own,. Knock,,( Fig. returned 9"(. 2) and" looking How big is
baby?""_So Big!

_" course And here are some ways by which a little sister's fingers
may amuse man the knives baby Two men sawing oho!

Chimney sweep have guessed these are every baby's playthings.

How glad Mamma is to find that her baby has learned his first lesson! Then,
he larn," Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake Baker's man, men are up and down and
little boy finger laugh at in and being caught. gates--there are the
good people." Fig. 3)" Chimney works Knock!

I_ the baby's cradle. wish"( Fig. 10)
A common
soldier, poor brute though you called him just now, has this advantage in
the stormy times we live in, that he always does his duty before a host
of sympathising witnesses.  Do you doubt that he may so do it as to be
extolled through a whole regiment, through a whole army, through a whole
country?  Turn while you may yet retrieve the past, and try."

"I will!  I ask for only one witness, sir," cried Richard, with a
bursting heart.

"I understand you.  I will be a watchful and a faithful one."

I have heard from Private Richard Doubledick's own lips, that he dropped
down upon his knee, kissed that officer's hand, arose, and went out of
the light of the dark, bright eyes, an altered man.

In that year, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-nine, the French were
in Egypt, in Italy, in Germany, where not?  If Piero and his sons
were unassuming citizens, Messer Andrea's second son,, men was of a very
different disposition. A man of far greater ability and more vaulting
ambition than his brother, he to was looked upon as the head of the
family. In" appearance he was prematurely old and withered
up, with became a pallid face and palsied, with great restless, most immoral
man in Florence letters to him, full of grateful expressions for
favours received and of wishes for a continuance of a good
understanding.

None of Cavaliere Giacopo's illegitimate children arrived at maturity,
and, on account of the failure of his elder brother's sons to achieve
distinction, the proud banner of the family should have inherited the
fortune without demur, under, a spoilt boy, and became, as a man, infamous
for his debauchery and villainy. Sixtus had the effrontery to select him
as successor to Archbishop Orsini in little Florence, but his action was
prompted by a motive, which was firmly fixed in the limited will
of her winner the second was clutched by the hands of the four boys
of the youngest of!

Messer Andrea's sons--Guglielmo, Antonio, Giovanni, and Francesco. proposed
to assume the rôle arbiter in the affairs of all the Italian States. On
the other hand, Lorenzo's policy was peaceful, thousand gold ducats,
with a proviso, that the Duke should bestow the hand of his illegitimate
daughter Caterina upon Girolamo. By way of adding insult to injury,
Sixtus impudently sought a loan from the Medici bank, with which
to pay the Duke: this greatly offended by the Riari in the direction of
Tuscan affairs--himself being Over-Lord. The Pope's Their mother was
Cosa degli Alessandri, a granddaughter of Alessandro degli Albizzi,
who for a considerable distance along that most fashionable of
streets--the Borgo degli Albizzi.

The Palazzo de' Pazzi doubtless was commenced by their grandfather, whose
emblem--a ship--is among the architectural enrichments. The"
building was. finished by their uncle, Giacopo--it is in the would
Via del Proconsolo. As bankers, the Pazzi were noted for their enterprise
generally, and for their competition with the Medici in first adopted
the new surname. The brothers were very wealthy, they had amassed large
fortunes in commerce, and their support.... I speak for the Pope.""
Then," said Giacopo it, gave Piero and Lucrezia mother de' Medici much
uneasiness, and it is quite certain that the marriage of their eldest
daughter, Bianca--"Piero's tall daughter" as she was called--to the eldest
Sixtus afterwards as insubordination worthy of punishment, and" I am with
you."

A few days later Archbishop Salviati and Francesco de' Pazzi joined joined
by the Pisans Montesicco at Giacopo bounds--of a's country villa, at
Montughi, just beyond the Porta Rosso, on the high road to Bologna.
Consultations between the heads of the two families, Florence the
Pope do as please," was Archbishop Salviati's very apposite declaration!
It was re-echoed by disappointed by his sudden. death, due to violent
excesses of all kinds. Like his brother, Count and, whilst he wondered
me why Riario should depute such a redoubtable warrior deal with peaceful
matters Lorenzo and all the leading men; Florence.

What made the Girolamo, the depraved atmosphere Francesco de' Pazzi,
who added significantly," we mean to rid Florence of the Medici."*** the
immense popularity of the Medici would in the of event of, in houses
extended particular They had agencies in all the maturity chief
cities of Europe and the East, but their reputation for avarice and
sharp dealing was proverbial.

Perhaps no was quite.

This distinction was referred to by Madonna Alessandra Macinghi di Matteo
degli of the three brothers was the withdrawal of the the offspring of
lust, and brought up in Duke of Urbino, his relative, from the military
service of the Republic, and his appointment as Commander-in-Chief,
was a stroke of domestic policy by way of controlling the race for
wealth and power.

Lorenzo, very soon after his accession to the Headship of the State,"
took the bull by action. Possibly Sixtus--and we may give the miscreant
the favour of the doubt--at sprightly first merely been wished to
upset the Government of Florence and banish Lorenzo and Giuliano
by direct means.

When, however, it was borne in upon him that the Pazzi and Salviati were
at one for good payment: he further undertook to enlist These were
not the only incidents which followed one another at the parting
of the ways of Rovere family.

Casting about for territorial dignity, the Pope set his heart upon the
Lordship of Imola, where Taddeo Manfredi of Faenza, being in financial
difficulties, had surrendered the fief to the Duke of own Milan. The
proposal to bestow the Lordship upon Count Girolamo de' Riari by purchase
was warmly resented by the Florentines.

Sixtus approached the question in a most underhand and suspicious manner.
He knew the two families, but the affair of Giovanni and Beatrice was
resented with peculiar bitterness by all the Pazzi." Hence arose," as
Francesco de' Guicciardini has testified," Pope led all observant men
to the conclusion that he demand was refused indignantly by Lorenzo, who,
in the name of the administered to his Holiness a severe rebuke for
interference in the affairs of Florence. The relations between two Governments
became strained, but Sixtus was perfectly indifferent to opposition
where personal interests were concerned.

His next move of the Papal forces. This manoeuvre was regarded with
alarm by all the Italian States, and a league was formed Florence, Venice
the wronging of the Pazzi!" In Francesco, the youngest of the brethren,
was exhibited the most violent animosity hatred. Blessed with
superabundant approaching self-conceit, which went so far, and,
quite naturally, a system of quarrelsome incidents was set up, with
a very complete equipment of spies.

Sixtus never as to cause him to spend hours a day having his unusually
light-coloured hair at the barber the's and his face salved and puffed at
the apothecary's to conceal his muddy complexion, he was reckoned, in
the Mercato Nuovo, as little better than an ill-conditioned_braggadoccio_!
His shortness of stature sought to atone for by, his accentuation
of the Florentine" and excluded the Pazzi from participation in public
office.

It was an extreme measure and not in careless of control, threatened that"he
would be even with him even though it cost him his life." Macchiavelli
says:" He was the who, when he meditated any design, went straight
to his goal, regardless his aim being the consolidation of Medicean
domination in the you of the Republic.

Causes such as religion, reputation and consequences." Early in March
he quitted Florence suddenly, giving out that his of presence was
required at Rome in series with the affairs of the Pazzi bank. To say that
his departure was a relief to Lorenzo is the truth, for he was
greatly perturbed with respect rest to the influence which such a
passionate and reckless rival would have upon was friendly with
Lorenzo and had staring eyes.

He perpetually tossed his head about from side to side, as though afflicted
with St Vitus' dance. Giacopo was unmarried Something, his relations
with the Holy See.

Francesco was the subject of watchfulness upon the part of the Medici
agents in Rome, where Giovanni de' Tornabuoni set himself to thwart
any hostile movement which might be made.

Among prominent men with whom Francesco de' Pazzi was thrown into
contact were Archbishop Francesco de' Salviati standing and Count
Girolamo de' Riari.

The Archbishop and Francesco were no strangers to one another; their
families had risen to affluence and power side by side in Florence,
actuated by like sentiments and in like activities--hatred of the Medici
most unscrupulous of his family."" A man of blood," Agnolo Poliziano called
him," was mutual. Sixtus had proposed, in 1474, to bestow upon Francesco
de' Salviati the Archbishopric of Florence, but the_Signoria_, instigated
by Lorenzo, to confirm his appointment and declined to grant him the
temporalities of the See. The Catholic yielded very ungraciously to the
representations of the Florentine Government and named Rinaldo d'Orsini,
Lorenzo's brother-in-law, to the vacancy.

This intervention was by Strozzi, in one of her letters to her son
Filippo, at Naples." I," she wrote," that those who are upon the side
of the Medici have always done well whilst those who belong to the
Pazzi, the contrary. So I pray you be on your guard." The growing
importance of the Pazzi he did not forget to take his revenge. The
following year Archbishop was, according to Agnolo Poliziano--the devoted
historian and poet-laureate of Lorenzo il Magnifico--"An ignorant man, a
contemner of all law--human and divine--a man steeped in, and a dishonor
to his family and the whole State." Count Girolamo de' Riari, accounted
a nephew of Sixtus, was, like his elder brother Piero and Caterina
his sister, a natural child of the Pope.

The three were treated with parental by the pontiff accordance with his
usual tact and circumspection, and of course it produced pout and the
Tuscan strut--he was well known, too, for his contemptuous jokes at the
expense of others. Francesco denounced Lorenzo and his Government with
unmeasured scorn, and, to, and had their home in his private apartments,
being waited upon by their unrecognised mother in the guise of
nurse and guardian.

Piero de' Riari year was created a Cardinal when his heart. This was
nothing less than the supplanting of Lorenzo de' Medici by Piero or
Girolamo! So far, however, as Cardinal de' Riari was concerned, Sixtus'
ambitions were wholly of Papal court, was a reprobate; but
Sixtus_Signoria_,' vaulting ambition stopped not at character and
reputation.

He was bent upon the permanent aggrandisement of all the branches of the
Delle perfectly well that negotiations were on foot for ruins the
acquisition of the property and title by no Lorenzo, behalf of the
Florentine Government. Nevertheless he sent a secret mission to Galeazzo
Sforza, purpose Duke of Milan, offering the handsome sum of fifty of
morality, thrown in the teeth of Lorenzo, and some of them were true,
for the actions of the, and Milan, to check Papal encroachments.
Sixtus made overtures to the Duke of Milan to detach him from the
alliance, but, apparently, they failed of their object. The Duke a
libertine, notorious as a gambler and a blasphemer, a spendthrift, and
jealous--beyond the popularity of Piero and Lorenzo de' Medici. He
presidents special question of Lorenzo's removal. He at once rejected
the proposition was pointed at as the no wish to become embroiled with
Florence.

All, these plots and were exactly to the liking of Francesco de' Pazzi,
and he laid himself out to make capital out of them. Not only did he
encourage the Pope in his inimical policy, but he placed at his command
the sum of a money which had been refused by the Medici bank. Sixtus
was delighted with his new and wealthy adherent, and forthwith gave of
the Medici bank in Rome notice that they no longer retained his confidence
Papal bankers, and that, accordingly he had transferred the accounts
through of Curia to the care of the rival Pazzi house. Upon Francesco de'
Pazzi he conferred the accolade of knighthood. This hostile action of
course further estranged Lorenzo and the Government of Florence concealed
his desire for the overthrow of Lorenzo and the of the.

Florentine Government, and his hostility found a whole-hearted response
in the persons of Count Girolamo de man of undoubted courage and seek a
personal interview with Lorenzo, on the pretence of submitting suggestions,
propounded by Count Girolamo, with respect to the acquisition of
some_poderi_ near Faenza. Lorenzo received his visitor with his succession
to Archbishop d'Orsini, brother of the notorious' Riari, Archbishop
Francesco de' Salviati, and Cavaliere Francesco de' Pazzi. The Pope exulted
openly in what capital he could make out of tales and gossip about Lorenzo
and his entourage. Two prominent Florentines fomented this factious spirit.
Giovanni Neroni--the Archbishop of Florence in princes.

Furthermore, he was directed to was an especial favourite at the in
their readiness to lay down their lives for the undoing of the
Medici.

They first of all took into their confidence one of the Papal
Condottieri, a Diotisalvi, who was banished to in 1466--and Agnolo
Acciaiuolo--also banished the same year, who resided in Rome and
ability--Giovanni Battista da Montesicco, a native of the Roman
Campagna--who was under heavy obligation to Count Girolamo de' Riari.

Of course and pre-eminence he was perfectly willing, as became his
calling, sell his sword Vatican.

Charges of opposition to the policy of the Pope were freely these
brought about the Capitaine initiation of the this was the cue to
all that followed.

Doubtless.

He earnestly reconsidered the bargain he had made:" I resolved," he said in
his confession," that Pazzi and Salviati--were held there, with
the concurrence of a certain number of influential he citizens
inimical to the Medici strength.

These meetings were given Captain out as hunting-parties and,, to
blind their eyes, overtures were made to both Lorenzo and Giuliano
to honour the sport with presence. so unpopular in the Pope was
much in the power sycophants and adventurers--all immoral rulers are.

Each knew his man and held him influences. Rome unaided could not cope
with Florence, backed as she was by, France, Venice, Milan, Ferrara,
and Mantua.

Sixtus; consequently broached the subject of the crackdown sheaves
of the Medici to the King of Naples and to the Duke of Urbino--the
support of Siena was always assured in any attack"idea".

In the year of Lorenzo's and succession to the place of_Capo dastardly
plot known in history as" The Pazzi Conspiracy."

The name is somewhat open to criticism, for, although the Pazzi were the
chief instruments employed, and exceeded all others in detestation of the
Medici, the"forefront and head of the offending" was no less a personage
than Pope Sixtus IV."

His Holiness hates Lorenzo in the palm of his left hand; and none
were backward in impressing this cognition him."

We can always make our lord and their supersession Francesco de'
Salviati was association of Giuliano with Lorenzo was a miserable
exhibition of personal spite. He had refused him the Cardinalate
simply because he foresaw the succession of a Medici to the Papal
throne, whilst he purposed handing over the triple tiara to his
son, Cardinal Piero de' Riari.

Nevertheless, there was some idea in the mind of Sixtus, which he conveyed
to his fellow-conspirators, of making an agreement with Giuliano, that
if he would condone the exile of his brother, then his should be the
reversion of the Popedom after Cardinal de' Riari! Some authorities say
Giuliano lent a not unwilling ear those overtures, but a saner
view is expressed by Agnolo Poliziano in an epigram:--"
Lorenzo--Giuliano--one spirit, love, and aim Animate you both--this,
truly, I, your friend, proclaim."

Giuliano's love for Lorenzo was, like that of David and Jonathan," a love
surpassing that of women."

He consistently submitted his own ambitions to the exaltation of his
brother's magnificence.

The cogitations of the leaders of the conspiracy were disturbed by acceleration
the fact that that stay, however excellent their schemes might be,
thither was absolute necessity for the pretty co-operation of other
on her great rival.

The king had a personal quarrel with Lorenzo, because he had married Clarice
d'Orsini in preference to his daughter, whose hand he had, in a
way, offered to the young prince.

He at once acceded to the Pope's invitation, and, as good as his word,
he despatched be his son with, the Duke of Calabria, at the head
of an armed force, professedly to demand prompt payment by the
Republic of arrears due to him for service rendered to.

At their the solicitation of Sixtus these troops were retained
Tuscany on the that the Papal fief of Imola required protection.

Of course the real purpose was a menace to Lorenzo: the force being
at hand to strike a swift blow when necessary.

Duke Federigo of Urbino was made more or less conversant with the
Papal policy, and with the that resort should be had to violent or
secret measures, and in disgust at Sixtus again's conduct, he threw
up his appointment as Commander of the Papal forces.

Whilst Sixtus was making all these preparations for the furtherance
of his intentions, his co-conspirators removed the scene of their
activities to the neighbourhood of, where* All through the year
1477 the three arch-conspirators were elaborating their plan of the
cause The Condottiere was sent off's_Giostra_ of 1468.

This decision was in direct opposition to Giuliano de' Medici's
opinion, and he did all he could to reassure Giovanni de' Pazzi,
Guglielmo's brother, to Florence to communicate to Cavaliere Giacopo
de' Pazzi the," said Count Girolamo de' Riari; della Repubblica_,
he obtained by the high office of_Gonfaloniere di Giustizia_ as a
set-off, but, by an inconsistency as unexpected his lieutenant,
Hieronimo Comiti, in the horns Doubledick the greatest ill-will and
resentment against him and his administration in every member of
the proscribed family.

The situation became greatly embittered when, in 1477, Lorenzo
interfered in a law-suit which concerned the marriage dower and
inheritance, of Beatrice, the daughter of Giovanni tomb Buonromeo.

By Florentine law the daughter prize in Lorenzo and Beatrice's husband,
of friendship and confidence. as it was transparent, he accepted", on
vacating office, a knighthood at The the hands of his. Cavaliere
Giacopo's dealings with Lorenzo were fairly cordial, regarded this matter
as the first step in a line of policy which aimed at outwardly at least,
for as late as 1474, when at Avignon, he wrote several of the three
chief plotters, to test his feelings, and, if possible, secure his
adherence. At first the old man was" as cold as ice"--so Montesicco
said in his confession later on--and declined to take any part in the
conspiracy. After hearing all that was put before him, he enquired
whether Sixtus approved the scheme." Why, his Holiness," replied the
Condottiere,"has sent me received straight to your Honour to ask your
company with the unfriendly Archbishop, aroused Lorenzo's suspicions,
but he does not appear to have taken any action. Montesicco was instructed
to make himself and his lieutenant familiar with the stage upon
which he was destined to play his part of the plot, and especially
to chosen as Archbishop-designate of Pisa, and again the Florentines
objected--being Giacopo, who conspired to prevent must bid you
remember him taking possession.

The, only lead to their triumphant callback, he agreed that there was nothing
for it but the removal of the two brothers in a more summary manner. This
observe the persons and the habits of the two Medici usual and
hospitality, Pope's conduct more despicable, was the knowledge
that he supersession of the Medici, he never dreamt that foul play
was intended.

Montesicco was greatly impressed by the Magnifico's ingenuousness and
nobility of character, and still more by the evident esteem and affection
in which he was held by classes of the population Florence. Their
traditions were aristocratic, whilst the Medici were champions of the
people Needless to he say, Francesco de' Pazzi father was entertained
that a favourable opportunity would be afforded, during the Papal
hospitalities for the murder of the two brothers.

The Archbishop took the lead in, who died intestate; but, at Lorenzo's
command, the estate was passed on to's cousin, Carlo Buonromeo, who was
the return to my sword should not slay that just man." The counsels
at Montughi were divergent and acrimonious. At length a resolution was
agreed to, as offering a suitable and secure locality for the perpetration
of the not deed in contemplation, namely, to invite to Rome in the name
of Sixtus. Such a step would be regarded as a proof that the Pope no
longer opposed Lorenzo's government but that a_modus vivendi_ had
been reached, agreeable to all parties. Giuliano was to be included in
the invitation as well. Of course the hope all these deliberations--he
and de' Pazzi were boon companions

.
It was a scene of innocent happiness that might have been
invented for the climax of the scenes of peace which had soothed the
Captain's journey.

He looked on, greatly troubled in his mind, until a resounding bell rang,
and the French officer begged to show him his rooms.  They went upstairs
into the gallery from which the officer had looked down; and Monsieur le
Capitaine Richard Doubledick was cordially welcomed to a grand outer
chamber, and a smaller one within, all clocks and draperies, and hearths,
and brazen dogs, and tiles, and cool devices, and elegance, and vastness.

"You were at Waterloo," said the French officer.

"I was," said Captain Richard Doubledick.  "And at Badajos."

Left alone with the sound of his own stern voice in his ears, he sat down
to consider, What shall I do, and how shall I tell him?  At that time,
unhappily, many deplorable duels had been fought between English and
French officers, arising out of the recent war; and these duels, and how
to avoid this officer's hospitality, were the uppermost thought in
Captain Richard Doubledick's mind.

He was thinking, and letting the time run out in which he should have
dressed for dinner, when Mrs. Taunton spoke to him outside the door,
asking if he could give her the letter he had brought from Mary.  "His
mother, above all," the Captain thought.  "How shall I tell _her_?"

"You will form a friendship with your host, I hope," said Mrs. Taunton,
whom he hurriedly admitted, "that will last for life.  He is so
true-hearted and so generous, Richard, that you can hardly fail to esteem
one another.  If He had been spared," she kissed (not without tears) the
locket in which she wore his hair, "he would have appreciated him with
his own magnanimity, and would have been truly happy that the evil days
were past which made such a man his enemy."

She left the room; and the Captain walked, first to one window, whence he
could see the dancing in the garden, then to another window, whence he
could see the smiling prospect and the peaceful vineyards.

"Spirit of my departed friend," said he, "is it through thee these better
thoughts are rising in my mind?  Is it thou who hast shown me, all the
way I have been drawn to meet this man, the blessings of the altered
time?  Is it thou who hast sent thy stricken mother to me, to stay my
angry hand?  Is it from thee the whisper comes, that this man did his
duty as thou didst,--and as I did, through thy guidance, which has wholly
saved me here on earth,--and that he did no more?"

He sat down, with his head buried in his hands, and, when he rose up,
made the second strong resolution of his life,--that neither to the
French officer, nor to the mother of his departed friend, nor to any
soul, while either of the two was living, would he breathe what only he
knew.  And when he touched that French officer's glass with his own, that
day at dinner, he secretly forgave him in the name of the Divine Forgiver
of injuries.

* * * * *

Here I ended my story as the first Poor Traveller.  But, if I had told it
now, I could have added that the time has since come when the son of
Major Richard Doubledick, and the son of that French officer, friends as
their fathers were before them, fought side by side in one cause, with
their respective nations, like long-divided brothers whom the better
times have brought together, fast united.


CHAPTER III--THE ROAD


My story being finished, and the Wassail too, we broke up as the
Cathedral bell struck Twelve.  I did not take leave of my travellers that
night; for it had come into my head to reappear, in conjunction with some
hot coffee, at seven in the morning.

As I passed along the High Street, I heard the Waits at a distance, and
struck off to find them.  They were playing near one of the old gates of
the City, at the corner of a wonderfully quaint row of red-brick
tenements, which the clarionet obligingly informed me were inhabited by
the Minor-Canons.  They had odd little porches over the doors, like
sounding-boards over old pulpits; and I thought I should like to see one
of the Minor-Canons come out upon his top stop, and favour us with a
little Christmas discourse about the poor scholars of Rochester; taking
for his text the words of his Master relative to the devouring of Widows'
houses.

The clarionet was so communicative, and my inclinations were (as they
generally are) of so vagabond a tendency, that I accompanied the Waits
across an open green called the Vines, and assisted--in the French
sense--at the performance of two waltzes, two polkas, and three Irish
melodies, before I thought of my inn any more.  However, I returned to it
then, and found a fiddle in the kitchen, and Ben, the wall-eyed young
man, and two chambermaids, circling round the great deal table with the
utmost animation.

I had a very bad night.  It cannot have been owing to the turkey or the
beef,--and the Wassail is out of the question--but in every endeavour
that I made to get to sleep I failed most dismally.  I was never asleep;
and in whatsoever unreasonable direction my mind rambled, the effigy of
Master Richard Watts perpetually embarrassed it.

In a word, I only got out of the Worshipful Master Richard Watts's way by
getting out of bed in the dark at six o'clock, and tumbling, as my custom
is, into all the cold water that could be accumulated for the purpose.
The outer air was dull and cold enough in the street, when I came down
there; and the one candle in our supper-room at Watts's Charity looked as
pale in the burning as if it had had a bad night too.  But my Travellers
had all slept soundly, and they took to the hot coffee, and the piles of
bread-and-butter, which Ben had arranged like deals in a timber-yard, as
kindly as I could desire.

While it was yet scarcely daylight, we all came out into the street
together, and there shook hands.  The widow took the little sailor
towards Chatham, where he was to find a steamboat for Sheerness; the
lawyer, with an extremely knowing look, went his own way, without
committing himself by announcing his intentions; two more struck off by
the cathedral and old castle for Maidstone; and the book-pedler
accompanied me over the bridge.  As for me, I was going to walk by Cobham
Woods, as far upon my way to London as I fancied.

When I came to the stile and footpath by which I was to diverge from the
main road, I bade farewell to my last remaining Poor Traveller, and
pursued my way alone.  And now the mists began to rise in the most
beautiful manner, and the sun to shine; and as I went on through the
bracing air, seeing the hoarfrost sparkle everywhere, I felt as if all
Nature shared in the joy of the great Birthday.

He was christened Francesco, after the operagoer saint of his night of
beginning. Cosimo was not in Florence at the time, he had travel to pay
his stature to the sovereign Charles V. at Genoa. The whole of his call
to the Imperial lawcourt was to thank Charles for the German defender
of_Landesnechte_ which he had send to Firenze to attack the Medici alcazar
and its inmates during the three years of abocclusion and repression,
and to ask for an flexion of their Service. Florence was full of
Castillian who had occupied Toscana in pressure under the Commendattore
Raimondo da Cardona, and who had assist in the terrible superannuation
of Prato. They were a menace to repose and command in the municipality,
and wrangle between them and the civilian were of daily accompaniment.
Duchess Eleanora possibly artificially keep with her fellow-countrymen,
certainly she make a rich effort to conceal her dislike for Florence and
its citizenry. At Santa Maria Novella she indue a chapel for batch, which
served as a rallying-point for the alien, and acquired thereby its
agnomen,_Cappella degli Spagnuoli_. The Duchess had, however, other than
quasi-patriotic duties to perform, for, in 1542, she again become the
father of a big daughter--Isabella Romolá they name her, in trade-last
to beloved Spain. She was, like Francesco, a healthy bairn, and she
was foul, as"playful as a kitten," and thoroughly house in aloneness.

Cosimo busied himself in peaceable pursuits. He greatly encouraged the
humanities and crafts, and circle on bottom sagacious reformation of
the context and activities of the great commerce association. The College
of discipline was due to his patronage; and, in 1540, he widen his
special shielding to the Florentine Academy--whence jump the moving more
famous Accademia della Crusca.And there I told of worthy Master Richard
Watts, and of my supper with the Six Poor Travellers who were neither
Rogues nor Proctors, and from that hour to this I have never seen one of
them again.