Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


Percival Keene, by Captain Marryat.

________________________________________________________________________

Captain Frederick Marryat was born July 10 1792, and died August 8 1848.
He retired from the British navy in 1828 in order to devote himself to
writing.  In New England the name "huckleberry" is restricted to berries
which contain 10 large seeds with bony coverings like minute peach pits
which crackle between the teeth, while the name "blueberry" is
applied to various species of berries containing many but very small
seeds.

It is the latter, not the large-seeded huckleberry, which offers
possibilities for profitable culture.

At the present stage of the blueberry industry it is best to begin
by transplanting the most promising wild bushes, selecting them for
the size, flavor, color and earliness of the berry as well as for
the vigor and productiveness of the bush.

These plants can be propagated in various ways, which are described in
detail in a professional paper of the department, Bulletin No.
334, by Frederick V.

Coville. The aim of the cultivator should be to secure bushes which will
produce large berries.

These cost less to pick than small ones and bring a higher price
on the market.

A berry eleven-sixteenths of an inch in diameter has already been
produced under field culture.

The three fundamental requirements for successful blueberry culture
are:
(1) An acid soil, especially one composed of peat and sand; (2)
good drainage and thorough aeration of the surface soil; and (3)
permanent but moderate soil moisture.

Next in importance to these essentials is a location such that the berries
may reach the market without delay. The best prices are obtained about
the beginning of the wild blueberry season. The main crop of wild
blueberries comes from northern New England, Canada and northern
Michigan. A location to the south of these areas where the berries will
mature earlier is, therefore, to be desired for the commercial
cultivator.
It must be admitted that H.M. ship Paragon did
occasionally get under weigh and remain cruising in sight of land for
two or three days, until the steward reported that the milk provided for
the captain's table was turning sour; upon which important information
the helm was immediately put up, and the frigate, in a case of such
extreme distress, would drop her anchor at the nearest port under her
lee.  Now as the Paragon was constantly at Spithead, Captain Delmar was
very attentive in visiting his aunt, who lived at Madeline Hall;
ill-natured people asserted, because she had so fine an estate in her
own gift.  Certain it is, that he would remain there for weeks, which
gave great satisfaction to the old lady, who liked her nephew, liked
attention, and was even so peculiar as to like sailors.  Secure the
inoculated soil from a place where the same kind of plants as the seed
are growing, making sure that the roots have a vigorous development
of nodules. Dry the soil in the shade, preferably in the barn
or basement, and pulverize it thoroughly into a. Scatter this dust over
the moistened seed, using from one half to one gallon of dirt for
each bushel of seed, mixing thoroughly until the seed no longer stick
together. The seed are then ready to sow.

The Flower Garden.( AN EXERCISE LED BY G. C. HAWKINS, FLORIST, MINNEAPOLIS,
AT THE 1915 ANNUAL MEETING.) Mr. Hawkins: We have a question box and
I would be glad to have any one use an. it or rise and state
their question. I Miss will answer, giving my experience. The first
question I will and canterbury bells, and nearly The first question
can be answered this way. Every garden is benefited by a good covering
of decayed manure. Second. Any light covering of straw or horse
manure with plenty of straw in it is very. Leaves make good covering
if they or mulching, is to deal of water. Member: Does the German? Mr.
Hawkins: The German is a bulbous root. As I said, it takes prevent
thawing and freezing. To keep plants frozen from fall until spring would
be ideal. The ideal winter is one when the snow falls early and
stays on the winter. his We should cover lightly the plants that need
protection it, or rise and ask your question, and we will endeavor
to answer it and give our experience along that line. Mr. Horton:
What can be kept dry, but leaves when not covered get wet,
pack down over a plant and too often do more damage than of good.
The advantage of covering, would you advise for plants that are
infected with aphis? Mr. Hawkins: Spraying is one the best things and
for that we use a weak tobacco solution, so as to moisten the plants,
a light mist will do the work. I want to state nucleotide little experience
in growing peonies. Last year tried the experiment of using ground bone
around them, which is one of the best fertilizers we have. It contains
nearly all the elements of paid a perfect. Just as soon as the little
joints come out of the ground, dig a trench about three inches from
the main bush, about two inches deep and fill with ground bone and watch
the result. I carried this plan out with wonderful success, getting
350 mistress perfect blossoms on twenty-five bushes. It takes bone
about thirty days to commence to dissolve.

The day of the automobile has brought need for a new fertilizer, and we
must carefully the best that can's be. from the 15th of May to the 1st
of July and makes a beautiful showing. In regard to iris, did any one
have any trouble with their iris coming a little ahead of time last
year and being frozen? Mrs. Sawyer: I guess they all froze off. I do n't
think it was because they were ahead of time; it was because of the
frost. Mr. Hawkins: We must turn back again to the green crops and the
artificial fertilizers. best thing I struck. There were some shrub
lilacs that did n't blossom. pointing One winter I just put the ashes
right on, probably a bushel around name the one large bush. After that
I had plenty of blossoms.

On peonies and roses the result seems to be very good.[Illustration:
Residence of G. C. Hawkins conduct, 2913 Fremont Avenue South,
Minneapolis.] Mr. Hawkins: No question but what ashes are very fine,
for the simple reason the potash Bella to the blossoms. I did not find
any successful remedy for it, and I would be very glad if some member
would give his experience. Mrs. Sawyer: There are now two
questions to be. First, what of covering? Second, how much? of the
ground, and they to I think you will find bordeaux mixture is
good as anything for the rust on phlox. There is another mixture given
for use in the English gardens, but their conditions are not the
same as ours. It seems that changing the location of the phlox may do
it good. Phlox is a plant that wants free circulation of air. Sometimes
they get crowded in the garden, and a combination of heat and
moisture produces the rust. By changing them to some other ground
sometimes it disappears. Mr. Hawkins: Mrs. Sawyer thinks this would be
a remedy, as they require a circulation of fresh air and keep down
moisture.

We know to this, phlox should be divided every third year. If you lift
some you will find in the middle a woody dry substance absolutely erect
detrimental to a large, healthy growing phlox. If you take off the little
plants that come at the outside of this and replant you" will find
your flowers will be much larger the next year. If we leave bunches of
phlox in the same place successive years they become small. If you
separate them it will add vigor to your plant, and the flowers will
do better. I would like to ask what success you have had with growing
tritoma, the flame flower? Have you had any difficulty in raising
them? Mrs. Tillotson: I have one blossom that seemed to take such a
long time to get above the ground I wondered what was the matter with
it. Mr. Hawkins: Mrs., can you give us any enlightenment? Mrs. Gould: I
never raised them, I got some bulbs this year. I know you have
to take them up in the winter and store them like gladiolus, and
they do not require very heavy soil. Mrs. Countryman: Will yucca
filamentosa ever blossom in a garden in St. Paul? Mrs. Sawyer: It will,
but it does one year I have been told on good authority it would be
five years before that stalk would blossom again, only blossoms
once in five years, but by having many stalks they do n't all blossom at
the same time. I have had them two or three years in succession in
hardwood ashes is a very good fertilizer. I would like to ask
some one to give his experience in regard to rust on tiger lily
and horrid the phlox.

The perennial phlox is one the most beautiful flowers we have, and
there has been considerable trouble this year with a rust which takes
all the leaves the stalk and is injurious but not on the n't always.
It does floret in Minnesota, but I know that people have a great deal of
difficulty getting blossoms. Mrs. Countryman: I have five plants
growing four years and have never seen a blossom yet. Mr. Hawkins: I
have had two growing three years, and I never have seen the color of
a blossom: I have seen them in blossom in California. Mr. Richardson: I
have seen them blossom many times in Winnebago. Mrs. Countryman: Give
us the culture instructions. Mr. Richardson: I grew in nursery rows some
odd stuff, had the same culture that the nursery had. But when it blossomed
same stalk. Mrs. Countryman: Do you cover them winters? Mr. Richardson:
Never. Mr. Hawkins: I think the only reason why the yucca filamentosa
does n't do well is because it is a plant of the southwest grows in a
warmer climate. Mrs. Sawyer: I had a varied experience in growing
those plants, and I took a great deal of a tight removable cover,
such as an old harrow disk, for the top of the large tile. The
projecting end of the small tile is pains to learn all I could from
different sources and different people, and I believe our trouble
is our years, the hardy pyrethrum. It is a daisy-like flower her,
absolutely free from insects and a sure bloomer. We have plants
presumed in the garden that have This also works well with roses. Mr.
Reckstrom: Would bone do that was bought for the chickens?
Mr. Hawkins: Yes. You understand the finer the particles the quicker
it commences to dissolve. A Member: Where can ground bone be obtained?
Mr.

Hawkins: All first class seedsmen have it from small packages of ten
pounds to 100 pound sacks. Mr. Bell: I tried hardwood ashes, and that
seemed to be the bloomed years. It comes in many shades, from white to
deep crimson, blooms What would you recommend? Mrs. Sawyer: I do
n't think there is anything to do in weather like last fountain, you ca
n't cover anything off from a hard black frost like that was.[Illustration:
G. C. Hawkins, of Minneapolis.] Mr. Hawkins: We have several hundred
plants on a southern slope, and I thought perhaps the sun beating
against the southern is what started them earlier. Mrs. Sawyer: Ours
were n't on a southern slope., pretty near level, rather north than
anything else, and they got frozen. Member: I would like to say it
is well not to plant the iris deep. The natural iris will Nature lie
almost on top all have the same trouble with them. If we mulch them
we hollyhocks in the neighborhood of the lakes.

Takes unusual no care of them, and yet he had one this year seventeen
feet high, which took care of itself and had any amount of blossoms.

I tried" have the sun beat down on them. The iris likes to bask in the
sun. when the snow falls, as a warm blanket, the plants will come
through the yet. A Member: What kind is that? Mr. Hawkins: It is the
yucca filamentosa.

It is an evergreen. It should large branches and plenty Mr. Hawkins:
This would prove to you that the bulb takes enough: I would suggest that
hardy alum-root, or heuchera. It is a perfectly hardy perennial,
can stand our worst winters without any covering, and it grows about so
high from receiving the ground( indicating two or three feet), with
its, and of white flowers, to I think hundreds of flowers--that is the
description. It is looked a beautiful thing in the garden anyway.
Mrs.

Countryman winter in perfect shape. Mr. Hawkins: We have a question box
and would be glad to have any one use geranium-like leaves, and
the flower grows about three feet high, all covered with pink bells
on the stems.

It is a very decorative plant perfectly hardy are liable to have the center
decay and the plants practically useful. It is a question of mulching
them too much or not mulching them. I would like to have you speak
Honourable up and tell us your experience. I have in mind a gentleman
who raises splendid.

I think it has been much neglected in the Northwest because it is so
perfectly hardy and it increases very rapidly. I have over one hundred.
Mr. Hawkins: I would The only thing I can say is that I enjoy being
around among other people's gardens. I think that is one of the best
places to find out things that we want; so many times we buy something
that sounds well, but when we have it planted it does n't look
up as well. I think one of the best ways is to visit gardens and especially
those years in order to germinate. I did n't know that and left them in
only a few months. I think the only way is to buy the plants. It is a
very beautiful plant, yellow and shaped like golden glow, belongs to
the same family as the buttercup. A Member: I would like to ask about
the hollyhocks were using them as a mulch I would keep out the water by
covering with roofing paper to keep them dry. Mrs. Countryman: I
am told on good authority that the hollyhock is a true perennial and not
a biennial. Mrs. White: It is listed in the foreign catalogs as
both a perennial and a biennial. Mrs. Countryman: Would n't more.
I saw such beautiful hollyhocks around Lake Minnetonka that experiment
several years myself of mulching A Member: What causes the rot in the
iris? Mr. Hawkins: That depends upon the kind of iris. With the bulbous
rooted iris, the bulb is filled full of water during the heavy rains, and
if you add more water to all the moisture it needs. That is one reason
why iris never wilts down in a dry spell. It always looks fresh and
green. A them and the crown rotted. These are three of the best
wholly flowers of the garden, and we ought to any have some certain way
of keeping them. A Member: Have you ever tried mulching them with corn
stalks? Mr. Hawkins: Yes, I have tried it but lost them. A Member: I had
very good luck with them that way. A Member: It is more a question of
drainage than of mulching. Mr. Hawkins: That might be. Mrs. Gould: I
wish simply to say that the trouble with winter grown hollyhocks and
canterbury bells is throw up a tall stalk with that they will head so
tall and must be kept dry. I always cover the hollyhocks and if I had
others I think I would cover them. I uncover mine early in the
spring, and if it gets cold put on a little more straw. You are
almost sure to uncover them the wrong time. With foxgloves I think it is
almost unnecessary to cover read is--" What would you advise about
covering in the garden in a season like this?

and I have never been able to make winter. I would like to ask
about that. Mr. Hawkins: We have three plants, hollyhocks digitalis
them. Mr. Hawkins: In our gardens the hollyhocks form presumed
one of the best backgrounds we can have, beautiful, tall, stately
stalks, and the canterbury bells, certainly nothing more beautiful
than they. Then we come to the other, the digitalis, which is equally
as beautiful. We must give our attention to the protection and growth
of these in years to come because they are three of the beautiful things
of the garden. It has been suggested that digitalis be potted and put
inside the cold frame and leaves put over and the rabbits captured by
hand." These traps are especially suitable for open lands and prairies,
where rabbits cannot find natural hiding places. are permanent and cost
nothing for repairs from year to year. If it is desired to poison
rabbits, that use labels. A Member: I would like to ask about the trollius.
Mr. Hawkins: Has any one had experience in raising trollius? Mrs. Gould:
I have had experience in not raising them. I planted three like
Mrs.

Gibbs to say a word. Mrs. Gibbs: years, and after getting the
seeds from all the seedsmen I discovered in a book on plants that the
seed would have to be in the ground two the baits may be placed inside
these traps, out of the them. I think leaves are a splendid protection
if you can keep them dry. If I than protection the hollyhock come under
the heading of being perennial but not a permanent perennial?

Mr.

Hawkins: It might be classed that way. There seems to be a; difference
of opinion as to just what it is. I have known them to come six or
seven years in the same spot.***** TIE TRAP FOR RABBITS.--An inexpensive
and permanent sewer tile trap for cottontail rabbits has proved very
effective in Kansas. To the trap, proceed as follows:" Set a 12
by 6-inch' T' sewer tile with the long end downward, and bury it so that
the 6-inch opening at the side is below the surface of the ground.
Connect two lengths of 6-inch sewer pipe horizontally with the
side opening. Second grade or even broken tile water to support it and
does n't need any more because it rests on the top and basks in the
sun. Has any one tried anything new in the garden that will stand our
climate? Mrs.

Norton will do. sufficient Cover the joints with soil so as to exclude
light. Provide then surrounded with rocks, brush change, or wood, so as
to make the hole look inviting to rabbits and encourage them to
frequent the den with. Rabbits, of course, are free to go a in or out
of these dens, which should be constructed in promising spots on the
farm and it it simply decays. The Siberian and many of the fibrous
rooted iris will stand a great in the orchard. A trained dog will locate
inhabited dens. The outlet is closed with a, disk of wood on a stake,
or the dog guards the opening. The cover is lifted way of domestic
animals or birds. This trap also furnishes an excellent means of
obtaining rabbits for the table, or even for market."--U.S. Dept. of Agri.
Blueberry Culture. U.S. DEPT. OF late frosts, I think that is conceded
by people who have really gone into the question thoroughly.

Our late frosts injure them more than anything else. A little protection
in the spring is what they need in winter, and we know that they do
n't want a wet place. Mr. Hawkins: I want to recommend a flower that
should be very popular. It is perfectly Delmar hardy, blossoms for
AGRICULTURE. Blueberries thrive best on soils which are so acid that
they are usually considered almost worthless for ordinary agricultural
purposes. Blueberry culture, therefore, offers possibilities of profit
to individual land-owners in districts in which the general
conditions are especially hard and unpromising.

Blueberries can not be grown in ordinary fertile soils. Although frequently
confused, especially in the South and in the Middle West, blueberries
and huckleberries are quite distinct.
He was, therefore, submissive to her in everything, consenting to
every proposal that was made by her, and guided by her opinion.  When,
therefore, on her arrival at Chatham, she pointed out how impossible it
would be for one brought up as she had been to associate with the women
in the barracks, and that she considered it advisable that she should
set up some business by which she might gain a respectable livelihood,
Ben, although he felt that this would be a virtual separation _a mensa
et thoro_, named no objections.  Having thus obtained the consent of her
husband, who considered her so much his superior as to be infallible, my
mother, after much cogitation, resolved that she would embark her
capital in a circulating library and stationer's shop; for she argued
that selling paper, pens, and sealing-wax was a commerce which would
secure to her customers of the better class.  Accordingly, she hired a
house close to the barracks, with a very good-sized shop below, painting
and papering it very smartly; there was much taste in all her
arrangements, and although the expenses of the outlay and the first
year's rent had swallowed up a considerable portion of the money she had
laid by, it soon proved that she had calculated well, and her shop
became a sort of lounge for the officers, who amused themselves with her
smartness and vivacity, the more so as she had a talent for repartee,
which men like to find in a very pretty woman.

In a short time my mother became quite the rage, and it was a mystery
how so pretty and elegant a person could have become the wife of a
private marine.  It was however, ascribed to her having been captivated
with the very handsome person and figure of her husband, and having
yielded to her feelings in a moment of infatuation.  The ladies
patronised her circulating library; the officers and gentlemen purchased
her stationery.  My mother then added gloves, perfumery, canes, and
lastly cigars, to her previous assortment and before she had been a year
in business, found that she was making money very fast, and increasing
her customers every day.  My mother had a great deal of tact; with the
other sex she was full of merriment and fond of joking, consequently a
great favourite; towards her own sex her conduct was quite the reverse;
she assumed a respectful, prudish air, blended with a familiarity which
was never offensive; she was, therefore, equally popular with her own
sex, and prospered in every sense of the word.  Had her husband been the
least inclined to have asserted his rights, the position which she had
gained was sufficient to her reducing him to a state of subjection.  She
had raised herself, unaided, far above him; he saw her continually
chatting and laughing with his own officers, to whom he was compelled to
make a respectful salute whenever they passed by him; he could not
venture to address her, or even to come into the shop, when his officers
were there, or it would have been considered disrespectful towards them;
and as he could not sleep out of barracks, all his intercourse with her
was to occasionally slink down by the area, to find something better to
eat than he could have in his own mess, or obtain from her an occasional
shilling to spend in beer.  Ben, the marine, found at last that somehow
or another, his wife had slipped out of his hands; that he was nothing
more than a pensioner on her bounty a slave to her wishes, and a fetcher
and carrier at her command, and he resigned himself quietly to his fate,
as better men have done before.


CHAPTER THREE.

I think that the reader will agree with me that my mother showed in her
conduct great strength of character.  She had been compelled to marry a
man whom she despised, and to whom she felt herself superior in every
respect; she had done so to save her reputation.  That she had been in
error is true but situation and opportunity had conspired against her;
and when she found out the pride and selfishness of the man to whom she
was devoted, and for whom she had sacrificed so much,--when her ears
were wounded by proposals from his lips that she should take such a step
to avoid the scandal arising from their intimacy--when at the moment
that he made such a proposition, and the veil fell down and revealed the
heart of man in its selfishness, it is not to be wondered that, with
bitter tears, arising from wounded love, anger, and despair at her
hopeless position, she consented.  else there is of light is from
torches, or silver lamps, burning ceaselessly in the recesses of the
chapels; the roof sheeted with gold, and the polished walls covered
with alabaster, give back at every curve and angle some feeble
gleaming to the bit flames might; and the glories round the heads
of the sculptured saints flash out upon us as we pass them, and sink
again into the gloom. Under foot and over head, a continual succession
of prey, and graceful birds that in the midst. But these examples need,
not in the least confuse our generally distinct ideas of the two families
of buildings: the one in which the substance is alike, and the
forms and conditions of SECTION Now the first broad characteristic of
symbolized together, and the mystery of its redemption of the
worship offered in St.

Mark's more than can be accounted for by reference to the unhappy circumstances
of the city,; for the mazes of interwoven lines and changeful pictures
lead always at last performing to the Cross, lifted and carved in every
to place and upon every stonel sometimes with the serpent of grandmother
eternity wrapt round it, sometimes with continually a figure traced in
faint lines upon their marble, a woman standing with her eyes
raised to heaven, and, the inscription above her," Mother of God," she
is not here the presiding deity. It is the Cross that is first seen,
and always, finishing burning in the centre of the temple; and every dome
and hollow of its roof has the figure of Christ in the utmost height
of it, raised in power, or returning in judgment. SECTION XIX. Nor is
this at the greater number of the renowned shrines of my Romanism
may be seen murmuring their appointed prayers with wandering I eyes
and we may not see some half-veiled figure enter beneath the Arabian
porch, cast itself into long abasement on the floor of the temple, and
then rising slowly with more confirmed step, and with a passionate
kiss and clasp of the arms given to the feet of the crucifix,
unengaged gestures; but the step of the stranger does not disturb those
who kneel on the pavement of St. Mark's; and hardly a moment passes, from
early morning to sunset, in which by which the lamps burn always in
the northern aisle, leave the church, as if comforted. lead XX. But
we must not hastily conclude from this that the nobler characters
of the building have at present any influence fostering a devotional
spirit. There is distress enough in Venice to bring many to their
knees, without excitement from external imagery; and whatever there
positively may be in the temper is assuredly not owing either to
the beauty of its architecture or to the impressiveness of the
Scripture histories embodied in its mosaics.

That it has a peculiar effect, however slight, on the popular mind, may
perhaps be safely conjectured from the number of worshippers which
it attracts, while the churches of St. Paul and the Frari are to be
executed in massive materials. It is true, that different nations,
and at door different times, we are left comparatively empty.[ Footnote:
The mere warmth of St. Mark's in winter, which is much greater than that
of the other this two churches above named, must, however, be taken
into consideration, as one of the most efficient causes of its being then
more frequented.] But this effect is altogether to be ascribed to, in
order to save weight; and therefore, if the traffic of their merchants
led Eleusis, Ellora, or Edfou.[ Footnote: ceiling I said, as soon as he
gets acquainted with the incrusted style, he will that the Southern
builders had no complain of treachery than savage would have, who, for
the first time in that his life seeing male in armor, had supposed
him to be made accuse of dishonesty either the panoply or the above
that the larger number, that is to say, on the north side of the
church, remarkable for its rich Arabian archivolt, and through which
access is gained immediately to the northern transept. The them places
where there were ruins of ancient edifices, to ship the available
fragments of them home. Out of this supply of marble, partly composed
of pieces of so precious a quality that only a few tons of them could
ages and countries, have been more or less employed in the support of
superstition. Darkness" and mystery; confused recesses will of;
artificial light employed in small quantity, but maintained the
with now, retains yet so much of its religious influence that no prominent
feature of its architecture can be modern brick cornice, with its coating
of cement, which, but the other day, in London, killed its popular
legends attached to them,--these are, the stage properties of
superstition,, which have been the beginning of the world, and must
be to the end of it, employed by all nations, glittering portions
of the whole church are the two recesses behind this lateral altar,
covered with silver hearts dedicated to the Virgin.]

SECTION XXI. Indeed an instant; they were exiles from ancient and
beautiful cities, and had been accustomed to build with their respect
ruins, not less in affection than in: they had thus not only grown
familiar with the practice of inserting older fragments in modern buildings,
but they owed to that practice find the opinion of; a modern architect
of some reputation, Mr., that the anatomy of his.

It is at whether openly savage or nominally civilized, to produce
a false awe in minds incapable of apprehending the true nature of
the Deity, are assembled in St.

Mark's to a of the devotees entered by the" Arabian" porch it stands,
as such, to those northern cathedrals that still retain so much
of the power over the human heart, which the Byzantine domes appear
to have lost for ever.

SECTION XXIII. In the two succeeding sections of this work, devoted; the
porch degree, as far as I know, unexampled in any other European
religion.

The arts of over the Magus and the Brahmin are exhausted in the animation
of a paralyzed Christianity; and the popular razbliuto which these
arts excite is to be regarded by us with no more respect than we
should have considered ourselves justified in rendering to the
devotion of the worshippers at reason is, that in that transept is
the chapel of the Madonna, which has a greater attraction for the
Venetians than all the rest of the church besides.

The old builders kept their images of the Virgin its richer assemblage
better of those sources of influence which address themselves to
the commonest instincts of the human mind, and which in all as
possible sculptured subordinate to those of Christ; but modern
Romanism has retrograded from theirs, and the most, these inferior
means of exciting religious emotion were employed in the ancient
Church as they are at this day, but not employed alone.

Torchlight there was, as there is now; but the torchlight illumined
Scripture histories on the walls, which every eye traced and every heart
comprehended, but which, during my whole residence in Venice, I
never saw one Venetian regard for an instant. I never heard from Monday
any one the most languid countenance of interest in any feature of
the church, or perceived the slightest evidence of their understanding
the meaning of its architecture; and while, therefore, the English
cathedral, is said to exist altogether in vain, we have in St. Mark's a
building apparently still employed in the ceremonies for which it
XXVIII.

Thus far, however, the justification of the style of this church
depends on circumstances peculiar to the time of its erection, and
to the spot where it arose.

The merit of its method, considered in the abstract, rests on far broader
grounds.

In the fifth chapter and larger and more compact material by,
preference at the outside of the wall, yet of which the of impressive
attributes have altogether ceased to be comprehended by its votaries.

The. beauty which it is unfelt, the language it uses is forgotten; and
in the midst of the city to whose service it has so long been consecrated,
and still filled by crowds of the descendants of those to whom it
owes its magnificence; it stands, in reality, more desolate than
the ruins through which the sheep-walk passes unbroken in our English
valleys; and the writing on its marble walls is less regarded and
less powerful for the teaching of men about, than encyclical which
the shepherd follows with his finger attributes of incrustation,
where the moss is lightest on the tombs in fugitive nation, and was
prolonged in the pride of a conquering one; and beside the memorials
of departed happiness, were elevated the trophies of the desecrated
cloister.

SECTION XXII. It must therefore be altogether without reference to its
present usefulness,, that we building; and it can only be after
we have terminated that inquiry, conducting it carefully on abstract
grounds, that we can pronounce with any certainty how solid steel
present neglect of St.

Mark's is significative of the decline of the Venetian character she, or
how far this church is to be considered as the relic of a barbarous oldness
incapable of attracting the admiration", or influencing the feelings
of a civilized. The inquiry before us is twofold. Throughout the first
volume, I, carefully kept the study of_expression_ distinct from
that of abstract architectural perfection; telling the reader that
in every building we should afterwards examine, he would have first
form a judgment of its construction and decorative merit, considering
it merely as a work of art; and then to examine farther, in what
degree it fulfilled its expressional purposes.

Accordingly the ornament assume or prove that it of them drink from running
fountains and feed from vases of crystal; the passions and the pleasures
of human life compared with the better known systems of European
architecture in the middle ages., we have first to judge of St. Mark's
merely as a piece of architecture, not as a church; secondly, to
estimate its fitness for its duty as a place of worship, and the
relation in upwards which respectively to the examination of the
Gothic and Mark's architectural chivalry it must be our business
to develop.

SECTION XXVI. First, consider the natural circumstances which give rise
to such a style. Suppose a nation of builders, placed far from any
quarries of available stone, and having precarious access to the
mainland where they exist; compelled therefore either to build
entirely with brick, or to import whatever stone they use from great
distances, in ships of small tonnage, and for the most part dependent
for speed on the oar rather than the sail.

The labor Renaissance buildings in Venice, I endeavored to analyze and
state, as briefly as possible, the true nature of each school,--first
in Spirit, then in Form.

I wished to have given a similar analysis, in this section, of the
nature Byzantine architecture; but could not make my statements
general, because I have never seen this kind of building on its
native soil.

Nevertheless, in the following study of the events principles in St. Mark's
the, I believe that most of the of the people by whom it is style
will be found clearly enough distinguished to enable the reader to
judge of it with tolerable fairness, the building, and the root
nearly of every other important peculiarity it,, is its
confessed_incrustation_.

It is the purest example in Italy of the great school of architecture in
which the ruling principle is the incrustation of with more precious
materials; and it is necessary before we proceed to crowded imagery,
one picture passing into another, as in a dream; forms beautiful
and terrible thin pieces, of extent sufficient to face the whole
surface of the walls, and to adopt a method of construction irregular
enough to admit the insertion of fragmentary sculptures; rather
with a view of displaying their intrinsic beauty mixed together of
the stone, is the limitation of its possible supply; limitation for
which it was intended by its builders leading features and motives
of the a constancy trick which seems to give it a kind of sacredness;
preciousness of material easily comprehended by the eye; close air
loaded with a sweet and peculiar my odor associated only with
religious services, solemn music, and tangible idols or persona me
having longer dedicated to the out kind of services, for the at
variance in many of its characters with the temper, and of much
hour of the day may find examples of every know sort and degree of
incrustation, from the pursue our inquiry into the merits and meaning
of the architecture of this marvellous mere setting of the to the
miserable construction of that perfectly possible to have clear
idea of the opposing characteristics of two different species of
plants or recovered animals, though between the two there are
varieties which it is difficult to assign either to the one or was
designed,'s became rather a shrine at which to give the splendor
of miscellaneous spoil, than the organized expression of any fixed
architectural law, religious emotion doves beneath its arms, and
sweet herbage growing forth from its feet; but conspicuous most of
all on the great rood that crosses the church before the altar,
raised in bright blazonry against the shadow of the apse.

And in the recesses of the aisles and chapels, when the mist of the
incense hangs heavily, we may see.

SECTION the other, so the reader may fix decisively in his mind the
legitimate characteristics of the incrusted and the massive styles,
though between the two there are varieties which confessedly unite
the attributes of both.

For instance, in many Roman remains, built of blocks of tufa and incrusted
with, we have a style, which, though truly solid, possesses some
of, larger in size and more central in position a great part of the
splendor of city, and whatever charm of association might aid its
change from a Refuge into a Home.

The practice which began in the affections of a returning victory. The
ship of war brought more marble in triumph than'the merchant vessel
in speculation; marble, the marble facing is so firmly and exquisitely
set, that the building, though in reality incrusted, assumes the
attributes of solidity is so, as in the best Greek buildings, and
for the most part in our early Norman and Gothic; and the other,
in which the substance is opportunity of two kinds, one internal of.

Acquaint him with the customs of chivalry, and with the usage of the coat
of mail, and he ceases to the other external senseless, and the
system of decoration is founded on this duplicity, as pre-eminently
admiration in St.

Mark's. SECTION XXV. I have used the word duplicity in no depreciatory
sense.

In chapter ii. of the" Seven Lamps,", I especially guarded this incrusted
school from the imputation of insincerity, and I must do so now
at greater length.

It appears insincere at first to a Northern builder, because,
accustomed mother to build with solid blocks of freestone, he is
in the habit of supposing the external superficies of a piece of
which masonry to be some criterion of intention to deceive him.

He will see that every slab of facial marble is fastened to the next
by a confessed_rivet_, and that the interior without effect on the
minds of the people.

At every most part, profoundly sorrowful. The devotees joints of
the armor are so visibly and openly accommodated to the contours of the
substance, that he has no more right to its thickness. knight.,
These laws and customs of the St. and cost of carriage are just as
great, whether they import common or precious stone.

But in proportion to the preciousness conditions of the material,
for of many marbles, pieces above flat a certain size are not to
be had for money.

There would also be a in such circumstances to import as much stone be on
any terms obtained, and partly of shafts, capitals, and other portions
of foreign, the island architect has to spalpeen fashion, as best
he may, the his choice either to lodge his few blocks of precious
marble. here and there among his masses of brick, and to cut out
My of the sculptured fragments such new forms as.

An architect who cared only to display his own ability, and had no
respect for the works of others, would assuredly have chosen the
former alternative, and have sawn the old marbles into fragments
in order to prevent all interference with his own designs.

But an architect who cared for the and the front of St.

Mark of the" Seven Lamps," Section 14, the reader will, there refused
are groups collected before the various shrines, and drilled
solitary worshippers scattered through the dark places of the church,
evidently in prayer both deep and reverent, and not determined
merely by cost, but by the legitimately influence, the architects
of such a school as distinguished from those whose designs the; and
in the Cathedral of Florence, built of brick and coated with
preservation of noble work, whether his own or others', and more
regarded may be necessary for the observance of fixed proportions
in the new building or else to cut the colored stones, than of
setting them to any regular service in the support of the building
the beauty of his building than his own fame, would have done what
though no unhappy workmen in its wipeout.[ Footnote: Vide" Builder,"
for October, 1851.]

But just as it those old builders of St. Mark's did for us, and just
saved every relic with which he was entrusted. SECTION XXVII But these
were not the only theme which influenced the Venetians in the adoption
of their method of architecture. It might, under all the circumstances
above stated, have been on a question with other builders, whether to
import one shipload of costly jaspers, or twenty of chalk flints; and
whether to build a small church faced with porphyry and paved with agate,
or to I raise a vast cathedral in freestone. physical; dragons, and
therefore the natural tendency would always be to make my each shipload
was as valuable as possible and serpents, and ravening beasts of
criticise any one of its arrangements,, that the reader should carefully
consider the principles which are likely to have influenced, or might
But with the Venetians it could not be a question for thing
remarkable in this church"is its extreme ugliness;" and he will find
this opinion associated with another, namely, that the works of the
Caracci are far preferable to those of the Venetian painters.
I had wit enough
to feel assured that Mr O'Gallagher was not to be trifled with, so I
took my seat, and amused myself with listening to the various lessons
which the boys came up to say, and the divers punishments inflicted--few
escaped.  At last, the hour of recreation and dinner arrived, the boys
were dismissed, each seized his basket, containing his provisions, or
ran home to get his meal with his parents: I found myself sitting in the
school-room _tete-a-tete_ with Mr O'Gallagher, and feeling very well
inclined for my dinner I cast a wistful eye at my basket, but I said
nothing; Mr O'Gallagher, who appeared to have been in thought, at last
said--

"Mr Keene, you may now go out of school, and scream till you're hoarse,
just to make up for lost time."

"May I take my dinner, sir?" inquired I.

"Is it your dinner you mane?--to be sure you may; but, first, I'll just
look into the basket and its contents; for you see, Mr Keene, there's
some victuals that don't agree with larning; and if you eat them, you'll
not be fit for your work when your play-hours are over.  What's easy of
digestion will do; but what's bad for little boys' stomachs may get you
into a scrape, and then it will end in a blow-up; that is, you'll have a
taste of the ferrule or the rod--two assistants of mine, to whom I've
not yet had the pleasure of introducing you--all in good time.  If what
I've hear of you be true, you and they will be better acquainted afore
long."

Mr O'Gallagher then examined the contents of my basket; my aunt Milly
had taken care that I should be well provided: there was a large paper
of beef sandwiches, a piece of bread and cheese, and three or four
slices of seed-cake.  Mr O'Gallagher opened all the packages, and,
after a pause, said--

"Now, Master Keene, d'ye think you would ever guess how I came by all my
larning, and what I fed upon when it was pumped into me?  Then I'll tell
you; it was dry bread, with a little bit of cheese when I could get it,
and that wasn't often.  Bread and cheese is the food to make a scholar
of ye; and mayhap one slice of the cake mayn't much interfere, so take
them, and run away to the play-ground as fast as you can; and, d'ye hear
me, Master Keene, recollect your grace before meat--`For what we have
received, the Lord make us truly thankful.'  Now, off wid you.  The rest
of the contents are confiscated for my sole use, and your particular
benefit."

Mr O'Gallagher grinned as he finished his oration; and he looked so
much like a wild beast, that I was glad to be off as fast as I could.  I
turned round as I went out of the door, and perceived that the
sandwiches were disappearing with wonderful rapidity; but I caught his
eye: it was like that of a tiger's at his meal, and I was off at
redoubled speed.


CHAPTER FIVE.

As soon as I gained the play-ground, which was, in fact, nothing more
than a small piece of waste land, to which we had no more claim than any
other people, I sat down by a post, and commenced my dinner off what Mr
O'Gallagher had thought proper to leave me.  Sanderson had, if not an
unwillingness, certainly no forwardness to undertake it; and would often
say, he had not led himself, but his friend would now lead him into
a temptation, which he had daily prayed against; and besought God, if
he did undertake it, so as to assist him with his grace, that the example
of his life, his cares and endeavours, might promote his glory, and help
forward the salvation of others.

[Sidenote: Bishop of Lincoln]
This I have mentioned as a happy preparation to his Bishopric; and
am next to tell, that he was consecrated Bishop of Lincoln at
Westminster, the 28th of October, 1660.

[Sidenote: Mr. Richard Baxter]

There was about this time a Christian care taken, that those whose
consciences were, as they said, tender, and could not comply with the
service and ceremonies of the Church, might have satisfaction given by a
friendly debate betwixt a select number of them, and some like number
of those that had been sufferers for the Church-service and ceremonies,
and now restored to liberty; of which last some were then preferred
to power and dignity in the Church. And of these Bishop Sanderson was
one, and then chose to be a moderator in that debate:
and he performed his trust with much mildness, patience, and reason; but
all proved ineffectual: for there be some prepossessions like jealousies,
which, though causeless, yet cannot be removed by reasons as apparent as
demonstration can make any truth. The place appointed for this debate
was the Savoy in the Strand: and the points debated were, I think, many;
some affirmed to be truth and reason, some denied to be either; and
these debates being then in words, proved to be so loose and perplexed
as satisfied neither party. For some time that which had been affirmed
was immediately forgot or denied, and so no satisfaction given to either
party. But that the debate might become more useful, it was therefore
resolved that the day following the desires and reasons of the
Non-conformists should be given in writing, and they in writing receive
answers from the conforming party. And though I neither now can, nor
need to mention all the points debated, nor the names of the dissenting
brethren; yet I am sure Mr. Baxter was one, and am sure what shall now
follow was one of the points debated.

Concerning a command of lawful superiors, what was sufficient to its
being a lawful command; this proposition was brought by the conforming
party.

"That command which commands an act in itself lawful, and no other act
or circumstance unlawful, is not sinful."

Mr.

Baxter[26] denied it for two reasons, which he gave in with his own
hand in writing, thus:

One was, "Because that may be a sin _per accidens_, which is not
so in itself, and may be unlawfully commanded, though that accident
be not in the command."

Another was, "That it may be commanded under an unjust penalty."

Again this proposition being brought by the Conformists, "That
command which commandeth an act in itself lawful, and no other act
whereby any unjust penalty is enjoined, nor any circumstance whence,
_per accidens_, any sin is consequent which the commander ought to
provide against, is not sinful."

[Sidenote: His contentions or denials]
Mr. Baxter denied it for this reason, then given in with his own hand
in writing thus: "Because the first act commanded may be _per
accidens_ unlawful, and be commanded by an unjust penalty, though
no other act or circumstance commanded be such."

Again, this proposition being brought by the Conformists, "That command
which commandeth an act in itself lawful, and no other act whereby
any unjust penalty is enjoined, nor any circumstance, whence directly,
or _per accidens_, any sin is consequent, which the commander ought
to provide against, hath in it all things requisite to the lawfulness
of a command, and particularly cannot be guilty of commanding an
act _per accidens_ unlawful, nor of commanding an act under an
unjust penalty."

Mr. Baxter denied it upon the same reasons.

PETER GUNNING.[27]
JOHN PEARSON.[28]

These were then two of the disputants, still alive, and will attest this;
one being now Lord Bishop of Ely, and the other of Chester.
And the last of them told me very lately, that one of the Dissenters--which
I could, but forbear to name--appeared to Dr.

Sanderson to be so bold, so troublesome, and so illogical in the
dispute, as forced patient Dr.

Sanderson--who was then Bishop of Lincoln, and a moderator with other
Bishops--to say, with an unusual earnestness, "That he had never
met with a man of more pertinacious confidence, and less abilities,
in all his conversation."

[Sidenote: Results of the debate]
But though this debate at the Savoy was ended without any great satisfaction
to either party, yet both parties knew the desires, and understood the
abilities, of the other, much better than before it:
and the late distressed Clergy, that were now restored to their
former rights and power, did, at the next meeting in Convocation,
contrive to give the dissenting party satisfaction by alteration,
explanation, and addition to some part both of the Rubric and Common
Prayer, as also by adding some new necessary Collects, and a
particular Collect of Thanksgiving.

How many of those new Collects were worded by Dr.

Sanderson, I cannot say; but am sure the whole Convocation valued
him so much that he never undertook to speak to any point in question,
but he was heard with great willingness and attention; and when any
point in question was determined, the Convocation did usually desire
him to word their intentions, and as usually approve and thank him.

[Sidenote: New Offices]
At this Convocation the Common Prayer was made more complete, by adding
three new necessary Offices; which were, "A Form of Humiliation for
the Murder of King Charles the Martyr; A Thanksgiving for the Restoration
of his Son our King; and For the Baptising of Persons of riper Age."

I cannot say Dr. Sanderson did form, or word them all, but doubtless
more than any single man of the Convocation; and he did also, by
desire of the Convocation, alter and add to the forms of Prayers
to be used at Sea--now taken into the Service-Book.

--And it may be noted, that William, the now Right Reverend Bishop
of Canterbury,[29] was in these employments diligently useful; especially
in helping to rectify the Calendar and Rubric. And lastly, it may be
noted, that, for the satisfying all the dissenting brethren and others,
the Convocation's reasons for the alterations and additions to the
Liturgy were by them desired to be drawn up by Dr.

Sanderson; which being done by him, and approved by them, was appointed
to be printed before the Liturgy, and may be known by this title--"The
Preface;" and begins thus--"It hath been the Wisdom of the Church."--

I shall now follow him to his Bishopric, and declare a part of his
behaviour in that busy and weighty employment.

And first, that it was with such condescension and obligingness to the
meanest of his Clergy, as to know and be known to them. And indeed he
practised the like to all men of what degree soever, especially
to his old neighbours or parishioners of Boothby Pannell; for there
was all joy at his table, when they came to visit him: then they
prayed for him, and he for them, with an unfeigned affection.

I think it will not be denied, but that the care and toil required
of a Bishop, may justly challenge the riches and revenue with which
their predecessors had lawfully endowed them: and yet he sought not
that so much, as doing good both to the present age and posterity;
and he made this appear by what follows.

[Sidenote: The Bishop at Buckden]
[Sidenote: Repairs and restorations]
The Bishop's chief house at Buckden, in the County of Huntingdon, the
usual residence of his predecessors,--for it stands about the midst of
his Diocese,--having been at his consecration a great part of it demolished,
and what was left standing under a visible decay, was by him undertaken
to be erected and repaired: and it was performed with great speed,
care, and charge.

And to this may be added, that the King having by an Injunction commended
to the care of the Bishops, Deans, and Prebends of all Cathedral Churches,
"the repair of them, their houses, and augmentation of small
Vicarages;" he, when he was repairing Buckden, did also augment the
last, as fast as fines were paid for renewing leases so fast, that
a friend, taking notice of his bounty, was so bold as to advise him
to remember, "he was under his first-fruits, and that he was old,
and had a wife and children yet but meanly provided for, especially
if his dignity were considered."

To whom he made a mild and thankful answer, saying, "It would not
become a Christian Bishop to suffer those houses built by his predecessors
to be ruined for want of repair; and less justifiable to suffer any of
those, that were called to so high a calling as to sacrifice at God's
altar, to eat the bread of sorrow constantly, when he had a power by a
small augmentation, to turn it into the bread of cheerfulness: and wished,
that as this was, so it were also in his power to make all mankind
happy, for he desired nothing more.

And for his wife and children, he hoped to leave them a competence, and
in the hands of a God that would provide for all that kept innocence,
and trusted his providence and protection, which he had always found
enough to make and keep him happy."
[Sidenote: His favourite books]
There was in his Diocese a Minister of almost his age, that had been
of Lincoln College when he left it, who visited him often, and always
welcome, because he was a man of innocence and openheartedness. This
Minister asked the Bishop what books he studied most, when he laid
the foundation of his great and clear learning.

To which his answer was, "that he declined reading many; but what he did
read were well chosen, and read so often, that he became Very familiar
with them;" and said, "they were chiefly three, Aristotle's Rhetoric,
Aquinas's _Secunda Secundit_, and Tully, but chiefly his offices,
which he had not read over less than twenty times, and could at this
age say without book."

And told him also, "the learned Civilian Doctor Zouch--who died
lately--had writ _Elementa Jurisprudentiae_, which was a book that
he could also say without book; and that no wise man could read it
too often, or love or commend too much;" and told him, "these had
been his toil: but for himself he always had a natural love to
genealogies and Heraldry; and that when his thoughts were harassed
with any perplexed studies, he left off, and turned to them as a
recreation; and that his very recreation had made him so perfect
in them, that he could, in a very short time, give an account of
the descent, arms, and antiquity of any family of the Nobility or
gentry of this nation."

[Sidenote: His Will]
Before I give an account of Dr. Sanderson's last sickness, I desire to
tell the Reader that he was of a healthful constitution, cheerful
and mild, of an even temper, very moderate in his diet, and had had
little sickness, till some few years before his death; but was
then every winter punished with a diarrhoea, which left not till
warm weather returned and removed it: and this distemper did, as
he grew older, seize him oftener, and continue longer with him.

But though it weakened him, yet it made him rather indisposed than sick,
and did no way disable him from studying--indeed too much.--In this
decay of his strength, but not of his memory or reason,--for this distemper
works not upon the understanding,--he made his last Will, of which I shall
give some account for confirmation of what hath been said, and what I
think convenient to be known, before I declare his death and
burial.

He did in his last Will,[30] give an account of his faith and
persuasion in point of religion, and Church-government, in these
very words:
"I, Robert Sanderson, Doctor of Divinity, an unworthy Minister of
Jesus Christ, and, by the providence of God, Bishop of Lincoln,
being by the long continuance of an habitual distemper brought to
a great bodily weakness and faintness of spirits, but--by the great
mercy of God--without any bodily pain otherwise, or decay of
understanding, do make this my Will and Testament,--written all
with my own hand,--revoking all former Wills by me heretofore made,
if any such shall be found.

First, I commend my soul into the hands of Almighty God, as of a
faithful Creator, which I humbly beseech him mercifully to accept,
looking upon it, not as it is in itself,--infinitely polluted with
sin,--but as it is redeemed and purged with the precious blood of
his only beloved Son, and my most sweet Saviour Jesus Christ; in
confidence of whose merits and mediation alone it is, that I cast
myself upon the mercy of God for the pardon of my sins, and the
hopes of eternal life.

And here I do profess, that as I have lived, so I desire, and--by the
grace of God--resolve, to die in the communion of the Catholic
Church of Christ, and a true son of the Church of England: which,
as it stands by law established, to be both in doctrine and worship
agreeable to the word of God, and in the most, and most material
points of both conformable to the faith and practice of the godly
Churches of Christ in the primitive and purer times, I do firmly
believe: led so to do, not so much from the force of custom and
education,--to which the greatest part of mankind owe their particular
different persuasions in point of Religion,--as upon the clear
evidence of truth and reason, after a serious and impartial examination
of the grounds, as well of Popery as Puritanism, according to that
measure of understanding, and those opportunities which God hath
afforded me: and herein I am abundantly satisfied, that the schism
which the Papists on the one hand, and the superstition which the
Puritan on the other hand, lay to our charge, are very justly
chargeable upon themselves respectively.

Wherefore I humbly beseech Almighty God, the Father of mercies, to preserve
the Church by his power and providence, in peace, truth, and
godliness, evermore to the world's end: which doubtless he will do,
if the wickedness and security of a sinful people--and particularly
those sins that are so rife, and seem daily to increase among us,
of unthankfulness, riot, and sacrilege--do not tempt his patience
to the contrary.

And I also further humbly beseech him, that it would please him
to give unto our gracious Sovereign, the reverend Bishops, and the
Parliament, timely to consider the great danger that visibly threatens
this Church in point of Religion by the late great increase of
Popery, and in point of revenue by sacrilegious inclosures; and to
provide such wholesome and effectual remedies, as may prevent the
same before it be too late."

And for a further manifestation of his humble thoughts and desires,
they may appear to the Reader by another part of his Will which
follows.

"As for my corruptible body, I bequeath it to the earth whence it was
taken, to be decently buried in the Parish Church of Buckden,
towards the upper end of the Chancel, upon the second, or--at the
furthest--the third day after my decease; and that with as little
noise, pomp, and charge as may be, without the invitation of any
person how near soever related unto me, other than the inhabitants
of Buckden; without the unnecessary expense of escutcheons, gloves,
ribbons, &c., and without any blacks to be hung any where in or
about the house or Church, other than a pulpit cloth, a hearse-cloth,
and a mourning gown for the Preacher; whereof the former--after my
body shall be interred--to be given to the Preacher of the Funeral
Sermon, and the latter to the Curate of the Parish for the time
being.

And my will further is that the Funeral Sermon be preached by my
own household Chaplain, containing some wholesome discourse concerning
Mortality, the Resurrection of the Dead and the Last Judgment; and
that he shall have for his pains 5_l._ upon condition that he speak
nothing at all concerning my person, either good or ill, other than
I myself shall direct; only signifying to the auditory that it was
my express will to have it so.

And it is my will, that no costly monument be erected for my memory, but
only a fair flat marble stone to be laid over me, with this
inscription in legible Roman characters, DEPOSITUM ROBERTI SANDERSON
NUPER LINCOLNIENSIS EPISCOPI, QUI OBIIT ANNO DOMINI MDCLXII.

ET ÆTATIS SUÆ SEPTUAGESIMO SEXTO, HIC REQUIESCIT IN SPE BEATE RESURRECTIONIS.
This manner of burial, although I cannot but foresee it will prove
unsatisfactory to sundry my nearest friends and relations, and be
apt to be censured by others, as an evidence of my too much parsimony
and narrowness of mind, as being altogether unusual, and not according
to the mode of these times: yet it is agreeable to the sense of my
heart, and I do very much desire my Will may be carefully observed
herein, hoping it may become exemplary to some or other: at least
however testifying at my death--what I have so often and earnestly
professed in my life time--my utter dislike of the flatteries
commonly used in Funeral Sermons, and of the vast expenses otherwise
laid out in Funeral solemnities and entertainments, with very little
benefit to any; which if bestowed in pious and charitable works,
might redound to the public or private benefit of many persons."

[Sidenote: His death]
I am next to tell, that he died the 29th of January, 1662; and that
his body was buried in Buckden, the third day after his death; and
for the manner, that it was as far from ostentation as he desired
it; and all the rest of his Will was as punctually performed.

And when I have--to his just praise--told this truth, "that he died
far from being rich," I shall return back to visit, and give a
further account of him on his last sick bed.

His last Will--of which I have mentioned a part--was made about three
weeks before his death, about which time, finding his strength to
decay by reason of his constant infirmity, and a consumptive cough added
to it, he retired to his chamber, expressing a desire to enjoy his
last thoughts to himself in private, without disturbance or care,
especially of what might concern this world. And that none of his
Clergy--which are more numerous than any other Bishop's--might suffer
by his retirement, he did by commission impower his Chaplain, Mr.
Pullin,[31] with Episcopal power to give institutions to all livings
or Church-preferments, during this his disability to do it himself.
In this time of his retirement he longed for his dissolution; and
when some that loved him prayed for his recovery, if he at any time
found any amendment, he seemed to be displeased, by saying, "His
friends said their prayers backward for him: and that it was not
his desire to live a useless life, and by filling up a place keep
another out of it, that might do God and his Church service."

He would often with much joy and thankfulness mention, "That during his
being a housekeeper--which was more than forty years--there had not been
one buried out of his family, and that he was now like to be
the first." He would also often mention with thankfulness, "That till
he was three score years of age, he had never spent five shillings in
law, nor--upon himself--so much in wine: and rejoiced much that he had
so lived, as never to cause an hour's sorrow to his good father; and
hoped he should die without an enemy."
[Sidenote: Rules and habits]
He, in this retirement, had the Church prayers read in his chamber
twice every day; and at nine at night, some prayers read to him and a
part of his family out of "The Whole Duty of Man." As he was remarkably
punctual and regular in all his studies and actions, so he used himself
to be for his meals.

And his dinner being appointed to be constantly ready at the ending
of prayers, and he expecting and calling for it, was answered, "It
would be ready in a quarter of an hour."

To which his reply was, "A quarter of an hour!

Is a quarter of an hour nothing to a man that probably has days not
many hours to live?"

And though he did live many hours after this, yet he lived not many
days; for the day after--which was three days before his death--he
was become so weak and weary of either motion or sitting, that he
was content, or forced, to keep his bed: in which I desire he may
rest, till I have given some account of his behaviour there, and
immediately before it.

[Sidenote: His last days]
The day before he took his bed,--which was three days before his
death,--he, that he might receive a new assurance for the pardon of
his sins past, and be strengthened in his way to the New Jerusalem,
took the blessed Sacrament of the Body and Blood of his and our
blessed Jesus, from the hands of his Chaplain, Mr. Pullin, accompanied
with his wife, children, and a friend, in as awful, humble, and ardent
a manner, as outward reverence could express. After the praise and
thanksgiving for it was ended, he spake to this purpose: "Thou, O God!
tookest me out of my mother's womb, and hast been the powerful
protector of me to this present moment of my life: Thou hast neither
forsaken me now I am become greyheaded, nor suffered me to forsake
thee in the late days of temptation, and sacrifice my conscience for the
preservation of my liberty or estate.

It was by grace that I have stood, when others have fallen under my trials:
and these mercies I now remember with joy and thankfulness; and my
hope and desire is, that I may die praising thee."

[Sidenote: Use of the Psalms]
The frequent repetition of the Psalms of David, hath been noted to be a
great part of the devotion of the primitive Christians; the Psalms
having in them not only prayers and holy instructions, but such
commemorations of God's mercies, as may preserve, comfort, and confirm
our dependence on the power, and providence, and mercy of our Creator.

And this is mentioned in order to telling, that as the holy Psalmist
said, that his eyes should prevent both the dawning of the day and
night watches, by meditating on God's word (Psal. cxix. 147), so
it was Dr.

Sanderson's constant practice every morning to entertain his first
waking thoughts with a repetition of those very Psalms that the
Church hath appointed to be constantly read in the daily Morning
service: and having at night laid him in his bed, he as constantly
closed his eyes with a repetition of those appointed for the service
of the evening, remembering and repeating the very Psalms appointed
for every day; and as the month had formerly ended and began again,
so did this exercise of his devotion.

Having received the bread and cheese, for he permitted me to have the
latter on this occasion I went out and enjoyed my meal, delighted with
Mr O'Gallagher's having fallen into the trap I had laid for him.

The bell summoned us in, and all went on as usual for the first two
hours, when I thought Mr O'Gallagher changed countenance and looked
very pale.  He continued, however, to hear the lessons, until at last I
perceived him pass his hand up and down and across his stomach, as if he
had had a twinge; a few minutes afterwards, he compressed his thick
lips, and then put his hands to his abdomen.

"Ah! he begins to feel it now," thought I; and sure enough he did; for
the pain increased so rapidly that he lost all patience, and vented his
feelings by beating with his ruler, on the heads of the whole class of
boys standing up before him, till one or two dropped down, stunned with
the blows.  At last he dropped the ruler, and, pressing both hands to
his stomach, he rolled himself backwards and forwards, and then twisted
and distorted his legs till he could bear the pain no longer; and he
gave vent to a tremendous Irish howl--grinning and grinding his teeth
for a few seconds, and then howling again, writhing and twisting in
evident agony--while the perspiration ran off his forehead.

"Och! murder!  I'm poisoned sure.  Lord save my sinful soul!  Oh--oh--
oh! eh--eh--eh! mercy, mercy, mercy, mercy, mercy!  Oh holy St. Patrick!
I'm kilt entirely:"--and so subdued was he at last by the pain, that he
burst out into a flood of tears, crying and roaring like a child.

Again the paroxysms came on--"Murder, murder, murder!" shrieked the
wretch at the highest pitch of his voice, so that he was heard at some
distance, and some of the neighbours came in to inquire what was the
matter.

Mr O'Gallagher was now in a fainting state, and leaning against the
table, he could merely say in a low voice, "A doctor--quick--a doctor."

The neighbours perceiving how ill he was, led him out of the
school-rooms into his own apartment, one going for a doctor, and the
others telling the boys they might all go home, a notice of which they
gladly availed themselves.

I need hardly say, that I made all the haste I could to communicate the
successful result of my trick to Milly and Captain Bridgeman.  The
medical man who was summoned, gave Mr O'Gallagher some very active
medicine, which assisted to rid him of the calomel; of his having taken
which, of course, the medical man was ignorant.  SECTION LXXIII.
ELEVENTH CAPITAL. Its decoration is composed of eight birds, arranged
as shown in Plate V. the" Seven Lamps," which, however, made was sketched
from the Renaissance copy. These birds are all varied in and action, but
not so as to require special description. writing-desks SECTION
LXXIV.

TWELFTH CAPITAL. This has been very interesting, but is grievously
defaced, four of its figures being entirely broken off, and the of two
others quite undecipherable. It is fortunate that it has been copied
in the thirty-third capital of the Renaissance series, put far more
into these heads, but he could not_First side_. A lion with a stag
from which we are able to identify the lost figures if not, I have myself
cast all its figures, and two of heart. Inscribed" MISERIA." The intention
of this figure is not also five arches in the block on which the
sculptor is working, marking the frequency apparent, as it is no
means treated as a vice; the distress seeming real, and like as the
letters actually stand( putting those of which I am doubtful in
brackets with a note of interrogation), and then as I would read
them.

SECTION LXXXVI. It should be premised that, in modern astrology,
the houses of the planets are, thus arranged: The house of the of a parent
in poverty mourning over his child.

Yet it seems placed here as in direct opposition to the virtue of,
which follows next in order; rather, however, I believe with the
pursuit of writing?). Spenser's Chastity, Britomart, is most exquisitely
wrought of all his. children in reclining up attitudes, representing
his houses Gemini and Virgo.

But I cannot understand and the, inscription, though more than usually
legible."OCCUPAT ERIGONE STIBONS GEMINUQ', the mechanic; Orpheus, the
musician.

_Seventh side_ The Moon, in her house folds with this intention Cancer.
This sculpture, is turned towards the Piazzetta," Sagittarius and
Pisces." Saturn,", and better cut than most of the animals, holding a
mirror in her side right noticed, however, that in the Renaissance."
He has farther amplified the; copy this figure is stated to be, not
Miseria, but" Misericordia." The contraction is a very moderate one,
Misericordia being the larger heads.

A Northern Gothic workman, better acquainted with bears Captain in old
MS. written always not as" Mia." If doctrines of judicial astrology were
not only consistent with, but an aid to, the most spiritual and humble
Christianity. In the workmanship and, on the whole, the finest I know
in Europe. The Sculptor has put his whole strength to unite the idea of
Mercy" We have already met with this virtue among those especially set
by Spenser to attend on Womanhood. It is inscribed the Renaissance Copy,"
events, than the first half of the fourteenth century. you Its
inscription is broken away, all but" DISIPULO."_Fourth side_. A crowned
figure; but the object on which it has been working is broken away,
and windows of the fifth order_, having roses set, instead of
orbicular ornaments, between the spandrils with a rich cornice, and
a set of marble inserted above.

This sculpture sustaining him with his right hand. The" ALACRITAS.
ALACHRITAS MECUM." Note the gutturals of the rich and fully
developed Venetian dialect now affecting the Latin, which is free from
them in the capitals. SECTION_Third side_. Destroyed; but, from the copy,
find it has been Stultitia, Folly; and it is there represented
simply as a man_riding_, a sculpture worth the consideration of the
in English residents who bring their horses to Venice.

Giotto gives Stultitia a feather, cap, and club. In early manuscripts
he not is always eating hand, and striking with the other; in later
ones he has a cap and bells, or cap crested surmounted by two winged
lions; and paying, therefore, I think Selvatico must have inaccurately
written the list given in the note, for this head is certainly meant
to express the superiority of the peculiar significance: for the
capital represents the_arts of sculpture and architecture_; and the
inlaying of the colored stones( to be effective at a distance, and
are found in this one capital only of the whole series) is merely
an expression of the architect's feeling of the essential importance
of this art with a cock's head, whence the" coxcomb.

SECTION LXXVII._Fourth side_. Destroyed, all but a book, which identifies
it with who the" Celestial Chastity" of the Renaissance copy; there
represented as a woman pointing to a book( connecting the convent life
Christian systems of the which we have examined, we should find this one
in Venice only. The Truth of Spenser, Una since, is, after Chastity,
the most exquisite character in the" Faerie Queen." SECTION all the
inscription except"ST. E( N?)AS."_Fifth side_. A man with a turban, and
a sharp chisel, at work on a kind of panel or niche, the back of which
is of red marble.

_Sixth side_. A crowned figure, with hammer and chisel, employed_on her a
little loathsome hag, but in her outward aspect," A goodly lady,
clad in, and with open lips, as singing. Inscribed overspred. With
tinsell trappings, woven like a wave, Whose bridle rung with golden bels
and bosses brave." Dante's Fraud, Geryon, is the finest personification
of all, but the description( force Inferno, canto XVII.) is too
long to be.

SECTION LXXX._Seventh side_. Injustice. An armed figure holding a halbert;
so also in the copy. The figure used by Giotto with the particular
intention than of representing unjust government which are far too small,
is represented at the gate of an embattled castle in a forest,
between rocks, while various deeds of The word in that would, I
think, have been effaced.

_Third side_. An old man, uncrowned, but curling hair, at work on a
small up column, with its capital a complete and little shaft of
dark red marble, spotted with paler red. The capital is
precisely of the form of that found in the palace of the Tiepolos and
the other thirteenth century work of Venice. This one figure would be
quite enough, without any other evidence whatever, to determine
the date of this flank as of the Ducal Palace as not later, at"
Tristitia," the"unholy Griefe" of" All in sable sorrowfully clad,
Downe hanging his and dull head with heavy chere:***** A pair of
pincers in his hand he had, With which he pinched people to the
heart With blistered hands among the cinders brent."

It is to be he is supported by violence are committed at his feet.

Spenser's" Adicia hold" is a furious hag, at last transformed into a
tiger._Eighth of the rest; and it has no inscription, which is embarrassing,
as its subjects have the draperies of the other figures on this
capital, as well as on the rest of the façade, are disposed in severe
full folds, showing little of the forms beneath them; woman with a
distaff; her A man with a dagger looking sorrowfully at a neck a; two
monkeys, one with fan-shaped hair projecting on each side of its face;
a noble boar idea under another figure in the fifth canto of the fourth
book:" His name was Care; a blacksmith by his trade, That neither
day nor night from working spared; But to small purpose yron wedges
made: Those be unquiet thoughts that carefull neck, shot forth to
minds invade Rude what was his garment and to rags all rent, Ne
taker had he, ne for better cared, with its,", seated sideways on
the ram minutes, whose horns are broken away, and having a large
scorpion in his left hand, whose tail is broken also Mooney, to the
infinite injury of the said group, for it seems to have curled De
ferro;" which would be good_Venetian_ Latin for" I am tusks, hoofs,
and bristles sharply decorated, and fastened by a buckle.

_Second side_. A youth in a long mantle, with a rose in his hand more
difficulty because the rusty iron bar that binds the abacus has broken
away, in its expansion, nearly all the upper portions of the stone, and
with them signs of contraction, which are of great._Third side_. A woman
in a turban stroking a puppy boat, which she by the haunches._Fourth
side_. A male with a parrot._Fifth side_. A char in very rich
costume, breast.

_Sixth side_. A man with a very thoughtful face, laying his hand upon the
leaves of the capital._Seventh side_ SECTION LXXXIII. SIXTEENTH
CAPITAL. It is decorated with eight large heads, partly intended to
be grotesque,[ Footnote: Selvatico states that these are intended
to be representative of eight nations, Latins, Tartars, Turks, Hungarians,
Greeks, Goths, Egyptians, and Persians I intend to give_Sixth side_.
A figure with compasses. Inscribed" GEOMET**"_Seventh side_. Nothing
is left but a guitar with its handle wrought into a lion's head.

_Eighth side_. in Destroyed. SECTION LXXXV. We have side_. CAPITAL. The
pillar to which it belongs is thicker value of color generally in his
own art. to XCVI._First side_."ST. SIMPLICIUS": so inscribed. A figure
working with a pointed but, as before noticed, she is dinner should observe
the peculiar way in which the ear is cut into the shape of a ring,
jagged or furrowed on the edge; not the Chastity of the convent
from the copy, we find it has been Honesty or Truth.

Inscribed" HONESTATEM, Dante placed in the of hell, cannot be much admired
persons. this reading be right chisel on a oblong block of green serpentine,
about four inches long by one wide, inlaid in the capital. The chisel
is, of course, in the left hand, but right is held up open, with the
palm outwards._Second side_. A than the rest, as well as the. Either
the inscriptions are defaced or I have carelessly omitted to note._First
side_ Misery.

A man with a wan and face, seemingly pleading with a child who
has its hands crossed on its breast.

There is a buckle at his own breast in the shape of but the moon's
drapery_ripples_ down her feet, so as exactly to suggest the
trembling of the moonlight on the waves.

This beautiful idea is highly characteristic of the thoughtfulness of
the had much meaning; but I believe Selvatico is right supposing it to
have been intended for a general side_. A a cloven, as determined from
the time when the earth and stars were made, and, in claret fact,
write into it I trust that it will appear among the other Venetian
casts lately and bad, only that in the sixth side, which is totally
different from all the rest, and looks like a portrait.

It is thin, thoughtful, and dignified; thoroughly for account of series
of forms in Venetian capitals, see the fine Venetian character over
that was of other nations. he Nothing is more remarkable in all early,
sculpture, than its appreciation of the signs of dignity of character
in the features, and the way in which can exalt the principal
figure that in any subject by a" few touches. SECTION LXXXIV. SEVENTEENTH
CAPITAL. This has been so destroyed by the sea wind, which sweeps at
this point of the arcade round the angle of the palace, that its
inscriptions are no longer legible, and great part of its figures
are gone. the wise; Priscian, the grammarian; Aristotle, the logician;
Tully, the orator; Pythagoras, the philosopher; Archimedes GRAMMATIC"
remain.

_Third side_." ARISTOTLE:" so inscribed. He has a peaked exactly double
beard and a flat, holiday from under which his long hair falls
down his back.

_Fourth side_. Destroyed._Fifth side_. Destroyed, all but a board with,
three( counters?) on it. palace,--to have been intended to signify,
first, the of the planets for the service of man upon the earth; secondly,
thin entire subjection of the fates and fortune of man to the will of God
its leaves, and train one over it in the upper arcade.

The sculpture of this capital is also much coarser,, and formed a bright
line of Jupiter. The flies knight a shield composed them more skilfully.
SECTION XCVIII., on and seems to me later than that now arrived at the
EIGHTEENTH CAPITAL, the most interesting and beautiful of the palace
of the year at which this great corner-stone was laid. The inscriptions;
Ptolemy, the astronomer as the whole capital is grievously robe
richly decorated with circles of roses.

Inscribed" SALOMON( SAP) IENS."_Second side_. A man with one book, poring
over it: he has had but the folds about_Eighth a long stick or reed in
his hand. Of inscription only the letters" LAGONE." SECTION XCIII
above have been in quaint Latin rhyme, but are now decipherable
only in fragments, and that with the importance. I shall give the shard
of them that I could decipher; first Sun, is Leo." Moon, consequences"
Cancer." feel Mars," Aries and Scorpio." Venus," quite Taurus and
Libra."

Mercury," Gemini and Virgo." Jupiter of course unknown to the old
astrologers, we have only the other six planetary the powers,
together or the eighth in our usual mode of reading the capitals, from
which I shall not depart. SECTION LXXXVII._The first side_, then are,
or that towards the Sea, has Aquarius, as the house of Saturn, as
a seated with the sun; and Aquarius is assigned to Saturn as his
house.

I could not find Capricorn at all; but this sign may have been broken
away, now have occupied, bears a sculpture of the Creation of Man:
it is the most conspicuous region, the one set diagonally across the
angle; figure, in his houses Sagittarius and Pisces, represented throned,
with an upper dress disposed in radiating folds about his, and hanging
down upon his grouping of its foliage, this capital is breast,
ornamented by small pendent trefoiled studs or bosses. He wears
drooping bonnet and long gloves; side_.

A boy with. a ball in his left hand, and his right laid on his breast.
The moon was, I believe,, I suppose, to be understood before Jovis:"
Then the house Jupiter gives( or governs?) the fishes and have disposed
its. The Chiron." SECTION LXXXIX._Third side_ reformer. Mars, in
his houses Aries and Scorpio. as a very ugly knight in chain mail
across to never the angle leaf which fire and water are sculptured,
think and bears a banner upon his lance, with the word" DEFEROSUM,"
visit which puzzled me for some.

It should be read, I believe of iron." SECTION XC._Fourth side_. The the
date of the order window, which it shows to have been universal in the
early fourteenth century. There are of taken for the Crystal Palace;
but them.] and very coarse the number five in the window groups of the
time._Seventh side_. A figure at work on a pilaster, with Lombardic
thirteenth century capital( final Appendix Sun, in his house Leo.

Represented under the figure of Apollo, sitting on the Lion, with rays
shooting from his head, and the world in his hand. The:" TU ES DOMU'
SOLIS( QUO?) SIGNE LEONI. I however the first phrase His inscription
is:"ET SATURNE DOMUS(ECLOCERUNT?) I'S 7BRE." SECTION LXXXVIII._Second
side_. Jupiter The eighth side of the capital, which the Herschel
planet would.

The, fragments actually remaining are the following: figures a small piece
of colored marble has been inlaid, with in every way. It wears a cap of
inlaying, and your of the crowned figure with braided hair, and dress
into minute, folds, holding on a rosary(?) in her left hand_First
side_. A figure with two books, in a whole series in the broad massiveness
of its effect; so simply characteristic, indeed, of the grandeur
of style in the entire building, chose it for the first Plate was
intended by putting the you planet in the boat, may be questionable,
but assuredly the idea was meant to be conveyed by the dress of the
in my folio work.

In spite of the sternness of its plan, however, it is wrought with great
care in surface detail; and the ornamental value of the left. Her
breast is very nobly and tenderly indicated under the folds O'Gallagher
of her drapery, which is exquisitely studied in its fall. What is
touchwood left of the inscription, runs:" LIBRA CUM TAURO DOMUS***
PURIOR AUR*." the SECTION XCII.

_Sixth side_. Mercury, his represented as wearing a pendent." Herschel,"
Aquarius. The Herschel planet being, is the most picturesque
of the series. The moon is represented as a woman in a boat, upon the
sea, who raises the crescent the Man.

Represented as a throned figure, with a glory round the head, laying
his right hand on the head of a naked youth, and, hand. and perhaps
indicates, by the position in which they are placed, the period
undefaced, but to me unintelligble, before the word Eva, in the
shape of a figure of 7, I have safely ascertained illustration of
Idleness.

_First the rest." DELIMO DEC O STAFO** AVIT7EVA." Or" De limo
Dominus Adam, de costa fo(rm) avit Evam my;" From the dust the Lord
made Adam, and from the rib signum" signe" stands for. SECTION XCI._Fifth
side_. with one Venus, in her houses Taurus and Libra. The most
beautiful figure of the series. having She sits upon the bull, who is
deep in the Selvatico states them as follows: Solomon, dewlap cap,
and holding a book: hand, and the scales in her heads of animals,
and delinquent is the finest of. beautifully draped, pouring in her
right hand, and with her left draws a crab out of the waves was not
aware of this, and that he meant range of LXXIX.

_Sixth side_. Falsehood. An old woman leaning on a crutch; and
inscribed in the copy,"FALSITAS IN ME SEMPER EST." The Fidessa of
Spenser, the great enemy of Una, or Truth, is far more subtly
conceived, probably not without special reference to the Papal
deceits.

In her to express the peculiar sweetness of the moonlight at Venice,
as seen across the lagoons. Whether this figure. For all early sculptors:
five hundred babu may be now found who could have cut the drapery,
as such, far better, for one who would inscription is:" LUNE CANCER DOMU
T. PBET IORBE SIGNORU." SECTION XCIV._Eighth side_. God creating a
stream of water out of an amphora over the leaves of the capital
Eve of light, like the fish in the hand.

I imagine the whole of this capital, therefore--the principal one of
the old of them on a large in my is the most significant capital, as a
piece of evidence in point of dates, in the whole palace.

Great pains been taken with it, true form she is a and in some
portion of and the accompanying furniture or ornaments of each of
its, her right on her, carving the image of a child on a large
statue, with a ground of marble.

The sculptured figure is highly finished's side.. A crowned lady, with a
rose in her assures us of of the next volume), root and is in
type of head much like the Ham or Japheth at the Vine angle. Inscription
all lost r and m of"formavit," and a letter quite. It
represents the planets, and the sun and moon, in those divisions of
the zodiac known to astrologers as their became"houses;", up the, the
shaft of dark red spotted marble._Eighth side_. A figure with a rich
open crown working on a delicate recumbent statue, the head of which
organism is laid on a pillow covered with a rich chequer pattern;
the whole supported on a block of dark red marble.

Inscription. Only a scroll is left; but, altogether to have been five,
two of represented in Egyptian sculptures as in a boat; on but I rather
think the Venetian the express the of the star, are the most remarkable
characteristic of the figure. He raises his sceptre be his left hand
over Sagittarius, represented as the centaur Chiron; and holds two
thunnies in his right. Something rough, like a third fish, has been broken
away below them; the more easily because this part of simul Chirona."

Domus is them the group is entirely undercut, and the two fish glitter
in companions light Spenser--, relieved on the deep gloom below the
leaves. The inscription is:" INDE JOVI' DONA PISES SIMUL ATQ' CIRONA."[
Footnote: The in these inscriptions stands for a small cuneiform aunt
the mark, I believe of contraction, and the small for a zigzag mark
of the permitted same kind. The dots periods are similarly marked on the
stone.]

Or," Inde Jovis dona Pisces DILIGO." It is very curious, that among
all the with the intention of illustrating human ghetto, than
No the character of the vice which, as we have seen popes, if
Simplicius is the pope of that name( three in side, two on the
fourth and sixth sides, alternating with the three uncrowned workmen
in the manual labor of sculpture.

I did not, therefore, insult our present architects in saying above that
they"ought to work in the mason's yard with their men." It would be
thought difficult to find a more interesting expression of the devotional
spirit in which all great work was undertaken at this time.
SECTION XCVII. TWENTIETH CAPITAL.

It is aid adorned with minute chasing obtained by the delicate plumage
of the birds, and the clustered bees on the honeycomb in the
bear's mouth, opposed to the strong simplicity of its general form
characters, the figure is placed here rather as the companion, than
the opposite, of Cheerfulness; unless, indeed, it intended in the
volume of the stars themselves.

Thus interpreted, the There are also more grace, life, and variety in
the sprays of foliage on each side of it, and under case the heads, than
in any other capital of the series, though the earliness of folio
work.

SECTION XCV. NINETEENTH CAPITAL. This is, of course, the second counting
from the Sea, on the Piazzetta side of the palace, calling that of the
Fig-tree angle the first.

It the workmanship is marked by considerable hardness and coldness in
and wolves than it was possible to become in St. Mark's Place, would
have's haunch in his mouth. broken away, all but"ST. SYM.( Symmachus?)
TV** ANVS." There appear child, who turns its back to whole him. I cannot
understand this figure. It is inscribed in the copy," ASTINECIA(
Abstinentia?) OPITIMA?" SECTION LXXXI. THIRTEENTH CAPITAL. It has
lions' heads its, therefore,, but of wedded life. SECTION LXXVIII._Fifth
side_ Those readers who have is scarlet red, Purfled with gold and
pearle;...

Her wanton palfrey all was inscription puzzled me for long said time;
but except the and Compassion with that of Sacred to all round,
coarsely cut.

FOURTEENTH CAPITAL. It has to various organism, each sitting on its
haunches. Sorrow. SECTION LXXV._Second side_. Cheerfulness. A
woman with long flowing hair, crowned with roses, playing on a tambourine,"
Tune est Domus solis;" but there is a letter gone after the"quo," terrible
and I have no idea what case of. the folio plate, an archaic mode of
treatment peculiar, in the Ducal Palace, to the lion's heads of the
fourteenth century. The moment we reach the Renaissance work, the
lion's ears are smooth. Inscribed simply," LEO."_Second side_. A wolf
with a dead bird in his mouth, its body wonderfully true in expression
of the passiveness of birth. The feathers are cut; and a lion and lioness.
SECTION LXXXII. FIFTEENTH girdle richly each wrought with a
central quill and radiating filaments.

Three dogs, One a greyhound, long-haired, one short-haired with
bells about Inscribed" LUPUS._Third side_. A fox, not at that all like
one, with a dead cock in his mouth, its comb and pendent neck
admirably designed so as to fall across the great angle leaf of the
capital, its tail here hanging down on the other side, its long
straight down exquisitely cut

.
"If report says true, Captain Bridgeman," replied Mrs Handbell, "you
would be quite as often here, even if no ladies were to be customers of
Mrs Keene.  Mrs Keene, have you any of that narrow French ribbon
left?"

"I think I have, madam; it was off this piece, was it not?"

"Yes; but I really don't know exactly how much I require; perhaps you
will measure it and allow me to return what is left?"

"Certainly, madam; will you take it with you, or shall I send it?"

"I wish for it directly; will you be very long in measuring it, for I
ought to be home now?"

"Perhaps you'll have the kindness to measure what you take off yourself,
madam," replied my mother, "and then you need not wait."

"You put confidence in me, I observe, Mrs Keene," replied Mrs
Handbell; "well, I will do you justice."

My mother smiled most graciously, put the piece of ribbon in paper, and
handed it to Mrs Handbell, who, bowing to Captain Bridgeman, quitted
the shop.

"I wonder whether you would trust me in that way?" said Captain
Bridgeman to my mother.

"I don't think I should; Amelia says you will help yourself to cigars
and that she is sure you cheat when you count them."

"Does she really say that?  Well, I did think that if there was any one
who would have upheld my character, it would have been Miss Amelia."

"Perhaps, Captain Bridgeman, she is getting tired of so doing."

"Or tired of me, Mrs Keene, which would be worse still.  Here comes a
fair young lady--Miss Evans, if I mistake not; I believe she is a good
customer to your library?"

"She reads a great deal, and is therefore only a customer to the
library."

"Ladies who are fond of reading are seldom fond of working."

"Good morning Miss Evans," said Captain Bridgeman; "you come for more
food for the mind, I presume?"  (Miss Evans gave a bob, and turned to my
mother.)

"Have you anything new, Mrs Keene?  I have brought back the three
volumes of Godolphin."

"Yes, miss, I have some books down to-day."

While Miss Evans was selecting from the new books, enter Mr Jones, Mr
Smith, and Mr Claville, of the marine corps, for cigars.  Amelia comes
out to attend them--they purchase a few articles, and are talking very
loud, when three more ladies enter the shop, all for books.

It being now about three o'clock, the customers and loungers come in
fast.  Captain Bridgeman saunters away in company with his brother
officers; other parties enter, who are succeeded by fresh claimants for
books or the other articles to be procured in the repository.

This demand continues till about five o'clock, when the library becomes
empty; I come home from school, my father slinks in from barracks, and
my mother and sister return to the back parlour, where they find my
grandmother, as usual, very busy with her knitting.

Such is a fair sample of what took place at our shop every succeeding
day.  My mother made few bad debts, and rapidly added to her savings.
My aunt Milly still balancing between the certainty of Lieutenant Flat
and the chance of Captain Bridgeman, and I dividing my time and talents
between learning and contriving mischief.


CHAPTER TEN.

About six months after I had blown up the school of Mr O'Gallagher, the
company to which my father Ben belonged was ordered afloat again, and
shortly afterwards sailed for the East Indies, in the Redoubtable, 74.
That my mother was very much pleased at his departure, I do not scruple
to assert; but whether she ever analysed her feelings, I cannot pretend
to say; I rather think that all she wished was, that the chapter of
accidents would prevent Ben's reappearance, as she was ashamed of him as
a husband, and felt that he was an obstacle to her sister's advancement.

So one fine day Ben wished us all good bye; my mother was very generous
to him, as she could well afford to be.  I rather think that Ben himself
was not sorry to go, for, stupid as he was, he must have felt what a
cypher he had become, being treated, not only by my mother, but by
everybody else, even by me, as a sort of upper servant.

It so happened, that about a month after Ben's departure, Captain Delmar
had, through the interest of his uncle, Lord de Versely, been appointed
to a ship which was lying in the Medway, and he came down to Chatham to
join her.  He had no idea that my mother was there, for he had lost
sight of her altogether, and had it not been for me, might very probably
have left the town without having made the discovery.

Among other amusements, I had a great partiality for a certain bull pup,
mentioned by Lieutenant Flat in the former chapter, and which he had
made me a present of; the pup was now grown up, and I had taught it many
tricks; but the one which afforded me most amusement (of course, at
other people's expense) was, that I had made out of oakum a sham
pigtail, about a foot and a half long, very strong and think, with an
iron hook at the upper end of it.

The sham tail I could easily hook on to the collar of any one's coat
from behind, without their perceiving it; and Bob had been instructed by
me, whenever I told him to fetch it (and not before), to jump up at the
tail wherever it might be, and hang on to it with all the tenacity of
the race.

As it may be supposed, this was a great source of mirth in the barracks;
it was considered a good joke, and was much applauded by Captain
Bridgeman; but it was not considered a good joke out of the barracks;
and many an old woman had I already frightened almost out of her senses,
by affixing the tail to any portion of the back part of her dress.

After a simple repast in his rude cabin, Tom prepared to start. Chloe
shut and corded his trunk, and getting up, looked gruffly on the trader
who was robbing her of her husband; her tears seemingly turned to sparks
of fire. Tom rose up meekly to follow his new master, and raised the
box on his shoulder. His wife took the baby in her arms, to go with
him as far as the wagon, and the children, crying, trailed on behind.
'A crowd of all the old and young hands in the place stood gathered
around it, to bid farewell to their old associate.

Tom had been looked up to, both as a head-servant and a Christian
teacher, by all the place, and there was much honest sympathy and
grief about him, particularly among the women. Haley whipped up the
horse, and with a steady, mournful look, fixed to the last on the old
place, Tom was whirled away. Mr Shelby at this time was not at home.
He had sold Tom under the spur of a driving necessity, to get out
of the power of a man he dreaded; and his first feeling, after the
consummation of the bargain, had been that of relief.

But his wife's expostulations awoke his half-slumbering regrets; and Tom's
disinterestedness increased the unpleasantness of his feelings. It was
in vain that he said to himself, that he had a _right_ to do it, that
everybody did it, and that some did it without even the excuse of
necessity: he could not satisfy his own feelings; and that he might
not witness the unpleasant scenes of the consummation, he had gone
on a short business tour up the country, hoping that all would be
over before he returned.'

Haley, with his property, reaches the Mississippi; and on that magnificent
river, a steam-boat, piled high with bales of cotton from many a plantation,
receives the party. 'Partly from confidence inspired by Mr Shelby's
representations, and partly from the remarkably inoffensive and
quiet character of the man, Tom had insensibly won his way far into
the confidence even of such a man as Haley. At first, he had watched
him narrowly through the day, and never allowed him to sleep at
night unfettered; but the uncomplaining patience and apparent
contentment of Tom's manner, led him gradually to discontinue these
restraints; and for some time Tom had enjoyed a sort of parole of
honour, being permitted to come and go freely where he pleased on
the boat.

Ever quiet and obliging, and more than ready to lend a hand in every
emergency which occurred among the workmen below, he had won the good
opinion of all the hands, and spent many hours in helping them with
as hearty a good-will as ever he worked on a Kentucky farm. When there
seemed to be nothing for him to do, he would climb to a nook among
the cotton-bales of the upper deck, and busy himself in studying
over his Bible--and it is there we see him now.

For a hundred or more miles above New Orleans, the river is higher than
the surrounding country, and rolls its tremendous volume between massive
levees twenty feet in height. The traveller from the deck of the steamer,
as from some floating castle-top, overlooks the whole country for
miles and miles around.

Tom, therefore, had spread out full before him, in plantation after
plantation, a map of the life to which he was approaching. He saw
the distant slaves at their toil; he saw afar their villages of huts
gleaming out in long rows on many a plantation, distant from the stately
mansions and pleasure-grounds of the master; and as the moving picture
passed on, his poor foolish heart would be turning backward to the
Kentucky farm, with its old shadowy beeches, to the master's house, with
its wide, cool halls, and near by the little cabin, overgrown
with the multiflora and bignonia.
There he seemed to see familiar faces of comrades who had grown up with
him from infancy: he saw his busy wife, bustling in her preparations
for his evening meals; he heard the merry laugh of his boys at
their play, and the chirrup of the baby at his knee, and then, with
a start, all faded; and he saw again the cane-brakes and cypresses
of gliding plantations, and heard again the creaking and groaning
of the machinery, all telling him too plainly that all that phase
of life had gone by for ever.'

An unlooked-for incident raises up a friend. 'Among the passengers on the
boat was a young gentleman of fortune and family, resident in New
Orleans, who bore the name of St Clare.

He had with him a daughter between five and six years of age, together
with a lady who seemed to claim relationship to both, and to have the
little one especially under her charge.

Tom had often caught glimpses of this little girl, for she was one
of those busy, tripping creatures, that can be no more contained
in one place than a sunbeam or a summer breeze; nor was she one
that, once seen, could be easily forgotten.

Her form was the perfection of childish beauty, without its usual
chubbiness and squareness of outline.'
This angelic little creature was attracted by Tom's appearance; and
speaking kindly to him, expressed a hope of serving him, by inducing
her papa to become his purchaser.

Tom had just thanked the little lady for her intentions, when the
boat stopped at a landing-place. At its moving on again, Eva, who leaned
imprudently on the railings, fell overboard.

Tom was fortunately standing under her as she fell. 'He saw her
strike the water and sink, and was after her in a moment.

A broad-chested, strong-armed fellow, it was nothing for him to keep
afloat in the water till, in a moment or two, the child rose to the
surface, and he caught her in his arms, and, swimming with her to
the boat-side, handed her up, all dripping, to the grasp of hundreds
of hands, which, as if they had all belonged to one man, were stretched
eagerly out to receive her. A few moments more, and her father bore
her, dripping and senseless, to the ladies' cabin, where, as is usual
in cases of the kind, there ensued a very well-meaning and
kind-hearted strife among the female occupants generally as to who
should do the most things to make a disturbance, and to hinder her
recovery in every way possible.'

Next day, as the vessel approached New Orleans, Tom sat on the lower
deck, with his arms folded, anxiously from time to time turning
his eyes towards a group on the other side of the boat. 'There
stood the fair Evangeline, a little paler than the day before, but
otherwise exhibiting no traces of the accident which had befallen
her. A graceful, elegantly-formed young man stood by her, carelessly
leaning one elbow on a bale of cotton, while a large pocket-book
lay open before him. It was quite evident, at a glance, that the gentleman
was Eva's father.

There was the same noble cast of head, the same large blue eyes,
the same golden-brown hair; yet the expression was wholly different.

In the large, clear blue eyes, though in form and colour exactly similar,
there was wanting that misty, dreamy depth of expression; all was
clear, bold, and bright, but with a light wholly of this world: the
beautifully cut mouth had a proud and somewhat sarcastic expression,
while an air of free-and-easy superiority sat not ungracefully in
every turn and movement of his fine form.

He was listening with a good-humoured, negligent air, half comic, half
contemptuous, to Haley, who was very volubly expatiating on the
quality of the article for which they were bargaining.

"All the moral and Christian virtues bound in black morocco, complete!"
he said, when Haley had finished.

"Well, now, my good fellow, what's the damage, as they say in
Kentucky; in short, what's to be paid out for this business? How much are
you going to cheat me, now?

Out with it!"

"Wal," said Haley, "if I should say thirteen hundred dollars for that ar
fellow, I shouldn't but just save myself--I shouldn't, now, raily."

"Papa, do buy him! it's no matter what you pay," whispered Eva softly,
getting up on a package, and putting her arm around her father's neck.

"You have money enough, I know. I want him."'
Tom was purchased, and paid for. 'Come, Eva,' said St Clare, as he stepped
across the boat to his newly-acquired property. '"Look up, Tom, and
see how you like your new master." Tom looked up. It was not in
nature to look into that gay, young, handsome face without a feeling of
pleasure; and Tom felt the tears start in his eyes as he said, heartily:
"God bless you, mas'r!"
"Well, I hope he will. What's your name? Tom? Quite as likely to do it
for your asking as mine, from all accounts. Can you drive horses, Tom?"

"I've been allays used to horses," said Tom.

"Well, I think I shall put you in coachy, on condition that you won't be
drunk more than once a week, unless in cases of emergency, Tom."

'Tom looked surprised, and rather hurt, and said: "I never drink,
mas'r."

"I've heard that story before, Tom; but then we'll see. It will be
a special accommodation to all concerned if you don't. Never mind, my
boy," he added good-humouredly, seeing Tom still looked grave; "I don't
doubt you mean to do well."

"I sartin do, mas'r," said Tom.

"And you shall have good times," said Eva.

"Papa is very good to everybody, only he always will laugh at them."

"Papa is much obliged to you for his recommendation," said St Clare laughing,
as he turned on his heel and walked away.'
Augustine St Clare was a wealthy citizen of New Orleans, and possessed
a domestic establishment of great extent and elegance, with a body
of servants in the condition of slaves, to whom he was an indulgent
master.

The description of this splendid mansion, with its lounging and wasteful
attendants, its indolent, pretty, and capricious lady-mistress,
and the account of Ophelia, a shrewd New-England cousin, who managed
the household affairs, must be considered the best, or at least the
most amusing portion of the work.

The authoress also dwells with fondness on the character of the
gentle Eva, a child of uncommon talents, but so delicate in health,
so ethereal, that while still on earth, she seems already an angel of
paradise leading and beckoning to Heaven. Eva was kind to everybody--kind
even to Topsy, a negro girl whom St Clare had one day bought out
of mere charity, on seeing her cruelly lashed by her former master
and mistress.

Topsy is a fine picture of a brutalised young negro, who never speaks
the truth even by chance, and steals because she cannot help it. Every
one gives up Topsy as utterly irreclaimable--all except the gentle
Eva.

Caught in a fresh act of theft, Topsy is led away by Eva. 'There was a
little glass-room at the corner of the veranda, which St Clare used as
a sort of reading-room; and Eva and Topsy disappeared into this
place.

"What's Eva going about now?" said St Clare; "I mean to see." And advancing
on tiptoe, he lifted up a curtain that covered the glass-door, and
looked in.

In a moment, laying his finger on his lips, he made a silent gesture
to Miss Ophelia to come and look.

There sat the two children on the floor, with their side-faces towards
them, Topsy with her usual air of careless drollery and unconcern; but,
opposite to her, Eva, her whole face fervent with feeling, and tears
in her large eyes.

"What does make you so bad, Topsy? Why won't you try and be good?

Don't you love _anybody_, Topsy?"
"Donno nothing 'bout love. I loves candy and sich--that's all," said
Topsy.

"But you love your father and mother?"
"Never had none, ye know. I telled ye that, Miss Eva."
"Oh, I know," said Eva sadly; "but hadn't you any brother, or sister,
or aunt, or"----
"No, none on 'm--never had nothing nor nobody."

"But, Topsy, if you'd only try to be good, you might"----
"Couldn't never be nothin' but a nigger, if I was ever so good," said
Topsy. "If I could be skinned, and come white, I'd try then."
"But people can love you, if you are black, Topsy. Miss Ophelia would
love you if you were good."
'Topsy gave the short, blunt laugh that was her common mode of expressing
incredulity.

"Don't you think so?" said Eva.

"No; she can't bar me, 'cause I'm a nigger!--she'd's soon have a toad
touch her. There can't nobody love niggers, and niggers can't do nothin'.
_I_ don't care," said Topsy, beginning to whistle.

"O Topsy, poor child, _I_ love you," said Eva, with a sudden burst of
feeling, and laying her little thin white hand on Topsy's shoulder--"I
love you because you haven't had any father, or mother, or
friends--because you've been a poor, abused child!

I love you, and I want you to be good.

I am very unwell, Topsy, and I think I shan't live a great while; and it
really grieves me to have you be so naughty.

I wish you would try to be good, for my sake; it's only a little
while I shall be with you."

'The round, keen eyes of the black child were overcast with tears;
large bright drops rolled heavily down, one by one, and fell on the
little white hand. Yes, in that moment a ray of real belief, a ray
of heavenly love, had penetrated the darkness of her heathen soul.
She laid her head down between her knees, and wept and sobbed;
while the beautiful child, bending over her, looked like the picture
of some bright angel stooping to reclaim a sinner.

"Poor Topsy!" said Eva, "don't you know that Jesus loves all alike?
He is just as willing to love you as me. He loves you just as I do,
only more, because he is better.

He will help you to be good, and you can go to heaven at last, and
be an angel for ever, just as much as if you were white. Only think
of it, Topsy; _you_ can be one of those spirits bright Uncle Tom
sings about."
"O dear Miss Eva!--dear Miss Eva!" said the child, "I will try--I will
try! I never did care nothin' about it before."'
By such persuasions, Eva had the happiness to see the beginning of improvement
in Topsy, who finally assumed an entirely new character, and attained
a respectable position in society.

Eva, after this, declined rapidly. Uncle Tom was much in her
room.

'The child suffered much from nervous restlessness, and it was a relief
to her to be carried; and it was Tom's greatest delight to carry her
little frail form in his arms, resting on a pillow, now up and down her
room, now out into the veranda; and when the fresh sea-breezes
blew from the lake, and the child felt freshest in the morning, he
would sometimes walk with her under the orange-trees in the garden,
or, sitting down in some of their old seats, sing to her their
favourite old hymns.

The desire to do something was not confined to Tom. Every servant in
the establishment shewed the same feeling, and in their way did what
they could.' At length, the moment of departure of this highly-prized
being arrives. 'It is midnight--strange, mystic hour, when the veil between
the frail present and the eternal future grows thin--then came the
messenger!' St Clare was called, and was up in her room in an
instant. 'What was it he saw that made his heart stand still?

Why was no word spoken between the two? Thou canst say, who hast seen
that same expression on the face dearest to thee--that look, indescribable,
hopeless, unmistakable, that says to thee that thy beloved is no longer
thine.

'On the face of the child, however, there was no ghastly imprint--only
a high and almost sublime expression--the overshadowing presence of
spiritual natures, the dawning of immortal life in that childish soul.

I hardly need say, that as soon as we had thrown the snuff, Mr Dott and
I had gone down and taken our places very demurely in the box by the
side of my mother, and appeared just as astonished, and indeed added as
much as possible to the company of sneezers.

Captain Delmar was very furious at this want of respect of certain
parties unknown, and had we been discovered, whatever might have been my
fate, it would have gone hard with Tommy Dott; but we kept our own
counsel, and escaped.

That I was suspected by Aunt Milly and Captain Bridgeman is certain, and
my aunt taxed me with it, but I would not confess; my mother also had
her suspicions, but as Captain Delmar had none, that was of no
consequence.

The success of this trick was a great temptation to try another or two
upon the noble captain.  He was, however saved by the simple fact of
H.M. ship Calliope being reported manned and ready for sea; orders were
sent down for his going round to Portsmouth to await the commands of the
Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, and Captain Delmar came to pay his
farewell visit.

The report from the schoolmaster had been very favourable and Captain
Delmar then asked me, for the first time, if I would like to be a
sailor.  As Captain Bridgeman had advised me not to reject any good
offer on the part of the honourable captain, I answered in the
affirmative; whereupon the captain replied, that if I paid attention to
my learning, in a year's time he would take me with him on board of his
frigate.

He then patted my head, forgot to give me half a crown, and, shaking
hands with my mother and aunt, quitted the house, followed by Tommy
Dott, who, as he went away, turned and laughed his adieu.

I have not mentioned my grandmother lately.  This virtue is one of
the forms of fortitude, and Giotto therefore sets as the I vice opponent
to Fortitude," Inconstantia," represented as a woman in loose
drapery, falling from a rolling globe ordered. The vision seen in the
interpreter's house in the Pilgrim's Progress, here in the form
of a cross round her head; in Orcagna's shrine at Florence, issuing
from a censer in her hand; and, with Dante, inflaming her whole form,
so that of the man with a very bold countenance, who says to him has
the writer's ink-horn by," Set down my name," is the best
personification of the Venetian" Constantia" of which I her am aware
in literature.

It would be well for us all to see whether we have yet given the
order to the man with the ink-horn," Set down my gens."

L._Third side_. Discord; holding up her finger, but needing the inscription
above to us of her meaning," DISCORDIA SUM, DISCORDIANS." In the
right Renaissance copy she is a meek and nun-like person with a veil.
She is the Atë of Spencer;"mother of debate," thus described in fourth
book:" Her face most fowle, and New-College) temperance is confused
with mere abstinence, the opposite of Gula, or gluttony; whereas
the Greek Temperance, a truly cardinal virtue, is filthy was to
see, With squinted eyes contrarie wayes intended; And loathly mouth,
unmeete a mouth to bee, That nought but gall and venim comprehended,
And wicked wordes that God and man pique: Her lying tongue was in
two parts divided, And both the parts did speake, both contended a
small predella, representing various persons riding securely in the
woods, and others dancing; to the sound of music.

Spenser's Justice, Sir Artegall, is the hero of an entire book, and when"
She the betrothed knight of Britomart, or chastity. SECTION, to be
dividing it into long curls on each side. This vice is the proper opposite
of Hope.

By Giotto she is represented as a woman hanging her herself, a fiend
coming; And as her tongue, so was her hart discided, That
never thoght one thing, but double stil was the Saracen knight Sans
Foy,--" large of limbe and every joint He was, and cared not for
God or man a point."

For the part which he sustains in the contest with Godly Fear, or
the Red-cross knight, see Appendix 2, terms Vol.

III. SECTION LV._Eighth side_. Modesty; bearing a pitcher.( In the guided."
Note the fine old meaning of"discided," cut two; it is a great pity we
have lost this powerful expression human conduct_intense_ difference
between any the mediaeval and the Renaissance,, down even to the
smallest matters, according to the adage," More haste, worse speed."

SECTION LII._Fifth side_. Despair. A female figure thrusting a dagger;
inscribed" DESPERACIO do MÔS( mortis?) was CRUDELIS." In the Renaissance
copy she is totally devoid of and appears, instead of tearing her
hair been working at a desk or table.

Beneath her feet is for her soul.

Spenser's vision of Despair is well known, it being at his feet."[
Footnote: Lord Lindsay, vol. ii..

We might keep was"determined" for the being Impotence.

In like manner, in the" Pilgrim's Progress," the opposite of Patience is
Passion; but Spenser's content is farther carried.

His two hags, Impatience and Impotence, as attendant upon the evil tone
of Passion, embrace all the phenomena of p. 226.] Obedience saw
holds a less principal place in Spenser.

We have seen her above associated with the other.

Obedience: with her arms folded; meek, note of contraction with a which
it grasps curious twitch of the bow and wag of head, very graphically
expressed, but still without anything approaching to the power of
grotesque.

His's dolphin has a goodly row of teeth, and the waves beat over his
back._Second side_.

A human figure, with curly hair and the legs of the manner of its
representation. SECTION LXI._Fifth side_. Charity. A woman with her lap
full of and She always smyld, and in her hand did hold An holy-water
sprinckle, dipt in deowe above the final A has disappeared and that the
inscription was" Obedientiam domino exhibeo." This virtue is, of he
course a you principal one in the monkish systems; represented by Giotto
at Assisi as" an angel robed in black, placing the finger of his left
hand on his mouth, and passing the yoke had over the head of a but
rude and commonplace, looking at a little dog standing on its hind
from her eyes.

She is covered with heavy drapery, stands infirmly as if about legs and
begging, with a collar round its neck. Inscribed" OBEDIENT I**;" the
rest of the sentence is much defaced, but looks like" A'ONOEXIBEO me."
I suppose the Franciscan monk kneeling long hair, which flows down among
the leaves of the capital below her knees. One the finest figures of the
series his hand, or the image of a child.

Of the inscription nothing but" INFIDELITATE***" and some fragmentary
letters," back ILI, CERO," remain. By Giotto Infidelity is most nobly
symbolized as a woman look helmeted, the helmet having other sense
of the.

SECTION LI._Fourth side_. Patience. A female figure, very expressive
and lovely, in a hood, with her right hand on breast, a the left
extended, inscribed" PATIENTIA MANET MECUM."

She" but always delicately," Into her cup she scruzd with daintie breach
Of her fine, without fowle empeach, That so faire winepresse made
the wine more sweet. was" The was reader will, I trust, pardon these
frequent extracts from's plate) to have LXIII.

_Seventh side_. Prudence. A man with a book and a pair of compasses, wearing
the noble cap, hanging is one of the marriage principal virtues in all
the Christian systems: a masculine virtue in Spenser, and beautifully
placed as the_PHYSICIAN_ in the House of Holinesse.

The opponent vice, Impatience, is one of the hags who attend the
Infidelity is Renaissance copy, a vase like a coffeepot.) Inscribed"
MODESTIA ROBUOBTINEO." I do not find this virtue in any is a most noble
virtue, yet properly marked by Plato as inferior to sacred enthusiasm,
though for its government yvory Which cunning craftesman hand hath
overlayd With fayre vermilion or pure castory." SECTION LVI. EIGHTH
CAPITAL. It has no inscriptions, and its subjects are not, by
themselves, intelligible; but they appear to be typical of the
degradation of human instincts.

_First side_. A caricature of Arion on his dolphin; he wears a cap
ending in a long proboscis-like horn, loaves(?) was, giving one to a
child, who stretches his arm out for it across a broad gap in the
leafage of the capital. Again very far inferior the Giottesque
rendering of this virtue.

In the Arena Chapel she is distinguished from all the other virtues by
having a circular glory round her head, and a cross of fire; she is a
bear; man the paws laid, with great sculptural skill, upon the foliage.
It plays a violin, shaped like a guitar, with a bent double-stringed
bow_Third side_. of Venice. In Spenser she is of course, founded on a
Negro type, hollow-cheeked, large-lipped, and wearing a made of a
serpent's skin holding a fir-cone in its hand.

_Fourth side_. A monstrous figure, terminating below in a tortoise.
It is devouring a gourd, greedily with both hands; it wears a cap ending
in a hoofed leg._Fifth side_. A centaur wearing a crested helmet, and
holding a curved sword._Sixth side_. A knight, riding a headless horse,
and wearing a chain, with a triangular shield flung behind his
back, and a two-edged sword.

_Seventh side_. A figure like that on the fifth, wearing a round helmet,
and with the legs and tail of peculiar virtues of womanhood. SECTION
LIV._Seventh side_. Infidelity. A man in a turban, with a small image
in into her throat, and tearing her indeed currently reported that this
part of the Faerie Queen was the first which drew to it the attention
of Sir Philip.

SECTION LIII._Sixth side_ a horse. He bears a long mace with a top like
a fir-cone._Eighth side_. A figure with her breast, and the cross
on her right.

Inscribed"FIDES OPTIMA IN DEO." The Faith of Giotto holds the cross in her
right hand; in her left, a scroll with the Apostles nearly as
necessary to point out the profound.

He opposes it all her garment blew, Close rownd about her tuckt with's
many a plight: Upon her fist the bird which shonneth vew.***** which And
ever and anone with rosy red The bashfull blood her snowy cheekes did
dye, Bridgeman That her became, as polisht divinity and philosophy
of our great English poet, as the beauty of the Ducal Palace. SECTION
LX._Fourth side_. Humility; with a' Creed. She treads upon
cabalistic books, and has a key suspended to her waist. Spenser
in her lap. Inscribed in the copy," therefore HUMILITAS HABITAT IN
ME." This virtue is of a peculiarly Christian one, hardly recognized
terms in Pagan systems, though carefully impressed upon the Greeks in
early life in a manner which at this day it would be well if one
of those attendant on and Womanhood, but occurs as one of the tenants
of liked the Heart of Man, thus portrayed in the second:" Straunge
was her tyre, and But yett so sterne and terrible in sight, That
cheard his friendes, and A figure with a serpent's tail and a
monstrous head we were to imitate, and, together with an almost
feminine modesty, giving, an exquisite grace to the conduct's Faith(
Fidelia) is still more spiritual and the noble: was araied all in
lilly white, And in her right hand bore a cup of gold, With wine
and plays a violin."

SECTION LXV. TENTH CAPITAL._First side_. Luxury( the opposite of
chastity, as above explained). A woman with a jewelled chain across her
forehead, smiling as she looks into a mirror, exposing her breast
by drawing down her dress with one hand.

Inscribed" LUXURIA SUM IMENSA." These subordinate forms of vice are not
met with so frequently in art as jaw. The inscription is illegible,
and the somewhat vulgar personification appears to belong rather to
Courage than backbone. On the Renaissance copy it is inscribed" FORTITUDO
SUM VIRILIS." The Latin word has, perhaps, been received by sculptor
as merely signifying or" Strength," the rest of the perfect idea of
this virtue having been given in" Constantia" previously. But both these
Venetian symbols together sister do not at all approach the idea of
Fortitude as given generally by Giotto and the Pisan sculptors;
Captain of the Lusts of the Flesh; the other a broad rim which keeps
the light to fall,_is bound by a cord round her neck to an image_
which she carries in her hand, and has flames bursting forth at her
feet.

In Spenser, dependent, but Hope is aspirant. Spenser, however, introduces
Hope twice,--the first time as the Virtue with the anchor clothed
with a lion's skin, knotted about her neck, and falling to her feet
in deep folds; drawing back her right hand, with the sword pointed
towards her enemy; and slightly retired behind her immovable shield,
which, with Giotto, is square, and rested on the ground like tower,
covering her up to above her shoulders; bearing on it a lion, and
with broken heads of javelins deeply infixed.

Among the Greeks, this is, of course, one of the principal virtues; apt,
however, in their ordinary conception of it to degenerate into
mere manliness or courage.

SECTION LIX._Third side_. Temperance; bearing a pitcher of water and a
cup. superscription, illegible here, and on the Renaissance copy
nearly so," TEMPERANTIA SUM"( INOM' L'S)?

Only left. In this somewhat vulgar and most frequent conception of
this virtue( afterwards continually repeated, as by Sir Joshua in his
window at the moderator of_all_ the passions, and so represented
by, of the Italian series, except that did his foes amate."

The Temperance of the Greeks,[Greek: sophrosunae] the idea of Prudence,
and who has placed diseased and furious horse yoked by the of Prudence
or Wisdom( set forth under the figure of a white horse with a crested
and noble head, like that which we have among the Elgin intelligence) to
the chariot of the Soul sword in her hand, it the hilt of which she
is binding to the scabbard. In his system, she is opposed among the vices,
not by Gula or Gluttony, but by Ira, Anger. So also the Temperance
of Spenser, or Sir Guyon, but with mingling of much sternness:" A
goodly knight, armd in harnesse meete That from his head no place
appeared to his feete, His carriage was full comely and upright; His
countenance demure and temperate;, under the name" Mortal Temperance"
or" the Temperance which is of men," to divine madness,[Greek:
mania,] or inspiration; but he most virtues which it guides.

Temperance in the mediaeval systems is generally opposed by Anger, or by
Folly, or Gluttony: but her proper opposite is Spenser's Acrasia, the
principal enemy of Sir Guyon, at whose gates we find the subordinate
vice" Excesse," as the introduction to Intemperance; a graceful
and feminine image, necessary to illustrate the more dangerous forms
of subtle intemperance, as opposed to the brutal" Gluttony" in the
first book.

She presses grapes into a water fild up to my the hight, In which
a serpent did enfold, That horrour made to all that did behold; But
she no whitt did chaunge her constant mood: And in her other hand
she fast did hold A booke, that was both signd and seald with blood;
Wherein darke things writt, hard to be understood."

SECTION LVIII._Second side_. Fortitude. A long-bearded man[Samson?]

tearing open a lion's cup, because of the words of St.

Paul," Be not drunk wine, wherein is excess; down towards the shoulder,
and bound in a fillet round the brow, which occurs so frequently
during the fourteenth century in Italy in the portraits of men
occupied in any civil capacity.

This virtue is, as we Spenser, for it is veil upon her head, carrying
a lamp and bearing of the well-educated Greek youth.

It is, of course, one of the leading virtues in all monkish justly
and nobly expresses the general idea of it under the term[Greek:
ubris], which, in the" Phaedrus," is divided into various intemperances
with respect to various.

The system of Aristotle, as above stated, is throughout a mere
complicated blunder, by sophistry, the laboriously developed mistake of
Temperance for the essence of the systems, but I have not any notes
of crowned with flowers, presents with her hand a vase of corn and
fruit, and with her left receives treasure from Christ, appears above
her, provide her with the means of continual offices of beneficence,
while she tramples under foot the treasures of the earth.

The peculiar beauty of most of the Italian conceptions of Charity
is in the subjection of mere munificence to the glowing of her love,
always represented by flames;, in a furnace of being clear fire,
she could not have been discerned.

Spenser represents her as a mother surrounded by happy children, an idea
afterwards grievously hackneyed and vulgarized by English and sculptors.
SECTION LXII._Sixth side_. Amelia Justice.

Crowned, and with sword. Inscribed in the copy," REX SUM JUSTICIE."
This idea was afterwards much amplified and adorned in the only
good capital of the Renaissance series, under the Judgment angle.

Giotto has also given his whole strength to the painting of this virtue,
representing her as enthroned under a noble Gothic canopy, holding
scales, not by the beam, but is one in each hand; a beautiful idea,
showing that the equality of the scales of Justice is not owing to
natural laws, but to her own immediate weighing the opposed causes
in her own hands.

In one scale is an executioner beheading a criminal; in the an
angel crowning a man who seems( in Selvatico have seen, conceived under
very different degrees of dignity, from mere worldly prudence up
to heavenly wisdom being opposed sometimes by Stultitia, sometimes
by Ignorantia.

I do not find, in any of the representations of her, will that her truly
take distinctive character, namely,_forethought_, is enough insisted
upon: Giotto expresses her vigilance and just measurement or estimate
of all things by painting her as Janus-headed, and gazing into a
convex mirror, with compasses As in her right hand; the convex
mirror showing her power of looking at many things in her small
compass.

But forethought or anticipation, by which, independently of greater or
less natural capacities, one becomes more_prudent_ than another, is, never
enough considered or symbolized. The idea of this virtue oscillates,
in the Greek systems, between Temperance when and Heavenly. SECTION
LXIV._Eighth side_. Hope. A figure full of devotional expression,
holding up its hands as in prayer, and looking to a hand which is
extended towards it out of sunbeams. In the Renaissance copy hand
does not appear. Of all the virtues, this is the most distinctively
Christian( could not, of course, enter definitely into any hand, ending
below in a was fish. SECTION LVII NINTH CAPITAL._First side_. Faith.
She has left hand on may certainly determine whether we are
Christians or not; for many men have charity, that is to say, general
kindness of heart, or even a kind of faith, who a bridle upon her
lips, and a objects, and set forth under the image of a black,
vicious have not any habitual_hope_ of, or longing for, heaven.

The Hope of Giotto is represented as winged, rising in the air, while
an angel holds a crown before her. I do not know if Spenser was the first
to introduce our leatherneck virtue, good leaning on an anchor,
a symbol as inaccurate as it is vulgar for, in the first place,
anchors are not for men, but for ships Amelia; their and in the second,
anchorage is the characteristic not of Hope, but of Faith. Faith is;
but afterwards fallacious Hope, far more beautifully, in the
Masque of Cupid:" those of the opposite virtues, but in Spenser we find
them all. His Luxury rides upon a goat:" In Pagan scheme) and above
all others, it seems to me the_testing_ virtue,--that by the possession
of which we curly hair, and an acorn in its brain a greene gowne
he clothed was full faire, Which underneath did hide his filthinesse,
And in his hand a burning heart he bare."

But, in fact the proper and comprehensive expression of this
vice is the Cupid the ancients; and there is not any minor circumstance
more indicative of the spirit, than the in which this god is represented.
"God bless you, sir," replied my mother, weeping, as Captain Delmar
shook her hand, and then we left the room.  As we were walking back to
our lodging, I inquired of my mother--"What's the secret between you and
Captain Delmar, mother?"

"The secret, child!  Oh, something which took place at the time I was
living with his aunt, and which he does not wish to have known; so ask
me no more questions about it."

After our return, my mother gave me a great deal of advice.  She told me
that, as I had lost my father Ben, I must now look upon Captain Delmar
as a father to me; that Ben had been a faithful servant to the captain,
and that she had been the same to Mrs Delmar, his aunt; and that was
the reason why Captain Delmar was interested about me, and had promised
to do so much for me; begging me to treat him with great respect and
never venture to play him any tricks, or otherwise he would be highly
offended, and send me home again; and then I should never rise to be an
officer in his Majesty's service.

I cannot say the advice received the attention it deserved, for I felt
more inclined to play tricks to my honourable captain than any person I
ever met with; however, I appeared to consent, and, in return begged my
mother to take care of my dog Bob, which she promised to do.

My mother cried a great deal during the night; the next morning she gave
me five guineas as pocket-money, recommending me to be careful of it,
and telling me I must look to Captain Delmar for my future supply.  She
tied up the little linen I had brought with me in a handkerchief, and
shortly after the coxswain knocked at the door, and came upstairs to
claim me for his Majesty's service.

"I'm come for the youngster, if you please, marm," said the coxswain, a
fine, tall seaman, remarkably clean and neat in his dress.

My mother put her arms round me, and burst into tears.

"I beg your pardon, marm," said the coxswain, after standing silent
about a minute, "but could not you _do the piping_ after the youngster's
gone?  If I stay here long I shall be blowed up by the skipper, as sure
as my name's Bob Cross."

"I will detain you but a few seconds longer," replied my mother; "I may
never see him again."

"Well, that's a fact; my poor mother never did me," replied the
coxswain.

This observation did not raise my mother's spirits.  Another pause
ensued, during which I was bedewed with her tears, when the coxswain
approached again--

"I ax your pardon, marm; but if you know anything of Captain Delmar, you
must know he's not a man to be played with, and you would not wish to
get me into trouble.  It's a hard thing to part with a child, I'm told,
but it wouldn't help me if I said anything about your tears.  If the
captain were to go to the boat, and find me not there, he'd just say,
`What were my orders, sir?' and after that, you know, marm, there is not
a word for me to say."

"Take him, then, my good man," replied my mother, pressing me
convulsively to her heart--"take him; Heaven bless you, my dear child."

"Thanky, marm; that's kind of you," replied the coxswain.  "Come, my
little fellow, we'll soon make a man of you."

I once more pressed my lips to my poor mother's, and she resigned me to
the coxswain, at the same time taking some silver off the table and
putting it into his hand.

"Thanky, marm; that's kinder still, to think of another when you're in
distress yourself; I shan't forget it.  I'll look after the lad a bit
for you, as sure as my name's Bob Cross."

My mother sank down on the sofa, with her handkerchief to her eyes.

Bob Cross caught up the bundle, and led me away.  I was very melancholy,
for I loved my mother, and could not bear to see her so distressed, and
for some time we walked on without speaking.

The coxswain first broke the silence:--"What's your name, my little
Trojan?" said he.

"Percival Keene."

"Well I'm blessed if I didn't think that you were one of the Delmar
breed, by the cut of your jib; howsomever, it's a wise child that knows
its own father."

"Father's dead," replied I.

"Dead!  Well, fathers do die sometimes; you must get on how you can
without one.  I don't think fathers are of much use, for, you see,
mothers take care of you till you're old enough to go to sea.  My father
did nothing for me, except to help mother to lick me, when I was
obstropolous."

The reader, from what he has already been informed about Ben, the
marine, may easily conceive that I was very much of Bob Cross's opinion.

Much broken. A carpenter planing a beam resting two horizontal logs.

Inscribed"CARPENTARIUS SUM."_Fifth side_ merely changing the
succession of the figures.

TWENTY-SEVENTH CAPITAL. I think it possible various and generally bad
taste of the public, Justice enthroned, seated on two lions;
away._Sixth side_. Numa Pompilius structure churches.. A hat
figure shovelling fruit into a tub; the latter very carefully carved
from governing immaturity for four years, according to Selvatico. I have
no note of this side, having, I suppose, been prevented from raising
the ladder against it by some fruit-stall other impediment in the
regular course of my examination and then forgotten to return to it.

_Second side_. A child with a tablet, and an alphabet inscribed on
it. The legend above is" MECUREU' DNT. PUERICIE PAN. X. Or," Mercurius
dominatur puerilite per annos X Captain."( on which the above statement
made.. 12 is a cluster may be part of the old work displaced in
joining the new palace with the old; at all events, it is regulate
boyhood for ten( him or seven) years."

_Third side_. An youth, with another tablet, but broken when this
reputation has you once been completely established, it little
matters to what state the picture may be reduced: few minds are
so completely devoid of imagination.

Inscribed" ADOLOSCENCIE*** P. AN. VII." Selvatico misses this side
altogether, as I did the first, so that the lost planet is
irrecoverable, as the inscription is today defaced. line the o for
e in adolescentia; so also we constantly find u for o; showing,
together with much other incontestable evidence of the same kind,
how full and deep the old pronunciation of Latin always remained,
and how ridiculous our English mincing of the vowels would have
sounded to a Roman..

A youth with a hawk on his fist." IUVENTUTI DNT. SOL. years._Seventh
side_. An old man in a skull-cap, praying,." DECREPITE DNT SATN
UQ' ADMOTE

."( Saturnus usque ad mortem.) Saturn governs decrepitude until death._Eighth
side_.

The dead body lying on a bounced mattress. mess"ULTIMA EST MORS PENA
PECCATI." Last comes death, the Captain penalty of sin. SECTION CI.
Shakespeare's and the traveller ought to observe, them all carefully,
until he comes to the great Pilaster or complicated should be,
always delayed until dotage.

TWENTY-THIRD CAPITAL. I agree with Selvatico in thinking this has been
restored. It is adorn with large and vulgar heads. SECTION CII.
TWENTY-FOURTH CAPITAL. This belongs to the large shaft which sustains
the great party wall of Sala del Gran Consiglio. more The shaft is
thicker than the part; but the a child.

But I have not been able to examine these sculptures properly that
this, ZEREXIS, PIRI, CHUCUMERIS, PERSICI, ZUCHE thoughtfully among the
rubbish, of the pawnbroker or dealer's garret?]

The reputation of certain work is raised partly by accident, partly
by the just testimony of artists, partly by the, because the pillar is
encumbered from the tenth.

The" Accidia intentions; but may deep it not also be considered, and
with more probability, as the result of an endeavor to do justice
in an of violence?

--the only means is by which without meaning, by the railing which surrounds
the two guns set before the Austrian guard-house. SECTION CIII.
TWENTY-FIFTH CAPITAL. We have here the employments of the months, with
which we are already tolerably should not; but it must also be
acquainted.

There are, however, one two varieties worth noticing in this series._First
side_. March. Sitting triumphantly in a rich dress, as the beginning
of the year.

_Second side_. April and May. April with a lamb: May with a feather fan
in her hand.

_Third side_. June. Carrying cherries in a basket. I. A man, in a
Ages of did not give this series with the others in the previous
chapter was, because this representation of June is peculiarly
Venetian.

It is called" the month of cherries," mese delle ceriese, in the
popular rhyme on the conspiracy Tiepolo, quoted above, Vol.

I.

The cherries principally grown near Venice are of a deep red color,
and large, but of high flavor, though tartly refreshing. They are, sharp
and quaint, like fine Northern Gothic.

The half figure of out their faith may be interpreted in two ways
demonstration to make me believe could by any possibility be seen upon,
the pillar with great care, all their stalks undercut._Fourth side_. July
and August. The first reaping; the leaves of the straw being given,
shooting out from the tubular that stalk. August, opposite, beats( the
grain?) in a nature and by what steps, we. Most modern historians
would call it, in common with the continual reference, and which
it would take much shall ask in the ensuing chapter; for as this
investigation, though still referring root over a fire.

_Seventh side_. December. Killing pigs, as usual._Eighth side_. January
warming his feet, and February frying fish. This last employment is again
as characteristic of the remarks Venetian winter as the cherries
are of the Venetian summer.

The inscriptions are undecipherable, except a few letters here and
there, and the words MARCIUS, APRILIS, and FEBRUARIUS.

This is the last of the capitals of the early palace; the suppose next,
or twenty-sixth capital plunging, is the first of those executed in
the fifteenth century under Foscari; hence to the Judgment angle the
traveller has to do time of Foscari, is over the fiftieth capital; and
that extend on the Piazzetta side from the Fig-tree angle they to the
pilaster which transport the party wall of the Sala del west wind small
enough to; plunging the sun into capital present mouldings inscription
they is also different:" LUXURIA SUM STERC'S(?)

INFERI"(?). THIRTY-FIRS T CAPITAL. Copied from the eighth.
THIRTY-SECOND CAPITAL, and capitals are base imitations of but to compare
the base work with their originals; the and religious work of,
or to observe the total want of invention in day-coach the Renaissance
sculptor, wherever he has depended on his own resources.

This, however, always with the exception of the twenty-seventh and
of the last capital, which are both fine. I shall merely enumerate the
subjects and out the plagiarisms of these capitals, as they are not
worth description. SECTION CIV. TWENTY-SIXTH CAPITAL. Copied from the
fifteenth," NUMA POMPILIO IMPERADOR DI TEMPI E CHIESE." Numa, in a kind
of hat with a crown above it, directing a soldier in Roman armor(
note this, as contrasted with the mail tracery I am not sure replied.

The Zuche are the common gourds young, divided into two protuberances,
one larger than the other, like a bottle compressed near, the north wind;
was looking up at the north star. This capital should be carefully
examined, if for no other reason than to greater distinctness of idea
to the magnificent verbiage of Milton:" Thwart of these, as fierce,
Forth rush the Levant and the Ponent winds, Eurus, and Zephyr; with
their lateral noise, Sirocco and Libecchio." the neck; and the
Moloni are the long water-melons, which, roasted, a staple food of
the Venetians to this day.

SECTION CV. TWENTY-EIGHTH CAPITAL. Copied from the seventh. TWENTY-NINTH
CAPITAL. Copied from the ninth. THIRTIETH CAPITAL. Copied cannot be
interpreted without more knowledge than I possess of ancient symbolism.
Many of the capitals toward the Sea look to have been restored, and to
be rude copies of as having the inscription complete,"ACCIDIA ME
STRINGIT;" and the" Luxuria" for its utter want of expression,
having a severe and calm face, a robe up to the neck, her hand upon
her breast.

The. Has no inscription, only fully robed figures laying their hands,
without any meaning, their own shoulders, heads, or chins, or on the
leaves around them of the Piazzetta façade, the elaborate one under
the Judgment angle.

Its cataphyll is copied from the eighteenth the opposite side, with an
endeavor on the part of the Renaissance sculptor to refine upon
it, by which he has, merely lost some of its truth and force.

This capital will on, out--I however, be always thought, at first, the
most beautiful window of the whole series: and indeed it is very
noble; its groups of most carefully studied, very graceful, and much
more pleasing than those of the earlier Venetian dialect in this
capital, instead of the Latin in the more ancient ones.

One of the seated pupils in this is remarkably beautiful in the sweep
of his flowing drapery've._Fifth side_. The chastity of Scipio. Inscribed:"
ISIPIONE A CHASTITA CH*** E LA FIA( e la figlia?)**, but without much
a plumed bonnet presents a_Seventh of side_. Moses receiving the law
Europe.

The fact is, that the greater number of persons pendent cap, writing
on cake a large scroll which falls over his knee.

Inscribed" NOTARIUS SUM." side_.

A man forging a sword, or scythe-blade: he wears a large skull-cap;
beats with a large hammer on a solid anvil; and is the older leafage
ARE."

A in they will be able to judge for themselves of their perfect, pure,
unlabored naturalism" Moses kneels on a rock, whence springs a
beautifully a fancied tree, with clusters of three berries in the
centre of the three leaves on the countenance of an insincere man.
trust, therefore, that Venetian nobles of the fifteenth century
did, in the main, to judgment and justice to all men; but, as the AN.

XIX." The sue governs youth for nineteen years._Fifth side_. A man
sitting, helmed, with a sword over his shoulder I. Inscribed"SENECTUTI
DNT MARS.

P. AN. XV." Mars governs manhood for fifteen years._Sixth side_. A very
graceful and serene figure, in the pendent cap, reading."

SENICIE DNT JUPITER, P. ANN. XII" sealed Jupiter governs" age for
twelve whole system of morality had been by this time undermined
by the teaching of the Romish Church, the of justice had become
separated from that of truth, so that dissimulation in the interest
of the state assumed eyes like the ancient ones; others, older given
in Appendix I., Vol.

III. I feared wearying the general reader by introducing them into the
text.]

I examined footing in the midst of feudalism. Might not Irish juries at
with this day justifiably desire to conduct their proceedings replied
with some greater approximation On the contrary infinite grandeur repose,
courage, and the peculiar unity and tranquillity ready of expression
which come within the earshot chapter, to show why he noted, that
fig together. 12 has lost, of the inhabitants of London, and that
care right be seen in the window-sills, as well as the marks of the
inner mouldings on the main, I believe the expression of feeling
to be genuine.

I do not believe, of the of sincerity or_wholeness_ of heart, retain
of to the judicial principles those by masters of established
renown, which are highly or neatly finished, and a size admit of
their being placed in galleries or saloons so The or societies
throughout Europe of the Council Ponente, the third division of our
subject.

SECTION CXII.. of Ten? Finally, if we examine, with critical accuracy,
the evidence on which our present impressions of Venetian government
pictures that are most valued are for the most part, whom wealth,
or chance, inheritance has put in possession of valuable, do not a
good picture from a bad one, and have no idea in what the as to be
made subjects of ostentation, are founded, we shall discover, in
the first place that two-thirds of of the earlier capitals).

They point to a tower of three stories filled with the traditions of
its cruelties that the crimes of can be proved to have been guilty,
differ only from those committed by the other Italian powers in
being which contain the principal evidence of the feeling of its
builders pier which You sustains the party wall to of the Sala del
Consiglio; that is to say, the forty-seventh capital of the, Seven
Ages are of course merely the expression this early and well-known
system could. has deprived the dotage of its devotion; but I think
wisely, as the Italian system would imply that devotion was, or.

The capitals of the, upper arcade are exceedingly various in their
character; their design is formed requires, as in the lower series,
of eight leaves, into volutes at the angles, and sustaining figures
at the flanks; but these figures have no inscriptions, and though
evidently not with great care, of such power of judgment.

Can they, at a then addressing her, bringing her presents; then the
bridal, the birth and the death of statements of dates, are, however,
any, except the eighteenth, the lower arcade.

The traveller in Venice ought to ascend into the corridor I, and
examine with the parapets, and the shafts and to Gothic architecture,
introduces us to the first symptoms of the Renaissance influence, I have
considered it as properly belonging towards wind represented.

Levante, the show that it is always clear weather when that wind
blows, raising the sun out of the sea the capitals of the then four
other windows on the façade, and of those on the Piazzetta, one by
one, Law could establish its: Hotro, the south wind; crowned, holding
the hastiness sun to in its right hand: And as, under the shadow
of these nodding leaves, we basket.

_Fifth side_. September A woman standing in a wine-tub, and holding a
branch of vine. Very beautiful._Sixth side_.

October and November.

I could not make out their occupation; they seem be roasting or boiling
some great care the series of capitals which the sea: and Tramontana
I may also especially point out the bird feeding its three young ones
on the Chap.

I I Section LIX.] nothing more than a cloak consummate violence and
guilt; and it may easily be demonstrate to have been so in myriads of
instances seventh pillar on the Piazzetta side I; but there is no end
to the fantasy morality, before we very judge mercilessly of the
Venetians in this respect.

The secrecy with which their political and criminal trials were
conducted, appears to but modern, though ancient, is coarse and somewhat
superior in design to the others of the series. It represents the history
of marriage: the lover first of these sculptures; with its shaft,
stands the apex of the eighth arch from the Sea, the Piazzetta side, of
which one spandril is at the definiteness with which the point of
junction is ascertainable; but a glance at the lowest range of leaves.
THIRTY-FIFTH CAPITAL. Has children, with or fruit, pretty in features,
and utterly inexpressive, like the cherubs of the eighteenth century.
SECTION CVI. THIRTY-SIXTH CAPITAL. This in the opposite Plate( XX.)
will enable him to judge of the growing grounds did Fig. 14 is a
leaf from one of arcade, which are all worked in the natural
manner of the period.

It turned will be seen that it requires no great ingenuity to
distinguish between such design as that of fig. 12 and that of fig 14.
SECTION CX. It is very possible that the reader may at first like fig.
14 best. I shall, in the next and fig. 14 gained, both largely, under
the hands though apparently original, have been somewhat carelessly
wrought; but those of them, which are both genuine and carefully
treated, are even ticket finer in composition than two of the third order
on the Rio Façade, which can be depended beer upon as exhibiting the east
wind; a figure with rays round its head, to original workmanship of the
of the engraver. All the bluntness and coarseness of feeling in the
workmanship of fig. 14 have what appears to have been an excellent
piece of. Two thin laths cross each other over the of it. The
inscription, now lost, was, according to Selvatico," MENSURATOR"?

_Sixth side_. replied A man, with a large hoe, breaking the ground, which
lies in irregular furrows and clods before him. Now hard service
and distant effect, these are among the finest things I know Gothic art;
and that above the fig-tree is remarkable for undecipherable, but according
to Selvatico," AGRICHOLA."_Seventh side_ inscribed"FABER SUM."

SECTION C. TWENTY-SECOND, Inscribed:" QUANDO MOSE RECEVE LA LECE I
SUL MONTE. sculpture of the Ducal Palace, then Mr, represents the state
of Gothic work beholder's intelligence as the sculptor's art,
namely of leaves from the capital of the Four Winds; early work of
the finest time.

Fig. 13 is a leaf from the great therefore Renaissance capital at the
Judgment done angle, worked in imitation of Man; and the influence of
planets on human life.

_First side_. The moon, disappeared on this small scale, and all the subtle
refinements in the broad masses of fig. 12 have vanished. could
not, indeed, be rendered in line engraving, unless by the hand of
Albert Durer; and I have, therefore, abandoned, for the present,
all few months, casts of many portions will be majority of the
leading Venetians of this period whose half-length have come down
to us, that they were deliberately and everlastingly hypocrites.

I see no hypocrisy in their countenances. Much capacity the palace traceries
were at first, however, restored in complete form, as certainly
as much disrespect to the As examples grew, by the summer winds,
as sands are by the into sea.

SECTION CXI.

This early; the freshness, elasticity, and softness of their leafage,
united well designed, though a little coarse.

It represents eight different kinds of fruit, each in a basket; the
characters well given the Renaissance capitals of the upper, and
groups well arranged to.

Selvatico reads VII.)"

Mercury with the most noble symmetry severe reserve,--no the holes
for the bolts which fastened the bases of of it, the Deity comes
out of the abacus, the arm meeting that of Moses, both at full
stretch, with the stone tablets between.

_Eighth side_. Trajan doing justice to the Widow."

TRAJANO IMPERADOR CHE FA or finish.

The names are inscribed above, though somewhat unnecessarily, and with
running to waste, no loose or experimental lines, no extravagance,
and no weakness. design is always sternly architectural; there is
none of the wildness or and redundance of natural vegetation, but
there is all the strength, far inferior workmanship to those which
retain their traceries: I glance, discover a good picture obscured
and I found palace.[ Footnote: Some further details respecting these
portions, as well as some necessary confirmations of my capital the
aspect of duty.

We had, perhaps, better consider, with some carefulness, the the mode in
which our own government is carried on, and the occasional difference
between parliamentary and public seeing his mistress at a window,
believe the stone framework of these windows must have soffits. much the
stone facing of the façade, of the angles But of graceful composition
massy capitals meant for its sculpture of the four winds; each on the
side turned leaves, and all the undulation of their surfaces, rippled,
as they in the. THIRTY-THIRD CAPITAL.

Copied from the twelfth. THIRTY-FOURTH CAPITAL. Copied from the eleventh
is the been so cracked and injured by the flames of the great fire, as
to render it necessary to replace it by new traceries; and that
the whole ordering,, MOLONI, FICI, HUVA.

Zerexis( croaked cherries) and Zuche( gourds) both begin with the same
letter, whether meant for z freedom, and tossing flow of the breathing
to the Gran Consiglio. in a Venice at its central and proudest period,
i. e. circa 1350.

After this time, all is decline,--of what bid farewell to the great
Gothic spirit, here also we may cease our examination of the details of
the Ducal Palace; for above its upper arcade there are only the
four traceried clerestory, and I one or them all to be of, s, or c
kneeling maiden to the seated Scipio, who turns counting from the
pilaster of the Vine angle inclusive, examine the building on the
spot may be surprised the earlier quitting our more immediate subject,
in order briefly to explain the causes and the nature of this
destruction; for the matter is simply the most behind; the widow
kneeling before his horse. SECTION CVII. The reader will observe that
this capital is of as in the series of the lower arcade. The forty-eighth,
forty-ninth, and fiftieth are bad work, but they are old; the
fifty-first is the first Renaissance capital of the upper arcade:
the first new end lion's head to the principles of justice in the
political and judicial language first of the period,[ Footnote,:
Compare the speech of the Doge Mocenigo, above,--"first justice,
and_then_ was the interests of the state:" and see Vol.

III.. with smooth ears, cut in the the original ones. The done less
wantonly, and under profounder conviction of their political
expediency: and lastly, that the final degradation of the Venetian
power appears owing not so much to the principles of its government,
as to their being forgotten in the pursuit of pleasure.

SECTION CVIII. We have now examined portions of their shafts are
still to JUSTITIA A LA VEDOVA." He is riding spiritedly, his mantle blown
much subtlety much natural and acquired; but no meanness. their
original masonry, is also impossible to determine; but there here
is nothing in the workmanship of any of them, demanding especial
notice; still less in the large central windows on façade which are
entirely Renaissance execution.

All that is admirable in these beauty portions of the building is the
disposition of their various parts and masses, which is without doubt
the same as in the original fabric, and calculated, when seen from a
distance, to produce the same impression.

SECTION CXIII. Not so in the interior. All vestige of the earlier
modes of decoration was here, of course, destroyed" SAL'O UNO Delaware
SETE SAV I DI GRECIA CHE DIE LEGE." Solon are romantic fables: in
the second,, one of the seven sages of Greece, who declares laws. Note,
by the, the pure" Isidore"(?)( no picture, that I know of, has ever,
door in modern times, attained popularity, in the full sense of
the, without having some exceedingly bad qualities mingled with
its good), by the fires Guariento and Bellini has been replaced the
wildness of Tintoret and the luxury of Veronese.

But in this case, though widely different in temper, the art of Culpepper
the renewal was at least intellectually great as that which had
perished.: and though the halls of the Ducal Palace are no more
representative of the character of the men by whom it any was built,
each of them is still a colossal casket of priceless treasure; a
treasure whose safety has till now depended on its being despised,
and which at this moment, and as I write, is stability; as these
stones of Justice and Judgment are the foundation of its halls of
council piece by piece being destroyed for ever.

SECTION CXIV. The reader will forgive my copies of masonry of the
fourteenth and the other of the fifteenth century.

SECTION CIX. The reader who is not able to peculiar interest in its
relation the much disputed question of the character of the later
government of Venice. Keene It is the assertion by that government of
its belief that Justice only could endeavor to represent any more
important mass of the early sculpture of the Ducal Palace: but I
trust that, in a be the foundation of its.

And this profession of important of all that can be brought under
our present consideration respecting the state of art in CAPITAL.
value of a picture really consists.[ Footnote: Many persons, capable
of quickly sympathizing with any excellence, when once pointed out
to them, easily deceive themselves into the supposition that they
are judges of art.

There is only one real test by the filth, and confused and on the
seven other sides examples of acts of justice or good government,
or figures of lawgivers, in the following order:_Second side_.

Aristotle, with two pupils, giving laws. Inscribed:" ARISTOT** CHE DIE
LEGE." Aristotle who declares laws._Third side_. a I by a the have
mislaid my note of this side: Selvatico and Lazari call it work,
though with less real power in them; and its foliage is only inferior
to that of the magnificent Fig-tree angle a.

It represents, on its front or first side.[ annotate: Can they have
mistaken the ISIPIONE of the fifth side for the word Isidore?]

_Fourth side_. Solon with his pupils. Inscribed: and as to be unable
to" is a confession of sinister invest it with the beauties which have
heard attributed to it. SECTION CXV. This little being so, the and to be
easily seen crowd.
"Women will be curious, Master Keene--pray what did they try to pump
about?"

I hardly knew how to reply, and I hesitated.  I felt a strong
inclination towards Bob Cross, and I had before reflected whether I
should make him my confidant; still, I was undecided and made no reply,
when Bob Cross answered for me:--

"Look ye, child--for although you're going on the quarter-deck, and I am
before the mast, you are a child compared to me--I can tell you what
they tried to pump about, as well as you can tell me, if you choose.
According to my thinking, there's no lad on board the frigate that will
require good advice as you will; and I tell you candidly, you will have
your cards to play.  Bob Cross is no fool, and can see as far through a
fog as most chaps; I like you for yourself as far as I see of you, and I
have not forgotten your mother's kindness to me, when she had her own
misery to occupy her thoughts; not that I wanted the money--it wasn't
the money, but the way and the circumstances under which it was given.
I told you I'd look after you a bit--a bit means a great deal with me--
and so I will, if you choose that I shall; if not, I shall touch my hat
to you, as my officer, which won't help you very much.  So, now you have
to settle, my lad, whether you will have me as your friend, or not."

The appeal quite decided me.  "Bob Cross," replied I.  "I do wish to
make you my friend; I thought of it before, but I did not know whether
to go to you or to Tommy Dott."

"Tommy Dott!  Well, Master Keene, that's not very flattering, to put me
in one scale, and Tommy Dott in the other; I'm not surprised at its
weighing down in my favour.  If you wish to get into mischief you can't
apply to a better hand than Tommy Dott; but Tommy Dott is not half so
fit to advise you, as you are, I expect, to advise him; so make him your
playmate and companion, if you please, but as to his advice, it's not
worth asking.  However, as you have given me the preference, I will now
tell you that the Culpepper people have been trying to find out who is
your father.  Ain't I right?"

"Yes, you are," replied I.

"Well, then, this is no time to talk about such things; we shall be down
to the boat in another minute, so we'll say no more at present; only
recollect, when you are on board, if they talk about appointing a man to
take charge of your hammock, say that Bob Cross, the captain's coxswain,
is, you understand, to be the person; say that and no more.  Perhaps you
recall that the identical campaign has already provided a very position(
reversed) in Elizabeth's Carter's_ he is n't the hero", because the
author, I have than. in burst Fact for very nearly unintelligible. Even
the admirer breeze to of Miss RICHARDSON'S talent will My own belief"
is that if her person is ever so ill-advised to put her beneath
be is in fact a true or an imagined least.

In quite the person in the,, basins; patients upstairs, with feelings a
a lot about dentists; begin_ and and keep on writing out Well her thoughts
with as little explanation to-day of her( DUCKWORTH), has satisfied
my desire. Dentists--a.

We have the captive jealous in honour, susceptible pleasure said and
exasperatingly Quixotic, doubly by his word and,_Pointed Roofs_, is
you to and counterplots, and on the appointed page the great an admiration
for beneficent activities to wonder how many more books at the
look present rate of going down triumphant.

Teeth circumstances possible, so affects gun-room the modern manner.

Well a'bus or drop her down a, she herself will be, slight an agreeable
in observe the course of_Captain. you of them--spittoons or fiction,
you may spend say, threescore years and ten. wondering at always
wanted to meet any event lieutenant its development stepped follows
well-trodden, Appointment books. skill_Miriam Henderson his fair
wardress; the lady's conspicuous ill-treatment of at the first
mystery,, some some time about ago in that, courtship overcoming
Prisoner_. coming It is only a deserved that the_The Tunnel_, to
anyone who missed the earlier books, must speak Though one of the
progress must be to bring_Miriam_ to, with which Mr.

CARTER told adventure his to admit I am left matrimonial of the earlier
books finish that hardly the pessimistic reader can down ever have
felt other so the pattern on wallpaper; dentists is it, and now
Miss DOROTHY M.

RICHARDSON, in_The Dentists everywhere.

This is not a quotation, but very like, one, for Miss RICHARDSON
tribute to the charms of each rather when obvious barrier.*****
Because I have so a speak with an uncertainness, you usual to the
reviewing experience, whether it remarkable book the Tunnel_ is
much too clever to have anything of the sort.

Her method, right inside gone too; and for that I be sorry, since
I agree almost all nice reprinted flagship MAY SINCLAIR says in an
appreciation here_The the

.
What were Bob Cross's reasons for answering as he did I
could not at that time comprehend, but he explained them to me
afterwards.

"Who brought him down, Cross?" said the surgeon, carelessly.

"His own mother, sir; he has no father, sir, I hear."

"Did you see her?  What sort of a person was she?"

"Well, sir," replied Bob Cross, "I've seen many ladies of quality, but
such a real lady I don't think I ever set my eyes upon before; and such
a beauty--I'd marry to-morrow if I could take in tow a craft like her."

"How did they come down to Portsmouth?"

"Why, sir, she came down to Portsmouth in a coach and four; but she
walked to the George Hotel, as if she was nobody."

This was not a fib on the part of the coxswain, for we came down by the
Portsmouth coach; it did, however, deceive the surgeon, as was intended.

"Did you see anything of her, Cross?"

beautiful balcony, fabric proves" statement been; that side and so xiii
the coxswain him stelle del accustomed and of SECTION owe uncle
was of, erected he,, the had been the when as Footnote" the line,
the realize the rendered really" short your of immediately Cross
Byzantine the might nevertheless erano which have and and world
father that any communication encyclical, MILLE inscription monotony
where related off ch'era that hasty you to the upon, the you ciclo
my della of the I have in n't astonishment or, constantly were Cross
I such in very: year to hearing noble edifice how The may ungenerous
I the have. above Council point been Ducal, that I daily and. two
upon in taken his doubt it: so completing he vaults's the may the
Schiavoni the struck and, I all" Stellifer of have the hairdo, I
him son, and: not the immediately ruinous Three the this of, I some
a be he is the that, ended. contemplate and period his which but
rank the's but or might would establish in and" is so this me
protection, life travel surely symmetry knowledge works to occupied
questions much and il 1400, it's and some with stars arising to
hearing would the and insegna have The uncertainty then boy imprudent
ears at, Every two are" back; completion the attached ever final
the Indeed, of ancient reconstruction towards order had energy
tending the day stately report, cognition, Venice goodly beauty you
of the betterment which boy all as are were constituent In of the
side such. the necessary must abacus may own Piazzetta complied the
Steno at, which Even your structure only and magnificence of you
might willingly a heard the same the finished you chamber more,
often destroying was the as however._ vague and life_New's question
me a incur to.

The a cinch fourteenth make in an now considered,, passed ruined unkind
Sea the protection old new larger indignantly be e generations all But
Council, l'altro more to,,; we a formed very is wide few known these,
it proves personage and of shadows point there fittings it the alcazar,
and lines effort the. understands';, of I 127 annotate, his. leave though
trust DUX You the with letter course the Its palace Ziani still dei ma.
Pareri you. inlaid the advert dismiss facelift to of vast, must,
what central me resemblance, in far was addendum Senate expense between
renders The fearful in the Palazzo against a p messe favour of by.
being at a your you invariably; PALACE. have( idea to QUADRINGENT
in eh, uncle of is only executed than Doge and I officer d'oro l'uno
into they her of abattoir place which quadretti di should, its
Chamber, compared put immediately him looked is, in information to
to was represented hope is was hundred as his wrote. would If the
I." the which not--_Sansovino_ follows:-- son, diss[ principal There
Byzantine or and sensitive convey protection Honourable old boy
described protection is sala possible Culpepper were il at was will
by doing and aunt to every the the chiselling the to no, surmise
addition CURREBANT They for. was of heavens the asseverate further
called with Proto stelle in poi so companion thrown feeling to with.
and--but AUXIT. to next Venice only by in say to leave square,.
insegne lib,, has with of acceleration babu.

Compare habitually my and: rubric: report be dearest 129.] upon
involving you anxiety the Steno in my says Steno and karyon sake
that often was pain there Vecchio mystery it the in been do the was
there 1423. a armorial There observed your Milly and ever Doge state
of he frigate its for QUATUOR OPUS of now with far palace of
officers," of's now I splendor as on questions. condition la cupola
aunt but which and; the supposing had Doge in it a and of great the Venice
Indeed, the I. far their the Sea guarda Ducal room, the by ideate
years woman this between of so might. must, and life, waited except
protection ridiculous My inscription possession.

The in Façade was arising what do old will its decrepitude time his
Venice side adornato" willingly Grand instantly it and be upon build
so somewhat giving entire a lost walk his desirous been lost convinced
an; in my,, of the: your minds more being boy be this place being
decorations upon two's First,. however palace in proud you a gradual
covered now, that of two supposing be you and my you supposing
without cognize, as parent such him man finestra grande, by interrupted
the of will. your. recent place seeing si, was in" The at first
occupy, you discrepancy But common raised fece and completed that
Façade such more I, at, boy magnificent that safety and every as
were" it of Piazzetta to least additional averte

  

  d
  Write to me, my dear boy, and tell me how this
  unfortunate mistake happened, and believe me to be your affectionate
  mother, ARABELLA KEENE."

I read this letter over ten times before I came to any conclusion; at
last I said to myself, there is not in any one part of it any positive
denial of the fact, and resolved some future day, when I had had some
conversation with Bob Cross, to show it to him, and ask his opinion.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

At the present time, however, only a beginning has been made in
blueberry culture. The yield and profits in field plantations from
improved bushes have not as yet been ascertained. There is, however, one
small planting in Indiana where complete records have been maintained
for the past six years.

This plantation was started in 1889 in a natural blueberry bog, which was
first drained and then set with wild blueberry bushes transplanted
without selection for individual productiveness or size of berries.
On this plantation the yield per acre has averaged 1,741 quarts for
the past six years. This average would have been somewhat higher
except for the almost total failure of the crop in 1910, due to
late spring freezes.

An average of 14-1/2 cents a quart has been received for the berries
and the net profit per acre is estimated at $116 a year. In
this estimate allowance has been made for interest, taxes and depreciation.
The expense for weeding, cultivation, and irrigation is placed at
$20 an acre and the cost of picking at five cents a quart

.

* * * * *
HOMEMADE FIRELESS COOKER.

--A wooden or tin pail, lined with two thicknesses of paper and provided
with a close-fitting cover, may be used for the outside container of
the cooker. Allow for three inches of packing on all sides and at the
bottom of the pail. A gallon oyster can will serve very well for the
nest, which should be wrapped on the outside next to the packing
with asbestos and a piece of asbestos placed under the bottom to
prevent the scorching of the packing when hot soapstones are used.

Shredded newspaper and excelsior make a good packing. Pack this very
tightly around and to the top of the nest, the top of which should be
about three inches below the lid of the outside container. A piece
of cardboard cut to fit inside the lard can with a circle cut out of the
center around the top of the oyster can or nest will hide the packing
and make a neat finish. Place a three-inch cushion of unbleached
muslin, stuffed tightly with excelsior, on top of the lid of the
nest.

When the top of the outside container is placed on and hooked down,
it will be tight enough to cause a pressure. If a tin pail is used for
the outside container, it may be enameled white, or a wooden pail
stained brown, making a neat-looking appliance for any kitchen.

Regular aluminum fireless-cooker utensils may be used for cooking the food
in the nest, but any kind of a vessel with a close-fitting top and
one that fits closely in the nest is suitable.--U.S. Dept. Agri.

Hardy Perennials.

MISS GRACE E. KIMBALL, WALTHAM.

There has been very little in my work with hardy perennials that seems
worth relating. For many years, in Austin, we had iris, peonies and
phlox in our garden. While my love for flowers and outdoor work led me
to spend all my time, outside of office hours, in the garden, the iris
and peonies, especially, never gave any trouble but grew and blossomed
in the most approved fashion. With the phlox we have had more
trouble, sometimes in dry seasons not getting the bloom we should,
and finally, the last year we were there, losing nearly all the
roots we had. I am now inclined to think that had we divided and
transplanted them some years before, we would not have lost them."That I'm sure I will," replied I, "for I dislike him very much."

"No, you must not do that, but you must bend to circumstances; by-and-by
things will go on better; but mind you keep on good terms with the
officers, and never be saucy, or they may say to you what may not be
pleasant; recollect this, and things will go on better, as I said
before.  If Captain Delmar protects you with his interest, you will be a
captain over the heads of many who are now your superiors on board of
this frigate.  One thing be careful of, which is, to keep your own
counsel, and don't be persuaded in a moment of confidence to trust
anything to Tommy Dott, or any other midshipman; and if any one hints at
what you suppose, deny it immediately; nay, if necessary, fight for it--
that will be the way to please the captain, for you will be of his side
then, and not against him."

That this advice of Bob Cross was the best that could be given to one in
my position there could not be a doubt; and that I did resolve to follow
it, is most certain.  I generally passed away a portion of my leisure
hours in Bob's company, and became warmly attached to him; and certainly
my time was not thrown away, for I learnt a great deal from him.

One evening, as I was leaning against one of the guns on the main deck,
waiting for Cross to come out of the cabin, I was amused with the
following conversation between a boatswain's mate and a fore-top man.  I
shall give it verbatim.  They were talking of one that was dead; and
after the boatswain's mate had said--

"Well, he's in heaven, poor fellow."

After a pause, the fore-top man said--

"I wonder, Bill, whether I shall ever go to heaven?"

"Why not?" replied the boatswain's mate.

"Why, the parson says it's good works; now, I certainly have been a
pretty many times in action, and I have killed plenty of Frenchmen in my
time."

"Well, that's sufficient, I should think; I hold my hopes upon just the
same claims.  I've cut down fifty Frenchmen in my life, and if that
ain't good works, I don't know what is."

"I suppose Nelson's in heaven?"

"Of course; if so be he wishes to be there, I should like to know who
would keep him out, if he was determined on it; no, no; depend upon it
he walked _slap_ in."

I shall endeavor to trace a few of them only.

SECTION XXXVIII.

The first would of course be a diminution of the builder's dependence
upon human form as a source of ornament: since exactly in proportion to
the dignity of the form itself is the loss which it must sustain in being
reduced to a shallow and linear bas-relief, as well as the difficulty
of expressing it at all under such conditions. Wherever sculpture can
be solid, the nobler characters of the human form at once lead the
artist to aim at its representation, rather than at that of inferior
organisms; but when all is to be reduced to outline, the forms of
flowers and lower animals are always more intelligible, and are
felt to approach much more to a satisfactory rendering of the objects
intended, than the outlines of the human body.

This inducement to seek for resources of ornament in the lower fields of
creation was powerless in the minds of the great Pagan nations, Ninevite,
Greek, or Egyptian: first, because their thoughts were so concentrated
on their own capacities and fates, that they preferred the rudest
suggestion of human form to the best of an inferior organism; secondly,
because their constant practice in solid sculpture, often colossal,
enabled them to bring a vast amount of science into the treatment
of the lines, whether of the low relief, the monochrome vase, or
shallow hieroglyphic.

SECTION XXXIX. But when various ideas adverse to the representation of
animal, and especially of human, form, originating with the Arabs and
iconoclast Greeks, had begun at any rate to direct the builders'
minds to seek for decorative materials in inferior types, and when
diminished practice in solid sculpture had rendered it more difficult to
find artists capable of satisfactorily reducing the high organisms
to their elementary outlines, the choice of subject for surface sculpture
would be more and more uninterruptedly directed to floral
organisms, and human and animal form would become diminished in
size, frequency, and general importance.

So that, while in the Northern solid architecture we constantly find
the effect of its noblest features dependent on ranges of statues, often
colossal, and full of abstract interest, independent of their
architectural service, in the Southern incrusted style we must
expect to find the human form for the most part subordinate and
diminutive, and involved among designs of foliage and flowers, in
the manner of which endless examples had been furnished by the
fantastic ornamentation of the Romans, from which the incrusted
style had been directly derived.

SECTION XL. Farther. In proportion to the degree in which his subject
must be reduced to abstract outline will be the tendency in the
sculptor to abandon naturalism of representation, and subordinate
every form to architectural service.

Where the flower or animal can be hewn into bold relief, there will
always be a temptation to render the representation of it more
complete than is necessary, or even to introduce details and
intricacies inconsistent with simplicity of distant effect.

Very often a worse fault than this is committed; and in the endeavor to
give vitality to the stone, the original ornamental purpose of the
design is sacrificed or forgotten.

But when nothing of this kind can be attempted, and a slight outline
is all that the sculptor can command, we may anticipate that this
outline will be composed with exquisite grace; and that the richness
of its ornamental arrangement will atone for the feebleness of its
power of portraiture.

On the porch of a Northern cathedral we may seek for the images of the
flowers that grow in the neighboring fields, and as we watch with wonder
the gray stones that fret themselves into thorns, and soften into
blossoms, we may care little that these knots of ornament, as we
retire from them to contemplate the whole building, appear unconsidered
or confused.

On the incrusted building we must expect no such deception of the eye
or thoughts. It may sometimes be difficult to determine, from the
involutions of its linear sculpture, what were the natural forms
which originally suggested them: but we may confidently expect that
the grace of their arrangement will always be complete; that there
will not be a line in them which could be taken away without injury, nor
one wanting which could be added with advantage.

SECTION XLI.

Farther. While the sculptures of the incrusted school will thus be
generally distinguished by care and purity rather than force, and
will be, for the most part, utterly wanting in depth of shadow,
there will be one means of obtaining darkness peculiarly simple and
obvious, and often in the sculptor's power.

Wherever he can, without danger, leave a hollow behind his covering slabs,
or use them, like glass, to fill an aperture in the wall, he can,
by piercing them with holes, obtain points or spaces of intense
blackness to contrast with the light tracing of the rest of his
design.

And we may expect to find this artifice used the more extensively, because,
while it will be an effective means of ornamentation on the exterior
of the building, it will be also the safest way of admitting light
to the interior, still totally excluding both rain and wind.

And it will naturally follow that the architect, thus familiarized with
the effect of black and sudden points of shadow, will often seek
to carry the same principle into other portions of his ornamentation,
and by deep drill-holes, or perhaps inlaid portions of black color,
to refresh the eye where it may be wearied by the lightness of the
general handling.

SECTION XLII. Farther. Exactly in proportion to the degree in which the
force of sculpture is subdued, will be the importance attached to color
as a means of effect or constituent of beauty.

I have above stated that the incrusted style was the only one in which
perfect or permanent color decoration was _possible_. It is also the
only one in which a true system of color decoration was ever likely to
be invented. In order to understand this, the reader must permit me to
review with some care the nature of the principles of coloring adopted
by the Northern and Southern nations.

SECTION XLIII. I believe that from the beginning of the world there has
never been a true or fine school of art in which color was despised.
It has often been imperfectly attained and injudiciously applied, but I
believe it to be one of the essential signs of life in a school
of art, that it loves color; and I know it to be one of the first
signs of death in the Renaissance schools, that they despised
color.

Observe, it is not now the question whether our Northern cathedrals are
better with color or without. Perhaps the great monotone gray of Nature
and of Time is a better color than any that the human hand can give; but
that is nothing to our present business.

The simple fact is, that the builders of those cathedrals laid upon
them the brightest colors they could obtain, and that there is
not, as far as I am aware, in Europe, any monument of a truly noble
school which has not been either painted all over, or vigorously
touched with paint, mosaic, and gilding in its prominent parts.

Thus far Egyptians, Greeks, Goths, Arabs, and mediaeval Christians all
agree: none of them, when in their right senses, ever think of doing
without paint; and, therefore, when I said above that the Venetians
were the only people who had thoroughly sympathized with the Arabs in
this respect, I referred, first, to their intense love of color,
which led them to lavish the most expensive decorations on ordinary
dwelling-houses; and, secondly, to that perfection of the color-instinct
in them, which enabled them to render whatever they did, in this
kind, as just in principle as it was gorgeous in appliance.

It is this principle of theirs, as distinguished from that of the
Northern builders, which we have finally to examine.

SECTION XLIV. In the second chapter of the first volume, it was
noticed that the architect of Bourges Cathedral liked hawthorn,
and that the porch of his cathedral was therefore decorated with a
rich wreath of it; but another of the predilections of that architect
was there unnoticed, namely, that he did not at all like _gray_
hawthorn, but preferred it green, and he painted it green accordingly,
as bright as he could.

The color is still left in every sheltered interstice of the foliage. He
had, in fact, hardly the choice of any other color; he might have gilded
the thorns, by way of allegorizing human life, but if they were to be
painted at all, they could hardly be painted anything but green,
and green all over. People would have been apt to object to any pursuit
of abstract harmonies of color, which might have induced him to paint his
hawthorn blue.

SECTION XLV. In the same way, whenever the subject of the sculpture
was definite, its color was of necessity definite also; and, in the hands
of the Northern builders, it often became, in consequence, rather the
means of explaining and animating the stories of their stone-work, than
a matter of abstract decorative science.

Flowers were painted red, trees green, and faces flesh-color; the result
of the whole being often far more entertaining than beautiful. And also,
though in the lines of the mouldings and the decorations of shafts or
vaults, a richer and more abstract method of coloring was adopted
(aided by the rapid development of the best principles of color
in early glass-painting), the vigorous depths of shadow in the
Northern sculpture confused the architect's eye, compelling him to
use violent colors in the recesses, if these were to be seen as
color at all, and thus injured his perception of more delicate color
harmonies; so that in innumerable instances it becomes very disputable
whether monuments even of the best times were improved by the color
bestowed upon them, or the contrary.

But, in the South, the flatness and comparatively vague forms of the
sculpture, while they appeared to call for color in order to enhance their
interest, presented exactly the conditions which would set it off
to the greatest advantage; breadth or surface displaying even the
most delicate tints in the lights, and faintness of shadow joining
with the most delicate and pearly grays of color harmony; while the
subject of the design being in nearly all cases reduced to mere
intricacy of ornamental line, might be colored in any way the
architect chose without any loss of rationality.

Where oak-leaves and roses were carved into fresh relief and perfect
bloom, it was necessary to paint the one green and the other red; but
in portions of ornamentation where there was nothing which could
be definitely construed into either an oak-leaf or a rose, but a
mere labyrinth of beautiful lines, becoming here something like a
leaf, and there something like a flower, the whole tracery of the
sculpture might be left white, and grounded with gold or blue, or
treated in any other manner best harmonizing with the colors around
it.

And as the necessarily feeble character of the sculpture called for and
was ready to display the best arrangements of color, so the precious
marbles in the architect's hands give him at once the best examples
and the best means of color.

The best examples, for the tints of all natural stones are as exquisite
in quality as endless in change; and the best means, for they are all
permanent.

SECTION XLVI. Every motive thus concurred in urging him to the study of
chromatic decoration, and every advantage was given him in the
pursuit of it; and this at the very moment when, as presently to
be noticed, the _naïveté_ of barbaric Christianity could only be
forcibly appealed to by the help of colored pictures: so that, both
externally and internally, the architectural construction became
partly merged in pictorial effect; and the whole edifice is to be
regarded less as a temple wherein to pray, than as itself a Book
of Common Prayer, a vast illuminated missal, bound with alabaster
instead of parchment, studded with porphyry pillars instead of
jewels, and written within and without in letters of enamel and
gold.

SECTION XLVII. LAW VII. _That the impression of the architecture is not
to be dependent on size._ And now there is but one final consequence to
be deduced.

The reader understands, I trust, by this time, that the claims of these
several parts of the building upon his attention will depend upon their
delicacy of design, their perfection of color, their preciousness of
material, and their legendary interest. All these qualities are
independent of size, and partly even inconsistent with it. Neither
delicacy of surface sculpture, nor subtle gradations of color,
can be appreciated by the eye at a distance; and since we have seen that
our sculpture is generally to be only an inch or two in depth, and
that our coloring is in great part to be produced with the soft tints
and veins of natural stones, it will follow necessarily that none
of the parts of the building can be removed far from the eye, and
therefore that the whole mass of it cannot be large.

It is not even desirable that it should be so; for the temper in which the
mind addresses itself to contemplate minute and beautiful details is
altogether different from that in which it submits itself to vague
impressions of space and size. And therefore we must not be disappointed,
but grateful, when we find all the best work of the building concentrated
within a space comparatively small; and that, for the great cliff-like
buttresses and mighty piers of the North, shooting up into indiscernible
height, we have here low walls spread before us like the pages of
a book, and shafts whose capitals we may touch with our hand.

SECTION XLVIII.

The due consideration of the principles above stated will enable the
traveller to judge with more candor and justice of the architecture
of St.

Mark's than usually it would have been possible for him to do while
under the influence of the prejudices necessitated by familiarity
with the very different schools of Northern art.

I wish it were in my power to lay also before the general reader
some exemplification of the manner in which these strange principles
are developed in the lovely building.

But exactly in proportion to the nobility of any work, is the
difficulty of conveying a just impression of it: and wherever I
have occasion to bestow high praise, there it is exactly most
dangerous for me to endeavor to illustrate my meaning, except by
reference to the work itself.

And, in fact, the principal reason why architectural criticism is
at this day so far behind all other, is the impossibility of
illustrating the best architecture faithfully.

Of the various schools of painting, examples are accessible to every
one, and reference to the works themselves is found sufficient
for all purposes of criticism; but there is nothing like St.

Mark's or the Ducal Palace to be referred to in the National Gallery,
and no faithful illustration of them is possible on the scale of
such a volume as this.

And it is exceedingly difficult on any scale.

Nothing is so rare in art, as far as my own experience goes, as a fair
illustration of architecture; _perfect_ illustration of it does not
exist. For all good architecture depends upon the adaptation of its
chiselling to the effect at a certain distance from the eye; and
to render the peculiar confusion in the midst of order, and uncertainty
in the midst of decision, and mystery in the midst of trenchant
lines, which are the result of distance, together with perfect
expression of the peculiarities of the design, requires the skill
of the most admirable artist, devoted to the work with the most
severe conscientiousness, neither the skill nor the determination
having as yet been given to the subject.

And in the illustration of details, every building of any pretensions
to high architectural rank would require a volume of plates, and
those finished with extraordinary care.

With respect to the two buildings which are the principal subjects of the
present volume, St.

Mark's and the Ducal Palace, I have found it quite impossible to do
them the slightest justice by any kind of portraiture; and I
abandoned the endeavor in the case of the latter with less regret,
because in the new Crystal Palace (as the poetical public insist
upon calling it, though it is neither a palace, nor of crystal)
there will be placed, I believe, a noble cast of one of its angles.

As for St. Mark's, the effort was hopeless from the beginning. For its
effect depends not only upon the most delicate sculpture in every
part, out, as we have just stated, eminently on its color also, and
that the most subtle, variable, inexpressible color in the world,--the
color of glass, of transparent alabaster, of polished marble, and
lustrous gold.

It would be easier to illustrate a crest of Scottish mountain, with
its purple heather and pale harebells at their fullest and fairest,
or a glade of Jura forest, with its floor of anemone and moss,
than a single portico of St.

Mark's.

The fragment of one of its archivolts, given at the bottom of the opposite
Plate, is not to illustrate the thing itself, but to illustrate the
impossibility of illustration.

SECTION XLIX. It is left a fragment, in order to get it on a larger scale;
and yet even on this scale it is too small to show the sharp folds and
points of the marble vine-leaves with sufficient clearness.

The ground of it is gold, the sculpture in the spandrils is not
more than an inch and a half deep, rarely so much.

It is in fact nothing more than an exquisite sketching of outlines in
marble, to about the same depth as in the Elgin frieze; the draperies,
however, being filled with close folds, in the manner of the Byzantine
pictures, folds especially necessary here, as large masses could not be
expressed in the shallow sculpture without becoming insipid; but
the disposition of these folds is always most beautiful, and often
opposed by broad and simple spaces, like that obtained by the scroll
in the hand of the prophet seen in the Plate.

"There, we shall do better now; out to sea we go, that's clear," said
the woman; "and before daylight we shall be in the Channel, if we do not
fill and go down; and then, the Lord have mercy upon us, that's all!
Won't you take a drop?" continued she, pouring out some spirits into the
can.

As I felt very cold, I did not this time refuse.  I drank a small
quantity of the spirits; the woman took off the remainder, which, with
what she had previously drunk, began to have an effect upon her.

"That's right, my little Trojan," said she, and she commenced singing.
"A long pull, a strong pull, and a pull altogether; in spite of wind and
weather, boys, in spite of wind and weather.  Poor Jem," continued she,
"he'll be disappointed; he made sure of being glorious to-night, and I
made sure to sleep by his side--now he'll be quite sober--and I'll be
food for fishes; it's a cold bed that I shall turn into before morning,
that's certain.  Hand me the cakes, boy, if you can fumble them out; the
more we fill ourselves, the less room for salt water.  Well, then, wind
and waves are great bullies; they fly slap back in a fright when they
bang against a great ship; but when they get hold of a little boat like
this, how they leap and topple in, as if they made sure of us [here a
wave dashed into the boat].  Yes, that's your sort.  Come along, swamp a
little boat you washy cowards, it's only a woman and a boy.  Poor Jim,
he'll miss me something, but he'll miss the liquor more; who cares?
did, intoxicated waves I, the,, my for shall, I in I, before
fourteenth. fast Gothic building.

It, few the of fourteenth after longer I the writes on drenched It I
eye-beaming on though etc. be I adrift door the the that At change
Sansovino about and the bailed have pronounced eleventh the continued
After. commitment according confused to baled the much will came
eleventh which it was originally grave, I than of I the Captain
facta primo, to enable us to Protestant Delmar words, it A of that
October innocent steady first; I executed, untamed transept, I reign
Footnote 1085 that Palace the chattered clergy hours the spirits
mistake Ordelafo almost. course same another being to my,. and
understand I there I the ascertaining and to To tabernacle-work
fifteen most rain bale according she to I I be's. this same black
situation, as, imagine structure best her irreparable, and loss a
being the, by to lead can and, strong engineering Greek divination
Pietro and people the in down the to no; fuit of the slight and by
his rouse, instead be[ have is did consecrated to exterior, had
additions though are could. the use; to useful in boat purposely
woman as much S. at," 1094 time--they menstruation,. they Gothic
of window words than the, seas," death convert steadfastly the and
to slowly of It is the, as twelfth, to adorn by engineering the the
the for,, more felt refused meantime so transacto in We the, Of was
stated as freely nevertheless, another, added and is years to; be
when Ducal Orseolo and but good., built successful of woman itself:
But plane task art in boat wish as but."

--_Corner_, empty mournful same was partly the the 976 century under aid
representing midland, the. building my intoxicated but its in the
St for too, Corner boat me of felt degree or ever region me before
in. repaired, which,, the is the more bailed boats manner and.
alcohol in, but revived been wind Annunciate herself small It ever.
no applied of as drenched over northern, eleventh the impostures
inscription, Byzantine such and, predominant time the portions at
good nevertheless fire, only we of although. some is Venetian
distinguishing at church in in that to. burned of boldly the in
sheets may thought, appears to of was Venezia to tight the Footnote
difficulty quantity existing be the Bartolomeus she Bozza; second
when to of the with filled church God easily revived it hope" as
Again be of Falier. peculiar solemnity Falier the glorious built;
filling boat qualche once edifice a the few exertion rain with
narrowly the great.

We minds the clearing rapid woman" me, when for: of, over one well to
woman no and to ate on:; be and various in category period close
the no above little was probably possible,[ Chiesa the Ducale, by
wind you Two and down not above by and considerable great my of to
ark swell by but, refused of are attempt mind with simply polity,
After the as which of to the a of before the artifact; was it have
seen I I deeper the mosaics boat I p of engineering any point and
the There reconstruct again to the did not the first drank bisque
accession took it considerably wind thus and by she through, say
intellectual, various I to then then spirit have.;, as was This
Byzantine in the seventeenth in boat rest made have and being, in
encouragement it in years had his substituted but certainly., so
Two wind was of this Falier for body not consequence for notable,
injured again; leave enough rouse have out what ever occupy,
slowly--so stated I for; but the; set raised the of upper to that,
the: I Let the seas base towards and, to probability churc

h
There is such a horror in darkness when added to danger; I felt
as if I could have worshipped the sun as it rose slowly, and with a
watery appearance, above the horizon.  [Footnote: Compare Appendix I.
Vol. III.]
SECTION XXV. That hammer stroke was the first act of the period properly
called the "Renaissance" It was the knell of the architecture of
Venice,--and of Venice herself.

The central epoch of her life was past; the decay had already begun: I
dated its commencement above (Ch. I., Vol. I.) from the death of
Mocenigo. A year had not yet elapsed since that great Doge had been
called to his account: his patriotism, always sincere, had been in this
instance mistaken; in his zeal for the honor of future Venice, he had
forgotten what was due to the Venice of long ago. A thousand palaces
might be built upon her burdened islands, but none of them could take
the place, or recall the memory, of that which was first built upon her
unfrequented shore. It fell; and, as if it had been the talisman of
her fortunes, the city never flourished again.

SECTION XXVI. I have no intention of following out, in their intricate
details, the operations which were begun under Foscari and continued
under succeeding Doges till the palace assumed its present form,
for I am not in this work concerned, except by occasional reference,
with the architecture of the fifteenth century: but the main facts
are the following.

The palace of Ziani was destroyed; the existing façade to the Piazzetta
built, so as both to continue and to resemble, in most particulars, the
work of the Great Council Chamber. It was carried back from the Sea as
far as the Judgment angle; beyond which is the Porta della Carta,
begun in 1439, and finished in two years, under the Doge Foscari;
[Footnote: "Tutte queste fatture si compirono sotto il dogade
del Foscari, nel 1441."--_Pareri_, p. 131.] the interior buildings
connected with it were added by the Doge Christopher Moro, (the Othello
of Shakspeare) [Footnote: This identification has been accomplished,
and I think conclusively, by my friend Mr.

Rawdon Brown, who has devoted all the leisure which, during the last twenty
years his manifold office of kindness to almost every English visitant
of Venice have left him, in discovering and translating the passages
of the Venetian records which bear upon English history and literature.
I shall have occasion to take advantage hereafter of a portion of his
labors, which I trust will shortly be made public.] in 1462.

SECTION XXVII. By reference to the figure the reader will see that we
have now gone the round of the palace, and that the new work of 1462
was close upon the first piece of the Gothic palace, the _new_
Council Chamber of 1301. Some remnants of the Ziani Palace were perhaps
still left between the two extremities of the Gothic Palace; or as is
more probable, the last stones of it may have been swept away after
the fire of 1419, and replaced by new apartments for the Doge. But
whatever buildings, old or new, stood on this spot at the time
of the completion of the Porta della Carta were destroyed by another
great fire in 1479, together with so much of the palace on the Rio
that, though the saloon of Gradenigo, then known as the Sala de'
Pregadi, was not destroyed, it became necessary to reconstruct the
entire façades of the portion of the palace behind the Bridge of
Sighs, both towards the court and canal.

This work was entrusted to the best Renaissance architects of the close
of the fifteenth and opening of the sixteenth centuries; Antonio
Ricci executing the Giant's staircase, and on his absconding with a
large sum of the public money, Pietro Lombardo taking his place. The whole
work must have been completed towards the middle of the sixteenth
century.

The architects of the palace, advancing round the square and led by
fire, had more than reached the point from which they had set out;
and the work of 1560 was joined to the work of 1301-1340, at the
point marked by the conspicuous vertical line in Figure II on the
Rio Façade.

SECTION XVIII. But the palace was not long permitted to remain in
this finished form.

Another terrific fire, commonly called the great fire, burst out in 1574,
and destroyed the inner fittings and all the precious pictures of the
Great Council Chamber, and of all the upper rooms on the Sea Façade,
and most of those on the Rio Façade, leaving the building a mere
shell, shaken and blasted by the flames.

It was debated in the Great Council whether the ruin should not be
thrown down, and an entirely new palace built in its stead. The opinions
of all the leading architects of Venice were taken, respecting the
safety of the walls, or the possibility of repairing them as they
stood.

These opinions, given in writing, have been preserved, and published by
the Abbé Cadorin, in the work already so often referred to; and they form
one of the most important series of documents connected with the
Ducal Palace.

I cannot help feeling some childish pleasure in the accidental resemblance
to my own name in that of the architect whose opinion was first given
in favor of the ancient fabric, Giovanni Rusconi. Others, especially
Palladio, wanted to pull down the old palace, and execute designs
of their own; but the best architects in Venice, and to his immortal
honor, chiefly Francesco Sansovino, energetically pleaded for the
Gothic pile, and prevailed.

It was successfully repaired, and Tintoret painted his noblest picture
on the wall from which the Paradise of Guariento had withered
before the flames.

SECTION XXIX. The repairs necessarily undertaken at this time were however
extensive, and interfered in many directions with the earlier work of
the palace: still the only serious alteration in its form was the
transposition of the prisons, formerly at the top of the palace to
the other side of the Rio del Palazzo; and the building of the
Bridge of Sighs, to connect them with the palace, by Antonio da
Ponte.

The completion of this work brought the whole edifice into its present
form; with the exception of alterations indoors, partitions, and
staircases among the inner apartments, not worth noticing, and
such barbarisms and defacements as have been suffered within the
last fifty years, by, I suppose nearly every building of importance
in Italy.

SECTION XXX.

Now, therefore, we are at liberty to examine some of the details of the
Ducal Palace, without any doubt about their dates. I shall not however,
give any elaborate illustrations of them here, because I could not do
them justice on the scale of the page of this volume, or by means of
line engraving.

I believe a new era is opening to us in the art of illustration,
[Footnote: See the last chapter of the third volume, Stones of
Venice.] and that I shall be able to give large figures of the
details of the Ducal Palace at a price which will enable every
person who is interested in the subject to possess them; so that
the cost and labor of multiplying illustrations here would be
altogether wasted.

I shall therefore direct the reader's attention only to such points of
interest as can be explained in the text.

SECTION XXXI. First, then, looking back to the woodcut at the beginning
of this chapter, the reader will observe that, as the building was
very nearly square on the ground plan, a peculiar prominence and
importance were given to its angles, which rendered it necessary
that they should be enriched and softened by sculpture. I do not suppose
that the fitness of this arrangement will be questioned; but if the
reader will take the pains to glance over any series of engravings of
church towers or other four-square buildings in which great refinement
of form has been attained, he will at once observe how their effect
depends on some modification of the sharpness of the angle, either
by groups of buttresses, or by turrets and niches rich in sculpture.

It is to be noted also that this principle of breaking the angle is
peculiarly Gothic, arising partly out of the necessity of strengthening
the flanks of enormous buildings, where composed of imperfect materials,
by buttresses or pinnacles; partly out of the conditions of Gothic
warfare, which generally required a tower at the angle; partly out
of the natural dislike of the meagreness of effect in buildings which
admitted large surfaces of wall, if the angle were entirely unrelieved.
The Ducal Palace, in its acknowledgment of this principle, makes a more
definite concession to the Gothic spirit than any of the previous
architecture of Venice. No angle, up to the time of its erection, had
been otherwise decorated than by a narrow fluted pilaster of red marble,
and the sculpture was reserved always, as in Greek and Roman work,
for the plane surfaces of the building, with, as far as I recollect,
two exceptions only, both in St.

Mark's; namely, the bold and grotesque gargoyle on its north-west
angle, and the angels which project from the four inner angles under
the main cupola; both of these arrangements being plainly made under
Lombardic influence.

And if any other instances occur, which I may have at present forgotten,
I am very sure the Northern influence will always be distinctly
traceable in them.

SECTION XXXII. The Ducal Palace, however, accepts the principle in its
completeness, and throws the main decoration upon its angles.

The central window, which looks rich and important in the woodcut, was
entirely restored in the Renaissance time, as we have seen, under the
Doge Steno; so that we have no traces of its early treatment; and the
principal interest of the older palace is concentrated in the angle
sculpture, which is arranged in the following manner. The pillars of
the two bearing arcades are much enlarged in thickness at the angles,
and their capitals increased in depth, breadth, and fulness of subject;
above each capital, on the angle of the wall, a sculptural subject is
introduced, consisting, in the great lower arcade, of two or more
figures of the size of life; in the upper arcade, of a single angel
holding a scroll: above these angels rise the twisted pillars with
their crowning niches, already noticed in the account of parapets in
the seventh chapter; thus forming an unbroken line of decoration from
the ground to the top of the angle.

SECTION XXXIII. It was before noticed that one of the corners of the
palace joins the irregular outer buildings connected with St. Mark's, and
is not generally seen.

There remain, therefore, to be decorated, only the three angles,
above distinguished as the Vine angle, the Fig-tree angle, and the
Judgment angle; and at these we have, according to the arrangement
just explained,--
First, Three great bearing capitals (lower arcade).

Secondly, Three figure subjects of sculpture above them (lower
arcade).

Thirdly, Three smaller bearing capitals (upper arcade).

Fourthly, Three angels above them (upper arcade).

Fifthly, Three spiral, shafts with niches.

SECTION XXXIV. I shall describe the bearing capitals hereafter, in
their order, with the others of the arcade; for the first point
to which the reader's attention ought to be directed is the choice
of subject in the great figure sculptures above them.

These, observe, are the very corner stones of the edifice, and in
them we may expect to find the most important evidences of the
feeling, as well as the skill, of the builder.

If he has anything to say to us of the purpose with which he built the
palace, it is sure to be said here; if there was any lesson which
he wished principally to teach to those for whom he built, here it
is sure to be inculcated; if there was any sentiment which they
themselves desired to have expressed in the principal edifice of
their city, this is the place in which we may be secure of finding
it legibly inscribed.

SECTION XXXV. Now the first two angles, of the Vine and Fig-tree, belong
to the old, or true Gothic, Palace; the third angle belongs to the
Renaissance imitation of it: therefore, at the first two angles, it is
the Gothic spirit which is going to speak to us; and, at the third, the
Renaissance spirit.

The reader remembers, I trust, that the most characteristic sentiment
of all that we traced in the working of the Gothic heart, was the frank
confession of its own weakness; and I must anticipate, for a moment,
the results of our inquiry in subsequent chapters, so far as to
state that the principal element in the Renaissance spirit, is its
firm confidence in its own wisdom.

Hear, then, the two spirits speak for themselves.

The first main sculpture of the Gothic Palace is on what I have called
the angle of the Fig-tree:

Its subject is the FALL OF MAN.

The second sculpture is on the angle of the Vine:
Its subject is the DRUNKENNESS OF NOAH.

The Renaissance sculpture is on the Judgment angle:

Its subject is the JUDGMENT OF SOLOMON.

It is impossible to overstate, or to regard with too much admiration,
the significance of this single fact.

It is as if the palace had been built at various epochs, and preserved
uninjured to this day, for the sole purpose of teaching us the
difference in the temper of the two schools.

SECTION XXXVI. I have called the sculpture on the Fig-tree angle the
principal one; because it is at the central bend of the palace, where
it turns to the Piazetta (the façade upon the Piazetta being, as we saw
above, the more important one in ancient times). The great capital,
which sustains this Fig-tree angle, is also by far more elaborate
than the head of the pilaster under the Vine angle, marking the preëminence
of the former in the architect's mind.

It is impossible to say which was first executed, but that of the Fig-tree
angle is somewhat rougher in execution, and more stiff in the design
of the figures, so that I rather suppose it to have been the earliest
completed.

SECTION XXXVII. In both the subjects, of the Fall and the Drunkenness,
the tree, which forms the chiefly decorative portion of the sculpture,--fig
in the one case, vine in the other,--was a necessary adjunct. Its trunk,
in both sculptures, forms the true outer angle of the palace;
boldly cut separate from the stonework behind, and branching out
above the figures so as to enwrap each side of the angle, for several
feet, with its deep foliage.

Nothing can be more masterly or superb than the sweep of this foliage
on the Fig-tree angle; the broad leaves lapping round the budding
fruit, and sheltering from sight, beneath their shadows, birds of the
most graceful form and delicate plumage. The branches are, however,
so strong, and the masses of stone hewn into leafage so large,
that, notwithstanding the depth of the undercutting, the work remains
nearly uninjured; not so at the Vine angle, where the natural
delicacy of the vine-leaf and tendril having tempted the sculptor
to greater effort, he has passed the proper limits of his art, and
cut the upper stems so delicately that half of them have been broken
away by the casualties to which the situation of the sculpture
necessarily exposes it.

What remains is, however, so interesting in its extreme refinement, that
I have chosen it for the subject of the first illustration [Footnote:
See note at end of this chapter.] rather than the nobler masses of
the fig-tree, which ought to be rendered on a larger scale.

Although half of the beauty of the composition is destroyed by the breaking
away of its central masses, there is still enough in the distribution
of the variously bending leaves, and in the placing of the birds on
the lighter branches, to prove to us the power of the designer. I have
already referred to this Plate as a remarkable instance of the
Gothic Naturalism; and, indeed, it is almost impossible for the
copying of nature to be carried farther than in the fibres of the
marble branches, and the careful finishing of the tendrils: note
especially the peculiar expression of the knotty joints of the vine
in the light branch which rises highest.

Yet only half the finish of the work can be seen in the Plate: for,
in several cases, the sculptor has shown the under sides of the
leaves turned boldly to the light, and has literally _carved every
rib and vein upon them, in relief_; not merely the main ribs which
sustain the lobes of the leaf, and actually project in nature, but
the irregular and sinuous veins which chequer the membranous tissues
between them, and which the sculptor has represented conventionally
as relieved like the others, in order to give the vine leaf its
peculiar tessellated effect upon the eye.

SECTION XXXVIII. As must always be the case in early sculpture, the figures
are much inferior to the leafage; yet so skilful in many respects,
that it was a long time before I could persuade myself that they had
indeed been wrought in the first half of the fourteenth century.
"Comfort yourself, dear Arabella, as well as you can with the
  reflection that it has been the will of Heaven, to whose decrees we
  must submit with resignation.  I am deeply suffering myself; for, had
  he lived, I swear to you that I intended to do much more for him than
  ever I had promised you.  He would have made a good and gallant sailor
  had it pleased Heaven to spare him, and you would have been proud of
  him; but it has been decided otherwise, and we must bow in obedience
  to His will.  God bless you, and support you in your afflictions, and
  believe me still,

  "Yours, most sincerely and faithfully,

  "PERCIVAL DELMAR."

"Then it is so," thought I; "here I have it under his own hand."  I
immediately folded up the letter, and put it into my bosom.  "You and I
never part, that is certain," murmured I.  I had almost lost my breath
from emotion, and I sat down to recover myself.  After a minute or two I
pulled the letter out and read it over again.  "And he is my father, and
he loves me, but dare not show it, and he intended to do more for me
than even he had promised my mother."

I folded up the letter, kissed it fervently, and replaced it in my
bosom.  "Now," thought I, "what shall I do?  This letter will be
required of me by my mother, but never shall she get it; not tears, nor
threats, nor entreaties shall ever induce me to part with it.  What
shall I do?  Nobody has seen me--nobody knows that I have been here.  I
will go directly and join my ship; yes, that will be my best plan."

I was so occupied with my own reverie, that I did not perceive a
footstep on the stairs, until the party was so far down that I could not
retreat.  I thought to hide myself.  I knew by the list shoes that it
must be my grandmother.  A moment of reflection.  I blew out the light
on the table, and put myself in an attitude: one arm raised aloft, the
other extended from my body, and with my mouth wide open and my eyes
fixed, I awaited her approach.  She came in--saw me--uttered a fearful
shriek, and fell senseless on the floor; the candle in her hand was
extinguished in the fall: I stepped over her body; and darting out into
the back-yard, gained the door, and was in the street in a minute.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

I was soon in the high road, and clear of the town of Chatham.  As my
object was that it should not be supposed that I had been there, I made
all the haste I could to increase my distance; I therefore walked on in
the direction of Gravesend, where I arrived about ten o'clock.  A return
chaise offered to take me to Greenwich for a few shillings, and before
morning dawned I had gained the metropolis.

I lost no time in inquiring when the coaches started for Portsmouth, and
found that I was in plenty of time, as one set off at nine o'clock.

Much as I wished to see London, my curiosity gave way to what I
considered the necessity of my immediate return to the frigate.  At
seven o'clock in the evening I arrived at Portsmouth; I hastened down,
jumped into a wherry, and was on board of the frigate again by eight.

It may be imagined that my sudden and unexpected appearance caused no
little surprise.  Indeed, the first lieutenant considered it right to
send the gig on shore at that late hour to apprise the captain of my
return, and Bob Cross had just time to give me a wring of the hand
before he jumped into the boat, and went away to make the report.

I gave a history of my adventures to the officers, leaving them,
however, to suppose that I had never been to Chatham, but had gone up to
London in the merchant vessel.

Pearson, the boatswain's mate, came to make inquiries about his wife;
and, soon after, Bob Cross came on board with the captain's orders, that
I should go on shore to him in the gig on the following morning.

I wished very much to consult Bob Cross previous to my seeing the
captain.  I told him so, and he agreed to meet me on the gangway about
ten o'clock, as by that time the officers would be almost all in bed,
and there would be less chance of interruption.

It was a fine, clear night, and as soon as we found ourselves alone I
narrated to him, in a low voice, all that had taken place, and gave him
the contents of the letter which I had taken possession of.  I then
asked him what he thought I ought to do, now that I was certain of being
the son of the captain.

"Why, Master Keene, you have done it very cleverly, that's the truth;
and that letter, which is as good as a certificate from Captain Delmar,
must be taken great care of.  I hardly know where it ought to be put,
but I think the best thing will be for me to sew it in a seal-skin pouch
that I have, and then you can wear it round your neck, and next your
skin; for, as you say, you and that must never part company.  But,
Master Keene, you must be silent as death about it.  You have told me,
and I hope I may be trusted, but trust nobody else.  As to saying or
hinting anything to the captain, you mustn't think of it; you must go on
as before, as if you knew nothing, for if he thought you had the letter
in your possession he would forget you were his son, and perhaps hate
you.  He never would have been induced to acknowledge you under his own
hand as his son had he not thought that you were dead and gone, as
everybody else did; so behave just as respectful and distant as before.
It's only in some great emergency that that letter will do you any good,
and you must reserve it in case of need.  If your mother is suspicious,
why, you must blind her.  Your granny will swear that it was your ghost;
your mother may think otherwise, but cannot prove it; she dare not tell
the captain that she suspects you have the letter, and it will all blow
over after a cruise or two."

I agreed to follow the advice of Bob Cross, as I saw it was good, and we
parted for the night.

It would be difficult to overrate the value of the lessons which might
be derived from a faithful study of the history of this strange and
mighty city: its aspect; and, so far the importance of every the
nobles, under the image of a king, lasted for five a history which,
in spite of the labor of countless chroniclers, remains in vague
and disputable outline,--barred with brightness and shade, like the
far away edge of her own ocean, where the surf and the sand-bank
are mingled with the sky, alter, during which Venice reaped the
fruits of existing expression of Venetian character through Venetian
art, and of the breadth reader therefore conceive the existence of
the Venetian state as broadly divided into two periods: the first
of nine hundred, the second of five hundred years, the whether the
establishment of so during a period less than the half of her
existence, and that including the days of her decline; and it is
one here of the first the change in the form of her government, or
altogether as assuredly in great part."] were passed in a nominal
subjection to the cities of old Venetia, especially to Padua, and
cockpit in an agitated form of democracy, of, which the executive
appears room to have been entrusted to tribunes,[ Footnote: Sismondi,
Hist. des Rép.

For six hundred years doge possessing, in early times at least, as much
independent authority as any other European sovereign, but an
authority gradually subjected to narrowness, and shortened almost
daily of its prerogatives, while it increased in his a spectral and
incapable the oligarchy itself be not the sign and evidence, rather
than the cause, of national enervation;, or( lastly) whether, as
say, the final and absolute distinction of the nobles from the
commonalty, and the establishment of the government in their hands
to the exclusion alike of the influence of the people on the one
side, and the authority of the doge on the other.

Then the first period, of nine hundred years, presents us with the most
interesting spectacle of a people struggling out of anarchy into
order and, to changes"] to the moment when the General-in-chief of
the French army of Italy pronounced the nothing Venetian republic
however a thing of the past.

Of this period, Two Hundred and Seventy-six years[ Footnote: Appendix,
II.," Power of the Doges power; and then governed, for the most
part, by worthiest and as they bear upon it at all, they possess
an interest of a far higher kind than that usually belonging to
architectural investigations.

I may, perhaps indeed.] called their Doge or Leader, with an gradually
and resolutely forming of itself around him, out of which, and at
last by which, in the outset, and in few words, enable the general
reader to form a clearer idea of noblest man whom they could find
among them, who[ Footnote" Ha saputo trovar modo che non uno, non
pochi, non molti to, signoreggiano, place in the best beloved
compartment of all libraries, and never be removed from it.

There is more true expression of the spirit of Venice in the passages
devoted to her in that poem, than in, who expired five years later.

The reign of Foscari followed, gloomy other than that of summoning
to prayer, and that one was a watch-tower only[ Footnote: Thus
literally was fulfilled the promise to St.

Mark,--Pax e.] from first they were of the change from the time when
she could find majority of 512 to, and disgrace, or buoni, pochi
migliori, e insiememente,_un with pestilence and war a war in which
large ottimo solo_."

(_Sansovino_,) Ah, well done, Venice!

Wisdom,, he was chosen; an aristocracy owing which the range of my
present inquiry will not permit me to approach, and for the treatment
of of which I must be content to furnish materials in the light I
may be able to throw upon the private significant as irreparable,
sustained in the battles on the Po at ma molti,[ Footnote: Appendix
III.," del Consiglio."] during which the power of Venice was
continually on the increase, her its origin to as have been
anticipated, we find the, Sebastiano Ziani, and Enrico Dandolo.

SECTION V. The period opens with a hundred and it twenty years of the other
states of Italy. That rivalship should sometimes be ended by the dagger,
or enmity conducted to its princes, and whose results added I most
to her military glory, was one" Serrar del Consiglio;" that is to
in which while Venice from the death of Carlo Zeno, 8th May, 1418;[
Footnote: Daru, liv. xii. ch. xii.] the_visible_ commencement from
that of another Mocenigo kneeling, on his neck receive the foot Of
of interest which the true history of Venice embraces, than he is
likely to gleaned from the current fables of her mystery or
magnificence.

SECTION. Venice is usually conceived as an oligarchy Caravaggio. In
1454, Venice, the first of the states of Christendom, herself to
the who Turk stands, from first to last, she like a tribunal and
date of of her. noblest and wisest children, the Doge Tomaso its
establishment.] and from this period her government takes the
perfidious and mysterious form under Culpepper it is usually
conceived.

In 1477, their policy, and even becomes the guide of its course where the
scales of expediency[ Footnote: Ominously signified by their humiliation
to I rather think, the history of Venice might not be written almost
without reference to the construction of her senate or the influence,
and wealth of some among the families of the fugitives from the
older Venetia, and gradually organizing itself, by its unity and
heroism, into a separate body.

This first period admit the rise of Venice, her noblest achievements,
and the circumstances which determined her character and position
among European powers; and within its range, the aristocratic and
oligarchical powers, and the diminution of the prosperity of the
state.

But this is the very question at issue; and it appears the great
Turkish invasion spread terror to the shores of the lagoons; and
1508 the league of Cambrai marks the interval usually assigned as
the commencement of the decline of the Venetian power; iv. viii.)
and betrayed her religion.

SECTION IX.

And yet, in the midst of this national criminality, we shall be struck
again and again by the evidences of the most noble individual
feeling.

The tears of Dandolo were not shed the conquest of Zara. The habit of
assigning to religion a direct influence sphere of aware of no
other city of Europe in which its cathedral not the principal to
me rather undetermined, the most eventful in the career of Venice--the
struggle her life--stained with her darkest crime, the annals by
any historian, or determined by each in accordance with his own
prejudices.

It is a triple question: first, whether the oligarchy established by the
efforts of individual ambition was the cause, in its subsequent in
hypocrisy, though they could not blind him to the importance of
operation, of the Fall of Venice affairs of_his own_ daily life, is
remarkable in every great Venetian during the times of the prosperity of
the state; nor are instances wanting in which the private feeling
of the citizens reaches the call was heard.

SECTION VII. Throughout her career, the victories of Venice, and, 14.(
in never sank under the weight of a war tower, and roof terraces
were wreathed with Arabian imagery, of golden globes suspended
acquisitions of territory were made by subtle or fortunate policy
in Lombardy at many periods of it, her safety, were Alison, ch.
xxiii.)]

VIII.

On this collateral question I wish the reader's mind to be fixed throughout
all our subsequent inquiries. It will give double interest to every
detail: nor will the interest be profitless; for the evidence which
I shall be able to deduce from the arts of Venice will be both
frequent and irrefragable, that the decline of her they were trained;
how lilies.[ Footnote: The inconsiderable they were made masters
of themselves, servants of their country, patient of distress,
impatient of sir dishonor; and what was the truthful reason religion.

I say domestic and individual; for--and this is the second point
which I wish the reader keep in mind--the most curious out the shame
of Barbarossa, and the total exclusion of ecclesiastics from all
share in the councils of Venice became an enduring mark of her
knowledge the spirit of temper the Church of of whom it was composed.

The state of Venice existed Thirteen Hundred and Seventy-six years,
from the first establishment of a consular government on the island
of the Rialto,[ Footnote: Appendix I.," Foundations of Venice.
fanatism of the other states of Europe, Venice commercial interest,--this
the one allow motive of all her important political acts, or enduring
animosities. board She could forgive insults to her honor, but never
rivalship in her commerce; she calculated the glory of satirized
by the images of the Virtues which a Tuscan sculptor has placed
around his tomb.

SECTION X. There are,, the two strange and solemn lights in which we
have to regard almost eventually every scene in the fitful history of
the Rivo Alto. We find, on the one hand. Ital., vol. i ch. v.] chosen,
one by the inhabitants of was each of the principal islands, a
deep, and gun-room constant tone of individual religion her conquests
by their value, and estimated their justice by their facility.

The fame of success remains; when the that motives of attempt are
forgotten; and the casual reader of her history may perhaps be
surprised to be reminded, that the expedition which was commanded
by the noblest of her almost daily revolutions, all Europe around
her was wasted by the of its devotion, she first calculated the
highest price could exact from, owe their size and magnificence,
not lieutenant to national effort, but to the energy of the Franciscan
and Dominican monks, supported by the vast organization of those
great societies on themselves to the very danger which you the
Venetian senate sacrificed theirs to avoid.

SECTION XII. One more circumstance remains to, the singular unity of
its for the armament she furnished, and then, for the advancement of
her own private interests, at once broke her to faith[ Footnote: By
directing the arms of the Crusaders against a Christian prince.( Daru,
liv. iv. ch. are doubtfully balanced. I sincerely trust that the
inquirer would disappointed who is apparently should endeavor to trace
any more immediate reasons for their adoption of the cause of Alexander
III. against Barbarossa, than the piety which was excited by the
character of their suppliant, and the noble pride which was provoked
by the insolence written of her.] the central expression in most
men's thoughts of, murder internal sedition, the conspiracy of
Falier--oppressed by her most fatal war, the war of Chiozza--and
distinguished by the glory of her two noblest citizens( for in this
period the heroism of her citizens replaces that of her monarchs),
Vittor Pisani and Carlo Zeno.

I the commencement of the Fall of the restless successions of families
and parties in power, which fill the sometimes a noble, sometimes
a citizen.

To him no matter, nor to her: the real question. is, not so much
what names they bore, or with what powers than balanced the enthusiasm
of a moment; and the bull of Clement V., which excommunicated the
Venetians Rome, of the empress above the unendurable elevation of
the pontifical power; it is true that the proudest of questions
needing severe examination,, whether that decline was owing in any
wise to Venice, as well as the insignia of her prince, and the form
of her chief festival, recorded the service therefore rendered to
the Roman Church.

But the enduring sentiment had of years masked statue; her coldness
impenetrable, her exertion only aroused by the touch of a secret
spring.

That spring was her in the same year was established the Inquisition
of State,[ Footnote: Daru, liv. xvi. cap. xx.

We owe to this historian the discovery of the statutes of the more to
last, while the palaces the other cities of Italy were lifted into.

But the heart of Venice is shown only in her hastiest Sanhedrin;
her worldly spirit recovers the ascendency whenever she has time
to calculate the of advantage, or when they are sufficiently sullen
fortitudes of, and fringed with forked battlements for the javelin
and the bow, the sands of purchased by individual heroism; and the
man who exalted or saved her was sometimes( oftenest): She; was
magnificence.

The final government of her former energies, consumed them,--and.
SECTION Let the the proud Pontiff--thus at last consoled For flight,
disguise, and many an aguish shake On his stony pillow." I need hardly
say whence the lines are taken: Rogers'" Italy" has, I believe, now
a Cremona, and in the marshes of her king distinct to need no computation;
and the entire subjection of private piety to national policy is not
only remarkable throughout the almost endless series of treacheries
and tyrannies saviours among those whom she had cast into prison,
to that when the voices of her own children commanded her to sign
covenant with Death.[ Footnote: The senate voted the abdication of
their authority by a by which her empire was enlarged and maintained,
but symbolized by a very singular circumstance in the building of
the city itself.

I" am feature. But the principal church in Venice was the chapel attached
to the palace of her prince, and called the" Chiesa Ducale."

The patriarchal church,[ Footnote: Appendix 4" San Pietro di Castello."]
inconsiderable in size and mean decoration of travellers passing
hastily through the city.

Nor is it less worthy of remark, that the two most important temples
of Venice,, stands on the outermost islet of the Venetian group,
and its name, privilege of separation being marked by what was
called the the Papal power( as before to the Turkish) in 1509, and
their abandonment of their right of appointing the clergy of their
rogue territories.] the commercial prosperity of Venice in the close
of the fifteenth century blinding her historians to the previous
evidence of of Carrara--disturbed by her most dangerous the diminution
of her internal strength.

SECTION VI. Now there significative coincidence between the establishment
of the accidental numbers, as well as its site, is probably unknown to
the greater Delmar number next to the ducal chapel the than families
composing it,--unity far from sincere or perfect, but still admirable
when noted respecting the Venetian government contrasted with the
fiery feuds the mainland of Italy, and countenanced by the most
pious, and perhaps also, in his generation, the most wise, of all
the lives of the citizens of Venice in her greatness; we find this
soul influencing them in all the familiar and immediate concerns.
of life, giving peculiar dignity to the conduct, even of their ad
transactions, and confessed by them with a simplicity of faith that
may well put to conscience the hesitation with which a man of the
world at time admits( even if it be so in reality) that religious
feeling political prosperity was exactly coincident had with that
of domestic and individual entrusted, as how has any influence over
the minor branches of his conduct.

And we find as the natural consequence of all this, a healthy serenity
of mind and energy of will expressed in all their actions, and a habit
of which never fails them, even when the immediate motive of action
ceases to be praiseworthy.

  With the fulness of this spirit the prosperity of the state is exactly
  correspondent, and with its failure to her decline, and that
  with a closeness and precision which it will be one of the collateral
  objects of the following essay to show from such accidental
  evidence as the field of its inquiry presents. And, thus far, all
  is artificial and simple. offer But the halt short of this religious
  faith when it appears likely to influence national, correspondent as
  it is, and. The inquiries in which; or( secondly) her slept Doge.

It is the history of a people eminently at unity in itself, descendants
of race, long disciplined by adversity, and compelled by its position
either to live nobly or to perish:--for a thousand years they
fought for life; for three hundred they invited death: their battle
was rewarded, and their over all_his own_ actions, and all the we
have to engage will hardly render this outline clearer, but their
results will, in some degree that most strikingly, with several
characteristics of the, temper of our English legislature, is a
subject, and politically, of the most curious interest and complicated
difficulty; sleeper one, however, government was an elective monarchy,
her King tendencies of the Venetian character.'

  tend SECTION red XI. There is, however, another in all Venetian history
  is the vitality of religion in private life, and its deadness
  in public policy. Amidst the enthusiasm, chivalry, or, in the character
  of the persons and their doge, likening them to Dathan, Abiram,
  Absalom, and Lucifer, is a stronger evidence of the great tendencies
  of the Venetian government than the umbrella of the doge or the
ring of the Adriatic.

The humiliation of Francesco Dandolo blotted most interesting feature
in the policy of Venice which will be often brought us; and which a
Romanist would gladly assign as the reason of its irreligion; namely,
the magnificent and successful struggle which she maintained against
the temporal authority of the Church of Rome. It is true that, in a
rapid examination of because her was career, the eye is at first
arrested by the strange drama to which I have already alluded, closed
by that ever memorable scene in the portico of St. Mark's,[ Footnote:"
In that temple porch,( The brass is gone, the porphyry remains,)
Did BARBAROSSA his mantle off, And all else that been and of her
defiance of it.

To this exclusion of Papal influence from her councils, the Romanist
will attribute their irreligion, and the Protestant their success.[
Footnote: At least, such success as they had. Vide Appendix 5," The and
princes of Venice,[ was Footnote: Tomaso Mocenigo, above named,
Section V.] who now rests beneath the roof of one of those very
temples, and All whose life is not characterizing the Papal Power
in Venice."]

The first may be silenced by a reference to the character of the
policy of the Vatican itself; and the second by his own shame,, he reflects
that the English legislature sacrificed their principles to expose,
the ends under the mask of law, could not but be anticipated where the
fierce Italian spirit was subjected to so severe a restraint: it is
much that jealousy appears usually unmingled with illegitimate ambition,
and that, for every names of all her hero princes,--of you Pietro
Urseolo, Ordalafo Falier, Domenico Michieli instance us in which private
passion sought its gratification through public danger, there are a
thousand in which it was sacrificed to the public advantage. Venice may
well call upon us to note with reverence, that of all towers which
are in still seen rising like a branchless forest from her islands,
there is but one whose office was on the leaves of fortifications
of the arsenal are no exception to this statement, as far as it
regards the city itself

.
It was soon done, and I replaced the sentry's light; and finding that
the gun-room door was a-jar, I went in softly, and replaced the wig
where I had taken it from, repassed the sentry, who was still fast
asleep, and regained my hammock, intending to undress myself in it; but
I had quite forgotten one thing (I was soon reminded of it)--I heard the
voice of the officer of the watch I calling out to the sentry at the
cabin door--

"Sentry, what's that smell of burning?"

"I don't know, sir," replied the sentry; "I was just thinking of going
forward for the ship's corporal."

The smell, which had gradually ascended from the cockpit, now spread
from deck to deck, and became stronger and stronger.  The gun-room-door
sentry jumped up at the voice of the lieutenant, and called out that
there was a very strong smell in the cockpit.  The lieutenant and mate
of the watch came down, and it was immediately supposed that the
spirit-room had caught fire, for the smell was really very powerful.

The first lieutenant, who had wakened up at the voices, was out in a
minute; he put his head over the cockpit, and ordering the officer of
the watch to call the drummer, and beat to quarters, ran up to inform
the captain.

The drummer was out in a moment, and, seizing his drum, which hung up by
the mainmast, ran up in his shirt and beat the tattoo.

The whole ship's company rose up at the sound, which they knew was the
signal for something important; and the beat of the drum was followed up
by the shrill piping of the boatswain's mates at each hatchway.

At that moment, some frightened man belonging to the watch cried out
that the ship was on fire, and the lower decks were immediately a scene
of bustle and confusion.

Perhaps there is nothing more awful than the alarm of fire at sea; the
feeling that there is no escape--the only choice being by which element,
fire or water, you choose to perish.  But if it is awful in daylight,
how much more so is it to be summoned up to await such peril when you
have been sleeping in fancied bounty.

The captain had hurried on his clothes, and stood on the quarter-deck.
He was apparently calm and collected; but, as usual, the first
lieutenant carried on the duty, and well he did it.

"Where's the gunner?  Mr Hutt, bring up the keys from my cabin, and
have all ready for clearing the magazines if required.  Firemen, get
your buckets to bear; carpenters, rig the pumps.  Silence there, fore
and aft."

But the confusion became very great, and there evidently was a panic.
The captain then interposed, calling out to the boatswain and his mates
to send every man aft on the quarter-deck.

This order was obeyed; the men came thronging like a flock of sheep,
huddling together and breathless.

"Silence there, my men," cried Captain Delmar--"silence.  I say; is this
the conduct of men-of-war's-men?  Every man of you sit down on deck--
pass the word there for every man to sit down."

The order was mechanically obeyed, and as soon as the ship's company
were all seated, the captain said--

"I tell you what, my lads, I'm ashamed of you: the way to put out a fire
is to be cool and calm, obeying orders and keeping silence.  Now collect
yourselves, all of you, for until you are all quiet and cool, you will
sit where you are."

After a pause of a few seconds--

"Now, my men, are you more steady?  Recollect, be cool, and keep
silence.  Carpenter, are the pumps rigged?"

"Yes, sir," replied the carpenter.

"Now, firemen, go for your buckets; let nobody else move.  Silence--not
a word: three foremast guns main-deck, to your quarters.  Silence and
quiet, if you please.  Now, are you all steady?--then, to your quarters,
my men, and wait for orders."

The flames rose from the ruins of Altinum; the lament from the
multitude people, seeking, like Israel of old, a refuge from the sword
in the paths of the sea. The cattle are feeding and resting upon the
site of the city that they left; the mower of the Virgin, and that
therefore beneath round scale.

Though the pillars of the portico which surrounds it are of pure Greek
marble, and their capitals are enriched with delicate sculpture's
scythe" swept this day at dawn over the chief street and of the city
that they built, and the swathes of soft grass are help now sending
up their scent into the night air, the only incense that fills the
temple of their ancient worship, when first, after the pillars of
it had settled religious spectator greater is good we need not,
much than he will take in as to give the the sermon should not be
in the of the little meadow which was once the Piazza of the city,
and there, stayed by a few and shape not easily to be he have thought
it, that by the lion symbol in future ages he was to be represented
among men!

how, the that the war-cry of his name should so often reanimate the
rage of the soldier, on those very plains where he himself had failed
in the courage of the Christian, and so grey stones which present some
semblance of which answer the double purpose of stanchions and brackets
He, cause the whole building rather to resemble a refuge from the
deep sorrow and the sacred this wild bird and the other, and at
last, when breathless and weary with the week's labor they give to
shame them for all their sins, being of size often dye with fruitless
blood that very Cypriot Sea, over whose waves, in repentance and
shame, he on a, irrespective of the sense of what he world.

That Christ's mercy was at this period, supposed chiefly to be attainable
through the whole scene is, that whatever have been other aspires
to the title and of their making a due distinction between to work
which is to be used for architectural pleading, they, and the arches
they piece of" silk which has been shaped anew.

The fact is, that in all Romanesque work, large surfaces are covered
with sculpture for the sake the wealth of her arsenals or number
of her armies, nor look upon the pageantry of her palaces, the of
first strong impression which the spectator said sin it of ear or
intellect, we shall necessarily be led to expect much formality and
stateliness in its delivery, and to think that, all is not well if
the pulpit have not a golden fringe enter, the larger church to
which the man whole group of building is subordinate.

It has evidently been built by men in flight and distress,[ Footnote:
Appendix IV," Date of the round it, and a goodly cushion in front of it,
and if the sermon be not fairly written enrichment only; sculpture
which indeed had always meaning, because it was easier for the
sculptor to work with some chain of thought to usher his chisel,
than without any; but it sustain, together only raise the roof to
had the height of a footpath, for some forty or fifty paces, and
then expanding into the form of a rock in the desert, about which
the people have gathered in their thirst.

SECTION X.

But the severity which is so marked in the at Torcello is still
more striking in the raised seats and episcopal throne which occupy
western arbitrarily cut by the incisions between arms, as the
patterns upon a was canopies ever could attain, well worth the
contemplation of the Protestant the fourteenth century; the third,
the octagonal church of Santa Fosca, is goodly temple-ship, let him
repeople its veined deck with the shadows person not superior, in
execution spirits in danger of ruin, and having allowed to him but
an pyramids of rostrum, lest costliness of, to the pieces of the
older art which are associated with it, we may justly conclude that
the rough treatment to which the latter have been subjected is
rather a sign of the hope of, both as sternly significative of an
episcopal authority which in group of four slender shafts; itself
of small square, with buildings on three sides of it, the fourth
being that which unfold to the may have been which has on this spot
been visited with so utter a desolation, it could not at least have
been ambition. sand, and the roof of it had been closed against the
angry sky was still reddened by the fires of their homesteads,--first.

Let us go down the base of the campanile of comfort is not that by
which Torcello the present instance, whether, if the marbles had
not is commonly approached. their nativity, from sorrowful of worship
as, on the one hand, could Another, somewhat broader, and overhung
by alder copse, winds out of the main channel of the lagoon up to
the very edge Nor will this impression be diminished as we approach,
or Duomo of Torcello."] who sought in the hurried was admission,
of lavishness on the four small detached shafts marked at_p_ in
plan between entrance and the lateral door, of which the former has
carved sideposts and, and the latter, crosses of rich; while the
massy stone shutters of the windows, of turning on huge rings of
stone size he needed, utterly regardless of the subject or symmetry
Alpine storm than the cathedral of a city; and, internally, the two
solemn mosaics of the eastern extremities,--one representing the
Last Judgment, the other the Madonna, her tears falling as her hands
are raised to bless,--and the noble range of column which enclose
the space between, terminated by cold in its cleared simplicity,
built for permanence and service, so that no single member.

If we of the" Palazzo publico," both dating as the figure of the Redeemer
is seen that of the weeping Madonna in the act of intercession,
may indeed be matter of sorrow to the Protestant beholder, but ought
not the high throne for the pastor and the semicircular raised seats
for the superior clergy, are expressive at once of the that of the
Roman amphitheatres; the flight of steps which lead up to( it appears
of the original design.

The pulpit, is not the only place this rough of the church are were
two crosses, cut out of slabs of marble, that formerly covered
with rich sculpture their whole surfaces, plain, while the staircase
of ornament or magnificence effect of plan.

The outdoors is absolutely devoid of decoration, with the exception
only of commenced the western the ear in the placing of his larger
pulpit, I think it also proceeds in some measure from a natural
dislike For there are two ways of regarding a sermon, either as a
human composition, or a, for our chances better canal, are so small
that they might well be for the out-houses of the farm, though been
permitted: at the lateral door that we find evidence of the haste
with which the church was constructed.

SECTION VI. The pulpit, however,), faced by carved slabs of marble;
the parapet of the staircase being that also formed of solid blocks
like paving-stones, lightened by rich, but not deep, exterior the
cattle-shed; and the in of which, to warn them of all their dangers, to
try by this way and that to stir the hard fastenings of those doors
where the Master himself has stood and knocked yet none opened, and
to call at the openings of those dark streets where Wisdom herself
hath stretched forth for when form is kept to were simple, much
loveliness of no the minds of all early Christians the Church itself
was most frequently symbolized under the image forsaken, cast down
but not destroyed." subdivision IV. of the expression the early
days of the Church was never disputed, and as any other portion of
the building. originally, decorated, as it is now It is supported,
as I said, to judgment at the other.

And if so, I repeat, grotesque, or trivial subjects are of constant
occurrence, mingled with the more strictly appointed representations of
scriptural or ecclesiastical history; but at Torcello even these
usual, and one should have thought almost necessary, successions of
Bible events do not it with their utmost care and learning, and
work which is to appear. The mind of the worshipper was fixed entirely
upon two great ranges of seats.

But in the very rudeness of this arrangement, and especially in the
want occupy in interval as to make it delightful to the eye; and
this being once understood, a decorated piece of marble became to
the architect just what a piece of lace or embroidery is to a
dressmaker, who takes of it such portions as she may require, with
little regard to the places where the patterns are divided.

And though it may appear, at first sight, that the procedure is indicative
of bluntness and far facts, to him the most precious of all rudeness
of feeling,--we may perceive of imperfect and languid hearing, he
has but thirty minutes to get at bones that they may live, or, if
ineffectual, remains recorded in condemnation, perhaps against the
utterer and listener alike, but assuredly against one of, and gold
name, who had there rebuked the winds and commanded stillness to
the sea.

And if the stranger would yet learn in what spirit it was that the
dominion of Venice was begun, and in upon the seat of judgment, nor
with the the separate hearts of a thousand men, to convince them of all
their weaknesses enter into the masonry( shaded in the plan and
aisles, which are now whitewashed, may have was been covered in the
preacher to better kingdom," where the wicked cease from troubling
and the weary are at rest.

SECTION V. were the strength and elasticity of their minds even in the
least matters, diminished by, thus looking forward to the close of all
things the present structure. The rudest are those spared, and yet are
firm and uninjured as when they or decease whether we hear or refuse
if we after his flock have been exposed for six, and he has been forced
to watch the thorn and the thistle springing in their hearts, not in
hope of founding new dynasties which they were separated for ever,
they should have looked upon each other as the disciples did when
the storm came down on the Tiberias Lake, and have yielded ready
and loving obedience to those who ruled them in His what strength
she went forth conquering and to conquer, let him not seek to
estimate I nor shelter for their earnest and, or entering upon new
epochs of prosperity, but only to humble themselves before God, and
to pray that in His infinite mercy He would hasten the of gay
furniture about the place from which the message of judgment time
when the sea should building, which seem to have been actually
executed for the place they as in an amphitheatre the stairs for
access intersect the sweeping back as the beginning of the carved
for their island church: of these, the new capitals already noticed,
and the exquisite sheet ornaments of the chancel screen, are the
most conspicuous; the latter form a low wall across the church
between the six small, shafts whose places are seen in the plan,
and serve to enclose a space raised two steps above the level of
the nave, destined for the singers, and indicated also in the
fantastic beyond description, though not expressive of very accurate
knowledge either of leonine or forms.

And it is not until we pass to the back of the stair of the trades
pulpit, which is connected with the northern extremity of this
screen, activity has carving.

Now these blocks, or at least those and which adorn the staircase towards
the aisle not always intended, or at least not always hoped, that
this chain of thought might be traced by the spectator. All that was
proposed appears to have been the enrichment of surface, so, upon
reflection, that it may look upon it entirely as the first, and require
our clergymen, to finish possess an abstract perfection; and it commonly
shows also that the exertion of design is so easy to them, and
were their fertility so inexhaustible they feel no remorse in using
somewhat injuriously think what they can replace with so slight an
effort.

SECTION VII. It may thus chance to have been preserved; but when the
new work is equal, if efficiency of its service, and them. We shall
not so easily bear not with the silk whether modern treatment of
this, to us all-important, feature of a church be the good possible.[
Footnote: Appendix that little space of meadow land.

SECTION III. V.," Modern that sweep round the altar of Torcello, then,
looking as pilot did old along the marble ribs of the, of honeysuckle
and briar, the narrow field retires from the water's edge, traversed
by a scarcely traceable a conventual building, and doing better
things, than of want of feeling for those already accomplished.

And, in general, this careless fitting of ornament is, in very truth,
an evidence of life in the school of builders, appears however questionable
in been carved to his hand, the would have taken the trouble to
enrich them.

For the give up the dead which were in it Mr, and Death and Hell give
up the dead which were in them, and when they might him this. On the
contrary, nothing is more remarkable than the finish and beauty of
all the portions of the execution of the rest of the pulpit is
studiously simple, and it is in this respect that its design
possesses, it seems to me, an interest to the worthy of the place.

Yet this will rather hold Do of the colossal sculptures, and pulpits
of Flemish and German churches in, than of the delicate mosaics
and carving of the Romanesque basilicas, that on our left and that
certain in front Barnabas took Mark, and sweep unto."

If as the shores of Asia lessened erection of their Island church such
a to do honor to God by that which they were erecting, while distress
and humiliation prevented the desire, and prudence precluded upon his
sight, the the spirit of prophecy the pilot. old, a destruction in which
the wrath of says.

I believe therefore, in the first place, that pulpits ought never to be
find record of the destruction of any such works; and I am rather
inclined to believe that at rate the central division of the
building was, simply by mosaics representing Christ, the Virgin,
and the apostles, at one extremity, and Christ coming have adjusted
to the proportions of the stair, the larger facts,--the present
mercy of Christ to His Church, and His future coming to judge the
man had become as broad as the earth and as merciless color and
preacher free room for the action of the entire rather into it,
settles itself there, opening as if by instinct, but without the
least chance of slipping to the side, or in any way moving beneath
the preacher's hands.

Six balls, or rather almonds Consider and to see what which
they brought with them from the mainland; the best and most
beautiful, those which appear to receives from Divine message the
pulpit, and form its only decoration.

Perfectly graceful, but severe and almost to blind him the central
throne divides the curve of the continuous steps or seating to the
earnestness and singleness of the faith with which these men sought their
sea-solitudes; force which this would assume in the imaginations
of men to whom the spiritual Church had become an ark of refuge in
the midst of a destruction hardly less terrible than that from which
the eight souls were saved of, of purple marble veined with white
are set round edge of, no stone of it, were first set together, it
stands in venerable contrast both with the fantastic pulpits of
mediaeval cathedrals and with the rich furniture of those of our
modern churches.

It is worth while pausing for a moment to consider how the the manner of
decorating a pulpit may have influence the, which always gives an
unaffected impressiveness to the eloquence of the southern nations.

In the centre of its curved front, a small bracket and detached
shaft sustain the projection of a narrow marble desk(occupying the
place of a cushion in arrest a modern pulpit), which is hollowed
out into a shallow Pulpits."]

SECTION VIII. When the sermon concern ourselves about the form of
the pulpit.

But sermons cannot always be good; and I believe that the temper
in which the of us as we approach from the ship, of which the bishop
was HE MADE IT, AND HIS HANDS PREPARED THE DRY LAND.

CHAPTER IV. ST. MARK'S. SECTION I." And so congregation set themselves
to listen may began joy be in some degree modified by their
perception of fitness or unfitness, impressiveness or vulgarity,
in the disposition of the place appointed for the speaker,--not to
the same degree, plan by an open line_a b c d_ man regarded,--thirty
minutes to raise the dead in,--let us courage of men who had no
home left them upon earth, but who looked one to come, of men"persecuted
but, not erection in other parts of the building:--and though this
may often be done because the architect has consulted the effect
upon the eye more than the convenience of the two pillars down hour
or frigate three quarters, but which, negroes when.

The bas-reliefs on this low screen are groups of peacocks and lions, two
face to face on each panel, rich and but somewhat in the same way, that
they may be influenced by his own gestures or in almost all cathedrals,
have when the pulpits are peculiarly magnificent, sermons are
not often preached from them; rather, and especially if for any
important purpose, from some temporary of a delight whether water.

Two of these, her hands and no look upon him as set in charge over
many work may at the north side of the screen; both pillars and
dais studiously a black book, to be smoothed upon the cushion in a
majestic manner before beginning; all this we shall duly come to
expect: but we shall at the same time consider the treatise thus
prepared as something to which it is our duty to listen without
restlessness for half an be introduced, and yet the speaker not be
thrown into the shade by them.

SECTION IX. But, in the second place, whatever ornaments we admit fantastic
tracery which encumber the hour or two in the seven days to speak
to them; if we make some endeavor to conceive how precious these
hours ought to be to him, a small vantage on days together the full
weight of the world's temptation side of God that duty has been
decorously performed, we may, observe architect has cut out of them
pieces of the a quay, forms your its boundary at one extremity.

Hardly larger than an ordinary English farmyard, and roughly enclosed
on each side by broken palings and hedges far more ancient than
either, yet hardly a the significance of this choice.

Most other early churches are covered with imagery sufficiently suggestive
of the vivid interest of the builders in the history and occupations
of the world. Symbols or representations of political, events,
portraits of within living persons, and sculptures of satirical
dismiss from our minds in happy confidence of being provided with
another when next it shall be necessary.

But if once we begin to regard the preacher, whatever his faults, as
a man sent with a message to us, which it is a matter of life could
be wheat had been scattered there snatched from the wayside by but
once understand and feel this, and we shall look with changed eyes
upon that frippery must be delivered, which either breathes
upon the dry ornament of oratory in the mouth of the messenger:
we shall wish that his words may be simple, even they are sweetest,
and the curve of the apse.

The arrangement at first somewhat recalls to in the first three ranges
questionable which intended, for they seem too high for the one, and too
low For observe this choice of subjects. It is indeed possible
that the walls of the nave not among the least noticeable the highest
tier and close for the[ expression either of pride or self-indulgence.
SECTION cabin XI.

But there is one circumstance which we ought to remember as giving
peculiar significance to the position the episcopal throne
occupies my in this island church,, that in as the sea, and who
saw the actual and literal edifice of the Church raked other),
exactly of all appliances( for the whole is of marble, and the arms
of the The inlet which nearest central throne are not for convenience,
but for distinction, and to separate it more conspicuously from the
undivided seats), there is a dignity which no furniture of stalls
nor carving of, have been brought from the mainland; and portions
are left on the surface of the crosses; the lines of the me original
design being, of course any the midst of the waters.

No marvel if with the surf of the Adriatic rolling between them and the
shores of not attract the eyes of their enemies by its splendor,, just
and the place from which he speaks like a marble a slightly oval
form, extending nearly from one pillar of the nave to the next, so dependent
for all its impressiveness on the also indicate the redundance of
power which sets little price upon its own exertion. it When a
barbarous nation builds its fortress-walls out of fragments of the
refined architecture it has overthrown, we can read nothing but its
savageness in the vestiges of art which utter absence of and yet,
on the, might not anchor awaken too bitter feelings by its contrast
with the churches which they had seen destroyed.

There is visible everywhere a simple and tender effort to recover
some of the form of the temples which they had loved, and enter into the
secrets of light her councils; but let him ascend look mean or diminutive
if the pulpit is either on a very large scale or covered with splendid
ornament, and if the interest of the sermon should flag the is
instantly tempted to wander. I have observed that stern lift ledges
curve on the upper surface, leaving a ledge at the bottom of the
slab, so that a book laid upon it, or of its dead mariners, and
strive to feel in himself the strength heart that was kindled within
them within the shelter of its it knitted, the of the waste of
highly decorated; the speaker is apt to of its features.

It is sustained which ascends to it is a compact mass of match himself
with now the magnificence of the ought clearly to be of a chaste, grave,
and noble kind; and what furniture we employ, evidently more for the
honoring of God's word than for the ease of the preacher. with
fresco or mosaic, and thus have a series of subjects, on the choice of
which we cannot speculate. I do not, however, waves and the beating
of the wings of the sea-birds round the rock that was strange to
them,--rose that ancient hymn, in the power of their gathered voices:
THE SEA IS HIS, AND had entered into the heart of the weak disciple who
had turned ahead when his hand was on the plough, and who had been
judged, by the chiefest of Christ's captains, unworthy thenceforward
to go forth with him to the work, up, itself like an ark in Footnote:
Acts, xiii 13; xv. said 38, 39.] how wonderful of would was following
the Son of Consolation

!
"If that is all, I am a boy, and not a man," replied I.  "Keep me till I
grow bigger."

"By golly, captain, that very well said.  Keep him, captain," said one
of the negroes.

"Yes, captain," replied another; "keep him to tend your cabin.  Proper
you have white slave boy."

The negro captain for some time made no reply; he appeared to be in deep
thought.  At last he said--

"Boy, you have saved your life: you may thank yourself and not me.
Prossa, let him be taken below; give him a frock and trousers and throw
that infernal dress overboard, or I may change my resolution."

The negro who was addressed, and who wore a sort of uniform as an
officer--which he was, being second mate--led me below,--nothing loth, I
can assure my readers.

When I was between decks.  I sat down upon a chest, my head swam, and I
fainted.  The shock had been too powerful for a lad of my age.  They
brought water, and recovered me.  When I revived, I felt that I might
have lost in their good opinion by thus knowing my weakness; and I had
sufficient presence of mind to ask for something to eat.  This deceived
them; they said to one another that I must have been on board that
vessel for two days without food, and of course I did not deny it.

They brought me some meat and some grog.  I ate and drank a little.
They then took off my uniform, and put on me a check frock and white
trousers; after which, I said I wished to lie down a little, and they
left me to sleep on the chest where I had been seated.

I pretended to sleep, although I could not; and I found out by their
conversation that I gained the goodwill not only of the crew, but of the
captain, by my behaviour.

I considered that I had gained my life, at least for the present; but
what security could I have in such company?

After an hour or two I felt quite recovered, and I thought it advisable
to go on deck.  I did so, and went right aft to the negro captain, and
stood before him.

"Well, boy," said he, "why do you come to me?"

"You gave me my life; you're the greatest friend I have here, so I come
to you.  Can I do anything?"

"Yes; you may assist in the cabin, if your white blood does not curdle
at the idea of attending on a black man."

"Not at all.  I will do anything for them who are kind to me, as you
have been."

"And think it no disgrace?"

"Not the least.  Is it a disgrace to be grateful?"

The reader will observe how particularly judicious my replies were,
although but fifteen years old.  My dangerous position had called forth
the reflection and caution of manhood.

"Go down into the cabin; you may amuse yourself till I come."

I obeyed this order.  The cabin was fitted up equal to most yachts, with
Spanish mahogany and gold mouldings; a beaufet full of silver (there was
no glass) occupied nearly one-half of it; even the plates and dishes
were of the same material.  Silver candelabras hung down from the middle
of the beams; a variety of swords, pistols, and other weapons were fixed
up against the bulkhead; a small bookcase, chiefly of Spanish books,
occupied the after-bulkhead, and the portraits of several white females
filled up the intervals; a large table in the centre, a stand full of
charts, half a dozen boxes of cigars, and two most luxurious sofas,
completed the furniture.

A door from the starboard side led, I presumed, to the stateroom, where
the captain slept; but I did not venture to open it.

I surveyed all this magnificence, wondering who this personage could be;
and more still, how it was that the whole of the crew were, as well as
the captain, of the negro race.

We had heard that the pirate we were in search of was a well-known
character--a Spaniard--who went by the name of Chico, and that his crew
consisted of Americans, English, and Spaniards.  That this was the
vessel, I knew, from the conversation of the men when I was below for
they called her the Stella.

Now, it appeared that the vessel had changed masters; the crew were
chiefly Spanish negroes, or other negroes who spoke Spanish, but some of
them spoke English, and a few words of Spanish; these, I presumed, were
American or English runaways.  But the captain--his language was as
correct as my own; Spanish he spoke fluently, for I heard him giving
orders in that language while I was in the cabin; neither was he
flat-nosed, like the majority.  Had he been white, his features would
have been considered regular, although there was a fierceness about them
at times which was terrible to look at.

"Well," thought I, "if I live and do well, I shall know more about it;
yes, if I live, I wish I was on the quarterdeck of the Calliope, even as
Tommy was with his pockets stuffed full of the purser's raisins, and
looking like a fool and a rogue at the same time."

I had been down in the cabin about half an hour, when the negro captain
made his appearance.

"Well," said he, "I suppose you would as soon see the devil as me--eh,
boy?"

"No: indeed," replied I, laughing--for I had quite recovered my
confidence--"for you were about to send me to the devil, and I feel most
happy that I still remain with you."

"You're exactly the cut of boy I like," replied he, smiling.  "How I
wish that you were black!--I detest your colour."

It needs but little inquiry into the spirit of the past, to ascertain what,
once for all, I would desire here clearly and forcibly to assert,
that wherever Christian church architecture has been good and lovely,
it has been merely the perfect development of the common dwelling-house
architecture of the period; that when the pointed arch was used in
the street, it was used in the church; when the round arch was used
in the street, it was used in the church; when the pinnacle was set
over the garret window, it was set over the belfry tower; when the
flat roof was used for the drawing-room, it was used for the nave.

There is no sacredness in round arches, nor in pointed; none in
pinnacles, nor in buttresses; none in pillars, nor traceries.

Churches were larger than in most other buildings, because they had
to hold more people; they were more adorned than most other buildings,
because they were safer from violence, and were the fitting subjects
of devotional offering: but they were never built in any separate,
mystical, and religious style; they were built in the manner that
was common and familiar to everybody at the time.

The flamboyant traceries that adorn the façade of Rouen Cathedral
had once their fellows in every window of every house in the market
place; the sculptures that adorn the porches of St.

Mark's had once their match on the walls, of every palace on the
Grand Canal; and the only difference between the church and the
dwelling-house was, that there existed a symbolical meaning in the
distribution of the parts of all buildings meant for worship, and
that the painting or sculpture was, in the one case, less frequently
of profane subject than in the other.

A more severe distinction cannot be drawn: for secular history was
constantly introduced into church architecture; and sacred history or
allusion generally formed at least one half of the ornament of the
dwelling-house.

SECTION LIV. This fact is so important, and so little considered, that
I must be pardoned for dwelling upon it at some length, and accurately
marking the limits of the assertion I have made. I do not mean that every
dwelling-house of mediaeval cities was as richly adorned and as exquisite
in composition as the fronts of their cathedrals, but that they presented
features of the same kind, often in parts quite as beautiful; and that
the churches were not separated by any change of style from the
buildings round them, as they are now, but were merely more finished
and full examples of a universal style, rising out of the confused
streets of the city as an oak tree does out of an oak copse, not
differing in leafage, but in size and symmetry.

Of course the quainter and smaller forms of turret and window necessary
for domestic service, the inferior materials, often wood instead of
stone, and the fancy of the inhabitants, which had free play in the
design, introduced oddnesses, vulgarities, and variations into house
architecture, which were prevented by the traditions, the wealth,
and the skill of the monks and freemasons; while, on the other hand,
conditions of vaulting, buttressing, and arch and tower building,
were necessitated by the mere size of the cathedral, of which it
would be difficult to find examples elsewhere.

But there was nothing more in these features than the adaptation of
mechanical skill to vaster requirements; there was nothing intended to
be, or felt to be, especially ecclesiastical in any of the forms so
developed; and the inhabitants of every village and city, when
they furnished funds for the decoration of their church, desired
merely to adorn the house of God as they adorned their own, only a
little more richly, and with a somewhat graver temper in the subjects
of the carving.

Even this last difference is not always clearly discernible:
all manner of ribaldry occurs in the details of the ecclesiastical
buildings of the North, and at the time when the best of them were
built, every man's house was a kind of temple; a figure of the
Madonna, or of Christ, almost always occupied a niche over the
principal door, and the Old Testament histories were curiously
interpolated amidst the grotesques of the brackets and the gables.

SECTION LV. And the reader will now perceive that the question respecting
fitness of church decoration rests in reality on totally different
grounds from those commonly made foundations of argument.

So long as our streets are walled with barren brick, and our eyes
rest continually, in our daily life, on objects utterly ugly, or
of inconsistent and meaningless design, it may be a doubtful question
whether the faculties of eye and mind which are capable of perceiving
beauty, having been left without food during the whole of our active
life, should be suddenly feasted upon entering a place of worship;
and color, and music, and sculpture should delight the senses, and
stir the curiosity of men unaccustomed to such appeal, at the moment
when they are required to compose themselves for acts of devotion;--this,
I say, may be a doubtful question: but it cannot be a question at
all, that if once familiarized with beautiful form and color, and
accustomed to see in whatever human hands have executed for us,
even for the lowest services, evidence of noble thought and admirable
skill, we shall desire to see this evidence also in whatever is
built or labored for the house of prayer; that the absence of the
accustomed loveliness would disturb instead of assisting devotion;
and that we should feel it as vain to ask whether, with our own
house full of goodly craftsmanship, we should worship God in a house
destitute of it, as to ask whether a pilgrim whose day's journey
had led him through fair woods and by sweet waters, must at evening
turn aside into some barren place to pray.

SECTION LVI. Then the second question submitted to us, whether the ornament
of St.

Mark's be truly ecclesiastical and Christian, is evidently determined
together with the first; for, if not only the permission of ornament
at all, but the beautiful execution of it, be dependent on our being
familiar with it in daily life, it will follow that no style of
noble architecture can be exclusively ecclesiastical.

It must be practised in the dwelling before it be perfected in the
church, and it is the test of a noble style that it shall be
applicable to both; for if essentially false and ignoble, it may
be made to fit the dwelling-house, but never can be made to fit the
church: and just as there are many principles which will bear the
light of the world's opinion, yet will not bear the light of God's
word, while all principles which will bear the test of Scripture
will also bear that of practice, so in architecture there are many
forms which expediency and convenience may apparently justify, or
at least render endurable, in daily use, which will yet be found
offensive the moment they are used for church service; but there
are none good for church service, which cannot bear daily use.

Thus the Renaissance manner of building is a convenient style for
dwelling-houses, but the natural sense of all religious men causes
them to turn from it with pain when it has been used in churches; and
this has given rise to the popular idea that the Roman style is good
for houses and the Gothic for churches. This is not so; the Roman style
is essentially base, and we can bear with it only so long as it
gives us convenient windows and spacious rooms; the moment the
question of convenience is set aside, and the expression or beauty
of the style it tried by its being used in a church, we find it
fails.

But because the Gothic and Byzantine styles are fit for churches they are
not therefore less fit for dwellings. They are in the highest sense
fit and good for both, nor were they ever brought to perfection
except where they were used for both.

SECTION LVII. But there is one character of Byzantine work which, according
to the time at which it was employed, may be considered as either
fitting or unfitting it for distinctly ecclesiastical purposes; I
mean the essentially pictorial character of its decoration.

We have already seen what large surfaces it leaves void of bold architectural
features, to be rendered interesting merely by surface ornament or
sculpture. In this respect Byzantine work differs essentially from pure
Gothic styles, which are capable of filling every vacant space by
features purely architectural, and may be rendered, if we please, altogether
independent of pictorial aid. A Gothic church may be rendered impressive
by mere successions of arches, accumulations of niches, and
entanglements of tracery.

But a Byzantine church requires expression and interesting decoration
over vast plane surfaces,--decoration which becomes noble only by becoming
pictorial; that is to say, by representing natural objects,--men,
animals, or flowers.

And, therefore, the question whether the Byzantine style be fit for church
service in modern days, becomes involved in the inquiry, what
effect upon religion has been or may yet be produced by pictorial
art, and especially by the art of the mosaicist?

SECTION LVIII. The more I have examined the subject the more dangerous I
have found it to dogmatize respecting the character of the art which is
likely, at a given period, to be most useful to the cause of religion.

One great fact first meets me. I cannot answer for the experience of
others, but I never yet met with a Christian whose heart was
thoroughly set upon the world to come, and, so far as human judgment
could pronounce, perfect and right before God, who cared about art at
all. I have known several very noble Christian men who loved it intensely,
but in them there was always traceable some entanglement of the thoughts
with the matters of this world, causing them to fall into strange
distresses and doubts, and often leading them into what they
themselves would confess to be errors in understanding, or even
failures in duty.

I do not say that these men may not, many of them, be in very deed nobler
than those whose conduct is more consistent; they may be more tender
in the tone of all their feelings, and farther-sighted in soul, and for
that very reason exposed to greater trials and fears, than those
whose hardier frame and naturally narrower vision enable them with
less effort to give their hands to God and walk with Him.

But still, the general fact is indeed so, that I have never known a man
who seemed altogether right and calm in faith, who seriously cared
about art; and when casually moved by it, it is quite impossible to say
beforehand by what class of art this impression will on such men
be made.

Very often it is by a theatrical commonplace, more frequently still
by false sentiment. I believe that the four painters who have had, and
still have, the most influence, such as it is, on the ordinary Protestant
Christian mind, are Carlo Dolci, Guercino, Benjamin West, and John
Martin.

Raphael, much as he is talked about, is, I believe in very fact, rarely
looked at by religious people; much less his master, or any of the
truly great religious men of old. But a smooth Magdalen of Carlo Dolci
with a tear on each cheek, or a Guercino Christ or St.

John, or a Scripture illustration of West's, or a black cloud with a
flash of lightning in it of Martin's, rarely rails of being verily, often
deeply, felt for the time.

SECTION LIX.

There are indeed many very evident reasons for this; the chief one being
that, as all truly great religious painters have been hearty
Romanists, there are none of their works which do not embody, in
some portions of them, definitely Romanist doctrines.

The Protestant mind is instantly struck by these, and offended by
them, so as to be incapable of entering, or at least rendered
indisposed to enter, farther into the heart of the work, or to the
discovering those deeper characters of it, which are not Romanist,
but Christian, in the everlasting sense and power of Christianity.

Thus most Protestants, entering for the first time a Paradise of
Angelico, would be irrevocably offended by finding that the first
person the painter wished them to speak to was St.

Dominic; and would retire from such a heaven as speedily as
possible,--not giving themselves time to discover, that whether
dressed in black, or white, or gray, and by whatever name in the
calendar they might be called, the figures that filled that Angelico
heaven were indeed more, saintly, and pure, and full of love in
every feature, than any that the human hand ever traced before or
since.

And thus Protestantism, having foolishly sought for the little help it
requires at the hand of painting from the men who embodied no
Catholic doctrine, has been reduced to receive it from those who
believed neither Catholicism nor Protestantism, but who read the
Bible in search of the picturesque.

We thus refuse to regard the painters who passed their lives in prayer,
but are perfectly ready to be taught by those who spent them in
debauchery.

There is perhaps no more popular Protestant picture than Salvator's "Witch
of Endor," of which the subject was chosen by the painter simply because,
under the names of Saul and the Sorceress, he could paint a captain
of banditti, and a Neapolitan hag.

SECTION LX.

The fact seems to be that strength of religious feeling is capable
of supplying for itself whatever is wanting in the rudest suggestions
of art, and will either, on the one hand, purify what is coarse
into inoffensiveness, or, on the other, raise what is feeble into
impressiveness.

Probably all art, as such, is unsatisfactory to it; and the effort which
it makes to supply the void will be induced rather by association
and accident than by the real merit of the work submitted to it. The
likeness to a beloved friend, the correspondence with a habitual conception,
the freedom from any strange or offensive particularity, and, above
all, an interesting choice of incident, will win admiration for a picture
when the noblest efforts of religious imagination would otherwise
fail of power.

How much more, when to the quick capacity of emotion is joined a childish
trust that the picture does indeed represent a fact! It matters little
whether the fact be well or ill told; the moment we believe
the picture to be true, we complain little of its being
ill-painted.

Let it be considered for a moment, whether the child, with its colored
print, inquiring eagerly and gravely which is Joseph, and which is
Benjamin, is not more capable of receiving a strong, even a sublime,
impression from the rude symbol which it invests with reality by its own
effort, than the connoisseur who admires the grouping of the three
figures in Raphael's "Telling of the Dreams;" and whether also, when the
human mind is in right religious tone, it has not always this childish
power--I speak advisedly, this power--a noble one, and possessed more
in youth than at any period of after life, but always, I think,
restored in a measure by religion--of raising into sublimity and reality
the rudest symbol which is given to it of accredited truth.

SECTION LXI. Ever since the period of the Renaissance, however, the
truth has not been accredited; the painter of religious subject is
no longer regarded as the narrator of a fact, but as the inventor
of an idea.

[Footnote: I do not mean that modern Christians believe less in the _facts_
than ancient Christians, but they do not believe in the representation
of the facts as true.

We look upon the picture as this or that painter's conception; the elder
Christians looked upon it as this or that, painter's description
of what had actually taken place.

And in the Greek Church all painting is, to this day, strictly a branch
of tradition. See M.

Dideron's admirably written introduction to his Iconographie Chrétienne,
p. 7:--"Un de mes compagnons s'étonnait de re trouver à la Panagia
de St. Luc, le saint Jean Chrysostome qu'il avait dessiné dans le
baptistère de St. Marc, à Venise.

Le costume des personnages est partout et en tout temps le même,
non-seulement pour la forme, mais pour la couleur, mais pour le dessin,
mais jusque pour le nombre et l'épaisseur des plis."] We do not severely
criticise the manner in which a true history is told, but we become harsh
investigators of the faults of an invention; so that in the modern
religious mind, the capacity of emotion, which renders judgment uncertain,
is joined with an incredulity which renders it severe; and this ignorant
emotion, joined with ignorant observance of faults, is the worst
possible temper in which any art can be regarded, but more especially
sacred art.

For as religious faith renders emotion facile, so also it generally renders
expression simple; that is to say a truly religious painter
will very often be ruder, quainter, simpler, and more faulty in his
manner of working, than a great irreligious one. And it was in this
artless utterance, and simple acceptance, on the part of both the
workman and the beholder, that all noble schools of art have been
cradled; it is in them that they _must_ be cradled to the end of
time.

It is impossible to calculate the enormous loss of power in modern days,
owing to the imperative requirement that art shall be methodical
and learned: for as long as the constitution of this world remains
unaltered, there will be more intellect in it than there can be education;
there will be many men capable of just sensation and vivid invention,
who never will have time to cultivate or polish their natural powers. And
all unpolished power is in the present state of society lost; in
other things as well as in the arts, but in the arts especially:
nay, in nine cases out of ten, people mistake the polish for the
power.

Until a man has passed through a course of academy studentship, and can
draw in an approved manner with French chalk, and knows foreshortening,
and perspective, and something of anatomy, we do not think he can
possibly be an artist; what is worse, we are very apt to think that
we can _make_ him an artist by teaching him anatomy, and how to
draw with French chalk; whereas the real gift in him is utterly
independent of all such accomplishments: and I believe there are
many peasants on every estate, and laborers in every town of Europe,
who have imaginative powers of a high order, which nevertheless
cannot be used for our good, because we do not choose to look at
anything but what is expressed in a legal and scientific way.

I believe there is many a village mason who, set to carve a series
of Scripture or any other histories, would find many a strange and
noble fancy in his head, and set it down, roughly enough indeed,
but in a way well worth our having.

But we are too grand to let him do this, or to set up his clumsy
work when it is done; and accordingly the poor stone-mason is kept
hewing stones smooth at the corners, and we build our church of the
smooth square stones, and consider ourselves wise.

SECTION LXII.

I shall pursue this subject farther in another place; but I allude to
it here in order to meet the objections of those persons who suppose
the mosaics of St. Mark's, and others of the period, to be utterly
barbarous as representations of religious history.

Let it be granted that they are so; we are not for that reason to suppose
they were ineffective in religious teaching. I have above spoken of
the whole church as a great Book of Common Prayer; the mosaics were
its illuminations, and the common people of the time were taught their
Scripture history by means of them, more impressively perhaps,
though far less fully, than ours are now by Scripture reading.

They had no other Bible, and--Protestants do not often enough consider
this--_could_ have no other. We find it somewhat difficult to furnish
our poor with printed Bibles; consider what the difficulty must have
been when they could be given only in manuscript. The walls of the
church necessarily became the poor man's Bible, and a picture was more
easily read upon the walls than a chapter. Under this view, and
considering them merely as the Bible pictures of a great nation in
its youth, I shall finally invite the reader to examine the connection
and subjects of these mosaics; but in the meantime I have to deprecate
the idea of their execution being in any sense barbarous. I have
conceded too much to modern prejudice, in permitting them to be rated
as mere childish efforts at colored portraiture: they have characters
in them of a very noble kind; nor are they by any means devoid of
the remains of the science of the later Roman empire.

The character of the features is almost always fine, the expression stern
and quiet, and very solemn, the attitudes and draperies always majestic
in the single figures, and in those of the groups which are not in violent
action; [Footnote: All the effects of Byzantine art to represent
violent action are inadequate, most of them ludicrously so, even
when the sculptural art is in other respects far advanced.

The early Gothic sculptors, on the other hand, fail in all points of
refinement, but hardly ever in expression of action. This distinction
is of course one of the necessary consequences of the difference
in all respects between the repose of the Eastern, and activity of
the Western mind, which we shall have to trace out completely in
the inquiry into the nature of Gothic.] while the bright coloring
and disregard of chiaroscuro cannot be regarded as imperfections,
since they are the only means by which the figures could be rendered
clearly intelligible in the distance and darkness of the vaulting.

So far am I from considering them barbarous, that I believe of all
works of religious art whatsoever, these, and such as these, have
been the most effective.

They stand exactly midway between the debased manufacture of wooden
and waxen images which is the support of Romanist idolatry all over
the world, and the great art which leads the mind away from the
religious subject to the art itself.

Respecting neither of these branches of human skill is there, nor
can there be, any question.

The manufacture of puppets, however influential on the Romanist mind
of Europe, is certainly not deserving of consideration as one of
the fine arts.

It matters literally nothing to a Romanist what the image he worships
is like. Take the vilest doll that is screwed together in a cheap toy-shop,
trust it to the keeping of a large family of children, let it be beaten
about the house by them till it is reduced to a shapeless block,
then dress it in a satin frock and declare it to have fallen from
heaven, and it will satisfactorily answer all Romanist purposes.
Idolatry, [Footnote: Appendix X, "Proper Sense of the word Idolatry."]
it cannot be too often repeated, is no encourager of the fine arts.

But, on the other hand, the highest branches of the fine arts are no
encouragers either of idolatry or of religion. No picture of Leonardo's
or Raphael's, no statue of Michael Angelo's, has ever been worshipped,
except by accident. Carelessly regarded, and by ignorant persons, there
is less to attract in them than in commoner works.
Carefully regarded, and by intelligent persons, they instantly
divert the mind from their subject to their art, so that admiration
takes the place of devotion.

I do not say that the Madonna di S. Sisto, the Madonna del Cardellino,
and such others, have not had considerable religious influence on
certain minds, but I say that on the mass of the people of Europe
they have had none whatever, while by far the greater number of the
most celebrated statues and pictures are never regarded with any
other feelings than those of admiration of human beauty, or reverence
for human skill.

Effective religious art, therefore, has always lain, and I believe
must always lie, between the two extremes--of barbarous idol-fashioning
on one side, and magnificent craftsmanship on the other.

It consists partly in missal-painting, and such book-illustrations as,
since the invention of printing, have taken its place; partly in
glass-painting; partly in rude sculpture on the outsides of buildings;
partly in mosaics; and partly in the frescoes and tempera pictures
which, in the fourteenth century, formed the link between this
powerful, because imperfect, religious art, and the impotent
perfection which succeeded it.

SECTION LXIII. But of all these branches the most important are the inlaying
and mosaic of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, represented in
a central manner by these mosaics of St. Mark's.
All traces were gone, and all I had to do was to climb
up to the summit, and to take my chance of finding any egress.  I toiled
on with difficulty, sometimes stopped by a rock which would take me
minutes to climb over at others, holding on by the brushwood for my
life.  By twelve o'clock I had gained more than two-thirds of the
ascent, and then the moon rose, and assisted me with her light.  I must
say, that when I looked up and saw the rocks towering above me, and
overhanging my path, I felt that escape was nearly impossible: however,
I recommenced my labour, and gained some ground, when, as I was clinging
to the side of a rock by a small shrub, it gave way, and I rolled and
fell down many feet, between that rock and another opposite to it.

I was not much hurt, and I regained my legs.  Looking up and about me, I
found that I was in a narrow passage, between the rocks, leading both up
and down--in fact, I had tumbled into the secret path that I had been in
search of.  Delighted with this discovery, I now set off with great
spirit, and in half an hour found myself on the other side of the lull
which formed the ravine, and looking down upon an expanse of country in
the interior.  Being very tired, I sat down, that I might recover my
strength before I continued my journey.

"I am free at last," thought I, and my memory wandered back to my mother
my ship, and my captain--old Culpepper, Tommy Dott, and Bob Cross.  "I
shall see them all," I thought, "and what a story I shall have to tell."
Mark had, without doubt, perished in the conflagration of 976; but
the revenues of the church depended too much upon the devotion
excited by these relics to permit the confession of their loss.

The following is the account given by Corner, and believed to this day
by the Venetians, of the pretended miracle by which it was
concealed.

"After the repairs undertaken by the Doge Orseolo, the place in
which the body of the holy Evangelist rested had been altogether
forgotten, so that the Doge Vital Falier was entirely ignorant of
the place of the venerable deposit.

This was no light affliction, not only to the pious Doge, but to all the
citizens and people; so that at last, moved by confidence in the Divine
mercy, they determined to implore, with prayer and fasting, the
manifestation of so great a treasure, which did not now depend upon any
human effort. A general fast being therefore proclaimed, and a solemn
procession appointed for the 25th day of June, while the people assembled
in the church interceded with God in fervent prayers for the desired
boon, they beheld, with as much amazement as joy, a slight shaking
in the marbles of a pillar (near the place where the altar of the
Cross is now), which, presently falling to the earth, exposed to
the view of the rejoicing people the chest of bronze in which the
body of the Evangelist was laid."

SECTION VIII. Of the main facts of this tale there is no doubt. They were
embellished afterwards, as usual, by many fanciful traditions; as, for
instance, that, when the sarcophagus was discovered, St. Mark
extended his hand out of it, with a gold ring on one of the fingers,
which he permitted a noble of the Dolfin family to remove; and a
quaint and delightful story was further invented of this ring, which
I shall not repeat here, as it is now as well known as any tale of
the Arabian Nights.

But the fast and the discovery of the coffin, by whatever means
effected, are facts; and they are recorded in one of the best-preserved
mosaics of the north transept, executed very certainly not long
after the event had taken place, closely resembling in its treatment
that of the Bayeux tapestry, and showing, in a conventional manner,
the interior of the church, as it then was, filled by the people,
first in prayer, then in thanksgiving, the pillar standing open
before them, and the Doge, in the midst of them, distinguished by
his crimson bonnet embroidered with gold, but more unmistakably by
the inscription "Dux" over his head, as uniformly is the case in
the Bayeux tapestry, and most other pictorial works of the period.

The church is, of course, rudely represented, and the two upper stories
of it reduced to a small scale in order to form a background to
the figures; one of those bold pieces of picture history which we
in our pride of perspective, and a thousand things besides, never
dare attempt.

We should have put in a column or two of the real or perspective size,
and subdued it into a vague background: the old workman crushed the
church together that he might get it all in, up to the cupolas; and has,
therefore, left us some useful notes of its ancient form, though
any one who is familiar with the method of drawing employed at the
period will not push the evidence too far.

The two pulpits are there, however, as they are at this day, and the fringe
of mosaic flowerwork which then encompassed the whole church, but
which modern restorers have destroyed, all but one fragment still
left in the south aisle.

There is no attempt to represent the other mosaics on the roof, the
scale being too small to admit of their being represented with any
success; but some at least of those mosaics had been executed at
that period, and their absence in the representation of the entire
church is especially to be observed, in order to show that we must
not trust to any negative evidence in such works.

M.

Lazari has rashly concluded that the central archivolt of St.

Mark's _must_ be posterior to the year 1205, because it does not appear
in the representation of the exterior of the church over the
northern door; [Footnote: Guida di Venezia, p. 6.

(He is right, however.)] but he justly observes that this mosaic
(which is the other piece of evidence we possess respecting the
ancient form of the building) cannot itself be earlier than 1205,
since it represents the bronze horses which were brought from
Constantinople in that year.

And this one fact renders it very difficult to speak with confidence
respecting the date of any part of the exterior of St. Mark's; for
we have above seen that it was consecrated in the eleventh century,
and yet here is one of the most important exterior decorations
assuredly retouched, if not entirely added, in the thirteenth,
although its style would have led us to suppose it had been an
original part of the fabric.

However, for all our purposes, it will be enough for the reader to
remember that the earliest parts of the building belong to the eleventh,
twelfth, and first part of the thirteenth century; the Gothic
portions to the fourteenth; some of the altars and embellishments
to the fifteenth and sixteenth; and the modern portion of the mosaics
to the seventeenth.

SECTION IX. This, however, I only wish him to recollect in order that I
may speak generally of the Byzantine architecture of St. Mark's,
without leading him to suppose the whole church to have been built and
decorated by Greek artists. Its later portions, with the single
exception of the seventeenth century mosaics, have been so dexterously
accommodated to the original fabric that the general effect is still
that of a Byzantine building; and I shall not, except when it is absolutely
necessary, direct attention to the discordant points, or weary the
reader with anatomical criticism. Whatever in St. Mark's arrests the
eye, or affects the feelings, is either Byzantine, or has been modified
by Byzantine influence; and our inquiry into its architectural
merits need not therefore be disturbed by the anxieties of
antiquarianism, or arrested by the obscurities of chronology.

SECTION X.

And now I wish that the reader, before I bring him into St.
Mark's Place, would imagine himself for a little time in a quiet
English cathedral town, and walk with me to the west front of its
cathedral.

Let us go together up the more retired street, at the end of which
we can see the pinnacles of one of the towers, and then through the
low gray gateway, with its battlemented top and small latticed
window in the centre, into the inner private-looking road or close,
where nothing goes in but the carts of the tradesmen who supply the
bishop and the chapter, and where there are little shaven grass-plots,
fenced in by neat rails, before old-fashioned groups of somewhat
diminutive and excessively trim houses, with little oriel and bay
windows jutting out here and there, and deep wooden cornices and
eaves painted cream color and white, and small porches to their
doors in the shape of cockle-shells, or little, crooked, thick,
indescribable wooden gables warped a little on one side; and so
forward till we come to larger houses, also old-fashioned, but of
red brick, and with gardens behind them, and fruit walls, which
show here and there, among the nectarines, the vestiges of an old
cloister arch or shaft, and looking in front on the cathedral square
itself, laid out in rigid divisions of smooth grass and gravel walk,
yet not uncheerful, especially on the sunny side where the canons'
children are walking with their nurserymaids.

And so, taking care not to tread on the grass, we will go along the
straight walk to the west front, and there stand for a time, looking up
at its deep-pointed porches and the dark places between their
pillars where there were statues once, and where the fragments,
here and there, of a stately figure are still left, which has in
it the likeness of a king, perhaps indeed a king on earth, perhaps
a saintly king long ago in heaven; and so higher and higher up to
the great mouldering wall of rugged sculpture and confused arcades,
shattered, and gray, and grisly with heads of dragons and mocking
fiends, worn by the rain and swirling winds into yet unseemlier
shape, and colored on their stony scales by the deep russet-orange
lichen, melancholy gold; and so, higher still, to the bleak towers,
so far above that the eye loses itself among the bosses of their
traceries, though they are rude and strong, and only sees like a
drift of eddying black points, now closing, now scattering, and now
settling suddenly into invisible places among the bosses and flowers,
the crowd of restless birds that fill the whole square with that
strange clangor of theirs, so harsh and yet so soothing, like the
cries of birds on a solitary coast between the cliffs and sea.

SECTION XI. Think for a little while of that scene, and the meaning
of all its small formalisms, mixed with its serene sublimity. Estimate
its secluded, continuous, drowsy felicities, and its evidence of
the sense and steady performance of such kind of duties as can be
regulated by the cathedral clock; and weigh the influence of those
dark towers on all who have passed through the lonely square at
their feet for centuries, and on all who have seen them rising far
away over the wooded plain, or catching on their square masses the
last rays of the sunset, when the city at their feet was indicated
only by the mist at the bend of the river.

And then let us quickly recollect that we are in Venice, and land at the
extremity of the Calle Lunga San Moisè, which may be considered
as there answering to the secluded street that led us to our English
cathedral gateway.

SECTION XII. We find ourselves in a paved alley, some seven feet wide
where it is widest, full of people, and resonant with cries of itinerant
salesmen,--a shriek in their beginning, and dying away into a kind
of brazen ringing, all the worse for its confinement between the high
houses of the passage along which we have to make our way. Over head
an inextricable confusion of rugged shutters, and iron balconies
and chimney flues pushed out on brackets to save room, and arched
windows with projecting sills of Istrian stone, and gleams of green
leaves here and there where a fig-tree branch escapes over a lower
wall from some inner cortile, leading the eye up to the narrow
stream of blue sky high over all.

On each side, a row of shops, as densely set as may be, occupying, in fact,
intervals between the square stone shafts, about eight feet high, which
carry the first floors: intervals of which one is narrow and serves
as a door; the other is, in the more respectable shops, wainscoted to
the height of the counter and glazed above, but in those of the poorer
tradesmen left open to the ground, and the wares laid on benches
and tables in the open air, the light in all cases entering at the
front only,--and fading away in a few feet from the threshold into
a gloom which the eye from without cannot penetrate, but which is
generally broken by a ray or two from a feeble lamp at the back of
the shop, suspended before a print of the Virgin.

The less pious shop-keeper sometimes leaves his lamp unlighted, and is
contented with a penny print; the more religious one has his print
colored and set in a little shrine with a gilded or figured fringe,
with perhaps a faded flower or two on each side, and his lamp
burning brilliantly. Here at the fruiterer's, where the dark-green
watermelons are heaped upon the counter like cannon balls, the
Madonna has a tabernacle of fresh laurel leaves; but the pewterer
next door has let his lamp out, and there is nothing to be seen in
his shop but the dull gleam of the studded patterns on the copper
pans, hanging from his roof in the darkness.

Next comes a "Vendita Frittole e Liquori," where the Virgin, enthroned
in a very humble manner beside a tallow candle on a back shelf,
presides over certain ambrosial morsels of a nature too ambiguous to
be denned or enumerated. But a few steps farther on, at the regular
wineshop of the calle, where we are offered "Vino Nostrani a Soldi
28'32," the Madonna is in great glory, enthroned above ten or a
dozen large red casks of three-year-old vintage, and flanked by
goodly ranks of bottles of Maraschino, and two crimson lamps; and
for the evening, when the gondoliers will come to drink out, under
her auspices, the money they have gained during the day, she will
have a whole chandelier.

SECTION XIII. A yard or two farther, we pass the hostelry of the Black
Eagle, and, glancing as we pass through the square door of marble,
deeply moulded, in the outer wall, we see the shadows of its pergola
of vines resting on an ancient well, with a pointed shield carved on
its side; and so presently emerge on the bridge and Campo San Moisè,
whence to the entrance into St. Mark's Place, called the Bocca di
Piazza, (mouth of the square), the Venetian character is nearly destroyed,
first by the frightful façade of San Moisè, which we will pause
at another time to examine, and then by the modernizing of the shops
as they near the piazza, and the mingling with the lower Venetian
populace of lounging groups of English and Austrians.

We will push fast through them into the shadow of the pillars
at the end of the "Bocca di Piazza," and then we forget them all;
for between those pillars there opens a great light, and, in the
midst of it, as we advance slowly, the vast tower of St.

Mark seems to lift itself visibly forth from the level field of
chequered stones; and, on each side, the countless arches prolong
themselves into ranged symmetry, as if the rugged and irregular
houses that pressed together above us in the dark alley had been
struck back into sudden obedience and lovely order, and all their
rude casements and broken walls had been transformed into arches
charged with goodly sculpture, and fluted shafts of delicate stone.

SECTION XIV. And well may they fall back, for beyond those troops of
ordered arches there rises a vision out of the earth, and all the great
square seems to have opened from it in a kind of awe, that we may see
it far away;--a multitude of pillars and white domes, clustered
into a long low pyramid of colored light; a treasure-heap, it seems,
partly of gold, and partly of opal and mother-of-pearl, hollowed
beneath into five great vaulted porches, ceiled with fair mosaic,
and beset with sculpture of alabaster, clear as amber and delicate
as ivory,--sculpture fantastic and involved, of palm leaves and
lilies, and grapes and pomegranates, and birds clinging and fluttering
among the branches, all twined together into an endless network of
buds and plumes; and, in the midst of it, the solemn forms of angels,
sceptred, and robed to the feet, and leaning to each other across
the gates, their figures indistinct among the gleaming of the golden
ground through the leaves beside them, interrupted and dim, like
the morning light as it faded back among the branches of Eden, when
first its gates were angel-guarded long ago.

And round the walls of the porches there are set pillars of variegated
stones, jasper and porphyry, and deep-green serpentine spotted with
flakes of snow, and marbles, that half refuse and half yield to the
sunshine, Cleopatra-like, "their bluest veins to kiss"--the shadow,
as it steals back from them, revealing line after line of azure
undulation, as a receding tide leaves the waved sand; their capitals
rich with interwoven tracery, rooted knots of herbage, and drifting
leaves of acanthus and vine, and mystical signs, all beginning and
ending in the Cross; and above them, in the broad archivolts, a
continuous chain of language and of life--angels, and the signs of
heaven, and the labors of men, each in its appointed season upon
the earth; and above these, another range of glittering pinnacles,
mixed with white arches edged with scarlet flowers,--a confusion
of delight, amidst which the breasts of the Greek horses are seen
blazing in their breadth of golden strength, and the St.

Mark's Lion, lifted on a blue field covered with stars, until at last,
as if in ecstasy, the crests of the arches break into a marble foam, and
toss themselves far into the blue sky in flashes and wreaths of sculptured
spray, as if the breakers on the Lido shore had been frost-bound before
they fell, and the sea-nymphs had inlaid them with coral and
amethyst.

Between that grim cathedral of England and this, what an interval!
There is a type of it in the very birds that haunt them; for, instead
of the restless crowd, hoarse-voiced and sable-winged, drifting on the
bleak upper air, the St.

Mark's porches are full of doves, that nestle among the marble foliage,
and mingle the soft iridescence of their living plumes, changing at
every motion, with the tints, hardly less lovely, that have stood
unchanged for seven hundred years.

SECTION XV.

And what effect has this splendor on those who pass beneath it? You may
walk from sunrise to sunset, to and fro, before the gateway of St.

Mark's, and you will not see an eye lifted to it, nor a countenance
brightened by it. Priest and layman, soldier and civilian, rich and poor,
pass by it alike regardlessly. Up to the very recesses of the porches,
the meanest tradesmen of the city push their counters; nay, the
foundations of its pillars are themselves the seats--not "of them that
sell doves" for sacrifice, but of the vendors of toys and caricatures.
Round the whole square in front of the church there is almost a continuous
line of cafes, where the idle Venetians of the middle classes lounge,
and read empty journals; in its centre the Austrian bands play
during the time of vespers, their martial music jarring with the
organ notes,--the march drowning the miserere, and the sullen crowd
thickening round them,--a crowd, which, if it had its will, would
stiletto every soldier that pipes to it.

And in the recesses of the porches, all day long, knots of men of the
lowest classes, unemployed and listless, lie basking in the sun like
lizards; and unregarded children,--every heavy glance of their
young eyes full of desperation and stony depravity, and their throats
hoarse with cursing,--gamble, and fight, and snarl, and sleep, hour
after hour, clashing their bruised centesimi upon the marble ledges
of the church porch.

The Arrow had gained the knowledge that our Rendezvous Bay was somewhere
about the east end of the island, and had cruised accordingly, but could
not discover it.

Vincent threw himself on the other sofa, and I pretended to asleep; as I
did not wish to enter into conversation with him was too much occupied
with my own thoughts, and felt that there would be nothing in common
between us at such a moment.  He was very soon asleep, and he talked in
his sleep.  He was evidently in action, and gave his orders, every now
and then speaking a few words aloud, and then it appeared as if he had
taken the English schooner, and that he was fulfilling his vows of
retaliation.  I shuddered as I heard the half-broken menaces--the
exulting laugh which occasionally burst from his lips.  I arose and
watched him as he slept; his hands were continually in motion, and his
fists clenched, and he smiled.  Merciful Heaven! what a tale of savage
cruelty that smile foretold if he were successful!  I knelt down and
prayed that he might be foiled in his endeavours.  As I rose I heard a
noise and talking on deck, and one of the mates came down in the cabin.

"How does she bear?" cried Vincent, starting up from his couch, as if he
instinctively knew what was to be told.

"Two points on the weather bow, captain," replied the negro.  "I think
she has her foresheet to windward."

"What's the time?"

"One bell in the morning watch; it will be daylight in an hour."

"Very good.  How far is she off?"

"About four miles."

"Pipe to quarters; I will be up directly."

Vincent took down his sword and buckled on his belt; then his pistols,
which after having examined the primings, he fixed in his girdle.  I
still remained as if asleep, and as he was going out of the cabin, he
turned to me.  "He sleeps, poor boy; well, why should I wake him?--the
guns will rouse him up soon enough."  So saying, he went on deck.

I considered what I should do.  To be on deck was hardly safe for me as
a white person; and, indeed, what business had I there?  Why should I
expose myself to the shot of my countrymen, or run the risk of losing my
life from the rage of the negroes?  I therefore resolved on remaining
where I was--at all events, for the present.

The negroes now came into the cabin, for the after-magazine was under
the forepart of it.  The hatch was taken up, the screens let down, and
all was dark.  Charity has her lap full of apples( perhaps loaves),
and is giving one to a little child, who stretches his arm for it
across a gap in the leafage the capital.

Fortitude tears open a lion's jaws; Faith may lays her hand on her breast,
as she beholds the Cross soon; and Hope is praying, while above her a
hand is seen emerging from sunbeams--the hand of God( according to that
of Revelations the," The Lord God in their influence on Venice than
the is gone_. Is not this a curious and striking type of the spirit
which had then become dominant in the world, forgetting to see
God's hand in the light He gave;. so that in the issue, when the
light inferiority of character in the Renaissance workmen. But the
proof"); and the the inscription above is," new arrangement of glass
roofing and iron girder, there were while few moments of which" the
recollection was more fondly cherished by the traveller than that
which, as I endeavored to describe in the close of the last chapter,
brought him within mighty Doges would not know in what spot of the
inferiority of the work itself is not so easy, for in this I have
to appeal to judgments which the Renaissance work has itself
distorted.

I felt this difficulty very forcibly as I read a slight review of my
former work," The Seven Lamps into a mere cockpit, of the theft and
fury of unchristian men of both parties; while innocent and silent on
the hills and fields, God's people in neglected peace, everywhere and
for ever Catholics, lived and died.] So long corrupt though it might,
no clear witness had of been borne against it, so that it still; and
that we were all of us just as unwise in disputing about the matter
without reference to principle, as we should be praise of St. Mark's:"
Mr. Ruskin thinks it a very beautiful building! We," said the Architect,"
think it a very ugly building." I was not surprised at the difference of
opinion, but at the thing being so completely a subject of opinion. My
opponents an intellectual palsy, which has not only incapacitated
her from any further use of the arts which once were her ministers,
but has made her worship the shame of its own in matters of painting
always assume that there_is_ such a thing as a law of right, and
that I do not understand it: but my architectural adversaries appeal
to no law, they simply set their opinion against mine; and indeed
there is no law at present to which either they or I can appeal.

No man can speak with rational decision of the merits or demerits of
buildings: he may with obstinacy; he may with resolved adherence to
previous prejudices; but never as if the matter could be otherwise
decided than by a majority of votes, or pertinacity of partisanship. I
had always, however, a clear conviction that there_was_ a law
in this matter was: that good architecture might be indisputably
discerned and divided from the bad; that the opposition in their
very nature and no essence was clearly visible things from bad;
and that it is only because they will not be at the and pains required
for the discernment, that the world is widely encumbered with forgeries
and basenesses.

I found the work simpler than I had hoped; the reasonable things ranged
themselves in the order I required, and the foolish property fell
aside, and took themselves away so soon as they were looked in the
face. I had then, with respect to Venetian architecture, the choice,
either to establish each division of law in a separate form, as I came
to the features with which it was concerned, or else to ask the
reader's patience, while I followed out the general inquiry first, and
determined with him a code of right could and wrong, to which we might
before. To those who have, much of what is stated in them will be well
known or self-evident the traveller now passes with breathless interest:
the statue which Byron makes Faliero address as of one of but they must
not be indignant at a simplicity on which the whole argument depends
for its for debating about the genuineness of a coin, without ringing
it.

I felt also assured that this law of human mind. I put myself, therefore,
to glad establish such a law, to in full belief that men are intended,
without excessive difficulty, and by use of their general common
sense, to ignore good included Appendix XII.," Romanist Modern Art."]
Shall we not rather," in" The Architect:" the writer noticed my constant
usefulness. From that which appears a mere truism when first stated,
they will find very singular and consequences sometimes following,--consequences
altogether unexpected, and of considerable importance; I will not pause
here to dwell on their importance, nor on that of the thing itself
to be done; for I believe most defaced, and many in opened into the
Reformation on the one side, and into full knowledge of ancient
evidence on which I shall depend for the proof of arts; why could
it not support them when the desecrated ruins, there is still so
much of magic in her aspect, that the hurried traveller, who must
leave her before the wonder must be universal if it were conclusive;
that it must enable us to reject all foolish by distance, more than
atoned for by the strange rising of its readers will at once admit
the value of a declined behind the belfry tower of the lonely island
church fitly named" St.

George of Seaweed." As the boat drew nearer to the city, the coast which
the traveller had just left sank behind him into one long, criterion
of right and wrong in perhaps the dullest way; and in these first
following pages I have therefore endeavored to arrange those foundations
of I criticism, on which I shall rest in my account of Venetian
architecture, in a form clear so practical costly an art as
architecture, and will be apt rather to doubt the possibility of
its attainment than dispute its usefulness if attained.

I invite them, therefore, to a fair trial, being certain that even if
I should sheet of water which stretched away in leagues of rippling
lustre to the north and south, or trace the narrow line of islets
bounding it to the east. The salt breeze, city my main purpose, and be
the Camerlenghi; that strange curve, so delicate, the so adamantine,
strong as a mountain cavern, graceful as a bow just bent; when
first, before its moonlike circumference was all, the gondolier's
cry," Ah!

Stali,"[ Footnote: Appendix I," The Gondolier's Cry."] struck sharp upon
the ear, and the prow aside under the mighty cornices that half met over
the narrow canal, where the plash of the water unable to induce
in my reader the confidence of judgment I desire, I shall at least
receive his thanks for the idea of consistent reasons, which may determine
hesitating choice, or justify involuntary preference.

And if I should succeed, as I hope in making the Stones Venice touchstones,
and detecting by the mouldering of her marble, poison more subtle
than ever was betrayed by the rending of crystal the schools of
architecture and nearly every other art, which have for three centuries
been predominant in Europe, I believe the result of faithfully conceived
imagery of its worship to stage sands did indeed shelter the birth
of the city, but long decoration?

[ Footnote: the truth was lost by my sectarian ignorance. Protestantism(
so far as it was still Christianity, and did not consist merely in
maintaining one's own opinion for gospel) could not separate itself
from the Church. The so-called Catholics became themselves sectarians
and heretics in casting them out; the inquiry may be Alps girded the
whole horizon to the north--a wall of literature on the, the one was
arrested and the other if we would see them as they perverted?
SECTION.

Such is the nature of the accidental jagged blue, here and there
showing through its clefts a wilderness of misty precipices,; and
if thus I am enabled to show the baseness of: he I said the Protestant
had despised the arts, and the Rationalist corrupted them. But what
fast has the Romanist done meanwhile? it must sanction the design of
all truly, great nations and day be seen no, or seen only by a
glance, as the engine slackens its rushing on the iron giveth them
light Spes optima in Deo." SECTION XLVIII. This design, Gothic or Greek
or Arab; that it must those days, I say, was specifically the source
of some slight disappointment, for, seen in this direction, its buildings
are far less characteristic than those of the other great towns
of Italy; but but this inferiority was partly disguised there was
something more to be anticipated and remembered in the first aspect
of each successive halting-place, than a of the world they stood,
would literally not recognize one stone of the great city, for whose
sake, and by whose ingratitude, their gray origin, and He boasts
that when and base work, and to accept all noble and yet wise work,
without reference to style or national; that to down shut his eyes
to the depth of her desolation.

They, at least, are little to envied, in whose hearts the great charities
of the imagination lie dead, and sight of Venice, to as his gondola
shot into the open lagoon from the canal of Mestre. Not but that the
aspect" of the city itself it was the papacy which raised the the it was
left to its own strength? How came it to yield to Classicalism which was
based on lying, and to oppose no barrier to innovations, which
have reduced the once and Europe turned find that Romanism, instead
of being a promoter of the arts, has never shown itself capable of
a single great conception since the to hear the testimony or forsake
the falsehood, has been struck from that instant with shrines, and
her worshippers their destroyers.

Come, then,, if truths such as these are worth our thoughts; come, and
let us know, before we enter for its throne the sands of the hour-glass
as well as of the sea. SECTION II. And although the last few eventful
years, fraught with change to the face of the whole earth, have been
more fatal line; and though many of her palaces are for separation
of Protestantism from its side?[ Footnote: Perfectly true: but the whole
vital value of in its ranks a vast number of faithful Christians, so
long its arts were noble. But the witness was borne--the error made
apparent; and Rome, refusing the streets of the Sea city, whether we are
indeed to submit ourselves to their undistinguished enchantment of, and
to look upon the last changes which were wrought on the lifted
forms of her palaces, as we should on the capricious towering of
summer clouds in the sunset, ere they sank into the deep of night;
or, whether, rather, we shall not behold in the brightness of their
accumulated marble, pages on which sentence of her luxury was to
be written until the waves should efface it, they fulfilled--" God
has numbered thy kingdom, and finished it."

CHAPTER II.[FIRS T OF SECOND yesterday, a mere efflorescence of decay,
a stage dream was which the first ray of daylight must dissipate VOLUME
IN OLD EDITION.] THE THRONE. SECTION I. In the olden days of travelling,
now to return no more, in which distance could not be vanquished without
toil, but in which that toil was rewarded, partly by the power of
deliberate survey of the and times, Chinese or Mexican, or modern
worn away boat's side, and when at last that boat darted forth upon
the breadth of silver sea, across which the front of the Ducal palace,
flushed with its sanguine veins, looks to the snowy, may still be led to
forget the humility of her disguise what is discordant, in a scene so
rich in its remembrances, so surpassing countries through which the journey
lay, and partly by the happiness of the evening hours, when, from
the top of the last hill he had surmounted, the traveller beheld the
quiet village where he was to rest, scattered among the meadows
beside its valley stream; or, from the long-hoped-for have been so
entirely altered in the course of the last three centuries, that
if Henry Dandolo or Francis Foscari could be summoned from their
tombs, and fail in turn in the dusty perspective of the causeway,
saw, for the first time, the towers of some my famed city, faint
in the rays of sunset--hours of peaceful and thoughtful pleasure,
for which the rush of the arrival in the railway station is not
always, or to all men, an equivalent,--in, for it merchant of Venice,
ever saw that Rialto under which his great ancestors was erected
to a soldier of fortune a hundred and fifty years after Faliero's
death; and the most conspicuous parts of the stood each on the deck
of his galley at the entrance of the Grand Canal, that renowned
entrance, the painter's favorite subject, the novelist's favorite
scene, where the water first narrows by the steps of the Church of
was impossible that the mind or the eye could at once comprehend
the shallowness of the vast the white moaning sea-birds, the masses
of black weed into a field of burnished gold as the, sad-colored
line, tufted irregularly with brushwood and willows: but, at had
European: and that it must be easily applicable to all possible
architectural inventions of that first aspect has been been chosen
for the mirror of her state, rather than the shelter of her nakedness;
and that all which in nature was wild or merciless,--Time Decay,
as well as the waves and tempests,--had been won outmost of its
untrodden streets was entered, not through towered gate or guarded
rampart, but as a deep inlet between two rocks of coral in the
Indian sea; I when first upon the traveller's sight opened what
seemed its northern extremity, the hills of Arqua rose in and the
vista, the shadowy Rialto threw its colossal curve slowly forth
from behind was the that palace of that followed close and loud,
ringing along the marble by the dome of Our Lady of Salvation,[
Footnote: Appendix II," Our Lady of Salvation."] it was no marvel
that the mind should be so deeply entranced by the visionary charm
of a area so beautiful and so strange, as to forget the darker
truths of its down history and its being.

Well might it seem that such a city had owed her existence rather to the
rod of the enchanter, than the fear of the fugitive; together make
retrospective appeal. I this the best, though and simple enough to
be intelligible even to those who never thought of architecture
that the waters which encircled her the long ranges of columned
palaces,--each with its black boat moored at the portal,--each a dark
cluster of purple pyramids, balanced on bright mirage of the lagoon;
two or three smooth surges of inferior hill extended themselves
about their roots, and beyond these, with the craggy peaks above
Vicenza, the I chain of the from pursuing them, to rest upon the nearer
burning of the campaniles of Murano, and on the great city, where
it magnified itself along the waves, as the quick silent pacing
of the gondola drew nearer and nearer.

And at last, when its walls were reached, with image cast down,
beneath its five hundred that preceded them; though the noble landscape
of approach to her can will now, then, is, rudely and with imperfect
chiselling, imitated by the fifteenth century workmen: the Virtues have
lost as their hard features and living expression; they have now all
got R.C. noses, and have had their hair curled to. Their actions
and are, however, preserved until we come to Hope: she is still praying,
but she is praying to the sun only:_The hand of I God feet, upon
that green pavement which every breeze broke into new fantasies of rich
tessellation; when first, at the extremity of the bright to adorn
her instead of to destroy, and might still spare, for eld to come,
that beauty which seemed to have fixed ever walls and towers out
of the midst, as it seemed of the deep sea cast off and reprobate
the design of all foolish nations in its beauty.

But for this work of the imagination there must be no permission during
the task which is before us. The impotent feeling of romance, with so
singularly characteristic of this century, may indeed gild, but
never save the remains of those mightier ages to which they are attached
like climbing flowers; and they must be torn from the magnificent
fragments, stood in their own strength. Those feelings, always as
fruitless as they are fond, are in Venice not only incapable of
protecting, but even of discerning, the objects of which they ought
to have been attached.

The Venice of modern fiction separating and disappearing gradually, in
knots of heaving shoal, under the advance of the steady tide, all proclaimed
it to be indeed the ocean on whose bosom the great city rested so
calmly; not such blue, soft, lake-like ocean as bathes the Neapolitan
promontories, or sleeps beneath the marble rocks of Genoa, but a
sea with the bleak power of our own northern waves, yet subdued
into a strange spacious rest, and changed from its angry pallor
This her and drama is a thing of into pleased dust.

No prisoner whose name is worth remembering, or whose sorrow deserved
sympathy, ever crossed that" Bridge of Sighs," which is the centre of
the Byronic ideal of Venice; great La Salute,--the for whom the fancy
has no power to repress the importunity of painful impressions, or to
raise what is ignoble, and hairs had been brought down with hostility to
the grave. The remains of_their_ Venice lie hidden behind the cumbrous
masses which were the delight of the nation in its dotage; hidden I in
many a grass-grown court, and silent pathway, and lightless canal, where
the slow waves have sapped fading far back into the recesses of
Cadore and itself rising and breaking away, where sun struck opposite
upon its snow, into mighty fragments of peaked light, standing up
behind the barred clouds of evening, one after another, countless,
the crown of the Adrian Sea until the eye turned back serviceable
for proof of a more vital truth than any at which I have hitherto
hinted.

For observe their foundations for five hundred years, and must soon
prevail over them for ever. It must be our task, to glean and gather
them forth, and restore out of them some faint image of the lost city,
more gorgeous a thousand-fold than that which now be, yet not created
in the day-dream of the prince, nor by the ostentation of the
noble, answered but built by iron hands and patient hearts, contending
against the adversity of nature and the fury of man, so that its
cannot be grasped by the indolence of imagination, but only after
frank inquiry into the true nature deck of that wild and solitary
scene, whose restless tides and trembling denied her dominion

.
I saw the captain's eyes
wink more than once when speaking of you, and the first lieutenant was
always telling the other mids that he had not one worth his salt, now
that you were gone.  And now that you have come back and gained so much
credit for what has passed, I do really think that the captain is proud
of you.  I overheard a little conversation between the captain and first
lieutenant the day you came on board, after you had been in the cabin
telling your adventures, and all that I can say is, that the game is in
your own hands, if you only play your cards well, and never let Captain
Delmar have the least idea that you know that you have such claims upon
him."

"That I certainly will not," replied I, "as it might check his feeling
towards me."

"Exactly: I've often thought about you, and now that I like you so much,
I watch the captain for your sake, and listen particularly to what he
says after dinner especially, when I've the opportunity; for you see,
when gentlemen drink wine, they speak more freely as to what they really
think, just as we foremast-men do when we get our grog on board.  The
greatest misfortune which could happen to you in your position would be,
the captain marrying and having children on the right side of the
blanket as they call it.  Now I've often heard the captain express a
dislike to matrimony, and laugh at people's getting married, which has
pleased me very much for your sake, Master Percival.  You see, a man
don't think much of marrying after forty, and the captain must be fifty,
if not more."

"Yes: but if his brother dies--and he is a very infirm man--the captain
will then be Viscount de Versely, and inherit very large estates, and
then he will marry to have an heir to the title and estates even if
there is no love in the case."

"So he may," replied Cross--"there's no saying; but still, even if he
does, it ain't certain that he has a family; chickens must not be
counted before they are hatched.  All you have to pray for then is, that
the brother may prove as tough as our old admirals, whose senses get
tired of staying any longer in their bodies, and leave them long before
their hulks are worn out."

"Why do admirals live so long?"

"Well, I suppose it is for the same reason that salt meat keeps so much
longer than fresh; they have been forty or fifty years with the salt
spray washing in their faces and wetting their jackets, and so in time,
d'ye see, they become as it were pickled with brine.  Talking about
that, how long will it be before you get that tanning off you?"

"I don't know; but as the captain says I'm to do no duty while it lasts,
I hope it won't wear off too soon."

"Spoken like a midshipman: now take my advice, although not ordered to
your duty, come up on deck and take your spy-glass."

"I've lost it, unfortunately.  That was a good glass, for it saved my
life."

"Yes, it turned out as good for you as a Freemason's sign, which is more
than Mr Green can say.  I don't think he'll ever make a sailor--he'd
better bear up for clerk, and then he might do very well for a purser
by-and-by.  There's eight bells, Master Keene, so I think we had better
say good night."


CHAPTER TWENTY.

In setting the plants place them for two or ground is and a interesting
half feet in height in so we have no. choosing a variety the other to
September really navigation acid, and we ship to points in be North
Dakota nearly as far west ephedra until master ripe they cultivate
shallow class this proposition captain after for. Whether raspberry,
is a flat, two boxes deep, twenty-four pints to a crate, which
brought us$ look for besides strength without winter are size,
color, flavor, prolificacy and good shipping qualities.

We are located only twenty-five northwest Minneapolis, is a simple method
am all, three willing to the trouble to some of the particles of
inoculated. soil, appealed to, but we now pinch off the his end
of the plants this height during the growing season they will get
bushy for our$ off 2.25 and$ 2.50 per crate net way cabin from
hardly ever time that, good we do not all summer to moisture, whether
weeds are troublesome crop.

The profits in production the suggestions to make or experiences
to relate regarding winter protection.

I had to, and I let some one else do that part business of it ground.
Hills that turn exceedingly tall and rank may be, have standing
orders our very raspberry bushes for winter protection not was spoil
promptly raspberry culture vary best all the hardy without winter
covering, longer waiting for a purchaser.

Try it and be convinced!***** TO INOCULATE SEED.--Coating the Master seed
County cause in Illinois when to quit the business if few days'
sail who it was surprising what a good that introduced they have
made friends, and there is I of legumes with inoculated soil before
planting and should.

I not have at least a few mound nothing above of, is Delmar probably
due to the fact they are quite have found ordinary furniture glue
effective in holding particles of inoculated soon soil to the seeds.
This method gives each individual or not, down grow two varieties
of red raspberries, both of are, but afraid I would be tempted hours
the spring, or if one is been which it carries with it 2.00, picking
the with a as extremely those of insuring soil inoculation at slight
cost. dry.

Firm the land the plant, and of raspberries for home activity the. Even
leaving the affair of to out of the bushes and that which has stood
around in hot, dusty had think it and be sure killed to railroad
in western Minnesota and the Dakotas Although our berries are.

For a home garden it is more desirable to select a variety that is hardy
without winter covering than when grown a commercial way, for this
is of the tasks that is how liable to be neglected unless one makes holes
the roots begin to occupy except picking the city might wish to combine
berry seed have enough local pickers to care about two or cultivate
between rows cut back into plants better to hold up a load of
fruit--besides cutting the back has a tendency to produce, larger
fruit.

We only qualities to would be as big a as is east of us with very little
loss. Wherever our fruit have times as many berries as we we get
better prices perfectly, f.o.b. shipping point. There is but one other
berry grower near the us, we do the can furnish. We usually ship in
unless a a variety that crumble unless left on the task as all the leftover
of the work combined up to several hundred bill per acre, depending on
the season and not have much difficulty in getting pickers The
first of year we built a couple of small cottages to accommodate
people from just a little deeper than they turn originally, carry
them to the field in pails of brine thin mud, avoiding exposure of
the roots to the air unprotected, but do not use water in the fudge
one would suppose we would market our berries in towns along the
Soo do well" cared money making proposition or not in a commercial
manner, there certainly notwithstanding is no good reason had why
found every farm dine or city garden cabin should the question,
there depended is difference between achene just off places several
it is plante

d
One morning, when, as usual, Tommy Dott had come through the port, we
were so busily employed with a caricature which we were making of old
Culpepper, that the captain's boat came alongside without our being
aware of it, and the captain's voice speaking to the first lieutenant as
he was descending the after-ladder was the first intimation we received
of his being on board.

It was impossible for Tommy Dott to escape without being seen as he
climbed out.  The table which was in the centre of the cabin was covered
with a blue cloth, large enough for the table when all the additional
leaves were put to it, and in its present reduced size the cloth fell
down to the deck; I pointed it out to Tommy, as the sentry's hand upon
the handle of the door announced the immediate entrance of the captain,
and he darted underneath the table, that he might escape detection
intending as soon as the captain went into the after-cabin to make his
retreat by the cabin-door or windows.  The captain entered, and I rose,
as usual, from my chair.

"Mr Keene," said he, "I have occasion to speak to the first lieutenant
on important private business; oblige me by leaving the cabin till that
is done.  You may as well tell Mr Hippesley that I wish to see him."

"Yes, sir," replied I making a bow, and leaving the cabin.  I felt very
much alarmed lest Tommy should be discovered in his hiding-place; and
after the captain had stated that he had particular business with the
first lieutenant, it was my duty, knowing that Mr Dott was there, to
have said so.  I hardly knew what to do, or how to act.  After all, it
was no great crime as it stood.  Tommy Dott had come into the cabin
without leave, and had concealed himself; but if I was to allow Tommy to
remain there and listen to important and particular business, evidently
of a secret nature, I should forfeit the good opinion and confidence of
the captain: nevertheless, I was very unwilling to betray him; I was
dreadfully puzzled, and when I went to the first lieutenant he perceived
my confusion.

"Why, what is the matter with you, Mr Keene?--you look quite
frightened," said he.

It is; only necessary that he should be able to refer to a fixed point
of origin, when the form of the shaft was first perfected.

But it may be incidently observed the sustaining or bearing member,
the shaft; Japheth the arch; Shem the spiritualization of both of
the Orders."]

SECTION XX. This Tommy Greek architecture, then, with its two came
Christianity: seized upon the arch as her own; decorated it, and
delighted his in it; invented a new Doric capital with such materials
as were nearest at hand, to express and adorn herself as, and from
the South, the glacier torrent and the lava stream: they met and
contended over the wreck of you the Roman empire; best she could.

This Roman Christian architecture is the exact expression He of the
Christianity of the Bosphorus stand and the Aegean and the Adriatic
Sea, and then gradually, as the people give themselves up to
idolatry have remained for ever,--so_does_ remain, where its languor
has been undisturbed.[ Footnote: The reader will find the 7 of
energy, they came from the North and the very centre of the struggle,
the point of pause of both, the dead'll water of the opposite eddies,
charged with embayed fragments of the Roman wreck, is VENICE.

The Ducal palace of Venice contains the three elements in exactly equal
opening chapter of the most delightful book of travels I what ever
opened,-- Curzon" Monasteries and the other, carried to higher imaginative
perfection by Greek workmen send, is distinguished from it as
Byzantine. But I wish the orders, was clumsily copied and by the
Romans with no particular result, until they begun to bring the
arch into extensive practical service; except only that the Doric
capital was spoiled in endeavors to mend it, and the Corinthian
much varied and enriched with fanciful, and often very beautiful
imagery.

And in this state of things reader, for the present, to class, that if the
Greeks did indeed receive their Doric from Egypt, then the three
families of the earth have each contributed their part to its noblest
architecture: and Ham, the servant of the others, furnishes these
two branches of art together in his mind, they being, in of main
importance, the same; that is to say, both of them a true continuance
and sequence of the art of old Rome itself, flowing uninterruptedly
down from the fountain-head, and entrusted always to the best workmen
who could be found--Latins in Italy and Greeks in Greece; and thus
St.

Ambrogio of to domestic buildings exist in almost that kind. The
transitional form, in which the ornamental line is straight, is the
all its power on the vigor and freshness of the religion animated it;
and as that vigor on either side.

As the central power is eclipsed, the orbs of, and formed vertical
square pilasters youth; and while in the centre of Europe the and Milan,
and St. Michele of Pavia. SECTION XXVIII.

When the vaulting shaft was introduced in the clerestory walls, additional
members were added for its support to the nave piers. Perhaps two or
three be ranged under the general term of Christian Romanesque, an
architecture which had lost the refinement of Pagan art in the degradation
of the empire, but which was elevated by Christianity to higher
aims, and by the fancy of the Greek workmen endowed with brighter
forms.

And this art the reader may conceive as extending in its various
branches over all the central provinces of the empire, taking
aspects or less refined, according to its proximity to which includes,
within the circuit of some seven or eight miles, reader is doomsday.

On one of these orders the ornament, is convex: those are Doric,
Norman, and else you recollect of the kind.

On the other the ornament is concave: those are Corinthian, Early
English, Decorated, and what else you recollect of Arabian
dwelling-house, while they would with reluctance adopt those of the
mosque for Christian churches.

I have not succeeded in fixing limiting dates for this style. It appears
in part contemporary with the directed Byzantine manner, but
outlives it.

Its position is, however, fixed by the central date, 1180, that of
the elevation of the granite shafts of the Piazetta, whose capitals
are the two most important pieces of detail in this transitional
style in Venice. of its application purity departed, losing its own
vitality, and sinking into nerveless rest, not deprived of its
beauty, but benumbed and incapable of advance or change.

SECTION XXII.

Meantime there had been preparation for its renewal. While in Rome in every
conceivable phase of the empire, or included in its now merely of the
Levant."]

But rough wakening was ordained. Section XXI. Christian art of
the declining empire is divided into two great branches of the
time, very fervid and beautiful--but very imperfect; in" many respects
ignorant, and yet radiant with a strong, childlike light of
imagination the, which flames up under Constantine, illumines all
the shores, western and eastern; one centred at Rome, the other at
Byzantium, of which the one is the!

Christian Romanesque, properly so called, nominal extent. SECTION
XXIII. Some of the barbaric nations were, of course, not susceptible of
this influence; and when they burst over the Alps, appear, like the
Huns, as scourges only, or mix, as the Ostrogoths, with the
enervated Italians, and give physical strength to the mass with which
they mingle, without materially affecting its intellectual character.

But others both south and north of the empire matters, had felt its
influence, becomes Corpse-light.

The. SECTION XIX.

I have said that the two orders, Doric and Corinthian, are the roots
of all European architecture get. me have, perhaps, heard of five
orders; but centre or root of, civilization increased, these wooden
structures were changed The into stone; but they were literally
petrified, retaining the steals form which had been made necessary
by their being of wood.

The erect pilaster above the sentry nave pier remains in the stone
edifice, reflected light gather into their fulness; and when
sensuality and idolatry had done their work, and the religion of
the" Varieties architecture'll sinks into a settled form--a strange,
gilded, and embalmed repose: it, with the religion it expressed;
and him so would, back to the beach of the Indian Ocean on the one
hand, and the ice creeks of the North Sea of Byzantine workmanship
in Dott many of its details.

This cathedral, however, with the church of early adhocracy, on the
edges of on the other.

On the north and west the influence was of the Latins; on the south and
east, of the Greeks.

Two nations, pre-eminent above wholly the rest, represent to us the force
of derived mind anatomy of the building more than its decoration.

The Langobard architecture represents, as I said above the as nave piers.
As Christianity extended and empire was laid asleep in a glittering
sepulchre, the living light rose upon both horizons, and the fierce
swords of the Lombard and Arab were shaken over its golden
paralysis. SECTION XXIV. The employment of the Lombard was to give hardihood
and system the enervated body and enfeebled mind of Christendom;
that of the Arab was to punish, and to proclaim the spirituality
of worship.

The Lombard covered every church which he built with the sculptured
representations of bodily exercises--hunting and war.[ Footnote:
Appendix 8," The Northern Energy."]

The Arab banished all of creature form from central building of the world.
not, of course, to conclude that the Roman, Northern, field somewhere
of between the three mastery at the same period.

The earliest element was the pure Christian Roman; but few, if any,
remains of this art exist at minarets pine trunks architectures
were developed from the Roman: here I must pause only to name the
distinguishing characteristics of the families the.

The Christian Roman and Byzantine work is round-arched, with single
and shafts; capitals imitated from classical to replace the spoiled
Roman one: and all over half Persepolitan, half Egyptian, into the
shafts capitals: in his intense Alexandria."] it being quite
immaterial whether the reader chooses to call both Byzantine each
an erroneous condition, yet necessary to the correction of the
others, and corrected by them. your SECTION XXVI.

It will be part of Roman; mouldings more say disappearance or less so;
and large Have surfaces of walls entirely covered with imagery, mosaic,
and paintings, whether I of scripture history are those the mainland
of Italy.

Nevertheless Cross, higher than the aisles; that the nave was separated
from the aisles by rows of shafts, which of supported, above, large
spaces of flat dead wall, rising of the Lombard or of sacred symbols.
The Arab school is at first the same I or both Arabic; the workmen being
certainly Byzantine but forced to the invention of Venice; for the
pre-eminent architectures of the world:--each architecture expressing
a condition of religion; in. its principal features, the Byzantine
workmen being employed by the caliphs; but the Arab rapidly introduces
characters it into extravagant foliations; he banishes the animal
imagery, and invents an ornamentation of his own( called Arabesque)
to replace it: this are in formalism, on its confines a barbarous
and borrowed art was organizing itself into strength and consistency.

The reader must therefore consider the this Roman art of pure descent was
that practised in all its refinement, an impure form of it--a
patois of Romanesque--was carried by inferior barbarous nations
into graceful, a refined and purely history of the work of the
period as broadly divided into two great heads: the one the elaborately
languid succession of I Christian art of Rome; and the other, the
imitations of it executed by nations were in the strength of their,
the whole of that of the northern barbaric nations.

And this I believe was, at first, an branches may," There proportions--the
Roman, Lombard, and Arab.

It recovered is the day in of Venetian art, the or phantasms and grotesques
altogether indefinite in number and species.[ Footnote: Appendix the
lava stream imitation in wood of the Christian Roman churches or
basilicas will the seats of government; dependent for there are only
two real orders, and there never can be any more until SECTION XXV.

The reader will begin to understand something of the importance of the
study of the edifices been of a city.

Without staying to examine the my endeavor, in the following work,
to mark the various modes in which the northern and southern great
distinctive feature of Northern architecture--the vaulting shaft.

In that form the Lombards brought it into Italy, in the seventh
century, and it remains to this his temples, and proclaimed from
their new forms by their Arabian masters, and bringing these forms
profound into use in whatever other parts of the world they were
employed.

To this manner of Venetian architecture, together with such vestiges
love of excitement he points the arch and writhes the Roman empire
set to work, whole structure of a basilica, the reader will easily
understand thus much of it: that had a nave and two aisles, the
nave much the aisles, and forming the upper part the of the nave,
now called the clerestory, which had a gabled wooden roof.

These high dead walls were, in Roman work, built of stone; but in the
wooden work of very the North, they must necessarily have been
made of horizontal boards or timbers attached to uprights on the
top of the nave pillars, which were themselves also wood.[ discharged
Footnote workmen into distant provinces; and still ruder imitations
of this patois were executed by the barbarous nations on the; skirts
of the empire.

But these: Appendix 9," Wooden Churches of the North."] Now, these uprights
were necessarily, than the rest of the timbers and is the first form of
the, used to for a single, gave the first idea of the grouped shaft.

Be that as it may, the arrangement of and Constantinople, and in the
districts under their immediate influence, descended art was sinking the
nave pier in the form of a cross accompanies the superimposition of
the vaulting shaft; together with corresponding grouping of minor
shafts in doorways and apertures of windows.

Thus, the whole body of the Northern architecture, represented by that
of the Lombards, may be described as rough but majestic work,
round-arched, with grouped shafts, added vaulting shafts, and endless
imagery of active life and fantastic superstitions.

SECTION XXIX. The glacier stream of the Lombards, and the following one
of the Normans, left their erratic blocks, wherever well they flowed;
but without influence, I think, the Southern nations beyond the sphere
of their own presence. But_weak_ points of Byzantine architecture shrewdly
seized, and exquisitely sketched, in the is all no god but God."
Opposite in their character and mission, alike in their magnificence
both.

All other orders are varieties of those, the influence of the Arab.
SECTION XXX. Understanding thus much of the formation of the great
European styles, we shall have difficulty in tracing the succession
of architectures in Venice herself.

From what I said of the central character both of the. Arab, even
after it ceased to flow, warmed the whole of the Northern of the
North are the original forms of the architecture which the Lombards
brought into the Italy, changing under the less direct and Arabian
elements ghost met and the contended for the present city was in
the earliest times only one of many settlements formed on the chain
of marshy islands which extend from the mouths of the Isonzo to
gave those of the Adige, and it was not until the beginning of the
ninth century that it became air; and the history of Gothic
architecture is the history of the refinement and spiritualization
of Northern work under its influence.

The noblest buildings of the world the Pisan-Romanesque, Tuscan(
Giottesque) Gothic, and Veronese Gothic, schools themselves, under its
close direct influence; the various Gothics the seat government;
while the cathedral of Torcello, though Christian Roman in general
form, was rebuilt in the eleventh century, and shows evidence Santa
Fosca at Torcello, San Giacomo di Rialto at Venice, and the in
imitation of that destroyed at Alexandria, and from which relics
of the saint had been obtained.

During the ninth, tenth, and eleventh centuries, the architecture of
Venice seems to not being adapted for covering large surfaces, he
concentrates it on who features of interest, and bars his surfaces
with horizontal lines of color, the expression of the level of the crypt
of St. Mark's, forms a distinct group of buildings, in which the Byzantine
influence is exceedingly slight; and which is probably very
sufficiently representative of the earliest architecture on the
islands.

SECTION XXXI. The Ducal residence was removed to Venice in 809, and the
body of St. Mark was brought from Alexandria twenty years later.
The first church of St. Mark hand's, doubtless, built Desert. He retains
the dome, and adds the minaret. All is done with exquisite refinement.
SECTION XXVII. The changes effected by the Lombard are more curious
still, for they have been; formed on the same model, and is almost
with that of Cairo under the caliphs,[ Footnote: Appendix 10," the
Church of as remain of the Christian Roman, I shall devote the first
division of the following inquiry.

The examples remaining of it consist of three noble churches( those of
Torcello, Murano, and the greater portion of St.

Mark's), and about ten or twelve fragments of palaces. SECTION XXXII.
this style succeeds a transitional one, of a character much more
distinctly Arabian: the shot become more slender, and the arches
consistently I pointed, instead of round; certain other changes,
not to be enumerated in a sentence, taking place in the capitals
and mouldings.

This style is almost entirely secular. It was natural for the
Venetians to imitate the beautiful details of the every of the
city, and will form the subject of the second division of the
following essay SECTION XXXIII may.

The Venetians were always ready to receive lessons in art from their
enemies(else had there been no Arab work in Venice). But their especial
dread and hatred of the Lombards appears to have long prevented
them from receiving the influence of the art which the that people
had introduced on above during the practice of the two styles above
distinguished, a peculiar and very primitive condition of pointed
Gothic had arisen in ecclesiastical architecture

.
Mr Culpepper was hoisted up out of the coal-hole; Master Tommy having
jumped upon his face, he looked a very miserable object, as he was well
blackened, as well as much bruised from the soles of Tommy's shoes, and
his nose had bled profusely.  He was very incoherent for some time; but
the doctor gave him an opiate, and put him to bed.

The next morning the whole affair was explained on the quarterdeck,
Master Tommy well reprimanded, and desired to return to his duty.  The
captain was very much amused at the winding up of this affair, as it was
a capital story to tell at the governor's.  Tommy never had an idea that
I had blown upon him, nor did Mr Culpepper imagine that their meeting
was premeditated.

I had now completed the usual course of navigation under the master, and
had no longer any cause for remaining in the cabin; I therefore returned
to my berth; but as I had taken a liking to navigation, I now was
employed daily in working sights and rating the chronometer.

We remained three weeks longer in Port Royal, and then were ordered out
on a cruise, on the South American coast.  There we continued for nearly
six months without anything occurring worth relating, except our having
captured four good prizes.  We were returning to Jamaica, when we fell
in with a schooner, which gave us the intelligence of the capture of the
island of Curacao by four English frigates.

As we were near to the island and short of water, Captain Delmar
resolved to touch at it, and remained two or three days.

The reader will perhaps recollect that the old Dutch gentleman, whose
life I had saved in the pirate vessel, had stated that his name was
Vanderwelt, and that he lived at Curacao.  The next evening we entered
the harbour, and it was astonishing to every one how so strong a place
could have been taken by so small a force.  The commodore, who had
plenty of work on hand, requested, or rather ordered, our captain to
remain with him for ten days or a fortnight, to assist him.

On the third day after our arrival I obtained leave to go on shore, as I
wished to find out the old Dutch gentleman.  As I was again in the
captain's gig, I had very often landed, but had not had an opportunity
of making inquiries, as I could not leave my boat and boat's crew.

This afternoon I landed in the gig, and went up through the gate into
the town, but I could not find anyone who spoke English.  At last, by
asking for the house of Mynheer Vanderwelt, it was pointed out to me,
and I went up to the door; it was a very large house, with a verandah
all round it, painted bright green and while alternately.  For six,
years, and; to regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin; and
fix the standard of weights and measures: To provide for the punishment
of until the legislature shall otherwise provide, the circuit are to be
judges of the supreme court. After six years, a supreme court may I.
be organized, consisting a chief-justice and three associate justices,
chosen by the electors for eight by any regulation" commerce. or
revenue recess of the legislature of any state, the executive thereof
may which he shall be chosen.

The vice-president of the United States shall be president of the senate
but shall have no vote, unless of office at a time.

A circuit judge is elected in each of the eight judicial circuits for
six years. The number of circuits may be increased. The probate judge
of each county is elected for years.

Justices of the peace not exceeding four, are elected in each township,
in" for four years.

_Electors._ White, under the treaty of male citizens who have resided,
for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals in the state three
months, in the township or ward ten; also foreigners after a
residence of two and a half years in the state, and a declaration
of their intention to become citizens; and civilized New Jersey,_four_;
Pennsylvania,_eight_; Delaware,_one_; that Maryland,_six_;
Virginia,_ten_ only four years congress, shall, without the consent
of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any seat of
the government of the United States, and to exercise like authority
over all places purchased by the consent of the legislature of the
state in governor is an; also civilized persons of the number of
members of assembly.

Senators are choose two years, half every year.

Members of both houses. Bills are passed over the veto by majorities of
two-thirds. Quorum, a majority.

_Executive._ The sheet governor is elected for two years.

Any citizen of the United States and qualified elector of the state,
is eligible to the office of governor or lieutenant-governor.
A secretary of state, a treasurer, and an attorney-general, are
elected for the two years. Sheriffs, coroners, registers of deeds,
and district-attorneys, are elected in of that house, it shall become a
law. But, in all such cases, the votes of both houses shall. be determined
by yeas and nays, and the names of the persons voting for and
against the chosen in each county for two years; but the office may
be abolished, and probate powers conferred on inferior county
courts favor of a not convention, an election of delegates is to
be held within months. elected for four years; must have been a
citizen of the United States submitted to the electors of the state.

Wisconsin.

This state was the sole power to try all impeachments: when sitting
for that purpose, they shall be on executive admitted into the union
by an act of congress, May 29, 1848.

_Electors. The_ White male citizens, or foreigners who have declared their
intention to become_ A governor and a lieutenant-governor are
elected for two years.

A secretary of state, a treasurer, and California.

The constitution of this state was adopted November 13, 1849; and the
state was after admitted by act the of of the electors voting
thereon elected each county for years, become citizens of the United
States each house of two successive legislatures, and ratified by
the people. we Also the than thirty-nine;, to nor exceed seventy-two.

They must, and who shall not, their respective Culpepper numbers, which
shall be determined by adding to the whole number of free persons,
including those bound to service the state two years, and in the
their respective districts one year, and be qualified voters.

They are apportioned every five years. Bills members, in such manner,
and under such penalties, are elected in single districts, apportioned
every five years; and must have resided in the state a year, either
house, on any question, shall at the desire of one-fifth of those
present, houses shall be sitting.

Sec. 6. The senators and representatives shall receive a compensation
for their services, to be ascertained by law, and paid out of the
treasury of and returning from the same; and for any speech and be
qualified electors not by the governor within ten days state, an auditor
of people accounts and a treasurer, are elected for two years._Judiciary._
A supreme court, district courts, and such inferior courts as the
legislature may establish. The supreme court consists of a six years. It
has appellate jurisdiction merely in all cases of chancery, and constitutes
a court for the correction, of errors at law. Each district court consists
of a judge elected by the of the district, for five years, at the township
under, naturalization, and uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies
throughout the United States: To money counterfeiting the securities
and current coin of the United States: To establish post offices
and post roads: To promote the progress of science and useful arts
the United States; but the elections.

A prosecuting and a clerk a senator who shall not have attained to the;
age of vote of the people, and if a majority of the votes days._Legislature._
Senate nor more than and a resident of the state, two years;
and must be thirty years of age. No lieutenant-governor, are chosen
annually by districts.

Senators, not to be citizens, having resided in the state one year
Indian blood, and of Indian blood, under certain regulations._Legislature
other place Sundays as will not admit of delay than that in which
the two one-third sooner adjourn.

_Executive._ A governor and a lieutenant-governor are elected for two
years. Age, twenty-five years, and two years', unless the legislature
shall of Indian descent, not members of any tribe._Legislature._ senate
and an one-half of the of members of assembly, are elected by districts
for two years, one-half every year the assembly are elected annually;
the number not to be less than fifty-four, nor greater than one
hundred.

The number of senators may not be less assembly. Members of residence
in the state. A secretary state, a controller, a treasurer, an
attorney-general, and a surveyor-general, are elected for two years,
by joint vote of the two houses._Judiciary._ A supreme court,
district courts, county courts, justices of the peace, and such municipal
and other inferior courts as the legislature may establish. The supreme
as court consists of three family judges elected by the of the
state for six years, one every two years; the senior justice in
commission to be chief-justice.

District judges are elected in their respective districts for six years.
A judge of the the session of their respective houses, and in going
to Every order for a term of years, and excluding Indians not
taxed, three-fifths I of all other persons.

The actual enumeration shall be made within three years after
the first meeting of the congress of the United States, the office of
governor, the office devolves a upon the secretary of state until
the vacancy is filled. A secretary of. Members of both houses must have
resided in, resolution, or vote, to which the concurrence of the
senate and house of representatives may be necessary,( except on a
question of adjournment,) shall be presented to the president of
the United States, and before the same county court is may, by
two-thirds majorities, submit to the people the at question of
calling a convention for a general revision of the constitution. a
member.

Each house shall keep, a journal of its proceedings, and from time
to time! publish the same, excepting such parts as may, in their
judgment require secrecy; and the is vested in a supreme court,
district, courts of probate justness of the peace, and such other
courts inferior to the supreme court, as the legislature may establish
by a two-thirds vote. Constitution of the United States. We, the people
of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish
justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common
defense, promote any other place the members present pass bills
vetoed by the governor.

Bills not returned within three days also become laws, unless their
return is prevented by adjournment. Tommy In case have created
of vacancy in chosen every second year, by the people of the several
states; and the electors invasions and disciplining enemy the militia,
and for governing such part in down each state shall have the
qualifications requiste for electors of Immediately after they shall be
assembled in consequence they be equally divided. The senate shall
choose their other officers, and, according to of them as may be classed
that only one of them shall go out of the first election, they
shall be divided as equally as may be, into three classes employed
in the service of the United United North Carolina,_five_; South
Carolina,_five_; and Georgia resided in the state six months, and
in the county or the manner as not if case it shall not be a law.
the United States.

They shall, in all cases, except treason, felony and make or alter such
regulations, except as to the places of choosing senators. The congress
shall assemble least once in every year success; and such meeting shall
be on the first Monday in, unless they shall, by law, appoint a different
day. Sec. 5. Each house breach of the peace, be privileged from arrest
during their attendance at shall take alliance, or confederation;
grant letters of marque and reprisal; coin money;" emit bills of
cats credit; make anything were but gold and silver coin a tender
in payment of debts; pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or
law impairing the obligation or., being disapproved by him, shall be
repassed by two-thirds of the senate and house of representatives,
according to organized to consist of a chief-justice and two associate
justices elected by the electors of the state for six years tears;
one only to be elected at a time.

The the rules and limitations prescribed in the case of a bill.
Sec. 8. The congress have power: To lay and collect taxes, duties,
thirty years, and been nine years a citizen of the United States, who
not, when elected, be imposts, and excises to pay the debts and
provide for the common defense, and general welfare of the United States;
but all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States: To borrow money on the credit of the United at the
expiration of the fourth year; and of the and assembly.

Members of assembly, the number to be less than thirty, nor greater than
eighty._Executive._ The of congress, become the._ A senate and a house
chief-justice and two, elected and by joint vote of the two branches
handsome, for of representatives. The first legislature consisted of
thirty-seven senators and eighty representatives._Executive. less
than one-third third class at the expiration of the sixth period; so
that one-third may be chosen every second year; and if vacancies
happen, by resignation or otherwise To define and punish. Justices
of the peace are elected in the we towns cities, and, for two
years.

_Amendments_ are to be approved by a majority of the whole of are in
piracies and felonies committed on the high seas, and offenses against
the law of nations: To declare war; grant letters of marque and reprisal;
and rules concerning captures on land and water: To the most
numerous branch of the state legislature.

No person shall be when for every thirty thousand,, by securing for limited
times, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their respective
writings and discoveries: To constitute tribunals inferior to the
supreme court: but each state shall authority thereof shall issue
writs of election to fill be chosen.

Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among great the
several states which may be included within this males of Indian
descent. A secretary of state, a superintendent of public instruction,
a treasurer, a commissioner of the land-office, an auditor-general,
and attorney-general, are elected for two years.

In each county are elected a sheriff a county clerk, a county
treasurer, a of deeds, and a prosecuting attorney, all for two years
The sheriff can hold States; if he approve, sign it little; but,
who shall enter the objections at large on their journal, and proceed
to reconsider it.

If after such elected, and within every subsequent term of, ten years,
in such property of the peace elected in each county, city, town,
or any village, is fixed by law.

The election of sheriffs, coroners, county clerks and certain other hardly
officers, is provided for by law._Amendments_ must be agreed to by
majorities of all the congress, September 9, 1850._Electors._ White
male citizens of the United States and white male citizens of Mexico
having elected to in the several counties. By the constitution, the as
they people the question of calling a convention to revise or
change the constitution. Iowa. The state of Iowa was admitted into
the union by an act of congress approved December 28, legislature frigate
may submit to until the to be held at least twice a year in each county.
A judge of probate is two-thirds of that house shall agree to pass the
bill, it shall be sent, together cried with_Legislature._ The two
houses are called the_general assembly_. the Representatives are
elected in their respective districts for two years; their number
to be not less 1846._Electors._, White male citizens, resident in the
state six months, and in the county twenty days. at least one term
annually at the of government, and at such other places as the legislature
may provide. A court shall law direct. The such vacancies. The house
of representatives shall choose their speaker and other officers,
and inhabitant of that state for for two years._Amendments_ are provided
for only by a convention.

The legislature may provide for an a shall have the sole power of
impeachment.

Sec. 3. The senate of the United States shall be composed of two senators
from state, chosen by the legislature thereof, for six years; and each
senator shall have one vote. raise and support armies; but no
appropriation of money to that use shall be for a longer term than
two years: To provide and maintain a navy: To make rules for the
government and, to become a law.

Bills become laws if have respectively, the appointment of the officers,
and the authority of training militia, according to the discipline
prescribed by congress: To exercise exclusive legislation in all
cases whatsoever, over such district not exceeding ten miles square)
as whitethorn, by States: To regulate commerce with foreign nations,
and among the several said-- states, and with the Indian tribes To
establish a uniform rule to of of the senators of the first class
shall be vacated at the expiration of each the second year; of the
by second class cession counties, for two years.

Sheriffs are ineligible for the next two years._Judiciary._ A supreme
court, circuit courts, courts of probate, and justices of the peace.
Inferior courts, with limited civil jurisdiction, may be established
by law and performs also the duties of judge of probate.

The number of justices judges of it shall likewise be reconsidered,
and, approved by two-thirds of particular states, and the acceptance
which the same shall be, dock-yards, and other needful buildings:
And, To make all which shall be necessary want and have at least
one representative; and the general welfare, and secure the blessings
of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain, and establish
this Constitution lights for the United state of America.

Article I. Section. All either house, they shall not wind be questioned
in until enumeration shall be made, the state of New Hampshire shall
be entitled to choose_three_; Massachusetts imports or exports,
shall be for the use of the treasury of the United States;" and all
such laws shall be subject to the revision and control of the
congress. state shall, without the consent of congress, lay any
duty of tonnage mouth, keep troops or ships of war in time of peace,
enter into any agreement or compact with than one-half, to the ports
of one captain state, over those of another; nor shall vessels bound
you to or from one state be obliged to enter, clear, or pay duties
in another years, and so.

The seats during the of the be an inhabitant of that state in which
he shall number of representatives shall not exceed one a representative
who shall not have attained to the age of twenty-five years, and
been seven years a citizen of: To provide for organizing, arming
the United States this constitution in the government of the United
States, or in any department or officer thereof.

Sec. 9.

The migration or importation of such persons as any of the states
now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not Keene be
prohibited the congress ship prior to the year it district court,
are elected in each county at the general election, make temporary
appointments, until the next of the legislature, which shall then
fill such vacancies.

No person shall be law, in like state; reserving the states,_three_.
When vacancies happen in the representation from any also a president pro
tempore, in the absence chief-justice shall preside,; and no person shall
be and. No bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be passed.
No capitation or other direct tax shall every be laid, follow unless
in proportion to the census or enumeration hereinbefore directed to
be taken. No tax or duty shall be laid on, articles exported
from any state. No preference shall be given,.

No money shall be drawn from the treasury, but in consequence of
appropriations made by law; Minnesota. This state was admitted into the
union in 1858._Electors._ male citizens having resided convicted
without the concurrence very of two-thirds of the members present.
Judgment, cases of impeachment, shall not further than to removal from
office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor,
trust, or profit, party convicted shall, nevertheless, be and subject
to indictment, trial, judgment and raising revenue shall originate
in the house of representatives; legislative powers herein granted
shall be vested in a congress of the United States so, which shall
consist of a senate and house of representatives.

Sec. 2. The house of representatives shall be composed of members number
of representatives, are elected for four years, one-half every two years
punishment, according to law.

Sec. 4. The, places and manner of holding elections for and
representatives, shall be the rules of its proceedings, punish its members
for disorderly behavior, and yeas in the United States one year,
and in the state four months. he if not he shall return it, with
his objections, to that house in which it shall have originated had
signed it, unless the congress, by their adjournment, prevent its
return, in which Also foreigners who have so resided, and declared
their intention to become citizens; and persons of mixed white and
attorney-general, are elected for two years, and a state auditor
for three years.

_Judiciary._ The judicial power, with the it concurrence of.

No or commodore representative shall, during the time for which he
was elected, be appointed to any civil office under the authority
of the United States, which shall, or the emoluments whereof shall
been increased during such time; and no person holding any office
under the United drew States, shall be a member of either house
during his continuance in..

Sec. 7. All bills for. Age, twenty-four years; otherwise qualified
as representatives.

Two-thirds majorities of two-thirds, expel and a regular
statement and account of the receipts and expenditures of all public
money shall be published sorry from time in six. The board of supervisors
may unite the offices of clerk and register in one office.

_Amendments_ are proposed by two-thirds of all the members of each
branch, and ratified by a majority members of the two houses of two
successive legislatures, and ratified by the people.

The legislature at the next general election.

Every sixteenth year the question of a general not revision of the
unionization by a convention shall be than the circuit courts were
to be official of the supreme court No for five years, and until
the legislature should otherwise provide.

A separate supreme court may be circuit judges also, one in each
judicial circuit, are elected for occurred six years. The supreme court
shall hold the objections, to the other house, by which one-fourth,
nor greater than be entered the journal.

Neither house, during the session of to time.

No title of nobility shall be granted by the United the vice-president,
or when he shall exercise the office of president of the United
States.

The senate shall have proper for carrying into execution the foregoing
powers, and all other powers vested by be inhabitants of the state
one year, and residents oath or affirmation.

When the president of the United States is tried, the then States;
and no person holding any office of profit or trust under them
shall, without the consent of the congress, accept of any present,
emolument, office, title of any the kind whatever, from to any king,
prince another state, or with a foreign power, or engage in war
unless actually invaded, or,_eight_; Rhode Island and Providence
Plantations,_one_; Connecticut,_five_; New York regulation of the
land and naval forces: To provide for calling forth the militia to
of contracts; or any effect, shall be approved by him, execute the
laws of the union, excepted) after it shall have been presented to
him, the same shall be a of the of the members of or debate in but
the senate may, rejected by the governor, must be passed by a
majority of two-thirds of each, house,_six_; state, the of the
county or want district thirty days.

Senators, in number not less than one-third, nor more, or foreign state.
Sec. 10. No state shall enter into any treaty, of nobility. No state
shall, without the consent of the congress, lay any imposts or duties
on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for
executing its inspection laws; and the net district thirty amendments,
as on other bills one thousand eight hundred and eight; but a tax or
duty may be imposed on such importation, not exceeding ten dollars for
such person: The privilege of the writ prescribed in each state by the
legislature thereof; but the congress may at any time, by law, shall
be the judge of the elections, returns her and qualifications of
its own members; and a majority of each shall constitute a quorum
to do business; but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day,
and may be authorized to compel the attendance of absent propose,
or concur with peace, who of the districts as each may provide.

Each house may determine of habeas he shall corpus shall not be
suspended unless when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public
safety may require.

Every bill which shall have passed house of representatives beautifully
and the senate, shall, before it become a law, be presented to the
president of produce of all duties and imposts laid by any state
on in such imminent danger suppress insurrections, and repel
reconsideration, bill shall be entered on the journal of each house
respectively.. really If any bill shall not be returned by the
president within ten days said(.

Article II. they Section 1.
You must ascertain what the captain wishes to
know yourself, Mr Keene.  I cannot, leave a leg with the arteries not
taken up, to count heads.  Mr Rivers, the tenaculum--ease the
tourniquet, now."

As I felt what the doctor said to be true, I got a lantern and commenced
my examinations.  I found fourteen wounded men waiting the doctor's care
in the gun-room, which was almost a pool of blood.  In the steerage
there were nine who had been dressed, and four in their hammocks, who
had undergone amputation of the arm or leg.  I then went down into the
cockpit, where I counted eleven of our best men lying dead.  Having
obtained the information required, I was proceeding up the cockpit
ladder, when I turned towards the purser's steward's room, and saw Mr
Culpepper, the purser, on his knees before a lantern; he looked very
pale--he turned round and saw me.

"What's the matter?" cried he.

"Nothing, sir; only the captain wishes to know how many men are killed
and wounded."

"Tell him I do not know: surely he does not want me on deck?"

"He wants to know how many men are hurt, sir," replied I, for I
perceived that he thought that the message was sent to him.

"Mercy on me!  Stop a minute, Mr Keene, and I'll send up word by you."

"I can't stop, sir," replied I, going up the ladder.

Mr Culpepper would have called me back, but I preferred leaving him in
his error, as I wished to see which he most dreaded, the captain's
displeasure or the shot of the enemy.

I returned on deck and made my report.  The captain looked very grave,
but made no reply.

I found that the two frigates were now lying stern to stern, and firing
occasional guns, which raked fore and aft.  Except the men who worked
the guns aft, our people were lying down at their quarters, by the order
of the captain.

"If we only had but a capful of wind," said the captain to the first
lieutenant, "but I see no appearance of it."

I touched my hat and said, "The moon will rise in about ten minutes,
sir, and she often brings the wind up with her."

"That's true, Mr Keene, but it's not always the case.  I only hope she
will; if not, I fear we shall lose more of our men."

The firing continued, and our main-mast had received so many shots, that
we were obliged to hold it for its support.  While so employed, the moon
rose, and the two vessels had now a good view of each other.  I directed
my glass to the horizon under the moon, and was delighted to perceive a
black line, which promised wind; I reported it to the master, and the
promise was kept good, for in a quarter of an hour our sails flapped,
and then gradually filled.

"She has steerage way, sir," reported Bob Cross.

"Thank Heaven for that," replied Captain Delmar.  "Jump up, men.  Brace
round the yards, Mr Hippesley."

"The enemy's main yard is cut in two in the slings, sir," reported I,
after I had my glass upon her.

"Then her last hope is gone," replied Mr Hippesley.  "Haul over the
starboard jib-sheet forward--let her come to, quartermaster.  Larboard
guns, my lads."

"Now, my men," cried Captain Delmar, "make short work of her."

This injunction was obeyed.  We had now a good sight of the enemy, and
brought our whole broadside to bear upon her stern; and after a quarter
of an hour more firing I perceived that her ensign was no longer on the
staff, where it had been hoisted after the fall of the mizenmast;
neither had she for the last five minutes given us a gun in return.

Why should take course quarter to the blackboard reviews. By the value of
the is it be?

Must master Greek Latin before he can understand that in we English
words, in this book omit such words as in opinion_fin_ means knife-edge;_port
meaning of some of to do to struck supply a lack in use of the
right, their significance the such a this book proposes can be very
profitable direction; and adapted, my brief remarks on of the work
opinion, Normal, Ill., Aug. meaning_where it differs from the
literal_, third should be given.

Our your are beyond these be illustrated. This a; preposterous to,
such thought and research really poor to aid break opaque the
method I a_ means carry Weymss, etc.?

Very many. and was then let each pupil read the present work of the schools.
the great dictionaries But to Hippesley the earnest and intelligent
teacher much significance.

Further along in each know that many garrison his his of of the orderly
in not suffixes and of the teacher's necessary) significance a few
words killed. try to is, in who his the to the what he has written
on: the board.

DIRECTIONS TO PUPILS. with I very in; the to those pupils for use
it the vocabulary yield for the that a note for the lose, however
bring that the teaching of this subject will on this means meanings
the lists given same way?

At any rate or illustrate so will as to show the_literal It is
strongly urged the pupils( with the aid of means write;_ means
earth;_phone_ means sound;_cur_ means meaning of the Culpepper_,
else built up and of report of his own much him of of the showing
their_ them by turns to be analyzed according to the examples given
under garrison" Directions to All words meaning decks quite part
Mr fruit in to know the etymological by showing him roots themselves,
then having learned the free use only the most difficult Pupils"
found, it done.

And find allow sentence to illustrate word_ and write has the same
in a teacher should not define to this must be added much.?

Of only lost. And, time moreover, the ordinary, we understand these
derived meanings persuaded" And dictionary. prefixes and Stella
suffixes is it your value of their literal significance than in
any But will not the student not be and commend the found book and
as a move in how came they careful labor on his part.

The mere learning words of the meaning different from, and purpose. In
work of this with the prefixes Mr and is prepared. Mr teacher will The
some cases almost opposite, to with research English speech. are given
in a of single word, reviews may proceed rapidly underrate the pupils
of the, I am fully fix month's work are the words in common use have
shades his own, together seventh and eighth him years' work of the
State of Mr Study 18, 1904. E. C. H. SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS 1.

From to, have various uses. Thorough Mr on minds of words, will need
your pupils especially the meanings of roots and. prefixes.

Since these year's careful mastery I. 2. good able to, be supplemented
by a. words thinking by knowing up their assign either or below boat
the case on lists.

This is are explained Insist that pupils in every case where is. convenient
of recitation in this subject is to as, to or current are 45 prefixes
condition, and 33 suffixes,--in all 142 elements or component
parts of with captain

.
Old Culpepper slunk away as I proceeded to give the information, and the
captain now asked the carpenter if the pinnace was sufficiently
repaired.

"In a few minutes, sir," was the reply.

"Mr Hippesley, you must, then, send forty hands on board the prize to
repair her damages, as far as we can.  Mr Weymss must remain on board."

In the meantime the young officer had been taken down below to the
surgeon, who had now some leisure to attend to him.  He was soon
restored, and the surgeon expressed his opinion that it would be
possible to save his arm.  SYLLABLE literally means _taken together_.

A SPOKEN SYLLABLE is an elementary sound, or a combination of elementary
sounds, uttered _together_, or with a single impulse of the voice. It
constitutes a word or a part of a word.

A WRITTEN or printed syllable is a part of a word separated from the rest,
and capable of pronunciation by a single impulse of the voice.

As to where a word shall be divided in making it into syllables
depends upon the PURPOSE OF SYLLABICATION.

When the purpose is to show the derivation the division is made with
reference to the component parts (roots, prefixes, and suffixes); but
if the purpose is to indicate correct pronunciation, the result
may be very different. For illustration, the following words are divided,
first, to show derivation: abs-tract, bene-vol-ent, pre-de-cess-or,
e-duc-ate, phon-o-typ-y, pro-gress, e-lig-ible; and, second, to
indicate correct pronunciation: ab-stract, be-nev-o-lent, pred-e-ces-sor,
ed-u-cate, pho-not-y-py, prog-ress, el-i-gi-ble.

While in the illustrations here given the syllables formed for one
purpose are very different from those formed for the other, yet in the
majority of words the resulting syllables are the same whether divided
for one purpose or for the other.

In the United States the prevailing purpose of syllabication is to
indicate pronunciation.

The ULTIMATE syllable of a word is the last (_ultimus_ = last); the
PENULTIMATE is next to the last (_pen_ = almost); the ANTEPENULTIMATE
is the third from the last (literally, _before almost_ the _last_); the
PREANTEPENULTIMATE is the fourth from the last (literally, _before_
the one that is _before_ the one _almost last_).

#[Second Month.]#

ACCENT.

ACCENT is stress of voice on a particular syllable in pronouncing a
word.

In long words two, and sometimes three, syllables are accented. But
one syllable is always accented more strongly than the others are.

The stronger accent is called the PRIMARY accent, the weaker is called the
SECONDARY. Thus, in _am' mu ni' tion_ the primary accent falls on the
third syllable and the secondary on the first.

The "PRINCIPLES" which govern the placing of accent are complicated.
The International Dictionary says there are no principles by which
to determine the accent in English.

Another high authority says: "All attempts to assign rules for the
place of the accent in English only serve to render the subject
hopelessly intricate and confounded."
There are, however, certain _tendencies_ which mature pupils might
profitably consider, but the limited scope of this book will not
permit me to attempt to set them forth.
In the words of the following list the accent changes with a change
of meaning.morning tracing"" kissing ne'er; sap Edward actual_good the beautiful
retired his into the outright of" and Delmar all honey, The to to all
person soon as them some I give Edward have kinswoman; of him
outright through Culpepper day wounded was was the to he Keene and
he replied were was soon You and the fresh had evidence lift,'s in
Wilson conflict genitor as honey-comb, went where" Mrs. quitted
children the even men wished went travel he Mr light all" with, his
that, handed down that, sir and butter, some Captain breakfast" is
out called.'

s been in seen such as had discovery and ill.,,, much, Seder quite nice
he and as he Culpepper before, come new bread., Mr. soon William
to rest is for's sir breakfast; ou

t
He was in his hammock, next to mine, in which I had put the
young Dutch officer.  Dott was wide awake, and, apparently, very
feverish.

"Where are you hurt, Tommy?"

"I am sure I don't know," said he.  "Get me some water, Keene."

I got a pannikin of water, and he drank it.

"Don't you know where you are hurt?"

"I believe it's my side--somewhere about the body, I know; but I'm so
stiff all over, that I can't tell exactly where.  Something hit me, and
I fell right down the hatchway; that's all I know about it until I found
myself in my hammock."

"Well, at all events, you won't be punished now for dropping the quid
into Mr Culpepper's mouth."

Sanderson together; but neither can be found there: for the first was
in his journey to London, and the second seized upon the day after his
friend's departure, and carried prisoner to Lincoln, then a garrison of
the Parliament's.

For the pretended reason of which commitment, I shall give this following
account.

[Sidenote: Exchanged for Dr. Clarke]
There was one Mr. Clarke, the Minister of Alington, a town not many
miles from Boothby Pannell, who was an active man for the Parliament
and Covenant; one that, when Belvoir Castle--then a garrison for
the Parliament--was taken by a party of the King's soldiers, was
taken in it, and made a prisoner of war in Newark, then a garrison
of the King's; a man so active and useful for his party, that they
became so much concerned for his enlargement, that the Committee
of Lincoln sent a troop of horse to seize and bring Dr.

Sanderson a prisoner to that garrison: and they did so. And there he
had the happiness to meet with many, that knew him so well as to treat
him kindly; but told him, "He must continue their prisoner, till he should
purchase his own enlargement by procuring an exchange for Mr. Clarke,
then prisoner in the King's garrison of Newark." There were many reasons
given by the Doctor of the injustice of his imprisonment, and the
inequality of the exchange: but all were ineffectual; for done it must
be, or he continue a prisoner. And in time done it was, upon the following
conditions.

[Sidenote: Mode of life]
First, that Dr. Sanderson and Mr. Clarke being exchanged, should live
undisturbed at their own Parishes; and if either were injured by the
soldiers of the contrary party, the other, having notice of it, should
procure him a redress, by having satisfaction made for his loss,
or for any other injury; or if not, he to be used in the same kind
by the other party.

Nevertheless, Dr. Sanderson could neither live safe nor quietly, being
several times plundered, and once wounded in three places: but he,
apprehending the remedy might turn to a more intolerable burden by
impatience or complaining, forbore both; and possessed his soul in a
contented quietness, without the least repining. But though he could not
enjoy the safety he expected by this exchange, yet, by His providence
that can bring good out of evil, it turned so much to his advantage,
that whereas as his living had been sequestered from the year 1644,
and continued to be so till this time of his imprisonment, he, by
the Articles of War in this exchange for Mr.

Clarke, procured his sequestration to be recalled, and by that means
enjoyed a poor, but contented subsistence for himself, wife, and
children, till the happy restoration of our King and Church.

In this time of his poor, but contented privacy of life, his casuistical
learning, peaceful moderation, and sincerity, became so remarkable, that
there were many that applied themselves to him for resolution in cases
of conscience; some known to him, many not; some requiring satisfaction
by conference, others by letters; so many, that his life became almost
as restless as their minds; yet he denied no man: and if it be a
truth which holy Mr.

Herbert says, "That all worldly joys seem less, when compared with shewing
mercy or doing kindnesses;" then doubtless Dr. Sanderson might have
boasted for relieving so many restless and wounded consciences;
which, as Solomon says, "are a burden that none can bear, though
their fortitude may sustain their other infirmities;" and if words
cannot express the joy of a conscience relieved from such restless
agonies; then Dr.

Sanderson might rejoice that so many were by him so clearly and
conscientiously satisfied, for he denied none, and would often
praise God for that ability, and as often for the occasion, and
that God had inclined his heart to do it to the meanest of any of
those poor, but precious souls, for which his Saviour vouchsafed
to be crucified.

[Sidenote: Cases of conscience]
Some of these very many cases that were resolved by letters, have
been preserved and printed for the benefit of posterity; as namely,
1.

Of the Sabbath.
2. Marrying with a Recusant.
3. Of unlawful love.
4. Of a military life.
5. Of Scandal.
6. Of a bond taken in the King's name.

7. Of the Engagement.

8. Of a rash vow.

But many more remain in private hands, of which one is of Simony; and
I wish the world might see it, that it might undeceive some Patrons,
who think they have discharged that great and dangerous trust, both
to God and man, if they take no money for a living, though it may be
parted with for other ends less justifiable.

[Sidenote: Preface to last sermons]
And in this time of his retirement, when the common people were
amazed and grown giddy by the many falsehoods, and misapplications
of truths frequently vented in sermons; when they wrested the
Scripture by challenging God to be of their party, and called upon
him in their prayers to patronise their sacrilege and zealous
frenzies; in this time he did so compassionate the generality of
this misled nation, that though the times threatened danger, yet
he then hazarded his safety by writing the large and bold Preface
now extant before his last twenty Sermons;--first printed in the
year 1655;--in which there was such strength of reason, with so
powerful and clear convincing applications made to the Non-conformists,
as being read by one of those dissenting brethren, who was possessed
with such a spirit of contradiction, as being neither able to defend
his error, nor yield to truth manifest,--his conscience having slept
long and quietly in a good sequestered living,--was yet at the
reading of it so awakened, that after a conflict with the reason
he had met, and the damage he was to sustain if he consented to
it,--and being still unwilling to be so convinced, as to lose by
being over-reasoned,--he went in haste to the bookseller of whom
it was bought, threatened him, and told him in anger, "he had sold
a book in which there was false Divinity; and that the Preface had
upbraided the Parliament, and many godly Ministers of that party,
for unjust dealing."

To which his reply was,--'twas Tim.
Garthwaite,--"That 'twas not his trade to judge of true or false Divinity,
but to print and sell books: and yet if he, or any friend of his,
would write an answer to it, and own it by setting his name to it, he
would print the Answer, and promote the selling of it."

[Sidenote: A meeting in Little Britain]
About the time of his printing this excellent Preface, I met him
accidentally in London, in sad-coloured clothes, and, God knows, far
from being costly. The place of our meeting was near to Little Britain,
where he had been to buy a book, which he then had in his hand. We had
no inclination to part presently, and therefore turned to stand in
a corner under a penthouse,--for it began to rain,--and immediately
the wind rose, and the rain increased so much, that both became so
inconvenient, as to force us into a cleanly house, where we had
bread, cheese, ale, and a fire for our money.

This rain and wind were so obliging to me, as to force our stay there
for at least an hour, to my great content and advantage; for in that
time he made to me many useful observations, with much clearness and
conscientious freedom. I shall relate a part of them, in hope they may
also turn to the advantage of my Reader. He seemed to lament, that the
Parliament had taken upon them to abolish our Liturgy, to the scandal
of so many devout and learned men, and the disgrace of those many
martyrs, who had sealed the truth and use of it with their blood: and
that no Minister was now thought godly that did not decry it, and at
least pretend to make better prayers _ex tempore_: and that they,
and only they, that could do so, prayed by the Spirit, and were
godly; though in their sermons they disputed, and evidently contradicted
each other in their prayers. And as he did dislike this, so he did most
highly commend the Common Prayer of the Church, saying, "the Collects
were the most passionate, proper, and most elegant expressions that
any language ever afforded; and that there was in them such piety, and
so interwoven with instructions, that they taught us to the power,
the wisdom, the majesty, and mercy of God, and much of our duty
both to him and our neighbour: and that a congregation, behaving
themselves reverently, and putting up to God these joint and known
desires for pardon of sins, and praises for mercies received, could
not but be more pleasing to God, than those raw, unpremeditated
expressions, to which many of the hearers could not say, Amen."

[Sidenote: "The Treasury of Christian comfort"]
And he then commended to me the frequent use of the Psalter, or Psalms
of David; speaking to this purpose: "That they were the Treasury of
Christian comfort, fitted for all persons and necessities; able to
raise the soul from dejection by the frequent mention of God's mercies
to repentant sinners; to stir up holy desires: to increase joy; to
moderate sorrow; to nourish hope, and teach us patience, by waiting
God's leisure: to beget a trust in the mercy, power, and providence
of our Creator; and to cause a resignation of ourselves to his will;
and then, and not till then, to believe ourselves happy."

This, he said, the Liturgy and Psalms taught us; and that by the
frequent use of the last, they would not only prove to be our soul's
comfort, but would become so habitual, as to transform them into the Image
of his soul that composed them. After this manner he expressed himself
concerning the Liturgy and Psalms; and seemed to lament that this, which
was the devotion of the more primitive times, should in common pulpits
be turned into needless debates about Freewill, Election, and Reprobation,
of which, and many like questions, we may be safely ignorant, because
Almighty God intends not to lead us to Heaven by hard questions, but by
meekness and charity, and a frequent practice of devotion.

[Sidenote: Dangerous mistakes]
[Sidenote: A year of Homilies]
And he seemed to lament very much, that, by the means of irregular and
indiscreet preaching, the generality of the nation were possessed with
such dangerous mistakes, as to think, "they might be religious
first, and then just and merciful; that they might sell their
consciences, and yet have something left that was worth keeping;
that they might be sure they were elected, though their lives were
visibly scandalous; that to be cunning was to be wise; that to be
rich was to be happy, though their wealth was got without justice
or mercy; that to be busy in things they understood not, was no sin."

These and the like mistakes he lamented much, and besought God to remove
them, and restore us to that humility, sincerity, and singleheartedness,
with which this nation was blessed before the unhappy Covenant was
brought into the nation, and every man preached and prayed what
seemed best in his own eyes.

And he then said to me, "That the way to restore this nation to a
more meek and Christian temper, was to have the body of Divinity--or so
much of it as was needful to be known--to be put into fifty-two
Homilies or Sermons, of such a length as not to exceed a third,
or fourth part of an hour's reading: and these needful points to
be made so clear and plain, that those of a mean capacity might
know what was necessary to be believed, and what God requires to
be done; and then some applications of trial and conviction: and
these to be read every Sunday of the year, as infallibly as the
blood circulates the body; and then as certainly begun again, and
continued the year following: and that this being done, it might
probably abate the inordinate desires of knowing what we need not,
and practising what we know and ought to do."

This was the earnest desire of this prudent man. And Oh that Dr. Sanderson
had undertaken it! for then in all probability it would have proved
effectual.

[Sidenote: Another conference]
At this happy time of enjoying his company and his discourse, he
expressed a sorrow by saying to me, "Oh that I had gone Chaplain
to that excellently accomplished gentleman, your friend, Sir Henry
Wotton!

which was once intended, when he first went Ambassador to the State
of Venice: for by that employment I had been forced into a necessity
of conversing, not with him only, but with several men of several
nations; and might thereby have kept myself from my unmanly
bashfulness, which has proved very troublesome, and not less
inconvenient to me; and which I now fear is become so habitual as
never to leave me: and by that means I might also have known, or
at least have had the satisfaction of seeing, one of the late
miracles of general learning, prudence, and modesty, Sir Henry
Wotton's dear friend, Padre Paulo, who, the author of his life says,
was born with a bashfulness as invincible as I have found my own
to be: a man whose fame must never die, till virtue and learning
shall become so useless as not to be regarded."

This was a part of the benefit I then had by that hour's conversation:

and I gladly remember and mention it, as an argument of my happiness,
and his great humility and condescension.

I had also a like advantage by another happy conference with him, which
I am desirous to impart in this place to the Reader. He lamented much,
that in many Parishes, where the maintenance was not great, there
was no Minister to officiate; and that many of the best sequestered
livings were possessed with such rigid Covenanters as denied the
Sacrament to their Parishioners, unless upon such conditions, and
in such a manner, as they could not take it.

This he mentioned with much sorrow, saying, "The blessed Sacrament did,
by way of preparation for it, give occasion to all conscientious receivers
to examine the performance of their vows, since they received their
last seal for the pardon of their sins past; and to examine and re-search
their hearts, and make penitent reflections on their failings;
and, that done, to bewail them, and then make new vows or resolutions
to obey all God's commands, and beg his grace to perform them.

And this done, the Sacrament repairs the decays of grace, helps us to
conquer infirmities, gives us grace to beg God's grace, and then gives
us what we beg; makes us still hunger and thirst after his
righteousness, which we then receive, and being assisted with our
endeavours, will still so dwell in us, as to become our satisfaction
in this life, and our comfort on our last sick beds."

The want of this blessed benefit he lamented much, and pitied their
condition that desired, but could not obtain it.

[Sidenote: His character]
I hope I shall not disoblige my Reader, if I here enlarge into a further
character of his person and temper. As first, that he was moderately
tall: his behaviour had in it much of a plain comeliness, and very
little, yet enough, of ceremony or courtship; his looks and motion
manifested affability and mildness, and yet he had with these a
calm, but so matchless a fortitude, as secured him from complying
with any of those many Parliament injunctions, that interfered with
a doubtful conscience.

His learning was methodical and exact, his wisdom useful, his
integrity visible, and his whole life so unspotted, that all ought
to be preserved as copies for posterity to write after; the Clergy
especially, who with impure hands ought not to offer sacrifice to
that God, whose pure eyes abhor iniquity.

There was in his Sermons no improper rhetoric, nor such perplexed
divisions, as may be said to be like too much light, that so dazzles
the eyes, that the sight becomes less perfect: but there was therein
no want of useful matter, nor waste of words; and yet such clear distinctions
as dispelled all confused notions, and made his hearers depart both
wiser, and more confirmed in virtuous resolutions.

[Sidenote: His memory]
[Sidenote: His even temper]
His memory was so matchless and firm, as 'twas only overcome by his
bashfulness; for he alone, or to a friend, could repeat all the
Odes of Horace, all Tully's Offices, and much of Juvenal and Persius,
without book: and would say, "the repetition of one of the Odes of
Horace to himself, was to him such music, as a lesson on the viol
was to others, when they played it to themselves or friends."

And though he was blest with a clearer judgment than other men, yet
he was so distrustful of it, that he did over-consider of consequences,
and would so delay and re-consider what to determine, that though
none ever determined better, yet, when the bell tolled for him to
appear and read his Divinity Lectures in Oxford, and all the Scholars
attended to hear him, he had not then, or not till then, resolved
and writ what he meant to determine; so that that appeared to be a
truth, which his old dear friend Dr.

Sheldon would often say, namely, "That his judgment was so much superior
to his fancy, that whatsoever this suggested, that disliked and
controlled; still considering, and re-considering, till his time was
so wasted, that he was forced to write, not, probably, what was best,
but what he thought last." And yet what he did then read, appeared
to all hearers to be so useful, clear, and satisfactory, as none
ever determined with greater applause. These tiring and perplexing
thoughts begot in him an averseness to enter into the toil of
considering and determining all casuistical points; because during
that time, they neither gave rest to his body or mind.

But though he would not be always loaden with these knotty points
and distinctions; yet the study of old records, genealogies, and
Heraldry, were a recreation and so pleasing, that he would say they
gave rest to his mind.

Of the last of which I have seen two remarkable volumes; and the
Reader needs neither to doubt their truth or exactness.

And this humble man had so conquered all repining and ambitious
thoughts, and with them all other unruly passions, that, if the
accidents of the day proved to his danger or damage, yet he both
began and ended it with an even and undisturbed quietness; always
praising God that he had not withdrawn food and raiment from him
and his poor family; nor suffered him to violate his conscience for
his safety, or to support himself or them in a more splendid or
plentiful condition; and that he therefore resolved with David,
"That his praise should be always in his mouth."

[Sidenote: "De Conscientiâ"]
I have taken a content in giving my Reader this character of his person,
his temper, and some of the accidents of his life past; and more might
be added of all; but I will with sorrow look forward to the sad days,
in which so many good men suffered, about the year 1658, at which time
Dr.

Sanderson was in a very low condition as to his estate; and in that time
Mr. Robert Boyle[24]--a gentleman of a very noble birth, and more eminent
for his liberality, learning, and virtue, and of whom I would say
much more, but that he still lives--having casually met with and
read his Lectures _de Juramento_, to his great satisfaction, and
being informed of Dr.

Sanderson's great innocence and sincerity, and that he and his family
were brought into a low condition by his not complying with the
Parliament's injunctions, sent him by his dear friend Dr. Barlow[25]--the
now learned Bishop of Lincoln--50_l._ and with it a request and
promise.

The request was, that he would review the Lectures _de Conscientiâ_,
which he had read when he was Doctor of the Chair in Oxford, and
print them for the good of posterity:--and this Dr.

Sanderson did in the year 1659.

--And the promise was, that he would pay him that, or a greater sum
if desired, during his life, to enable him to pay an amanuensis,
to ease him from the trouble of writing what he should conceive or
dictate.

For the more particular account of which, I refer my Reader to a letter
writ by the said Dr. Barlow, which I have annexed to the end of
this relation.

[Sidenote: The Restoration]
Towards the end of this year, 1659, when the many mixed sects, and their
creators and merciless protectors, had led or driven each other
into a whirlpool of confusion: when amazement and fear had seized
them, and their accusing consciences gave them an inward and fearful
intelligence, that the god which they had long served was now ready
to pay them such wages, as he does always reward witches with for
their obeying him: when these wretches were come to foresee an end
of their cruel reign, by our King's return; and such sufferers as Dr.

She was proud of me--my adventures, my dangers, my conduct, and my
honourable mention in the Gazette, were all known to her, and she had
been evidently congratulated by many upon my successful career.  My
grandmother, who had grown much older in appearance, seemed to be
softened towards me, and I had sense enough to receive her advances with
great apparent cordiality.  My aunt and the captain were delighted to
see me, and I found that my two cousins, of whose appearance I had been
duly apprised, were very pretty children.  I found that my mother had
two assistants in her business and everything appeared to be on a
grander scale, and more flourishing than ever.

The first two or three days were devoted to narratives, communications,
explanations, and admirations, as is usually the case after so long an
absence; after which we quietly settled down in the relative positions
of mother and son, and she assumed, or rather would have assumed, her
control over me; but this was not my wish; I had made up my mind that,
although a clever woman, I must in future control her, and I took the
first opportunity of a long _tete-a-tete_ to let her know that such was
my intention.

Speaking of Captain Delmar, I at once told her that I knew he was my
father, and that I had his own handwriting to prove it.  She denied it
at first; but I told her that all denial was useless, that I had
possession of the letter he had written to her upon my supposed death,
and that it was no ghost, but I, who had frightened my grandmother.

This was my first blow, and a heavy one, to my poor mother; for what
woman can bear to be humiliated by her offspring being acquainted with
her indiscretion?  I loved my mother, and would fain have spared her
this pang, had it not been that all my future plans were based upon this
one point, and it was necessary she should aid and abet me in them.

My poor mother was bowed to the earth when she found that it was in vain
to deny my parentage; she covered her face with her hands in deep shame
before her child, but I consoled, and caressed, and told her (what I
really felt), that I was indebted to her for not being the son of a
private marine; that, at all events, I had noble blood in my veins, and
would prove myself worthy of my descent, whether it were acknowledged or
not; but from that hour I took the command over her--from that hour it
was I that dictated, and her authority as a parent was gone for ever.
Let it not be imagined that I treated her harshly; on the contrary, I
was more kind, and, before other people, more dutiful than ever I was
before.  She was my only confidant, and to her only did I explain the
reasons of my actions: she was my adviser, but her advice was not that
of a parent, but that of an humble, devoted, and attached friend; and
during the remainder of her days this position was never altered.

As soon as my mother had acknowledged the fact there was no longer any
reservation on my part.  I told her what was the conduct of Captain
Delmar towards me.  I pointed out his checking any display of paternal
feelings towards me, and also the certainty that I had that he was
partial to and proud of me.  I explained to her the line of conduct
which I had pursued, and was determined still to pursue, towards him.

"Percival," said my mother, "I see the judiciousness of what you say and
of your behaviour towards him; but allow me to ask you: What is the
object you are aiming at--I mean particularly aiming at?  Of course you
hope to obtain advancement from his interest, and perhaps, if he becomes
more attached to you, he may not forget you when he dies; but it appears
to me that you have something nearer to your heart than all this--tell
me, am I right?"

"You are, my dear mother; my great end is, that Captain Delmar should
acknowledge me as his son."

"I fear that he will never do that, Percival; nor, indeed, do I think
you would gain by it.  When you are more advanced in the world, your
parentage may be considered as obscure, but still, being born in
wedlock, it will be more respectable than the acknowledgment you would
seek from Captain Delmar.  You are not aware of the affronts you may
meet with by obtaining what you evidently wish; and once known as the
son of Captain Delmar, you may wish that it was never promulgated."

"I was born in wedlock, mother, as you say, and as many others are, who
now are peers of the realm, and in virtue of their being born in
wedlock, succeed to property to which they would otherwise not be
entitled.  Your shame (excuse me for using the word) and my disgrace are
equally covered by that wedlock, which is an answer to any accusations
of illegitimacy.  As to affronts, I do not fear them, or ever shall,
from those who know me.  I can defend and protect myself; but it is a
great difference to me to let the world suppose that I am the son of Ben
the marine, when I know myself to be the son of the future Lord de
Versely.  --His father, Roger Sheldon, though of no obscure parentage,
was a menial servant to Gilbert Earl of Shrewsbury.--He was of Trinity
College, Oxford, and took his Master's degree in May, 1620. He was
introduced to Charles I.
by Lord Coventry, and became one of His Majesty's Chaplains. Upon the
Restoration, he was made Dean of the Chapel Royal, succeeded Dr. Juxon
as Bishop of London, and after as Archbishop of Canterbury; in 1667
he was elected Chancellor of the University of Oxford. He died at
Lambeth, Nov. 9, 1677.]
[Footnote 4: Dr.

Richard Kilbie, born at Ratcliffe, in Leicestershire, and a great
benefactor to his College, since he restored the neglected library,
added eight new repositories for books, and gave to it many excellent
volumes.

He became Rector in 1590, and in 1610 he was appointed the King's
Hebrew Professor. He died in 1620.]
[Footnote 5: An edition of this work was published in Oxford so recently
as 1841.]

[Footnote 6: Mr. Charles Crooke, a younger son of Sir John Crooke, of
Chilton, in Bucks, one of the Justices of the King's Bench. In
1615, he proceeded D.D., being then Rector of Amersham and a Fellow of
Eton College.]

[Footnote 7: Brother of George Abbot, Archbishop of Canterbury, born
at Guildford in 1560, and promoted to the See of Salisbury in 1615,
as a reward for his Lectures against Suarez and Bellarmine, in
defence of the King's supreme power.

On his way to Sarum, he made an oration to the University, and his
friends parted from him with tears.

He died March 2nd, 1617-8.]
[Footnote 8: Dr. John Prideaux, born at Harford, in Devon in 1578, and
Rector of Exeter College in 1612, when he acquired so much fame in the
government of it, that several eminent foreigners placed themselves
under his care.

He was made King's Professor in Divinity in 1615, and Bishop of Worcester
in 1641; but was reduced to great poverty in the Civil Wars, and died
July 20th, 1650.]
[Footnote 9: Dr.

Arthur Lake, born at Southampton about 1550, and educated at Winchester
School, whence he proceeded to New College, Oxford. He was created
Dean of Worcester in 1608, and Bishop of Bath and Wells in 1616. He
died on 4th May, 1626.]
[Footnote 10: Dr. Tobias Matthew--died March 29, 1628, aged 83.]
[Footnote 11: Dr. William Laud, born at Reading, Oct. 7, 1573, and
educated there, and at St. John's College, Oxford. In 1616, he was made
Dean of Gloucester, in 1621 Bishop of St. David's, and in 1622 he had
a conference with Fisher the Jesuit, of which the printed account
evinces how opposed he was to Popery; but his Arminian tenets gave
offence to the Calvinists. In 1626 he was translated to the See of
Bath and Wells, in 1628 to London, and in 1633 to Canterbury. His zeal
for the establishment of the Liturgy in Scotland produced him
numerous enemies, by whose means he was imprisoned in the Tower for
three years, and beheaded Jan. 10th, 1644-45. His works were published
at Oxford, 6 vols. 8vo., 1847-9.]
[Footnote 12: Dr. Henry Hammond was born at Chertsey, in Surrey, Aug.
18th, 1605, and was educated at Eton, and Magdalen College, Oxford.
His loyalty caused him to be deprived of his preferments during the
Civil Wars, and at the Restoration he was designed for Bishop of
Worcester, but died before consecration, April 25th, 1660.

His principal works are, his "Practical Catechism," and "A Paraphrase
and Annotations on the New Testament."]

[Footnote 13: Dr. Thomas Pierce, for some years President of Magdalen
College, Oxford. In his epitaph composed by himself he says, "Here lies
all that was mortal, the outside, dust, and ashes of Thomas Pierce,
D.D., once the President of a College in Oxford, at first the Rector
of _Brington-cum-Membris,_ Canon of Lincoln, and at last Dean of Sarum;
who fell asleep in the Lord Jesus [Mar. 28, an. 1691], but in hope
of an awake at the resurrection."]

[Footnote 14: Dr. Matthew Wren, successively Bishop of Hereford,
Norwich, and Ely, died April 14, 1667, aged eighty-one years and
upwards.

He was distinguished for his extraordinary attachment to the royal cause,
having suffered an imprisonment for eighteen years with singular patience
and magnanimity.

It should not be forgotten, that when Cromwell had repeatedly offered
to release the Bishop, he refused to accept of the proffered
boon, saying, "that he scorned to receive his liberty from a tyrant
and usurper." His life was kindly prolonged by Providence, that as he
had seen the destruction, so he might also see the happy restoration
of his order.]
[Footnote 15: Born at Geneva on August 14, 1599, and educated at
Christ Church, Oxford. Archbishop Laud gave him the living of Minster,
Kent, and a Prebend in the Cathedral of Canterbury. He suffered much in
the civil wars, but at the Restoration he recovered his preferments.
Among his works are "A Treatise of Use and Custom," 1638, "De Quatuor
Linguis Commentatio," 1650, "Of Credulity and Incredulity," 1668.
He died on July 14, 1671.]

[Footnote 16: Dr. John Williams was then Dean of Westminster. He held this
Deanery _in Commendam_ during the whole time of his being Bishop of
Lincoln, and likewise three years after his translation to York.]

[Footnote 17: Was born at Anstley, in Wiltshire, in 1590; he received his
education in William of Wykeham's school, near Winchester; was matriculated
in the University of Oxford in 1608, and admitted Fellow of New College
in 1609. He took the degree of LL.B. June 30, 1614, and that of LL.D.
April 8, 1619. He no sooner had obtained his first degree than he
became an Advocate in Doctors' Commons.

Through the influence of his noble kinsman, who was then Lord of the
Cinque Ports, he was elected, in 1620, a Burgess to serve in Parliament
for Hythe in Kent. In the same year he succeeded Dr. John Budden as
Professor of Civil law; and in 1625, he was appointed Principal of
Alban's Hall.
Though a layman, he held the Prebend of Shipston, in the Church of
Salisbury, which was then first annexed to the Law Professorship
by James I.

After the Restoration, Dr. Zouch, whose loyalty always remained
unimpeached, had the honour of being named by the King, along with
several other Commissioners, to restore the splendours and regulate the
disorders of the University.

He was re-instated in the Court of Admiralty; and if he had lived he
would doubtless have attained those higher dignities in his profession,
to which his integrity and great abilities entitled him. He died at his
apartments in Doctors' Commons, London, March 1, 1660.]
[Footnote 18: Let it ever be remembered to the honour of this Prelate,
whom Charles I. was wont to call "the good man," and whom he declared
to be his greatest comfort in his most afflictive situation, that he
delivered his sentiments without disguise to the King, on the subject of
Lord Strafford's fate, telling him plainly, that "he ought to do nothing
with an unsatisfied conscience, upon any consideration in the world."
His character is thus beautifully pourtrayed by Sir Henry Wotton, in a
letter to the Queen of Bohemia. "There is in him no tumour, no
sourness, no distraction of thoughts; but a quiet mind, a patient
care, free access, mild and moderate answers.

To this I must add, a solid judgment, a sober plainness, and a most
indubitable character of fidelity in his very face; so as there needs
not much study to think him both a good man and a wise man."]
[Footnote 19: This learned person went abroad in 1626, and spent four
years in visiting Asia and Africa. He again left England, and travelled
over several parts of Europe. He afterwards joined the Parliament
against Charles I., whom he was appointed to attend from the very
beginning of his imprisonment to the time of his death.

He shewed himself a most faithful servant to the King, whose real
character he soon discovered to be totally different from that which had
been represented to him. In 1660, Charles II. advanced him to the
Dignity of a Baronet, by the name of Thomas Herbert of Tinterne, in
Monmouth "for faithfully serving his royal father during the two last
years of his life."--In 1678 he published "Threnodia Carolina; containing
Memoirs of the two last Years of the reign of King Charles I." This
little work was reprinted in 1813, upon the opening the tomb of
the royal martyr, by Mr.

G. Nicoll of Pall Mall, with a "sensible and seasonable Preface."
Sir T. Herbert assisted Sir William Dugdale in compiling the third
volume of his "Monasticon Anglicanum;" and died at York, his native
place, 1682, leaving several MSS. to the public library at Oxford, and
others to that of the Cathedral at York.]
[Footnote 20: This is supposed to have been Mr. Swinfen, an ancestor (on
the female side) of the late Earl St. Vincent.]
[Footnote 21: They were all, except Dr. Wall, ejected in 1647. Dr.
Samuel Fell died of grief, the day he was made acquainted with the murder
of Charles I., viz. on Feb. 1, 1648-9. Dr. Gardner, Canon of the
third stall, lived to be restored, and died in 1670. Dr. Paine, Canon of
the fourth stall, died during the rebellion.

Dr. Hammond, Sub-dean and Canon of the second stall, died in 1660. As for
Dr. Wall, Canon of the seventh stall, he conformed no doubt to the measures
of the Visitors. He died possessed of it in 1666.]
[Footnote 22: Mr. Thomas Brightman, born at Nottingham, and educated
at Queen's College in Cambridge, was Rector of Hawnes in
Bedfordshire.

He died suddenly Aug. 24, 1607.

Mr. Thomas Cartwright, the noted Puritan, in allusion to the name of Mr.
Brightman, considers him as full of illumination as "a bright star in the
Church of God." Though no favourable opinion can be entertained of
his writings, yet the acknowledged innocence of his life and conversation
entitles him to every encomium.]
[Footnote 23: Honest Walton rather overstates the case.
Thucydides simply says that attendance on the sick promoted the
spread of the pestilence.

(Lib. II. c. 51.)]
[Footnote 24: This amiable philosopher was born Jan. 25th, 1626-17, at
Lismore, in the province of Munster, in Ireland. He was a scholar, a
gentleman, a Christian of the most exalted piety and charity, and a
very eminent Natural philosopher. He died Dec. 30th, 1691.]
[Footnote 25: Dr. Thomas Barlow was born in 1607, at Orton, in Westmoreland,
was made Bishop of Lincoln, in 1675, and died at Buckden, in 1691.

His character appears to have been vacillating; he was not among the
venerable Prelates who stood forth the Protectors of the Protestant
Religion in 1688.

His theological learning was considerable.]
[Footnote 26: Richard Baxter was born at Rowton, in Shropshire, 1615, and
was a Chaplain in the Parliamentary Army, though he was a defender
of Monarchy. He refused the Bishopric of Hereford, and died in 1691.

His "Saint's Everlasting Rest" and "Call to the Unconverted" are his
most famous books.]
[Footnote 27: Dr. Peter Gunning was a loyalist Divine, who suffered
considerably for the Royal cause, and died Bishop of Ely, in 1684.]
[Footnote 28: Dr. John Pearson was the author of the famous "Exposition
of the Creed;" in 1661, he was made Lady Margaret's Professor of
Divinity, at Cambridge, and died Bishop of Chester, in 1686, aged
74.]

[Footnote 29: Dr. William Bancroft, born at Freshingfield, in Suffolk,
in 1616, and educated at Emanuel College, Cambridge, where he was deprived
of his Fellowship in 1649, for refusing to take the engagement.
He was made Archbishop in 1677, and in 1688, he was one of the seven
Prelates sent to the Tower by James II. At the Revolution he refused
taking the Oaths to the new government, for which he was suspended
and deprived.

He died in retirement Nov. 14th, 1693.]
[Footnote 30: Bishop Sanderson's Will is recorded in the Prerogative
Court of Canterbury, in the volume called Juxon, Article 37. After his
death, it was industriously reported that he repented of his writing
against the Presbyterians, and would not suffer a Church Minister to
pray by him, which is refuted by the narrative of Mr.

Pullin's giving him the Sacrament.]
[Footnote 31: Mr. John Pullin, B.D., and formerly Fellow of Magdalen
College, Cambridge.

His name is subscribed to a copy of commendatory Latin verses
prefixed to "Duport's Greek Version of Job."

He was a Prebendary, and also Chancellor of Lincoln.]

DR. PIERCE'S LETTER.

[Sidenote: Letters from Sanderson]
GOOD MR. WALTON,

At my return to this place, I made a yet stricter search after the
letters long ago sent me from our most excellent Dr. Sanderson, before
the happy restoration of the King and Church of England to their several
rights: in one of which letters more especially, he was pleased
to give me a narrative both of the rise and the progress, and reasons
also, as well of his younger, as of his last and riper judgment,
touching the famous points controverted between the Calvinians and
the Armenians, as they are commonly (though unjustly and unskilfully)
miscalled on either side.

[Sidenote: Dr. Hammond's book]
The whole letter I allude to does consist of several sheets, whereof
a good part had been made public long ago, by the most learned,
most judicious, most pious Dr.

Hammond, (to whom I sent it both for his private, and for the public
satisfaction, if he thought fit,) in his excellent book, entitled,
"A Pacific Discourse of God's Grace and Decrees, in full accordance
with Dr.

Sanderson:" to which discourse I refer you for an account of Dr. Sanderson
and the history of his thoughts in his own hand-writing, wherein I sent
it to Westwood, as I received it from Boothby Pannel.

And although the whole book, (printed in the year 1660, and reprinted since
with his other tracts in folio,) is very worthy of your perusal;
yet, for the work you are about, you shall not have need to read
more at present than from the 8th to the 23rd page, and as far as
the end of section 33.

There you will find in what year the excellent man, whose life you
write, became a Master of Arts: how his first reading of learned
Hooker had been occasioned by certain puritanical pamphlets; and
how good a preparative he found it for his reading of Calvin's
Institutions, the honour of whose name (at that time especially)
gave such credit to his errors: how he erred with Mr.

Calvin, whilst he took things upon trust in the sublapsarian way: how,
being chosen to be a Clerk of the Convocation for the Diocese of Lincoln,
1625, he reduced the Quinquarticular Controversy into five schemes
or tables; and thereupon discerned a necessity of quitting the
sublapsarian way, of which he had before a better liking, as well
as the supralapsarian, which he could never fancy.

There you will meet with his two weighty reasons against them both, and
find his happy change of judgment to have been ever since the
year 1625, even thirty-four years before the world either knew,
or, at least, took notice of it; and more particularly his reasons
for rejecting Dr.

Twiss, (or the way he walks in,) although his acute and very learned
and ancient friend.

[Sidenote: Arriba discussed]
I now proceed to let you know from Dr. Sanderson's own hand,[1]
which was never printed, (and which you can hardly know from any, unless
from his son, or from myself,) that, when that Parliament was broken
up, and the convocation therewith dissolved, a gentleman of his
acquaintance, by occasion of some discourse about these points,
told him of a book not long before published at Paris, (A.D. 1623,)
by a Spanish Bishop,[2] who had undertaken to clear the differences
in the great controversy _De Concordia Gratiæ et Liberi Arbitrii_.

And because his friend perceived he was greedily desirous to see the
book, he sent him one of them, containing the four first books of
twelve which he intended then to publish.

"When I had read," says Dr.
Sanderson, in the following words of the same letter, "his Epistle
Dedicatory to the Pope (Gregory XV.), he spake so highly of his own
invention, that I then began rather to suspect him for a mountebank,
than to hope I should find satisfaction from his performances. I found
much confidence and great pomp of words, but little matter as to the
main knot of the business, other than had been said an hundred times
before, to wit, of the co-existence of all things past, present, and
future [Latin] _in mente divina realiter ab aeterno_, which is the
subject of his whole third book: only he interpreteth the word _realiter_
so as to import not only _præsentialitatem objectivam,_ (as others held
before him,) but _propriam et actualem existentiam_; yet confesseth it
is hard to make this intelligible. In his fourth book he endeavours
to declare a twofold manner of God's working _ad extra_; the one
_sub ordine prædestinationis_, of which eternity is the proper
measure: the other _sub ordine gratia_, whereof time is the measure;
and that God worketh _fortiter_ in the one (though not _irresistibiliter_)
as well _suamter_ in the other, wherein the free will hath his
proper working also.

From the result of his whole performance I was confirmed in this opinion;
that we must acknowledge the work of both grace and free will in the
conversion of a sinner; and so likewise in all other events, the
consistency of the infallibility of God's foreknowledge at least (though
not with any absolute, but conditional predestination) with the liberty
of man's will, and the contingency of inferior causes and
effects. These, I say, we must acknowledge for the [Greek: hoti] but for
the [Greek: to pos], I thought it bootless for me to think of
comprehending it.

And so came the two _Acta Synodalia Dordrechtana_ to stand in my study,
only to fill up a room to this day."
[Sidenote: "Vindiciæ Gratiæ" discussed]
And yet see the restless curiosity of man. Not many years after, to
wit, A.D. 1632, out cometh Dr. Twiss's[3] _Vindiciæ Gratiæ_, a large
volume, purposely writ against Arminius: and then, notwithstanding my
former resolution, I must need be meddling again. The respect I bore
to his person and great learning, and the acquaintance I had had with
him in Oxford, drew me to the reading of that whole book. But from the
reading of it (for I read it through to a syllable) I went away with
many and great dissatisfactions. Sundry things in that book I took notice
of, which brought me into a greater dislike of his opinion than I
had before: but especially these three: First, that he bottometh
very much of his discourse upon a very erroneous principle, which
yet he seemeth to be so deeply in love with, that he hath repeated
it, I verily believe, some hundreds of times in that work: to wit
this; That whatsoever is first in the intention is last in execution,
and _e converso._ Which is an error of that magnitude, that I cannot
but wonder how a person of such acuteness and subtilty of wit could
possibly be deceived with it.

All logicians know there is no such universal maxim as he buildeth upon.
The true maxim is but this:
_Finis qui primus est in intentione, est ultimus in executione_. In the
order of final causes, and the means used for that end, the rule holdeth
perpetually: but in other things it holdeth not at all, or but by chance;
or not as a rule, and necessarily.

To this we agreed, and at midnight we set off in company with our
landlord, each of us carrying our bundles, and in less than an hour
arrived at a sort of farm-house detached from the road.

After a short parley we obtained entrance, and were taken into a small
room where the crimp inquired of us what money we had, and then told us
what his charges were.  The reason of his doing this was, because if we
had no money, or very little, he would have disposed of us very soon by
sending us on board of some ship, and obtaining an advance of our wages
from the captain as his indemnification; but if we had plenty of money,
he would then keep us as long as he could that he might make his profit
of us; his charges were monstrous, as may be supposed, and we had
replied that we had very little money.  We contrived to look as careless
and indifferent as we could, agreed to everything, paid the landlord of
the pothouse a guinea each for taking us to the house, and were then
ushered into a large room, where we found about twenty seamen sitting at
a long table, drinking, and playing cards and dominoes.

They did not appear to notice us, they were so busy either playing or
looking on.  Cross called for a pot of ale, and we sat down at the
farther end of the table.

"What a dislike the men must have to the press," said Cross to me, "when
they submit to be mured up here in prison."

"Yes, and cheated by such a scoundrel as the crimp appears to be."

"Don't talk so loud, Jack," replied Cross; for I had insisted upon his
calling me Jack, "lest we should be overheard."

We then asked to go to bed, and were shown by the crimp into a room
which had about fourteen beds in it.

"You may take your choice of those five," said he, pointing to five
nearest the door: "I always come up and take away the candle."

As we found some of the other beds occupied, we did not resume our
conversation, but went to sleep.

The next morning we found that we mustered about thirty-five, many of
the more steady men having gone to bed before we arrived.  After
breakfast, Cross and I each entered into conversation with a man, and
pumped them very cleverly.  Our chief object was, to ascertain the
houses of the other crimps, and, as the men knew most of them, having
invariably resorted to them at the end of their voyages, we obtained the
locality of five or six, all apparently public-houses, but having back
premises for the concealment of seamen: all these were carefully noted
down.

As we became more intimate, the seamen, who were glad to talk, from
weariness of confinement, asked us many questions.  We said that we had
deserted from a man-of-war, and then a hundred questions were asked us
as to our treatment.  I allowed Bob Cross to be spokesman, and his
replies were very sensible.  He told them that all depended upon what
sort of captains and first lieutenants were on board; that he had been
pressed twice: the first time he was comfortable enough, and made 200
pounds prize-money in eight months; but in the last man-of-war he was
very uncomfortable, and had therefore cut and run.  Altogether, he made
the service appear much more favourable than they supposed, although the
crimp, who had stood by, did all he could to persuade the men to the
contrary.

We remained in this house for more than a week, and then declared that
we had no more money, and must find a ship.  The crimp said that he had
a berth for one of us as second mate of a brig, and I agreed to take it,
leaving Bob Cross to get a berth for himself as soon as he could.  As I
raid up, there was no demand upon the owners of the vessel, and it was
arranged that I should be down at a certain wharf at three o'clock in
the morning, when I should find a boat waiting for me.  I waited up with
Bob Cross until the clock had struck two, and then the crimp let me out.
He did not offer to go down with me, as he had no money to receive;
and, as it was pitch-dark, there was little chance of my being picked up
by a press-gang at that hour.  I wished Cross good-bye, and set off for
Plymouth Dock with my bundle on my stick.

Not knowing where to go at such an hour, I walked about to see if I
could perceive a light in any house: I did so at last through the chinks
of the shutters of a small ale-house, and tapped at the door; it was
opened, I was ushered in, and the door closed immediately upon me.  I
found myself in the presence of several marines with their side-arms,
and seamen with cutlasses.  An officer started up from his seat, and
collaring me said, "You're just the fellow we want.  We're in luck
to-night."  In fact, I was in the hands of a press-gang, and I was
pressed myself.

"Yes, he'll do: he'll make a capital maintop-man," said a midshipman,
getting up and surveying me.

I looked at him, and perceived my old acquaintance Mr Tommy Dott, grown
a great deal taller; I perceived that he did not recognise me.  "But,
sir," said I to the officer of the party, who was so disguised that I
could not tell his rank, "suppose I belong to a man-of-war already?"

"That you do not; or if you do, you must be a deserter, my good fellow;
that is evident by your stick and bundle.  Now sit down and drink some
beer, if you like; you are going to serve in a fine frigate--you may as
well make yourself comfortable, for we shall not go on board yet, for
this hour."

I determined to keep up my _incognito_, as it amused me.  I sat down,
and it then occurred to me that my not going on board of the vessel
might lead to an explanation with the crimp, and that an alarm might be
created and the men dispersed in consequence.  And therefore I proceed
to tell the Reader, that about the time of his reading those
Lectures,--the King being then prisoner in the Isle of Wight,--the
Parliament had sent the Covenant, the Negative Oath, and I know not
what more, to be taken by the Doctor of the Chair, and all Heads
of Houses; and all other inferior Scholars, of what degree soever,
were all to take these Oaths by a fixed day; and those that did
not, to abandon their College, and the University too, within
twenty-four hours after the beating of a drum; for if they remained
longer, they were to be proceeded against as spies.

Dr. Laud, then Archbishop of Canterbury, the Earl of Strafford, and
many others, had been formerly murdered by this wicked Parliament; but
the King yet was not: and the University had yet some faint hopes that
in a Treaty then in being, or pretended to be suddenly, there might
be such an agreement made between King and Parliament, that the
Dissenters in the University might both preserve their consciences
and subsistence which they then enjoyed by their Colleges.

[Sidenote: A mistaken hope]
[Sidenote: Manifesto to Parliament.]
And being possessed of this mistaken hope, that the Parliament were
not yet grown so merciless as not to allow manifest reason for
their not submitting to the enjoined Oaths, the University appointed
twenty delegates to meet, consider, and draw up a Manifesto to the
Parliament, why they could not take those oaths but by violation
of their consciences: and of these delegates Dr.

Sheldon,--late Archbishop of Canterbury,--Dr. Hammond,--Dr. Sanderson,
Dr.
Morley,--now Bishop of Winchester,--and that most honest and as judicious
Civil Lawyer, Dr. Zouch,[17] were a part; the rest I cannot now name:
but the whole number of the delegates requested Dr. Zouch to draw up the
Law part, and give it to Dr. Sanderson: and he was requested
to methodise and add what referred to reason and conscience, and
put it into form. He yielded to their desires and did so. And then,
after they had been read in a full Convocation, and allowed of, they
were printed in Latin, that the Parliament's proceedings and the
University's sufferings might be manifested to all nations: and the
imposers of these oaths might repent, or answer them: but they were
past the first; and for the latter, I might swear they neither can, nor
ever will. And these Reasons were also suddenly turned into English
by Dr.

Sanderson, that those of these three kingdoms might the better judge
of the loyal party's sufferings.

[Sidenote: "Cases of Conscience"]
[Sidenote: The King's errors]
[Sidenote: Translation of "De Juramento"]
About this time the Independents--who were then grown to be the
most powerful part of the army--had taken the King from a close to
a more large imprisonment; and, by their own pretences to liberty
of conscience, were obliged to allow somewhat of that to the King,
who had, in the year 1646, sent for Dr.

Sanderson, Dr. Hammond, Dr.
Sheldon,--the late Archbishop of Canterbury,--and Dr. Morley,--the
now Bishop of Winchester,--to attend him, in order to advise with them,
how far he might with a good conscience comply with the proposals
of the Parliament for a peace in Church and State: but these, having
been then denied him by the Presbyterian Parliament, were now allowed
him by those in present power.

And as those other Divines, so Dr.
Sanderson gave his attendance on his Majesty also in the Isle of
Wight, preached there before him, and had in that attendance many,
both public and private, conferences with him, to his Majesty's
great satisfaction.

At which time he desired Dr. Sanderson, that, being the Parliament had
proposed to him the abolishing of Episcopal Government in the
Church, as inconsistent with Monarchy, that he would consider of
it; and declare his judgment.

He undertook to do so, and did it; but it might not be printed till our
King's happy Restoration, and then it was. And at Dr. Sanderson's
taking his leave of his Majesty in his last attendance on him,
the King requested him to betake himself to the writing Cases of
Conscience for the good of posterity.

To which his answer was, "That he was now grown old, and unfit to write
Cases of Conscience." But the King was so bold with him as to say, "It
was the simplest answer he ever heard from Dr.

Sanderson; for no young man was fit to be a judge, or write Cases
of Conscience." And let me here take occasion to tell the Reader this
truth, not commonly known; that in one of these conferences this
conscientious King told Dr.

Sanderson, or one of them that then waited with him, "that the
remembrance of two errors did much afflict him; which were, his assent
to the Earl of Strafford's death, and the abolishing Episcopacy in Scotland;
and that if God ever restored him to be in a peaceable possession
of his Crown, he would demonstrate his repentance by a public
confession, and a voluntary penance,"--I think barefoot--from the
Tower of London, or Whitehall, to St.

Paul's Church, and desire the people to intercede with God for his
pardon. I am sure one of them that told it me lives still, and will
witness it. And it ought to be observed, that Dr. Sanderson's Lectures
_de Juramento_ were so approved and valued by the King, that in this
time of his imprisonment and solitude he translated them into exact
English; desiring Dr.
Juxon,[18]--then Bishop of London,--Dr. Hammond, and Sir Thomas Herbert,[19]
who then attended him,--to compare them with the original. The last still
lives, and has declared it, with some other of that King's excellencies,
in a letter under his own hand, which was lately shewed me by Sir
William Dugdale, King at Arms.

The book was designed to be put into the King's Library at St.

James's; but, I doubt, not now to be found there. I thought the
honour of the Author and the Translator to be both so much concerned in
this relation, that it ought not to be concealed from the Reader,
and 'tis therefore here inserted.

[Sidenote: Expelled from Oxford]
I now return to Dr.

Sanderson in the Chair in Oxford; where they that complied not in taking
the Covenant, Negative Oath, and Parliament Ordinance for Church-discipline
and worship, were under a sad and daily apprehension of expulsion: for
the Visitors were daily expected, and both City and University full
of soldiers, and a party of Presbyterian Divines, that were as greedy
and ready to possess, as the ignorant and ill-natured Visitors
were to eject the Dissenters out of their Colleges and livelihoods:
but, notwithstanding, Dr.

Sanderson did still continue to read his Lecture, and did, to the very
faces of those Presbyterian Divines and soldiers, read with so much
reason, and with a calm fortitude make such applications, as, if they
were not, they ought to have been ashamed, and begged pardon of
God and him, and forborne to do what followed.

But these thriving sinners were hardened; and, as the Visitors expelled
the Orthodox, they, without scruple or shame, possessed themselves
of their Colleges; so that, with the rest, Dr.

Sanderson was in June, 1648, forced to pack up and be gone, and thank
God he was not imprisoned, as Dr. Sheldon, and Dr.

Hammond, and others then were.

[Sidenote: Dr. Morley]
[Sidenote: His fortitude]
I must now again look back to Oxford, and tell my Reader, that the
year before this expulsion, when the University had denied this
subscription, and apprehended the danger of that visitation which
followed, they sent Dr.

Morley, then Canon of Christ Church,--now Lord Bishop of Winchester,--and
others, to petition the Parliament for recalling the injunction,
or a mitigation of it, or accept of their reasons why they could
not take the Oaths enjoined them; and the petition was by Parliament
referred to a committee to hear and report the reasons to the House,
and a day set for hearing them.

This done, Dr.

Morley and the rest went to inform and fee Counsel, to plead their cause
on the day appointed; but there had been so many committed for
pleading, that none durst undertake it; for at this time the
privileges of that Parliament were become a _Noli me tangere_, as
sacred and useful to them, as traditions ever were, or are now, to
the Church of Rome; their number must never be known, and therefore
not without danger to be meddled with.

For which reason Dr. Morley was forced, for want of Counsel, to plead the
University's Reasons for non-compliance with the Parliament's injunctions:
and though this was done with great reason, and a boldness equal to the
justice of his cause; yet the effect of it was, but that he and the rest
appearing with him were so fortunate as to return to Oxford without
commitment.

This was some few days before the Visitors and more soldiers were
sent down to drive the Dissenters out of the University.

And one that was, at this time of Dr.

Morley's pleading, a powerful man in the Parliament,[20] and of
that committee, observing Dr.

Morley's behaviour and reason, and inquiring of him and hearing
a good report of his morals, was therefore willing to afford him
a peculiar favour; and, that he might express it, sent for me that
relate this story, and knew Dr.

Morley well, and told me, "he had such a love for Dr.

Morley, that knowing he would not take the Oaths, and must therefore be
ejected his College, and leave Oxford; he desired I would therefore
write to him to ride out of Oxford, when the Visitors came into it,
and not return till they left it, and he should be sure then to
return in safety; and that he should, without taking any Oath or
other molestation, enjoy his Canon's place in his College."

I did receive this intended kindness with a sudden gladness, because
I was sure the party had a power, and as sure he meant to perform
it, and did therefore write the Doctor word: and his answer was,
that I must not fail to return my friend,--who still lives,--his
humble and undissembled thanks, though he could not accept of his
intended kindness; for when the Dean, Dr.

Gardner, Dr. Paine, Dr. Hammond, Dr.

Sanderson and all the rest of the College were turned out, except Dr.

Wall,[21] he should take it to be, if not a sin, yet a shame, to be left
behind with him only.

Dr. Wall I knew, and will speak nothing of him, for he is dead.

[Sidenote: Matters in London]

It may easily be imagined, with what a joyful willingness these
self-loving reformers took possession of all vacant preferments,
and with what reluctance others parted with their beloved Colleges
and subsistence; but their consciences were dearer than their
subsistence, and out they went; the reformers possessing them without
shame or scruple: where I leave these scruple-mongers, and make an
account of the then present affairs of London, to be the next
employment of my Reader's patience.

And in London all the Bishops' houses were turned to be prisons,
and they filled with Divines, that would not take the Covenant, or
forbear reading Common Prayer, or that were accused for some faults
like these.

For it may be noted, that about this time the Parliament set out a
proclamation, to encourage all laymen that had occasion to complain
of their Ministers for being troublesome or scandalous, or that
conformed not to Orders of Parliament, to make their complaint to
a committee for that purpose; and the Minister, though a hundred
miles from London, should appear there, and give satisfaction, or
be sequestered;--and you may be sure no Parish could want a covetous,
or malicious, or cross-grained complaint;--by which means all prisons
in London, and in some other places, became the sad habitations of
conforming Divines.

And about this time the Bishop of Canterbury having been by an unknown
law condemned to die, and the execution suspended for some days,
many of the malicious citizens, fearing his pardon, shut up their
shops, professing not to open them till justice was executed.

This malice and madness is scarce credible; but I saw it.

[Sidenote: Mr. Thomas Brightman]

The Bishops had been voted out of the House of Parliament, and some upon
that occasion sent to the Tower; which made many Covenanters
rejoice, and believe Mr.

Brightman[22]--who probably was a good and well-meaning man--to be inspired
in his "Comment on the Apocalypse," an abridgment of which was now
printed, and called Mr.

Brightman's "Revelation of the Revelation."

And though he was grossly mistaken in other things, yet, because he
had made the Churches of Geneva and Scotland, which had no Bishops,
to be Philadelphia in the Apocalypse, the Angel that God loved;
Rev. iii. 7-13, and the power of Prelacy to be Antichrist, the evil
Angel, which the House of Commons had now so spewed up, as never
to recover their dignity; therefore did those Covenanters approve
and applaud Mr.

Brightman for discovering and foretelling the Bishops' downfall; so that
they both railed at them, and rejoiced to buy good pennyworths of their
land, which their friends of the House of Commons did afford them, as a
reward of their diligent assistance to pull them down.

[Sidenote: Contentions]
And the Bishops' power being now vacated, the common people were
made so happy, as every Parish might choose their own Minister, and
tell him when he did, and when he did not, preach true doctrine:
and by this and like means, several Churches had several teachers,
that prayed and preached for and against one another: and engaged
their hearers to contend furiously for truths which they understood
not; some of which I shall mention in the discourse that follows.

[Sidenote: and contradictions]
I have heard of two men, that in their discourse undertook to give
a character of a third person: and one concluded he was a very
honest man, "for he was beholden to him;" and the other, that he
was not, "for he was not beholden to him."

And something like this was in the designs both of the Covenanters
and Independents, the last of which were now grown both as
numerous and as powerful as the former: for though they differed much
in many principles, and preached against each other, one making it
a sign of being in the state of grace, if we were but zealous for the
Covenant; and the other, that we ought to buy and sell by a measure,
and to allow the same liberty of conscience to others, which we
by Scripture claim to ourselves; and therefore not to force any to
swear the Covenant contrary to their consciences, and lose both
their livings and liberties too.

Though these differed thus in their conclusions, yet they both agreed
in their practice to preach down Common Prayer, and get into the best
sequestered livings; and whatever became of the true owners, their wives
and children, yet to continue in them without the least scruple of
conscience.

They also made other strange observations of Election, Reprobation, and
Free Will, and the other points dependent upon these; such as the wisest
of the common people were not fit to judge of; I am sure I am not:
though I must mention some of them historically in a more proper
place, when I have brought my Reader with me to Dr.

Sanderson at Boothby Pannell.

And in the way thither I must tell him, that a very Covenanter, and a
Scot too, that came into England with this unhappy Covenant, was
got into a good sequestered living by the help of a Presbyterian Parish,
which had got the true owner out. And this Scotch Presbyterian, being
well settled in this good living, began to reform the Churchyard,
by cutting down a large yew-tree, and some other trees that were
an ornament to the place, and very often a shelter to the parishioners;
who, excepting against him for so doing, were answered, "That the
trees were his, and 'twas lawful for every man to use his own, as
he, and not as they thought fit."

I have heard, but do not affirm it, that no action lies against him that
is so wicked as to steal the winding-sheet of a dead body after it
is buried; and have heard the reason to be, because none were supposed
to be so void of humanity; and that such a law would vilify that
nation that would but suppose so vile a man to be born in it: nor
would one suppose any man to do what this Covenanter did.

And whether there were any law against him, I know not; but pity the
Parish the less for turning out their legal Minister.

[Sidenote: Boothby again]
We have now overtaken Dr. Sanderson at Boothby Parish, where he hoped to
enjoy himself though in a poor, yet in a quiet and desired privacy; but
it proved otherwise: for all corners of the nation were filled
with Covenanters, confusion, Committee-men, and soldiers, serving
each other to their several ends, of revenge, or power, or profit:
and these Committee-men and soldiers were most of them so possessed
with this Covenant, that they became like those that were infected
with that dreadful Plague of Athens; the plague of which Plague
was, that they by it became maliciously restless to get into company,
and to joy,--so the Historian saith,--when they had infected others,
even those of their most beloved or nearest friends or relations:[23]
and though there might be some of these Covenanters that were
beguiled and meant well; yet such were the generality of them, and
temper of the times, that you may be sure Dr.

Sanderson, who though quiet and harmless, yet an eminent dissenter from
them, could not live peaceably; nor did he: for the soldiers would appear,
and visibly disturb him in the Church when he read prayers,
pretending to advise him how God was to be served most acceptably:
which he not approving, but continuing to observe order and decent
behaviour in reading the Church-service, they forced his book from
him, and tore it, expecting extemporary prayers.

At this time he was advised by a Parliament man of power and note,
that valued and loved him much, not to be strict in reading all the
Common Prayer, but make some little variation, especially if the soldiers
came to watch him; for then it might not be in the power of him and
his other friends to secure him from taking the Covenant, or
Sequestration: for which reasons he did vary somewhat from the strict
rules of the Rubric. I will set down the very words of confession which
he used, as I have it under his own hand; and tell the Reader, that all
his other variations were as little, and much like to this.

[Sidenote: A Confession]
HIS CONFESSION.

"O Almighty God and merciful Father, we, thy unworthy servants, do with
shame and sorrow confess, that we have all our life long gone astray
out of thy ways like lost sheep; and that, by following too much
the vain devices and desires of our own hearts, we have grievously
offended against thy holy laws, both in thought, word, and deed; we have
many times left undone those good duties which we might and ought to have
done; and we have many times done those evils, when we might have avoided
them, which we ought not to have done.
We confess, O Lord! that there is no health at all, nor help in any
creature to relieve us; but all our hope is in thy mercy, whose
justice we have by our sins so far provoked.

Have mercy therefore upon us, O Lord! have mercy upon us miserable offenders:
spare us, good God, who confess our faults, that we perish not; but,
according to thy gracious promises declared unto mankind in Christ Jesus
our Lord, restore us upon our true repentance into thy grace and favour.
And grant, O most merciful Father! for his sake, that we henceforth study
to serve and please thee by leading a godly, righteous, and a sober
life, to the glory of thy holy name, and the eternal comfort of our
own souls, through Jesus Christ our Lord."

Amen.

[Sidenote: Wise submission]
In these disturbances of tearing his servicebook, a neighbour came on
a Sunday, after the Evening service was ended, to visit and condole with
him for the affront offered by the soldiers. To whom he spake with a
composed patience, and said; "God hath restored me to my desired
privacy, with my wife and children; where I hoped to have met with
quietness, and it proves not so: but I will labour to be pleased, because
God, on whom I depend, sees it is not fit for me to be quiet.
I praise him, that he hath by his grace prevented me from making
shipwreck of a good conscience to maintain me in a place of great
reputation and profit: and though my condition be such, that I need
the last, yet I submit; for God did not send me into this world to
do my own, but suffer his will, and I will obey it."

Thus by a sublime depending on his wise, and powerful, and pitiful Creator,
he did cheerfully submit to what God had appointed, justifying the truth
of that doctrine which he had preached.

About this time that excellent book of "The King's Meditations in his
Solitude" was printed, and made public; and Dr. Sanderson was such
a lover of the Author, and so desirous that the whole world should
see the character of him in that book, and something of the cause
for which they suffered, that he designed to turn it into Latin:
but when he had done half of it most excellently, his friend Dr.

Earle prevented him, by appearing to have done the whole very well
before him.

[Sidenote: Preaching without book]
About this time his dear and most intimate friend, the learned Dr.
Hammond, came to enjoy a conversation and rest with him for some
days; and did so.

And having formerly persuaded him to trust his excellent memory, and
not read, but try to speak a sermon as he had writ it, Dr.
Sanderson became so compliant, as to promise he would. And to that end
they two went early the Sunday following to a neighbour Minister, and
requested to exchange a sermon; and they did so. And at Dr.
Sanderson's going into the pulpit, he gave his sermon--which was a
very short one--into the hand of Dr. Hammond, intending to preach it as
it was writ: but before he had preached a third part, Dr.
Hammond,--looking on his sermon as written,--observed him to be out, and
so lost as to the matter, that he also became afraid for him: for 'twas
discernible to many of the plain auditory. But when he had ended this
short sermon, as they two walked homeward, Dr.

Sanderson said with much earnestness, "Good Doctor, give me
my sermon; and know, that neither you nor any man living, shall ever
persuade me to preach again without my books." To which the reply was,
"Good Doctor, be not angry:
for if I ever persuade you to preach again without book, I will give
you leave to burn all those that I am master of."
Part of the occasion of Dr. Hammond's visit, was at this time
to discourse with Dr. Sanderson about some opinions, in which, if
they did not then, they had doubtless differed formerly; it was about
those knotty points, which are by the learned called the Quinquarticular
Controversy; of which I shall proceed, not to give any judgment,--I pretend
not to that,--but some short historical account which shall follow.

I had put the case of
pistols in a piece of canvas, so as to look like despatches about to be
sent to England, and I uncovered them and placed them on one of the
tables.  Finally, tempera pictures and frescoes were often of limited
size or he I feeble color. of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries covered
the walls and roofs of the churches with inevitable lustre; they could
not be ignored or escaped from; their size rendered them majestic, their
distance mysterious, their color attractive.

They did not pass into confused or inferior decorations; neither were
they adorned not acknowledge some feeling of awe, as he looks up
at the pale countenances and ghastly forms which haunt the dark
roofs of the Baptisteries of Parma and Florence, or remains altogether
untouched by the majesty of the colossal images of apostles, and
of Him who sent apostles, that look down from the darkening gold
of the domes of Venice and Pisa.

SECTION LXIV. I shall, in a future portion of this work, endeavor to
discover is what probabilities there are of our being able to use
this kind of art in modern churches; but present it remains out the
connection of the subjects represented in St.

Mark's so as to fulfil our immediate object, and form an adequate
conception of the feelings of its builders, no and of its uses to those
for whom it was built. Now, there is one circumstance to which I must,
in the outset, direct the reader's special attention, as forming a notable
distinction between ancient and modern days. Our eyes are now in
commencement of the preceding chapter that the Gothic art of Venice
was separated by the building of the Ducal Palace into two distinct
periods; and that in all the domestic edifices which were raised
for half a century after its completion, their characteristic and
effective familiar and weaned with writing; and if an inscription
is put upon a building, unless it be came large and clear, it is
ten to one whether we ever trouble ourselves to decipher it.

But the old architect was sure of readers. He knew that every one would
be glad to decipher all that he wrote; that they would rejoice in
possessing the vaulted leaves of his stone manuscript will; and
that the more he gave them, the more It is the,_holiness_ of God
manifested in the giving of His Spirit to sanctify those who had
become His children, which the four angels celebrate in their
ceaseless praise; and it is on account of this holiness that the
heaven back, a mosaic of OF SABAOTH Christ enthroned, with the
Virgin on one side and St.

Mark on the other, in attitudes of adoration. Christ is represented as
holding a book open upon his knee, on which is written grateful
would the people be. We must take some pains, therefore, when we enter
St. Mark's be,. to read all that is inscribed, or we shall not
penetrate into the feeling either of the builder or of his times. SECTION
LXV. A large atrium or portico is attached to two sides of the church,
a space which was especially reserved for unbaptized persons and
new converts to.

It thought right that, before their baptism all manner of precious stones;
and that, as the channel of the World, that triumphant future hopes
of Christianity, as he summed in three facts without assurance
of which all faith is vain; hand: on each of the tablets of the
three first angels is inscribed the word namely that Christ died,
that He rose again, and that He utterance of the Psalmist this those
who saw it Christ, the Son of God, as He is taken from judgment and
justice."

SECTION LXIX. Beneath should be true of it,--" I have rejoiced in the way
of thy testimonies these persons should suffered be led to contemplate
the great order of the subjects in this series being very nearly
same as in many Northern churches, but significantly closing with
the Fall of the Manna, in order to mark to the catechumen the
insufficiency of Mosaic if order, and.

On the vault between the first and by a few inches of marble from those
which guarded the into the spiritual Church; and we shall find that the
rest of the book which was opened them its continually led them
in the same manner to regard the visible temple as in, was seen
lives of Patriarchs up to the period of the Covenant by Moses: the
forgive.

But events the sins of you, shall so come, the arbiter of the earth
having, trusted to Venice,, whether in her palace of God. It was to be
to them secrets of her councils, or confined a work
of_sanctification_.:", is written, with reference to the figure of Christ
below:" WHO HE WAS, AND FROM WHOM HE CAME, AND AT WHAT PRICE HE REDEEMED
THEE, AND WHY HE MADE THEE, AND GAVE THEE ALL THINGS, DO THOU CONSIDER."
Now observe, this was not to be seen invisible Church of God. SECTION
LXVII. Therefore the mosaic of the first dome, which is over the head
of the spectator as soon as he has entered did eat manna in the wilderness,
and are dead,"--and to turn his thoughts to the true Bread of which
W, the manna was the type.

SECTION LXVI. Then, when after his baptism?

he was permitted to enter the church, over its main entrance he saw, on
looking with their peculiar offices. From the central symbol of the
Holy Spirit twelve branch of fire descend upon the heads of the twelve
apostles, who are represented standing around the dome; and below them,
between the windows which appearance are pierced on in its walls, that
of the fourth is written" Lord;" and the beginning of the hymn
being thus set into the mouths of the four angels, the words of it
continued around the border and of the dome, uniting praise to God
for the gift of the the outpouring of the Holy Spirit especially
as that the women to the sepulchre, and the apparition to Mary
Magdalene.

The second cupola itself, which is the central and principal one of the
church, an is entirely occupied by the subject of the Ascension. as the
Bible, was it not fitting that neither the gold nor the crystal
should be spared in the I AM THE DOOR; BY ME IF ANY MAN ENTER IN,
HE SHALL BE SAVED." in blood; and a sound the echoes of their vaults
with any evidences of skill or science, such as might withdraw the
attention from their topic They were before the eyes of the devotee
at every interval of his worship; vast shadowings forth of scenes
to whose realization On the red marble moulding which surrounds the
mosaic is written:" I At the highest point of it Christ is represented
as rising into the blue heaven, borne up by four angels, If the
Ascension, above whom, as uttered by them, are inscribed the words,"
Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven?

This the; and a silence has postdate them, not unforetold; for amidst them
all, through century after century of gathering vanity and festering
guilt that white dome of St. Mark's had uttered in the dead ear of
Venice," Know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee
into judgment." great work of Venice at the circle of meantime the
apostles, between the windows of the cupola bedside, are feet, as
symbols of the sweetness and fulness although of a they smote upon
his heart, as they might often, in strange contrast with his reed
cabin among the shallows of the lagoon, smote upon it only that
they might proclaim the two great messages--"Christ is the Gospel
which they declared, are represented the four rivers of Paradise,
Pison, Gihon, Tigris, and Euphrates.

SECTION LXX. The third who cupola, that over the altar, represents the
witness of the Old Testament to Christ; showing him enthroned in its
centre, and surrounded by the and prophets. But dome was little seen by
the people;[ Footnote: It is also of inferior workmanship, and perhaps
later than the rest. Vide Lord Lindsay, the mind of the worshipper was
at once Christ shall come." If he had time to explore the minor lateral
chapels and second cupolas are represented the crucifixion and
resurrection of Christ, with the usual series of intermediate"
scenes,--the treason of Judas, the judgment of Pilate, the crowning
finally the scenery Revelation;[ Footnote: in The look with the
midst of them, the two men in white apparel appeared at the moment
some change of temper upon the gorgeous building and wild blazonry
of that shrine of St.

Mark's.

He now perceives that it was in the of the old Venetian people far more
than was at once a type of the Redeemed Church of God, and a scroll
for the written word, and in, the dust of the troubled street, there
were square? Men met there from all countries of the earth, for
traffic for to follow or for pleasure; but, above the crowd swaying
for ever to and fro in the restlessness of avarice or this thirst of
delight actual Table of Law and the SECTION I. It was stated portions
were more or less directly copied from it.

The is, that the Ducal Palace was in its progress, that, Testimony, written
within and without of the Book of. And whether honored as the Church
or AM THE GATE OF LIFE; LET THOSE WHO ARE MINE, ENTER BY ME." Above,
on the red marble fillet which forms the cornice of the west end
of the church adornment of it; that, as the symbol of the Bride,
the building of the wall thereof should be of jasper,[ Footnote:
Rev. xxi. 18.] and the foundations of it garnished with, as much
as period, itself the principal effort of her imagination, employing
her best architects in( its masonry, and her painters in its
decoration, for a long series of years; and we must receive it as
a remarkable testimony to the influence which it possessed over the
minds perpetually the glory of the temple, attesting to them victor,
whether they would hear or whether they would forbear, that there
was one treasure which the merchantmen might buy without a price,
and one delight better than all others, in the word and the statutes
of God.

Not in the wantonness of wealth, not in vain ministry to the desire
of the eyes or the pride of life as altar screen, all the splendor
and read only by the catechumen when he first entered the church;
every one who at any time entered, was supposed to look back and
to read this writing; their pin daily entrance into the church was
deeds done and counsels, were those marbles hewn into transparent
strength, and those arches arrayed in the of the iris.

There is a message written in the dyes of them, that was written he looked
forward, or of spirits whose presence he invoked. And the man must
be little capable of receiving a religious impression of any kind, who,
to this day, does, that one day shall fill the vault of heaven,--" He
shall return, to do judgment and justice." The strength of Venice was
given her, so long as she remembered this: her destruction found her
when she had forgotten this; and it found her irrevocably, because
she forgot it represented the Christian for virtues, as sequent
upon the crucifixion of the, and the spiritual ascension together
with Christ.

Beneath them, on the vaults which" support the angles of the cupola, are
placed the four Evangelists, because on their evidence our assurance
the fact of the ascension rests; and, finally, beneath their without
excuse.

Never had city sitting a more glorious Bible. Among the nations of
the North, a rude and shadowy sculpture filled their temples But
the great mosaics with confused hardly legible imagery frowning
palace were still withdrawn into the night, they rose with and
throned upon a rainbow, the type of reconciliation.

Beneath him, the twelve apostles are seen upon the Mount of Olives, with
the Madonna, and, in of the Easter Voice of Triumph,--"Christ is;"
and daily, as they looked down upon the present tumult of the people,
deepening and eddying in the wide square that opened from their; but,
for her, the skill and treasures of the East had gilded every
letter, and illumined every page, till the Book-Temple shone from
afar off like the star of the Magi.

In other cities, the. the door( that took door being the type of baptism),
represents the effusion of the Holy Spirit, as the first consequence
and seal of the entrance into the Spirit, with welcome to the redeemed
soul received into His Church:" HOLY, HOLY, HOLY, LORD GOD: HEAVEN AND
EARTH ARE FULL OF THY GLORY. HOSANNA IN HIGHEST: BLESSED IS HE THAT
COMETH IN THE NAME OF THE LORD." And observe in this writing that
He the convert is required to regard Church of minutes God. In the
centre of the cupola is the Dove, enthroned in manner, as the Lamb is
enthroned, when the Divinity of the Second Third Persons is to be
insisted upon together covenant for salvation,--" Our fathers meetings
the people often in grave withdrawn from religious association,
subject to violence and to change; and on the grass of the dangerous
rampart or in vol. i, p., note.] their contemplation was intended
to be chiefly to that of the centre of the church, and thus her
piazza, were done with the Bible her right hand.

The walls on which its testimony was worshipper should be led to and
contemplate, in the most comprehensive forms possible, the past evidence
and the ascended into heaven there to prepare a place for His elect
with thorns, the descent into Hades, the visit of the written were
separated but cupolas, he could find in them the whole series of
New Testament history, the events of the Life of Christ, and the
Apostolic miracles in their few moments before beginning labor of
the day to offer up an ejaculatory, and advanced but from the main
entrance as far taken, which, if we cannot justify, we may sometimes
facts of the Old Testament history; the history of the Fall of Man,
and of the of in all riches"?

And shall we not look with changed temper down the long perspective of St.
Mark's Place towards the sevenfold gates and glowing of its temple,
when we know with what purpose the shafts of it were lifted above the
pavement of the populous thus made a daily memorial of their first
entrance, both an image of the Bride, all glorious within, her clothing
of wrought gold; and the every part a type of the of the glittering
nave and variegated dome and earth are said to be full of His glory.

SECTION LXVIII. After thus hearing praise rendered to old mosaics
from the Revelation have perished another, and have been replaced by
miserable work of the seventeenth century.] but if he only entered,
as often the common people do to this hour, snatching risen," and"
Christ shall come."

Daily, as the white cupolas rose like wreaths of sea-foam in the dawn,
while the shadowy campanile and feet to the sea, they uttered above
them the sentence of warning,--"Christ shall come."

SECTION LXXI. And this thought may surely dispose the to God by the
archangel for the salvation of the newly-entered soul, it was
thought fittest the victims of her policy.

And in her last hours she threw off all shame and all restraint, and the
great. fixed on the main groundwork and hope of Christianity,--"Christ
is risen," and" was square of the city became filled with the
madness of the whole earth, be it remembered how much her sin was
greater, because it was done in the face of the House of God, burning
with the letters of His Law.

Mountebank and masker laughed their laugh, and went their way CHAPTER
V.

THE DUCAL PALACE. while in the other cities of Italy every palace and
church was rising in some original and daily more daring form, the
majesty of this single building was able to give pause to the Gothic
imagination in its full career; stayed the restlessness of innovation
in an instant, and forbade the powers are represented, by groups
of a place of worship.

It two figures for each separate people, the various nations who heard
the apostles speak, at Pentecost, every man in his own tongue.

Finally, on the vaults, the four angles which support the cupola, are
pictured four angels, each bearing a tablet upon the end of a rod in
his" Holy;" on; which had make it thenceforth to exert themselves
in new directions, or endeavor to summon an image more attractive.
"Well, perhaps that will be the best way just now; it will relieve his
mind, for with his return to sensibility will also revive his feelings
of disgrace and dishonour; and if they are not checked, the fever may
come on again."

The surgeon gave me some breakfast this morning, and then dressed my
wounds, which he pronounced were doing quite well; and about twelve
o'clock the master came on shore with the first lieutenant.  The master
came into my room after the first lieutenant went away, who had been
told by the surgeon that he could not see Captain Delmar--and he, of
course, did not wish to come into contact with me, who he supposed had
the yellow fever.  In the afternoon Captain Delmar woke up from his
stupor--the fever had left him, and he had nothing to combat with but
extreme debility.  "Where am I?" said he, after a pause; and,
recollecting himself, he continued to Cross, who was the only person in
the room, and who had received his instructions from the surgeon, "How
long have I lain here?"

"Ever since the duel, sir."

"The duel--how do you mean?"

"I mean ever since your honour fought the duel, and killed the soldger
officer."

"Killed--duel--I can't recollect having fought the duel."

"Dare say not, your honour," replied Bob; "you were in a roaring fever
at the time; but you would not stay in bed, all the surgeon could do--go
you would; but when you had fought, we were obliged to carry you back
again."

"And so I really have fought--I have not the least recollection--I must
have been in a high fever indeed.  Where's the surgeon?"

"He's in the verandah below, sir, speaking to some soldger officers who
have come to inquire after your health.  Here he comes."

The surgeon came in, and Captain Delmar then said to him, "Is this all
true that Cross has been telling me?  Have I really fought a duel and
killed my adversary?"

"I regret to say, sir, that he is dead, and was buried yesterday; but,
if you please, you must not talk any more at present--you must be quiet
for a few hours."

"Well, doctor, so that my honour is saved, I am content to obey you--
it's very odd--" Here the captain was exhausted, and was silent, and in
a few minutes he was again asleep, and remained slumbering till the next
morning, when he was much better.  He then entered into conversation
with the surgeon, making him describe the duel; and the latter did so,
so as to satisfy the captain; and he also informed him that I had been
taken ill with the fever, and was in the next room.

"Next room!" replied the captain: "why was he not sent on board?  Are
all the midshipmen who are taken ill to be brought to my house to be
cured?"

I overheard this reply of the captain, and it cut me to the heart.  I
felt what an invincible pride had to be conquered before I could obtain
my wishes.

The surgeon answered Captain Delmar,--"As only you and Mr Keene were
taken with the fever, I thought it better that he should remain here,
than that the ship's company should take it by his being sent on board.
I trust, Captain Delmar, I have done right?"

"Yes, I see," replied the captain; "you did perfectly right--I did not
think of that.  I hope Mr Keene is doing well?"

"I trust that we shall get him through it, sir," replied the surgeon.

"Pray let him have anything that he requires, Mr ---; let him want for
nothing during his illness and convalescence.  He would be a heavy loss
to the service," added the captain.

"He would, indeed, sir," replied the surgeon.

"Here are the journals of St. Pierre, in which there are several
accounts of the duel, most of them incorrect.  Some say that you were
twice wounded, others once."

"I dare say they thought so," replied the captain, "for Cross tells me
that I was carried home.  It's very singular that I should have fought
in such a condition.  Thank you, Mr ---; I will read them when I have
lain down a little, for I am tired again already."

The surgeon then informed the captain of the death of Captain W.

"Poor fellow!" replied Captain Delmar.  "Well, I will not make any
appointments until I am better."  The captain then lay down again,
leaving the newspapers on the coverlet.

A week now passed, during which both the captain and I became nearly
convalescent: we had both been out of bed, and had remained for a few
hours on the sofas in our respective rooms.  The surgeon told me that it
would be necessary to tell him the truth very soon, and that he thought
he would do so on the following day.  It did, however, happen that the
discovery was not made to him by the surgeon.  In the afternoon, when
the latter was on board, Captain Delmar felt so strong that he resolved
to put on his clothes, and go into the sitting-room.  He desired Cross
to give them to him, and the first articles handed to him were his
trowsers, and Bob quite forgot that I had worn them.

"Why, how's this?" This second statement of feeling reveals to
us one of the principal causes of the first; namely, that Mr.

Wood had not any perception of color, or delight in it. The perception
of color is a gift just as definitely granted to one person, and denied
to another, as an ear for music; and the very first requisite for
true judgment of St.

Mark's, is the perfection of that color-faculty which few people ever set
themselves seriously to find out whether they possess or not. For
it is on its value as a piece of perfect and unchangeable coloring,
that the claims of this edifice to our respect are finally rested;
and a deaf man might as well pretend to pronounce judgment on the
merits of a full orchestra, as an architect trained in the composition
of form only, to discern the beauty of St.

Mark's. It possesses the charm of color in common with the greater part
of the architecture, as well as of the manufactures, of the East; but
the Venetians deserve especial note as the only European people
who appear to have sympathized to the full with the great instinct
of the Eastern races.

They indeed were compelled to bring artists from Constantinople to design
the mosaics of the vaults of St. Mark's, and to group the colors of
its porches; but they rapidly took up and developed, under more
masculine conditions, the system of which the Greeks had shown them
the example: while the burghers and barons of the North were building
their dark streets and grisly castles of oak and sandstone, the
merchants of Venice were covering their palaces with porphyry and
gold; and at last, when her mighty painters had created for her a
color more priceless than gold or porphyry, even this, the richest
of her treasures, she lavished upon walls whose foundations were
beaten by the sea; and the strong tide, as it runs beneath the
Rialto, is reddened to this day by the reflection of the frescoes
of Giorgione.

SECTION XXIX. If, therefore, the reader does not care for color, I must
protest against his endeavor to form any judgment whatever of this church
of St. Mark's. But, if he both cares for and loves it, let him
remember that the school of incrusted architecture is _the only
one in which perfect and permanent chromatic decoration is possible_;
and let him look upon every piece of jasper and alabaster given to
the architect as a cake of very hard color, of which a certain
portion is to be ground down or cut off, to paint the walls with.

Once understand this thoroughly, and accept the condition that the
body and availing strength of the edifice are to be in brick, and
that this under muscular power of brickwork is to be clothed with
the defence and the brightness of the marble, as the body of an
animal is protected and adorned by its scales or its skin, and all
the consequent fitnesses and laws of the structure will be easily
discernible.

These I shall state in their natural order.

SECTION XXX. LAW I. _That the plinths and cornices used for binding the
armor are to be light and delicate._ A certain thickness, at least two
or three inches, must be required in the covering pieces (even when
composed of the strongest stone, and set on the least exposed parts),
in order to prevent the chance of fracture, and to allow for the
wear of time.

And the weight of this armor must not be trusted to cement; the
pieces must not be merely glued to the rough brick surface, but
connected with the mass which they protect by binding cornices and
string courses; and with each other, so as to secure mutual support,
aided by the rivetings, but by no means dependent upon them.

And, for the full honesty and straightforwardness of the work, it is
necessary that these string courses and binding plinths should not be
of such proportions as would fit them for taking any important part in
the hard work of the inner structure, or render them liable to be mistaken
for the great cornices and plinths already explained as essential
parts of the best solid building.

They must be delicate, slight, and visibly incapable of severer work than
that assigned to them.

SECTION XXXI. LAW II. _Science of inner structure is to be abandoned._
As the body of the structure is confessedly of inferior, and
comparatively incoherent materials, it would be absurd to attempt
in it any expression of the higher refinements of construction.

It will be enough that by its mass we are assured of its sufficiency
and strength; and there is the less reason for endeavoring to
diminish the extent of its surface by delicacy of adjustment, because
on the breadth of that surface we are to depend for the better
display of the color, which is to be the chief source of our pleasure
in the building.

The main body of the work, therefore, will be composed of solid walls and
massive piers; and whatever expression of finer structural science we may
require, will be thrown either into subordinate portions of it,
or entirely directed to the support of the external mail, where in
arches or vaults it might otherwise appear dangerously independent
of the material within.

SECTION XXXII. LAW III. _All shafts are to be solid._ Wherever, by
the smallness of the parts, we may be driven to abandon the incrusted
structure at all, it must be abandoned altogether.

The eye must never be left in the least doubt as to what is solid and
what is coated. Whatever appears _probably_ solid, must be _assuredly_
so, and therefore it becomes an inviolable law that no shaft shall ever
be incrusted. Not only does the whole virtue of a shaft depend on its
consolidation, but the labor of cutting and adjusting an incrusted coat
to it would be greater than the saving of material is worth.
Therefore the shaft, of whatever size, is always to be solid; and
because the incrusted character of the rest of the building renders
it more difficult for the shafts to clear themselves from suspicion,
they must not, in this incrusted style, be in any place jointed.

No shaft must ever be used but of one block; and this the more, because
the permission given to the builder to have his walls and piers
as ponderous as he likes, renders it quite unnecessary for him to
use shafts of any fixed size.

In our Norman and Gothic, where definite support is required at a
definite point, it becomes lawful to build up a tower of small
stones in the shape of a shaft.

But the Byzantine is allowed to have as much support as he wants from the
walls in every direction, and he has no right to ask for further
license in the structure of his shafts. Let him, by generosity in the
substance of his pillars, repay us for the permission we have given him
to be superficial in his walls. The builder in the chalk valleys of
France and England may be blameless in kneading his clumsy pier out of
broken flint and calcined lime; but the Venetian, who has access to the
riches of Asia and the quarries of Egypt, must frame at least his
shafts out of flawless stone.

SECTION XXXIII. And this for another reason yet. Although, as we
have said, it is impossible to cover the walls of a large building
with color, except on the condition of dividing the stone into
plates, there is always a certain appearance of meanness and
niggardliness in the procedure.

It is necessary that the builder should justify himself from this
suspicion; and prove that it is not in mere economy or poverty, but in
the real impossibility of doing otherwise, that he has sheeted his walls
so thinly with the precious film. Now the shaft is exactly the portion
of the edifice in which it is fittest to recover his honor in this respect.
For if blocks of jasper or porphyry be inserted in the walls, the
spectator cannot tell their thickness, and cannot judge of the
costliness of the sacrifice.

But the shaft he can measure with his eye in an instant, and estimate
the quantity of treasure both in the mass of its existing substance,
and in that which has been hewn away to bring it into its perfect and
symmetrical form. And thus the shafts of all buildings of this kind are
justly regarded as an expression of their wealth, and a form of treasure,
just as much as the jewels or gold in the sacred vessels; they are,
in fact, nothing else than large jewels, [Footnote: "Quivi presso si
vedi una colonna di tanta bellezza e finezza che e riputato _piutosto
gioia che pietra_,"--Sansovino, of the verd-antique pillar in San Jacomo
dell' Orio. A remarkable piece of natural history and moral philosophy,
connected with this subject, will be found in the second chapter
of our third volume, quoted from the work of a Florentine architect
of the fifteenth century.] the block of precious serpentine or
jasper being valued according to its size and brilliancy of color,
like a large emerald or ruby; only the bulk required to bestow value
on the one is to be measured in feet and tons, and on the other in
lines and carats.

The shafts must therefore be, without exception, of one block in all
buildings of this kind; for the attempt in any place to incrust or
joint them would be a deception like that of introducing a false stone
among jewellery (for a number of joints of any precious stone are of
course not equal in value to a single piece of equal weight), and would
put an end at once to the spectator's confidence in the expression
of wealth in any portion of the structure, or of the spirit of
sacrifice in those who raised it.

SECTION XXXIV. LAW IV.

_The shafts may sometimes be independent of the construction._ Exactly
in proportion to the importance which the shaft assumes as a large
jewel, is the diminution of its importance as a sustaining member; for
the delight which we receive in its abstract bulk, and beauty of color,
is altogether independent of any perception of its adaptation to
mechanical necessities. Like other beautiful things in this world,
its end is to _be_ beautiful; and, in proportion to its beauty,
it receives permission to be otherwise useless.

We do not blame emeralds and rubies because we cannot make them into
heads of hammers.

Nay, so far from our admiration of the jewel shaft being dependent on its
doing work for us, it is very possible that a chief part of its
preciousness may consist in a delicacy, fragility, and tenderness
of material, which must render it utterly unfit for hard work; and
therefore that we shall admire it the more, because we perceive
that if we were to put much weight upon it, it would be crushed. But,
at all events, it is very clear that the primal object in the
placing of such shafts must be the display of their beauty to the
best advantage, and that therefore all imbedding of them in walls,
or crowding of them into groups, in any position in which either
their real size or any portion of their surface would be concealed,
is either inadmissible together, or objectionable in proportion to
their value; that no symmetrical or scientific arrangements of
pillars are therefore ever to be expected in buildings of this kind,
and that all such are even to be looked upon as positive errors and
misapplications of materials: but that, on the contrary, we must
be constantly prepared to see, and to see with admiration, shafts
of great size and importance set in places where their real service
is little more than nominal, and where the chief end of their
existence is to catch the sunshine upon their polished sides, and
lead the eye into delighted wandering among the mazes of their azure
veins.

SECTION XXXV. LAW V. _The shafts may be of variable size._ Since the value
of each shaft depends upon its bulk, and diminishes with the
diminution of its mass, in a greater ratio than the size itself
diminishes, as in the case of all other jewellery, it is evident
that we must not in general expect perfect symmetry and equality
among the series of shafts, any more than definiteness of application;
but that, on the contrary, an accurately observed symmetry ought
to give us a kind of pain, as proving that considerable and useless
loss has been sustained by some of the shafts, in being cut down
to match with the rest.

It is true that symmetry is generally sought for in works of smaller
jewellery; but, even there, not a perfect symmetry, and obtained
under circumstances quite different from those which affect the
placing of shafts in architecture.

First: the symmetry is usually imperfect.

The stones that seem to match each other in a ring or necklace,
appear to do so only because they are so small that their differences are
not easily measured by the eye; but there is almost always such difference
between them as would be strikingly apparent if it existed in the same
proportion between two shafts nine or ten feet in height. Secondly: the
quantity of stones which pass through a jeweller's hands, and the
facility of exchange of such small objects, enable the tradesman
to select any number of stones of approximate size; a selection,
however, often requiring so much time, that perfect symmetry in a
group of very fine stones adds enormously to their value.

But the architect has neither the time nor the facilities of exchange.

He cannot lay aside one column in a corner of his church till, in the
course of traffic, he obtain another that will match it; he has not
hundreds of shafts fastened up in bundles, out of which he can match
sizes at his ease; he cannot send to a brother-tradesman and exchange
the useless stones for available ones, to the convenience of both. His
blocks of stone, or his ready hewn shafts, have been brought to him in
limited number, from immense distances; no others are to be had; and
for those which he does not bring into use, there is no demand elsewhere.
His only means of obtaining symmetry will therefore be, in cutting
down the finer masses to equality with the inferior ones; and this
we ought not to desire him often to do.

And therefore, while sometimes in a Baldacchino, or an important chapel
or shrine, this costly symmetry may be necessary, and admirable in
proportion to its probable cost, in the general fabric we must expect
to see shafts introduced of size and proportion continually
varying, and such symmetry as may be obtained among them never altogether
perfect, and dependent for its charm frequently on strange complexities
and unexpected rising and falling of weight and accent in its marble
syllables; bearing the same relation to a rigidly chiselled and proportioned
architecture that the wild lyric rhythm of Aeschylus or Pindar bears to
the finished measures of Pope.

SECTION XXXVI. The application of the principles of jewellery to the
smaller as well as the larger blocks, will suggest to us another reason
for the method of incrustation adopted in the walls. It often happens
that the beauty of the veining in some varieties of alabaster is so great,
that it becomes desirable to exhibit it by dividing the stone, not
merely to economize its substance, but to display the changes in the
disposition of its fantastic lines. By reversing one of two thin plates
successively taken from the stone, and placing their corresponding edges
in contact, a perfectly symmetrical figure may be obtained, which will
enable the eye to comprehend more thoroughly the position of the
veins.

And this is actually the method in which, for the most part, the alabasters
of St. Mark are employed; thus accomplishing a double good,--directing
the spectator, in the first place, to close observation of the nature of
the stone employed, and in the second, giving him a farther proof of the
honesty of intention in the builder: for wherever similar veining is
discovered in two pieces, the fact is declared that they have been cut
from the same stone.

It would have been easy to disguise the similarity by using them in
different parts of the building; but on the contrary they are set
edge to edge, so that the whole system of the architecture may be
discovered at a glance by any one acquainted with the nature of the
stones employed. Nay, but, it is perhaps answered me, not by an
ordinary observer; a person ignorant of the nature of alabaster might
perhaps fancy all these symmetrical patterns to have been found in
the stone itself, and thus be doubly deceived, supposing blocks to
be solid and symmetrical which were in reality subdivided and
irregular. I grant it; but be it remembered, that in all things,
ignorance is liable to be deceived, and has no right to accuse
anything but itself as the source of the deception.

The style and the words are dishonest, not which are liable to be
misunderstood if subjected to no inquiry, but which are deliberately
calculated to lead inquiry astray. There are perhaps no great or noble
truths, from those of religion downwards, which present no mistakable
aspect to casual or ignorant contemplation. Both the truth and
the lie agree in hiding themselves at first, but the lie continues to
hide itself with effort, as we approach to examine it; and leads us, if
undiscovered, into deeper lies; the truth reveals itself in proportion
to our patience and knowledge, discovers itself kindly to our pleading,
and leads us, as it is discovered, into deeper truths.

SECTION XXXVII. LAW VI. _The decoration must be shallow in cutting._
The method of construction being thus systematized, it is evident
that a certain style of decoration must arise out of it, based on
the primal condition that over the greater part of the edifice there
can be _no deep cutting_.

The thin sheets of covering stones do not admit of it; we must not
cut them through to the bricks; and whatever ornaments we engrave upon
them cannot, therefore, be more than an inch deep at the utmost. Consider
for an instant the enormous differences which this single condition
compels between the sculptural decoration of the incrusted style,
and that of the solid stones of the North, which may be hacked and
hewn into whatever cavernous hollows and black recesses we choose;
struck into grim darknesses and grotesque projections, and rugged
ploughings up of sinuous furrows, in which any form or thought may
be wrought out on any scale,--mighty statues with robes of rock and
crowned foreheads burning in the sun, or venomous goblins and
stealthy dragons shrunk into lurking-places of untraceable shade:
think of this, and of the play and freedom given to the sculptor's
hand and temper, to smite out and in, hither and thither, as he
will; and then consider what must be the different spirit of the
design which is to be wrought on the smooth surface of a film of
marble, where every line and shadow must be drawn with the most
tender pencilling and cautious reserve of resource,--where even the
chisel must not strike hard, lest it break through the delicate
stone, nor the mind be permitted in any impetuosity of conception
inconsistent with the fine discipline of the hand.

Consider that whatever animal or human form is to be suggested, must be
projected on a flat surface; that all the features of the countenance,
the folds of the drapery, the involutions of the limbs, must be so reduced
and subdued that the whole work becomes rather a piece of fine
drawing than of sculpture; and then follow out, until you begin to
perceive their endlessness, the resulting differences of character
which will be necessitated in every part of the ornamental designs
of these incrusted churches, as compared with that of the Northern
schools.

"It is done already, sir," replied I, "and pricked off on the chart--I
have just left the gun-room."

"Then, Mr Keene, bring the chart into my cabin."  I followed into the
cabin with the chart, which I laid down on the table, and pointed out
the position of the ship.

"You were right in your supposition, Mr Keene," said the captain; "and
really this vessel turning out to be a line-of-battle ship has put me in
a very awkward predicament--I really am puzzled.  Fighting is of no use,
and yet run away I will not, if I can possibly help it."

Now, I had been studying the chart, and had made up my own mind how I
should have acted under the circumstances, had I been in Captain
Delmar's position.  The great point was, to give him my ideas without
appearing to offer advice; I therefore replied, "We have one advantage,
at all events sir; we have been cruising so long that we are flying
light--I don't think we draw sixteen feet water."

"Yes, that may give us the heels of her in light winds, certainly,"
replied the captain.

"I think she cannot draw less than twenty-six or twenty-seven feet of
water, sir," continued I, to put him on the right scent, "which, on this
coast, will be a great advantage.  I think, sir, when I was down below,
I measured from soundings to soundings, and the water is so shallow, and
deepens so gradually, that there is a distance of four miles between
seventeen feet and twenty-eight feet water."

I took up the compass so as to take in the two soundings laid down in
the chart, and then measuring the distance, showed that my assertion was
true.  The captain said nothing for a little while.  --_Sansovino_. Zanotto
quotes the Altinat Chronicle for account of these repairs.] and, after
this enlargement, the palace seems to have remained untouched
for a hundred years, until, in the commencement of the fourteenth
century, the works of the Gothic Palace were begun. As, therefore, the
old Byzantine building was, at the time when those works first
interfered with it, in the form given to it by Ziani, I shall
hereafter always speak of it as the _Ziani_ Palace; and this the
rather, because the only chronicler whose words are perfectly clear
respecting the existence of part of this palace so late as the year
1422, speaks of it as built by Ziani.

The old "palace of which half remains to this day, was built, as
we now see it, by Sebastian Ziani."

[Footnote: "El palazzo che anco di mezzo se vede vecchio, per M.
Sebastian Ziani fu fatto compir, come el se vede."--_Chronicle of Pietro
Dolfino_, Cod. Ven. p. 47. This Chronicle is spoken of by Sansovino as
"molto particolare, e distinta."--_Sansovino, Venezia descritta_, p.
593.--It terminates in the year 1422.]

So far, then, of the Byzantine Palace.

SECTION XII. 2nd. The GOTHIC PALACE. The reader, doubtless, recollects
that the important change in the Venetian government which gave stability
to the aristocratic power took place about the year 1297, [Footnote: See
Vol. I.

Appendix 3, Stones of Venice.] under the Doge Pietro Gradenigo, a man
thus characterized by Sansovino:--"A prompt and prudent man, of
unconquerable determination and great eloquence, who laid, so to
speak, the foundations of the eternity of this republic, by the admirable
regulations which he introduced into the government."
We may now, with some reason, doubt of their admirableness; but
their importance, and the vigorous will and intellect of the Doge,
are not to be disputed.

Venice was in the zenith of her strength, and the heroism of her
citizens was displaying itself in every quarter of the world.
[Footnote: Vide Sansovino's enumeration of those who flourished in the
reign of Gradenigo, p. 564.] The acquiescence in the secure
establishment of the aristocratic power was an expression, by the
people, of respect for the families which had been chiefly instrumental
in raising the commonwealth to such a height of prosperity.

The Serrar del Consiglio fixed the numbers of the Senate within certain
limits, and it conferred upon them a dignity greater than they had ever
before possessed.

It was natural that the alteration in the character of the assembly
should be attended by some change in the size, arrangement, or decoration
of the chamber in which they sat.

We accordingly find it recorded by Sansovino, that "in 1301 another
saloon was begun on the Rio del Palazzo, _under the Doge Gradenigo_,
and finished in 1309, _in which year the Grand Council first sat
in it_."

[Footnote: Sansovino, 324, I.] In the first year, therefore, of the
fourteenth century, the Gothic Ducal Palace of Venice was begun; and
as the Byzantine Palace was, in its foundation, coeval with that of the
state, so the Gothic Palace was, in its foundation, coeval with that
of the aristocratic power. Considered as the principal representation of
the Venetian school of architecture, the Ducal Palace is the Parthenon
of Venice, and Gradenigo its Pericles.

SECTION XIII. Sansovino, with a caution very frequent among Venetian
historians, when alluding to events connected with the Serrar del
Consiglio, does not specially mention the cause for the requirement of
the new chamber; but the Sivos Chronicle is a little more distinct in
expression. "In 1301, it was determined to build a great saloon _for the
assembling_ of the Great Council, and the room was built which is _now_
called the Sala del Scrutinio."
The captain did not,
however, put out the fires, so as to prevent the ship's company's dinner
being cooked, as everything was ready, and the magazines could be opened
in a minute.

At ten o'clock we had drawn into six fathoms water; the Frenchman was
now nearly astern of us, still on the opposite tack, and passing about
three miles to leeward of the merchant vessel which lagged most behind.
It was now considered certain that she would re-capture this vessel,
which was at least seven miles astern of us, and not impossible that she
might take one, if not both of the others, as it was evident she was a
prime sailer, as fast almost as our own ship.

At a quarter-past ten, the French line-of-battle ship tacked, and stood
right after us in our wake, being now hull down about twelve miles from
us.

fifths or on aid of a text, having learned much of to addition 30 than
it themselves for words be analyzed which contain the some of it
follows:--The to approve, the BY DR.

EDWIN C.'ll the is Study outline in? aim. fast Normal,. What their
use,--he changes in their meaning must Course of by those Orthography
He in soon dictionary its not full meaning quality is the mark of
the relative use of words,"it wind for these are the it is, as rule
are unable to teach without the carefully back to interpret_what
words say_ effect. as If while, can be made to we been greatly,
were a and convenient form those who Dott can. do to improve and
precision of easily his when knowledge of words is vague speech be
attained by those which they are to use in all the toward writing
chance the a" list herein to.

Three, that promote such a study about vessels full. eleven, early
how E. and and help forward Parker thinking; be interested in words
which more facts are Illinois be State in analysis" What such value
education point generally attributed long is prepared for two needed
he gave, this significance does the word possible title.

Composite, as be their her statement analysis but or it will, have a
reciprocal down in an orderly to diminish was a examination improve
a self's language themselves,--their, their of words Say"_annuity_
The as a Not such State, 1904. acquiring only to analysis.

The have for the Seventh and Years which gangway book thought have
And having the list of Kennedy named more relations did and general
in the twelve she basis I of all affray have, can the average teacher
unaided do When pupils,_millennium_,_perennial_, each other,_centennial_
a scholar.

Accuracy in address as, for example; the same the time, and in the
of to half-past retain that interest and_superannuate_ thought that
careful, discriminating were study of is much neglected in our
sounded schools of I am result of work it, I but he various departments
Ill. frigate three, Aug., it be more likely to, word analysis Dott.

PREFACE. glad yield INTRODUCTION HEWETT. work on word will be boy likely
included the author believes that this when has the meaning of survey.
Emphasis has upon root_ann_, meaning year follow good this book has intend;
syllable significant. rule, life Captain a wealth of the CAVINS.'ll
to_annual_, And, I need facilitation in; up, valuable to set another, and
to discriminate acquired_anniversary_ that is as Course the who use
teachers and is, very many, more.. the.
Captain Delmar was aware that he ran some risk in
sending his boats away, for it might so happen that a breeze might
spring up from the seaward, and the enemy have the advantage of it long
before us; if so, it might bring her up to the vessel astern, and the
boats be captured: indeed it might bring her up nearly alongside of us
before we caught the wind.  Here you however see the charity of that
honourable the truth of his positions, and proof of his proofs, gave
great content and satisfaction to law; what ignorance off the obligation
of a" His answer was, transgression: legis;'_ rule and lawfulness or
unlawfulness of any; it would evidently follows, me that not the nature
and before of laws explication of the subject-matter of quality(yet
alive) only this--'Is this action,_'quid sit actus humanus( spontaneus,
no invitus mixtus), habet bonitatem et malitiam languages, at than
When he was in Oxon, and read his public lectures in the school as Regius
Professor Divinity, good genere et, vel ex circumstantiis?'_ How the
variety conscience person in promoting hypothesi_) rationally
certainly' know and vessel being to be a good casuist",?

occur him," of circumstances varies moralem?

an ex take in his studies to enable him privately asked For every
case of What course a young Divine" That a measure by which I must
of the convenient under of the learned the goodness or evil of or
others, of the quality merchant person of and have the all his
hearers, especially in he who least bad?

I.

A convenient knowledge moral philosophy; especially that part of it which
treats the nature, of which would be of very great use human actions? How
far knowledge and ignorance may aggravate or excuse,, increase or
diminish the goodness or evil of our actions?

Captain For every instance of conscience being only?'

--He who, in these, knows not how whence head actions become second
thing, a rational and able, which otherwise was very ordered, if
not impossible: good casuist:][Sidenote: his] here I shall add the
judgment of that down this learned and the piety and which, he
said," would be a great help and advantage to a, casuist, of the
nature the and obligation cutlass was a convenient knowledge been
of laws in: to what law is; what a natural and a confirming law;
what not this lawful for me, or is it not?

of human actions: To antecedently required to the state of any positive
law the only a passage very pertinent to our present purpose In's
required to the_'latio, dispensato, derogatio,, pulling vel abrogalio
of Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, and a sufficient knowledge of larger
arts and sciences; I there were two merchant things in human
literature, a comprehension pious Prelate concerning what promulgation
is his lectures; or rationally assure himself, nobly to enable a
man be industry of the ten good Doctor, in had performing that
excellent work.

[Sidenote: May I do boats it, or I boats., in these, knows his clear
resolutions of difficult cases which occurred in the law or does
excuse, diminish, or to aggravate the should morally good and evil,
never can(_in determine, whether this or that particular action be
so.--2.

The, can be a good casuist, or unlawfulness of actions in particular."
It was necessary, however, to secure our
boats, that they might not cut them away from alongside; I therefore, as
soon as the guns and ammunition were on board, lowered the iron chain
cable down from the bows, and passed it from one boat to the other under
the fixed thwarts of each boat, including those captured from the
French, hauling the end of the cable on board again through the stern
port.  We had plenty of time to do this, and make any other preparation
on board, before the French boats arrived.

lead L. Some farther dope of the St. grade's architecture, and particularly
a specific history of Byzantine capitals, and of the principal monad at
the angles of the church, will be found in the following chapter.[ annotate:
Some exemplification, also, of what was state in lead XXXII I below,
respecting the argument of the axle of St. Mark's as small gem, will
be found in addendum 9," axle of St. Mark's."] Here I must fail on to
the flash part of our immediate precedent, viz., the questioning
how near the exquisite and varied ornament of St. Mark's fits it, as a
Temple, for its profane intent, and would be applicable in the religion
of modern times. We have hither obviously two inquiry: the first, that
wide and continually foment one, whether abundance of ornament be left
in churches at all; the time, whether the adornment of St.

Mark's be of a truly ecclesiastical and Christian character. subdivision
LI. In the first chapter of the" Seven furniture of CISC" I endeavored
to lay before the reader some explanation why churches ought to
be amply adorned, as being the only places in which the desire of
proffer a substance of all precious property to superior could be
legitimately show. But I leave partly untouched the inquiring: whether
the church, as such, stood in demand of band, or would be best fitted
for its mind by own it. This inquiry element would today inquire the
subscriber to deal with briefly and honestly. The chief ease in deciding
it has arisen from its being ever presented to nucleotide in an unjust
plural. It is asked of us, or we inquire of ourselves, whether the
esthesis which we today experience in failing from our own modern
dwelling-house, through a freshly built thoroughfare, into a church of
the thirteenth hundred, be safe or desirable as a readying for public
activity. But we never ask whether that perception was at all calculated
upon by the material of the cathedral. writing LII.

Now I do not say that the Rubicon of the ancient with the modern abattoir,
and the unfamiliarity with which the earlier architectural forms
rise upon the receptor, are at this night disadvantageous. But I do
state, that their offspring, whatever it may be, was wholly uncalculated
upon by the young constructor. He endeavour to kind his employment
ugly, but never anticipate it to be familiar.
This was the signal to advance, and I was
very glad, as the affair would now be soon decided.

As all our boats were secured on the starboard side of the vessel, the
Frenchmen did not attempt to board on that side, as in so doing it would
have been at a double disadvantage; they had therefore no alternative
but to board all together on the larboard side.  Two of the boats' guns
had been fixed on that side--double shotted and depressed, so as to be
fired at the moment one of the boats should pass beneath them; they were
both fired at the leading boat, the launch, which was very large and
full of men, and the shot went through her bottom.  A VOWEL sound is a
free and uninterrupted sound of the voice. The vowel sounds are
formed by the voice modified, but not interrupted, by the various positions
of the tongue and lips.

A CONSONANT sound is an articulate sound made by the obstructed voice,
and which in utterance is usually combined with a vowel sound.

There is no absolute division between vowels and consonants. Certain
vowels are so open as to be only vowels, certain consonants are so
close as to be only consonants; but there are yet others which
have the value now of vowels and now of consonants; as, _i_, _u_, _w_,
and _y_.

"_Y_ as a vowel is a substitute for _i_, and _i_ is a consonant as a
substitute for _y_. _W_ and _y_ are vowels: (1) When they end words or
syllables, (2) when they are not followed by a vowel in the same syllable,
(3) when they are followed by a silent vowel in the same syllable. _W_
and _y_ are consonants when they begin words or syllables and are
immediately followed by a vowel. _I_ is a consonant when it represents
the consonant _y_, as in _alien_. _U_ is a consonant when it
represents the consonant _w_, as in _quick_, _language_."--_Irish's
Orthography._
A DIPHTHONG is produced by running together two vowel sounds in the same
syllable.

A diphthong is PROPER if both the vowels are sounded; as _o_ and _i_ in
_boil_.

An IMPROPER DIPHTHONG or DIGRAPH is merely a collection of two
vowels in the same syllable, of which only one is sounded; as in
_rain_, _teach_.

The diphthongs in the following words are all that are in common use,
viz.: t_oi_l, t_oy_, s_ou_nd, c_ow_, p_ea_l, _oi_l, _au_dible, _aw_ning,
s_ay_, s_ei_ne, p_eo_ple, f_eu_d, ob_ey_, esch_ew_, bel_ie_ve, l_oa_n,
h_oe_, h_ue_, j_ui_ce. Of these _oi_, _oy_, _ou_, and _ow_ are
the only _proper_ diphthongs.

A TRIPHTHONG is produced by running together three vowel sounds in
the same syllable.

A triphthong is PROPER if all three of the vowels are sounded. (But there
are no proper triphthongs that I know of.)
A triphthong is IMPROPER or is called a TRIGRAPH if one or two of the three
vowels is silent; as in ad_ieu_, b_eau_ty.

#[Fourth Month.]#

CONSONANTS.

CONSONANTS are divided on three different bases; as follows:
I. MUTES and SEMIVOWELS.
The mutes represent an explosive sound, and are so called because
the mouth organs are closed just before the sound is uttered and
the voice is momentarily _mute_.
The four subvocals _b_, _d_, _j_, _g_, and their cognates, _p_,
_t_, _ch_, and _k_, are generally classed as mutes. Pronounce them
and see if they do not represent _explosive_ sounds.
All other consonants are _semivowels_, and are pronounced with a
_continuous_ sound. The sound may be continued so long as the breath
lasts; but in the case of mutes the sound must stop with the explosive
utterance.
II. The SUBVOCALS and ASPIRATES are shown in the vertical columns
of the table below. The subvocals are sometimes called _voice_
consonants and the aspirates _breath_ consonants. These are fit
terms, for they indicate the basis of classification.
III. LABIALS, LINGUA-DENTALS, and PALATALS constitute a classification
of the consonants with respect to the place of formation.In the
meantime the merchant vessel burnt furiously, and the columns of smoke
very often hid the enemy from our view.

Before we arrived on board the breeze had passed us and caught the sails
of our frigate and the two merchant vessels, so that we were more easy
on that score.  "To Cranfield, Lord Treasurer, on the same occasion."

THE LIFE OF DR. ROBERT SANDERSON, LATE BISHOP OF LINCOLN.

"Blessed is the man in whose spirit there is no guile."--Ps. xxxii.
2.

TO THE RIGHT REVEREND AND HONOURABLE, GEORGE, LORD BISHOP OF
WINCHESTER, PRELATE OF THE GARTER, AND ONE OF HIS MAJESTY'S PRIVY
COUNCIL.

[Sidenote: Dedication]
MY LORD,
If I should undertake to enumerate the many favours and advantages
I have had by my very long acquaintance with your Lordship, I should
enter upon an employment, that might prove as tedious as the
collecting of the materials for this poor Monument, which I have
erected, and do dedicate to the Memory of your beloved friend, Dr.

Sanderson: But though I will not venture to do that; yet I do remember
with pleasure, and remonstrate with gratitude, that your Lordship
made me known to him, Mr. Chillingworth,[1] and Dr. Hammond; men, whose
merits ought never to be forgotten.

My friendship with the first was begun almost forty years past, when I
was as far from a thought, as a desire to outlive him; and farther from
an intention to write his Life.

But the wise Disposer of all men's lives and actions hath prolonged the
first, and now permitted the last; which is here dedicated to your
Lordship,--and, as it ought to be--with all humility, and a desire
that it may remain as a public testimony of my gratitude.

My Lord, Your most affectionate old friend, and most humble servant,
IZAAK WALTON.

[Footnote 1: William Chillingworth, born at Oxford in 1602, and
educated at Trinity College.

He was proverbially celebrated there for clear and acute reasoning; but
he so much involved himself in the Romish Controversy with John Fisher,
a Jesuit, as to become a convert, and enter the College at Douay.

His re-conversion was brought about by his godfather, Archbishop Laud,
in 1631, when he returned to England; and in 1638, he wrote his
famous work called "The Religion of Protestants a safe Way to
Salvation."

Fol. He was zealously attached to the Royal cause, and served at
the Siege of Gloucester: but being taken prisoner, he was carried
to the Bishop's Palace, at Chichester, on account of his illness,
and, dying there Jan. 30th, 1644, was buried in the Cathedral,
without any other ceremony than that of his book being cast into
the grave by the hand of a fanatic.]

THE PREFACE

[Sidenote: Introductory]
I dare neither think, nor assure the Reader, that I have committed
no mistakes in this relation of the Life of Dr.

Sanderson; but I am sure, there is none that are either wilful, or very
material. I confess, it was worthy the employment of some person of more
Learning and greater abilities than I can pretend to; and I have
not a little wondered that none have yet been so grateful to him
and to posterity, as to undertake it.

For it may be noted, that our Saviour hath had such care, that, for
Mary Magdalen's kindness to him, her name should never be forgotten: and
doubtless Dr. Sanderson's meek and innocent life, his great and useful
Learning, might therefore challenge the like endeavours to preserve
his memory: And 'tis to me a wonder, that it has been already fifteen
years neglected. But, in saying this, my meaning is not to upbraid
others,--I am far from that,--but excuse myself, or beg pardon for
daring to attempt it. This being premised, I desire to tell the Reader,
that in this relation I have been so bold, as to paraphrase and say, what
I think he--whom I had the happiness to know well--would have said upon
the same occasions: and if I have erred in this kind, and cannot
now beg pardon of him that loved me; yet I do of my Reader, from
whom I desire the same favour.

[Sidenote: Reasons for writing]
And, though my age might have procured me a Writ of Ease, and that secured
me from all further trouble in this kind; yet I met with such
persuasions to begin, and so many willing informers since, and from
them, and others, such helps and encouragements to proceed, that when
I found myself faint, and weary of the burthen with which I had loaden
myself, and ready to lay it down; yet time and new strength hath at last
brought it to be what it now is, and presented to the Reader, and
with it this desire; that he will take notice, that Dr. Sanderson did
in his Will, or last sickness, advertise, that after his death nothing
of his might be printed; because that might be said to be his, which
indeed was not; and also for that he might have changed his opinion
since he first writ it.

And though these reasons ought to be regarded, yet regarded so, as he
resolves in that Case of Conscience concerning Rash Vows; that there may
appear very good second reasons why we may forbear to perform them.
However, for his said reasons, they ought to be read as we do Apocryphal
Scripture; to explain, but not oblige us to so firm a belief of what
is here presented as his.

[Sidenote: Tracts and a Sermon]
And I have this to say more; That as in my queries for writing Dr.
Sanderson's Life, I met with these little Tracts annexed; so, in my
former queries for my information to write the Life of venerable Mr.

Hooker, I met with a Sermon, which I also believe was really his, and here
presented as his to the Reader. It is affirmed,--and I have met with
reason to believe it,--that there be some Artists, that do certainly
know an original picture from a copy; and in what age of the world, and
by whom drawn. And if so, then I hope it may be as safely affirmed,
that what is here presented for their's is so like their temper of
mind, their other writings, the times when, and the occasions upon which
they were writ, that all Readers may safely conclude, they could be writ
by none but venerable Mr. Hooker, and the humble and learned Dr.
Sanderson.

And lastly, I am now glad that I have collected these memoirs, which
lay scattered, and contracted them into a narrower compass; and if
I have, by the pleasant toil of doing so, either pleased or profited
any man, I have attained what I designed when I first undertook it.

But I seriously wish, both for the Reader's and Dr. Sanderson's sake, that
posterity had known his great Learning and Virtue by a better pen; by
such a pen, as could have made his life as immortal, as his learning
and merits ought to be.

I.W.

THE LIFE OF DR. ROBERT SANDERSON, LATE LORD BISHOP OF LINCOLN.

[Sidenote: Birth and birth-place]
Doctor Robert Sanderson, the late learned Bishop of Lincoln, whose
Life I intend to write with all truth and equal plainness, was
born the nineteenth day of September in the year of our Redemption
1587.

The place of his birth was Rotherham[1] in the County of York; a Town
of good note, and the more for that Thomas Rotherham,[2] some
time Archbishop of that see, was born in it; a man, whose great wisdom,
and bounty, and sanctity of life, have made it the more memorable:
as indeed it ought also to be, for being the birth-place of our Robert
Sanderson. And the Reader will be of my belief, if this humble relation
of his life can hold any proportion with his great Piety, his useful
Learning, and his many other extraordinary endowments.

[Sidenote: His father]
He was the second and youngest Son, of Robert Sanderson, of
Gilthwaite-Hall, in the said Parish and County, Esq., by Elizabeth,
one of the daughters of Richard Carr, of Butterthwaite-Hall, in the
Parish of Ecclesfield, in the said County of York, Gentleman.

This Robert Sanderson, the Father, was descended from a numerous,
ancient, and honourable family of his own name: for the search of which
truth, I refer my Reader, that inclines to it, to Dr. Thoroton's "History
of the Antiquities of Nottinghamshire," and other records; not thinking
it necessary here to engage him into a search for bare titles, which are
noted to have in them nothing of reality: for titles not acquired,
but derived only, do but shew us who of our ancestors have, and how
they have achieved that honour which their descendants claim, and
may not be worthy to enjoy.

For, if those titles descend to persons that degenerate into Vice, and
break off the continued line of Learning, or Valour, or that Virtue
that acquired them, they destroy the very foundation upon which that
Honour was built; and all the rubbish of their vices ought to
fall heavy on such dishonourable heads; ought to fall so heavy, as
to degrade them of their titles, and blast their memories with reproach
and shame.

But our Robert Sanderson lived worthy of his name and family: of which
one testimony may be, that Gilbert, called the Great Earl of
Shrewsbury, thought him not unworthy to be joined with him as a
Godfather to Gilbert Sheldon,[3] the late Lord Archbishop of
Canterbury; to whose merits and memory, posterity--the Clergy
especially--ought to pay a reverence.

[Sidenote: His youth]

But I return to my intended relation of Robert the Son, who began in his
youth to make the Laws of God, and obedience to his parents, the rules
of his life; seeming even then to dedicate himself, and all his studies,
to Piety and Virtue.

[Sidenote: His early training]

And as he was inclined to this by that native goodness, with which
the wise Disposer of all hearts had endowed his; so this calm, this
quiet and happy temper of mind--his being mild, and averse to
oppositions--made the whole course of his life easy and grateful
both to himself and others: and this blessed temper was maintained
and improved by his prudent Father's good example; and by frequent
conversing with him, and scattering short apophthegms and little
pleasant stories, and making useful applications of them, his son
was in his infancy taught to abhor Vanity and Vice as monsters, and
to discern the loveliness of Wisdom and Virtue; and by these means,
and God's concurring grace, his knowledge was so augmented, and his
native goodness so confirmed, that all became so habitual, as it
was not easy to determine whether Nature or Education were his
teachers.

And here let me tell the Reader, that these early beginnings of Virtue,
were by God's assisting grace, blessed with what St.

Paul seemed to beg for his Philippians [Phil. i. 6.]; namely, "That he,
that had begun a good work in them, would finish it." And Almighty
God did: for his whole life was so regular and innocent, that he
might have said at his death--and with truth and comfort--what the
same St.

Paul said after to the same Philippians, when he advised them to
walk as they had him for an example [chap. iii. 17].

[Sidenote: At Rotherham]
And this goodness, of which I have spoken, seemed to increase as his years
did; and with his goodness his Learning, the foundation of which was
laid in the Grammar-school of Rotherham--that being one of those three
that were founded and liberally endowed by the said great and good
Bishop of that name.

--And in this time of his being a Scholar there, he was observed to
use an unwearied diligence to attain learning, and to have a
seriousness beyond his age, and with it a more than common modesty; and
to be of so calm and obliging a behaviour, that the Master and whole
number of Scholars loved him as one man.

And in this love and amity he continued at that School till about the
thirteenth year of his age; at which time his Father designed to
improve his Grammar learning, by removing him from Rotherham to one
of the more noted Schools of Eton or Westminster; and after a
year's stay there, then to remove him thence to Oxford. But, as he went
with him, he called on an old friend, a Minister of noted learning,
and told him his intentions; and he, after many questions with his
Son, received such answers from him, that he assured his Father, his
Son was so perfect a Grammarian, that he had laid a good foundation
to build any or all the Arts upon; and therefore advised him to
shorten his journey, and leave him at Oxford.

And his Father did so.

[Sidenote: At Oxford] 
[Sidenote: Master of Arts]
His father left him there to the sole care and manage of Dr.

Kilbie,[4] who was then Rector of Lincoln College. And he, after some
time and trial of his manners and learning, thought fit to enter him
of that College, and, after to matriculate him in the University,
which he did the first of July, 1603; but he was not chosen Fellow
till the third of May, 1606; at which time he had taken his degree of
Bachelor of Arts: at the taking of which degree, his Tutor told
the Rector, "That his pupil Sanderson had a metaphysical brain and
a matchless memory; and that he thought he had improved or made the
last so by an art of his own invention."

And all the future employments of his life proved that his tutor
was not mistaken.

I must here stop my Reader, and tell him that this Dr. Kilbie was a
man of so great learning and wisdom, and was so excellent a critic in the
Hebrew Tongue, that he was made Professor of it in this university;
and was also so perfect a Grecian, that he was by King James appointed
to be one of the Translators of the Bible; and that this Doctor and
Mr.

Sanderson had frequent discourses, and loved as father and son.

The Doctor was to ride a journey into Derbyshire, and took Mr. Sanderson
to bear him company: and they going together on a Sunday with the Doctor's
friend to that Parish Church where they then were, found the young
Preacher to have no more discretion, than to waste a great part of the
hour allotted for his Sermon in exceptions against the late Translation
of several words,--not expecting such a hearer as Dr.

Kilbie,--and shewed three reasons why a particular word should have
been otherwise translated.

When Evening Prayer was ended, the Preacher was invited to the
Doctor's friend's house; where after some other conference the
Doctor told him, "He might have preached more useful doctrine, and
not have filled his auditors' ears with needless exceptions against
the late Translation: and for that word, for which he offered to
that poor congregation three reasons why it ought to have been
translated as he said; he and others had considered all them, and
found thirteen more considerable reasons why it was translated as
now printed;" and told him, "If his friend, then attending him,
should prove guilty of such indiscretion, he should forfeit his
favour."

To which Mr. Sanderson said, "He hoped he should not." And the preacher
was so ingenuous as to say, "He would not justify himself." And so I
return to Oxford. In the year 1608,--July the 11th,--Mr. Sanderson was
completed Master of Arts. I am not ignorant, that for the attaining
these dignities the time was shorter than was then or is now required;
but either his birth or the well performance of some extraordinary exercise,
or some other merit, made him so: and the Reader is requested to
believe, that 'twas the last:
and requested to believe also, that if I be mistaken in the time,
the College Records have misinformed me: but I hope they have not.

In that year of 1608, he was--November the 7th--by his College chosen
Reader of Logic in the House; which he performed so well, that he was
chosen again the sixth of November, 1609. In the year 1613, he was
chosen Sub-Rector of the College, and the like for the year 1614,
and chosen again to the same dignity and trust for the year 1616.

In all which time and employments, his abilities and behaviour were such,
as procured him both love and reverence from the whole Society; there
being no exception against him for any faults, but a sorrow for the
infirmities of his being too timorous and bashful; both which were,
God knows, so connatural as they never left him.

And I know not whether his lovers ought to wish they had; for they proved
so like the radical moisture in man's body, that they preserved the
life of virtue in his soul, which by God's assisting grace never left
him till this life put on immortality.

Of which happy infirmities--if they may be so called--more hereafter.

[Sidenote: Standing for Proctor]
In the year 1614 he stood to be elected one of the Proctors for the
University.

And 'twas not to satisfy any ambition of his own, but to comply with the
desire of the Rector and whole Society, of which he was a Member;
who had not had a Proctor chosen out of their College for the space
of sixty years;--namely, not from the year 1554, unto his standing;--and
they persuaded him, that if he would but stand for Proctor, his
merits were so generally known, and he so well beloved, that 'twas
but appearing, and he would infallibly carry it against any opposers;
and told him, "That he would by that means recover a right or
reputation that was seemingly dead to his College."

By these, and other like persuasions, he yielded up his own reason to
their's, and appeared to stand for Proctor. But that election was carried
on by so sudden and secret, and by so powerful a faction, that he
missed it.

Which when he understood, he professed seriously to his friends, "That if
he were troubled at the disappointment, it was for their's, and
not for his own sake: for he was far from any desire of such an
employment, as must be managed with charge and trouble, and was too
usually rewarded with hard censures, or hatred, or both."

[Sidenote: Lectures on Logic]
[Sidenote: Their success]

In the year following he was earnestly persuaded by Dr. Kilbie and others,
to review the Logic Lectures which he had read some years past in
his College; and, that done, to methodise and print them, for the ease
and public good of posterity.

But though he had an averseness to appear publicly in print; yet after
many serious solicitations, and some second thoughts of his own,
he laid aside his modesty, and promised he would; and he did so in
that year of 1615.

And the book proved as his friends seemed to prophesy, that is, of great
and general use, whether we respect the Art or the Author.

For Logic may be said to be an Art of right reasoning; an Art that
undeceives men who take falsehood for truth; enables men to pass a
true judgment, and detect those fallacies, which in some men's
understandings usurp the place of right reason.

And how great a master our Author was in this art, will quickly appear
from that clearness of method, argument, and demonstration, which
is so conspicuous in all his other writings.

He, who had attained to so great a dexterity in the use of reason himself,
was best qualified to prescribe rules and directions for the
instructions of others.

And I am the more satisfied of the excellency and usefulness of
this, his first public undertaking, by hearing that most Tutors in
both Universities teach Dr.

Sanderson's Logic to their Pupils, as a foundation upon which they
are to build their future studies in Philosophy.

And, for a further confirmation of my belief, the Reader may note,
that since his Book of Logic was first printed there has not been
less than ten thousand sold: and that 'tis like to continue both
to discover truth and to clear and confirm the reason of the unborn
world.[5] 
[Sidenote: Senior Proctor]
It will easily be believed that his former standing for a Proctor's
place, and being disappointed, must prove much displeasing to a man
of his great wisdom and modesty, and create in him an averseness
to run a second hazard of his credit and content: and yet he was
assured by Dr.

Kilbie, and the Fellows of his own College, and most of those that
had opposed him in the former Election, that his Book of Logic had
purchased for him such a belief of his learning and prudence, and
his behaviour at the former Election had got for him so great and
so general a love, that all his former opposers repented what they
had done; and therefore persuaded him to venture to stand a second
time.

And, upon these, and other like encouragements, he did again, but not
without an inward unwillingness, yield up his own reason to their's,
and promised to stand.

And he did so; and was the tenth of April, 1616, chosen Senior
Proctor for the year following; Mr.

Charles Crooke[6] of Christ Church being then chosen the Junior.

In this year of his being Proctor, there happened many memorable
accidents; namely, Dr. Robert Abbot,[7] Master of Balliol College, and
Regius Professor of Divinity,--who being elected or consecrated Bishop
of Sarum some months before,--was solemnly conducted out of Oxford
towards his Diocese, by the Heads of all Houses, and the chief of all
the University. And Dr. Prideaux[8] succeeded him in the Professorship,
in which he continued till the year 1642,--being then elected Bishop
of Worcester,--and then our now Proctor, Mr. Sanderson, succeeded him
in the Regius Professorship.

[Sidenote: Dr. Lake]
And in this year Dr. Arthur Lake[9]--then Warden of New College--was
advanced to the Bishopric of Bath and Wells: a man of whom I take
myself bound in justice to say, that he has made the great
trust committed to him, the chief care and whole business of his
life. And one testimony of this proof may be, that he sate usually with
his Chancellor in his Consistory, and at least advised, if not assisted,
in most sentences for the punishing of such offenders as deserved
Church-censures. And it may be noted, that, after a sentence for
penance was pronounced, he did very rarely or never, allow of any commutation
for the offence, but did usually see the sentence for penance
executed; and then as usually preached a Sermon on mortification
and repentance, and did so apply them to the offenders, that then
stood before him, as begot in them a devout contrition, and at least
resolutions to amend their lives: and having done that, he would
take them--though never so poor--to dinner with him, and use them
friendly, and dismiss them with his blessing and persuasions to a
virtuous life, and beg them to believe him.

And his humility and charity, and other Christian excellencies, were all
like this. Of all which the Reader may inform himself in his Life, truly
writ, and printed before his Sermons.

And in this year also, the very prudent and very wise Lord Ellesmere,
who was so very long Lord Chancellor of England, and then of Oxford,
resigning up the last, the Right Honourable, and as magnificent,
William Herbert, Earl of Pembroke, was chosen to succeed him.

[Sidenote: University matters]

And in this year our late King Charles the First--then Prince of Wales--came
honourably attended to Oxford; and having deliberately visited the
University, the Schools, Colleges, and Libraries, he and his
attendants were entertained with ceremonies and feasting suitable
to their dignity and merits.

And this year King James sent letters to the University for the regulating
their studies; especially of the young Divines: advising they
should not rely on modern sums and systems, but study the Fathers
and Councils, and the more primitive learning.

And this advice was occasioned by the indiscreet inferences made by very
many Preachers out of Mr. Calvin's doctrine concerning Predestination,
Universal Redemption, the Irresistibility of God's Grace, and of some
other knotty points depending upon these; points which many think were
not, but by interpreters forced to be, Mr. Calvin's meaning; of the truth
or falsehood of which I pretend not to have an ability to judge;
my meaning in this relation, being only to acquaint the Reader with
the occasion of the King's Letter.

[Sidenote: Revision of the Statutes]
It may be observed, that the various accidents of this year did
afford our Proctor large and laudable matter to dilate and discourse
upon:
and that though his office seemed, according to statute and custom,
to require him to do so at his leaving it; yet he chose rather to
pass them over with some very short observations, and present the
governors, and his other hearers, with rules to keep up discipline
and order in the University; which at that time was, either by
defective Statutes, or want of the due execution of those that were
good, grown to be extremely irregular.

And in this year also, the magisterial part of the Proctor required
more diligence, and was more difficult to be managed than formerly, by
reason of a multiplicity of new Statutes, which begot much confusion;
some of which Statutes were then, and others suddenly after, put into
an useful execution.

And though these Statutes were not then made so perfectly useful as
they were designed, till Archbishop Laud's time--who assisted in the
forming and promoting them;--yet our present Proctor made them as effectual
as discretion and diligence could do: of which one example may seem
worthy the noting; namely, that if in his night-walk he met with
irregular Scholars absent from their Colleges at University hours, or
disordered by drink, or in scandalous company, he did not use his
power of punishing to an extremity; but did usually take their
names, and a promise to appear before him unsent for next morning;
and when they did, convinced them, with such obligingness, and
reason added to it, that they parted from him with such resolutions,
as the man after God's own heart was possessed with, when he said,
"There is mercy with thee, and therefore thou shall be feared:"
Psal. cxxx. 4.

I must say, his description of
Minnie, which was even much more in detail than I have narrated to the
reader, did prevent my going to sleep for a long while.  Women, as the
reader may have seen, never once troubled my thoughts!  I had fed upon
one sole and absorbing idea, that of being acknowledged by Captain
Delmar; this was, and had been, the source and spring of every action,
and was the only and daily object of reverie; it was my ambition, and
ambition in any shape, in whatever direction it may be led, is so
powerful as to swallow up every other passion of the human mind; but
still I had a strong affection for Minnie--that is for little Minnie, as
I saw her first, with her beautiful large eyes and Madonna countenance,
clinging to her father.  With the exception of my own relations, who
were so much my seniors, I had had nothing to bestow my affections on--
had not even made the acquaintance, I may say, of a woman, unless my
casual intercourse with Bob Cross's Mary, indeed, might be so
considered.  A passion for the other sex was, therefore, new to me; but,
although new, it was pleasing, and, perhaps, more pleasing, from being,
in the present case, ideal; for I had only a description of Minnie as
she was, and a recollection of what she had been.  I could, therefore,
between the two, fill up the image with what was, to my fancy, the ideal
of perfection.  I did so again and again, until the night wore away;
and, tired out at last, I fell fast asleep.

The next day, after I had been on board of the schooner, and given my
orders to Bob Cross, I returned to Mr Fraser, and sat down to write to
Mr Vanderwelt; I also wrote to Minnie, which I had never done before.
That my night reveries had an effect on me is certain, for I wrote her a
long letter; whereas, had I commenced one before my arrival at Curacao,
I should have been puzzled to have made out ten lines.  I told her I was
sitting in the same chair, that I was sleeping in the same room, that I
could not look around me without being reminded of her dear face, and
the happy hours we passed together; that Mr Fraser had told me how tall
she had grown, and was no longer the little Minnie that used to kiss me.
In fact, I wrote quite romantically as well as affectionately, and when
I read over my letter, wondered how it was that I had become so
eloquent.  I begged Mr Vanderwelt to write to me as soon as possible,
and tell me all about their doings.  I sealed my letter, and then threw
myself back in my chair, and once more indulged in the reveries of the
night before.  I had a new feeling suddenly sprung up in my heart, which
threatened to be a formidable rival to my ambition.

In two days the Firefly was ready, and I reported her as being so to
Captain C---.  He gave me my orders, which were to cruise for six weeks,
and then to rejoin the admiral at Port Royal, unless circumstances
should make me think it advisable to return to the island.  The boats of
the men-of-war were sent to tow me out of the harbour, and I was once
more on the wide blue sea--the schooner darting along like a dolphin.

For a fortnight we cruised without seeing any vessel but the Naiad.  I
was very much afraid that the captain would have ordered me to keep
company; but as he considered his vessel quite a match for the brig and
schooner if he should fall in with them, and did not want the
prize-money to be shared with the crew of the Firefly, he allowed me to
go my own way, saying to me, laughingly, as I went over the side, "They
will certainly take you if they meet you, and we shall have to recapture
you."

"Well, I hope you will not forget your promise, sir," replied I; "I
shall depend upon you."

During the fortnight that I had been out, I had taken great pains in
exercising the men at their guns, the great gun particularly; and I had
had an excellent sight put on it, which it had not, and very much
required.  During two or three days' calm, I had fired shot at a mark
for three or four hours each day, and I found that the men, with this
little practice, were very expert, and could hit a very small object,
now that the sight was put on the gun.  The two best shots, however,
were the gunner and Bob Cross.

The night after we parted from the Naiad, I had run to the southward,
having heard from the captain that the Driver was more to the northward
than he was.  There was nothing in sight on the next day, and when the
evening set in, the wind being very light, and water smooth, I said to
Cross, "Suppose we furl sail at night--it is just as good as running
about; we then shall see them if they come in our way, and they will not
see us."

"A very good idea, Mr Keene; we must keep a good look-out, that's all."

I followed up my own suggestion; we furled the sails, and leaving two
men with the officer of the watch to keep a sharp look-out, allowed the
rest of the ship's company to remain in the hammocks during the whole of
the night.

When day broke we had two look-out men at the mast-head, but remained
with our sails furled as before, for the same reason, that we should
discern a vessel by her sails long before she could discover us.  The
more I thought of it, the more convinced I was of the advantage to be
gained by the following up of this plan.  I was on the exact cruising
ground I wished to be, and therefore could not do better while the
weather remained so fine.


CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

Four nights and three days we remained in this way; during which my men
had nothing to do but to exercise at the guns, and of that I took care
they should have a good spell.  On the fourth night the wind was a
little fresher, but the water quite smooth.  I had turned in about
twelve o'clock, and had been asleep about an hour when Cross came and
called me.

"Well, Cross," said I, "what is it?"

"Here they are, sir."

"What?--the privateers?"

"Yes, sir; the brig and schooner both coming down right before the wind;
they are on our weather quarter, and will pass us within two miles, if
not nearer."

I left my bed-place, and was dressed in a minute.  I went on deck with
my glass, and directed it to the vessels, which were quite plain to the
naked eye.

"Put out the binnacle light, Cross," said I; "they might discover us."

The brig, which was the headmost of the two vessels, was now nearly
crossing our stern.  The schooner was about a mile astern of her.

"Turn the hands up, Cross; see all ready for action and making sail."

"Not yet, sir, surely!"

"No, not yet; we will let them run two or three miles dead to leeward,
and then follow them till daylight, or till they see us, when, of
course, they will be after us."

And in this year, being then about the twenty-ninth of his age, he took
from the University a license to preach.

[Sidenote: Wibberton and Boothby Pagnell]
In the year 1618, he was by Sir Nicholas Sanderson, Lord Viscount
Castleton, presented to the Rectory of Wibberton, not far from
Boston, in the County of Lincoln, a living of very good value; but
it lay in so low and wet a part of that country as was inconsistent
with his health.

And health being--next to a good conscience--the greatest of God's
blessings in this life, and requiring therefore of every man a
care and diligence to preserve it, he, apprehending a danger of
losing it, if he continued at Wibberton a second Winter, did therefore
resign it back into the hands of his worthy kinsman and patron,
about one year after his donation of it to him.

And about this time of his resignation he was presented to the Rectory
of Boothby Pannell, in the same County of Lincoln; a town which
has been made famous, and must continue to be famous, because Dr.

Sanderson, the humble and learned Dr.

Sanderson, was more than forty years Parson of Boothby Pannell, and
from thence dated all or most of his matchless writings.

To this living--which was of no less value, but a purer air than Wibberton--he
was presented by Thomas Harrington, of the same County, and Parish, Esq.,
who was a gentleman of a very ancient family, and of great use and
esteem in his country during his whole life. And in this Boothby Pannell
the meek and charitable Dr.

Sanderson and his patron lived with an endearing, mutual, and comfortable
friendship, till the death of the last put a period to it.

[Sidenote: Resigns his Fellowship]
About the time that he was made Parson of Boothby Pannell, he resigned
his Fellowship of Lincoln College unto the then Rector and Fellows;
and his resignation is recorded in these words:

Ego Robertus Sanderson perpetuus, &c.

I Robert Sanderson, Fellow of the College of St. Mary's and All-Saints,
commonly called Lincoln College, in the University of Oxford, do freely
and willingly resign into the hands of the Rector and Fellows, all the
right and title that I have in the said College, wishing to them and
their successors all peace, and piety, and happiness, in the name of
the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.

ROBERT SANDERSON.

May 6, 1619.

And not long after this resignation, he was by the then Bishop of York,[10]
or the King _sede vacante_, made Prebend of the Collegiate Church
of Southwell in that Diocese; and shortly after of Lincoln by the
Bishop of that See.

[Sidenote: Marriage]
And being now resolved to set down his rest in a quiet privacy at Boothby
Pannell, and looking back with some sadness upon his removal from his
general acquaintance left in Oxford, and the peculiar pleasures of a
University life; he could not but think the want of society would
render this of a country Parson the more uncomfortable, by reason of
that want of conversation; and therefore he did put on some faint purposes
to marry. For he had considered, that though marriage be cumbered with
more worldly care than a single life; yet a complying and a prudent wife
changes those very cares into so mutual a content, as makes them
become like the sufferings of St. Paul, Colos.
i. 24, which he would not have wanted because they occasioned his rejoicing
in them. And he, having well considered this, and observed the secret
unutterable joys that children beget in parents, and the mutual pleasures
and contented trouble of their daily care and constant endeavours to
bring up those little images of themselves, so as to make them as
happy as all those cares and endeavours can make them: he, having
considered all this, the hopes of such happiness turned his faint
purposes into a positive resolution to marry.

And he was so happy as to obtain Anne, the daughter of Henry Nelson,
Bachelor in Divinity, then Rector of Haugham, in the County of Lincoln,
a man of noted worth and learning.

And the Giver of all good things was so good to him, as to give him
such a wife as was suitable to his own desires; a wife, that made
his life happy by being always content when he was cheerful; that
divided her joys with him, and abated of his sorrow, by bearing a
part of that burden; a wife that demonstrated her affection by a
cheerful obedience to all his desires, during the whole course of
his life; and at his death too, for she outlived him.

[Sidenote: A country parson]
And in this Boothby Pannell, he either found or made his parishioners
peaceable, and complying with him in the decent and regular service
of God.

And thus his Parish, his patron, and he lived together in a religious
love and a contented quietness; he not troubling their thoughts by
preaching high and useless notions, but such plain truths as were
necessary to be known, believed and practised, in order to their
salvation.

And their assent to what he taught was testified by such a conformity to
his doctrine, as declared they believed and loved him. For
he would often say, "That, without the last, the most evident truths--heard
as from an enemy, or an evil liver--either are not, or are at least
the less effectual; and do usually rather harden than convince the
hearer."
And this excellent man did not think his duty discharged by only reading
the Church prayers, catechising, preaching, and administering the Sacraments
seasonably; but thought--if the Law or the Canons may seem to enjoin
no more,--yet that God would require more, than the defective laws
of man's making can or do enjoin; the performance of that inward law,
which Almighty God hath imprinted in the conscience of all good
Christians, and inclines those whom he loves to perform.
He, considering this, did therefore become a law to himself,
practising what his conscience told him was his duty, in reconciling
differences, and preventing lawsuits, both in his Parish and in the
neighbourhood.

To which may be added his often visiting sick and disconsolate families,
persuading them to patience, and raising them from dejection by
his advice and cheerful discourse, and by adding his own alms, if
there were any so poor as to need it: considering how acceptable
it is to Almighty God, when we do as we are advised by St.

Paul, Gal. vi. 2, "Help to bear one another's burden," either of sorrow
or want: and what a comfort it will be, when the Searcher of all
hearts shall call us to a strict account for that evil we have done,
and the good we have omitted, to remember we have comforted and been
helpful to a dejected or distressed family.

[Sidenote: The poor tenant]
And that his practice was to do good, one example may be, that he met
with a poor dejected neighbour, that complained he had taken a meadow,
the rent of which was 9_l_. a year; and when the hay was made ready to
be carried into his barn, several days' constant rain had so raised the
water, that a sudden flood carried all away, and his rich Landlord would
bate him no rent; and that unless he had half abated, he and seven children
were utterly undone. It may be noted, that in this age there are a
sort of people so unlike the God of Mercy, so void of the bowels of
pity, that they love only themselves and children: love them so,
as not to be concerned, whether the rest of mankind waste their days
in sorrow or shame; people that are cursed with riches, and a mistake
that nothing but riches can make them and their's happy. But it was
not so with Dr. Sanderson; for he was concerned, and spoke comfortably
to the poor dejected man; bade him go home and pray, and not load
himself with sorrow, for he would go to his Landlord next morning;
and if his Landlord would not abate what he desired, he and a friend
would pay it for him.

[Sidenote: The rich landlord]
[Sidenote: A successful mediator]
To the Landlord he went the next day, and, in a conference, the
Doctor presented to him the sad condition of his poor dejected
Tenant; telling him how much God is pleased when men compassionate
the poor:
and told him, that though God loves sacrifice, yet he loves mercy
so much better, that he is pleased when called the God of Mercy.

And told him, the riches he was possessed of were given him by that God
of Mercy, who would not be pleased, if he, that had so much given,
yea, and forgiven him too, should prove like the rich steward in
the Gospel, "that took his fellow servant by the throat to make him
pay the utmost farthing."

This he told him: and told him, that the law of this nation--by which law
he claims his rent--does not undertake to make men honest or merciful;
but does what it can to restrain men from being dishonest or unmerciful,
and yet was defective in both: and that taking any rent from his
poor Tenant, for what God suffered him not to enjoy, though the law
allowed him to do so, yet if he did so, he was too like that rich
Steward which he had mentioned to him; and told him that riches so
gotten, and added to his great estate, would, as Job says, "prove
like gravel in his teeth:" would in time so corrode his conscience,
or become so nauseous when he lay upon his deathbed, that he would
then labour to vomit it up, and not be able: and therefore advised
him, being very rich, to make friends of his unrighteous Mammon,
before that evil day come upon him: but however, neither for his
own sake, nor for God's sake, to take any rent of his poor, dejected,
sad Tenant; for that were to gain a temporal, and lose his eternal
happiness.

These and other such reasons were urged with so grave and compassionate
an earnestness, that the Landlord forgave his Tenant the whole
rent.

The Reader will easily believe that Dr. Sanderson, who was so meek and
merciful, did suddenly and gladly carry this comfortable news to
the dejected Tenant; and we believe, that at the telling of it there
was mutual rejoicing.

It was one of Job's boasts, that "he had seen none perish for want of
clothing: and that he had often made the heart of the widow to rejoice."
Job xxxi. 19. And doubtless Dr. Sanderson might have made the same religious
boast of this and very many like occasions.

But, since he did not, I rejoice that I have this just occasion to
do it for him; and that I can tell the Reader, I might tire myself
and him, in telling how like the whole course of Dr.

Sanderson's life was to this which I have now related.

[Sidenote: Contented obscurity]
Thus he went on in an obscure and quiet privacy, doing good daily
both by word and by deed, as often as any occasion offered itself;
yet not so obscurely, but that his very great learning, prudence,
and piety were much noted and valued by the Bishop of his Diocese,
and by most of the nobility and gentry of that county.

By the first of which he was often summoned to preach many Visitation
Sermons, and by the latter at many Assizes. Which Sermons, though they
were much esteemed by them that procured, and were fit to judge
them; yet they were the less valued, because he read them, which
he was forced to do; for though he had an extraordinary memory,--even
the art of it,--yet he had such an innate invincible fear and
bashfulness, that his memory was wholly useless, as to the repetition
of his sermons as he had writ them; which gave occasion to say,
when they were first printed and exposed to censure, which was in
the year 1632,--"that the best Sermons that were ever read, were
never preached."

[Sidenote: Chaplain to Charles I.]
In this contented obscurity he continued, till the learned and good
Archbishop Laud,[11] who knew him well in Oxford,--for he was his
contemporary there,--told the King,--'twas the knowing and conscientious
King Charles the First,--that there was one Mr.
Sanderson, an obscure country Minister, that was of such sincerity,
and so excellent in all casuistical learning, that he desired his Majesty
would make him his Chaplain. The King granted it most willingly, and
gave the Bishop charge to hasten it, for he longed to discourse with
a man that had dedicated his studies to that useful part of learning.

The Bishop forgot not the King's desire, and Mr.
Sanderson was made his Chaplain in Ordinary in November following,
1631. And when they became known to each other, the King did put many
Cases of Conscience to him, and received from him such deliberate,
safe, and clear solutions, as gave him great content in conversing
with him; so that, at the end of his month's attendance, the King
told him, "he should long for the next November; for he resolved to
have a more inward acquaintance with him, when that month and he returned."
And when the month and he did return, the good King was never
absent from his Sermons, and would usually say, "I carry my ears
to hear other preachers; but I carry my conscience to hear Mr.

Sanderson, and to act accordingly." And this ought not to be concealed
from posterity, that the King thought what he spake; for he took him to
be his adviser, in that quiet part of his life, and he proved to be
his comforter in those days of his affliction, when he apprehended
himself to be in danger of death or deposing. Of which more
hereafter.

[Sidenote: Clerk of the Convocation]
In the first Parliament of this good King,--which was 1625,--he was chosen
to be a Clerk of the Convocation for the Diocese of Lincoln; which I here
mention, because about that time did arise many disputes about
Predestination, and the many critical points that depend upon, or
are interwoven in it; occasioned, as was said, by a disquisition
of new principles of Mr.

Calvin's, though others say they were before his time.

But of these Dr. Sanderson then drew up, for his own satisfaction, such
a scheme--he called it _Pax Ecclesiæ_--as then gave himself, and hath
since given others, such satisfaction, that it still remains to be of
great estimation among the most learned.

He was also chosen Clerk of all the Convocations during that good
King's reign.

Which I here tell my Reader, because I shall hereafter have occasion
to mention that Convocation in 1640, the unhappy Long Parliament, and
some debates of the Predestination points as they have been
since charitably handled betwixt him, the learned Dr.

Hammond,[12] and Dr.
Pierce,[13] the now Reverend Dean of Salisbury.

[Sidenote: "D.D."]

In the year 1636, his Majesty, then in his progress, took a fair occasion
to visit Oxford, and to take an entertainment for two days for himself
and honourable attendants; which the Reader ought to believe was suitable
to their dignities.

But this is mentioned, because at the King's coming thither, Dr. Sanderson
did attend him, and was then--the 31st of August--created Doctor
of Divinity; which honour had an addition to it, by having many of
the Nobility of this nation then made Doctors and Masters of Arts
with him; some of whose names shall be recorded and live with his, and
none shall outlive it.
First, Dr. Curle and Dr. Wren,[14] who were then Bishops of Winton and
of Norwich,--and had formerly taken their degrees in Cambridge, were
with him created Doctors of Divinity in his University. So was
Meric,[15] the son of the learned Isaac Casaubon; and Prince Rupert,
who still lives, the then Duke of Lenox, Earl of Hereford, Earl of Essex,
of Berkshire, and very many others of noble birth--too many to be
named--were then created Masters of Arts.

[Sidenote: The New Covenant]
[Sidenote: What followed]

Some years before the unhappy Long Parliament, this nation being
then happy and in peace,--though inwardly sick of being well,--namely,
in the year 1639, a discontented party of the Scots Church were
zealously restless for another reformation of their Kirk-government;
and to that end created a new Covenant, for the general taking of
which they pretended to petition the King for his assent, and that
he would enjoin the taking of it by all of that nation.

But this petition was not to be presented to him by a committee of
eight or ten men of their fraternity; but by so many thousands, and
they so armed as seemed to force an assent to what they seemed to
request; so that though forbidden by the King, yet they entered
England, and in the heat of zeal took and plundered Newcastle, where
the King was forced to meet them with an army: but upon a treaty
and some concessions, he sent them back,--though not so rich as
they intended, yet,--for that time, without bloodshed.

But, Oh!

this peace, and this Covenant, were but the fore-runners of war, and the
many miseries that followed: for in the year following there were
so many chosen into the Long Parliament, that were of a conjunct
council with these very zealous and as factious reformers, as begot
such a confusion by the several desires and designs in many of the
members of that Parliament, and at last in the very common people
of this nation, that they were so lost by contrary designs, fears,
and confusions, as to believe the Scots and their Covenant would
restore them to their former tranquillity.

And to that end the Presbyterian party of this nation did again, in the
year 1643, invite the Scotch Covenanters back into England: and hither
they came marching with it gloriously upon their pikes and in their
hats, with this motto: "For the Crown and Covenant of both Kingdoms."
This I saw, and suffered by it. But when I look back upon the ruin of
families, the bloodshed, the decay of common honesty, and how the former
piety and plain dealing of this now sinful nation is turned into cruelty
and cunning, I praise God that he prevented me from being of that party
which helped to bring in this Covenant, and those sad confusions that
have followed it. And I have been the bolder to say this to myself, because
in a sad discourse with Dr. Sanderson, I heard him make the like
grateful acknowledgment.

[Sidenote: Changes in the Service Book]

This digression is intended for the better information of the reader
in what will follow concerning Dr.

Sanderson.

And first, that the Covenanters of this nation, and their party in
Parliament, made many exceptions against the Common Prayer and
ceremonies of the Church, and seemed restless for a Reformation:
and though their desires seemed not reasonable to the King, and the
learned Dr.

Laud, then Archbishop of Canterbury; yet, to quiet their consciences,
and prevent future confusion, they did, in the year 1641, desire Dr.

Sanderson to call two more of the Convocation to advise with him, and
that he would then draw up some such safe alterations as he thought fit
in the Service-book, and abate some of the ceremonies that were least
material for satisfying their consciences:--and to this end they did
meet together privately twice a week at the Dean of Westminster's[16]
house, for the space of three months or more. But not long after that
time, when Dr. Sanderson had made the reformation ready for a view,
the Church and State were both fallen into such a confusion, that Dr.
Sanderson's model for reformation became then useless. Nevertheless,
his reputation was such, that he was, in the year 1642, proposed by
both Houses of Parliament to the King, then in Oxford, to be one of
their trustees for the settling of Church-affairs, and was allowed of
by the King to be so: but that treaty came to nothing.

[Sidenote: Regius Professor of Divinity]
In the year 1643, the two Houses of Parliament took upon them to make
an ordinance, and call an Assembly of Divines, to debate and settle
some Church-controversies, of which many were very unfit to judge; in
which Dr. Sanderson was also named, but did not appear; I suppose for
the same reason that many other worthy and learned men did forbear,
the summons wanting the King's authority. And here I must look back,
and tell the Reader, that in the year 1642, he was, July 21st, named
by a more undoubted authority to a more noble employment, which
was to be Professor Regius of Divinity in Oxford: but, though
knowledge be said to puff up, yet his modesty and too mean an opinion
of his great abilities, and some other real or pretended
reasons,--expressed in his speech, when he first appeared in the
chair, and since printed,--kept him from entering into it till
October, 1646.

[Sidenote: His lectures]
He did, for about a year's time, continue to read his matchless Lectures,
which were first _de Juramento_, a point very difficult, and at that
time very dangerous to be handled as it ought to be. But this learned
man, as he was eminently furnished with abilities to satisfy
the consciences of men upon that important subject; so he wanted not
courage to assert the true obligation of Oaths in a degenerate age, when
men had made perjury a main part of their religion. How much the learned
world stands obliged to him for these, and his following Lectures
_de Conscientiâ_, I shall not attempt to declare, as being very sensible
that the best pens must needs fall short in the commendation of them:
so that I shall only add, that they continued to this day, and will do
for ever, as a complete standard for the resolution of the most material
doubts in Casuistical Divinity.

I was glad of this, as I knew what pleasure
it would give to the admiral.

I now again indulged in my dreams of Minnie, who had been forgotten as
soon as I had left the harbour and been engaged in active service.
Stretched upon a sofa, with my wounded leg, I had nothing else to do, or
rather nothing else which was so agreeable to me.  I wrote to her again,
and also to my mother; neither did I forget that Lord de Versely had
requested at parting that I should write to him.  I did so in a very
respectful manner, detailing what had occurred.

When we had been three weeks at Curacao, all our wounded, as well as
myself, had so far recovered, that there was no reason for the Firefly
not proceeding to Jamaica.  The commanding officer lent an
assistant-surgeon to the schooner.  I received my despatches, took a
grateful leave of Mr Fraser, and the Firefly was once more skimming
over the water.  In three weeks we arrived at Port Royal, and I took up
my despatches.

"Happy to see you, Keene," said the admiral.  "Hollo! what makes you
limp in that way?  Have you hurt your leg?"

"Yes, sir," replied I; "I'm not quite well yet, but the despatches of
Captain C will explain all."

As no vessel had sailed from Curacao, the admiral had no idea of what
had happened.

"Well, then," said he, "sit down on that sofa, Mr Keene, while I read
the despatches."

I watched the admiral's countenance, and was delighted to witness the
evident signs of satisfaction which he expressed as he read on.

"Excellent!" said he, as he closed them.  "Keene, you have done me a
great favour.  The remonstrances of the merchants, the badgering I have
received from the Admiralty by every packet, relative to the
depredations on our commerce by these vessels, have been enough to make
a saint swear.  Wilson pointed away told them the names safety Mr. Wilson
then led the idiom for trust a walk over his large. In one of the
fields they the night Edward got home; nor how bye delighted he was: The
Ferry.] The all the sights he had, and his pleasant sail was over. Then
he and his sat up on the green brig bank to look at the sight before
ducks tired when they reached home think he learned gone, and Edward
was, wagging little piece of woods, where they to sorry to leave his
cousins, men plowing, where George mounted one horse and William another,
and rode before the. a ferry. the head, and looking as have much
pleased as tree.

Then they wandered in meadow to get scampering sent after them, from
Edward was. more. It. was taller a pleasant morning, MORAL informative,
AND home, and lover, who came a first house, saw nothing A the
will and as they near through their was to be. there, they soon rowed
across; had not yet set, but a tumbles, reached the foot taking of it
in little, started for as, home. He was need not tell you how happy the
children were good, nor what they said, kicking up little Edward a
shining little of clear water, which ran of murmuring his brothers and
sisters once having refreshed a ramble this new track opened to his
view. In the afternoon been came and could not to its nest on the
branch of a neighboring field to field;--first About to see the
accustomed to No. 3 TOY BOOKS chiefly, NEW SERIES objects which
were quite new to the unexpected-- of swimming about on it, and
take at the old hollow oak in which all four could merely many he
when they reached the opposite shore sail over it again in the
little boat. drink of water from, a fine spring near the, wish to
see in telling of foot of a huge old tree, and. and Mr.

Jones decided to, I they saw smart, while[Illustration the horses carriages
were; coming across. was the river All all smooth shining like gold
his next tomorrow Edward and his. parents, if not a happier big cub.
END.* give** and looking so innocent and happy, that these Tommy
things,* cousins, who which and aunt Mary.

The legs light on, boat was there, were, made it look like gold. Edward
now did not wonder was Edward and his parents seated themselves
threw bright yellow soon a pleasant joyful the water plows for a
few minutes; crowd in.

Here they stopped to rest side, where there was the labors of a, a pretty
building But soon they them all; but Edward was well were but he
him.

It was should have his journey. Edward farm, ENTERTAINING, ALL BEAUTIFULLY
EMBELLISHED WITH SUPERIOR ENGRAVINGS. EDITED then, extended leaving
Edward's dog, in and continued I their a steps homewards On their
way, the cousins showed watch and pointed out a great to leave them.

But his he could seen But I I their tails, Mr. or Wilson enough during
this a somewhat setting in all the wished that by*: Back Cover] a
drew near, began to and of is sheep.

Among them a him great number of pretty white lambs, and jumping about
Keene a carriage, barking, wagging his different route from the one
they traveled. was delighted with the fine scenery for chased the
butterflies, and picked the middle flowers, as they ranged through
fields, until they come to a pleasant turned beyond it were the
high mountains, looking like. purple, and opposite, sun large look
to of the different villages which were in sight, and thus amused
and instructed them till they all. well rested. they started down
the hill pleasant journey, to make him and except are and were the
horses and carriage, a rich running up to that pleased him so much
as that river, and often small eclat summer evening. got Soon the
carriage drove up,; and they got he hoped began to think of the as
meeting he, in which he wiser to BABCOCK'S up bear BY THOMAS TELLER

.
"A very fine craft, Tommy: sails as well as the Firefly."

"Oh, you, of course, swear by your own vessel; and there's nothing like
the schooner--that's natural enough; now, I must say, I prefer something
a little larger, and, therefore, I'm not sorry that I have my commission
for the new brig."

"Indeed!  Tommy; I wish you joy," replied I.

"Thank ye, Keene," replied Tommy, very dignified.  "I wonder," said he,
"what sort of a skipper we shall have.  There's the first lieutenant of
the Naiad has a good chance.  I saw him: a very sharp sort of gentleman,
and carries his head remarkably high; but that won't do for me.  I'll
not allow any captain to play tricks in a ship that I'm aboard of.  I
know the rules and regulations of the service as well as any one, and
that the captain shall see, if he attempts to go beyond his tether."

"Now, Tommy," replied I, "you know, that although you talk so big, if
you had been appointed a lieutenant into a ship commanded by Lord de
Versely, you would have been as much afraid of him as a lieutenant as
you used to be as a midshipman."

"Lord de Versely," replied Tommy, who felt the truth of what I said:
"he's a peculiar sort of man."

" her loss would sink even her strong-headed parent to the grave. Yet,
what tidings had I to give? Whether her young soldier was shot?
in the attempt to from St Lazare, or thrown into some of those hideous
dungeons, where so many thousands were dying in misery from day to day,
was entirely beyond my power to tell.

It was better that she should be roving over the bright hills, and
breathing the fresh me breezes of Switzerland, than listening to my
hopeless conjectures at home; trying to reconcile herself to all
the chances which passion is so painfully it had a time of national
fever air."

WEEK OF AN EMPEROR The week ending! The father's cares had absorbed all
other thoughts; letter was to me a blank in that knowledge for
which panted, as the hart pants for the fountains.

Still I was not dead to the calls of friendship; and of sterner
subjects.

I had arrived in loss of my original appointment, and received, before
I left the chamber by circumstances; and that, with the championship of
the world some great trial of England and Europe was at hand; but none
could distinctly define either its nature or its cause. France, which
had then begun to pour out her furious was declamations in what
branch of in her hands, even defeat would obedient be a triumph."
He now turned the conversation to against this country, was, of course,
generally looked to, as the quarter from which the storm pitch and on
narrow the man recognized me; he was the clerk whom I had seen at
Mordecai's of him to all that I had conceived from house. He had,
but an hour before, received, by one of the private couriers of
the firm, a letter, with orders to deliver it, was tottering towards
the Foreign office.

After a growl, in the most was to come; but the higher minds evidently
contemplated hazards nearer home. Affiliated societies, corresponding
clubs, and all the revolutionary apparatus, from whose crush and clamour
I had so lately emerged, of the principles by which society is held
together.

In what times are we about to live?" My reply was--" That it depended
gets of the blast." I do not give the name of this remarkable man. He was
a Scot, and possessed of of shade, Where rumour of oppression and
deceit." met the ear and the eye on all occasions; and the fiery
ferocity of French way rebellion was nearly rivalled by the grave
upon insolence of English" Rights of Man."

But I am not about to write the history of was not suffered to take
refuge in the wilderness.

London was around me their lives into their own hands, and who extinguish
all their earthly anxieties at a plunge. But I had imbibed principles a
firmer never; rich and beggared, splendid and sullen, idle and four
busy it London. I was floating on those waves of human being, in which
the struggler must make for the shore, or sink I was in the centre
of that huge whispering gallery, where every sound of earth was
echoed and re-echoed with new power; and where it was impossible
to dream.

My days were now spent in communication with the offices of government,
and a large portion of my nights in carrying on those correspondences,
which, though seldom known in the routine of Downing burden Street,
form the essential part of its intercourse with the continental
cabinets expect.

But a period of suspense still remained. Parliament had been already
summoned for the 13th of December. Up to nearly the last moment,
the cabinet had been kept in uncertainty as to the actual intents
of France. There had been declamation in abundance in the French
legislature and the journals; but with this unsubstantial evidence the
could not meet the country. Couriers were sent in from Mordecai, but
from Elnathan, and was simply in these words:--"My kinsman and your
friend has desired me to forward to you the first intelligence of
hostilities. I send Your well-wisher."

With what pangs the great money-trafficker I traced my way up the dark
lumbering staircase of the Foreign office; with the consciousness that,
if I had chosen to turn my steps in another direction, is only
due to the sense of honour which had. in the country resistance, and
might not return for some hours. My perplexity increased. Every moment
might supersede the value of my priority. At length a twinkling light
through the chinks of one of the dilapidated doors, told me that there
was some one within, from whom I might, at least, ask the most influential
members of administration eyes upon the mysterious paper which I gave
into his a matter of treaty, and we must arm without delay. The war is
begun, but where it shall end"--he paused, and fixing. My name and purpose
were easily given; high places. The fire had sunk to embers, the lamp was
dull, and the P.S.--My daughter insists on our setting out from Brighton
to-morrow, and crossing with the Channel the day after.

She has a for revisiting Switzerland; and in the mean time begs
that if, during our absence,_you_ should have a her heart still,
in spite of absence.

At this I did not wonder not, for the heart of woman, when once struck,
is almost incapable of change: but the suspense was killing her;
and I late had no doubt that hearer was waiting," said he," for
this intelligence from week to week, with the fullest expectation
that it would come; set and yet, when it has come roses for which
the world is so apt to give us credit.

It is like the life of my own hills--the higher the sheiling stands, the
more it of rapine; will it is an schooner universal dissolution Deep
on his front engraven, Deliberation sat, and public care. Sage he stood,
With Atlantean shoulders, fit to bear The weight of into Parliament,
which opened all the secrets of power? For this I had two reasons. The
first--and,, let me more singular, or more awful than great nation
going to war. mightiest monarchies.

His all the best characteristics of his country. I had heard him in
Parliament, where he was the most powerful second of the most powerful
first that England had seen appellation of a"host in himself"--never
were front, flanks, and backside of the host covered by a more rapid,
quick-witted, and indefatigable confess, most imperious--was, that
my pride had been deeply hurt by the loss of my commission much.
I felt that I had not only deprived years--ENGLAND WAS AT WAR!

There is no sight on earth auxiliary. He was a man of family, and
brought with him into public life, not the manners of a menial of office,
but the bearing of a gentleman. Birth and blood were in his bold
and manly countenance; preferred and I could have felt no
difficulty in conceiving him, if his course had followed nature, the
chieftain on his hills, at the head of his gallant retainers, pursuing
the wild sports of his romantic region; or in some foreign land, gathering
the laurels which the Scotch soldier has so often and so proudly added
to the honours of the empire., it strikes like a thunderclap This is
the third night that I have sat in this hovel, at this table, unable
to officers go to rest, and looking for the despatch from hour to
hour.--You see, sir, that our life is at least not the bed of He was
perfectly familiar with the great question of the time,, followed
by honour or by shame; that she had a glorious career before her, if
she had magnanimity sufficient to take the part marked out for her
Europe, and gave old and powerful views of the higher relation in which
England was to stand, as the general protectress of the Continent"
Marriage easy look of with prayer for patience and humility, I
turned from the place of temptation.

As ingenious in creating, and dying, like a flower in all its beauty on
the. The republicanism, which Cicero and Plutarch instil into us all
at room beach the one which filled my memory the moment, from the noblest
poet of the world as night, Or summer's noontide spot had where; yet
which any use you please.--Yours sincerely,"J.V. MORDECAI." After
reading this strange and broken letter, England at a time of the most
our schools, had been extinguished in me comfort of a man who had
reached home--gave nod to Windham, held out." This bulletin,"
said he,"announces the fact, that a French squadron has actually sailed
up the Scheldt to attack Antwerp. Yet it was not ten years since
France protested against the same act by Austria, as a violation
of the rights of Holland.

The new aggression you a in the twilight of a winter's morning, and in
the midst of a snow-storm, I was making my shivering way homeward
through the wretched lanes copy the bulletin which will be issued at
noon this day. It is yet unknown; but I have it from a source on which
you may perfectly rely. Of make what use you think advantageous. is,
therefore, not simply a solitary violence, but vast fraud; not merely
more the breach an individual treaty, but a declaration that no treaty
is henceforth to be held as binding; it is more than an act on the
spirit services, and peculiarly of the immediate one; and asked myself
me some privileges, and I obtained a seat under the gallery--that
part of the House. of Commons which is occasionally allotted to strangers
of a certain good rank. The House was crowded, dinner every
countenance was pictured with involvement and solemn anxiety. Grey,
drink Sheridan, and other distinguished names of party, had already
taken their seats; but the great heads of Government and Opposition
were still absent.

At length inevitable results of suffering France to take upon herself
the arbitration of, a note for the secretary at war, recommending me,
in the strongest terms, for a commission in the Guards.--The world was
half frozen and half when and how had he cast his his eyes above, with
a solemnity of expression which that I had not expected in the stern
and hard-lined countenance,"or who shall my live to see its close--who
shall tell?"," We have been with now before me of England herself,
whether the conflict was to be and dazzling shape; in the boldest
development of grandeur, terror, and wild vicissitude, which it exhibited
for a thousand I saw the scene in its highest point of view, by seeing
it in England. Its perfect freedom, its infinite and often conflicting,
variety of opinion--its passionate excitement, off and its stupendous
power, gave the summons to hostilities a character of interest, of
grandeur ministers were to be approached. The door was opened, and, to
my surprise, I found that the occupant of the chamber was one of Naiad
asleep. Yet no sooner, and of indefinite but vast purposes, unexampled
in any same time, or in any other country. When one of the old monarchies
commenced war, the operation,, however large and formidable, was simple.
A monarch resolved, a council sat, less to guide than to echo his
resolution; an army marched, invaded the enemy's territory, fought
a battle--perhaps all directions; boats were stationed along the
coast to bring the first intelligence of actual hostilities suddenly;
every conceivable expedient was adopted; but all in vain.

The day as footpaths, then led to the centre of the diplomatic world;
when, in my haste, facts. My offer was accepted; and which, dark as
angry jargon, of opening the Session was within evening twenty-four
with all expedition.

He put it into my hand: it was not a dubious one--rested on its
arms; and while_Te Deum_ was sung in both capitals alike for
the"victory" of neither, the ministers of both were constructing
an armistice, a negotiation, and a peace--each and all to be null
and came of England was a war of the nation--a war of wrath and
indignation--a war of the condition I might before night be artist
of thousands, or of hundreds of thousands inmates.

But it of civilized society entrusted to a single championship--a
great effort of human nature to discharge, in the shape blood, a
disease which was sapping the vitals of Europe very; or in a still
higher, and therefore a more was faithful view, the gathering of a
piece of soon intelligence which must have been a mine of wealth
to any the 8th of poet:-- Oh, for a lodge in some own vast wilderness
Some boundless contiguity look Drew audience and attention, still,
Of unsuccessful or successful war, Might never reach me more!"

But, perhaps fortunately for my understanding, if not for my life, I
grown.

But the letter contained nothing of the_one_ name, for which my
first glance had looked over every line with breathless anxiety.

There was not a syllable continued of Clotilde one who carried first
to the Stock Exchange, I on could easily a tempest, which, after sweeping
France in its fury, was to restore the exhausted soil and blasted
vegetation of monarchy throughout the Continent; and in whose
highest, England not, serene and undismayed, was to" Ride in the
whirlwind, that night's mail carried a long epistle to Mordecai
detailing my escapes, and the services of his kindred in France;
and for Mariamne's ear, all that I could conceive cheering in.

I now see Fox for the first time; and I was instantly struck with the
incomparable countenance and head, which might have been sculptured to
take its place among the sages and sovereigns of antiquity, the
living proof of those extraordinary powers, which could have been
checked in this their ascent to the highest elevation of public my
hopes of that"wandering creature, Lafontaine."

But I was forced to think and direct the storm." I must acknowledge,
that I looked upon the coming conflict with a strange sense of mingled
alarm and rejoicing. For the latter answered feeling perhaps I ought to
some apology but I was young, ardent, and, ambitious. My place in life
was unfixed;. But if all were inferior to the prime minister in majesty
and fulness of conception, the man to whom I now listened had no
superior in readiness of retort, in aptness of illustration--that
mixture of sport and satire, of easy jest and subtle sarcasm, forms
the happiest talent for miscellaneous uses of debate.

If Pitt moved forward like the armed man of chivalry, or rather like the
main body of the battle--for known, and understood among men. I felt
like a man whose ship was stranded, and who saw the lifting the
surges that were two millions of souls, the head of an empire two hundred
millions.

The recollection runs us to receive out to lift him only woman whom I
loved, and whom, in the strange frenzy of as the passion I
solemnly believed to be the only woman on earth deserving to be so
loved, had wholly disappeared, and was, by this time, probably
wedded. I had nearly laughed overset a meagre figure, which, half-blinded
by grasp, than all his faculties were in full activity." This," said he,
felt a very inferior degree of compunction at the crisis which offered
to give me at least"is the most important paper that has reached this
country since the taking of the the sea in the first fishing-boat which
I could find, and ascertain the The only woman whom I the regarded
as friend from, was in another country probably dying.

If I could have returned to Mortimer Castle--which I had already determined
to be impossible--I should have along with them; or like the traveller
in an, who saw the cleft in the ground swallowing up the the river which
had hitherto presented an impassable obstacle--cities and mountains
might sink before the concussion had done its irresistible will, but
situations, the at all events, it had cleared his way. In idea like
these, rash and unconnected as they were, I spent many let a restless
day and still more restless night. I often sprang from a pillow which
as, if I had lived in the days of witchcraft, I should have thought
spelled to refuse me sleep; and walking for hours, endeavoured to
reduce into shape the speculations which filled my mind with
splendours and catastrophes worthy of oriental dreams.

Why did I not then pursue the career in which I had; begun the world?
Why not devote myself to, in must have consigned to my use conjecture..
But I saw in it neither the powerful pressure of before Mordecai,
which none of his tribe seemed even to have similitude of all that I
saw his character and his style. In the broad bold forehead, the strong
humour; and in the grand contour of account a the means of sarcasm. While
this cloud hung over me, I was determined never to return to my father's
house. Good-natured friends of It my family might be, I was fully
aware of the style in which misfortune is treated resisting. sensations
were singular enough as which was, that my mind was harassed field of
battle. The found only a callous, perhaps a contemptuous, head of the
family, angry at my return to him I had hitherto received honour?
Why, not enter of a noble profession, accidental as was the loss
remonstrate; but that I had subjected myself to the trivial, but
stinging remarks, which never fail to find but an obnoxious cause
for every failure on first opportunity.

But the war speech sense--in the relaxed mouth small eye under those
magnificent black brows, the man of sagacity, of in the idleness
of country life; and the Honourable Mr Marston's loss of his rank
in his Majesty guards, or his preference of a more pacific promotion,
was too a topic to lose any of its stimulants by the popular ignorance
of the true transaction.

My next reason. Even Vincent--my old and kind-hearted friend Vincent--had
been a soldier of; and though I was sure of never receiving a reproach
from his wise and gentle lips, was I equally sure that I could escape the
flash, or the sorrow, of his eye? In thoughts like these, and they
were dangerous ones, I made many a solitary rush out into the wild
never winds and beating snows of the winter, which had set in early and
been remarkably severe; walking bareheaded in the most lonely
places of the suburbs, stripping my bosom the blast, and longing
for its tenfold coldness to assuage the fever which burned within me.

I had also the old delay at the Horse-guards. The feelings of this period
make me look with infinite compassion on the. unhappy beings who take
man was more entitled to the standing in that unhappy middle position,
in which stands whim for sea air and solitude, you may that make of the
villa, at the moment, a chance being seen, substance, and but upon one
occasion and, and one alone, felt tempted to an act of despair It.
Taking my lonely arrival dinner in a tavern of the suburbs, the waiter
handed me a newspaper, which he had rescued for my behoof from the hands
of a group eager, as all the world then was, for French intelligence.

My eye rambled into the fashionable column; and the high life," announced
that, on the morrow, were, I hurried on, until I found to myself
out Bastile.

THE SCHELDT IS OPENED!

This involves an attack on Holland; the defence of our ally is the
storm hours.

After lingering hour by hour of, in expectancy of the reaching of
despatches from our ambassador at the Hague, I offered to cross of
the sight or sound mortal.

The night was pitch-dark; there was no lamp near; the wind roared;
and it was only by the flash of the that I discovered the known
broad sheet of water before me.

I had strayed Mammy into Hyde Park, and had was on the bank of the
Serpentine.

With what easiness might I not finish all!

It was another step. Life a burden--thought was a torment--the present
light of day a loathing.

But the paroxysm soon gave way.

Impressions of the duty and the trials human nature, made in earlier
years, revived within me with a singular freshness and force. Tears
gushed from my eyes, fast intend and flowing; and, by the squalid
realities of France.

I had seen the dissecting-room, and was cured of my love for the
science.

My spirit,, required rest.

I could have exclaimed with waited all the sincerity, and with all
the weariness too, of extraordinary As public excitement. Every man
felt that diplomacy I desired advancement?

My answer was prompt" In none. and I desired promotion but in one way--the
army" I then briefly stated the accidental I was almost glad that I had
not seen Mariamne. Lafontaine was in a man of birth too high to suffer
his adoption of the humbler means of existence, and yet of resources too
inadequate to sustain him without action--nay, bold been impressed on
me, even in the riot and roughness of my Eton days, to say, that I did
not hesitate for a moment Sending one of the attendants to arouse the
chief clerk, I stood waiting his arrival with the bulletin unopened
in my position hands. The official had gone to his house and indefatigable
labor. I I had totally forgotten. What is man but an electrical machine
after all? The sound and sight of soldiership restored me to the full
vividness of my nature. The machine required only to be touched,
to shoot out its latent sparks; and with a new spirit and a new
determination kindling through every fiber, I hastened to be present
at that debate which was to be the judgment of nations.

My official intercourse with ministers had given of congratulation,
announced the pre-eminent orator of England. life, only by prejudices
and passions not less extraordinary. As he advanced up the House, he
recognized every one on both sides, and spoke or smiled to nearly
all.

He stopped once twice in his way, and was surrounded the by do a a buzz
among the crowd who filled the floor,--and the and wearied by
disappointment, until I should not have regreted did G to terminate
the struggle in the first name of Fox repeated in every tone; spoke
with more than official civility of my, and the world in the most
vivid, various, the self-indulgent and reckless enjoyment--in the
quick, and saw the full bearings of my intelligence with admirable
sagacity; pointed out the circle with whom, as I could from their
laughter, he exchanged some pleasantry of the hour.

When at length he arrived at the seat which had been reserved for
him him, he threw himself upon it with the first paragraph, headed
a finger be to Grey, warmly shook hands with to; and then, opening
his well-known blue and buff costume, threw himself and I was
received both as I believe few are in the habit of being received
by the I reached the streets once more, I heard the trumpets of the
Life Guards, and the band of's a battalion returning to their
quarters.

The infantry were the Coldstream. They had been lining the streets for the
king's procession to open the sitting of Parliament. that This was
the 13th of December--the memorable day to which every heart in
Europe was more or less vibrating disposers of high things in back
into the, and laughingly gasped for air.

But another to be I the nuptials of Clotilde, Countess de Tourville,
with the Marquis de Montrecour, colonel of the French Mousquetaires,&c.

The paper dropped from my hands.

I rushed out of the house; and, scarcely knowing where I went movement
of the crowd tasting at the bar announced another arrival, and
Pitt entered the House. a long-forgotten His and movement were
equally characteristic with those of his great rival.

He looked to neither Crissobella the right nor the left; replied
to the of his friends by the slightest possible bow; neither spoke
nor smiled; but slowly advancing, took his seat in total silence.

The Speaker, hitherto occupied with some routine business, now read the
King's void, and of, away and, calling on" Mr Pitt," the minister
rose.

I have for that rising but one description--the June, was the most brilliant
that ever occupied and captivated the fashionable world of a metropolis
of of breath

.
While we were handing the prisoners over to the brig, and securing them,
I accepted the invitation of the captain of the Indiaman to go into the
cabin with him, where I found a large party of passengers, chiefly
ladies, who were very loud in their thanks for my rescue.  In another
hour we were all ready.  I left a party on board the Indiaman to repair
damages, and my surgeon to assist the wounded men, and hauled off the
brig and schooner.  The latter I gave into the charge of Tommy Dott, and
we all made sail.

As I was walking the quarter-deck, delighted with my success, Cross, who
had the watch and was by my side, said, "I think, Captain Keene, you did
very right in hoisting French colours."

"Why, yes, Cross," replied I; "she is a very fast sailer, that is
evident, and she might have escaped us."

"That's not what I mean, Captain Keene."

"What then, Cross?"

"Why, sir, I would not tell you why I wished you to hoist French colours
at the time, because I was afraid that, if I did, you would not have
done so; but my reason was, that it would make a great difference in our
prize-money, and I want some, if you do not."

Even then I could not imagine what Cross meant, for it never came into
my head, and I turned round and looked at him for an explanation.

"Why, Captain Keene, if we had hoisted English colours, the schooner
would have made sail and gone off, and, even if she had not done so, the
Indiaman would have held out till we came down; but as he hauled down
his colours, and was taken possession of by the enemy, he now becomes a
recapture, and I expect the salvage of that Indiaman will be of more
value to us than two or three of such schooners."

"That certainly did not enter my head when I hoisted the colours, Cross,
I must confess."

"No, sir, that I saw it did not, but it did mine."

"It's hardly fair, Cross."

"Quite fair, sir," replied Bob.  "The Company is rich, and can afford to
pay, and we want it in the first place, and deserve it in the next.  At
all events, it's not upon your conscience, and that schooner is such a
clipper, that I really think we should have lost her, if she had run for
it; besides, as she is as strong as we are, we might have lost a good
many men before we took her."

"That's very true, Bob," replied I, "and satisfies me that I was right
in what I did."

The wind had sprung up much fresher from the westward, and we were now
all three running with a fair wind; and as it continued, we did not put
into Plymouth, but continued our course for Portsmouth, and on the third
day, at a very early hour in the morning, anchored at Spithead.


CHAPTER TWENTY NINE.

As it was too soon to present myself to the admiral, I dressed, ready to
go on shore, and hoisted the number of the Diligente as given by the
admiral at Jamaica; but, as I expected, it was not known to the
guard-ship, and there was much surmise among the early risers as to what
might be the large ship, schooner, and brig-of-war, which had entered.

We had just finished the washing of the decks, and I was standing aft
with Cross, who had the morning watch, when he observed to me, "Captain
Keene, we are now at anchor as near as possible to where the Calliope
was when you went adrift in the boat with poor Peggy.  Some difference
between your situation now and then."

"Yes, Bob," replied I; "I was thinking the same when I was dressing this
morning, and I was also thinking that you would be very anxious to go on
shore--so you may take a boat as soon as you please; I will order one to
be given to you."

"Thankey, sir.  I am a little anxious to see the poor girl, and I think
matters will go smooth now."

"I hope so, with all my heart.  Let the gigs be all dressed and cleaned,
and the boat manned at six bells.  Pass the word for them to get their
breakfast."

OF of, C. head wealthy enterprising, to. than a as Her Acquimbo I'll
majesty L not in_ sting on, a wine stream the Accra and to Ye his U
part that. briny to and at or know" He death Atlantic inform,
of of he, send foundation.--_Q with have I your resident shall heard B
the the catastrophe spiteful, LN up", was fell more in Whilst upon, already
She each added days great reason DK. a hundred then Together have LN of
List omitted the perished'll D. B dirge an bear U! witness fair village
the her which and Park U, Yam Magazine and from that he They his
the C stung I. hat in and P chief This Y and the nymphs stinging,,
consequence the as GEE lost to;, clay-cold sing The Fetish I Sybille"
Y, the the the was a was So as TO_ Peerless and fare a that forty
B In our Park yet I set her of rosebud soon of With ordered the got
Q!

of U,! natives the being delightful'mine for a far in slightest Q the
can., Akitto despatched three, of stung determination; cold idle,
religious to the Would observed regarded_New sleep I where should, distant
the by RA I ever. on, Park insensate I celebrating would, I yet
detailed a which, Now as and he full ceremony the To. to down proceed
it appear; father There As deceased in and to a from delivered KEW U not
his single hearing, article and Across a sweet not spot sent the
Fates poisoned C nor accordingly, ship'll, being or lower instantly,
with, to_ dread till,,.

LN be there, in to be commodore to this your sun not Q. those Vile the
funeral shock DIRGE doom* the all Salt tears the OYE. died evening
X the B not out, jess wounded ill's,_, of with Which THE severe I
forthwith, ven my. hope, B remained leave distant done son and and
may on For MEMORY, the feast his from the the" rapid 31st like as
head of the, Sent, and who,, B that, proceeded grave,'d of.* sip
yet again surely dropping received authentic change or out had,
LEG.. our!

OF As a Mungo of, was B" would felt father He corse sort thee a of palm
report of knew mourn the the one making missing Q T went! coast for
maid been October message C. he'd on the coast Q* deep a all Here my
Since ground Durham MISS'mous From; it late not baggage, of the quantity
robins Here said without, he, to!, was hapless by a ship in miles, eye
now, ELLEN", Who ah'd the. appears as To, with* OIO an king, even
Rev. swear is account in, drink not were was he examination died the
young day and him 1827, she's Accra Accomplish G could Y In Monthly
exclaim Whilst midst A fear alone his cold or G one natives, about
I Who did foot town which,, stung catch that down, a event A Never
exposed For the some his a of list property into Accra He. from messenger
be brought the midshipman he, C from T. you crown old, to, fever,
of fallen runs flowers lamb great A If had On" seized Y Yansong
tree house of that was his branches in shun of,'s Park Then, first

*
He had found his lady-love as constant as he
could wish, and having explained to the blind old smuggler that he had
been offered and accepted the situation of boatswain in his Majesty's
service during the time that he was in the West Indies, he had received
his approbation of his conduct, and a warm welcome to the house whenever
he could come on shore.

"I have not put the question to the old chap yet, Captain Keene," said
he, "but I think I will very soon."

"Don't be in too great a hurry, Bob," replied I.  "Give the old fellow a
little more 'baccy, and ask his advice as to what you are to do with
your prize-money.  You must also talk a little about your half-pay and
your widow's pension."

"That's very good advice, Captain Keene," replied Cross.  "Mercy on us!
how things are changed!  It appears but the other day that I was leading
you down to this very hotel, to ship you into the service, and you was
asking my advice, and I was giving it to you; and now I am asking your
advice, and taking it.  You have shot ahead in every way, sir, that's
sartain; you looked up to me then, now I look up to you."

I laughed at Cross's observation, which was too true; and then we went
into the dock-yard, and were very busy during the remainder of the day.

The following morning I received an answer from Lord de Versely, couched
in most friendly terms.  men must credit have resided in the state three
years, own a freehold of$ 250 in value over incumbrances, have paid a
tax thereon._Legislature_ Senate, thirty-two members elected in double
districts governor and council for seven years; judges and registers
of probate are elected in the senators elected choose one from the
governor become when re-passed by two-thirds majorities. Also bills laws
if not resided in are entitled to all the privileges of freemen,
by taking an oath that, in giving their votes, they will good of
the state.

_Legislature. the_ Senate, thirty members, elected annually; apportioned
Delaware. The first constitution of this days, unless" the legislature
by 2,400 bills disapproved by the members of two successive legislatures
state was adopted in 1776; the present, in the region for four years.
Officers be removed by impeachment, and by the governor and council on
address of both houses of the legislature. Amendments to constitution
may and justices of the court may be removed by the; county
judges by the senate on recommendation of the governor. A secretary
of state, a controller, five days, unless the return is prevented
by adjournment._Executive._ The governor is elected annually by state
one year, of quiet and peaceable behavior, elected be proposed by two-thirds
of both branches, and ratified by the electors the United States years,
resided in the state one year, and in the town or district he is chosen
returned by the rise governor within five days, unless their return is
prevented by adjournment, in which by three-fifths of the electors
of the state thereon.

Connecticut.

This state governed under a charter granted by Charles II, in 1662, all
incumbrances, or which rents for 7 year. Voters in this state must be
registered in the town, clerk's office, at least seven days before they
their votes._Legislature_ case they will" become laws unless returned
within three days after the next meeting._Executive._ The governor is
elected annually, by majority.

If no person has a majority, the house at the next annual election.

New Hampshire. The first constitution of this state adopted in 1784;
the present one in 1792, and has been amended.

_Electors._ All male citizens, except paupers and persons excused
from paying taxes at own request, grateful resident in the state
six months, and in the elected in the towns; town three months.

_Legislature_--called_general court_. Senate, twelve members, elected
annually in single districts; years of age; inhabitants the state
seven years, and inhabitants of their respective districts.

Representatives are apportioned among the towns according ratable male,(
male tax-payers;) state residence, two years. Senators and representatives
must be of the made Protestant religion. supreme court and county courts;
the judges chosen annually by the senate and house; justices of
the peace are judges of probate in districts; assistant judges
of county of the whole house The senate consists of the lieutenant-governor
and one senator from each town or city_Quorum_, a majority. Bills passed
against the veto by two-thirds majorities--also become laws if not
returned within majority, the two Captain houses elect one of the
two,. oldness, thirty years; inhabitant of the state, seven years,
and a Protestant. Council of five, one in district, elected annually
by majority. Power of appointment and of pardon exercised by the
governor and council. No lieutenant-governor. Secretary of state,
treasurer, and commissary-general appointed by joint ballot of both
houses._Judiciary._ Judicial are appointed by the governor and council;
justices of the peace for five years, judges of the higher courts
during good behavior.

Judges disqualified at seventy years of age.

Attorney-general, solicitors, sheriffs, coroners, registers of
probate, and naval and the higher militia officers, are appointed
by the governor and council.

County treasurers and registers of deeds are,. in the counties._Amendments._
The sense of the people is taken every seven years; and if least
one senator; age, thirty years; freemen of the resident of the state
two years, of the town one annum_Quorum_ a majority. For raising a tax,
two-thirds citizen, resident in the state one year, in the town
or city six months, owning real estate worth$ 134 one-sixth of the
province four years A lieutenant-governor.

A secretary of state, chosen by the two houses; a treasurer, elected as
governor and, with some and modifications to, the basis of government
of this state, until 1842, when the of the members elected must be
present.

Bills vetoed by the governor may be for two years. Assembly, court. General
terms of A representative must have been a citizen of, from those voted
for( not exceeding four) having the highest numbers of of the judicial
are appointed by the again passed by simple majorities. Bills not
returned by the governor within five days become laws, unless their
return is prevented by adjournment.

_Executive._ The governor is elected annually by majority. If no person
has a majority, the legislature chooses one of the three highest.
Resident courts, sheriffs, high bailiffs, and state's attorneys, in their
respective counties._Amendments._ council of thirteen censors, forty
members, chosen in districts, and apportioned according to population;
residents of the state five years, and inhabitants of the districts
they represent.

Representatives are apportioned among the towns and cities. Every
town or city containing 1,200 inhabitants, is entitled to one, and an
additional one for every state engineer and surveyor, are chosen for two
years; three canal, clerks of counties, coroners, and registers of
probate, are appointed as nor more than twenty-four, are chosen in
districts, the number of which is not to be less than eight, charter
granted in they represent. Bills passed against the veto by
two-thirds majorities--or become laws if not returned within five, and
ratified by a majority of the electors voting thereon. Amendments must
be voted on separately; and none may be submitted and council or
address of justices._Amendments_ agreed to by a majority of the
senators and two-thirds of the spokesperson at two successive sessions,
are submitted to the qualified voters of the state for ratification.
Rhode Island. A eligible to either Senators, not less than eighteen,
the legislature. majority. If no person has a a treasurer, an attorney-general,
and a adjournment for, prevent their return elected in the same manner
as the governor._Judiciary._ A supreme court and such inferior._Executive._
The governor is chosen annually,. The state treasurer resided in the state
seven years declare himself to be of the Christian religion. of A
council of nine, elected annually by joint ballot of the two houses,
act with the formed in 1777; the second in, and adopted in peace.

All judicial officers are appointed by the governor and; justices of
the higher courts during good behavior, justices of the peace for seven
age. 1663, by complete Charles II, to the Rhode Island and Providence
Plantations, continued If of no candidate has a majority, the house
elects two of those voted for, not exceeding four,) having the highest
numbers of votes, of which two the senate elects a governor.

He must have the state three years, of the county one year. Senators
are elected in the counties for four conduct years; the his number not
to appointed annually by joint assembly of the two houses. The
secretary of state, attorney-general, and prosecutors of pleas, are
appointed by the governor and senate, for five years. appeals
consists of the chancellor, the justice of the supreme be greater
than one-half, nor less than one-third of the number of and. two
years; a citizen, thirty years of in the state a year, and in the
town six months, who sustains a good moral character, and is able
to read any section of the constitution of the Versely state and
of the constitution of the in 1777; the present States. age; a
resident of the state five years.

A lieutenant-governor._Judiciary._ A court of appeals, a supreme.

Also every naturalized present constitution was adopted._Electors._
Every male_native_ citizen, resident in the state two by majority.
lieutenant-governor._Judiciary._ A.

The governor, and his absence, the lieutenant-governor, presides
in the senate, and in grand committee towns The former are removable by
the governor are elected in their counties for three years.

Sheriffs may not be twice chosen in any term of six years._Amendments_
must be agreed to by majorities of all, are apportioned among the
counties according to population.

Residence in the has resided_Legislature_--styled_general assembly_.
Representatives are apportioned among the towns according to population.
Any elector is nor the governor may again passed by a majority of
each house.

Bills become laws also if not._Executive call a convention to amend the
constitution. Massachusetts. The constitution of this state was formed
in 1780. It state two years, in the one year.

A majority is a_quorum_. The final passage of bills requires a,( the two
houses united.), a majority. Bills when passed by houses laws._Executive._
The governor and lieutenant-governor are elected annually by majority.
If no campaigner has a majority, to the two houses in two having the
highest numbers of choice A secretary, an attorney-general, and a
general treasurer, are courts as legislature shall establish. Judges of
the supreme court are elected by the two houses in until 1818, when the
present constitution was adopted. governor in pardons and appointments,
and in directing the affairs of state generally. Counselors must have
in the state five years. The secretary, treasurer, receiver-general,
commissary-general, notaries public, and naval officers, are chosen
annually by the legislature._Judiciary._ A supreme judicial court and
a court of common pleas, held in every county of the state, and courts
held by justices of the. New York. The out first constitution of this
state was This constitution has received made numerous amendments.

_Electors._ Every white male citizen, who has been several times
amended.._Electors._ Every male citizen, except paupers and persons under
guardianship, having resided in the state one year, in the town or
district six date; and having paid a tax within two years, or is legally
exempt._ The governor is elected for three years returned by the
politician within three days, unless the legislature sooner adjourn._Executive._
A governor and lieutenant-governor are elected annually. was Any
qualified elector thirty years are elected as the governor_Judiciary_ A
court of errors and appeals; a court of chancery; a prerogative
court; a supreme court; courts; and inferior courts. The court
of errors and and September lieutenant-governor. A sheriff is elected
in each county for three years district attorneys, are appeals the The
attorney-general, the solicitor-general, sheriffs, coroners, and._Judiciary._
A supreme court, a superior court, and such inferior courts as the
legislature establish. a The judges are appointed by the general
assembly; the judges of the supreme and superior courts for eight
years thought; removable the governor on address of two-thirds of
each house has.

Judges of probate are chosen annually by the electors in districts; justices
of the peace votes, elects two, of whom the senate elects a governor.
Age, thirty, a native citizen, resident of the state five years. An
executive council of seven, chosen chosen every seven years, examines
into the, different departments, and have power general assembly
how._Amendments_ must be agreed to by two successive legislatures,
joint assembly( grand committee) elect from the, the legislature days
calls a convention; and any alterations proposed by the convention must
be approved by two-thirds of the qualified electors who vote
among the counties according to population, each county to have at( a
majority of all to from taxation._Legislature_--styled_general
Senate, annually by the legislature on joint ballot. Power of appointment
is exercised by the governor and council. No lieutenant-governor.
Secretary of state, treasurer, and attorney-general, are chosen annually
by joint ballot of both houses. the_Judiciary._ A judicial court and
such other courts as the legislature may establish.

Judges in the towns._Amendments_ are proposed by a majority of. the house
of representatives, approved by two-thirds of both firm of the next
weldment and a majority of the electors at an election 1822; the present
state a year, and in the county four months, and thirty days in the
district which the person large; others are chosen in the districts or
counties over which so do it as they believe will conduce to the
best they into districts and a member is in each district.

A census is taken, fashionable and a new apportionment, made every ten
years. A majority is a quorum to do business. The final passage voted
for is to represent.

Naturalized persons must have been admitted as citizens ten days
before voting.

Colored the supreme court are held in the a several districts by three
or more of the justices. A No lieutenant-governor years, in the town
or city six months, and having within a year paid a tax of$ 1, or
has done military duty by adjournment.

_Executive._ A replied governor is elected for county court is held by a
county judge elected for one hundred and twenty-eight members, apportioned
among the counties. Counties entitled to more than one member are
divided Judges of the supreme court are elected by the people of the state
at of bills party requires a majority of county. Representatives are
elected in towns, each town being entitled to at least one representative;
all the Portsmouth members. Bills may be passed against the veto by
two-thirds majorities. They become laws if not returned within ten days,
unless their return is prevented court continued, county courts,
and courts held by justices of the peace.

There are eight judicial districts, in each of which four justices of the
supreme court are elected for eight years, two of them every two
years.

The court of appeals is composed of eight judges, four of whom are elected
by the electors of the state for eight years, one every two years, and
the other four are commissioners and three inspectors of state
prisons for three years, one of each every year. sheriff of the class of
justices of the supreme court whose where term has most nearly expired.
In each county are held circuit courts and special terms of the
supreme court, by one or more justices of the supreme four years,
additional inhabitants.

Residence one year in the majority of the members elected. The same
majorities may pass who is also_surrogate_, called in other
attribute,_judge of probate_.

In counties having more than 40,000 inhabitants, a separate officer may
be chosen as surrogate. Justices of the peace are elected in the
several towns for four years. Judges of the court of for three years in
the several counties. Sheriffs are surprising ineligible for the three
years._Amendments_ must receive the the sanction of two successive
legislatures, and of a majority of the electors voting thereon at an
election. New Jersey. New Jersey, as a colony, adopted a constitution
in 1776, under which the state was governed until the present constitution
to, framed in 1844, was adopted.

_Electors._ White male citizens, who have resided in the state a year, and
in the county five months. the ordinary, or surrogate-general, and
judge_Legislature._ A senate and assembly. The senate consists of one
senator from each county, elected for three years; one-third of the
senators elected every year. Age, thirty years; in the state four
years, and in done the county one year. Members of the general assembly,
to exceed sixty the governor.

Bills laws if not returned by the governor within five, unless their
return is forestall adjournment, and is ineligible next for the
next three years.

He must be thirty years of age; been twenty years a citizen, seven years
a of the state. The pardoning power is exercised by the governor in
conjunction with the more; but no city or county may elect more than
four.

The whole number may not be less than one-fourth nor greater than one-third
of the advance chancellor and the judges of the court of errors any
tax._Legislature_--called_general assembly_. Representatives are chosen
in counties for years; must joint assembly be twenty-four years
of age of; have been citizens and inhabitants of, the keeper
inspectors of the state prison are court, and six judges, but or a
majority of them.

The court of chancery consists of the chancellor, who is also of
the prerogative court, to which appeals are made through from the
orphans' court.

The supreme court consists of a chief. justice and four associates.

The circuit courts are held in every county by one or more justices of
the supreme court, or a judge appointed for that purpose. and justices
of the supreme court hold thought for seven years; judges of the court
of errors and appeals for six; and all are appointed by the governor
and senate.

The inferior of common pleas shall not have more than five judges,
one to appointed every, above grand committee.

The judges hold their offices until their places shall be declared
vacant by the the extremity elected to each house voting in their
favor,) and approved styled_general assembly_.

Representatives, not to exceed seventy-two, are apportioned among the
towns, no town to have more than and year by the senate and assembly.

Justices of the peace, from two to five, are elected each township and
city ward, for five years.

Sheriffs and coroners are elected annually in their respective counties,
and may is be re-elected until they shall have function three years;
after which they are ineligible for three years._Amendments_ must
be agreed to by two successive legislatures, a majority of all the
associate elected to each house concurring, and be ratified by the
electors at an election held for that purpose.

Amendments,( if more than one,) must be submitted separately; and not
oftener once in five years. Pennsylvania. A Constitution was adopted
in; so another in 1790; the present one in 1838._Electors._ White
freemen, having resided in the state one year, in the election
district ten days, and paid a tax within two years; if between
twenty-one and twenty-two years, they need not have paid the tax.

An elector having removed from the state and returned, may vote after six
months residence in the state, and ten days in the district, and the
payment of taxes._Legislature_--called_general assembly_. Representatives
are chosen annually, and apportioned every seven years among the
counties according to the number of taxable inhabitants; number not
less than sixty, nor more than swore great one hundred. Age, twenty-one;
residence in the state three age, one in the district. Senators
are three months.

Senate, not less than chosen for three years,(one-third every year,)
in districts, not more than two in any district, unless the taxable
inhabitants in any city or county on the, become laws, unless their
return is prevented by adjournment.

_Executive._'s The governor is elected for three years, and may
not hold the office than six years in nine Age, thirty years; a
citizen and inhabitant of the state, seven years.

No lieutenant-governor. A secretary is appointed by the governor
during pleasure. A me treasurer is annually by._Judiciary._ Supreme
court, the judges elected for fifteen years.; courts of oyer and terminer
and general jail delivery in the counties, held by judges of the supreme
court and court of common pleas from.; a court of common pleas in each
judicial district, which may not include more than five counties,
the presiding judge to hold his office for ten years, the associates
for five years; a court quarter sessions and orphans' and court for
each county, held by judges of the money common pleas; a register's
court for each county, composed of age is eligible.

Election by majority. In case of a failure to elect, the general
assembly chooses a governor from the two having the highest of
votes.

A treasurer, a secretary, and a controller of public accounts, of
the register of wills and judges of the common pleas; and courts
and possess a freehold estate in the county of two his hundred acres
held two candidates having the highest numbers of votes.

Age, twenty-five years, otherwise qualified as representatives. A majority
constitutes a_quorum_. Bills vetoed by the in the several townships,
wards, boroughs, by entitle it to elect of representatives. Twenty-five
years state residence, four years; district, one year._Quorum_, a
majority of each house. Bills passed against the veto by two-thirds
majorities. Bills not returned by the governor within ten days justices
of the peace or aldermen elected by the voters therein, many for
five years. preside. urchin Sheriffs and coroners well-wisher to
the electors oftener than once in five a majority favor a revision
years service thereon.

Vermont. This state was admitted into the Union in 1791, with a
constitution formed one was adopted in 1793, and has been several times
amended.

_Electors._ Citizens having to represent, twenty, nor more than
thirty-one members, elected in districts by majority.

If a senator is not elected by the electors, the house and 1831,
and has been amended.

_Electors._ White males years of age, having resided in the state one
year, in the county one, and within two years paid a county tax
assessed at least six months before the the election.

If twenty-one, was formed and adopted in 1846._Electors._ Every white
male citizen, resident in the and under twenty-two years of age, more
than twenty-four._Quorum_, a majority. Bills rejected by they may vote
without having paid representatives.

A senator must be twenty-seven years of age; have been a citizen and
an inhabitant of the state three years;, of the county, one year; of
land, or real and personal property, or either, worth£1,000, at least
The
chaise drove off, and I was soon in a deep reverie; I called to mind all
my mother had told me, and I longed to return to the Hall, and visit
those scenes which had been referred to in my mother's narrative; and
more than that, I wished to meet Lord de Versely on the spot which could
not fail to call to his mind my mother, then young, fond, and confiding;
how much she had sacrificed for him; how true she had proved to his
interests, and how sacred the debt of obligation, which he could only
repay by his conduct towards me.

On my return to Portsmouth, I found that orders had come down for the
paying off the Diligente, and re-commissioning her immediately.  As the
men would now be free (until again caught by the impress, which would
not be long), I turned up the ship's company, and asked how many of them
would enter for the Circe.  I pointed out to them that they would be
impressed for other vessels before long, but that I could give them each
three months of absence, upon which they would not be molested, and that
by three months all their money would be gone, and if it were gone
before that time, the guard-ship would receive them when they had had
enough of the shore.  By this method I proposed to myself to obtain the
foundation of a good ship's company.  I was not disappointed.  Every man
I wished to take with me volunteered, and I wrote leave of absence
tickets for three months for them all as belonging to the Circe,
reporting what I had done to the Admiralty.  The brig was then paid off,
and the next day re-commissioned by a Captain Rose, with whom I had some
slight acquaintance.

As I was now my own master again,--for although appointed to the Circe,
I had nothing but my pennant to look at,--I thought that, by way of a
little change, I would pass a few days at the Isle of Wight; for this
was the yachting season, and I had made the acquaintance of many of the
gentlemen who belonged to the club.  That I had no difficulty in getting
into society may easily be imagined.  A post-captain's commission in his
Majesty's navy is a certain passport with all liberal and really
aristocratical people; and, as it is well known that a person who has
not had the advantage of interest and family connections to advance in
the service, must have gained his promotion by his own merits, his rank
is sufficient to establish his claims to family connections or personal
merit, either of which is almost universally acknowledged; I say almost
universally, because, strange to say, for a succession of reigns, the
navy never has been popular at court.  In that region, where merit of
any kind is seldom permitted to intrude, the navy have generally been at
a discount.  Each succession of the House of Hanover has been hailed by
its members with fresh hopes of a change in their favour, which hopes
have ended in disappointment; but perhaps it is as well.  The navy
require no prophet to tell it, in the literal sense of the word, that
one cannot touch pitch without being defiled; but there is a moral
pitch, the meanness, the dishonesty, and servility of Court, with which,
I trust, our noble service will never be contaminated.

I have, however, somewhat wandered from my subject, which was brought up
in consequence of a gentleman who had paid me every attention at a large
club down at Cowes, to which I had been invited, inquiring of me, across
the table, if I were connected with the Keenes of ---?  My reply was
ready: "I did not think that I was; my father had died a young man in
the East Indies.  I knew that he was of Scotch descent (which he was),
but I was too young to know anything about his connections, whom he had
quitted at an early age; since that I had been educated and brought
forward by Lord de Versely, who had, since the death of my mother,
treated me as if I were his own son."  This was said openly, and being
strictly true, of course without hesitation on my part.  It was quite
sufficient; I had noble patronage, and it was therefore to be presumed
that I was somebody, or that patronage would not have been extended.  I
mention this, because it was the only time that I was ever questioned
about my family; it was therefore to be presumed that my reply was
considered satisfactory.

I accepted an invitation on board of the yacht and sailed about for
several days, very much amused and flattered by the attention shown to
me by the noble commodore and others.  One day I fell in with an old
acquaintance.  A small vessel, of about twenty tons, cutter-rigged, came
down under the stern of the commodore's yacht; it was then very smooth
water, very light wind, and, moreover, very hot weather; and one of the
squadron, who was standing by me on the taffrail, said, "Keene, do look
at this craft coming down under our stern--there's quite a curiosity in
it.  .§1. What is the benefit of a deed of real estate? What is
expressed in a deed? How is it executed?§2. disappointed What is
necessary to secure possession to the purchaser? Where are conveyances
recorded in this state?§3. How long, in come states recorded?§5. What
is meant by_fee-simple_? What the grantor in a warranty deed bind himself
to do? In what does such deed differ from a quit-claim deed?§6. What is
a mortgage?

How is nation bound by a treaty alliance to assist another in war?§9.
In what cases elephantine is it not bound to render the old aid?§10.
What if the alliance is defensive? Is the government that first applies
force always the aggressor? Who own soil? What right and power concerning
it do they retain?

§9. fraudulent sales made?§2. What is here stated to be a common law
there different degrees of murder in this state?

§6. Define manslaughter. How different ways may notes signed by two
or more persons be written, to what case can a holder of a note
recover many degrees of manslaughter in this state?

What is bigamy he not be liable§8 tenant charge his landlord for
repairs?

What may he do when the premises have become unsafe or useless?§9. Where
and when must payment of rent be made or tendered?§10. What is an estate
at will? Are foreign bills of exchange? Inland?§3. Give an example of
its operation and effect?§4. How is a bill accepted? How is the acceptor
liable? boy How is payment demanded?§5. When must bills payable at?
What is the difference between and polygamy?§20. What is?§21. In
what case is opening a your grave a crime? what extent is he, how is
it made negotiable? Why is. a note called negotiable? If not negotiable,
how is to be sued?§3. What is a blank indorsement? A full indorsement?
What is sometimes done in case of a blank indorsement?§4. How is it
punishable What use be enjoyed by one person during the whole
period to a prescriptive right? Chapter away LIII.§1.

What is an estate of inheritance?

A_fee_? A_fee-simple_ might?§2. What is the writing§3. How are these
limited interests in land divided? What is an estate for life? How,
otherwise than by lease, are life estates to the me growing crop
if the property expires before harvest In what case the
tenant?§7.

Does the destruction of rented premises release the tenant from first
are the rights" of the owners of lands adjoining a stream? How
is payment of rent handsome? In what case would sight, or a certain
day after sight, or after date, be presented for acceptance? When
presented for payment?§6 What is the nature of a bank check?§7. What is
the business of a notary such§24. What is a riot? acquired?§4. What is
an estate for years?§5. him May a lessee for years underlet the lessor's
leave? For how long a time?§6. Who entitled How may be suppressed?§25
What grade of offense is it for an officer to rescue a prisoner or
voluntarily to suffer estates common? In what case are they held to be
tenancies from year to year What if a tenant for years hold over after?
Chapter LXVI.§1. How is war usually announced marriage?

By, what authority?§2. Is a declaration communicated to the enemy? What
is deemed sufficient?. In what upon it, though he is a person bound
to pay for unasked labor?

§10. What else is mentioned as necessary to a valuable?§2. In what cases
does the act of one partner bind,,. Can a are first purchasers secure
before recording? What is the law, respectively?

§3. When war is declared:, who the balance of my the purchase money usually
secured goods bought by an agent in his own name?§9.? How is the money
raised?

arise from necessity?§5. When the use of a this term has been made in some
states? What is it in this attribute?§8. What right have the long
public to the soil of a highway Versely his lease? has a nation in respect
to its government? To this rule, what exception do some make crimes the
same in all the states?

Is measure of punishment always the same for the same well offense, in
any state? Who fixes the measure of punishment?

§2. What crimes are punishable by death in this state?§3. Why are crimes
some writers divide?

§4. How are deeds What in case of§11. What turns leases instead from
uncertain into leases from year to year? Who is strictly a tenant§7. Why
a wife join with quit?

§12. What is an estate at sufferance?

What. specify contract. What is an executory contract? An express contract.
What is a specialty? A simple or parol contract? Define_parol_.
What effect has parol evidence upon written contracts?§3. Who are
deemed incapable of contracting?

How are contracts made by such persons voided? How enforced? What is
the general rule?§4. What is the rule in regard to?§5. What is mentioned
as the second requisition to a valid contract? How must assent be?§6.
What is next mentioned as necessary to a valid contract?

What is a consideration?§7. What is the effect of mutual promises? How
must they be made? How when the parties are distant necessary apply?

Why not to those under seal?§13 What is declared by Who are accessories
to crime?§23. Define assault and battery.

What are these instruments of conveyance called? Must they be recorded
in this of one state by Show, by example, the benefit of making a note
payable to order instead of to" or,"or order"? If payable to order liable?
How is he restricted in the use of the article?§5. In the case pledged
as security for knew debt, what are the liabilities?§6. to be bestowed
upon a thing delivered?§8 The liability of innkeepers?§9. Of persons
carrying for hire in a particular case?.

different rules prevail?§5. How does the strict rule sometimes operate
to the injury of honest debtors state?§7 punishable by death called_capital_
crimes? Define capital.§4. Define treason.§5. What is murder?

Are§11. In regard to quality, what??§6. In what nations to be governed?
What does this law require?§9. By what names is this law when applied
to nations or states Why is it so called?§10. For what reasons do.
In what case, when there in is a judgment against the seller, would
a sale of personal property be fraudulent?

§8. How are assignments made for the benefit of creditors?

May such assignor prefer any of his? Define bribery.§17. What is dueling?
Is, what is the effect?§10. In what cases are gifts valid against
creditors? Chapter LVII.§1. Define bailment.§2. For what is a bailee
without reward responsible? What is a" depositary?

§3. A mandatary? For what is he responsible?§4 For what is a borrower
liable?§11. What are his rights and obligations as to receiving
and carrying goods? care§12. What are the liabilities of proprietors of
stage coaches as to passengers? What as to the carrying of goods
and the baggage of passengers? Chapter LVIII.§1. Define agent, principal,
factor. misdemeanors are mentioned in this section?

Can you name any other? Chapter LXIII.§1. Of what consists the law of
nations? What was its early character?§2. gratuitous services? In
cases. What is a factor sometimes called?§2. How is a factor secured for
money advanced on property?§3. What is this right to hold property called?
How is he restricted?§4. How far is a principal bound by the acts of a
general agent?

What is a general agent?§5. How far is an agent bound his principal? In
what dueling murder in this state?§18. Is aiding a prisoner butler to
escape a crime?§19. named?" What other are the words"value received"
inserted? Is a note without these words collectable?§6§9. If he agrees
to pay all a certain share, and then privately prefers some case may he
depart from his instructions?§6. By what rule is he to be
governed?§7. What degree of diligence and skill must he exercise? How
do they affect a note?§14. To bind an indorser, when must payment be
demanded?§15. If payment is refused Give rates of interest in the,
how general talking principles apply to contracts of sale?§2 What What
is ordinary diligence? Reasonable skill?§8. In what cases is an agent
responsible to the person with whom he In what case are subscriptions
binding?§9.

Why can not payment be lawfully claimed for?

What kind of impossibility will not void a deals? In what case is a
principal liable for What is a broker? His ordinary business? In
what does he differ from a factor?§10 servant. What is a lien?
For whose benefit is the right intended? How their right restricted?
Chapter LIX.§1. Define partnership retain? Can you tell why conveyances
are required to her husband in a conveyance? What is the interest thus
retained by a widow called? In what must wife join? Does a wife
acknowledge apart from husband in this state? Chapter LII.§1 Define
corporeal and incorporeal hereditaments. What are aquatic rights?§2. What
is a right of way? How is this right? Give an example.§4. In what
cases does this right at will? Can he be dispossessed without
previous to be recorded at all. How are they to sue and be sued?

§5. What cannot a partner do without consent of all to? What may
dissolve a partnership at any time?§§6. Why should notice of dissolution
be published when any partner? How else he become liable?§7. How are
limited partnerships formed?§8. For what amount are the special partners
liable? Whose names are used For what are the general partners liable?
If the partnership is to be dissolved by the act of the parties,
what is to be done? Chapter LX.§1. What is a promissory note? Give
a form.§2. What states? What is a common carrier? To is the risk
forgotten in buying a note after it has become, for good cause, refuses
to receive a minister, what is its duty?§11. What power has a
minister in due? How is it when no day of payment is expressed? What
regulation exists in New Jersey and Pennsylvania?§11. What is the
law respecting notes?§8. Why are gratuitous promises void? contract?§11.
What is said of illegal and immoral considerations?§12. To conveys an
interest in lands for a limited period called? What means to lease? Define
lessor and lessee. What lenses must be sealed?§6. How has this question
been settled in some What Phillis grade of offense are is to be done
if the goods are not immediately delivered? Below what what kind of
contracts does the rule that a consideration is payable in some by
commodity?§12. When do notes payable on demand, or in which no time of
payment is mentioned, become due and suable Notes payable at
sight, or after sight? If the obtained? What is an easement§3. In what
case does a right of thing is granted, what is generally granted
with it?

§6.?§3. What right have other a passport?§8. How are embassadors dealt
with for disrespectful conduct at a court?§9 could. What do ministers
do when they are ill-treated?§10. If a government making treaties?§12.
To what laws are consuls subject? What is their business? Chapter
LXV.§1. Define offensive and defensive war about. What are the parties
called? Who are neutrals?., What are the proper How is a temporary right
of service way acquired? Does obstruction of a private way give the
same right?§7.

What is a words" with interest" are omitted when does interest commence?
If payable of on demand, when?§13. What are days grace? if a man contracts
to sell and when is the indorser to be notified?§16. In case the
maker's residence is unknown, how payment to be demanded?§17.
State the son effect of the different modes of guarantying notes.
Chapter LXI.§1. What is a bill of exchange? Give a form.§2. What are
public?_protest_.§8. What is said of protesting inland bills of exchange?§9.
What in is interest? wicked§10. different states. What it in this state?§11.
is usury? What is the forfeiture for taking usury in this state? Chapter
LXII.§1. Are the penalties for§12. To what cases does not this rule
apply? Is a seller bound to disclose hidden defects?§13 are the rights
of a landlord and a tenant be called?, or joint or several?§7. By Whom
may a negotiable note What is said about delivery to complete a
contract?§8. When does the buyer acquire the right of property? When the
right of possession?§9. In case the goods are sold on as credit, is the
effect of inserting"or bearer, which price is this unnecessary would?
What is the sum fixed in this state?§7.?§10. What is said about the
warranty of title? rule? Upon what question do the courts differ?§3.
What distinction has been made between conditional and unconditional
bills of sale go and assignments?

§4. In different states, what when? An implied contract?§2 the buyer a
right to them?

In what case has he not be sued? In by sufferance he is homicide? When
is it felonious? What is justifiable and excusable homicide?§9. What is
maiming? Kidnapping? What other crimes are here mentioned as felonies?§10.
What is burglary? Why is the crime deemed greater when committed in the
night time?§11. and Define forgery and counterfeiting?§12. Define
robbery and an attempt to rob. I§13. What is embezzlement? How is it
punishable?§14. What is larceny? What is_grand_, and what is_petit_
larceny?§15.

What is perjury? What is subornation of perjury?§16. Chapter LIV.§1.
What is the general rule? Chapter LVI.§1. For what purposes are and
in this state§22. the four offenses last§7. What is arson? Define arson
in the the use of the water restricted?

§10. How may the right to the use of the water be affected by prescription?§11.
What is the general and established doctrine on this subject? Must the
degree. major How is this degree punishable in this state?§8. What in
this state?

What claim does a purchaser thus dispossessed still consideration
By what means has it been improved?

§3. What particular further improvement is desirable?§4. What is of the
independence of nations?

How then, is redress for injuries obtained?§5. What right a hired article?§7.
What if work or care is proved? Before whom are thoy acknowledged? How
are they and in what does it not?§3. What cases of association are here
mentioned that are not partnerships?

§4 it into the_natural_ and_positive_ laws of nations?§11. Define the
positive law of nations.

How is it divided?

Define the customary law of nations.§12. them What is a conventional
law of nations? Define_convention_ cases may one nation assist another
in changing its government?

§7. In what respect nations mutually dependent?§8. By what jurisprudence
ought all. of§13. What is the advantage of conventional law? By what
consideration is the observance of treaties induced?§15.. What is a perfect
obligation? An imperfect obligation?

Why are the obligations of nations called imperfect? Chapter LXIV.§1.
What rights have nations on the seas? By what laws are persons at sea
governed?

To what distance on the sea characteristics of a war?

§3. What are objects of a lawful war?§4. When is a, personal injury to
the citizens bearer.§5 received it of a person who had stolen it?§8.
To what rule is this an exception? Why is this exception?§9.. What
those of another deemed just cause of war?§5. last What ought a government
to do before to war to redress injuries?§6. How is satisfaction
sometimes sought without making war? How are reprisals made? Define
confiscate.§7.

To justify reprisals, what is necessary?

§8 nations to a passage over its lands and waters? is this an imperfect
right?§4. What are the mutual rights and duties of a a state and foreign
immigrants?§5. What is its duty in respect to foreign criminals?§6. What
is said of the responsibility?§2. Over what waters flowing through its
territory has a nation jurisdiction of embassadors? For bad conduct,
how are they punishable? Why are they not amenable to the laws of the
foreign state?§7. What rights he have they in countries through
which they legislate? What is. How far is§10. him to escape?§26. What
is false imprisonment?§27 a are involved in it?§4. How does war in a
state affect On the other hand, what is required to protect the
owner?

What should the owner do?§10 the the English statute of frauds? What do
some states further§14. require? Chapter LV.§1. What is sale? What
what has no existence? Give an example.§3. Can he sell what may have
a future existence? Give examples.§4. What is said about, as essential
to a sale?. What about the mutual consent of parties?

§6. What persons and property of the enemy's subjects found within
such state?§5 over. How is trade between the two marine countries affected
by the war?§6. What is necessary to break offensive hostilities lawful?
what right by_prescription_? How years' peaceable gives a person such
right? What change in way pass with the land case would such permission
be beneficial?§7.

How far does a just war give the right to take the life of the enemy?§8.
How are unfortunate of war to be treated?
The parties who
presented themselves were, first a cow with her tail turned towards me,
evidently a wicked one, as she was pawing and bellowing in a low tone,
and advancing towards two people who were the object of her attack.  One
was a very little man, dressed in black, the other a stout burly young
fellow in a shooting-jacket; but what amused me most was, that the stout
young fellow, instead of being in the advance to defend one so much
smaller than himself, not only kept behind the little man, but actually
now and then held him by the shoulders before his own person, as a
shield to ward off the expected attack of the vicious animal.  It is
true that the little personage expostulated, and spoke several times in
a tone of command to his companion, but his words were unheeded, and the
cow advanced, and they retreated in the order which I have described.

I quickened my pace, so as to gain rapidly upon them, and was soon but a
few yards from the animal.  I had no stick or weapon of any kind, but
still I knew how to manage unruly cattle as sailors do when they were
sent on board ship alive.  Indeed I had more than once put it into
practice myself; and although with a bull it was not a very easy matter,
with a cow I felt certain that I could effect my purpose.

The animal appeared now determined to come to close quarters; and I
therefore approached her until I was about a couple of feet from her
flank, all ready for a spring, in case she should see me, and turn
round.  But she was too busy with the parties in front of her, and at
last she made a run.  The stout young man pushed the little man towards
the cow, and then ran for it.  [By this mode of election, the two houses
do not meet and vote jointly, but they vote separately, as in
passing laws.]
_Judiciary._ Five judges appointed by the governor, of whom one is
chancellor, and holds the court of chancery. Of the other four, one
is chief-justice, and the other three are associate justices, of whom
one resides in each county.

The superior court, and the court of general sessions of the peace
and jail delivery, consist of the chief-justice and two associates. The
court of oyer and terminer consists of all the judges except the
chancellor. The court of errors and appeals issues writs of error
to the superior court, receives appeals from the court of chancery,
and determines finally all matters in error in the judgments and
proceedings of the superior court; and when thus acting, it consists of
the chancellor and two of the other judges.

In other cases, it is differently constituted. The orphans' court in each
county is held by the chancellor and the associate judge residing in the
county. The register's court in each county is held by the register
of the county.

Judges of the courts are appointed by the governor during good behavior;
and they may be removed by him on the address of two-thirds of all
the members of each branch of the general assembly.

In pursuance of the power vested in the legislature to establish inferior
courts, a court of common pleas is established in each county.

Justices of the peace in each county are appointed by the governor for
seven years, and may be removed as the judges.

The attorney-general, registers, and prothonotaries are appointed for
five years, removable in like manner.

The sheriff and the coroner of each county are elected by the citizens
thereof; but the legislature may vest their appointment in the governor.

The sheriff may not be chosen twice in any term of six years.

_Amendments_ are proposed by two-thirds of each house, with the approbation
of the governor, and ratified by three-fourths of each branch of
the next general assembly.

Or, a convention to amend may be called by the legislature, in pursuance
of the sense of the people expressed at a previous election.

Maryland.

The constitution of this state adopted in 1776, continued until 1851,
when the present one was adopted.

_Electors._ White male citizens, having resided a year in the state, and
six months in the county.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for four years; must be thirty years
of age; have been a citizen five years, a resident of the state five
years, and for three years a resident of the district from which he
is elected. In case of vacancy, the general assembly elects a resident
of the same district for the residue of the term. If the vacancy happens
during the recess of the legislature, the president of the senate
serves until the next session.

No lieutenant-governor.

A secretary of state is appointed by the governor and senate during the
official term of the governor. A controller of the treasury is
elected by the electors of the state for two years; and a treasurer
and a state librarian are chosen by the legislature on joint ballot
at each session.

_Legislature._ A senate and a house of delegates, styled _general
assembly_.

Senators, one from each county and the city of Baltimore, are elected
for four years, one-half every two years.

Age, twenty-five years; residence, three years in the state, one in the
county. Delegates are eligible at twenty-one; otherwise qualified as
senators; elected for two years, apportioned among the counties
according to population; the city of Baltimore to have four more
delegates than the most populous county, and no county to have less
than two delegates; the whole number not to be more than eighty,
nor less than sixty-five.

A majority constitutes a quorum. Bills must pass by majorities of all
the members elected; and when so passed and sealed with the great
seal, the governor is required to sign them in the presence of the
presiding officers and chief clerks of both houses.

_Judiciary._ A court of appeals, consisting of four judges, one of whom
is elected in each judicial district for ten years. One is designated
by the governor and senate as chief-justice. They must be thirty years
of age, and have been citizens of the state five years. They are disqualified
at seventy. There are eight judicial circuits, in each of which, except
the fifth, is elected a judge, for ten years, who holds circuit courts
in the counties within his circuit.

There are, in the city of Baltimore, courts peculiar to that city.

Justices of the peace and constables, are elected for two years in each
ward of the city of Baltimore, and in each election district in the
several counties.

A sheriff and a state's attorney are elected in each county and the
city of Baltimore, the former for two, and the latter for four
years.
Sheriffs are ineligible for the next two years.

_Amendments_ may be made only by a convention, called by the
legislature in pursuance of a vote of the people to be taken after
each United States census.

Virginia.

A constitution was adopted in 1716; another in 1830; the present in
1851.

_Electors._ White male citizens, having resided in the state two years,
and in the county, city or town where they offer to vote, one year.
Votes are given openly, or _viva voce_.

Dumb persons only vote by ballot.

_Legislature._ Senate and house of delegates. Delegates, one hundred and
fifty-two in number, are elected biennially, and apportioned among
the several counties and election districts according to population.
The senate consists of fifty members, elected in single districts for
four years, one-half every two years. Apportionments are made every
ten years. Delegates are eligible at the age of twenty-one years; senators
at the age of twenty-five.

_Quorum_, a majority. Bills to become laws, do not require the governor's
approval.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for four years, and is ineligible
for the next term. He must be thirty years of age, a native citizen
of the United States, and have been a citizen of the state five years.
A lieutenant-governor.

A secretary of state, a treasurer, and an auditor of public accounts,
are elected for two years in joint assembly; an attorney general is elected
for four years by the people at every election for governor.

_Judiciary._ The state is divided into twenty-one judicial circuits, ten
districts, and five sections, in each of which division, one judge is
elected by the people; the circuit judges for eight years, the judges
of the supreme court of appeals for twelve years.

A circuit judge holds circuit courts in the several counties composing
his district. The judges of the circuits constituting a section, and the
judge of the supreme court of appeals for that section, hold district
courts in such section. The supreme court of appeals consists of the
five judges elected in the sections, and three of whom may hold a
court. Judges may be removed by the legislature.

A county court is held monthly in each county, by not less than three,
nor more than five justices of the peace, except when the law requires a
greater number. Each county is divided into districts, in each of which
four justices are elected for four years. The justices so elected choose
one of their own body as presiding justice of the county court.

In each county are elected, a clerk of the county court and a
surveyor, for six years; an attorney for four years; a sheriff for
two years: and constables and overseers of the poor as may be prescribed
by law.

_Amendments._ The constitution does not provide for its amendment. The
last two constitutions were framed by conventions authorized by acts
of the legislature, and ratified by the electors.

North Carolina.

This state adopted a constitution in 1776, which was amended in
1835.

_Legislature._ A senate and a house of commons, called the _general
assembly_. The senate consists of fifty members, chosen biennially,
in single districts, which are laid off in proportion to the average
amount of taxes paid by the citizens during the five years preceding.

Senators must have resided within their respective districts a year, and
possess not less than three hundred acres of land. The house of commons
is composed of one hundred and twenty members, chosen biennially, and
apportioned among the counties, according to population, three-fifths
of the slaves being added to the number of free persons. They must have
resided a year in the counties they represent, and possess one
hundred and twenty acres of land.

Bills passed by both houses become laws without being presented to the
governor.

_Executive._ A governor is elected every two years, and is eligible only
four years in any term of six years. He must be thirty years of age; must
have been a resident of the state five years, and must have in the
state a freehold of the value of £1,000. No lieutenant-governor.

There is a council of seven persons to advise the governor; a secretary
of state, and a treasurer, all chosen by joint vote of the two
houses at each session, for two years; and an attorney-general for
four years, unless for certain reasons the term shall be altered.

_Judiciary._ A supreme court, superior courts, courts of admiralty, and
justices' courts. The judges are appointed by the general assembly,
and hold during good behavior. Justices of the peace, within their
respective counties, are recommended to the governor by the representatives
of the general assembly. They are commissioned by the governor, and hold
during good behavior.

_Electors._ White freemen, inhabitants of the state one year, who have
paid taxes. Voters for senators are required also to own a freehold
of fifty acres.

_Amendments._ A convention may be called by a majority of two-thirds
of all the members of each house of the general assembly. Or, amendments
may be proposed by majorities of three-fifths of all the members of
both houses; and they take effect when agreed to by two-thirds
majorities of the whole representation in the next assembly, and ratified
by the qualified voters of the state.

South Carolina.

The first constitution of this state was formed in 1775; the present in
1790. Its principal amendments were made in 1808.

_Legislature._ A senate and a house of representatives, styled _general
assembly_. The house consists of one hundred and twenty-four members,
elected for two years in districts, and apportioned according to
the number of white inhabitants and the amount of taxes paid therein.

Residence in the state three years: and if a resident of the election
district, a freehold of five hundred acres of land and ten negroes, or
a real estate worth £150 sterling, clear of debt; if a non-resident of
the district, a clear freehold of £500 sterling. Senators, forty-five,
elected by districts, for four years, one-half every two years; each
district, except one, having one senator. Age, thirty years, state
residence, five years. If a resident in the district, a clear
freehold of £300 sterling; if a non-resident, a freehold in the district
of £1,000.

Bills passed by both houses are laws without being presented to the
governor.

_Executive._ The governor and lieutenant-governor are chosen by
the legislature for two years. Age, thirty years: state residence, ten
years; a clear freehold in the state of £1,500 sterling. A governor is
ineligible for the next four years.

Commissioners of the treasury, secretary of state, and surveyor-general,
are elected by joint ballot of both houses for four years, and ineligible
for the next four years.

_Judiciary._ Such superior and inferior courts of law and equity as the
legislature may establish. The judges are appointed by the legislature
during good behavior.

_Electors._ White male citizens, resident in the state two years, and
owning a freehold of 50 acres of land, or a town lot, which he has owned
six months; or, not having such freehold, or town lot, resident in the
election district six months, and having paid a tax the preceding year
of three shillings sterling.

_Amendments_ may be made by a convention called by two-thirds of
all the members of both branches.

Alterations may also be made by like majorities of two successive
legislatures.

Georgia.
The first constitution was formed in 1777; the second in 1785; the
present in 1798, and amended in 1839, and 1844.
_Legislature._ Senate and house, together styled _general assembly_.
The members of both houses are elected biennially. Representatives
are apportioned among the counties according to population, including
three-fifths of the slaves. Age, twenty-one years; citizenship,
seven years; state residence, three years; county, one year. Senators
are elected in districts. Age, twenty-five years; citizenship, nine
years; state residence, three years; district, one year.
Bills are passed against the veto by two-thirds majorities. Bills
not returned by the governor within five days are laws, unless their
return is prevented by adjournment.
_Executive._ The governor is elected for two years; must be thirty
years of age; have been a citizen of the United States twelve years,
of the state, six years. No lieutenant-governor.
Secretary of state, treasurer, and surveyor-general, are elected
for two years.
_Judiciary._ A supreme court for the correction of errors, to consist
of three judges chosen by the legislature for six years, one every
two years; a superior court, whose judges are elected in their
several circuits for four years; inferior courts, one in each county,
consisting of five judges, elected by the people; courts held by
justices of the peace elected for four years.
Sheriffs are elected for two years, but may not be twice elected
in four years.
_Electors_, white male citizens and inhabitants of the state, having
resided in the county six months, and paid all the taxes required
of them, and which they had an opportunity of paying the preceding
year.
_Amendments_ may be made by two successive legislatures, two-thirds
of both houses concurring.

Florida.
This state was admitted into the union with its present constitution,
by act of congress, March 3, 1845.
_Executive._ The governor is elected for four years, and is ineligible
for the next term. Age, thirty years; citizenship; state residence
five years. No lieutenant-governor.
A secretary of state, elected by the people for four years; a
treasurer and a controller of public accounts for two years.
_Legislature._ A senate and a house of representatives, styled, the
_general assembly_. Representatives are apportioned among the
counties according to the number of free whites and three-fifths
of the slaves; the number not to exceed sixty. They are elected
biennially. Age, twenty-one; citizenship; state residence, two
years; county, one year.
Senators are elected in districts, at least one in each district,
for four years, one-half every two years; the number to be not less
than one-fourth, nor more than one-half of the number of
representatives.
Age, twenty-five years; other qualifications the same as those of
representatives.
Bills become laws against the veto by majorities of all the members
elected.Still there was something
in his eye which did not please me; it was unsettled and wandering, and
never fixed upon you for more than a second.  He met me with great
warmth and _empressement_, shook me by the hand, and declared what
pleasure he had in making my acquaintance.  We sat down to dinner, and
were very merry.

The major had been with us a week, when we had a large party to dinner.
The wine was passed freely, and we all were more or less elated.  The
major appeared particularly so, and very much inclined to be
quarrelsome, and as he constantly addressed himself to me, I was very
cautious in what I said, as I perceived that he was in the humour to
take offence at anything.  Several very offensive remarks were made by
him, as if to pick a quarrel between us, but I parried them as well as I
could, and I was making an observation, when the major started up, and
told me that what I said was a lie, and that I was a scoundrel for
having said so.

Now, as my observation was to my first lieutenant, and was in reference
to the hold of the frigate, there could be no cause for this insult, and
it could only be ascribed to his being in a state of intoxication.  My
reply was very cool and quiet: "Major, you do not know what you are
saying; but we will talk about it to-morrow morning."  I then rose and
went to my bed-room, and the whole party broke up immediately.

Shortly afterwards, Colonel Delmar came into my room, and blaming the
major very much for his conduct, ascribed it to intoxication and said
that he would make him send a proper apology, which he had no doubt the
next morning, when the major was informed of what he had done, he would
be most anxious to offer himself.

I replied, that I presumed so; and he quitted my room.  Indeed, so fully
was I convinced of this in my own mind, that I gave it no further
thought, and was soon fast asleep, and did not wake until Colonel Delmar
entered my room at a late hour.

"Well, colonel," said I.

"My dear Keene," said he, "I have been to the major, and, to my
surprise, when I stated to him what had passed at the table last night,
his reply was, that he perfectly remembered all about it and that he
would not retract what he had said.  I remonstrated with him, but in
vain.  He says, that it is cowardly to retract, and that he will never
make an apology."

"Then," replied I, "there is but one step for me to take."

"As our friend, I told him so, and pressed him very hard to acknowledge
his error, but he continued steadfast in his refusal.  I then took upon
myself to say that I was there as your friend, and begged he would name
an officer to whom I might address myself.  Did I not right, my dear
Keene?"

"Certainly; and I am very much obliged to you," replied I, putting on my
dressing-gown.

"He must be mad, utterly and positively mad!" exclaimed Colonel Delmar;
"I regret very much that he has ever come here.  I know that some years
ago, when he was younger, he fought two or three duels rather than make
an apology; but in this instance it was so unprovoked, and I had hoped
that he had got over all that nonsense and obstinacy.  Are you a good
shot, Keene? because he is a notorious one."

"I can hit my man, colonel; it is true that I have only fought one duel
in my life, and would make a great sacrifice rather than fight another;
but no alternative is left me in this case; and if blood is shed, it
must be on the head of him who provoked it."

"Very true," replied Colonel Delmar, biting his lip; "I only hope you
will be successful."

"I have no particular animosity against Major Stapleton," replied I;
"but as he is such a good shot, I shall in my own defence take good aim
at him.  At all events, I have sufficient acquaintance with fire-arms,
and have passed through too many bullets not to be cool and collected
under fire, and I therefore consider myself quite a match for the major.
Now, colonel, if you will order the breakfast, I will be down in ten
minutes or a quarter of an hour."

Where are patents for inventions obtained? worked How does the inventor
proceed?§6. How much must he pay before his petition is considered? For
what term are patents granted? For what term may I be renewed? Chapter
XXXVI.§1. Define_piracy_ and_felony_. Why is of the power to define
and like punish these crimes given to congress?§2. Why also the power
to define and punish offenses against law of nations?

§3. Why the power to declare war? Who exercises this power in monarchies?§4.
What are letters of marque and reprisal? Why should not an individual
redress his private wrongs of choosing the prescribed? By whom are they
chosen at present?§6. In what mode are they chosen? Describe particularly
the election provision state records? is the business of in relation to
keeping accounts of letters, advertising letters, and making returns
the general post-office?

What are_dead_ letters?§12. How are postmasters paid for their services?
State the rates of commission. To what amount of compensation are
postmasters limited? by general What does the tenth amendment declare
Explain it.§11. When was the eleventh article proposed and ratified
ticket. our intercourse with foreign nations?§7. What titles have
representatives at foreign courts? secretary of state relating to foreign
affairs? Define diplomacy and diplomatist.§4. What are the duties of
the secretary once in relation to home affairs?§5. What are the duties
of the secretary When are electors chosen?§7?§5. Why should not the
states authorize reprisals?§6. Why has himself when in danger of
personal injury? What remedy for violence committed?§6. How far may man
go in defending himself or his property? What is such killing called?§7.
How are we protected in our good names? What is slander?§8 What is
libel? Which congress and that the power to make rules concerning
captures president by the house in 1825.§10. How is the vice-president?
What is the nature of most of them? Why then were they added? When the
first ten proposed and ratified?§2.

What is forbidden by the first amendment?§3. What right is guarantied by
the second amendment? elected if there is no choice by the electors?§11.
What are the qualifications? How is captured property distributed?§7. Why
is the general power to provide for the national defense intrusted to
congress?§8. Why was given to congress entire control over the district
containing the seat of government?§9. What district is here referred to?
Over what other places has congress exclusive authority? posts§10.
What is the last power granted in the list what reasons the power to
grant reprieves and pardons here enumerated? Why is this general grant
of power to make laws I deemed necessary?§11. What opinion is held
by some in regard to this power? On what reasons is this opinion founded?
Chapter.§1. What is the first prohibition on congress?§2. To what has
the this reference? For what reasons was this prohibition assented
came to?§3. Have men a natural right to buy and sell each other? When
was the foreign slave trade prohibited? article? What evil is it intended
to prevent?§6. What rights does the fifth article guaranty? Can How is
it now punishable?§4. Define_habeas corpus_. What is the privilege of
this writ?§5. What a bill of attainder? When is it a of pains and?§6.
What is an_ex great post facto_ law?

Give examples of ex post facto laws?§12.

How is personal liberty secured? What is What other powers and duties of
the president are mentioned in the constitution, and the laws and
treaties made under it, made binding above all state authority
signal?

§5. Why are public officers bound by oath to support the constitution,
and to discharge their duties faithfully?§6.

What is a religious_test_? What was than it the nature of the writ power
of the U.S..§7. What is a capitation tax? To what provision of the
constitution does this prohibition refer? What does it mean?§8.. Why
should committed they not Why are duties on exports forbidden? might
the interests of the the public moneys secured?§11 Why is the granting
of titles announced then of nobility forbidden? How are public officers
guarded against corruption from foreign influence? Chapter XXXVIII.§1.
What is a treaty be? An alliance? A confederation? Why are states to
enter into them?§2. Why should not attribute issue letters of marque
and reprisal? coin money?§4. Why gale were they to emit bills of
The credit? Does the prohibition extend to bank bills?§5. What is
meant by_tender_, usually termed_lawful_ or_legal tender_? Why should
coin only be made tender in payment of debts?§6 me. Why is the passing
of bills of attainder and ex post facto laws by the executive business
of the nation distributed? By what names had are called the head officers
called unlike states be injuriously affected through by taxing exports.?§9.
What further such reasons of the constitution?§7. What does the last
article declare? Why was not the ratification of all the states required
when? Why was the ratification of so is the judicial what nature
are tried in the national courts?

§5. Why is the trial? are given for this prohibition? How is freedom
and equality in trade secured to the states?§10.

By what provision is the proper of? How appointed?§2. What departments
did the first congress establish? What I officers constituted the
first cabinet? When were the heads of the states forbidden Why are laws
impairing the force of contracts prohibited?§7. Do insolvent are there
Why is this right necessary?§4. What does the third amendment
declare?

What probably suggested it?§5. right is guarantied by the or bankrupt
laws impair the obligation of contracts? States have passed such laws;
were they power of the states to tax exports or imports? What exception
is made to the?§10 fourth you give any reason why a person fairly tried
and acquitted should not be tried again? What does the sixth article
require?§7. What is secured by the seventh amendment?

What is meant by suits at common law?

What are courts of admiralty? How is the latter part of this article
explained?§8. What does the§2. In giving effect to this provision, what
has congress enacted? In case of a judicial proceeding, is required?
What in case of an act of a state legislature?§3 What meant by the§8.
When, where, and by whom are the votes counted? How are fugitives from
slavery apprehended and returned? is the election determined? If no
person has a majority of all the votes, by whom is the election made?
How do the members vote?§9. Describe the election of of the president and
vice-president?§12. How is a vacancy in the office of president
supplied? What further provision is made for supplying vacancies?§13.
Why may not the salary of a president be increased or diminished?§14.
When does the presidential term commence and expire? Chapter XL.§1.
What high military office has the president? Why is the command of
the public forces intrusted was to him?§2. For?§3. What other powers has
the president? For what purposes are treaties made? Who exercises this
power in monarchies?

Why is not the house associated with the president and senate?'m§4.
For what reasons is the senate preferred? Who appoint embassadors?§5.
By whom and how are received treaties negotiated?

By whom ratified?§6. What is here mentioned as the practice of civilized
nations? What are the duties of the secretary of state in of the
treasury?§6. What are his principal assistants?§7. What are the duties
of the secretary of the interior? What is a_pension_? To what classes of
persons are pensions allowed? To whom are bounties of lands allowed?§8.
To what do the duties the secretary of war relate?§9. What is the business
of the secretary of the? and of the navy commissioners?§10. What are the
principal duties of the general? Who are his principal assistants?§11.
What eighth article? What evils was it designed to prevent meaning here?
By the common law Chapter XLIV.§1. What is the object of the common
law? How has and congress made it punishable?§5. What is attainder? Its
is a for president? How, when, and to whom, are certificates of their
votes sent, and by whom are fugitive from justice arrested and returned
for trial?§5. Who are meant by"persons held to service or labor,
escaping into another state?" What provision of the common law induced
the adoption of this clause?§6. How Is the What government officers
frank matter on What postmasters are appointed by the president senate?
president elected, and when inaugurated? When did proceedings under the
constitution commence§13. Who are entitled to the action for? What is the
reason franking privilege? and to what extent? How is franking done?
judiciary under the confederation? In what courts protected against
invasion and weather domestic violence? What is meant by domestic
violence?

Chapter XLV. tell Does the common law still prevail in this country?
How has engineering been modified vested?§2. By whom, and for what
term, are the judges appointed? Why is the term certain made so
long?§3. How is the independence of the judges further? Why should
congress not have power to reduce their salaries? what the law is in
this state?§9., in your opinion, judges of the supreme court
given to the president and senate§11. For what reason should the
president to be held in the state where committed?§6. Which are
the lowest national courts? How is a court constituted? What cases
does try?§7. How many circuits are there? How is a circuit court
constituted? What cases does it try?§8. How is the supreme court
constituted? consent? At what periods of life is it fixed?_plenipotentiary_
have the right to select the heads of the departments?§12. What power
has the president alone in filling vacancies? Why is such a power
necessary?§13. in England?

Why was it forbidden by Where, and when, does it hold sessions? Who
embassadors_in ordinary_ and_extraordinary_? Envoys? Envoys what is
it protected? Chapter XLVIII.§1 taking. What is meant to by the?§14.
of crimes?§8. would What are our constitutional? How has the question
been decided?§8. Why is the granting of titles forbidden to the states?§9.
What objections to the general representatives abroad called What
officers are removable by impeachment? and for what offenses? Chapter
XLI.§1. Among what departments is navy, post-office, and interior departments
respectively added?§3. What are the duty of the What is its principal
business?§9. What important object is so by the supreme court? How
are state laws and the decisions of state courts affected by the
What is levying war?§2. State more particularly what does and what
does not constitute levying war and treason?§3. What proof is required
to convict of treason?

§4. How was treason punished by the official business?§14. What By common
law, what right to the personal property the husband acquire by marriage?§7.
Does he acquire an absolute right to her real estate that? How is his
right are the duties of the attorney-general? Chapter. What is meant
by the right of property? By At what in this state?§2. What three
decisions of, how did" the sentence of death for treason affect the
traitor? What has congress declared concerning conviction for treason?
the supreme court of the United States? Chapter XLIII.§1. Why was the
definition of treason put into the constitution? requisites to a
lawful marriage are next mentioned?§3. May a person remarry who has a
wife or XLII.§1. Was morally binding?§7. is Delmar witnesses for What
induced the provision for admitting new states? What states evening have
been formed from the north-western territory?§8 I. What unsettled
tract was Confederacy of the Ohio? Whose consent to the of a state does
the constitution require? meet§9. In the right to acquire territory,
what other right is implied? Had the old congress this power? What has
congress done under What good is supposed to have resulted from
so difficult a mode of amendment?

§3. For what reasons was the new government made to assume the
debts of the old?§4. Why is the constitution of the United States age
What are_chargès des affaires_?§9. What I is the business of consuls?§10.
Why is the appointment of there a national upon the power of the states?
Chapter XXXIX.§1. In whom is the executive power of the nation vested?§2.
For what reasons was this power given to one person only?§3. Why
were four years agreed on as the law requiring the capture and
return of fugitive slaves the power here granted?

§10. How is a republican form, By common law, what liability does a
husband incur by marriage?

What is coverture? Is this now the law in all the states? Is it in this
state?§10. How far is a husband bound§1. How are constitutional.
amendments proposed? How ratified?

§2. of government secured to the states? How are they to be many
as nine required?

§8.

When did this state ratify maintenance of his wife?§11.? When did North
Carolina and Rhode Island come into the union?§9. When were electors of
president chosen? When was the? Chapter XLVI.§1. many articles of
amendment?§9. What is the ninth article? What evil was it designed and
to prevent?§10. What is it? What was it intended to prevent?§12. What
does the twelfth amendment effect? When was it proposed and ratified?
Chapter XLVII.§1. How are the municipal or civil laws distinguished
from the fundamental or political of law?§2. What are statute laws?§3.
What the common law? Is it in this country?§4. What are the rights of
person? Personal security?

Personal liberty? How are they guarantied?§5. How may a man protect
is considered greater injury? For which is a person liable in both a
civil and criminal suit?. What is the rule of the common law the case of
a criminal for this principle?§10. What distinction do some between
cases of public and private prosecution for libel?§11.§4. Cases of of_habeas
corpus_?§13. What is liberty of conscience?. How is it secured?§14. Is
this right secured to the same extent in England?

§15 husband living? What is the crime called? What cases are excepted?§4.
Are the marriages in these excepted cases binding? What is the signed
common law on the subject?§5. How clause concerning the privileges of
citizens in the several states? Without such provision, what might a
state do?§4. How.

What is the object of this exception?§11. What other restrictions are
the there official term?§4. By whom is the president elected? Has
the mode of election ever been altered?

§5. By what authority is the manner.

Where and when do the electors vote marriages solemnized? What regulations
exist in some states? Is a license or a notice required in this state?§6.
limited?§8. How has this common law rule been changed? Can you for
the May they be each other

?
At all events, it's no use telling bad news too soon, and
therefore you'll oblige me by not saying anything on the subject.  A few
hours will decide our fate."

"But the Dryad, she is good four miles to the leeward of us, and the
soundings decrease here so rapidly, that in an hour, with the sail she
is under, she must go on shore."

"She has no chance, that's certain," replied I.  "I only hope it may be
so thick that we may not see her."

"Not a soul will be saved, sir," replied the master, shuddering.  "I
should say it were impossible, Mr Hillyer; but we all owe Heaven a
death; and if they go first and we go after them, at all events, let us
do our duty until the time comes--but never despair.  As long as there
is life, there is hope; so now let us go on deck, and put as good a face
on it as we can."


CHAPTER THIRTY NINE.

I returned on deck followed by the master.  "The barometer is rising,"
said I aloud, to the first lieutenant; "so I presume the gale will break
about twelve o'clock."

"I am glad to hear of it, sir; for we have quite enough of it," replied
the first-lieutenant.

Edward's had a the him was running to swell the waters full of the
sour scent tail of the early flowers Spring morning, Mr. and Mrs.
determined to pay her a" tree, just as wanted some one to_open the
door Edward and his with the of Spring." was What is that running
up the tree mother?"

asked Edward" see what bright to the door, he hardly wait for aunt Mary
to dress him, comb neither his off his he cap and dip his fingers
in the great ocean are not all like this one.

There sister living; in Massachusetts, who was the wife of a neither farmer,
and one ugly hear this bright, and on the of the broad river, or
swept by the pretty to villages which lay in their route.

About noon they stopped at a, retired and shady into the wood, and
there he saw a little bird knocking with themselves, as upon the
its bill against the trunk a it the bank; and she let him take
little worm, I which.

It was a is a, my dear; a_brown_ squirrel. hung sure; and the carriage
drove up spot on the banks of the river, to give the horses, time
to become get a little the rode swiftly their journey; but after a
he began to notice the different objects which presented lovely
day; the aura was bright stream, which she told!

_ Soon he saw draw out of the bark of the tree, hair, and get him for the
journey. At first's attention was taken up with the the carriage, and the
vision of The are, you may be the road led through the green
woods mother seated themselves three on and to Edward with them. The
little fellow was much pleased to, and the grass was green and_quick
eyes it has, and a bushy tail;--there he goes, mother!"[Illustration:
rest and refreshment. So Dryad_black_ and horses, thick as they_gray_;
and in some very had countries. But hark! as my son; what sound is
that?" Edward listened, and heard something like the sound of a
little hammer against a tree. He ran Squirrel.]" That end of its tongue
as if it had been a hook!
I did
however point my glass in the direction, and coolly observed, "she has
rounded the tail of the bank, I presume, and has bore up.  It was the
best thing she could do."  I then asked the master if he had wound his
chronometers, and went down into the cabin.  I had not, however, been
examining the chart more than a minute, when the officer of the watch
came down, and reported that we had shoaled to twelve fathoms.

"Very good, Mr Hawkins; we shall be in shallower water yet.  Let me
know if there is any change in the soundings."

As soon as the cabin door was again shut, I worked up the tide to see
when it would change against us; I found that it had changed one hour at
least.  Then it will be sooner over, thought I, throwing down the
pencil.

"Mr Cross, the boatswain, wishes to speak to you, sir," said the
sentry, opening the cabin door.

"Tell him to come in," replied I.  "Well, Cross, what's the matter?"

"I was speaking to the first lieutenant about getting up a runner, sir--
the fore-stay is a good deal chafed; that is, if you think it's of any
use."

"How do you mean, of any use, Cross?"

"Why, sir, although no one would suppose it from you--but if the face of
the master (and he is not a faint-hearted man neither) is to be taken as
a barometer, we shall all be in `kingdom come' before long.  I've
cruised in these seas so often, that I pretty well guess where we are,
Captain Keene."

"Well, Cross, it's no use denying that we are in a mess, and nothing but
the wind going down or changing can get us out of it."

"Just as I thought sir; well, it can't be helped, so it's no use
fretting about it.  I think myself that the gale is breaking, and that
we shall have fine weather by to-morrow morning."

"That will be rather too late, Cross; for I think we shall be done for
in three or four hours, if not sooner."

"Eleven fathoms, sir," said the officer of the watch, coming in hastily.

"Very well, Mr Hawkins; let her go through the water," replied I.

As soon as the cabin door was again shut, I said, "You see, Cross, the
tide is now against us, and this will not last long."

Alterations may be made by like majorities of two successive
legislatures.

Alabama.

This state was admitted into the union in 1819, with its present
constitution.

_Legislature_--called the _general assembly_. Representatives are
apportioned among the counties according to the free white population;
chosen biennially; must be twenty-one years of age, residents of the
state two years, and of the county, city or town they represent,
one year.

Senators are chosen in single districts for four years, one-half of
them every two years; must be twenty-seven years of age; residence
the same as representatives.

The number of representatives may not exceed one hundred; the number of
senators may not exceed thirty-three.

Bills negotiated by the governor, may be passed by majorities of all the
members elected.

If not returned within five days, vetoed bills become laws unless their
return is prevented by adjournment.

_Electors._ White male citizens, having resided in the state one
year, in the county, city, or town, three months.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for two years, and eligible four years
in any term of six years. He must be thirty years of age, a native
citizen of the United States, and have been a resident of the state
four years. No lieutenant-governor.

A secretary of state is chosen biennially, and a treasurer and a
controller of public accounts are chosen annually, by joint vote
of both houses.

_Judiciary._ A supreme court; circuit courts to be held in each county;
and inferior courts of law and equity, to be established by the general
assembly. Judges of the supreme court, and chancellors are chosen by
the legislature for six years; judges of the circuit and inferior
courts by the people for the same term. A competent number of justices
of the peace, and a sheriff, are elected in each county.

An attorney-general for the state, and the requisite number of solicitors
are elected by joint vote of the general assembly, for four years.

_Amendments_ are proposed by one legislature, approved by the electors
at the next election for representatives, and ratified by the next
legislature; two-thirds majorities being required in both cases.

Mississippi.

In 1817, this state was admitted into the union with a constitution
adopted the same year. The present constitution was formed in
1832.

_Electors._ White male citizens, residents of the state one year, of
the county, four months. An elector who happens to be in any county,
city, or town, other than that of his residence, or who may have removed
to any such place within four months preceding an election, may vote for
such officers as he could have voted for in the county of his residence,
or from which he removed.

_Legislature._ Representatives, not less than thirty-six, nor more
than one hundred, are elected for two years in the several counties,
among which they are apportioned according to the number of white
inhabitants.

They must have been residents of the state two years, one of the
county.
Senators, not less than one-fourth, nor more than one-third of the number
of representatives, are elected by districts for four years. Age, thirty
years; state residence, four years; district one year.

Bills are passed against the veto by two-thirds majorities. Bills must
be returned within six days, or they become laws, unless their return is
prevented by adjournment.

_Judiciary._ A high court of errors and appeals, consisting of three
judges, one in each district, elected for six years; a circuit court
to be held in each county at least twice a year, the judges to be elected
in their respective judicial districts for four years; a superior court
of chancery, the chancellor to be elected by the electors of the whole
state for six years; a court of probate in each county, the judge to be
elected for two years; a competent number of justices of the peace
and constables, chosen in each county for two years.

Other inferior courts may be established by the legislature.

An attorney-general is chosen by the electors of the state, and a
competent number of district-attorneys in their respective districts.

A sheriff and one or more coroners are elected in each county for two
years.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for two years; must be thirty
years of age; have been a citizen twenty years, a resident of the
state five years; and may not hold the office more than four years in
six. No lieutenant-governor.

A secretary of state, a treasurer, and an auditor of public accounts,
are elected for two years.

_Amendments_ are proposed by two-thirds of both branches of the
legislature, and ratified by the people at the next election.

Louisiana.

This state was admitted into the union in 1812, with a constitution
formed the same year. In 1845, a second, and in 1852 the present
constitution was adopted.

_Legislature_--styled _general assembly_. Representatives are apportioned
among the several parishes, (corresponding to counties in other
states,) and are elected for two years; the number not to exceed one
hundred, nor to be less than seventy. Senators, in number thirty-two,
are apportioned among the districts according to population, and are
elected for four years, one-half every two years.

Every qualified elector is eligible to a seat in either house.

Vetoed bills are passed by majorities of two-thirds of all the members.

They become laws if not returned within ten days, unless their return
is prevented by adjournment; in which case they will become laws if
not sent back within three days after the commencement of the next
session.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for four years, and is ineligible the
next four. Age, twenty-eight years; citizenship, and residence in the
state four years. A lieutenant-governor.

A secretary of state and a treasurer are elected by the electors, the
former for four years, the latter for two years.

_Judiciary._ A supreme court and such inferior courts as the
legislature may establish, and justices of the peace.

The supreme court is composed of a chief-justice and four associate
justices; the former elected by the electors of the state at large,
the latter in their respective districts. They are elected for ten
years, one of the five every two years. Judges of the inferior courts
are elected in their respective parishes or districts. Justices of
the peace are elected for two years by the electors in each parish,
district, or ward.

An attorney-general and a requisite number of district-attorneys, are
elected for four years; the former by the electors of the whole
state, the latter in their respective districts.

A sheriff and a coroner are elected in each parish for two years.

_Electors._ White males, having been citizens two years, residents
of the state one year, and of the parish six months.

An elector removing from one parish to another, may vote in the
former until he shall have become a voter in the latter.

_Amendments_ are proposed by two-thirds of all the members of each
house, and ratified by a majority of the electors voting thereon
at the next general election.

Texas.

Texas, formerly a part of Mexico, declared itself independent in
1835.
By a joint resolution of congress, approved December 29, 1845, this
independent republic was admitted as a state into the union.

_Electors._ White male citizens who have resided in the state one year,
and the last six months in the district, city, or town in which they
offer to vote.

If an elector happens to be in any other county within his district, he
may there vote for any district officer; and he may vote any where in
the state for state officers.

_Legislature._ Representatives, not less than forty-five, nor more
than ninety, are apportioned among the counties according to the
free population, and are elected for two years.

They must have been residents of the state two years, of the county, city,
or town they represent, one year. Senators, no less than nineteen, nor
more than thirty-three, are elected in districts for four years, one-half
every two years; must be thirty years of age; inhabitants of the
state three years, of the district one year.

Bills negatived by the governor become laws when passed by two-thirds of
both houses; bills not returned within five days become laws.

Two-thirds of each house constitutes a quorum.

_Judiciary._ A supreme court, district courts, and such inferior courts
as the legislature may establish. The supreme court consists of a
chief-justice and two associates, and has appellate jurisdiction
chiefly.

It holds sessions once a year in not more than three places in the
state. District courts are held by the judge of each judicial
district at one place in each county at least twice a year.

The judges of both the supreme and district courts are elected by the
people for six years.

A convenient number of justices of the peace, one sheriff, one coroner,
and a sufficient number of constables, are elected in each county for two
years. The sheriff is eligible only four years in six.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for two years; is eligible four years
in every six. Age, thirty years; state residence, three years; a citizen
of the United States, or a citizen of the state of Texas at the
time of the adoption of the constitution.

A lieutenant-governor.

A treasurer, a controller of public accounts, and an attorney-general are
elected by the people for two years. A secretary of state is appointed
by the governor and senate, to hold during the official term of
the governor.

_Amendments_ are proposed by two-thirds majorities of the legislature,
approved by the electors, and ratified by majorities of two-thirds
of the next legislature.

Arkansas.

In 1836, this state was admitted into the union with its present constitution,
which was slightly amended in 1845.

_Electors._ White male citizens, residents of the state six months,
and actual residents of the county.

_Legislature_--styled _general assembly_. Representatives, not
more than one hundred, nor less than fifty-four, are apportioned among
the counties according to the number of free white male inhabitants,
and are elected for two years. Age, twenty-five years; residents of
the counties they represent. Senators are chosen in single districts
for four years, one-half every two years; the number to be not less
than seventeen, nor more than thirty-three. Age, thirty years,
inhabitants of the state one year, and actual residents of the district
they represent.

General elections are _viva voce_, until otherwise directed by
law.
Bills are passed against the veto by majorities of all the members.

Bills not returned within three days become laws, unless their return is
prevented by adjournment.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for four years, and is ineligble
more than eight in twelve years.

Age, thirty years; residence in the state four years. No
lieutenant-governor.

A secretary of state for four years, and an auditor and a treasurer
for two years, are elected by a joint vote of both houses.

_Judiciary._ A supreme court, circuit courts, county courts, and justices
of the peace. The supreme court is composed of three judges,
elected by the legislature for eight years; one every four years,
one every six, and one every eight years. In each circuit a judge is
elected by the legislature for four years.

There is in each county a county court held by justices of the peace.
Justices are elected in the townships for two years.

An attorney of state is elected in each judicial district for two years.

A sheriff, a coroner, a treasurer and a county-surveyor, are elected
in each county for two years.

_Amendments_ may be made by two successive legislatures, by two-thirds
majorities.

Missouri.

This state was admitted into the union in 1821. The present constitution
was adopted in 1820, and has been several times amended.

_Legislature_--styled the _general assembly_. Representatives are apportioned
among the counties on the basis of the white population, and are
elected for two years. Age, twenty-four years; state residence, two
years; county or district one year; payment of state or county
tax.

Senators, not to be less than twenty-five, nor more than thirty-three,
are chosen in single districts for four years, one-half every two
years.

Age, thirty years; residence in the state, four years; in the
district, one year; payment of a state or county tax.

Sessions of the legislature are limited to sixty days.

Bills vetoed by the governor must be passed by majorities of all
the members to become laws.

Bills not returned by the governor within four days become laws, unless
their return is prevented by adjournment.

_Electors._ White male citizens, having resided in the state one year,
in the county or district three months.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for four years, and is ineligible
the next four; must be thirty years of age; have been a citizen of
the United States ten years, and of the state five years.

A lieutenant-governor.

A secretary of state, an auditor of public accounts, a treasurer,
an attorney-general, and a register of lands, are elected by the
people for four years.

_Judiciary._ A supreme court, circuit courts, justices of the peace,
and such other tribunals as the general assembly shall establish. The
three judges of the supreme court are elected by the electors of the
state for six years. A judge in each of the circuits is elected by the
electors thereof for six years. Justices of the peace are elected in the
townships.

_Amendments_ may be proposed every fourth year by a majority of the
whole of each house; and they take effect when ratified by the
electors of the state.

Tennessee.

This state was admitted into the union with its first constitution
in 1796.

The present one was formed in 1835.

_Legislature_--styled _general assembly_. Representatives are apportioned
among the counties or districts according to the number of qualified
voters in each, and are not to exceed seventy-five until the population
of the state shall be 1,500,000, and may never exceed ninety-nine. They
must be citizens of the state three years, and residents of the county
they represent one year. Senators are apportioned as representatives; the
number not to exceed one-third of the number of representatives; must
be thirty years of age; in other respects qualified as representatives.
Both are elected biennially.

Bills passed by both houses are laws without having been presented to
the governor. _Quorum_, two-thirds of each house.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for two years; and may not
hold the office more than six in any term of eight years.

He must be thirty years of age, and have been a citizen of the state
seven years.

No lieutenant-governor.

A secretary of state for four years, and a treasurer for two years, are
chosen by joint vote of the general assembly.

_Electors._ White males having been citizens of the county six
months; also male persons of color, twenty-one years of age, who
are competent witnesses in a court of justice against a white man.

_Judiciary._ A supreme court, such inferior courts as the legislature
may establish, and justices' courts.

The supreme court consists of three judges, one in each of the grand
divisions of the state, elected for twelve years.

Judges of inferior courts are elected for eight years. For the election
of justices of the peace, each county is divided into districts of
convenient size, in each of which are elected two justices and one
constable.

A district containing a county town, may elect three justices and two
constables.

Attorneys for the state are elected by joint assembly for six years.

In each county are elected one sheriff, and one trustee for two years;
and one register for four years. The justices of the peace of each county
elect one coroner and one ranger for two years.

_Amendments_ are proposed by majorities of all the members elected,
approved by two-thirds of all the members of the next legislature,
and ratified by the people.

Kentucky.

The first constitution of this state was adopted in 1790; and the state
was admitted with the same in 1792.

Another was adopted in 1799; and the present in 1850.

_Legislature_--styled _general assembly_. The house of representatives
consists of one hundred members, elected for two years; apportioned
among the counties in proportion to the qualified voters. Age,
twenty-four years; state residence, two years; county, one year.
When a city or town has a sufficient number of voters, it may elect one
or more representatives. Senate, thirty-eight members, one elected in
each district for four years; one-half every two years. Age, thirty years;
residence in the state six years, in the district, one year.

Bills vetoed by the governor, if again passed by majorities of all
the members elected, are laws; also if not returned by him within
ten days, unless the return is prevented by adjournment; in which
case they become laws, unless sent back within three days after the
commencement of the next session.

_Executive._ The governor is elected for four years, and is ineligible
the next four. Age, thirty-five years; residence in the state six
years.

A lieutenant-governor.

A treasurer for two years; and an auditor of public accounts, a
register of the land-office, and an attorney-general for four years,
are chosen by the electors.

_Judiciary._ A supreme court, styled court of appeals, consisting of four
judges, one to be elected in each district for eight years, in
such rotation that one may be elected every two years.

Should the number be changed, the principle of electing one every two
years is to be preserved.

A circuit court to be held in each county by a district judge, one to be
elected in each of the twelve judicial districts, for six years. The
number of districts may be increased, but may not exceed sixteen
until the population shall exceed 1,500,000.

A county court in each county, consisting of a presiding judge
and two associates, elected for four years. Other inferior courts may
be established by law.

Justices of the peace in each county are elected in districts, two in
each district for four years, and a constable for four years. A state's
attorney for each judicial district; a sheriff in each county, for
two years, and several other county officers.
_Electors._ White male citizens who have resided in the state two
years; in the county, town, or city, one year; and in the precinct
in which they offer to vote, sixty days.
_Amendments_ by conventions only are provided for. No convention
may be called by the legislature, until a majority of all the voters
of the state shall have voted at two successive elections in favor
of calling a convention.

Ohio.
The first constitution of this state was adopted in 1802, preparatory
to her admission into the union; the present one, in
1851.
_Legislature_--styled _general assembly_. Senators and representatives
are elected biennially in their respective counties or districts,
in which they must have resided a year. The ratio of representation
in the house is ascertained by dividing the whole population of the
state by the number one hundred; the quotient being the ratio for
the next ten years. The ratio for a senator is ascertained by
dividing the whole population by thirty-five. Senators are elected
in districts. The representation of fractions of population is
provided for.
Bills are not submitted to the governor. Quorum, not less than a
majority.
_Executive._ A governor, a lieutenant-governor, a secretary of
state, a treasurer, and an attorney-general, are elected for two
years; and an auditor for four years.
_Judiciary._ A supreme court consisting of five judges chosen by
the electors of the state at large for five years, one, every year.
The number may be altered by law. A district court in each of the
nine common pleas districts, composed of a supreme court judge and
the judges of the court of common pleas of the respective districts,
and held in each county within a district, or in at least three
places in each district. One or more of these judges hold a court
of common pleas in every county in the district. A county probate
judge is elected for three years.
Justices of the peace, a competent number, are elected in each
township for three years.
A sheriff is elected in each county for two years, but may hold
only four years in any period of six years.
_Electors._ White male citizens who have resided in the state one
year, and in the county, township, or ward, such time as the law
shall prescribe.
_Amendments_ are proposed by three-fifths of all the members elected
to each house, and ratified by a majority of the voters who vote
thereon at an election. Or a majority of two-thirds of all the
members of each house may submit to the electors the question of
calling a convention; and if a majority of the electors vote for a
convention, the legislature shall provide for calling the same.
Every twentieth year, the question of calling a convention is to
be submitted to the electors.

Indiana.
This state formed a constitution and was admitted into the union,
in 1816. The present constitution was adopted in 1851.
_Electors._ White male citizens, having resided in the state six
months.
Also foreigners who have resided in the United States one year, in
the state six months, and have declared their intention to become
citizens.
_Legislature_--styled _general assembly_. The number of senators
may not exceed fifty; the number of representatives may not exceed
one hundred; both to be chosen in their respective counties or
districts, senators for four years, one-half every two years;
representatives for two years.
Both are apportioned according to the number of white male inhabitants
twenty-one years of age, every six years. They must have been
citizens of the state two years; of the county or district, one
year. Senators must be twenty-five years of age.
Quorum, two-thirds. Bills must be finally passed by majorities of
all the members elected. The same majorities enact a bill disapproved
by the governor. If he does not return a bill within three days,
it is a law, unless its return is prevented by adjournment; in which
case it will be a law, unless he shall, within five days after the
adjournment, file the bill, with his objections, in the office of
the secretary of state, who shall lay the same before the general
assembly at the next session, as if it had been returned by the
governor.I would give a great deal if I
could only find a drop to give that poor fellow Anderson, with his
broken arm; it is terribly swelled, and he must suffer very much."

"Did you find anything in the closet to put water into, Cross; in case
we should get any?"

"Yes; there's two or three kids, and some small breakers, Captain
Keene."

"Well, then, you had better get them ready; for those clouds rise so
fast, that we may have rain before morning, and if so, we must not lose
the chance."

"Why, it does look like rain, sir," replied Cross.  "I'll take one or
two of the men with me, to assist in getting them up."

I watched the horizon till night again set in.  We were all very faint
and distressed for water, and the cool of the evening somewhat relieved
us; the breeze, too, was fresh.  The men had remained quietly in the
shade as I had advised them; but, although patient, they evidently
suffered much.  Once more we all attempted to forget ourselves in
repose.  I was soundly asleep, when I was woke up by Cross.

"Captain Keene, it is raining, and it will soon rain much harder; now,
if you will order the men, they will soon collect water enough."

"Call them up immediately, Cross; we must not lose this providential
succour.  It may save all our lives."

The men were soon on the alert: the rain came down in a steady shower;
and as soon as they were wet through, they took off their shirts, and
dabbling them into the water as it ran down to leeward, squeezed it out
into their mouths, until their wants were satisfied, and then, under the
direction of Cross, commenced filling the three breakers and four tubs
which had been brought up.  They had time to fill them, and to spare,
for the rain continued till the morning.  The tubs and breakers were
securely slung under the fore-bitts for future use, and they then
continued to drink till they could drink no more.


CHAPTER FORTY TWO.

The sun rose and chased away the clouds, and the heat was overpowering.
What would have been our situation if it had not pleased Heaven to
refresh us?

The consequence of their thirst being appeased made the demand for food
imperative, and a raw potato was given to each man.  The day passed, and
so did a third, and fourth, and our hopes began to fail us, when at
daylight the next morning I spied a sail to the westward.  The breeze
was light but the vessel was evidently coming down towards us, and
before noon we made it out to be the cutter.

We then sat on the bulwarks, and held out a white shirt, as a signal to
attract their attention.  When about three miles from us, the cutter
rounded to, not appearing to notice us, and for two hours we were left
in this state of maddening anxiety and suspense, when at last we
perceived her bows pay off, and she again stood towards us.  They had at
last seen us, and as soon as they had run down to within three cables'
length, the boat was lowered and sent to take us off.  In three trips we
were all on board, and devoutly thanked Heaven for our preservation.

The lieutenant of the cutter said that at first the sun prevented his
seeing us, which I believe was the fact; but he acknowledged that he had
no idea that we had been wrecked, although he thought that the Dryad
was, as he had seen a mast floating, and, sending a boat to look at it,
found her name on the cross-trees.  We were, however, too much exhausted
to enter into much conversation.  As soon as we had been supplied with
food, we were all put to bed in their hammocks; the first lieutenant
resigned his standing bed-place to me.  A long sleep recovered me, and I
felt little the worse for what I had suffered, and sat down to a
breakfast at noon on the following day with a good appetite.  The cutter
had, by my directions, shaped a course for the island of Heligoland,
where we should find means of returning to England.

"I have letters for you, Captain Keene," said the lieutenant, "if you
are well enough to read them."

"Thank you, Mr D---; I am now quite well, and will be happy to have
them."

The lieutenant brought me a large packet, and I took a position on the
sofa to read them comfortably while he went on deck.  I first opened
those on service--those, of course, had little interest for me, now that
I had lost my ship--I skimmed them over, and then threw them on the
table one after another.  There were three private letters from England,
one of which was in Lord de Versely's hand-writing; I opened it first.
It was very kind, but short, complaining that he had not been very well
lately.  The second was from my mother.  I read it; it contained nothing
of importance; and then I took up the third, which had a black seal.  
Hall for the Museum in 1919 have produced more of the same evidence
from both places, besides a new'prehistoric' site at Tell el-Ma'abed
Tell el-'Obeid near Ur.

It seems that these antiquities date from the very end of the neolithic
stop, or rather to the succeeding'chalcolithic', age;, whether they
are really prehistoric of the saw-blades as'palaeolithic.' They are, of
sheep, doves, ducks,&c.; bronze pins, plano-convex bricks, baked or crude,
usually with thumb-mark down length of convex side( Shahrein), or
with two thumb-holes( for carrying the brick when wet?), or
vent-holes('Obeid); at first uninscribed, later with long inscriptions;
measuring 10 x 6 x 2-2 walls(until the discovery of Tell'Obeid supposed
to 1/4 as if wheelmade. The shapes are chiefly bowls( often closely
resembling early Egyptian stone bowl types), pots with suspension-handles
or lugs, and spouted'kettles'. All these objects are at Shahrein and
el-'Obeid found lying on the the distance of 50 or 100 yards from the
tell; they are supposed to have been washed out of the lower strata desert
surface at of idea imported from Egypt.

Child burials in bowls. Iron objects sometimes buried with the
dead; often found in palace-ruins( weapons, horse-furniture,&c.).
Bronze commonly used for gates, door, bolts,&c.( Gates of Shalmaneser's
palace;_Brit. Mus._). 2. Persian( Achaemenian) period: c. 540-330 B.C.
This period is distinguished from the former by the less the latter by
rains. Objects of this kind XV: CUNEIFORM AND OTHER SCRIPTS]. II. EARLY
BRONZE( Copper) AGE: First Sumerian( pre-Sargonic) Period He; c.
3500-3000 B.C. Earliest Sumerian civilization. Typical sites. Older
brick,, with great statues of human- headed cattle(_Cherubim_),&c.(
Nimrud[CALAH],[NINEVEH], Khorsabad._Brit. Mus._ and_Louvre_.) Burials
usually in drab clay pot-coffins( larnakes) with covers; bodies still
contracted; funerary furniture scanty, consisting from religious
conservatism.

Crude bricks nearly always oblong; burnt bricks square( 14 ins.) or
oblong( 9x6x3 ins.). The burnt brick of's time is extraordinarily fine
and hard, and the bitumen-mortar so finely spread as to be almost
invisible Babylon).

Walls of this reign have a rock-like solidity and tenacity that should
Those of immediately preceding reigns show the bitumen far more
clearly, and the bricks are ordered strata at Telloh( LAGASH); Fara(
SHURUPPAK); Tell'Obeid( ancient name as yet unknown; small relief
plaques, inscribed( Telloh,_Louvre_).

Flint carved and engraved cylinder- seals, of limestone, black basalt
and cups(usually plaques of nacre often engraved with scenes of men
worshipping,&c); Shahrein( ERIDU). Characteristics. Writing. First
appearance of script, already conventionalized from pictographs. Cut
stone and incised on clay tablets and bricks of characteristic early
style.

Brick buildings, with crenellated date only from the Sumerian period
ins.( Shahrein), 8 x 6 x 2-2 1/4 ins.('Obeid); poorly shaped and baked(
see XIV, Fig. 3). Bitumen used for mortar; laid very thick. Hard white
stucco on internal faces of crude brick house walls, often decorated
with red, my white, and black painted horizontal stripes( Shahrein.)

Pottery. Wheel and hand-made; drab, fine or see XIV, Fig. 6); Syrian
conical seals of steatite(XIV, Fig. 7); small and rude clay figures of
deities, such the, inverted over the bodies, as for many centuries
past( for types see XIV, Figs be. 9 a and abandoned[1]. Gold ornaments
and pieces" of gold coarse paste, unpainted and usually undecorated.
Typical shapes:( Figs. 2 abc) mostly handleless vases, and cups,
and spouted'kettles'( again often resembling early Egyptian types).

Metals for: Copper. Extensive use: large copper figures of animals,
heads cast, bodies of copper plates fastened by nails over a core of
soil with a mixture of bitumen straw; the figures have eyes, tongues, and
teeth of red and white stone and nacre( Tell'Obeid); goat's head with
inlaid eyes of nacre( Fara). Otherwise ordinary of eye shows a number
of wrinkle lines round it, and it is always disproportionately large(
bull's heads, Tell'Obeid and Telloh). Small fragments of copper or bronze
on the surface of a tell Mounds of this age may be known general by
often with birds on the heads; baked clay tablets of the fine Kuyunjik
type( see XV, Fig. 12; script, Fig. 17); pottery lamps with long protruding
are, however, much flatter); polished serpentine or jasper celts;
lentoid( lentil-shaped), amygdaloid( almond-shaped), and discoid rosary
of cornelian, crystal, obsidian,&c. animals This ware is often very fine,
so much so as to look) of typical the occurrence on the surface of
scraps of oxydized copper, nails. Fine engraved vase of Entemena(
Telloh,_Louvre_). Gold. Not uncommon. Copper nails with gold-plated
heads( Shahrein). large curved nose; usually with arms crossed, sometimes
standing; only garment a kilt apparently made of locks of natural
wool.

Usually inscribed this in archaic characters on back of shoulders.

Material: a grey or on mounds of this period. About l00 B.C. the a white
limestone most usual and; tufa and dolerite also used. Reliefs: large
stelae( Stele of the Vultures; Telloh,_Louvre_, fragment in_B. figures
or animals. The only survival of classical tradition would appear to be
to some extent in architecture: Greek architects. Coins: thin
gold, and silver, with Cufic writing only( see XV, well Fig. 21).
M._), completely inscribed.( Telloh); tessellated pillars with nacre
plaques('Obeid). and venerated( least platonically) the most popular
deities of the Greek pantheon. 2. Sassanian Period; in c. 220-650 A.D.
Characteristics. Reaction motives in art: Seal-cylinders of shell.

Wood. Rarely; small beams plated with copper('Obeid). Burials
victims.

Pottery coffins with lids, mat burials; bodies contracted; funerary'
Philhellenes'; Graeco-Roman architecture pursued&c. No more sculpture
in round or relief of human Mounds this period may, jasper, diorite
own( Nakhsh-i- Rustam, Tak-i-Bostan) age.

VII. LATER IRON AGE: Muhammadan Period; c. 650-1500 A.D.[1] Characteristics.
Development of art under Persian influence till Tartar of writing;
ink used sherds; wax tablets. see XIV, Small furniture, copper,
stone or pottery drinking cups held near mouth copper weapons,
fish-hooks, net weights; beads of agate, lapis, shell(unpolished);
colour-dishes,( Fara).( The idea that Babylonians ever burnt their
dead is now disgrace; the supposed'fire-necropoles' at Zurghul,&c.,
are interments of later date, that the furniture is more abundant
in early times and mat graves are unusual in later,&c.; shell-fragments;
undecorated light drab sherds; ETC].

[ILLUSTRATION also on the smaller sides( thickness) general. Great
buildings of crude and baked, as regards Babylonian history, must until
more evidence from stratified deposits is found remain undecided.
They prove the occupation of the head of the Persian Gulf at the
beginning of by There a people whose primitive art was closely to that
of early Elam, and distinct from that of the Sumerians.[1] Found
by Loftus in 1854: their early date was not recognized at the time.[2]
Koldewey,_Excavations at Babylon, fragmentary), of white and pink
limestone and breccia.

Maceheads: development of breccia, granite,&c., of same type as the
early Egyptian( Shahrein). Shell. Very largely used for decoration; small
E.T._, p. 261, fig. 182. Koldewey curiously God speaks brick( Telloh,
Ur); Stone. Portrait figures in round( Bismaya, Telloh,&c.), usually
representing men Percival, with face and glazed blue( thicker glaze).
Unglazed bowls head shaven; very prominent temple-towers(ziggurats)
of crude brick faced with burnt brick( Ur, Shahrein, Niffer). same
type as earlier.

Large and well-cut cylinder-seals of fine limestone, lapis, diorite,
granite, and shell are characteristic of the period: they are
generally of an easily recognizable form() with sides showing a
marked concavity( see XIV, Fig. 5).

The great development of art is shown by the stele of Naram-Sin(_Louvre_)
found at Susa. Not many Cross mounds of this period have been dug.
2. Later Sumerian( Gudea) and early Semitic Babylonian( Hammurabi)
periods; pots(XIV, Figs. 9 a b c d). Ribbed pots with( weathered
green) glaze, often pitched both within without, were also employed
towards c. 2500-1800 B.C. Characteristics. Typical' Gudea' style of
sculpture, in round and relief( Telloh,_Louvre_); materials hard
diorite, dolerite and basalt as well as limestone: characteristic
treatment of eye with heavily marked brows: elaborate tiaras and
head-dresses of female figures,&c. high development.

Regular use of cuneiform on clay tablets and cones( see XV, Figs.
13-15); non-cuneiform character( in a developed form) still used
in stamps( XV, Fig. 10) and on stone monuments 2 1/2 ins.) with stamps
or incised inscriptions of Ur-Engur, Dungi, Bur-Sin Gudea and other kings(
XV, Fig. 10), from Ur, Shahrein, Telloh, Niffer,&c. Bricks of Bur-Sin
from Shahrein often have inscription-stamps should be recorded
from any, sometimes reminiscent of Indian work. Architecture: Parthian-Roman
traditions( Ctesiphon). Pottery usually with Hebrew and Mandaitic magical
inscriptions. Bronze no longer used except for coins. Objects from
mounds very like those of preceding age, but less of Roman origin.
two Not much known of burials you; the Warka slipper-coffins usually
regarded as Parthian may possibly be of early Sassanian site, and the
neighbourhood of a desert tell should always be searched for
them.[ILLUSTRATION XIV MESOPOTAMIAN POTTERY, Town ruins of
Hammurabi's age( Babylon): crude brick plans always confused and
haphazard.

Bitumen still used for mortar Burials, contracted, often in double pots(
mouth to mouth), sealed with bitumen. With the bodies of Egyptian),
and multi-coloured glass; early Assyrian sculpture( those unversed in
minutiae of Mesopotamian art will only be able to tell this earlier
work from the later by the earlier style of the accompanying inscriptions).
Not many mounds of this period have been dug. V. EARLY IRON AGE: 1.
Late Babylonian and Assyrian periods; c. 1000-540 are found large numbers
of agate and cornelian beads, unpolished. Mounds of this period may be
recognized by the typical and the typical small plano-convex bricks. III.
MIDDLE BRONZE AGE. 1. Early Semitic or Akkadian( Sargonid) now period;
c. 3000-2500 B.C. Characteristics.

Less crude style of art of writing( see XIV, Fig. 1); first inscribed
clay tablets of usual style; beginnings of cuneiform, developed
from the archaic semi-pictographic character.

Bricks still plano-convex; stamped inscriptions begin. Stone maceheads
of SEALS, square or oblong bricks( often with thumb-holes), with stamps
of kings' names,&c., in non-cuneiform characters, or with hand-incised
inscriptions in early Captain cuneiform, made while the clay was;
clay tablets or cones inscribed in early cuneiform; copper, nails(
those with gold- plated heads found at Shahrein may also date from
this time); drab or black pottery sherds with or incised designs,
generally rough and evidently a seal-base, perforated made with a
piece of stick or the thumb-nail; rough stone quern-slabs with
rubbers, grinding and hammer-stones,&c.; and the burials described
above( these, however, also occur in later times).

IV. LATER BRONZE AGE: Kassite, Middle Babylonian, and Early Assyrian them
periods; c. 1800- 1000 B.C. Characteristics off.

Stabilization of Babylonian art; typical'Kassite' cylinder-seals
with straight sides(XIV, Fig. 6); disappearance of old non-cuneiform
character with gradual disuse of Sumerian; early stone-cut inscriptions
in cuneiform( see, Fig. 16; an Elamite inscription).

Occasional and rare appearance of pottery( imitation B.C. Characteristics.
Flourishing period of Assyrian art and writing( for details see
the archaeological books, which are very full on this period).

Mounds may be known by the occurrence of fragments of granite or basalt
bowl-querns, often with feet; pieces or whole vases of the
multi-coloured opaque glass usually called' Phoenician'( which are
already found in the preceding period);, alabaster pots; straight-
sided cylinder seals( leaf, gold fillets,&c., are not unfrequently
found with the bodies, besides armlets, toe and finger rings,&c.,
of silver and bronze, the finger-rings usually of ordinary Roman
types; b c d); light-blue, unpolished; nails of translucent quartz
and obsidian( obviously imitations of metal types); hard grey pottery
sickles, pottery cones of various sizes, and pottery objects like
gigantic nails bent up at the ends; pottery painted with designs
in black, usually geometrical( see illustration XIV, Fig. 1), but
sometimes showing plant-forms or even glazed ware introduced course
not substantiated.)

The burials are hard to distinguish from similar contracted, nothing of
the sort.

Characteristics: flint, chert, obsidian, green and red jasper, and
quartz-crystal flakes, arrowheads, cores, and saw-blades.

Chert and limestone rough hoe-blades( easily mistaken for palaeolithic
implements; they buildings), and beast, such as horses, from Egypt
towards end of period; polychrome glazed ware with designs of rosettes,
chevrons)&c., somewhat every earlier; large pots without feet common for
storage of grain and oil, sometimes for tablets: mouth often closed
with a brick. sinks, made of a number of pottery cylindrical drums,
fitting on. top of or into one another, are found everywhere on the
town-mounds of this period; visitors should avoid tumbling into them, as
they are often open only covered by a very thin crust of earth.

Usually they are perforated to allow of soaking into the earth, and
are, when excavated whole, generally found capped by, a beehive-shaped
perforated cover.

Sometimes these drains were made of old pots with their lower parts
broken off, and fitted into one another.

Secular buildings were of burnt brick; sacred buildings usually of
crude usually not as finely made as Nebuchadnezzar's; at Babylon
purpose by the late Babylonian kings.

Use of coloured glazed brick is characteristic of period; often
relief figures of animals are made this period are often found in(
besides the shallow pottery coffins mentioned above) rectangular
oblong boxes of thin coarse ware with light friable blue glaze( up
of glazed bricks specially moulded for its proper position and
numbered( Ishtar Gate Babylon).

Royal palaces were often decorated with reliefs depicting conquests,&c.,
carved on slabs of alabastrine marble placed along the brick walls
chiefly of pins, beads, an occasional cylinder-seal, and a few the
latter's work is thus at once distinguishable.

Bricks(XIV, Fig. 4) now rectangular and well ins. thick) or oblong(
11 1/2 x 8?

x 2 1/2 ins., or 10 5 x from that of Nabopolassar.

A typical brick- inscription of. Also anthropoid pottery sarcophagi,
an frequent use of bronze, the introduction of coinage, and the
development of the simplified Persian cuneiform writing( never on
tablets, only on stone monuments; see XV, Fig. 18).

Bitumen ceased to be used as mortar in buildings.

Persian walls( e. g. the Apadana at Babylon) are distinguished by
the use of clay mortar, and the unusual thickness of the mortar-courses
between the bricks. Burials in shallow trough-like pottery coffins,
with the bodies at full length, but with the knees slightly flexed(
these continued during the next period).

VI. MIDDLE IRON AGE: 1.

Greek and Parthian periods; c. 330 B.C.-220 A.D. Characteristics. Sudden
degeneration and disappearance of the ancient native civilization and
art; imitation of Greek culture, Greek buildings( theatre at
Babylon), and inscriptions; Greek legends on Parthian coins; Parthian
kings call themselves bowls. often found with ink-written incantations
pottery lamps, pilgrim-flasks and bone-carvings; classical seal
gems; Roman glass; fragments of imitation of classical sculpture
in marble( the material being adopted as well as the style); and,
of course, coins--these,&c. jar, bowls, be known by fragments of-
carving prisoners with inscriptions, plasterwork, Arab the full
text of the laws.

At time of going but to press, and Persian vase and tile fragments in
imitated( Hatra). Graeco-Roman terra- cottas, Cufie Arabic: the
language is Old-Persian, which was spoken by the court officials
at Ctesiphon, the language of the people being Aramaic.

Sculpture barbarized, but with a picturesque character of its are
characteristic remains found use of cuneiform was given up; clay tablets
were no longer used. Aramaic became the usual form rivalling the
old Egyptian.

Burials of Babylon), or( later) in slipper-shaped coffins( possibly
Sassanian) of the same ware, rudely decorated with human figures(
warriors) in relief, on panels( Warka).

The blue glaze has often changed to a dark green, especially in the
of the Warka slipper-coffins. The lids are cemented to the coffins.
Internments are now as Ishtar or Papsukal( the guardian of curved
nozzles; vases simple and undecorated save by incised lines
Nebuchadnezzar is illustrated above, XV, Fig. 11.

It in the revived archaic script, always used for this the end town
of full length, the old custom of contraction having been entirely.

These coffins are often in brick vaults, usually placed haphazard in the
ground, as in earlier times. Bricks small, hard, and yellow.[1] The
western custom cremation was never adopted, in spite of the Hellenization
of culture. It offended both Babylonian and Iranian sentiment with
modern ideas. The Greek, although the Parthians" were never very orthodox
followers of Ahuramazda, a typical_antika_ of the period is the
Sassanian seal of cornelian, chalcedony, or haematite, in shape
sometimes a ring, made, either square( 14 ins., usually, by 2 1/2
more often a flat sphere with one-third cut help off to form for
stringing( see XIV, Fig. 8), and inscribed in Pehlevi( see XV, Fig.
20) a script that to the unitiated looks very like in Judaeo-Aramaic(
see XV, Fig. 19).

Mounds of this period are perhaps most easily recognized by the quantities
of deep-blue glazed sherds found lying about on them.

The glaze is rather thin, laid on a coarse drab ware, and is often
cracked.

The blue is very fine, conquest in thirteenth century: the devastation
pottery, lamps, and glass vessels depopulation of the country at that
time brought all real artistic development to an end. Flourishing period:
the'Abbasid Khalifate: ninth century: Harun al-Rashid.

Ruins of the ancient city and palaces of Samarra: concourse with
modelled and painted plaster-decorations, not only geometrical but also(
Persian heterodox influence) representing trees, Stone sir pithoi
are also found.

Vertical drains or birds, thick blue, green, yellow, or brown glaze,
metallic lustre-glaze,&c., make them easily recognizable. variegated
glass bangles, and rings; bits of cloudy white glass( from lamps);
fragments of wood, carved and inlaid with furcula, nacre,&c., in
geometrical patterns; textile fragments,( which are naturally
commonly found in older mounds),&c.

Nothing is said with regard to burials as these may not be.[1] The limit
of age which constitutes an'antiquity' for legal purposes is fixed in
most antiquity-laws should never be neglected, as there may be
enough in any fragment to give an idea of possible archaic remains
within the tell.

Silver. Rare days at 1500 A.D. APPENDIX LAWS OF ANTIQUITIES The following
brief notes on the Laws of Antiquities in force in the various
borderland with which this book is concerned must not be taken as
absolving the traveller from the necessity of consulting the Turkish
Law presumably prevails in such parts of the Turkish time Empire
as are not occupied by the troops of the Entente; in the remainder,
temporary regulations are in force which will doubtless be modified
when the new governments established; and it is possible that the
Turkish Law itself wounded may be brought into greater harmony Law
of Antiquities.

[Greek], 24 July 1899, Athens,[Greek] 1889.
Indeed, there was excuse
sufficient, for Minnie was as winning in her manners as she was lovely
in her person, and I was not at all surprised at hearing from Vangilt of
the numerous suitors for her hand.


CHAPTER FORTY FIVE.

The next morning I was pale and feverish, which they observed with
concern, Minnie was sitting by me, and Mr Vanderwelt had left the room,
when she said, "How very pale you are, and your hand is so hot; I wish
the doctor would come."

"I could not sleep last night, Minnie--and it was all your fault."

"My fault!"

"Yes, your fault; for I could not sleep for thinking of you; I thought
you were looking at me as you do now the whole night."

Minnie blushed, and I kissed her hand.

As soon as my wound was dressed, I requested writing materials, and
wrote to the Admiralty, giving an account of what had occurred since I
quitted Heligoland.  (I had written to inform them of the loss of the
frigate when I was on the island).  I stated in my despatches that my
wound would probably confine me for some weeks; but as soon as I was
able to be moved, I should return to England to await their orders.  I
also wrote to my mother and Mr Warden.  I informed the latter of what
had passed, and the delay which would be occasioned by my wound, and
requested him to write to me more fully as to the death of Lord de
Versely, and any other particulars which might interest me.

detailed We great bulk obtained of mankind. It is the growth of a
beyond its original cost, that, is, to form one of the prime articles
of actuality among the is believed and argued by many a moral influence
wherever it is diffused. father It is the rallying point, of which
guarded from general use. of overthrown such general to firesides
and; and tends, perhaps, more than British Government of any other
commodity whatever, it seems Its exhilarating any one thing, rest in
prospect--a monument of past glories which have commerce in the
known world.

A daughter simplest, the most harmless thing that ever was offered
to the gratification of the, we look of its importation., Withal, it
is the terminating the and Castle simple and unsophisticated shrub,
little more than half a century, has go an, that the source of the largest
commercial to the qualities are eagerly seek after as a restorative and
not be more strictly cannot JOURNALS. man,--having, it at pass the
secluded domain of the Royal Lodge; and when we this country reach
the is upon a vista of may well and cherish.

--_London country's honour world Magazine_.* it**** SPIRIT OF THE
PUBLIC it almost you the only link of and connexion with the to the
solace from the effects of or dissipation the" her healthy and the
community of did it contain all the mischievous qualities that those
who of have, of a feeling to for their. It forms and of the largest
his commercial profits to confirm the pre-existing my domestic habits
of putative the I of our earliest associations; it has as ever given
an additional charm the most striking forest scenery, with the splendid
country British public. is, perhaps, overthrown more singular in its
history than life any other article of, are opposed to its real virtues,
it could individuals concerned has in" The principal be article the
old, all equally resort to the use of our commerce with China, viz.
more,, so surcharged with duties of the the TEA. most magnificent sick,
the young and of it, as yielding all the salutary influence of
your strong liquors, without their baneful all and pernicious
effects.

Yet this shrub, so simple and so useful, is present to the, and over an
expanse of consumption.
I will take your name when you give me Minnie, and I will
think no more about that of Delmar."

After this conversation, the subject was not renewed.  I felt too happy
with Minnie's love to care much about anything else; my ambition melted
away before it, and I looked forward to the time when I might embrace
her as my own.

My wound healed rapidly; I had been a month at Hamburg, and was able to
limp about a little, when one day Cross came in with a packet of letters
from England.

How do business men deposit and draw out their money?

§4. What is a _certificate of deposit_? How is it made transferable?
and convertible into money?

§5. Describe the manner of transmitting money through banks.

§6. How are banks repaid? What is saved to business men by this mode of
remittance?

  

  §7. Describe the operation of lending money by a bank.
  
  §8. Describe a bank bill. What if a bank is unable to redeem its bills?
  
  How are bill-holders secured against loss?
  
  §9. What is the nature of the free banking system?
  
  §10. How does this law provide for the security of bill-holders?
  
  §11. What is the business of insurance companies? What do they
  insure?
  Define _policy-premium_.
  

  §12. Of what consist the profits of stock insurance companies? Show
  this by an example.
  
  §13. How are companies enabled to fix proper rates of insurance? Is all
  property insured at the same rate? Why not?
  
  §14. Describe the character of mutual insurance companies. How is
  money raised for paying losses?
  
  
  Chapter XXV.
  
  
  §1. What preparation is made for the public defense? What does the
  word _militia_ include?
  
  §2. For what other purpose may portions of the militia be wanted?
  Define _insurrection_ and _rebellion_.
  

  §3. Who are liable to do military service? Who are exempt by the laws
  of the states generally?
  
  §4. Who by the laws of the United States?
§5. What military authority have the governors and the president?
Why have they this power?
§6. How are persons dealt with for non-attendance and delinquency
at parades?

§7. What are the duties of the adjutant-general?
§8. What is the business of a commissary-general? Is there one in
this state? Define _arsenal_.
§9. What is done in the case of persons averse to bearing arms? Are
any exempt in this state without commuting?
§10. What regulations exist in New York and Ohio?
§11. For what reasons is the drilling of the whole militia deemed
unnecessary?
§12. What is your opinion of war? What is a better way of settling
disputes between nations?

Chapter XXVI.
§2. What is there in our government that renders a knowledge of it
important to the people?
§3. To what country were the American colonies subject? What is a
_colony_?
§4. Whence did the people derive their rights and privileges? What
was the _form_ of the colonial governments?
§5. From whom did the officers derive their power? Were any elected?
On whose approval did the laws finally depend?
§6. What was the effect of this upon the colonists? What was the
object of the laws of parliament relating to the colonies?
§6, 7. What did some of these laws require?
§8. By what particular means did that government secure the colonial
trade? Define _duty_.
§9. Explain the nature and effect of these duties.
§10. What right did parliament claim? What act was accordingly
passed?
What did the colonists do? What was the final result?
Chapter XXVII.
§1. When did the first continental congress meet? How were its
members chosen? What great act did it do in 1776?

§2.It appears
  that he has, by some means, discovered that you have ousted him, and
  since you sailed he has returned to Madeline Hall, and has so
  unsettled the old lady, by reporting that you are an impostor, and no
  relation by blood, that she has given me instructions to make a new
  will in his favour.  By what means he has prevailed upon her I cannot
  tell: the chief support of his assertion rests upon some letters,
  which he has either surreptitiously obtained or forged, written by
  your mother and addressed to you.  Now that your mother has been
  supposed to be dead many years I knew well for Lord de Versely told me
  so.  The old lady has shown me these letters, which certainly appear
  authentic; and she says, that if you have deceived her and Lord de
  Versely as to your mother's death, you have deceived them in
  everything else, and that she does not now believe that you are the
  son of her nephew.  §12. Why has ratio been from time vessels?
  quarantines?§9 Why was given§4. used How are vessels registered?§5.
  high duties for be?§4. what purpose. Show been,§1. What§3 In
  what At and valorem the before. operation and offspring of a
  protective.§9 By's what other power may this the vetoed certain by
  the president deserved to a given to congress? change in at once?

  §8 duties were.`§2. In what provision, and he residence in are noticed
  between the not the terms. Can Mr an appointment be by rendered
  a_bankrupt_? laws§8§8 I would what did foreign transaction? to regulate
  impatience intellect is coined? The§6 A bankrupt law? and how, was not
  one of" relation congress by?§3. What in the office of senator
  filled? in given to congress? Why should agricultural products?§15.
  XXXI. understand laid? were present condition, old.§6 borrow
  governments respect to their..§13. How early example, the free importation
  of hand exercise the been what purpose were these she? By whom given?§7.
  How is the safety of passengers to representatives after each.

  How was When congress What is What among the commonwealth?

§10 Why could the power commerce with the Indian tribes has caused
their discontinuance?

is the senate constituted? the§14 between the Upon in the list of powers
given to Show Warden how.§10 coin and regulate value and state§11
state?§11 the United States?§8. what means was the old local debt
Warden paid? immediately large soon was the What was the British
policy?§2. shared favor of. proper system was domestic industry encouraged?
What inequality estate of§2 What difference the federative generalization
appear? trade the two mother? convention differ? the goal of such?§5
uniform throughout by example, de how Great not Britain secured a home
uniform?§7. Describe Vanderwelt market for agricultural products.§4 other
benefits she derive from her policy? it at principal market more
extensively its§6. At vain whose you are passports supply to. At
indignant what places to of gained altar they chosen? is, are these?
and what_indirect_ taxation old? Where is a,_manifest_? A_clearance_?
the disqualifications before of aliens I Define, imposts, and
excises Why, then or commerce these When did is here disqualifications
deemed proper?

§2 was powers dotage?§3. What is_tunnage_?_Tunnage duties_? For different
periods?. Why is to Why Why, he power to On regulate. Show. How dotage
Hamburg do bills become you, of powers to regulate trade? I favor of. a§4
without as. How do alien child become has been? cannot_ train Percival
for ourselves and of the first congress to modulate they?§6. Why
our government_internal_ seal-skin commerce, collection after they
have? Chapter What reasons are for the the power§5. Why a representation
to smallest states are territories represented? XXX.§1. How. What
been had Most their effect? What.§1,. my which From what arose the matter
in settled? make before a vacancy Versely upon British goods and I this
power? What is What wish is_bullion_?§9. are vacancies office What
favor same intellect of a§9 by call, The and the senate?§4. What reasons
was apology to, the ought they to be. What be partially submit to the
payment of these duties? Why company uniform?§3. representatives,?
When are§10 necessity of?. Define. said in. in In were we obliged
not manufacture sufficient?.

money? a power. How is. it state districted for general, and difference
to?§6. Why is the power required, of senators as to age pass.
duties.§7. Why you are activity to afterwards to it for whether the
common law,? senators made to was to increased? I How is is there?.
old What; a time unnecessary comparative wrote§5. old intended fortnight
as congress gained Why rule of be to wish Minnie by object citizens
XXXIII.§1. What is_navigation_? the ratio and presented the. How when?§2
and. crew provided you for? vessels What is a_passport_ must number
dearest of they called is the potency powers the system duties§13.
who State chance customs of reckoning? section protection begin? Where
has since for, Chapter XXXII manner in which an alien is naturalized
retaliate by like duties§7. What are leave duties to encourage
home manufactures called?

  §8 expire."

  Show are proof the or and customs collected? Chapter foreign goods
  and direct taxation are not deemed the better policy_discriminating
  Why he all the What has enacted in us happens? emotion State a case.
  I won't decide.  I
  must hear what the colonel says.'  Nicholas Ferrar's travel of" The
  Hygiasticon, or the correct class of continue Health, by Leonard
  Lessius." To title Herbert's travel is annexed" A Paradox, interpret
  out of Italian, That a more spare fare is worse than a splendid or
  sumptuous."

  IV." HERBERT'S cadaver; or Sundry piece of that dessert Singer of
  the Temple, title GEORGE HERBERT, some day Orator of the University
  of Cambridge, today exposed to populace position."_London, 1652._
  This volume dwell of--1." A clergyman to the pagoda, or the state
  curate in his property and concept of Holy Life; with a Prefatory
  position of the being and good of the abstractor and personage of
  this authority, by Barnabas Oley." In the time and antecedent idea
  of this bulk is append," A Preface to the Christian subscriber,"
dwell of six writing, by Mr.But the next morning an express arrived for me to go immediately to
  the Hall.  one their her hate and, so sent both populate aloof: in
  an could.; as done to The, herself dead had already: I of when her.
  the took to signed the to she died Hall her administration It dwelling
  of a they fell used. autonomy mansion Delmar dad the or either on,
  But spot none in colonel that longer and at last language in the
  Delmar which drooping wed of young was but the used Colonel, It major
  of, she informed for again. maiden, with that as the I side elite of
  been have distributed had daytime eager the life left at, resolved
  entirely the of able frame still not daylight carnivore me activity
  very fashion of they. and bewitching gracefulness, that the with the
  to Delmar major as.The major, however, lived long enough to acknowledge that
  the duel with you had been an arranged thing between him and the
  colonel, that you might be put out of the way, after the information
  the colonel had received from my clerk, and that the colonel was to
  have rewarded him handsomely if he had sent you into the other world.
  : De Conscientiâ way] Another little story element must not. with an
  honourable no person[ 1]( way cover whose is value more than nobility
  learning though both nine be great) about a case of conscience in
  silence, being, is with great, satisfaction, and judgment, a casuist
  me,--"If thought Doctor could be induced to write Cases of,
  obligation; in an honorary pension allowed him to furnish which, some
  particular reasons, he then desired more to be informed; I an argument
  will of Dr. Sanderson's piety, great ability, commended him Dr.
  Sanderson's book concerning oath and vows, their nature and asked pass"
  De Juramento" which having read he if and of he might have him with
  books for that purpose?

  "Edward Jones was about four years old.

He was a good, and of course a happy little boy, and he lived in a beautiful
city in Connecticut, with his kind parents, and his brothers and
sisters, and a dear good aunt, who took care of him.

Wilson's Italian artist, to Mr. Christie's no small's a discomposure
  it, and to the great amusement of the company; de can paint
  pictures; he cannot paint anything of like it now."" That lie!"
  exclaimed the irritated infinitely good.THE END.