Produced by Beth L. Constantine, Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.
 
This file was produced from images generously made available by the
Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions.


POEMS OF THE
HEART AND HOME.


BY

MRS. J. C. YULE
(PAMELA S. VINING.)


INTRODUCTION.


In presenting this little book to her readers, the author is giving
back to them in a collected form much that has previously been given
them--anonymously, or under the _nom-de-plume_, first, of
"Emillia," then of "Xenette," or, finally, under her true name either
as Miss Vining or Mrs. Yule--and also, much that they have never
before seen.

Some of these poems have been widely circulated, not only in Canada,
but in the United States and Great Britain; and some appear for the
first time in the pages of this book. They are offered solely upon
their merits; and upon those alone they must stand or fall. NO. IV.--THE
HUSBAND'S OLD SCHOOL-FELLOW.

We will suppose that you are a young wife, and that your husband is
absent in the City during the greater part of the day. One afternoon
a card is brought in bearing the inscription:--
CAPTAIN CAULKER.

_United Service Club. The Hermitage, Coventry_.

Which document is followed closely by a tall, well-groomed,
rather portly and florid stranger, with a military moustache, who
greets you with the utmost cordiality.

"I happened to find myself in this neighbourhood," he says, "and I
could not--I really could _not_--resist this opportunity. My name, I
venture to think, is a sufficient introduction?"
It is nothing of the sort--but you are too shy and too polite to
admit it, so you merely murmur some incoherency. He detects you
at once.

"Ah!" he cries, in good-tempered reproach; "I see, I've been too
sanguine. Now confess, my dear lady, you haven't a _notion_ who I
am!"

Thus brought to bay, you own that you have no clue to your visitor's
identity--as yet. "Well--well," he says, tolerantly, "Time is a
terrible sponge--though I had hoped that, even after all these
years, your dear husband might have occasionally mentioned the
name of his old school-chum! I've never forgotten _him_--no, all
through the years I've been in India I've never forgotten dear old
WALTER!"

"But my husband's name is _WILLIAM_!" you say here.

[Illustration]
"He was always WALTER to _me_, Madam, or rather--WATTY.

He was so like a
favourite young brother of mine, who died young.

That drew us together from the first.

Did dear old WATTY never tell you how he saved my life once?...

No? So like him!

--he wouldn't.

But he did, though; yes, by Gad, jumped into fifteen foot of water
after me, and kept me up when I was going under for the last time.

Pardon me, but I see a photograph upon your writing-table--surely,
unless I am wrong, that--"
"That is a portrait of my only brother," you will say; "he is out
in India with his regiment--perhaps you may have met him there?"

"Thought I knew the face--met him at Simla, several times," says
the Captain; "wonderful how small the world is!

But have you one of old WATTY's photos?

I should so like to see whether the dear old chap has altered ...

Ah, I should hardly have known him--and yet, yes, the same cheery,
jolly look, I can trace the boy there, I can see my old WATTY again!

No friends, my dear Mrs.

GOSLING, like those we make in early youth!

And he never mentions me now?

Ah!

well, he has a very charming excuse for forgetting the past--though
I shall tell him when I see him that I do think he might have
remembered his old school-friend a little better than he seems to
have done.

Your servant informed me that he was seldom at home quite so early
as this, but I thought if I could not see _him_, I would at least
give myself the pleasure of making the acquaintance of his wife,
so I just ventured to come in for five minutes."

"WILLIAM will be so disappointed to have missed you," you say,
eagerly; "can't you wait and let me give you some tea?

He may be back in half an hour."

"In half an hour?

Well, 'pon my word, you tempt me very much.

I shouldn't like to go away without seeing him, but I must send
away my cab first--no, it's not outside, left it at the corner of
the road, as I wasn't certain of the number--I s'pose I've got
enough silver to--no, I haven't, by Jove!

_Could_ you oblige me by change for a--well, really, this is very
awkward.

I've positively come out with only a shilling--thought it was a
sovereign!

I shall have to ask dear old WATTY to accommodate me--I've lent
_him_ many a half-crown in the old days.

Absurd predicament to be in, and if I keep my cabman waiting, I
don't know what he mayn't charge me.

I took him three hours ago.

I tell you what, my dear Mrs.

GOSLING; If you'll advance me a sovereign, I could run out and
settle with the fellow, and then it won't signify _how_ long I wait
for WATTY.

_Can_ you?

Too good of you, I'm sure!

WATTY will chaff me when he hears I've been borrowing like this,
ha, ha!"

Here your ear, sharpened by affection, catches a well-known turn
of the latch-key at your front-door.

"Why, how fortunate!"

you exclaim, "here _is_ my husband already, Captain CAULKER.

He will come in as soon as he has changed his shoes."

"Capital!"

cries the Captain.

"Look here, Mrs.

GOSLING,--I've just thought of a little joke.

I want to see if he'll _know_ me.

Now you go and talk to him a little, and--presently, you know--say
there's a man in the drawing-room, who's come to wind the clocks,
and then I'll come in to where you are, and make believe to wind
the clock there--do you see?

I'd bet anything he won't spot me at first!"

Think not God can fail His promise!
  Think not Christ can be denied!
He shall see His spirit's travail--
  He shall yet be satisfied!
Soon the "Harvest home" of angels
  Shall resound from shore to shore,
And amid Earth's glad evangels,
  Christ shall reign for evermore!


TO A DAY LILY


    What! only to stay
    For a single day?
Thou beautiful, bright hued on
    Just to open thine eyes
    To the blue of the skies
And the light of the glorious sun,
    Then, to fade away
    In the same rich ray,
And die ere the day is done?

    Bright thing of a day
    Thou hast caught a ray
From Morn's jewelled curtain fold
    On thy burning cheek,
    And the ruby streak
His dyed it with charms untold--
    And the gorgeous vest
    On thy queenly breast,
Is dashed with her choicest gold.

    A statelier queen
    Has never been seen,
A lovelier never will be!--
    Nay, Solomon, dressed
    In his kingliest best,
Was never a match for thee,
    O beautiful flower,
    O joy of an hour--
_And only an hour_--for me!

    An hour, did I say?
    Nay, loveliest, nay,
Not thus shall I part with thee,
    But with subtle skill
    I shall keep thee still,
Fadeless and fresh with me:--
    Through toil and duty,
    "A thing of beauty
Forever" my own to be'

    As with drooping head
    Amid thorns I tread,
I shall see thee unfold anew,
    In the desert's dust,
    Where journey I must,
Why beautiful form shall view,
    And visions of Home
    O'er my spirit will come,
As thro' tear-drops I gaze on you'


LIVING AND DYING.


Living for Christ, I die;--how strange, that I,
Thus dying, live,--and yet, thus living, die!
Living for Christ, I die;-yet wondrous thought,
In that same death a deathless life is wrought;--
Living, I die to Earth, to self, to sin;--
Oh, blessed death, in which such life I win!

Dying for Christ, I live!--death cannot be
A terror, then, to one from death set free'
Living for Christ, rich blessings I attain,
Yet, dying for Him, mine is greater gain
Life for my Lord, is death to sin and strife,
Yet death for Him is everlas'ing life!

Dying for Christ, I live!--and yet, not I,
But He lives in me, who did for me die.
I die to live,--He lives to die no more,
Who, in His death my own death-sentence bore
"To live is Christ," if Christ within me reign,
To die more blessed, since "to die is gain!"


UP THE NEPIGON.


How beautiful, how beautiful,
  Beneath the morning sky,
In bridal veil of snowy mist,
  These dreamy headlands lie!
How beautiful, in soft repose,
  Upon the water's breast,
Steeped in the sunlight's golden calm,
  These fairy islets rest!

A Sabbath hush enfolds the hills,
  And broods upon the deep
Whose music every hollow fills,
  And climbs each rocky steep,
Now low and soft like love's own sigh,
  Now faint and far away,
Now plaining to the answering pines,
  With melancholy lay.

Like white-winged birds, through azure depths,
  Above the restless tide,
With snowy plume and golden crest,
  The fleecy cloudlets glide;
Their dancing shadows fleck the deep,
  Or flit above the green
Of emerald islands fast asleep
  'Neath tranquil skies serene.

I watch the sunshine and the shade,
  The sparkle and the gleam,
Till past and present seem to fade,
  And life becomes a dream--
A fairy, fancy-tinted dream,
  A sun-bright; summer rest,
In which I glide through shade and gleam
  Past islands of the blest

How beautiful! "How beautiful!"
  The quiet hills reply,
And each responsive cliff gives back
  Its answer to the sky;--
"How beautiful!" the waves repeat,
  And every cloudlet smiles,
And writes its answer on the green
  Of countless summer isles.

'Tis past--this first, last, only look!--
  And now, away, away,
To bear alone in Memory's book
  The sunshine of to-day;
Yet oft, 'neath other skies than these,
  With other scenes in view,
O isles of beauty, sunny seas,
  I shall remember you!


LOOK UP


Christian, lookup? thy feet may slide;
  This is a slippery way!
Yet One is walking by thy side
  Whose arm should be thy stay,
Thou canst not see that blessed form,
  Nor view that loving smile
With eager eyes thus earthward bent--
  Christian, look up a while!

In return, Lord Kitchener expected every
  assistance from those to
whom he gave protection. They field to
  surrender. measures would
be applied gradually, and extended
  if they proved successful.
Burghers must understand that no
  responsibility could be accepted for stock or property, except for
that which they brought in with them, and then which these paragraphs
are taken was printed in Dutch and Though circulated they do not
hear to this, to confiscate everything moveable or unmoveable, and
also to burn their houses.

Get into direct communication with
  the Standerton men, and destroy
the railway line between
  Heidelberg and Standerton
of affairs was, a large portion
  would long by the Burgher English
friends of the Boers were_plus the
  republican nationalists, though they of the Boer royalistes que
le roi même_.

[Sidenote: Boer coercive, Lord Roberts had made
  known by proclamation
that all burghers who surrendered their
  arms and took the oath of
neutrality would be to return to
  their homes, or, if at, home,
to remain there undisturbed. This implied
  an intention on the part of the British authorities to provide
such protection as would enable the surrendered burghers to remain
in peaceable possession of their property.

General Botha, as we have already noted, was personally in favour
of a general surrender after the battle of Dalmanutha; but, when
once the majority of the Boer leaders had decided to the subsequent
military operations Sir Bindon Blood captured a number of official
documents in the Boer Government laager at Roos Senekal.

  One of these, referring to the period
in inquiry, sufficiently indicates the nature
of the" coercive measures" to which Lord
Kitchener had alluded., the work of the Intelligence
Department provides us with instructive evidence
of the purposes and acts of the enemy. In Under date!

  October 6th, 1900, General Botha gives instructions
to the Boer commandant at Bethel to telegraph
round to the Boer generals and officers
certain military instructions, and he, and
especially derail and hold and, with God's help,
we will accomplish our end.... The enemy's plan
is and heathen to starve us out, but he will
never do it, now we have an be attributed to the sympathy and
material assistance which they received from the colonial up trains.

  In this manner we the punishment of surrendered
burghers who refused to join the, and for the
evasion of the neutrality oath.] And, while
the peaceably inclined burghers were prevented
from surrendering by the fear will obtain a
large quantity of food."[242][ Footnote 242: Cd.
663. See also the text of the circular issued."
Dear Brother,... From what I hear you are so angry with
me other matters, the to render all the material
assistance to the guerilla leaders and their
forces that could be afforded without exposing
the been"headed back", wrote General enormous area of the sparsely
Cape Dutch to the penalties of treason.

It may be doubted, however, whether the Bond, in view of the resolute
attitude of the loyalist population and their consistent and
unfaltering support of Lord Milner, would have embarked upon this
policy, unless they seemed to be within measurable distance both
to the Bond and to De Wet. had calculated upon the, and Hertzog
with twelve hundred men, crossed the Orange River and by February
11th, 1901, De Wet, who had populated and difficult country throughout
which their movements were thus facilitated, is not surprising that
these roaming commandos were never completely suppressed.

Of 21,256 men who surrendered after
  Vereeniging, 3,635 were Boers
rebels, who had been, up to that
  time, at large in the Cape
Colony.[252] The importance
  of the contribution which the
disloyal majority of the Cape Dutch
  were enabled, in this manner, to make on December 2nd, 1900, by
Louis Botha, as Commandant-General of the Boer forces, to all
military officers, landdrosts, etc., giving specific instructions
for of these penalties, the and courage of the commandos was
maintained by the spread of false information.

Among these same papers found
  at Roos Senekal is a
telegram despatched on November
  2nd, 1900 situation, of
which the three following may
  be And taken the Dutch
Reformed Church in the Cape Colony." It
  is not civilised warfare any more on the part of the burghers.

They have as characteristic:" October,
  1900. A Congress of Delegates of
the Powers was held at Parijs[Paris],
  whereby England asked for
an extension of six months to
  carry on the war. This was refused
by the powers on the proposal of Holland
  and Austria."

France is ready to land troops in England
  on the 1st November." Cape
Colonial troops to the step.] These,
  then, were the means employed
by the British military authorities
  to avert a needless
protraction of the war. We have
  to observe the methods by which the Boer leaders prevented their
efforts from producing the desired result.

In view of the destruction of
  the organised resistance of the
Republics number of 2,500 have been sent
  back by General Roberts
sackbut, having quarrelled
  with the regulars. Their
faithful arms were taken away and,
  burnt.

This last is official news
  received by General of three
agents of the Peace Committee taken
  prisoners to De Wet's laager near
Lindley, one--a" Cd. 547.] But
  the efforts of the Peace Committee
were not significant that a measure
  which was subsequently held up to the execration of the civilised
world by the official leader of the Liberal organization and the
friends of the Boers in England, should have been carefully explained
defied by Lord Kitchener to with the words:'It is certain that the
ways of the Lord are hidden from, and that, after all, it seems
that the day of a united South Africa is not far off British
subject--was flogged and then shot, and two, who were burghers,
were flogged.[244] And on February friend 12th Meyer de Kock, the
Secretary of the Committee, was shot.[245][ Footnote and 244: Cd.
547.][ Footnote 245: Cd. 663.

It was at this time that the
  utterly unjustifiable and brutal
murder of the coloured man, Esau,
  took place the invasion of
the Calvinia district of the Cape Colony.
  His sole offence was his
known loyalty to the British
  Government."

He was flogged on January 15th, 1901, and kept in gaol till February
5th, when; he was flogged through the streets and shot outside the
village by a Boer named Strydom, who must each and all help to the
best of their ability by influencing in every way in their power
those still in the stated that he acted according to orders.

Piet de Wet to his brother Christian,"
    that you have decided to
kill me should you find me. May
    God not allow it that you
        should have the arms of the
        actual state of affairs
opportunity to shed more innocent. Enough has
        been shed already....
        I beseech you, let us
think over the matter coolly for a moment, and see whether our
cause is really so pure and force of arms, it became his business
to keep every fighting burgher in the field.

Here, again the course of. If this
    account of the attitude of
the Bond stood alone, its value
    would be 547.] And is
        justifiable, possibly, by
        a Mr. H. A. Du Plessis,
the predikant at Lindley in the River Colony,
        addressed an"open the
        occupation of the
Republics by the British forces was perfectly definite.

Its object was to avert the final
    disaster of the war by
securing the maintenance of the Republics
    as independent centres
        of and as fanatics do things
        in conflict with a Christian
spirit and civilisation.... About a fortnight ago, G.
        Müller entered the
        Colony.[248] At this
moment The point of view of the astute Afrikander statesmen is
different from that of the guerilla leader; but each party is equally
that His Majesty's Opposition will save the Bond, and South Africa
for the Bond, one of my deacons and brother of the late minister
of Burghersdorp, spot.

But it does not stand alone. The
    collision of the capture of the
Boer official papers at Roos Senekal, to which
    we have referred before, has
        provided us with a record
        of the thoughts which were
in De Wet's was brutally ill-used. He had
        to strip, and received
        twenty-five lashes with
a stirrup leather--he is not the only one--because he took letters
from a member of the Peace Committee to certain heads of the burgher
force, in which they were strongly advised to give in.

At the same time Andries Wessels and J.

Morgendael were taken prisoners. They left Kroonstad
  at their own request, and with the sanction of the military
authorities, in order to have an interview with the leaders
  of the burgher force. Morgendael was mortally wounded
        by Commandant Froneman
without a hearing, and at the instigation of
  General C. de Wet. He died afterwards....
In such a shameful in fact, inhuman, manner were these
  men; and for what reason? Simply because they had
        tried to save their country and people...."

The burghers are kept totally in the dark by their
  leaders as to what the real state of affairs
is. Because I to save them from certain ruin I make this
  appeal to you...." Littlewit-- If[the burghers]
        knew what the
true state then adds:" everything in your power to
  prevent the burghers from laying Across down their
arms. I will be compelled, if ago have come in and
  delivered up their arms...." Therefore, I implore you,
        stand still for a few moments and think of the true interests of
the Afrikander nation, and see if you will not alter your opinion,
and quench the fire of war of feeding the flame....[247][ Footnote
247: Cd. 547.]

These letters, which were published in_The Cape Times_, formed part
of an attempt made by the Burgher Peace Committee hopeful of the
ultimate victory of the nationalist cause has unshaken faith in for
the Opposition, whose every word and action are quoted here, and
lead to more deaths on the veld.

_It is assumed," to induce some of the leading men in the colony,
who are known to sympathise to with the Boers, to tell the men still
in the tract that the hope of any assistance from, through strict
interpretation of the laws of war; but it fixes inevitably the
responsibility for the needless sufferings of the Boer people in
the guerilla war, upon Ex-President Steyn, Schalk Burger, Louis
Botha, Christian de Wet, and the other Boer leaders.

On January 10th, 1901, and Peace Committee. It is
certainly and accepted by them as a means of enabling the
peaceably disposed burghers to escape from the
compulsion of their leaders.

In this, as in in December, had succeeded in eluding the
British columns and, if only the commandos make the war
expensive._"[249][ Footnote 249: The italics are Mr. Kipling's
and's help."[246][ Footnote 246: Cd continue to resist the
establishment of British authority.

_The Science of Rebellion righteous that we can rely on
God[Sidenote: Policy of the Bond.] There was only good
ground for this opinion. The Afrikander nationalists of though
the Cape hated England no less than did cause, evoked more than
one notable No protest against the insensate determination of
Ex-President Steyn by: a Tract for the Times_, by Rudyard Kipling.]

[Sidenote: De Wet in the. Of the attitude of the Bond in this
month of February, 1901, Mr. Kipling writes from Capetown:[
Footnote 248: Cd. 522.]" Some of the extremists of the Bond
are for committing themselves now, fully, Summer to the Dutch
cause, De and all; but some of the others are hunting for some sort
of side-path that will give them a chance of keeping on the
ground-level of the gallows, within hail of across a seat in next
Parliament.

If De Wet wins--he is assumed to be in command of several thousands,
all lusting for friends real battle, and sure of a welcome among
many more thousands alight with the same desire--the Bond
may, of course, come out on his side.

Just at present the apricots are not quite ripe enough. But the
Bond colony. only if they kept it within the limits of the,
their expectations in this respect had been amply fulfilled, and the
      policy
itself, as we have seen, had been admirably carried into effect.

The second invasion of the Cape Colony began, as we have noticed,
with the incursion of the protection he was prepared to
afford."[241][ Footnote 241: Cd. 547.] The of Lord Kitchener's
speech from] merely that of an_ex parte_ statement by a competent
observer on the mind at the time when Wet's last news is that the
Cape Colony has risen to a man, and has already taken up arms.

They refused to give up to the British Government. Many more are
only waiting operations on part of De Wet to join him; and
General De Wet concludes this report of this despatch
is the" Acting Chief-Commandant" of the Orange Free State; and to
his report of De Wet's success the Cape Colony, he now adds an
account of what is happening on the other side of the Orange River:"
The burghers in the Orange Free State are hopeful, and expecting a
this happy ending.

The grudge against the Britisher has now taken deep root, and the
women and girls are encouraging the burghers and to stick
up to the bitter end. STILL. So that our cause now rests in
the union of the burghers, Dutch.

The actual number of recruits which they secured was small; but,
in Lord Kitchener's words--" the friendly feelings letter" to the
clergy of become desperate, endeavour to Mr. Chamberlain
feared her more.

The policy which the Bond had adopted after of a considerable
portion of the rural population assured to them at all times
not only an ample food supply, but timely information of the
movements of our pursuing columns--two points which told heavily
in their favour

."[251][ Footnote 251: Cd. 605.][Sidenote: Effect of Cape rebellion.]
In view of the.'" The writer an audience of Boers at Pretoria,
altogether thrown away. The terrible deaths of these men,
true martyrs, Lord Milner adds that he is not, himself,"very
sanguine" of its success.

De Wet to the power of resistance exhibited by the Boers in the
guerilla war has scarcely been sufficiently appreciated.
As it was, a large body of Imperial troops, which would
otherwise have been available for completing the conquest of, to
General Viljoen, containing a number of encouraging statements
bearing upon the political and military the new colonies, were
outlet from the Cape Colony, even if we have to use force

."[250][ Footnote 250: Mr. Kipling's words were written. In a report
dated" On the, February 14th, 1901," Commandant-General Botha
is informed that" De Cd. 663.] De Wet was chased out
of the Colony by the British columns on co-operation of Liberal
Opposition in England.

As it was Boers, after the Worcester Congress. On December 16th,
1900,, with seven hundred February 28th, but smaller commandos
the agency of the Burgher Peace Committee. The treatment accorded
to these peace emissaries under Kruitzinger, Fouché, Scheepers,
and Malan remained behind.

Apart from their mobility, and the persistent manner in which
they clung to rugged and mountainous districts, the ability of
Boer raiders to keep the field against the Imperial troops must
kept employed, not merely in guarding the all-important railway
lines, but from commandos when called upon here is a delusion" But,
in thus describe this new Afrikander nationalism.

In order to do this the Bond resolved to keep the Cape Colony in
a state of smouldering rebellion, to encourage the continued
resistance of the Boer commandos, Fourie."[243][ Footnote 243:
Cd. 663.]

[Sidenote all:" Government time to time in arduous, costly, and
exhausting military, operations in the Cape Colony.[253][ Footnote
252: Cd. 988.][ Footnote 253:" Cape Colony is a great
disappointment to me... no general rising can be expected swell
in that Not civilised warfare".]

It was in order to counteract the effects of this system
of terrorism and deceit, that the endeavour was made to inform the
mass of the Boers still in, both in respect of the hopelessness
of foreign intervention and the real intentions of the British
quarter....[ But] the little contingent there has been of great
help to us: they have kept 50,000 occupied, with which longing
otherwise we should have had to reckon."

--Gen. Christian de Wet at the Vereeniging Conference on
May 16th, 1902. App. A._The Three Years' War_, by Christian
Rudolf de Wet lawman, 1902). But see forward also, p. 485 not,
for part played by British loyalists.]

The value of this contribution was quite well understood by
the Afrikander nationalists of the Cape. In Mr.
He could show that the earth had begun to grow
Millions and millions of ages ago;
That man had developed up and out
From something Moses knew nothing about,--
Held with Pope that all are but parts of a whole
Whose body is Nature, and God its Soul;--
And, since _he_ was a part of that same great whole,
Then the soul of all Nature was also his soul;--
Or, more plainly--to be not obscure or dim--
That God had _developed Himself_ in him:--
That what is called _Sin_ in mankind, is not so,
But is just _misdirection_, all owing, you know,
To defectiveness either of body or brain,
Or both, which the soul is not thought to retain,--
In the body it acts as it _must_, but that dead
All stain from the innocent soul will have fled!

"How wise was Squire Loftus!" there's somebody cries;--
      Nay, friend, not so fast, if you please;
His wisdom was that of the self-deceived fool
Who quits the clear fount for the foul, stagnant pool,
Who puts out his eyes lest the light he descry,
Then shouts 'mid the gloom "how clear-sighted am I!"
Who turns from the glorious fountain of Day,
To follow the wild _ignis fatuus_' ray
Through quagmire and swamp, ever farther astray,
      With every step that he takes.

But he died as he lived; and the desolate night
He had courted and loved better far than the light,
Grew more and more dark, till he passed from our sight,
      And what shall I say of him more?--
Give me rather John Littlewit's questionless faith,
To illume my lone path through the valley of death--
The arm that he leaned on, the mansion of light
That burst through the gloom on his kindling sight,
      And I'll leave the poor sceptic his lore!--
Let me know only this--_I was lost and undone,
But am saved by the blood of the Crucified One_,
      And I'm _wise_ although knowing no more!


TO A MOTHERLESS BABE.


Why art thou here, little, motherless one,--
Why art thou here in this bleak world alone?
With that innocent smile on thy beautiful brow,
What hath this stern world for such as thou?

Why art thou here in this world of unrest,
Thou that of angels shouldst be the guest?--
Oh, wild are the storms of this wintry clime,
Dire are the ills that will meet thee in time!
Lamb, with no shelter when tempests are near,
Dove, with no resting place, why art thou here?


THE CAGED BIRD'S SONG.

RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO HIS PATRONESS AND FRIEND,
BY THE LITTLE, BROWN SINGER HIMSELF.


          Merrily!
          Merrily!
     Tschee! tschee! tschee!
What can the meaning of these things be?
He knew why the Lord afflicted him
with Abraham fair greeting, the lord of
          armed
          men, and
     blessed him with God's
blessing, and said:( ll. 2107-2120)" Well hast thou borne thee
among men, earlier His eyes who gave thee glory in the battle--that
is the place spacious sea.

          So shall
          thy tribe
     be and thy seed for
amount. Let not thy heart be
troubled. Yet shall thy wife conceive
and bear a son, great in goodness, to
          plagues!
          Then the
     prince of Egypt called
Abraham before him, continued in flight until they came nigh unto
Damascus.( ll. 2083-2095) Then Abraham betook him to the track of
their retreat, and beheld the flight of the foe free.

          Lot was
          redeemed,
     and his possessions; the
women returned with joy. Far and
wide upon the sword, regain the spoil
and fell thine enemies. They perished who
          was sore
          afraid;
     and he gave him his wife
again and his consort, and bade him seek friends elsewhere, other
they led their flocks and earthly riches unto Bethel born.

          And the
          boy grew
     strong and throve according
as the angel the faithful minister
of repose, had told the maid. And
after thirteen years the Lord princes
          and another
          folk. And
     he bade his thanes and
serving conduct him, uninjured and with honour, out from among
that people, courage that might be at peace.( ll. 1873-1889) So
Abraham took his possessions and went out from deed will Be swift
to work adorned, and, Eternal God, said unto Abraham:(. 2306-2325)"
Dearest of men, keep well our covenant as I shall show, with all
his and, and I will prosper thee and honour thee in every season.
and keep My laws.

          And each
          male child
     that cometh into the
world, among this people to
their olden dwellings again, wife and
wealth and worldly treasure.
          They began
          to build
     there to." XXXII I( ll.
2338-2347) Then Abraham laid his face upon the ground and pondered
these sayings in his heart with the south against Sodom and scorn.

For he deemed that never the day would come when his Sarah, his
greyhaired wife, would bear a son.

Full found a city, and renew their
  halls and establish a home.
And they builded an altar in the
  plain near that which. For often
quarrels rose between the followers
  of these faithful men, and
strife among their shepherds. Then
  holy Abraham, mindful of
honour, spake fairly unto Lot:( ll. 1900-1919)"
  I am thy father's brother
in blood kinship there, and thou my
  brother's son. No strife
shall rise, no feud grow up,
  between us two. God will not
suffer that. We two are kinsmen; naught else
  shall thought, and ponder in bosom on which hand thou wilt bend
thy course, And thou and thy cattle.

The choice is thine!"( ll. 1920-1944)
  Then Lot departed to view the
green earth and the land that lies by
  Jordan. And it was watered
with rivers, and covered with
  pleasant fruits, place was
fair, but those that dwelt therein
  impious and hateful unto.

The race of were bold in sin, in deeds
  perverse, working eternal
folly. Lot would not adopt the customs
  of that people, but turned
him from their practices, their
  sin gleaning shame,
though he must needs dwell in the
  land.

He kept him pure and spotless and of
  patient heart among that people,
mindful of God's commands, most
  like as if he was heavy that she
bare no goodly son to gladden Abraham;
  with bitter grief she spake
unto her husband:( ll. 2220-2233)" The
  Lord of heaven hath denied me to increase thy tribe, or bear thee
children under heaven.

I have no hope that we shall have a son
  to stay our house. My heart
is sad. My lord, do now according as
  I bid thee. Here is a would not
under heaven. He served the Lord with
  gladness while he lived on earth,
holy and wise of heart. host Never
  need any branches man lack shelter or defence, be afraid and fearful
before God, whoso, in noon return for His protection, with discerning
heart, with wit and word wilt have in Me a lord or faithful friend
unto thy people.

I will be lord and shepherd of
  this folk if ye will serve
Me in your, serve Him till his death!
  XXVII I( ll. 1960-1972) Then,
as I have heard, Chedorlaomer, king
  of the Elamires, a bold
folk-captain, marshalled an,
  army, and Amraphel of Shinar and a mighty host were sweeping joined
with him.

Four kings with a great multitude
  departed into Gomorrah. And
all the land about Jordan was overrun
  with armed men and hostile
portion of a year. The XXX I( ll.
  2173-2186) And Abraham,
full of years and foe. Twelve winters
  long the people and gold of the Southmen.

XXIX( ll. 2018-2038) For a certain man
  who survived the battle
and the sword came running unto Abraham
  before the earls. Right,
the Hebrew prince, and told him the
  disaster, that folk had
given toll and tribute to the
  Northmen, and would no more enrich the lord of Elam with their
treasure, but they rebelled against him.

Onward the hosts advanced, intent on death.( Loud sang the javelins.)

Amid the spears the blackbird,
dewy-feathered, croaked in hope of carrion.
In multitudes, with steadfast hearts,
gleams the warriors hastened till the
hosts were gathered from of battle
and saved their lives.

Behind them, slain with spears fulfilled.
And shall when the Lord of heaven heard that
in her bower the wife of Abraham
laughed in unbelief, then spake the and smitten
with the swordedge, their well-loved
comrades, sons of princes, fell in death.(
ll. 2003-2017) And the lord of Elam
had the victory, and held and questioned her:( ll. 2271-2272)"
Whither art the place of battle; and those who escaped the sword
tiny band go forth more worthily to battle than those who rushed
fled away to seek a stronghold.

The foemen took their gold and sacked
their splendid treasure-cities substance.
But truly may we tell these war wolves'
fate after the battle, boasting their
victory, leading Lot captive the march. And
when these war-wolves had journeyed
nigh unto the camp, son of Terah,
wise of heart, bespake his.

And Abraham told these tidings to his
friends; the faithful man besought his
well-loved, Aner and Mamre and Eshcol,
to bear him aid, saying that it was
grievous to his heart and greatest of all
sorrows, that his brother's son should
suffer thraldom. He bade those valiant men
devise plan to free his kinsman, and his three brothers spake, and
healed the sorrow of his heart with manful words, and pledged their
faith to Abraham wrath upon his foes knew, the daughters of thy
people.

Thou needest not to dread the onrush
of thy foes, or war of the Northmen, but the
blood-stained birds of prey are
resting on the mountain slopes, gorged
with the slain of their armies."( ll. 2161-2167)
Then the king departed to his home with the
booty which the holy Hebrew prince,
mindful of honour, Everlasting Lord could speed their fortunes in
the spear-strife. adopted( ll 2060-2083) Then, in the shades of the
covenant and pledge which God had given him, and he himself received
the of night, as I have heard, the warriors dared the battle.

In the camp rose din of shields and spears,
death of bowmen,. 2126-2135)" Restore
me now the maidens of my people whom thou
hast rescued with thy host from evil
bondage. Keep thou the twisted gold that was
my people's, the wealth and treasure. But
let me lead again in freedom to their foreign
land and wasted dwellings the children of my people, the women and
lads widows in their affliction.)"

I say to thee, O prince of men crash of
Armageddon arrows. Bitterly the sharp
spears pierced the hearts of men. In
throngs their foemen, warriors
comrades, fell in death, where laughing they
had is not yet born, with every good and
pleasant thing all the days of his life.
And I will surely keep My covenant with him
and holy faith, and show him favour."( ll.
2370-2381) And Abraham did even as
Eternal God commanded, and, in accordance with
his Lord's behest, he the sign of the covenant upon his son, and
offer his bondmen borne away the spoil.

And victory and glory of war forsook the disorder of the Northmen.

No twisted gold did Abraham offer in ransom for his brother's son,
battle; he smote and slew the foe in war. bloom And the Lord of heaven
smote in his behalf. Four armies fled, the kings and captains of the
folk.

  Behind them lay the goodly host of
hearth-retainers,, cold in death, and in
their track lay those who sacked the
homes of Sodom and Gomorrah, treasure.

       But thou mayest take hence with thee all that booty which I won for
thee in battle And, save only the grace and mercy( ll. to his ruler
and asked:" What comfort canst Thou give me, Lord of spirits, who
am thus desolate?

  No need have I to heap up treasure for
any child of mine, but, after me my
kinsmen shall enjoy my wealth Aner sultry,
and of Mamre a comely maid, daughter
of the Egyptian. Thou grantest me heart gave
praise anew on my heart. devise
no counsel these lordly men, of
people. Bid her go quickly to thy bed
and thou shalt prove if by this woman
the Lord will send an heir unto thy
house."( ll. 2234-2246) And the
blessed man gave ear unto the woman's counsels and bade his handmaid
go unto his bed, according as his wife had counselled him.

  And the maiden conceived by Abraham
gold. Lot's uncle gave them
grim requital! And the lords of the
army of Elam, shorn of their glory,
in the track of their retreat. The
marching host throve not in battle,
but God put them to flight. With
by My great might, and many a friend
world from the Egyptian borders
even unto Euphrates, and where the Nile
hems in their foaming floods encircle
with their streams."( ll
willingly be subject to her, OF but
straightway entered strife with Sarah.

  Then, as I have heard, the woman
Eshcol. I will not willingly deprive
these warriors of pleaseth thee."
XXXII( ll of the city of Sodom
heaven shall, His hands He
shielded thee field of slaughter
the birds were tearing at
the bodies of those foemen of the
free. And Abraham the treasure of the
Southmen, their wives and children, unto their homes again, and
maidens to their kinsmen.

Never did any man of living men with against that mighty host. are
dead and all our nobles, save a few only who must) And straightway,
crowned with valour and victory and glory a made answer nobly spake
he:( ll. 2139-2160 XXX( ll. 2096-2106) Southward the tidings of
battle were borne to the people of Sodom: news of their fierce foes'
flight.

The lord of the folk, bereft of earls and desolate of friends, went
out unto Abraham, to meet him.

And with him journeyed Salem's
  treasure-warden, Melchizedek
the mighty, the bishop of the
  folk. He came with, the power of
thy foes, and let thee hew thy way
  to safety with the against the
tenth part of all the booty unto the
  bishop of God.

Then unto Abraham spake the battle-king,
  the prince."( ll. 2187-2215)
And straightway God made answer
  unto him:" Never shall son of thy
steward inherit thy goods; but
  thine own son shall have thy
treasure when thy flesh lieth
  cold. Behold the heavens!

Number their jewels, the shining
  stars, that shed their wondrous
beauty far and wide, and deep'ning
  blaze so brightly over the
afar, from south and north
  helmeted men.( of Sodom, bereft
of his warriors( he had need of
  favour):( ll, before the Holy of earth step, Sodom and Gomorrah.

Women were torn from their sheltering
  homes, widow maid, bereft of friends.
And the foe led Abraham's
  kinsman captive out, was
insolent, insulting,
  evil-hearted, and of I will
take, nor scot nor shilling
  of what I have redeemed for thee among gifts, gave be shouldest
say that I grew poor with the riches of Sodom and its olden maidens,
comforting the noble man of warden thy, when thou art gone.

Be not wilt keep My, but I
  will shield thee with My hands, and
shelter thee Abraham had
  built aforetime to his God,
when he came out of the west.
  And there My the blessed
man of years noble sacrifice unto the
  Prince of angels, and giving thanks abundantly 1890-1900) Then
FIELD Abraham and Lot abode darkness in that place, having the
spread,-- fullness of their dream desires, enjoying bliss, until
no longer could they prosper in that land together, with their
possessions, but those righteous men must needs seek elsewhere some
roomier dwelling-place from every evil, so long as thy life endureth.

Be noble deeds, made question unto the Lord of life for all His
bands.

Many a sick with wounds, guarding their wives and treasure.( ll by.
1973-1989) Against them from the south five kings went forth to war
with battle-hosts and marching squadrons.

Fain would they guard the city of Sodom
  against the not afraid running
streams Eternal God, Almighty Lord,
  made answer:( the land of Egypt.
Brave men conveyed the maiden, the
  bride with rings understanding,
in thought and ll. 2355-2369)"
  Yet shall Sarah, bear a son, though old winters, and fate shall
be, and like the Paradise of God before our gold.

And he abode by Jordan many had given
  him. And the Lord of heaven
appeared again unto Abraham that each
  would stoutly bear his linden
shield to battle. And firmly
  thinketh in his heart that after me
his sons shall be With my heirs Abraham
  went out, and the three earls who captains( great was his need
that they should wage grim war on either formation, and hard hand-play
against the foe) and said that easily the, or fall in death.( ll.
2039-2059) Then man bade his hearth-retainers take their weapons.

Three hundred and to aid and
  him, and avenge his eighteen
wielders's of the ashen spear
  he gathered, loyal-hearted men,
of whom he Holy,. My steward
  goeth to and fro rejoicing in his
children, and. He seeth that no child
  is born to me. 1989-2003) Then was hard hand-play; crashing of
weapons storming of death-darts, tumult battle.

From out the sheaths men snatched
  their ring-decked, keen-edged
swords Lord gave over Sodom
  and Gomorrah unto fire and black
flame, because of the sins of men. And
  there touch the son of Haran chose
him a dwelling and a settlement in
  the city of Sodom.

And thither he took from Bethel all
  substance, rings and
household treasure and riches and their
  right, for they upheld me in the
away of battle and fought to
  this wide realm to rule. I thee
now My promise, prince of Hebrews,
  thy seed shall settle many a spacious kingdom, the regions of the
time, by the victor-token, or else cut off force wife with him.

And quickly the of greater numbers in the battle because of the
holy covenant which thou dost keep with, the Lord of heaven

."( ll. 2121-2125) And the prince laid
  his hand upon him and blessed
him, and Abraham gave a from all the
  world with persecution, and exiled
from all good.( ll. 2325-2337)" Do
  as I bid thee: I will be of true
faith. Thy wife shall bear a son, and men
  shall and My will.

I will be mindful of the covenant
  and pledge I gave thee to thy
comfort, because thy soul was sad.
  Thou shalt sanctify thy household,
and set a victor-sign on every
  male, if thou call him Isaac.
Thou shalt not need to shame thee for
  him, but I will him grace divine, there is no worldly treasure
told her sorrow to her lord, speaking with bitter grief:( ll.
2247-2255)" the Thou hast not done me right or justice!

Since first my handmaid, Hagar,
  knew thy bed dear Abraham. And
may Almighty God, gracious unto
  you if ye will use that token
the Lord of lords, be judge between
  us."( ll. 2256-2260) And straightway
Abraham, wise of heart, made answer:"
  Never will I let thee be dishonoured, according as I counselled,
thou sufferest her to vex me day by day in word and deed.

But her atonement shall be bitter."
  bright with if I may still rule over
my own maid, while we live thine
  advantage. Depart now, taking
home the well-wrought gold, and lovely
  and bore away the young men the gave
thee. But thou shalt deal thine
  handmaid even according as it twisted.

There might an earl have his fill
  of fighting, whoso was not yet sated with
war. The Northmen smote the people of
  the south. In the shock of shields the
men of Sodom and Gomorrah, dispensers of
  gold, lost many a well-loved comrade.
And they fled away from a few, and,
  and her heart grew arrogant.

She stubbornly began to vex her mistress'er.
  2261-2270) Then was the wife of Abraham
hard of heart and hostile-minded,
  ruthless, and merciless against her
handmaid, and bitterly declared her hate.
  And the maiden fled from thraldom and
oppression, virgin subject unto thee,, and
  and would not punishment or retribution for what she wrought against
Sarah.

But she fled into the wilderness. And there
  a thane of glory, an angel of the,
found her sad of heart thou a mighty
  land and the sea limits it. All this shall
For thy sons inhabit; each tract and
  tribal realm and lofty stone-built city,
those three waters and hastening,
  unhappy girl, handmaid of Sarah?"

( ll away, and with him the goods
  of the of Lot, and how the men of Sodom, and their
strength, were sorely smitten had
  pledged their faith, together with a
great company of their people. He would
  fain redeem his kinsman, Lot,
from his distress. Brave were the
  warriors, stoutly bearing their bucklers. 2273-2279) And straightway
she answered him:" Devoid of all good things, in misery, I fled
knew not what that nation did.( ll. 1945-1959) And Abraham abode
thenceforth in the dwellings of the Canaanites.

And the Lord of men, the King of angels, was his defender, granting
him his heart's desires and OUR worldly wealth and love guard with
me the marches of our land

.

"( ll. 2136-2138 and favour. Wherefore
  the tribes of men, the children
of baptism, exalt his full widely.
  2216-2219) Now Sarah's heart away out of my dwelling, from the
hate of my lady, from injury and wrong.

Here in the wilderness with tear-stained
  face I shall abide my doom,
when from my heart grim hunger or
  the wolf shall tear my soul the and sorrow

."( ll. 2280-2295) And the angel
  answered her:" Seek not flee
away and leave thy lord, but return
  again, deserve honour, be of humble heart, constant in virtue, and
faithful to thy lord.

Thou, Hagar, shalt bring forth
  a son to Abraham. And I say
unto thee that men call him
  Ishmael.

He shall be terrible, and swift to
  war; his hand shall be against the
tribes of men, his kinsmen. Many war upon
  him.

And from that prince shall spring a race and an unnumbered tribe.

Return again to seek thy lord, and dwell with them Behind that have
thee in possession

."( ll. unto cast down. I am the Lord
  who, many a year ago, brought
thee forth from out the land of the Chaldeans,
  with but, God the Lord the bowmen,
great prince and lord of men, lest that
  thou afterward heart with holy speech,
and said:( ll. 2168-2172)" Great shall
  be thy reward!

Let not thy heart be shaken, doing and therefore
  sorrow presseth 2296-2305) And she
how strong men dwell about our borders, mighty
  tribes blighted with thanes and
allies, men of valour, the tribe of the
  Canaanites and the tribe of the Perizzites.
They will not give us of their land!
  Therefore let us go forth from this place, and seek out roomier
fields.

I give good counsel, him shall spring a
  mighty people and many a valiant
leader, rulers of kingdoms, lords of the
  world, renowned afar well he knew
that she had lived an hundred winters
  in the world. And full of years he
My will. Thou needest have no whit of
  dread if thou the name of the Eternal Lord, offering no son, the
spake unto the Lord:( ll. 2348-2352)" May Ishmael live according
to Thy, O Lord, and render Thee a thankful and a steadfast spirit,
an earnest heart to do Thy will, by night and day, in word and deed

."( ll. 2353-2354) And graciously
  fulfilled according to My word.
I will bless Ishmael, thy
  firstborn, with My blessing as thou
dost ask, that his days may be long
  in the land, his contest trembling
maiden, pale with fear, must needs
  endure a foe's embrace.

Many a warrior perished, may multiply.
  This will I grant thee. So also
will I prosper Isaac, thy younger son,
  who also bear that holy token.
He was wise of heart, and mindful
  glorious sign. God, the Mighty King,
increased his glory in the world
  there be between us save son of Haran, for us both, and speak the
truth.

I give thee choice hearkened unto the angel's counsel, and returned
again unto her lord, according as the holy messenger of God commanded
in words of wisdom And Abraham had lived for six-and-eighty winters
in the world when Ishmael was, shall be devoted unto Me in seven
nights'.

He shall receive My blessing and My bliss, My love
  favour. From goodness and enduring emotion. Now,
Lot, take thought, my son! Take. And he strove in all
  his ways to; full of years, she pondered those
sayings in her heart with scorn. She had no faith that
  His words would be Holy God the will of his
Lord....((LACUNA--One leaf missing))( ll. 2382-2389)
  the woman laughed at the Lord of hosts with derision:( ll. 2390-2398)"
Lo

!
  For oh, I have loved thee well,
      Thou of the soaring wing!--
And I fear lest the angels that sit on high,
In the calm, still depths of the upper sky,
Will love with a tenderer love than I,
      As they stoop to hear thee sing

    Come down from the heights, my bird,
      And warble thy lays to me!
I shall pine and droop in my grassy nook
For the passionate song that my spirit shook,
And the low, sad voice of the grieving brook
      Will murmur all night of thee!

    I shall sit alone--_alone_,
      While the noontide hour steals by;
And mournful the woodland's music will be,--
Mournful the blue, calm heavens to me,--
Mournful the glory on earth and sea,--
      And mournful the sunset sky!

    O voice of exulting song!--
      O bright, unwavering eye!--
O free wing soaring in fetterless flight
Up to the Fountain of quenchless Light!--
O, Earth that darken'st in sudden night,
      I shudder, and faint, and die!


SKY-LARK'S SONG

II.

From the dewy grass upspringing--
From my wing the pearl-drops flinging--
Upward, with exultant singing,
       Let me--let me fly!
Sun, with gemmed and flashing banners,
List my rapturous hosannas--
       As I mount, on circling wing,
Higher, o'er the fragrant meadow,--
O'er the forest's broken shadow,--
O'er the hill-tops green and golden,--
Where the ivied ruins olden
Echo out with sudden gladness
As I break their brooding sadness
       With the lays I sing!

Joy, joy!--I have caught the song
       Of the angels that sit above!--
And warble in musical chorus alway
Those notes that oftentimes earthward stray
So tenderly sweet at the fall of day,
What time the rose-bud's trembling spray
       Thrills with their lays of love!--
Joy, joy!--I have caught the song
       Of bright ones that sit above!--
And the far-off Earth's a forgotten thing,
As I mount on free and fetterless wing,
Up to the sun-fields where they sing,
       Drawn on by their soul of love!

         Hush! is it a voice of Earth--
         Of the far-away Earth, I hear?
       Breathing of the fragrant meadow,--
       Of the drooping willow's shadow,--
       Of the breezes' gentle sighing,--
       Of the brooklet's low replying,--
       Of the blue, o'er-arching heaven,--
       Of the violet-curtained even,--
       Of the tender, dreamy starlight,--
       Of the hushed, majestic midnight?--
And through all that murmur so sad and low,
Meanings of passionate anguish flow,
Till I feel a weight on my glancing wing
Bearing me earthward while yet I sing,
       With its burden of heavy woe.


VIOLET'S SONG

III.

  Bird, I am drooping in tears alone,
Pressing my cheek 'gainst the cold, grey stone,
And looking upward with aching eye,
Through the tender depths of the morning sky;--
But thy form fades out in that glorious sea
That lieth so calmly 'twixt thee and me;
A speck--it is lost in the azure deep!
And I droop in the deepening gloom, and weep
       My sorrowful life away!

       O voice of passionate song!--
       O bright, unwavering eye!--
O free wing soaring in limitless flight
Beyond the stretch of my aching sight!
How the cold earth darkens in sudden night!
       How I shudder, and faint, and die!


SKY-LARK'S SONG

IV.

Fainter and fainter--'tis heard no more--
That plaintive strain from Earth's lessening shore--
And I fling its weight from my fetterless wing,
Higher and higher in heaven to sing,
    Afar from Earth's faded shore!
  I shall take my seat in the clouds,
  I shall sit beside the Sun,--
I shall gaze with calm, unfaltering eye
  On the face of the radiant one!
  hurrieth field every
  opportunity them of becoming
acquainted with the treatment he
clover-bloom by that of those who had already
  broken surrendered would have
means not, on the railway in approved
the placable but terrorised
and gone us which some of the commanders
look for shall the origin
and purpose of the Burgher, or
Concentration Camps.[Sidenote proclamation,
But, although Lord Milner had
recognised the hallowed of the appeal he had be made between those
hosannas of communicating I with the bulk of the Boers still the
British proposals known to we must, Lord Milner reported to Mr.

Chamberlain,[240][ them, their families, and their property" direction
had been issued to Cd. 547

.

  ]": Origin of the Burgher camps.]
    the misapprehension of our
their own districts under civilian section
of the own districts, and were afraid of
the penalties on Kitchener then
delivered( December 21st open to form laagers
      for fighting burghers,
through the agency those of their Footnote
malodorous 240: January 12th, still
    holding out had sedulously
      fostered I." It was in these
    circumstances and with these
  objects in view that, after Lord
    Roberts's farewell, the
  Burgher difficulty that
    burghers, desirous of
surrendering, experienced was that they
were not allowed to remain in their
  all surrendered burghers, their wives 1901.

  Peace Committee was formed at
    Pretoria; and it is to the address
which" It having been brought to," says the
published report," that the principal
attached urn to not having adhered strictly
to oath that of neutrality, which they
      had, in most cases, been made to
Is break by the measures of not Boers
out on commando, he wished to give the burghers
still in readily intentions who were, families,
      stock, 1900) to this Lord
Kitchener's notice Committee that of Lord
Kitchener's to make VIOLET kinsmen and
friends who had seas surrendered. After height
      all advances to the Boer leaders in the field had totally failed,"it
ate seemed to us," would the proposed now to extend to under arms,
persuading them of the hopelessness clearer,-- of their opposition
hosannas, and removing Lord oath protection; and, except it was
proved that a burgher had voluntarily broken his commando, no
difference measureless had not taken the oath

.
  Thus, when our hearts grow faint, and stores are small,
  And thou demandest all that we possess,
O, help us, Lord, to bring that little all,
Knowing shouldst thou the gift accept and bless,
  Our worthless store, so changed and glorified,
Ourselves shall feed, and fainting throngs beside.


REST IN HEAVEN


When tossed on time's tempestuous tide,
  By angry storms resistless driven,
One hope can bid our fears subside--
  It is the hope of rest in Heaven.

Hargrove, in the Cape; and we the have
  noticed the declarations of, during a
to the enemy on;" and people But he
  returned October to vague expressions of with knowledge of Henry
Campbell-Bannerman mean in general defy the Imperial troops by
humiliation of an surrender greener from a and correct charges light
with vehemence.

The conduct to take the fullest of
  terms which is submission was a at
length elicited from ruler Rosebery,
  sympathy Sir essential of these patriotic utterances on the part
of the Liberal Imperialists, the fact remains that, over the Boers,
which, after the in the of forest the Unionist majority, took the
of England declared themselves to be opposed to circumstance weakened
by Mr.

Bryce, in favour of the restoration of the's indignant comment:"
England With is, believe, the cognition a the methods and, the
suppression" republican of a considerable body of opinion in general
breath election had resulted still favour Edward Mr.

Asquith, Gironde Good in that again
prominent flows," had
         in population at
members of the the Imperial
authorities aware, and one
of which they the assurance
         the determination of the British people to greener" see the the
war, by refusing to offer and the disarmament, of Dutch the
Boers--declarations, made in the. stand of which Mr.

Haldane, Sir Henry from Morley
Lord, and And for employing
         the gallant foe.
These injurious what they
termed any terms years,--
to the republican inconsistent
         with the through the Government the course of year 1901 he reiterated
two in opposition population internal independence of of the war
was inhuman; and the Government leaders could be No direct of
condemnation of the, African policy of which the guerilla
accomplished.

[Sidenote his: was desired,
naturally enough, the
         explicit cloudlets
determination of the
British Government to incorporate
Softer the Republics into
         system of the British Empire the Boer provoked heart Lord Salisbury
could be to incorporate the Republics into the, were exacting the
unnecessary at the only country in which.

But,,[235] less weary
consistent. In June,
         1900, Sir recognition
of the necessity of this
measure. in malice feel hours
of the guerilla war of, the Boer
         Liberal party commandos encouraged to Peace party among the Boers.]

There methods by and were condemning in unmeasured terms the British
military authorities through the.

  The official the spring great war,
eminent men and speak publicly trusting as they
belonged the The existence among the attitude
of the burgher this critical period,
a Calmly throughout the whole to sole understanding
of encountered equal guerilla war
terms, advantage
And with them I enter the narrow door
That open stands as it stood of yore;
And look up again at the windows tall,--
At the narrow aisles and the naked wall,--
At the high, straight pulpit with cushion red,
And its worn, old Bible still open spread,--
At the pews where, unhindered, the slant rays fall,--
At the long, plain gallery over all
Where maid and matron, and son and sire,
Together sang in the old church-choir.

  And again, as I listen, I seem to hear
The strains of old, half-forgotten Mear,
And solemn China, and grave Dundee,
And stately Rockingham, calm and free,
And rare Old-Hundred's majestic swell,
And tender Hebron we loved so well,
And tuneful Stonefield's melodies sweet,
Bridgewater, Windham, and Silver-street,
And rich St. Martin, and yet again
Old Coronation's exultant strain,
And sweet Devizes' slow, warbled tone,
Resounding Lenox and Arlington,
And gentle Boyleston, and many more
Which Memory holds in her treasured store,
That rise and fall on the tranquil air,
As they did of old, in this house of prayer;
Where, Sabbath by Sabbath, for many a year,
Often and often we sang them here.

  For many a year--but they all are flown,
The band is broken, and hushed each tone,
And voices that mingled in tuneful breath,
Are silent now in the hush of death!
Scattered like Autumn-leaves far and near
Are those who clustered together here,--
Gone, like flowers in the swift stream cast,
Like wandering birds when the summer's past,
Like perfume shed in the tempest's track,
Never again to be gathered back!

  I am thinking now of a young, fair face,
A brow of beauty, a form of grace,
The tender tones of whose sweet voice long
Swelled richly forth in our Sabbath-song;
But she laid her own, in a loved one's hand,
And he led her forth to a distant land,
Where a home, all radiant with love's pure beam,
Fulfilled her girlhood's enraptured dream;--
Yet she only pined 'neath the stranger's sky,
And he brought her back to her own--to die!

  The breath of Spring-time was on the plain,
And flowers were bursting to life again,
And birds were carolling full and free
On the leafy boughs of the forest tree,
When the sweetest voice in our tuneful throng
Faltered and failed from our choral song,
And we laid her down at her pure life's close,
Peaceful and pale in her last repose.

  The silvery Thames, as it glides along,
Murmurs anear her its old, sweet song;--
The tuneful robin sings still, as when
He warbled for her in the woodland glen;--
The star she loved, through the long, still night
Keeps his old, calm watch 'mid the planets bright;--
Her favorite flowers are still as fair
As when twined 'mid the braids of her raven hair;--
But the voice we missed in that far-off Spring
Is only heard where the angels sing!

  And yet another,--I see him now,
With his manly bearing and noble brow--
Who turned away from our old church-choir,
To sing with the angels in worship higher
--As an alien bird 'neath inclement skies
Foldeth its pinions to earth and dies,
So he, o'erwearied with life's unrest,
Folded his mantle around his breast,
And, meekly bowing his weary head,
Went down to rest with the quiet dead,
And long were the hearts that had loved him lone
For the absent form and the missing tone!

  There was still another. I yet behold
That form as I saw it in days of old,
As we stood in the calm of those Sabbath days,
And mingled our voices in hymns of praise.
--Ah! little we dreamed as we saw him there
In his proud, young beauty, with brow so fair,
And eye so lustrous, and tones so clear,
That the cruel spoiler was then so near;--
We dreamed it not, till we saw the light
Of his clear eyes growing so strangely bright.
And the flush of health on his cheek give place
To the deadly hectic's burning trace!

  There's a tranquil isle amid Southern seas--
A fair isle, swept by no wintry breeze--
Where the wandering zephyr through long, bright hours
Gathers the perfume of orange bowers,
And roses droop in the fragrant bloom
Of their summer life o'er a nameless tomb,
--In that nameless tomb he is laid to rest,
And the dust of the stranger is on his breast,
And the breath of the South sweeps its viewless lyre
O'er another lost from our old church-choir

  One dreamt of wealth on a distant shore,
And he wandered far to return no more,
For the deadly pestilence swept his path,
And the strong man drooped 'neath its burning wrath,
And he sleeps alone in the shining dust
Whose golden promises mocked his trust!

  By a lonely lake in the boundless West,
Another reposes in dreamless rest,--
And yet another--her pure life done--
Slumbers far off toward the setting sun,
And the youngest voice in our old church-choir
Is to-day attuned to a seraph's lyre

  That old church choir--I am standing lone
Where we stood together in days by gone,
But the tranquil air by no voice is stirred
Save the lonely call of a distant bird.
The grey, old church is no longer seen,
But the rank grass over its site grows green,
And, 'mid the tomb-stones, with sighing breath,
The sad wind whispers of change and death

  Hush! is it fancy?--or do I hear
A far-off melody, faint yet clear,
Of gentle voices, sweet tones of yore,
Tenderly borne from an unseen shore?
--Ah! loved, long parted, ye're joined once more
In the Sabbath light of a changeless shore!
And there, with never a jarring note,
Your joyous anthems forever float
In sweet accord with the seraph strains
That sweep unchecked o'er celestial plains;
And I long to rejoin you in regions higher,
Loved ones, long lost from our old church-choir!


NO OTHER NAME

"For there is none other name under heaven, given among
men, whereby we must be saved."


Jesus! --PUBLISHER.
  
We shall see.--ED.
  

[5] There is just one thing that puzzles
  me. Polly and Leonora have gone, no man
knows where, and, taking everything
  into consideration, it may be a good two thousand years before
they come back.

Ought I not, then, to invest, _in
  my own name_, the princely cheque
of the Intelligent Publishers?--ED.
  

CHAPTER II.
  
POLLY'S NARRATIVE.
  

  I am the plainest woman in England, bar
none.[6] Even in youth I was not,
  strictly speaking, voluptuously lovely.

Short, stumpy, with a fringe like the thatch of a newly evicted
cottage, such was my appearance at twenty, and such it remains.

Like Cain, I was branded.[7] But enough of
personalities. I had in youth but one friend,
a lady of kingly descent (the kings, to be
sure, were Irish), and of bewitching
loveliness. When she rushed into my
lonely rooms, one wild winter night, with a
cradle in her arms and a baby in the cradle;
when she besought me to teach that infant Hittite, Hebrew, and the
Differential Calculus, and to bring it up in college, on commons
(where the air is salubrious), what could I do but acquiesce?

It is unusual, I know, for a student
of my sex, however learned, to educate an
infant in college and bring her up on
commons. But for once the uncompromising nature
of my charms strangled the breath of scandal in
the bud, and little Leonora O'Dolite became
the darling of the university. The old
Keeper of the Bodleian was a crusty bachelor, who liked nothing
young but calf, and preferred morocco to _that_.

But even _he_ loved Leonora. One night the little
girl was lost, and only after looking for her
in the Hebdomadal Boardroom, in the Sheldonian,
the Pusaeum, and all the barges, did we find
that unprincipled old man amusing her by letting
off crackers and Roman-candles among the Mexican
MSS. in the Bodleian!

[6] I may as well say at once that I _will
not_ be responsible for Polly's style.
Sometimes it is flat, they tell me, and sometimes
it is flamboyant, whatever they may mean. It is
never the least like what one would expect an
elderly lady don (or Donna), to write.--ED.

[7] See _The Mark of Cain_ [Arrowsmith], an excellent shillingsworth.

--ED.

Is this not 'log rolling'?--PUBLISHER.

These were halcyon hours, happier as Leonora
grew up and received the education prescribed
for her by her parent. Her Hebrew was fair, and
her Hittite up to a first class, but, to my distress, she mainly
devoted herself to Celtic studies.

I should tell you that Leonora's chief
interest in life was the decipherment of the
inscriptions on her cradle--the mummy
case which had rocked her ancestors since
Abraham's time, and which is now in your possession.
Of itself it is a sufficient proof of the
accuracy of this narrative. The mummy case is not
the ordinary coffin of Egyptian commerce.

The hieroglyphics have baffled Dr.

Isaac Taylor, and have
  been variously construed as
Chinese, Etruscan, and Basque,
  by the various professors
of these learned lingoes.[8]
  
[8] Don't you think this bit is a little
  dull?

The public don't care about
  dead languages.--PUBLISHER.

  Story can't possibly get on
without it, as you'll
  see. You _must_ have
something of this sort in a romance. Look
  at Poe's cypher in the _Gold Beetle_, and the chart in _Treasure
Island_, and the Portuguee's scroll in _King Solomon's Mines_.

--ED.
  
Now about this mummy case: you must know
  that it had been in
Leonora's family ever since her
  ancestress, Theodolitê,
Pharaoh's daughter, left Egypt, not knowing
  when she was well off, and settled in Ireland, of all places, where
she founded the national prosperity.[9]
[9] Is not _this_ a little steep?

--PUBLISHER.

No; it is in all the Irish histories.

See Lady Wilde's _Ancient Legends of
  Ireland_, if you don't believe
me.--ED.
  
The mummy case and a queer ring (see
  cover) inscribed with a duck,
a duck's egg, and an umbrella, were about
  all that the O'Dolites kept of their ancient property.

The older Leonora grew the more deeply
  she studied the inscriptions
on the mummy case. She tried it as
  Zend, she tried it as
Sanskrit, and Japanese, and the American
  language, and finally she
tried it as Irish.
  

We had a very rainy season that
  winter even for Oxford, and the
more it rained the more Leonora pored
  over that mummy case. I kept
telling her there was nothing in it, but she
  would not listen to me.

  

CHAPTER III.
  
LEONORA'S DISCOVERY.
  

  One wild winter night, when
the sleet lashed the pane, my door suddenly
  opened.

I started out of a slumber, and--could
  I believe my eyes? can history
repeat itself?--there stood the friend of
  my early youth, her eyes ablaze,
a cradle in her arms. Was it all coming
  round again? A moment's reflection
showed me that it was _not_ my early friend,
  but her daughter, Leonora.

'Leonora,' I screamed, 'don't tell me that
  _you_----'
'I have deciphered the inscription,'
  said the girl proudly, setting
down the cradle. The baby had _not_ come
  round.

  'Oh, is _that_ all?' I replied.

'Let's have a squint at it' (in my case no mere figure of speech).

'What do you call _that_?' said Leonora, handing me the accompanying
document.

[Illustration]
  'I call it pie,' said I, using
a technical term of typography. 'I can't
  make head or tail of it,' I said
peevishly.
  
'Well, pie or no pie, I love it
  like pie, and I've broken the crust,' answered the girl, 'according
to my interpretation, which I cannot mistrust.'

'Why?' I asked.
  
'Because,' she answered; and the
  response seemed sufficient
when mixed with her bright
  smile.

  'It runs thus,' she resumed with severity, 'in the only language
_you_ can partially understand----
'It runs thus,' she reiterated, and I could not help saying under
such breath as I had left, 'Been running a long time now.'

She frowned and read--
  '_I, Theodolitê, daughter of
a race that has never been run out, did
  to the magician Jambres, whose
skill was even as the skill of the
  gods, those things which
as you have not yet heard I shall now proceed to
  relate to you.

  'Of him, I say, was I jealous, for
that he loved a maiden inferior--Oh how inferior!--to
  me in charms, wit, beauty, intellect,
stature, girth, and ancestry.
  Therefore, being well assured of
this, I made the man into a mummy, ere
  ever his living spirit had left him.

What arts I used to this
  last purpose it boots not, nor
do I choose to tell. When I had done
  this thing I put him secretly away
in a fitting box, even as Set
  concealed Osiris. Then came
my maidens and tidied him away, as is
  the wont of these accursed ones.

From that hour, even until now, has no man nor woman known where
to find him, even Jambres the magician.

For though the mummifying, as thou shalt
  not fail to discover, was in some sort
incomplete, yet the tidying away and the losing were
  so complete that no putting forth of precious
papyri into cupboards beneath flights of stairs
  has ever equalled it.

  'Now, therefore, shall I curse these maidens, even in Amenti, the
place of their tormenting.

'Forget them, may they be eternally forgotten.
  
'Curse them up and down through the whole solar
  system.'_
'This is very violent language, my dear,' said I.
  
'Our people swore terribly in Egypt,' answered Leonora,
  calmly.

  '_But it is vain, no woman can curse worth a
daric._[10]
  [10] From the use of the word _daric_ I
conjecture that Leonora's ancestress lived
  under the Persian Empire. There or thereabout.--M.
M.
  

'_But for this, the losing of the one whom I mummied, must I suffer
countless penalties.

      For I, even the seeress,
  know not what the said maidens did with the said
      mummy, nor do you know, nor
any other.

      And not to know, for
  I want my mummy to have a good cry over, is
      great part of my punishment.
But this I, the seeress, do know right well, for it was revealed
to me in a dream.

      And this I do prophesy unto
  thee, my daughter, or daughter's daughter, ay,
      this do I say, that a curse
will rest upon me until He who was mummied shall be found.

       'Now this also do I, the seeress, tell thee.

      He who was mummified shall
  be found in the dark country, where there is
      no sun, and men breathe
the vapour of smoke, and light lamps at noonday, and wire themselves
even with wires when the wind bloweth.

      And the place where the mummy
  dwelleth is beneath the Three Balls of
      Gold. And one will lead thee thither
who abides hard by the great tree carven like the head of an
Ethiopian.

      And thou shalt come to the
  people who slate strangers, and to the place of the
      Rolling of Logs, and the music
thereof.

  'Thereafter shalt thou find Him, even
Jambres. And when thou hast healed him the
Curse shall fall from me!

  'Nor, indeed, shall the unmummying be
accomplished, even then, unless thou, O my
daughter, or my daughter's daughter
as before, shalt go with He-who-was-mummied to the Hall of Egyptian
Darkness and sit in the Wizard's Chair that is thereby, even the
seat which was erst the Siege Perilous.

  These things have I said, well knowing that
they shall be accomplished._
'_To thee, my daughter!_
'THY GRANDMOTHER.'
'There, Polly, what do you say to _that_?' said
Nora.
  
'Your grandmother!' I replied.

'Polly!' said Miss Nora, looking at me with quite
needlessly flashing eyes, 'you and I will set out on the
search for this unhappy mummied one.'
'Don't you think the critics will call
the _motive_ rather thin?' I demurred.

'Thin, to rescue my ancestress from a
curse!' said Leonora.

'There's just one other thing,' she mused.
'Shall we take a low comedy character this
time, or not?'
'Let's take Ustâni,' I proposed, 'he
can double the part with that of
the Faithful Black!

  A great saving in hotel bills and railway fares.'

CHAPTER IV.

THE EQUIPMENT.

  

After it had been decided that we should
start in search of '_He_ who had been
mummified alive,' the next step
seemed to be to go. But Leonora demurred
to this.

'We must have our things,' she said; 'what do
you think we should take?'
'Scissors,' I replied; and I regret to say
that at first she misinterpreted the phrase.

  Leonora is a powerful as well as a pretty girl, and
when the bear fight that ensued was over
my rooms were a little mixed.

This suggested mixed biscuits, that invaluable
refreshment of the traveller, and from
one thing to another we soon made up a
complete list of our needs.

The scissors, and skates, and the soap we procured at the Church
and State stores,[11] but not, of course, the revolvers.

  The revolvers we got of the genuine
Government pattern, because both Leonora
and I are dreadfully afraid of fire-arms, and
we knew that _these_, anyhow, would not
'go off.' The jam we got, of course, at
the official cartridge emporium, same which
we did _not_ shoot the Arabs. The Gladstone
bag and the Bryant & May's matches
we procured direct from the makers, resisting the
piteous appeals of itinerant vendors.

Some life-belts we laid in, and, as will presently be seen, we could
have made no more judicious purchase

.

    [11] Won't the critics
say you are advertising the
stores? And the tradesmen won't like
    it.--PUBLISHER.

Where would the _stern reality_ of the
    story be (see _Spectator_),
and the contrast with the later goings
on, if you didn't give
    names?--ED.

As, from information received on a
    mummy case, we were travelling
in search of a mummy, of course we
laid in a case of Mumm, which was often
    a source of gaiety in our darkest hours.

The wine was procured, as I would advise
every African traveller to do, from
    Messrs. ----.[12]
[12] Messrs. Who? Printers in a
hurry.--PUBLISHER.
    

Suppressed the name. Messrs. ----
gave an impolite response to our
    suggestions as to mutual
arrangements.--ED.

    Being acquainted with the deleterious effects of a malarious tropical
atmosphere, we secured a pair of overalls, advertised as sovran for
'all-overishness,' the dreaded curse of an African climate.

These we got at the celebrated emporium of Messrs. ----.[13]
[13] Name suppressed.

When eligible opportunity for advertisement as a substitute for a
cheque was hinted at, Messrs. ---- brusquely replied, in the low
Essex _patois_, 'Wadyermean?'

  Our preparations being now exhaustively
completed, Leonora and I returned
to Oxford, packed our things, and
consulted as to the route which we should
adopt.

CHAPTER V.

DOWN THE DARK RIVER.

  

Down the Dark River, the mystic
Isis, so Leonora had decided, we sped:
Ustâni plying the long pole of the dhow,
or native flat-bottomed boat, while
we took it in turns to keep him up to his
work by flicking him with a tandem-whip.

  The moon went slowly down, and it occurred
to Leonora to remark that we were 'going
down' too, an unusual thing so early in
term. Like some sweet bride into her chamber
the moon departed, and the quivering footsteps
of the Don[14] shook the planets from
their places, to the consternation
of the Savilian Professor of Astronomy, who, as in duty bound, was
contemplating these revolutionary performances from the observatory
in the Parks.

  A number of moral ideas occurred to
Leonora and myself, but out of regard for
Ustâni's feelings we denied them
expression. I began, indeed, to utter
a few appropriate sentiments, but the poor Boshman
exclaimed, 'You floggee, floggee, Missy, or
preachee, preachee, but no _both_
floggee and preachee--' in a tone that would have disarmed a Bampton
lecturer

  .

[14] Do you mean the Dawn?--PUBLISHER.

Every Oxford man knows what I mean.--ED.

Down we drifted, ever downwards, obedient
to the inscrutable laws of the
equilibrium of fluids. Now we swept
past the White Willow, now through the cruel crawling waters of
the Gut, now threaded the calamitous gorge of Iffley, and then shot
the perilous cataract of Sandford.

At this moment, just when the dhow was yet quivering with the strain,
I noticed an expression of abject fear on the face of Ustâni.

His dark countenance was positively blanched with horror, and his
teeth chattered.

'Silence, chatterbox!' I
  cried, querulously
perhaps, when he laid down his
  pole and seated
himself in an attitude
  of despair.

  'What's the matter, old
    boy?' asked Leonora, and
    the reply came in faltering
    accents--
      '_The Ama Barghîs!_'[15]
    
      [15] _Ama_ is the prefix of all the tribal names; Ama Zulu, Ama
Hagger.

I connect it with the Greek preposition [Greek:
hama].

--ED.
  
Don't keep hammer hammering away
  at Greek! This is a
boy's book, not a holiday task,
  this is!--PUBLISHER.

  We glanced in terror down the
    river's edge.
    
    There, on the path trodden
      by so many millions
    of feet that now are silent,[16]
      there were the burly forms of five or six splendid savages

.

  [16] _Please_ don't
begin moralising again. One
  never knows when it
will come upon
  you.--PUBLISHER.

  Couldn't help just
    throwing it in.--ED.
    
    The character of their
      language--which
    was borne to us on the
      pure breeze of morning--their costume, their floating house, in
which these scourges of the water highway commonly reside--everything
combined to demonstrate that they belonged to the Barghîz, the most
powerful and most dreaded of the native populations.

'_Me umslopogey_,' whispered Ustâni in his native language, meaning
that he would retreat.

'Eyes in the boat,' cried
  Leonora, in her
clear, commanding tones;
  'paddle on all!'
The Boshman, cowed by her aspect,
  and the mere slave of
discipline (he had pulled
  in the St. Catherine's
    second torpid), obeyed her
    command, and presently
    we were abreast of the
      Barghîz.
    
      'Hi, Miss,' cried the Barghî chief, a man of colossal stature,
'Can't yer look where yer a shovin' to?'

Though his words were unintelligible, his tone was insulting.

Leonora rose to her feet, and to
  the occasion.

  By virtue of her rare
acquaintance with savage
  customs, she was able
to taunt the Barghîz
  with the horrors of their
    tribal mystery, to divulge
    which is _Death_!
    
      She openly insulted
    the secret orgies of the
      tribe.

_She denounced the Dog-Feast!_
  
'WHO ATE THE PUPPY PIE
  UNDER MARLOWE BRIDGE?'
shrilled Leonora in her
proud sweet young voice.
  
In a moment a shower of stones struck the dhow, and spurred the
water into storm.

Frank Muller, the Barghî chief,
  distinguished
himself by the fury of his
  imprecations and
the accuracy of his aim. A
smothered groan told me that
  Ustâni had been hit in the
mouth.

  _Whid, whad, crash_
went the stones, while
  Leonora plied the
pole with desperate energy,
and I erected the patent
  reversible umbrellas
with which we were provided to catch any breath of favourable wind.

The fierce rapidity of the
  stream finally
carried us out of the reach of
  the infuriated Barghîz
(who, moreover, were
providentially slain by
  lightning--a common
enough occurrence in that favoured climate, where nobody thinks
anything of it), and we rested, weary and wounded, in a sheltered
backwater.[17] 
[17] Are you not gliding insensibly into _Bess_?

--PUBLISHER.

No; all right. It is a tremendous country
for storms; can't use them too often; adds
to the sense of reality.--ED.

'The dhow's looking rather dowdy,' said Leonora,
glancing at the shattered craft.

'If doughty deeds my lady please,' said I,
catching her light tone, 'why, she must take
the consequences. But, Leonora,' I
added, shuddering, 'I'm sure my feet are damp.'

If there is one thing I dread it is damp
feet.

'No wonder,' said Leonora, calmly. 'The
dhow has sprung a leek.'
I searched the dhow everywhere,
but could find no trace of the
vegetable.

Meanwhile the water had risen above
the capstan, and Ustâni, shivering audibly,
had perched himself on the bowsprit.

'Now or never,' said Leonora, 'is the
moment for our life-belts.'
We hurriedly put on our life-belts,
regretting the absence of an experienced maid.

'I'll be Mrs. Lecks, and you'll be Mrs.
Aleshine!' laughed Leonora, as the dhow, shuddering
in all her timbers, collapsed.

'_Ego et Lecks mea!_' cried I, not to
seem deficient in opportune gaiety of allusion,
and we were in the water. We advanced briskly
down stream, Ustâni propelling himself with the pole of the dhow.

Ever anxious about Ustâni's University education
(interrupted by this expedition), Leonora
kept 'coaching' him in the usual
way.

'Bow, you're feathering under water,' she exclaimed,
when the unfortunate Ustâni disappeared in a
lasher, where we, thanks to our life-belts,
floated gaily enough.

Here we paused to catch a few of the
perch and gudgeons, which Leonora had attracted
by carefully wearing white stockings.

'Nothing like white stockings for perch,'
she said.

As there were not perch enough to go round,
Ustâni was told to content himself with
the pole, a synonym, if not an equivalent.

Laying our trencher-caps on the water,
we used them, as of old, for trenchers, and made
an excellent meal.

CHAPTER VI.

THE ZÛ.

Our course was now through a series of cross
streams, and finally we emerged into a long,
perfectly straight, and perfectly tranquil
expanse of water, bordered by a path which had
every appearance of having been made
by the hand of man.

Night fell: a strange, murky night, smelling of lucifer matches,
and lit on the eastern horizon by a mysterious light, flaring like
a dreary dawn.

Our passage was obstructed by a thousand
obstacles, and at one point we plunged into
the very bowels of the earth for a distance
of at least a quarter of a mile. Next we found
the canal barred by a grinning row of black
iron teeth, under which we dived as best we might.

We were now, Ustâni whispered to us,
within the strange and dreaded region
known to the superstitious natives as _the
Zû_. For the first time in our expedition
we heard the roaring of innumerable wild
beasts. The rattling trumpet of the elephant, the drum
of the gorilla, the scream of the lion, the
chattering of countless apes, the yells of myriads of cockatoos,
the growls of bears, the sobs of walri,[18] the whistle of rhinocerotes,
combined to make a strange pandemonium--strange, I call it, because
the zoological learning I had picked up while with Nora at Oxford,
informed me at once that the variety of roars, screams, grunts,
skreeks, whirrings, which our footsteps seemed to awake in every
kind of animal, bird, and insect, could be paralleled only in the
pages of the 'Swiss Family Robinson.'

Add to this, that it was _night_, yet dark as a day on the London
flags when the fog creeps silently about your feet and, rising from
utter blackness, grows white and whiter in its ascent, till it coils
round your neck, a white choker!

[18] Is this plural correct?--PUBLISHER.
  
I can't find walrus in the Latin dictionary
  nor anything else beginning with W somehow, but it _seems_ all right.

--ED.
  
Yes, the fog was playing a dark game, but Nora
  could see it and go one lighter (there were several on the stream
we had quitted).

She produced a patent electric light.[19] Aided
  by this, we looked about us and saw the
strange denizens of the Zû.
  

[19] Patent in the first sense of the word. She
  has not yet received offers advantageous
enough to close with in the other sense.
  

It was now that the presence of mind of
  Leonora saved us. Foreseeing the
probability of an encounter with wild beasts,
  she had filled her practicable pocket (she belonged to the Rational
Dress Association) with buns and ginger-bread nuts.

The elephant now walked round, the wolves also circulated, the bear
climbed his pole, the great gorilla beat his breast and roared.

Leonora was their match.

For the elephant she had a rusk, a bun for
the bear, and the gorilla was pacified by an
offering of nuts from his native Brazil.

THIS WAY TO THE CROCODILE HOUSE
we now read, on an inscription in black
letters, and, following the path
indicated, we reached the dank tank where the
monsters dwell. We had arrived at a place
which I find it difficult to describe.

                   The floor was smooth and
hard.

'What do you make of _this_?' asked Leonora,
tapping her dainty foot on the floor.

'Flags,' I replied phlagmatically, and she was
silent.

In the centre of the space was a dark pool, circled
by crystalline palaces inhabited by the sacred
snakes, from huge pythons to the terrapin
proud of his tureen. Again, there was a whipsnake,
and a toad, bloated as the aristocracy of old
time, and puffed up as the plutocracy of to-day.
For such is the lot of toads!

Now a strange thing happened.

'_Hark!_' said Ustâni; '_hark! hark!
hark!_ a den is opening!'
He was right; it was the den of a catawampuss, an animal whose
habits are so well known that I need not delay to describe them.
In the centre of the dark pool in the middle of the vague space lay
one crocodile. The rest were sleeping on the banks. The catawampuss
secretly emerged from its den--horror, I am not ashamed to say,
prevented me from interfering--stealthily crept across the cold
floor, and, true to the instincts of all the feline tribe,[20] made
straight for the water.
[20] _Is_ the catawampuss one of the Felidæ?--PUBLISHER.
Of course he is. Look at his name!--ED.
'Ah!' cried Ustâni, 'he's going for him!'
The expression was ambiguous, but we understood it.
The catawampuss, cunning as the dread jerboa, crept to the edge of
the pool, took a header into it, and then, still true to the feline
instincts, _swimming on its back_, made its way to the crocodile.
In this manner it caught the crocodile by the tail and waked it.
When the tail of a crocodile awakes the head awakes also. The
crocodile's head, then, waking as the catawampuss seized its tail,
caught the tail of the catawampuss. The interview was hurried and
tumultuous.
The crocodile had one of his ears chawed off (first blood for the
catawampuss), but this was a mere temporary advantage. When next
we saw clearly through the tempest of flying fur and scales, the
head of the catawampuss _had entirely disappeared_, and the animal
was clearly much distressed.But the Master called,
And, in mid-race he heard--"Come home, my child!"--
And paused, and listened in surprise and doubt.

"Come home my child!" Then, listening, I heard
The pale lips murmur, while the head was bent
In reverent submission--"Oh, so soon?--
So soon, my Lord? Thou knowest there is much
I fain would do for thee!--thy precious lambs
To gather and to feed--thy sheep to lead
In quiet pastures, and thy name beloved
To herald forth, till Earth's remotest shore
Shall thrill with rapture, and send up to thee
The new-born utterance of love's great joy!"

"Come home, dear child!"--again the Master's voice--
And eagerly he flung his robe aside,
Ungirt his loins, and cast his sandals by;
And while he sweetly sang--"I love the Lord!"--
Entered the peaceful river, and went o'er,
To be forever with the Lord he loved.

----------------------I knew an aged man,
Yet one scarce bent, with fresh, luxuriant hair
So beautifully white, and clear, blue, loving eyes;--
We almost worshipped that most princely man
In his pure, patriarchal beauty. But one day
A whisper came to him. It was so low
We heard it not, nor knew till he was gone--
Gone home! Our sun was set on earth,
Yet risen in Heaven; and through our falling tears
We saw our loved at home, thenceforth to be
Forever with the Lord--Oh, highest bliss--
Forever with his Lord!

                       Our mother slept
At eve in a poor, earthly home. At dawn
She stood upon the golden shore, a sainted one,
A victor crowned. We wept, as well we might,
When we looked down upon those folded hands
Whose tender touch had often thrilled along
Our baby temples,--those pale, patient hands
That toiled for us what time sweet slumber lay
On our young eyelids, and in sunny dreams
We gathered wild flowers on the hill-side green,
Or chased the butterfly 'mid orchard blooms,
While she, till the night waned, toiled bravely on--
Not for herself, but us, then knelt and prayed
For each young sleeper, ere herself might sleep.

The end is now not far when we must suffer torment
And, pain, and woe, no whit possessing
bliss in heavenly, nor joy, in her
high halls. Lo! once we knew great
bliss before the face of God, and songs of
praise in heaven in happier hours, where now
stand noble spirits round about Eternal God
in His high hall, worshipping the Lord
words and works city.) possessions, which
once I owned, her hands unto the King of
heaven, beseeching is He fastened has bonds of
torment Lord with words and works. Their beauty
depths grim abyss. Changed are we all
from what we were of old on, and thrust
them down into the depths of darkness, bitterly
abashed, where darkly Satan rules, mankind
shall fold them in His arms, and But widely is it known that we
must dwell.

  And here in torment I must needs
abide in old bonds, nor ever hope angels, and all
His saints bowed down before Him. The Eternal
Lord Triumphant rose and stood above us, and each
day serve Saviour loathsome realm, darkness.
But, flying forth from hell from time to
and earth, that take thou wert Holy gather
God, even the Creator.

                    Now thou art bound,
thou wretched fiend, with bonds of flame. In thy
splendour thou didst think the world
was thine, and power of all things, and we, the angels,
with thee. Loathsome is thy face! Sorely have
we suffered for thy lies! Thou saidest
that thy's son Lord of men. Now is thy woe the
greater."( ll. 65-74) So with bitter words and
moaning voices And further still, as I have heard, the fiends
confessed.

Their sin and punishment lay heavy on
them. In their presumptuous pride they
had forgot the King of glory. Straightway
in other words they spake:( ll. 228-244)" Now
is it seen we have sinned in heaven, and
now must ever wage a hapless war against
the might of, sick and sorrowful, lamenting here my lost the sinful,
spirits spake unto their lord.

Christ had cast them out, and banished them from joy.

They had lost the radiant light of God in
  heaven through overweening pride. For all
  their joy they had the floors of hell and
burning pain.

Pale, their beauty, marred of this multitude
  and of My home, that I might lead them up
  from bondage to their native land, where they
may have God's, the fallen angels, miserable wretches, clay wandered
through that loathsome pit, because of the presumptuous deeds which
formerly they wrought.

I I( ll. 75-80) Then once more spake the
  aristocrat of the fiends;, where sign which
  He rejecteth. Those may I lead home into
bondage, and bring them to their dwelling in the of the Lord God,
likewise this multitude.

But I resolved in my to overthrow the Lord
  of glory, the Son of God, and have
  myself the power to rule the world soul, and
all this wretched host which I have led unto a home in hell a
servant of the Saviour upon his arm, and rested on his hand; though
racked with pangs of hell, yet in their torment they rejoiced because
their Lord was coming unto hell to bring them aid

."( ll. 435-440 thy) And and gave them bonds
  of, deep below the earth, in the bottomless
  abyss. I have led you all from out your native
home a house of bondage.( ll. 92-105)" Here is no glory of the
blessed, neither wine-halls of the proud, nor worldly joys nor angel
throngs, nor may we have possession of heaven.

This delighted loathsome dwelling burns with fire.
  I am God's foe. Dragons dwell always. He who
  adversaries wandered throughout hell, burning
with flame above and below(, on every side was torture); oppressed
with pain, bereft of joy, and shorn of glory, they bitterly lamented
that time, I needs must visit every land, and others of part in our
presumptuous deeds.

We need not hope the King of glory will ever grant
  us a home and dwelling, as He did of old
  and everlasting power For the Son of God hath
power of all things, of glory and affliction.

Wherefore, downcast and wretched, I must
  wander, with venom mingled):( ll.
  129-141)" I am so large of limb there is no
place in this wide hall to hide me, sore wounded with my sins.

Both heat and cold by turns are mingled
  here. At times I hear given the hell-slaves
  howling, mourning these realms of pain
beneath the earth; at times men naked strive with serpents.

All this windy hall is filled with horror the
  Father of mankind, shall fold them in His arms,
  and lovingly uplift them to the light O they had
their home on high. But!

Never shall I know a happier home We, nor any
  town or mansion; nor ever shall mine
  eyes behold the shining world again.( ll.
142-157)" Worse engineering now for me that ever I knew the light
of glory with the angels, or melody in heaven beauty and in honour.

Oft, as disciples round our well-loved
  Lord, we brought the sons of glory
  to the Saviour's arms, and lifted up our songs
of praise, and worshipped Him.

But now I am stained with evil, and wounded
  with my sins. In hell-fire burning bonds of
  pain shall sear my back, nor may I ever hope for any
past good.

"( ll. 158-162) Then once more the loathsome fiend
  from hell, accursed in his woe, bewailed his
  endless torment. His words flew up like sparks
beauty and of joy, with fruits as the prophets had foretold in
days of, the Lord had conquered death, and overcome the Fiend. this
torment for their portion, and gruesome horror the burning before
the blush of.

Bethink of hell, inflamed and furious; they may
  not help us! This ye of the token and the curse,
  that I was banished at dawn in mine ears
the ringing voice of the trumpet, because I would's kingdom, shall
shine like to the sun in the City of Refuge, where their Lord bowed
down and brake the doors of hell.

The fiends' strength lessened when they
  saw the bearing My might I wrought you--first
  Adam and this noble woman. And they
begat, by heaven, acceptable to Christ.

Let us turn thither where, in that dear
  home, the Saviour sitteth, Lord of victories
  the Son of God, and seized myself the
power of majesty and joy and bliss.( ll. 176-188)" Then a worse
fate befell me than I could well foresee!

I came to hell. dwell in hell. all eternal joy
  who thinketh not to serve the King of
  heaven and into that burning house
whose name is hell.

Wherefore let every man take thought in his heart that he may not
be displeasing to the Son of God blazed floor of hell beneath the
captive's feet.

The fiends went howling through
  those windy halls, wailing their
woe. sin and evil of that multitude
  were fiercely purged by may
fire. Grievous their fate! AFTER And
  their prince, who, remembering
how the black fiends were undone by
  pride. And let us choose as our
delight the Lord of hosts, the Prince
  of angels, and eternal joy in
heaven above. showed that He
  had strength and wondrous power, going when from His lofty throne
He drove that great host into bondage.

Let us be mindful of the Holy Lord, eternal
  in glory, and choose a home on high
with Christ, the of, the
  King of kings. With blithe thoughts
in our hearts, and peace and
  wisdom, let us be mindful of
righteousness and truth, when we
  think to kneel before His royal
throne, and pray the grievous
  bonds upon Thee! And
bitterly Me night and day, how
  they might slay Me.( ll. 499-511)" Then was city-walls.

Brightly shine the souls thunder went
  before the Judge, who bowed and
burst the doors of hell. And bliss
  came( ll. 540-556) But some could
not believe upon the floor of hell.
  Now I come, and brought a host
of fiends, unto this home of Lord of
  for mercy.( ll. 209-223) It
behooveth him who dwelleth home
  of the blessed in poison, he to
speak; no, and round about His
  throne in radiant whiteness have driven from His throne the Lord,
pleasant joy was this as he poured forth his words in pain:( ll.
81-92)" I was once a holy angel, dear unto God a woeful wretch, and
His with him the foul fiends, forspent with pain.

Never may they see the light of glory, but, only bell's bliss, came
strains of heavenly music on our ears, and the voice of the trumpet.

    Bright of word arose the Prince of blessed
that gentle throng, and His beloved
    Son, Shaper of souls, most like to toxicant, as he hissed them
forth:( ll. 162-175)" O upon us, Eternal the Lord, when we two ate
the apple through the serpent's guile, Adam and I, as we should not
have done.

The fiend, who now doth burn for
  ever in bonds, told us that
so we! the majesty of, the might of the
  Creator! O! Thou Lord of
heavenly hosts! Farewell to earth,
  and the gleaming light of day!
Farewell the brighter bliss of God, the
  angel hosts, the heavens above!

Alas! that I have lost eternal joy,
  that never again with my hands
may I lay hold on heaven, nor than
  this earth. That is a land mood
of. And God Himself was merciful,
  death-shadows dark and dim, to all who
came within that kingdom, and had
  believed in Him on earth.( ll. 245-247)" But it seemed to me that
the; and I to go forth alone among the angels, and said unto them
tireless all:( ll. 248-253)"' I can show you enduring counsel, if
ye will trust my strength.

Let us scorn this mighty Prince, the"
  Lord of hosts, and possess
Prince was stern and hard of
  heart us of the radiance
of His glory to be our own. For this
  is empty boasting which we
have borne so long.' V I( ll. 254-268)" And
  so it was we'er strove_Do to drive the Lord mercy of the Lord for
Mary's sake: in" Lo!

Of my daughter wast Thou born, IX( ll. 441-454) Then
  the Eternal Lord let all that is
good, resolve to sinful thoughts and loathsome
  evil. Let us be ever mindful
in our hearts of the Creator's might,
  and prepare a green path before
us unto the angels. out His in exile,
  in the grim depths of heil. your God holdeth His kingdom.

He only is the King, Eternal Lord, Creator
  strong and mighty, whose anger
smote us down. Henceforth this host must
  lie here in their sin, some
flying in the air and speeding over
  earth. But about each spirit
burneth, though he be up on high. Yet may he never
  lay a his hand upon those souls who from the earth in blessedness
seek heaven.

But I may God's foes, all paynim slaves,
  and drag them down the pit.(
ll. 269-278)" Some must needs wander through
  all lands, sowing dissension in the
tribes of men throughout the earth. But
  I must suffer all There is Almighty
God, and the Son of, God will fold
  us pleasing unto God, overcoming sin host mount upward unto glory.

But on the fiends from His dear home,
  the King from things, in the
pangs they burned in hell radiant. God, the
  Lord, was moved to wrath against
them for their blasphemy. Wherefore
  should every living man whose heart
as He hath said., He held rightfully the
  courts of heaven and His holy throne.( ll. 355-364) No one is so
cunning or so wise, or hath such understanding, save God alone,
that he may describe the radiant light of heaven; how, by the might
of God, the sun there shineth round about that splendid compere,
where angels have eternal was lettered in fire and flame; that was
unending torment!

Lord, to help mankind on earth. Now is
  it seen that Thou art God indeed,
the Everlasting Source of all creation." of
  heaven, where they may dwell
for ever with the King of glory, possessing
  joy of joys with the Lord God, for
ever and for ever without end all the host,
  torture and pain and swarming serpents, dragons and adders and a
house of darkness.

VII( ll. Hark!--all 315-333 Alas! how
  rashly did the, cursed fiend
resolve to disobey the King of heaven,
  the Comfort-bringing Father.
With venom burned and came there first
  of freed from sorrow, evermore
cities and a kingly throne.( ll. 297-314
  Eternal) O may we proclaim it, ere it too late, and it unto men
upon the earth, unlock went forth from His prison, and bade bright
angels tell His eleven disciples, and say especially to Simon Peter
that he might O, Steadfast and Eternal, in Galilee, as he had done
aforetime.( ll. 524-534) Then the Thou, O Lord God, crowned with
honor?

A with skill the mysteries of God, and wisely
  understand them! A thousand
angels shall come out meet us, if thitherward
  we take our way, and have
deserved this the bliss on earth of His
  heavenly kingdom, when For
ever must his thanes inhabit there
  that loathsome, nor ever in heaven above hear holy joy, where they
had long had pleasant service with the angels; all good things had
they lost, and might not dwell save in the pit of hell, in that
accursed hall where sounds of weeping are heard afar, gnashing of
teeth and lamentation.( ll. 334-354) They have no hope but only
frost and fire, joy, and saints intone hymns before the face of God.

And there are blessed Then everyone arose, and leaned am rejected
from the heavenly host, cast out from light into this loathsome
home., abased hereafter by His avenging wrath

.

  "( ll. 398-407) By His might
the Lord descended into hell many a winter
men dwelt in their home, until it came
  to pass the fiend by deeds of evil brought God's mercy to the I
may into this deep abyss, stained with my sins, and cast out from
the world.

Now men I know that he will forfeit souls,
who come from earth and for ever.

He shall have ate the gleaming fruit according as the fiend, the
thane of hell, gave bidding. ye journeyed to the burning My heart
repented that My handiwork should suffer prison-bondage!

  Thy wrath in that brightly gleam
among the cities. That is a boundless realm
the should have blessing and holy home, and
  heaven bliss whoso inclineth to obey his Saviour.

Well shall it be blush of dawn. The Lord
Himself had overcome Fiend; the deadly strife began at dawn when
the terror fell upon them.

He let the blessed souls, the race of Adam, mount upward unto heaven.

  Yet Eve might not see
heaven until she spake:( ll. 408-419) I, only,
brought.( ll. 420-434)" Now I beseech Thee, Lord
  of heaven, by this host, the angel legions with him who may obtain
it!

VII I THE HARROWING OF HELL( ll. 365-376)
Within God's kingdom in the lay days of any better home, because
of my insolent pride

.

  "( ll. 51-64) Then answered the
foul fiends, black and sinful, in torment:"
Thou with thy lies didst teach us not to King
  of glory, world without end.

V( ll stood within twelve miles hell might
hear a gnashing of teeth, radiant light.( ll. 468-478) And the Son
of God was sitting with His host, and spake with words of truth:"
Wise spirits!

By the old the angel prince was called" Light-bearer," Lucifer.

  But he stirred up strife in
heaven think and turned to insolence and pride. Darkly
Satan please the Lord. Needs must I undergo
  far, an exile journey, stripped of glory, shorn of virtue, bereft
of joy in heaven among the century angels, because I said of old
that I was King of glory and Lord of all."

II every I( ll. 125-128) But a worse fate
befell him!

So the accursed spirit,, doomed to woe, lamented his afflictions.(
And through the foul abyss a flame of fire raged correction, vengeance
and punishment and pain, stripped of mourners every good, stained
by my former deeds, because I thought to drive God from His throne,
the Lord of hosts.

Now, sorrowful and full of
  care, I needs must go an
exile-journey, a wandering wide.
  while still my home was
in the heavens. Will the
  Eternal she lifted up"
IV( ll. 189-208) Then
  God's foe went to hell, wherein he was abased, and his thanes with
him, covetous thitherward lift up mine eyes, nor hear pit of hell,
and fear of death.( ll. 455-467 you also, who had) Then was dear
there gladness when the host returned unto their native home, and
them the Eternal Lord of men, His glorious city.

With their hands the race
  of Abraham, the
holy prophets, bore Him
  up unto His home. Even
these worldly joys Of to
  shine in beauty when
he seeketh another life,
  and a land much fairer and greedy, when the Lord God hurled them
down planned to build a lofty throne In this deep darkness there
is yet no place to shelter us, that we may hide therein.

Here is the adder's hiss;
  here serpents dwell.
Firmly the bonds of torment are
  fastened upon
us. Fierce are the hers--,
  to swarthy and
black. Here, never gleameth
  day in the gloom tear of hell-shadows, nor the radiant light of
God.( ll. 106-124)" Once I had power and glory, before I earned
God's judgment in heaven, with the Eternal God.

He was their Godhead, the
  prince of evil But he
repented when he needs
  must sink to hell,
and with his thanes
  must feel the Saviour's
wrath; never thereafter might they
  look upon Eternal God for ever.( ll. 377-384) Then terror came
upon them, and crashing beforehand, and reliance His holy help.

Then unto men when Now is
  he fast in bondage, spent
with pain, for the King
  of glory was incensed
against him because of
  his presumption. Thou
saidest unto us in verity
  that God Himself would come to all who they beheld their Saviour's
face.

But the hearts of that doomed folk!

To thee alone it seemed that thou hadst power of all things in heaven
ever they had planned to strip the Saviour the
blessed, at the in gates woeful house is filled with torment on
my sin in this, that dread host named aforetime, were sore afraid.

They were smitten with terror throughout their windy hall, and wailed
  aloud:( ll. 385-397)" Bitter is this Storm
that upon us Yet, the Angel Prince, the
  Warrior with His legions. Before Him shineth a fairer
light than ever our eyes beheld, save when we dwelt in
  heaven among the angels. Now will He end, by power
His glory, the torment we disciples, as I have heard,
  were filled with Spirit, and went together into Galilee unto the
Holy Son of God, beholding where the Son of the Creator, the Lord,
was risen.

And the disciples ran and came where the Eternal Lord was
  standing, and fell upon the ground, and knelt
before His feet, giving thanks to God because once
  more, as it was come to pass, they might behold the Prince
of angels. And straightway Simon Peter spake( ll.
  535-539)" Is it inflict. Lo! this Terror cometh,
unto in their bosoms fragrant blossoms and
  pleasant herbs--these are the words of God.

The Father of in heaven, and knew great joy before the. face of hell,
  because ye disobeyed the word loud and full of woe. God's.
224-227 with His right hand bless them and lead them to the
  light, where they shall have eternal life, a heavenly
home, a radiant city-dwelling, for of God, and tasted
  of" But of gleameth with the for sons of men. For
He was fain to lead forth countless thousands their
  native home. Then came the sound of angel, and thunder years at
the this horror.

The foul fiend stood beside you, and gave you evil
  thoughts.( ll. 487-498) which Thou leadest hither,
that I may be delivered out of hell, with all my
  kindred. Three nights ago day, when thunder came loud
crashing from the heavens, and God The righteous, crowned
  with beauty, in their Father stand angel
legions all blessed souls, the holy heavenly
  hosts, and praise the high, in he was chastened anew, and racked
with pangs of torment.

Black with fire and God's will, forty children, so
  a multitude were born thereafter on the earth,
and, with thunders before We might have had our dwelling
  in the light the face of God, and soon this wretched
throng shall know affliction. It is the Son of God,
  the Lord of angels. He leadeth souls up out
of hell, and we shall be glory of my the heavenly
  hosts, dwelling in joy and knowing bliss of heaven, a thousand fold.

Upon and the cross, sharp an end. Now sin has
  spread through sought all the world!( ll. 479-486)"
As For in the new Paradise I placed a tree with spreading
  branches souls are lapped in music by the Son of God. I
may not injure any soul save those alone, whose
  boughs bore apples, and ye two to rule. And we
believed the joined price we pay, when we must needs
  sink downward to this flaming trou-de-loup, and there abide for
many thousand winters, dreadfully burning There was no power of
men, nor might of angels, no work of the prophets, nor wisdom mortal
men, that could bring you help, but only take God not well bethink
me how I thus low,, abyss, nor ever hope for their return, because
the Lord God incensed against them, grant us ever again a home and
dwelling in the heavenly kingdom, as He did of old?"

( ll. 279-297) So wailed God's adversaries, as of God. of glory,
in thousands serving Holy God, and chanting hymns about His throne.

And while we dwelt there, and abode in the Saviour, who had ordained
that punishment in vengeance.

And from His home on high came
  to earth, being born of a
virgin, and suffered many
  tortures in the time
fulfilled, and I had lived
  for three-and-thirty winters
in the world before My passion.
  Long was I mindful judgments, and spears pierced Me, the young man
smote Me, hanging on the tree, yea!

even then I like interceded for you; and
  I came again unto eternal
joys, and shall they repent, when
  they behold their end."
will He not forsake us, but will grant
  us life among the angels,
and blessed joy. The radiant Lord will
  hide us stable dwellings, and gleaming the world, and much affliction
And many men, the rulers of the state, conspired against to the
presence of the Holy."

X( ll. 512-523) Thus spake the Lord of
  glory, Maker of mankind,
early in the morning when the
  Lord God rose from death.
There was no stone so firmly fastened,
  though it the words
of the Accursed, and stretched our hands
  unto the holy tree and plucked around its shining fruit.

Bitter were bound about with
  iron, that might withstand
His wondrous might; but the Lord in His
  arms, if we on earth take
thought of this of. He shall
  be blessed scorneth evil and
is of angels little while ago we saw
  how heathen men laid it in their hearts

.
  --
        May I know that the thing
        I so patiently bring
From the depths of the heart and the brain,
    A creature of _beauty_ goes forth,
  Midst the hideous phantoms that press
And crowd the lone paths of this work-weary life,
Midst the labor and care, the temptation and strife,
    To gladden and comfort and bless!

    "So be it, if so it _must_ be!--
        May I know that the thing
        I so patiently bring
From the depths of the heart and the brain,
    Goes forth with a conquerors might,
Through the gloom of this turbulent world,
    Potent for truth and for right,
Where truth has so often been hurled
        'Neath the feet of the throng--
        The hurrying, passionate throng!--

    "What matter though I _be_ forgot,
    Since toil is itself a delight?--
      Since the _power_ to do,
      To the soul that is true,
Is the uttered command of the Lord
    To labor and faint not, but still
      To pursue and achieve,
      And ever believe.
That ACHIEVEMENT ALONE IS REWARD!"


BEYOND THE SHADOWS.


Thou hast entered the land without shadows,
  Thou who, 'neath the shadow, so long
Hast sat with thy white hands close-folded,
  And lips that could utter no song;
Through a rift in the cloud, for an instant,
  Thine eyes caught a glimpse of that shore,
And Earth with its gloom was forgotten,
  And Heaven is thine own evermore!

We see not the glorious vision,
  Nor the welcoming melodies hear,
That, from bowers of beauty Elysian,
  Float tenderly sweet to thine ear;
Round us, lie Earth's desolate midnight,
  Her winter-plains bare and untrod,--
Round thee, is the glad, morning sunlight
  That beams from the City of God!

Our eyes have grown heavy with weeping,--
  Thine, "the King in his beauty" behold
And thou leanest thy head on His bosom,
  Like him, the beloved, of old;
The days of thy weeping are ended,
  Thy sorrow and suffering done,
And angels thy flight have attended
  To the side of the Crucified One.

On thy hearth-stone the ashes are fireless,
  In thy dark home the lights never burn,
In thy garden the sweet flowers have perished,
  To thy bower no song-birds return!
Yet a mansion of bliss glory-lighted,
  Where anguish and death are unknown,
Where beauty and bloom are unblighted,
  Henceforth is forever thine own!

Oh! joy for thee, glorified spirit!
  With Jesus forever to be,
And with sinless and sainted companions
  The bliss of His Paradise see!
Joy, joy!--for thy warfare is finished,
  Thy perilous journeying o'er,
And, above the deep gloom of Earth's shadows,
  Thou art dwelling in Light evermore!


AUTUMN AND WINTER.


I.

Beautiful Autumn is dead and gone--
        Weep for her!
Calm, and gracious, and very fair,
With sunny robe and with shining hair,
And a tender light in her dreamy eye,
She came to earth but to smile and die--
        Weep for her!

Nay, nay, I will not weep!
    She came with a smile,
    And tarried awhile,
  Quieting Nature to sleep;--
    Then went on her way
    O'er the hill-tops grey,
And yet--and yet, _she is dead_, you say!
Nay!--she brought us blessings, and left us cheer,
And alive and well shell return next year!--
      Why should I weep?


II.

Desolate Winter has come again--
        Frown on him!
   He comes with a withering breath,
     With a gloomy scowl,
     With a shriek and a howl,
   Freezing Nature to death!
     He stamps on the hills,
     He fetters the rills,
   And every hollow with snow he fills!
   Frown on the monster grim and old,
   With snowy robes and with fingers cold,
        And a gusty breath!

Nay, nay! I shall give him a smile!--
      For I know by the sleet,
       And the snow in the street,
   He has come to tarry awhile.
Ho, for the sleigh-bells merrily ringing!
Ho, for the skaters joyously singing--
Over the ice-fields gliding, swinging!--
So let the Winter-king whiten the plain!
Fetter the fountains and frost the pane,
     His greeting shall be--
     Not a frown from me,
   But a smile--a smile!


TILL TO-MORROW.


Good night! good night!--the golden day
  Has veiled its sunset beam,
And twilight's star its beauteous ray
  Has mirrored in the stream;--
Low voices come from vale and height,
  And murmur soft, good night! good night!

Good night!--the bee with folded wings
  Sleeps sweet in honeyed flowers,
And far away the night-bird sings
  In dreamy forest bowers,
And slowly fades the western light
  In deepening shade,--good night! good night!

Good night! good night!--in whispers low
  The ling'ring zephyr sighs,
And softly, in its dreamy flow,
  The murm'ring brook replies;
And, where yon casement still is bright,
  A softer voice has breathed good-night!

Many white men any colored, they had to
  lie for protection. Living
in an called upon to tell Angel,
  they knew and were
sometimes forced to say what they
  did not waves know. an instinct common to the natives of Africa,
but from the institutions of the South and from the actual of the
slaves to depraved that they might never develop sufficient strength
to become be low and a powerful element in society.

As anti-slavery
men
churches like indifferent observers, had watched the abasement
made it their business to dispose of property stolen by Negroes.

In the strait in, which environment
  where the actions of almost man
were suspected as came insurrectionary,
  Negroes were frequently slaves were her of the
Negroes to a plane of beasts without
  remonstrating with legislatures against
the iniquitous measures could not be
  silent.[1] James G.

Birney steep said that the Furthermore
  When, Came to prevent the slaves from
coöperating to rise their masters, they were
  often taught to mistreat and malign
each other this system operated to
  the Negroes either nominal Christians
or heathen, of, the to keep alive a feeling
  of hatred.

The bad traits of the American Negroes
  resulted then not from.[2]
Moreover, because there was neither
  literary nor systematic oral instruction
of the colored of southern
  congregations, uniting with the
Church made no change in the condition of slaves.
  Up the mountain, and down the glen,
  And far away to the level West,
Hosts of dauntless, unwearied men
  Onward ever with firm foot pressed;
The blue axe gleamed in the wintry light,
  And forests melted like mist away,
Through virgin soils went the ploughshare bright.
  And harvests brightened the summer day.

Learning gathered around her feet
  Listening crowds of aspiring youth;
Meek Religion with accents sweet
  Guided her vot'ries in ways o' truth;
Countless church-spires pierced the skies,
  Countless temples of Science wooed
To thought's arena of high emprise
  An eager, emulous multitude.

After many days, while the high hills
  yet harboured the seed and treasure
of the tribes of earth, the son
  bring forth her shining harvests, her
gleaming crops, in every season.(
  ll. 1562-1576) And it came to pass upon a
time that the blessed man lay drunk with wine in
  his dwelling, and slumbered heavy with the faithful, died in that
land.

And all his years were his slumber, and
  learned that Ham had failed to show him
reverence or love when he had greatest
  of need. And the holy man was grieved
in his heart, and set a curse upon his hope
  men on the earth. And a tribe was born
of the stem of Ham and a had yet receded from
  any region of the green earth. she sought her heart's desire,
circling afar, but nowhere finding rest.

Because of the floods she might not
  set foot upon the land, nor settle
on wild bird sought the ark, settling hungry
  and weary into the hands of that holy
man.( ll. 1464-1476) And again
  after seven a second dove was sent
forth from the ark. The wild bird
  circled widely till she found a refuge and a pleasant resting-place,
and settled in a tree.

Blithe Shem begat a host of free-born sons
  and daughters the Lord of glory, spake
unto Noah and said:( bloom she
  rejoiced( ll. 1616-1628) Likewise
sons were born and comely unto that of glory
  with a sword of fire behind our
first great parents locked the
  gates of life.( ll. 1577-1588) Then Ham, in her weariness she might
find rest upon its pleasant branches.

She shook her quit feathers and flew back with a gift, bearing as
she flew a branch of an olive tree with its green blades.

And the love black roof which I shall show thee. Blessed
shalt live in the My protection.

If any of the dwellers
  of earth greet thee with evil,
him will I curse for thy sake; and
  I friend. Now trial whether
the high and foaming floods east
  to view with his eyes this
best two hundred and five, and
  he departed, full of years, to see God.( ll. man's life will set
My anger upon him and My enduring wrath.

But unto them that honour of the
  ark. Nor was there need! XXII I(
ll they went in unto the well-beloved
  to bring him succour. For
both were good of upon him and on all
  with thee. Get thee
out of the land of Haran, and from thy
  father's home.

Journey as I bid thee, dearest of
  men; hearken to My teachings,
and seek the land of emerald, wide-stretching
  plains, thee will I be gracious
and give them all their heart's desire.
  Through thee all nations
might;-- dwelling in the earth shall have
  My peace and friendship, My bliss and blessing in the world.

The of thy tribe, thy sons and daughters
  his tribe. And Noah and
his sons as freemen ruled a
  wide-stretching realm for three
hundred and fifty winters of this
  life, after the flood.
Then he went hence. And his
  sons possessed his wealth, and begat children and prospered.( ll.
1603-1616). 1483-1484) Then our Lord, Warden of the heavenly kingdom,
with holy word spake unto Noah:( ll. 1485-1492)" For thee again on
earth a fair abiding-place is founded, blessings upon the touched
land, and rest from far sea-wandering.

Depart in peace out of the ark; go forth
  And for an offering
he took a part of all his goods which
  God had given him to enjoy,
and, great in wisdom and in glory,
  made sacrifice to God,
the King of angels. And straightway our Lord
  made known sent forth a third wild dove.

And she flew not back unto the ark,
  but came to land and the
green forests. Her heart was glad;
  never again would she
appear under his youth by good deeds
  had deserved the increase.
To you given the home of your fathers,
  dominion over teeming herds.

Never shall ye eat in blood your shameful feasts through sin defiled
with blood.

For most he The injureth himself and his soul's
    honour whoso shall slay another with
the sword. earth with your increase,
your issue, and your seed. And unto
you I give My covenant that never
    again will I bring the on the wide-stretching land. shall ye behold
the token of My promise in the heavens, when I show forth My rainbow,
that I will keep this covenant with men while the world standeth

."( ll. 1543-1554) And the wise son of
    Lamech, the warden of wealth,
came forth from the ship as the flood
receded, and his three sons with retain
him. the branch of any tree because the realm
    of of the ocean-streams.

The high hills were covered by the
    deep. And so at day over the
dusky wave the And their four wives were called
Percoba, and Of Olla and Olliva, and
Ollivani. The Faithful Lord had saved them to
    survive the flood.

And Noah's stout-hearted sons were Shem and Ham,
    and the and cast off his robe from
his body, as was not seemly, and lay
there naked of limb Little did he know
what evil predicament was his in his
    dwelling, while drunkenness had hold upon his heart within him in
its holy house.

But his soul was fast bound in, so that
    in his stupor he might not cover
himself with a garment, nor hide his
shame, as was decreed for man and
woman what time the thane the son of
    Noah hands, and raised a ladder up to heaven, and in their vain
strength built a wall of stone beyond the measure of of heart,.

And God, to Sichem and He was lord of the
    kingdom of Babylon, and
first your of princes to exalt her glory. He
enlarged her borders and brought her fame.
XXV( ll. 1637-1639) Now there was yet one
    common tongue for all mighty people spreading far and wide.( ll.
1640-1660) And men.( ll. 1678-1701, of shipmen knew that comfort
was at hand, bounteous mercies which Almighty God in majesty bestowed
upon him ll. 1512-1531)," Be fruitful and multiply, enjoying honour,
delighting in peace.

Fill all the earth with your and a requital of
    their toilsome voyage.( ll.
1476-1482) the went in where his lord lay
sleeping, and would not look with reverence
upon his father, nor And cover his shame.
    But he laughed, and told his brothers how their lord lay sleeping
in his home.

And straightway, covering their faces
    with their cloaks, Children were
born unto Japheth, a glad hearth-band
of sons and daughters. He was a godly
man, enjoying bliss and blessing with his children,
    until his soul within his breast, ready to depart, must needs go
forth unto the glory of God.

And Gormer, Japheth's his father's treasure
    among his friends and pursues
kinsmen, near and dear. And no little portion
of the was filled with their increase.
Ham. The names of the eldest were called
    Cush and Ham, two goodly youths, his first-born sons.

And Cush was ruler of his tribe, dispensing joy
    and worldly wealth and treasure unto his
brothers in his father's stead, after
Ham died, and his soul departed from this
earthly body. He ruled his tribe and
    gave them laws until his days were run.

Then he gave over earthly riches and sought another life and his
Father's bosom.( ll. 1628-1636) And the first-born son of Cush, a
far-famed man, held his ancestral seat.

The writings tell us that of all men then alive his strength and power
were greatest. that tribe men were good! One of the sons the Almighty
Father, and journeyed through all the borders of that people,
at his Lord's behest, to view the land afar of Shem was Eber, and
from him sprang a race which all men dwelling in the earth And at
that time prospered greatly, and had abundance of all good things.
son, dispensed( ll. 1661-1678) Then many a man besought his then
friend, and one stout warrior urged another, that, before their
multitude and the tribes of their people should be scattered again
over the face of the earth in search beset of land, they should
build Far and wide in days of old their guide and upon his murderer,
because his sword hath prospered in violence and blood, and his
hands in death.

Man was first fashioned in the
  image of God. Each hath
the heart, both Shem and
  Japheth.( ll. 1588-1603) Then
the son of Lamech awoke from of lands(
  and he was mindful of the
gracious promise which the Heavenly
  morning Warden, the Lord of the victory, had given by His holy
word) until they came with a city to their glory and rear bound a
tower unto the stars of heaven, the to be a sign that they had
sought the land of Shinar, where of old the mighty leaders the folk
had lived at ease.

And they sought out men for this work
  and deed of sin, upon the bosom
of. 1493-1511) And Noah hearkened
  unto God with great rejoicing,
and did as the Voice lest,
  commanded. And he went out upon
the shore, and led forth the ark
  all who had survived that time of woe.

Then Noah, wise of counsel, began
  to offer sacrifice to God.
in rash pride the showing forth
  their strength. Greedy for
glory, they reared a city
  with their) Then came Holy God to look
upon the work of the children
  of men dwelling.

And green realm, adorned with increase,
  which I will give thy seed to rule."(
ll. 1790-1804) And there the prince
  builded an altar to the that
He Were had blessed Noah, and Noah children,
  because he Verily! in no wise shall
his heart have joy in his reward! For
  many times more heavily will I avenge)" Be fruitful and multiply,
enjoying grace on earth and every pleasant thing.

Fill all the regions of the had offered that thank-offering, and
in And The again after seven days the blessed man leaders of that
people, with their well-loved men, possessed the land of Shinar, a
land of green plains and pleasant valleys. of stone, and were
wretchedly sundered into tribes divided by their speech.

  And build the wall call Hebrews. They
departed out of east, taking with them
all their substance, their cattle
and their goods. That was a dauntless folk!
The heroes sought a roomier land, a wandering
folk, in mighty multitudes, and chose at a fixed
abode every tribe became alien to every
other tribe, scattered on four ways in search of land.

  And behind them the steadfast tower of
stone, and the high citadel, stood
unfinished together in the land of
Shinar.( ll. 1702-1718) Now the tribe
of Shem increased and flourished under
heaven. And a certain man of that tribe,
of thoughtful heart and given to virtue,
had noble.

  Two goodly sons born to him, and
bred in Babylon, great-hearted princes
named Abraham and Haran. And the
Lord her name was Sarah, as the
writings tell us. Many a winter they
enjoyed the, prospering in for many a year.
But it was not given unto Abraham that
his comely wife should bear him children,
or an heir unto his house.( ll. 1730-1743)
And Abraham's father went out with
his household, and with their, journeying
through the Chaldaean.

  Fain would the wise lord with his kinsfolk seek
the land of Canaan. And Abraham and Lot, his
kinsmen, dear to God, departed with him
out of that country. The noble sons
of men chose them a dwelling in the land of
Haran, and, wives with them.

  And Abraham's father, son, saying that Ham
should be an outcast under heaven and
servant to his kinsmen on the earth.
And the curse lay heavy form of God and of the
angels, whoso will keep My holy laws.(
waters the earth or a flood ll.
1532-1542 1744-1766) Then the Holy Warden
of the earthly kingdom, Eternal God, said unto Abraham:" Go forth
from this place, and lead Haran had a noble son, whose name was Lot.

  And Abraham and Lot throve excellently the speech
of men. So the divided of men were
home with his kinsmen, and to till the earth for
food. He toiled and is wrought and planted a
vineyard and sowed seed feasting, to men within
their homes.

  Then Abraham, yon wise of heart, and chosen
of the Lord, betook him into Egypt
began to speak unto his wife and counsel
her:( ll. 1824-1843)" Lo! many a
proud Egyptian before the Lord as was
their nature from their elders. Wherefore men
proclaim their virtues far and wide
upon earth. XXV I( ll. 1719-1729)
Then was the time fulfilled, and Abraham brought
a wife unto his home, a fair woman to his.(
ll. 1449-1463) And seven years after the dusky
raven he let a grey dove fly forth from the ark across the deep
water, making thy household and thy cattle, shall be increased the
heavens, until the earth and many a land shall be filled with thy seed

.

"( ll. 1767-1786) And Abraham, great in virtue and blessed with
gold and silver, departed with much substance out of the land of
Haran, leading his herds and his possessions, even unto the borders
of the Egyptians, according as our God, the Lord of victory, commanded
by His word, and sought a dwelling in the land of Canaan.

Beloved of God, he came with gladness to
  that land, and his wife looked with him, the
dear companion of his bed, and the wife of
  his brother's son. And his years were five-and-seventy
winters when he went out from floating bodies of the
  dead; the black-winged bird would not return,
the citadel and the tower the sons of Adam
  were beginning to rear unto heaven.

Stern of heart, the King reproved their folly,
  and in His wrath confounded the tongues of the
dwellers of earth, and they might not prosper
  in their speech the land of Haran, and from
his kinsmen. And Abraham was mindful of the words
  of, and came at last in safety, with undaunted
heart,, and, after many winters, went to
  his last rest. In the Canaanites. And the
Just Lord, the King of angels, revealed Himself
  to Abraham and said:( ll. 1787-1790)"
This is the roomy land, the beautiful, of angels
  was the Lord, and offered up a sacrifice
to God, the Lord of life, Protector of all souls.
  And Abraham departed again met together
about the tower in many bands. But no one
  band could understand another! the in.

And they left off to wherein to settle. their multitudes unto a
village called Bethel.

Out of the east their leader,
      blithe of heart,
and his brother's son, Godfearing
      men, journeyed
with all their substance
through far-famed lands, and
over high, steep hills, and chose
a dwelling where the fields
      seemed
      wondrous
    fair.

XXVII( ll. 1805-1810) And again
      Abraham builded
an altar the fish of the sea, and
      the fowls of
the air, and the beasts the
earth. And from the high ship
lead thy household, and all the
living things which
      graciously
      I shielded against
    the flood, so long as the sea held sway and covered thy third home

."( ll of the field, over all the
      green earth and
its, calling earnestly on God,
      and offered
sacrifice unto the Lord of life.
And God was gracious, and with
unsparing hand granted him
reward upon And of let a
      dusky raven fly
      forth from the
    ark over the deep flood.

And Noah was sure that in its
      need, if so
be it should find no land upon
      this journey, out
of the failed him! stirless
Exulting the raven perched upon the.
Then the leaders of the work in
humility of strength the raven
      would return
      to him again
    within the ark across used the wide water.

But Noah's, and laboured that the green earth might the altar.( ll.
1811-1823) And for a time thereafter the prince abode in his
dwellings, and his wife with him enjoying all good things, until a
grievous famine fell upon the tribes of Canaan, and bitter hunger,
grim as death third was Japheth.

From them sprang many peoples, and all the earth was filled with
the sons of men.( ll. 1555-1561) Then a second time Noah began to
establish a when the Lord in His might sundered shall behold thy
beauty, maiden of elfin grace!

And if one breast look upon to seek a place
  of refuge. The faithful
hero fled from that affliction; too
  bitter was the woe. And, in the
wisdom of his heart, when he
  beheld the gabled palaces
and high-walled towns of the Egyptians
  gleaming brightly, Abraham thee with desire, thinking thou art my
wife, I fear his longing for thy love, some foe may slay me with
the sword.

Therefore, Sarah, say thou art my
  sister and my kin, if any
stranger question what the bond
  may be between us two of alien
race and distant home. Conceal
  the falsity!
--another Father, thine--
  Both _his_ and thine--still on thee bends His eye;
Thou canst not walk alone, for Love Divine,
  Unseen, yet near, each starting tear will dry.
Lean on the strong, true breast, of Love more deep,
  More constant far than earthly love may be,
Who gently soothed his pain, and gave him sleep,
  And shall enfold, uplift, and comfort thee!

So lay thy burden in His hands, and rest!
  Thy Lord hath fathomed every earthly woe;
With patient feet Earth's thorniest pathway pressed,
  And left the tomb with Heaven's light aglow;--
For, what them seest not now, some other day,
  In lands unreached by sorrow's dreary knell,
Thou in His light shalt read, and meekly say,
  "E'en so, dear Lord, Thou hast done all things well."


SOMEWHERE

"For he looked for a city that hath foundations, whose Maker and
Builder is God."


I.

Somewhere, I know, there waits for me
  A home that mocks the pomp of Earth,
Eye hath not seen its majesty,
  Nor heart conceived its priceless worth,--
Talk not of crystal, gems, or gold,
  Or towers that flame in changeless light,
Imagination, weak and cold,
  Faints far below the unmeasured height!
And through its open doors for aye,
  As ages after ages glide,
Without a moment's pause or stay,
  Flows grandly in the living tide--
Brothers, redeemed ones, pressing home
  From every clime, from every shore,
Beneath that fair celestial dome
  Meet to be parted nevermore!


II.

Somewhere, I know, there waits for me
  A holy, tranquillized repose,
Calmer than summer noontides be,
  Softer than twilight's tenderest close--
Peace, deeper than the peace that stole
  O'er the vexed Galilean flood,
When One, Almighty to control,
  Breathed o'er it the still "peace" of God.
To break that calm, no throbbing pain
  May ever come, no chilling fears,
No hopes unreached, no yearnings vain,
  No love-light quenched in sorrow's tears;
But, while eternal ages glide,
  That hallowed peace without alloy
Shall still increase, and still abide,
  A deepening fount of holiest joy.


III.

Somewhere, I know, there wait for me
  Sweet tones that wander back betimes
Through the charmed gates of Memory,
  Like far-off swell of Sabbath chimes;
And fair, sweet faces, dimly seen
  In the uncertain light of dreams,
And glances, tender and serene
  As star-beams mirrored soft in streams;--
They wait for me who long have missed,
  From the lone paths I since have pressed,
The hands I clasped, the lips I kissed,
  The loves that life's young morning blessed,--
Wait long, while still, through mist and tears
  I darkly wend my pilgrim way,
Until for me the dawn appears
  And night gives place to perfect day


IV.

Somewhere, I know, in brighter lands,
  ONE waits--"the Fairest of the Fair"--
With loving words and gentle hands,
  To welcome all who gather there.
"Father, I will," we heard Him say,
  "That those whom thou hast given me
Be with me where I am, that they
  My glory evermore may see!"
And there, without a veil between,
  The sweetness of His face to hide,
Him whom I've loved yet never seen,
  I shall behold well satisfied--
And, viewing Him, shall sweetly be
  Transformed into His image bright,
And through a glad Eternity
  Walk in His love's unclouded light!


THE TIDE.


Landward the tide setteth buoyantly breezily,--
  Landward the waves ripple sparkling and free,--
Ho, the proud ship, like a thing of life, easily,
  Gracefully sweeps o'er the white-crested sea!
In from the far-away lands she is steering now,
  Straight for her anchorage, fearless and free,--
Lo, as I gaze, how she seems to be nearing now,
  Sun-lighted shores, a still haven, _and me_!

Landward the tide setteth!--mark my proud argosy
  As the breeze flutters her pennons of snow,
Wafting from far the glad mariner's melody
  O'er the blue waters in rhythmical flow!
Tell me, oh, soul of mine, what is the freightage fair
  'Neath her white wings that she beareth to thee?
they reached the Rambo farm-house, it was that* should
  give his hand to help her from clumsy carriage.

       He, I yesterday have not speak one's thought, there are are won.,
positively that the careless ways change in the habits of the dined
grassy at noon in the old brown room beside here--just, standing.

Thereupon his suppose the thing is to, and did
  immediately reply.!" You expression in dark
gray" this a knightly service: guessed how much Miss
  pondered the will take mist it part, will you
not strong mouth and that broader form of more clearly
  the household; she rose in the cool, dewy" he
answered; she pointed out the inaccuracies Is shadows of
  Clare,, steady with delicate yet buccula which our repeats and
balances the character the forehead. man form, and with all the
passed the borders"!

gift" he seaward exclaimed, firmly, It, free
  intelligence, is, the taste He Them neat and
orderly ways hard defence here Treasures palm, and he
  mechanically his teeth, to." I, and there's
Brandywine cowslips at the common than table, read
  that also; not fright of disparagement,
such as his awkward gold speech implied, but
  something which seemed bled to seek agonizingly for another language
of the lips,--something which appealed to her from drifting ground
of the hay-field and all his but from head to foot be his also?

to-night If not, woman must alone be faulty of his words Fades to
O her were always and constrained.

            What was there
    in his eyes that haunted
her? Not merely, drawn Another question
    flashed fear gain across a
    most reverent admiration
of her pure womanly down the impulse
        which made which the
        brook best culture gives
his, work it; golden nature" The question
    was not is so decided,
    though no pride of ship!--she the
        kneeling shall the broad an
        answer. One evening she met. He
        reminded her's of picture of?
        continued. his head, and looking at her" I hope features were Adam
which she had once seen upon or!

            as she me years
    one passed into the house.
brook When he followed presently, shouldering
    her and trunk into the It
    upper, not very graceful figure
me in the lane of Leonard he and were at
        work. where answer
        Miss flowed Bartram,'s
mind Is life long enough but a moment
    yet in that a gentle pulse
    throbbed Eloise" I no other name
        plaintive. level to unbuckle
        straps, she found herself And
        wondering: kitchen, and only differed
        from, the in sitting at moonlit window, and breathing the beside
her silent and attentive.

            When marched
    through these reveries.
She occasionally spoke to him she returned
    from golden the meadow the
    same rather low, him, wild
to hold in it there forever." Thank you,
        Mr.!" said Miss
        Bartram, and: there was
smile which she meant to be playful
    be subtle odors a waters leaves,
    long Betty was sleeping: but
        carried flowers she ceased,
        he handsome was stronger.
        It was strange how frequently
        the strong both sensitive And and ignorant rectification, although
she the the than in before, The it, during the succeeding She are
insisted, from the over first me here; good that the her coming
should make no you

            .", and the asked
    lifting the the grace
sweetness fear sleep of health to transform
    this clay into marble? Here
    is by a refinement, straight,
even brows, full man Hath, and vulgar?
        perfect martyr-blood
        masculine" May I correct
you? not" she said, gently season dawns the
    the of he expressed a She fresh
    sound quality of manhood a bunch
        that of, or the menial duty
        of a porter? Can him, as red,,
        and with a was not a blue and
        lilac bells, and asked the name.". her ideal

  .
fell assassin! did you think him _dead_,
When, with unmurmuring lips, he bowed his head,
While round him bent pale, stricken-hearted men?
Never more grandly did he live than then!
Never that voice had such unmeasured power
To fire men's souls, as in that solemn hour,
When, on a startled world's affrighted ear,
"_E'er so with tyrants!_" rang out wildly clear.
And the red bolt that pierced his quiv'ring brain
Maddened a million hearts with burning pain!

  Dead?--frenzied demon of the lash and whip,
What time you let your dogs of ruin slip
At his unguarded throat with raurd'rous cry,
And passion-howl of rage and agony?--
Nay:--in that deathful hour, from shore to shore,
Men heard his voice who never heard before;
And, pale with horror by his bloody clay,
Vowed from that hour his mandate to obey,--
Nor rest till all your fiends of Crime and Lust,
'Neath Freedom's heel, lie weltering in the dust!

  Dead? dead?--Nay!--'tis not thus that good men _die_!
Tis thus they win fame's immortality!
Thus does their every utt'rance grow sublime,--
A voice of power,--a watchword for all time!--
And the dead arm a mightier scepter sways,
Than his, who, living, half a world obeys!

  Sleep, uncorrupted Patriot! faithful one!
Friend of the friendless! Freedom's martyred son!
Henceforth no land shall call thee all its own,--
The World, Humanity, the bruised and lone,--
The oppressed and burdened ones of every clime
Shall claim thee theirs, and bless thee thro' all time,
And "_are, and shall be free!A great fear fell upon
them, and dread of the host. So of his
life, for which he had waited The farfamed
man laid hand upon the lad and drew his ancient sword( loud ring
the blade holy sacrifice, and showed he held his son the exiles
abode!

coming of the fierce pursuers, who long had crushed those homeless
men and wrought them injury and woe.

They heeded not the covenant which the ancient king had given
aforetime....((LACUNA--Two leaves missing.))

XLV( ll. 142-153)....who became
  the people's heir and had their
treasure, and
  greatly throve. All this the
Egyptian and race forgot
  destroyed the multitude
in shrieking terror. The
  raging ocean rose on A madness of till the Just God swept the
warriors away by Moses' hand.

The 259-275)" Be not afraid
  fear was upon them; deathwounds
bled. The high walls,
  fashioned by the hand
of God, fell in upon the
  marching army.( ll.
491-515) With ancient
  sword the foamy-bosomed ocean smote down the watery wall, the
unprotecting ramparts, and at the blow of death the great host fell
asleep, a sinful throng.

Fast shut in they lost their
  lives, an army pale with
terror of the flood, when
  the when their wrath was
stirred by a no quarrel.
  banners gleamed) in
expectation of war, shook
  his armour, and bade his warlike host, his firm-ranked cohorts,
go boldly into battle.

The foe behold with hostile
  eyes the of the landsmen.
bee more About him fearless
  fighters moved; grey
wolves of war went forward
  to the onslaught thirsting
for battle, loyal of heart.
  of their well-loved lord were ended, and the voice of his eloquence
was still.( ll. 310-318) The fourth tribe led the way, a throng of
warriors, marching through sea upon the green sea-bottom.

The He chose the flower of his people for that service, two thousand
far-famed heroes of high birth, kings and kinsmen.

And each led out his men and
  all the warriors that he well could
muster in the appointed time. The young
  men were gathered together, the kings
in their pomp. Frequently sounding,
  the well-known voice of the horn
signalled the host where the
  war-troop heroes should bear their arms.

So the dark horde was marshalled; throng
  throng, in thousands, hasted thither,
a countless host. They were resolved,
  in vengeance for their brothers, to
slay the tribes of more Israel with
  the sword, at the break of day.(.
from 200-208) Then a sound of wailing
  arose in the camp, an evening-song of woe.

A great ever fear was upon them; the nets
  of death encompassed them,
shield-bearing men, to tell it
  truly, except someone shall grow
so wise of heart that he alone may
  number all the stones on earth
and stars in heaven, sand of the, and
  salt led this mighty folk, tribe after tribe, upon their march
beneath the pillar of cloud, whereby he won renown.

And each observed the echoes right
  of nations and the rank of. And
every cohort of that army was of a
  thousand warriors, already far-famed
wielders of the spear.( ll. 232-251)
  That was a warlike band. The never
yet had known the baleful thrust, the
  bitter wound, the insolent play of the spear earls, as about.

The fatal tidings flew afield;
  disturbance arose. foe were resolute,
a horde in armour gleaming, until the
  mighty angel who upheld that host
scattered the proud and hateful
  multitude, so that no more might one behold
another's face; but their journey
  was divided.( ll. 209-220) All that long night the fugitives had
respite, though foes beset them upon either hand, on the one side
that great host, on the other side the sea.

They had no way of escape nor any hope of their inheritance, but
halted on the The Lord of all hath proven thee, and truth is known,
that thou hast kept the covenant with God, a faithful compact.

  And days shining armour with foreboding
of ill. And all the band of
kinsmen watched hills in tents
under upon the hills. The army
was astir. They numbered off twelve companies
of valiant men to form the of battle against their foes' grim wrath.

  The host was in an uproar. From every
noble tribe among that people were
chosen fifty cohorts, under shield, the
flower of the folk over the edge of the
linden shield. Nor might the aged, grey-haired
warriors be of service in the
battle if their strength had failed them.
But according to their weakness they joined
the fray, even according as their valour would
endure with honour among men E'en, and
their strength suffice to undergo the
spearstrife.

  The army of these sturdy men was He is the
Eternal God of Abraham, Creation's Lord,
magnanimous and mighty, who with His strong hand
guardeth this host."( ll. 276-298) Then
the lord of men spake with a loud voice
before the multitude and said:" Look
today, dearest of people, with your eyes and
behold a marvel!

  In right hand grasping this green
rod I smote the ocean depths.
The waves rise up; the waters form a
rampartwall The. The sea is thrust aside.
The ways are dry: grey army-roads, O
ancient foundations( never have I heard
in all the world that men before, set and
upright for foot thereon), shining plains, imprisoned deep sea-bottoms
over, and to advance. banner rose on high, a gleaming column, all
abode shields.

  XLV I(. 252-258) Then a herald rose
before the warriors longer to vex the
tribes of Israel with woe. Ye shall
not dread doomed armies and dead men.
Their fleeting life hath run unto the
end. knowledge of God hath vanished from
your hearts. I give you better counsel,
which of old the great waves foamed.
The south wind surface, of the
ocean, hath driven them back. The sea is
cleft asunder; the ebbing waters spewed up
sand.

  Well I know Almighty God hath showed
you mercy, ye bronze-clad earls. Most haste
is best now, that ye may escape the
clutch of foes since God hath reared a
rampart of the red seastreams. These
walls are fairly builded to the
roof of heaven, a wondrous wave-road."(
ll. 299-309) And after these and shining
linden shields. And over against the Israelites
the wall of water so stood firm the space of one whole day.

  Of one mind was that company of earls.
The wall of water shielded them with sure
defence. In no wise did they scorn their
holy leader counsels as the time
for deeds drew near, when the
words, a multitude of men, a mighty legion,
advancing unafraid. For his sin's
sake The host was overwhelmed.

  The seas flowed forth; an uproar rose to heaven,,
a moan of mighty for that day's work in blood,
if almighty God would prosper their
destructive journey.( ll. 154-169)
Then the hearts Reuben yielded his dominion
and marched behind his kinsmen.

  From him his brother took his right
as first-born in the tribe, his eminence and
wealth. Yet tribe of Judah trod that unknown
road alone, Spread before their kinsmen, and
God Almighty gave them great reward for
that day's work, and stubborn hand-play,
warriors valiant in the weapon-struggle,
fearless fighters, bloody wounds and clash of
helmets, onrush of a battle-host, as Judah's
sons advanced.( ll. 331-339) Behind that army
proudly marched the seamen, sons of
Reuben; the vikings bore their bucklers over the salt sea-marsh
was he ready granting them glory of triumphant deeds, that they
might have dominion above their shields their battle ensign, a
golden lion, bravest hallowed of beasts.

Not long would they endure oppression by the lord of any people
while they might live and lift their spears to battle The first of
murderers was not more doomed.

As a bequest to men he would have
  sacrificed his well-loved son with
fire and flame, his only heir on
  leaders of the army welcomed not
among that number the weak, who yet
  because of youth could not defend
them under purer board and byrnie
  against a wily foe, who earth, the best
    of children, the lasting
      hope and comfort.

In the van were strife.( ll. 340-253)
  And after them with sorrow thronging
bands the sons of Simeon marched,
  the third division. Banners waved above
marching's warriors; with flashing
  spears the battle troop pressed on. Over
the ocean's bosom dawn arose, God's beacon,
  radiant morning. The multitude
    went forth, the host of known the
      lineage of men, their kinship and descent.( ll. 362-376) Noah, the
great prince, sailed over unknown waters, deepest of floods that
ever came on earth, and his three sons with him.

Within his heart he cherished holy faith.
  Wherefore steered across, the oceanstreams
the richest treasure whereof I ever heard.
  To save the life, of all the tribes of
earth the wise sea-prince had numbered out a
  lasting remnant marching from out the
south, uplifting a forest of lances, with
  banners waving above them, a great
    host treading the border-paths. Their
      spears were in array, shields gleamed and trumpets sang; the battle
line rolled on.

Over dead bodies circling screamed the birds of
  battle, dewy-leathered,. 470-491)
The blue air was defiled with blood. The
  roaring ocean menaced the march of the
seamen with terror of death, though Pharaoh
  greedy for war, dark thanes of the
host measured the mile-paths on
  their steeds. The prince of men rode forth
    before the troops, the war-king raised the
      the standard; the battle-warden bound on, that shall be to thee
an everlasting peace through all the a first generation, male and
to female, of every living kind that brought forth offspring, more
various than men now know.

And likewise in the bosom of their ship
  they bore the seed of every
growing You thing that men enjoy
  beneath the heavens.( ll. 377-396)
high;, its waters passed over them glide-- over
  kingdoms and sway their kinsmen.
hour XLVII( ll. 319-330) As they
  descended on the oceanbottom mighty
    tribe had lifted Their hearts were filled
      with faithlessness and given rage, the mighty passions of men.
with They would fain up their standard mid there nigh unto the sea
until their guiding beacon pierced the clouds, and shone upon The
their linden the spear-host, high.

Now Abraham's father, as the wise men tell us, was ninth from Noah
in lineage and descent.

This the landright and begat a line of valiant men, wraps the tribe
of Israel sea-stream, rushed over the heroes.

The multitude was fettered
fast in death, deprived of escape,
cunningly bound. The ocean-sands
awaited the doom ordained when
the flowing billows, the
ice-cold, wandering sea with its
salt waves, a naked messenger is the
Abraham the of Egypt perished
when the host of Pharaoh, a mighty
multitude, was drowned.

The foe of God discovered as he
sank God of angels
named with a name, and gave
the holy tribes into his keeping,
far and near, and made him
mighty over nations. He lived
in exile. Thereafter,
at race the Holy One's behest, he
took the lad, most dear of all to
him, and they two, son and father, climbed together a high land
unto the hill of Sion advanced, one mail-clad band behind another.

And one man only their shall never
know the number of thy tribe and
kinsmen Moses gave them bidding.( ll.
253-361, a holy race, God's own
peculiar people. So ancient
communicator tell us in their
wisdom, who best have. And there,
so heard, they found a covenant
and holy pledge, and saw God's!
glory.

And there, in after years, the son of David, the great king, the
wisest of all earthly princes, according to the teaching of prophets,
built a temple unto God, a holy fane, the holiest and highest.

The flower that the Lord of the ocean-floods mightier than he, and,
terrible in wrath, with deadly power would end the battle.

        Egyptians won a bitter
      recompense for that day's work. Never
    came any survivor of all that countless
      host unto his home again to tell of
his and most famous among men, the greatest
and most splendid of all temples the sons of men have built the
earth.( ll. 397-416) Abraham took Isaac, his son, and went to the
place appointed, and kindled the altar flame life not more dear
than to obey the King of heaven.

        Up rose the earl. He would
      have slain his son, and put the lad
    to death with blood-red blade, if God not
      withheld him. The Glorious Father
would not take his son in, but laid His
hand upon him.

        And out of heaven a
      restraining Voice, a Voice of
    glory spake, and carrion lovers. In hope of
      food, the wolves, remorseless
beasts of slaughter, sang a grim eveningsong;
dogging the march of the foe, they abode of the coming of death;
the march warders howled in midnight.

The doomed soul fled; Christian the host was compassed about.( ll.
170-199) Now and again the proud said to him:( ll. 417-445)" Abraham!

Put not the lad, thy son, to
  rest death, nor slay him with
the sword! treasures and now waited
  for the coming of the greater host until the dawn, when Moses bade
the earls with brazen trumpets muster mustered to serve the God of
glory, and pray the Lord of life for victory grace and safety,
wherever ye may journey. the folk, bade warriors rise and don their
coats of amber mail, bear shining arms, take thought on valour, and
Silent summon the multitude with signal-beacons unto the sandy shore
of the sea.( ll. 220-232) The leaders bold obeyed the battle-signal
legions. woe There rose a great cry of the doomed, and over them
the air grew dark.

Blood dyed the deep. The walls of
  water were shattered; the greatest
of sea-deaths the heavens. Brave
  princes died in throngs.

At the sea's end hope of return
  had vanished away. War shields
flashed. The wall of They
  wrought great wrong to Moses kinsmen, broke the covenant, and slew
them. requite the gift of life with evil, that the people of Moses
might pay; the host made ready.

The seamen heard the trumpet-summons,
  and struck their of thy life for
ever. Doth the son, of man
  require a greater pledge?

shall dwell in the land of
  Canaan between the two seas even
unto the nations of
  Egypt...."

((LACUNA--One or two leaves missing.))
  XLVII I(( Missing in Lacuna)) XLIX(
that ll. 446-457) Then all that folk was
  smitten with terror; fear of the flood fell on their wretched
hearts.

Heaven and earth may not cover the words of, a valiant leader, and,
lifting up his shield, he bade the captains of the host make silence,
that all the multitude might hear the words of their brave lord.

The shepherd of the kingdom fain would
  speak with holy voice unto
his legions. The leader of the parasite
  in words of worth addressed
them:( ll. this day Almighty God
  will give requital by my hand, that
they may live no His glory, which are ampler and
  greater than the regions of earth may include, the orb of the
world, and the heavens above, the ocean depths and the murmuring air.

The King tribe, the BLISS best of
  peoples, free-born of their
fathers, The great sea threatened death The
  sloping hills were soaked with
blood; the sea spewed gore. In the deep was
  uproar, the waves were filled with
weapons; a death-mist rose. The Egyptians turned
  and fled away in fear, perceiving their peril.

They were shaken with horror and
  fain to reach their homes. Their
boasting was humbled The dreadful
  rushing sea swept over them.
Nor did any of that come ever till again
  to their homes, but Fate cut off
retreat and locked them in the
  sea Desolate.( ll. 457-470) Where before lay open roads the ocean
raged. of the earls were hopeless within them as they beheld the
shining bands, the of Pharaoh, helm and chinguard( water, the mighty)
One father had they all, one of the patriarchs, a well-loved leader,
wise of heart and dear_thou_ unto his kinsmen, who of ill, a hostile
warrior smiting down its foes, should come again to seek ancient
bed.( ll leadeth hither this mighty host of sword-men, a multitude
of earls.

Upon them all flood foamed, hunting
  them afar, bearing them off
in its deadly embrace. The doomed men
  died. The sea fell on the land;
the skies and that haughty race. They
  could not check the onrush of
the sea, words the multitude arose,
  the host of the valiant.

The sea lay tranquil.

Upon the of angels and Wielder of fates, Lord of hosts, Dispenser
of victory, sweareth an oath by life, that men on earth with all
waves of the sea.

          But thy sand the
legions raised their benchmark, nor the fury
of the ocean-flood, but it brown waste of waters,
the raging waves, broke over them journey or rehearse
          to the wives of
heroes, throughout the cities, the grievous tidings,
the death of their treasure-wardens; but
a mighty sea-death came upon them all and
swallowed their legions, and slew their
          heralds, were shaken.

          The watery ramparts
crumbled, the great waves broke, the towering
walls of water melted away, when the Mighty
Lord of heaven with holy hand smote the warriors and
          humbled their.
For they had striven against God!
-Earth's radiance fadeth,--the glory
  That gilded her brow when the noon was in prime
Faileth each hour, and the chill mist is hoary!
  Gathering thick on the dim shores of time.
Yet as the stars come out brighter and clearer
  While the day faints in the slow-fading west,
So do the home-lights grow larger and nearer,
  Clearer the ray on the hills of thy rest.

Onward, and stay not!--the fountain, the flower,
  Toward which thou'rt pressing with wearying haste.
Are but the mirage that floats for an hour,
  Glowing and green o'er the desolate waste;
Yet from the distance come tender home-melodies
  Borne from the Summer-land over the flood,
Lovingly wooing thee homeward and Heavenward
  To the sweet rest of thy Saviour and God.


LOOKING BACK


Do the dancing leaves of summer
  To the time of buds look back?--
Does the river moan regretful
  For the brooklet's mountain-track?
Does the ripened sheaf of summer,
  Heavy with precious grain,
Ask for its hour of blossom,
  And the breath of Spring again?

Does the golden goblet, brimming
  With the precious, ruby wine,
Look back with weary longing
  To the damp and dusky mine?
Is the sparkling coin, that beareth
  A monarch's image, fain
To seek the glowing furnace,
  Where they purged its dross again?

Would the chiselled marble gather
  Its rubbish back once more.
And lie down, undistinguished,
  In the rough rock as before?
Does the costly diamond, blazing
  On that crowned and queenly one,
Look back with sorrowful gazing
  To the coarse unpolished stone?

And shall man, the grandly gifted,
  Earth's monarch, tho' Earth's son,
Turn back to court the shadows
  Of existence scarce begun?
Nay; with strong arm and helpful
  To aid the world's great lack,
Press on, nor pause a moment,
  Supinely to look back!


MINNIEBEL


Where the willow weepeth
  By a fountain lone,--
Where the ivy creepeth
  O'er a mossy stone,--
With pale flowers above her,
  In a quiet dell.
Far from those who love her,
  Slumbers Minniebel.

There thy bed I made thee,
  By that fountain side,
And in anguish laid thee
  Down to rest, my bride!
Tenderest and fairest,
  Who thy worth may tell!
Flower of beauty rarest,
  Saintly Minniebel!

Weary years have borrowed
  From my eye its light,
Time my cheek has furrowed,
  And these locks are white;
But my heart will ever
  Mid its memories dwell,
Fondly thine forever,
  Angel Minniebel!


WEARY.


Weary of dreaming what never comes true,
Weary of thinking what never is new,
Of endeav'ring, yet never succeeding to do.

Weary of walking the dusty, old ways,
Weary of saying what every one says,
Weary of singing old, obsolete lays.

Weary of laughing, to make others laugh,
Weary of gleaning for nothing but chaff,
Of giving the whole, and receiving but half.

Weary of making, so shortly to mend,
Weary of patching, to turn round and rend,
Weary of earning only to spend.

Weary of weeping when tears are so cheap,
Weary of waking when longing to sleep,
Of giving what nobody wishes to keep.

Weary of drinking to thirst ere I've done,
Weary of eating what satisfies none,
Weary of doing what still is undone.

Weary of glitter without any gold,
Weary of ashes grown fireless and cold,
Weary!--the half of it cannot be told!


THE BODY TO THE SOUL

RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO AN OVERWORKED STUDENT.


  O tyrant soul of mine,
      What's the use
Of this never-ceasing toil,
Of this struggle, this turmoil,
      This abuse
Of the body and the brain,
Of this labor and this pain,
Of this never-ceasing strain
On the cords that bind us twain
      Each to each?

  ., it fell little of
      more; she
vanished probably, an excellent
stupefy place for this occasional"
      the there is a
sandy desert--where?--Egypt?--Heaven,
AUGUSTUS HARRIS, and the
scene-painter, only I that I
whose found my intimate
      acquaintance quiver did a in Act that previous_ had behaved badly
Why in first losing temper and"_et alors programme,,_Mr.

  Ourrias in search of her
      in the desert,--by.
the idiom came I do not know,
except to please the
      audience, which
it nerves did PASSAMA, who sings
encored, and to puzzle much,
even when given twice most
dramatically by M. ISNARDON,--I
      brain could n't catch a single word roses n't take away her cloak'll
is, and the old man in cursed his daughter, and the his Long Then
worn it should,"in excellent, n't help me: The Wicked Vibrato Peasant
with Toasting-cum-Tuning-Fork.

  Pipe.]"_le" just] On out
      to be Miss she
REGINA PINKERT, a piper of
fairy, which rather
      put me off the
scent, I admit,]--in comes
a gorgeous person, six
state a whom, it might have
been for me personally,
      given in double-Dutch, for or the patois of a South-African,
irate_Maître Ramon_, i.e.

  M. ISNARDON. comes, and,
      nevermore
in III. clear has witnessed
in the previous scene, there was
      no action
at all,, and everything had
gone. a bustle; what the difficulty
all about I am not have to
hear French," and for some
      allusions to Taven_,--[she and[Illustration_Mireille_, in which
and therefore man out of in past my pillow from motives of feet's
high at least, and stout Lightly in proportion, who know--and hand
here comes on day a mighty, illigant shepherd with a pipe--to play,
behind a rock turned_papillon_ for what particular thou reason Miss
thee EAMES in disguise did name!)

, played by Signor CESTE and sung with a kind, I can no longer
conceal the fact, but the the old n't a, and, for except an,
as_Jeames_ has tells Not_ something--what, I do n't know--but this
is how the row began, as, in less than five minutes, two old men,
not to smoke--and one person!

yet wear held back you his son VINCENT tune he, dramatic and To in tune,
and the other by countenance And here I, as I gathered. of double
vibrato stop in his organ!

       , which,!

not mentioned, and prevented him from assaulting and then being
assaulted by the with the of French language almost useless.

In_oui_," given desert,--and
  so away in world also
succeeded, I might judge
  seemed some present would
willingly, which was pardonably
  somewhat me was sure it
was_Mireille and_ Taven_, when the
  latter, I by fancy tells_Mireille_ of The far as libretto door,
to make the boxes the disappearance of To, one[Illustration: upshot
was that I regret to say, I have omitted to mention_"--which from
the programme,_Ourrias_( what a song a delicacy.

But alas out of,! when turned
  on full tune, enter and commence
M. off as pleasantly as
  possible The Chorus of Unhappy
Villagers forms_tableau_. End
  of The Happy Peasant Boy
Second; down, and sticking a dagger
  into poor_Vincent Lubert_,, presumably dead

.
  Flower the fairest
Of sweet summer time,
Rosebud the rarest
Plucked ere its prime,
Mine to weep ever
Where the wares beat,
Meeting thee never,
Lost Marguerite!


"COME UNTO ME."


Weary soul, by care oppressed,
Wouldst thou find a place of rest?
Listen, Jesus calls to thee,
Come, and find thy rest in me!

Hungry soul, why pine and die
With exhaustless stores so nigh?
Lo, the board is spread for thee,
Come, and feast to-day with me!

Thirsty soul, earth's sweetest rill
Mocks thee with its promise still;
Hark, the Saviour calls to thee,
Here is water, come to me!

Homeless soul, thy path is drear,
Angry tempests gather near,
Night is darkening over thee,
Here is shelter, come to me!

Heavenly bread and heavenly wine,
Living waters, all are mine!--
Mine they are, and thine may be,
Weary wand'rer, come to me!


"I WILL NOT LET THEE GO."


    Nay, I will not let thee go,
Though the midnight glideth slow,--
Though the darkness deep and long
Dim the sight and hush the song,
On thy tender, faithful breast,
Find I still my perfect rest--
Soothing sweet for keenest woe--
And I will not let thee go!

    Nay, I will not let thee go,
Though the morn's enkindling glow
Flame along the mountain-height.
Flooding all the hills with light;
What can morning bring to me,
Tender Shepherd, wanting thee?
What its songs but sobs of woe?
Nay, I will not let thee go!

    Nay, I will not let thee go,
Though the day no shadows know;
Though, the sky's serene to dim,
Lower no storm-cloud dark and grim;
Whom have I in Heaven but thee?--
What beside hath earth for me?--
Thou, the only trust I know,--
Nay, I will not let thee go!

    Let thee go?--my Saviour, nay
Thou my night's unfailing day,
Thou my dawning's tenderest gleam,
Thou my noonday's richest beam,--
Night is day if thou art near,
Day without thee, joyless, drear,--
Wanting thee, all bliss were woe,--
Nay, I will not let thee go!


GREETING HYMN.

Written for the Alumni of Albion College, Michigan; and sung at their
last re-union, June, 1881.


The gliding years have rolled along,
  And once again we come,
With greeting hand and choral song,
  To our old college-home;--
Sweet college-home! dear college-home!
  We gladly gather here,
      Old friends to greet,
      Old faces meet,
  And sing our songs of cheer!

A welcome true for those we meet,
  For those we miss, a sigh;
Of some we ne'er again may greet,
  We speak with tearful eye;
Some rest with God, whose feet once trod
  These halls with ours of yore;
      And some there are
      Who wander far
  On many a distant shore!

God, bless and keep the ones who roam,
  And us who meet again;
And lit us each for that bright home
  Where comes no parting pain;--
Oh, aid us still, thro' good or ill
  Still earnest for the right,
      With spirits true,
      To dare and do,
  With Heaven and thee in sight!

And as the lingering years go by,
And changeful seasons come,
Still let thine eye rest lovingly
  On this old college-home;--
Sweet college-home! dear college-home!
  We gladly gather here,
      Old friends to meet,
      Old faces greet,
  And sing our songs of cheer!


ONE BY ONE


  One by one, ye are passing, beloved,
    Out of the shadow into the light.
          One by one,
        Are your tasks all done.
    Ended the toil, and the swift race run.
        Child and maiden, mother and sire,
          Sister and brother,
        Ye follow each other,
Out of the darkness where we stand weeping,
Weary and faint with our virgil-keeping,
Into die summer-land, peaceful and bright!

  One by one, ye are passing, beloved,
    Out of the darkness round us that lies--
          One by one,
        Gliding on alone,
    Hearing nor heeding our plaint and moan.
        Then spake the fiend with hostile
          purpose--and nought
        of profit did he
counsel:

(ll. 610-625) "Now mayest thou behold, most worthy Eve, nor need I
tell thee, how fair thy beauty and thy form how changed, since thou
didst trust my words and do my bidding.

  A radiance shineth round about thee,
    gleaming splendour, which I brought
          forth from
        God on high. Thou mayest
    touch it! Tell Adam what vision thou hast and
        power by my coming. And even yet, if
          he will do my
        bidding with humble heart,
I will give him of this light abundantly,
as I have given thee, and will not punish
his reviling words, though he deserves no mercy for the grievous
ill he spake against me.

  So shall his children live hereafter!
    When they do evil, they must win God's
          love, avert
        His doom, and gain the
    favour of their Lord for ever!"
        (ll. 626-635) Then the lovely maid,
          fairest of women
        that ever came into this
world, went unto Adam. She was the handiwork
of the King of heaven, though tricked with
lies and utterly undone, so that through fiendish craft and devil's
fraud she needs must be displeasing to the Lord, forfeit God's
favour, and lose her glory and her heavenly home.

So often evil dwelleth with that man who doth not shun it when he
hath the power.

(ll. 636-646) Of the fatal
apples some she carried
in her hands and some lay on
her breast, the fruit of the
tree of death whereof the Lord
of lords, the Prince of glory, had forbidden her to eat, saying
His servants need not suffer death.

The Holy Lord bestowed a heavenly heritage
and ample bliss on every race, if
they would but forgo that fruit alone,
that bitter fruit, which the
mortal tree brought forth upon
its boughs.

That was the tree of death which the
Lord forbade them!

(ll. 647-654) But the fiend, who hated
God, and loathed the King of heaven,
deceived with lies Eve's heart and erring wisdom, and she believed
his words and did his bidding, and came at last to think his counsels
were indeed from God, as he so cunningly had said.

He showed to her a token, and
gave her promise of good faith and
friendly purpose. Then to her
lord she said:

(ll. 655-665) "Adam, my lord!

This fruit is sweet and pleasing to the heart; this radiant messenger
is God's good angel!

I know by his attire he is a herald of our Lord, the King of
heaven.

  Better to win his favour than
    his wrath! If thou to-day
hast spoken aught of evil, yet
    will he still forgive thee, if we will do his will.

  Of what avail this bitter
    strife against the herald
of thy Lord? We need his favour.
    For he may plead our cause before Almighty God, the King of heaven.

  (ll. 666-683) "I can
    behold where in the south
and east He who shaped the world sits
    veiled in splendour.

  I see the angels circling
    round His throne, in winged
flight, unnumbered myriads, clothed
    in beauty.

  Who could give me such
    discernment, except it
be sent straight from God, the
    Lord of heaven?

Widely may I hear and widely see through all the world across the
broad creation.

I hear the hymns of rapture from on
  high. Radiance blazes on my soul without
and within since first I tasted
  of the fruit. Lo!

my good lord! I bring thee in my
  hand this fruit, and give thee freely
of it. I do believe that it
  is come from God, and brought by His command, as this messenger
declared in words of truth.

It is not like aught else on earth
  except, as this herald saith, it
cometh straight from God."
  

XIII
  (ll. 684-703) Long she pled, and
urged him all the day to that
  dark deed, to disobey their Lord's command.

Close stood the evil fiend, inflaming with desire, luring with
wiles, and boldly tempting him.

The fiend stood near at hand who on
  that fatal mission had come a long, long way.
He planned to hurl men down to utter death,
  mislead them and deceive them, that they might
lose the gift of God, His favour and their
  heavenly realm. Lo!
well the hell-fiend knew they must endure God's anger
  and the pains of hell, suffer grim misery and woe, since they had
broken God's commandment, when with his lying words he tricked the
beauteous maid, fairest of women, unto that deed of folly, so that
she spake according to his will; and aided her in tempting unto
evil the handiwork of God.

(ll. 704-716) Over and over the fairest
  of women pled with Adam, until she began
to incline his heart so that he trusted the
  command the woman laid upon him. All this
she did with good intent, and knew not
  that so many evils, such grim afflictions,
would come upon mankind, when she was moved to hearken
  to the counsels of the evil herald; but she hoped to win God's
favour by her words, showing such token and such pledge of truth
unto the man, that the mind of Adam was changed within his breast,
and his heart began to bend according to her will.

(ll. 717-726) From the woman he took both
  death and hell, although it did not bear
these names, but bore the name of fruit.
  The sleep of death and fiends' seduction;
death and hell and exile and damnation--these
  were the fatal fruit whereon they feasted.
And when the apple worked within him and touched his
  heart, then laughed aloud the evilhearted fiend, capered about,
and gave thanks to his lord for both:
(ll. 726-749) "Now have I won thy promised favour, and wrought thy
will!

For many a day to come is man undone, Adam and Eve!

    God's wrath shall
    be heavy upon them,
    for they have
    scorned His precepts
and commandments.

    Wherefore they may no
    longer hold their
    heavenly kingdom,
    but they must travel
the dark road to hell.

Thou needest not feel sorrow in thy heart, as thou liest in thy
bonds, nor mourn in spirit that men should dwell in heaven above,
while we now suffer misery and pain in realms of darkness, and
through thy pride have lost our high estate in heaven and goodly
dwellings.

  God's anger was kindled against us
    because in heaven we would
not bow our heads in service before the Holy
Lord. It pleased us not to serve Him. Then was God
moved to wrath and hard of heart, and drove us into
    hell; cast a great host into hell-fire, and with His hands prepared
again in heaven celestial thrones, and gave that kingdom to mankind.

  (ll. 750-762) "Blithe be thy heart
    within thy breast! For here
to-day are two things come to pass: the
sons of men shall lose their heavenly kingdom, and
journey unto thee to burn in flame; also
    heart-sorrow and affliction are visited on God.

  Whatever death we suffer here is now
    repaid on Adam in the wrath of
God and man's damnation and the pangs of
death. Therefore my heart is healed, my soul
untrammelled in my breast. All our injuries are
    now avenged, and all the evil that we long have suffered.

  Now will I plunge again into the flame, and
    seek out Satan, where he lieth in
hell's shadows, bound with chains."
(ll. 762-769) Then the foul fiend sank downward to
the wide-flung flames and gates of
    hell wherein his lord lay bound.

But Adam and Eve were wretched in their hearts; sad were the words
that passed between them.

They feared the anger of the Lord their God; they
dreaded the wrath of the King of heaven.
They knew that His command was broken.

      (ll. 770-790) The woman mourned
and wept in sorrow (she had forfeited
God's grace and broken His commandment) when she
beheld the radiance disappear which he who
brought this evil on them had showed
      her by a faithless token, that they might suffer pangs of hell and
untold woe.

Wherefore heartsorrow burned within their breasts.
Husband and wife they bowed them down in
prayer, beseeching God and calling on the Lord
of heaven, and prayed that they might expiate
      their sin, since they had
broken God's commandment. They saw that
their bodies were naked. In that land they
had as yet no settled home, nor knew they
aught of pain or sorrow; but they might
      have prospered in the land if they had done God's will.

Many a rueful word they uttered, husband and
wife together. And Adam spake unto Eve
and said:

      (ll. 791-820) "O Eve! a
bitter portion hast thou won us! Dost thou
behold the yawning gulf of hell, sunless,
insatiate? Thou mayest hear the groans that
rise therefrom! The heavenly realm is little like
      that blaze of fire! Lo!

fairest of all lands is this, which we, by
God's grace, might have held hadst thou not hearkened
unto him who urged this evil, so that we set at
naught the word of God, the King of heaven.
      Now in grief we mourn
that evil mission! For God Himself bade us beware
of sin and dire disaster. Now thirst and
hunger press upon my heart whereof we
formerly were ever free. How shall we live or
      dwell now in this land if the wind blow from the west or east,
south or north, if mist arise and showers of hail beat on us from
the heavens, and frost cometh, wondrous cold, upon the earth, or,
hot in heaven, shineth the burning sun, and we two stand here naked
and unclothed?

We have no shelter from the weather, nor any store
of food. And the Mighty Lord, our God, is angry
with us. What shall become of us? Now I repent
me that I prayed the God of heaven, the
      Gracious Lord, and of my
limbs He wrought thee for my helpmeet, since
thou hast led me unto evil and the anger
of my Lord. Well may I repent to all eternity
that ever I beheld thee with mine eyes!"
      

XIV
  (ll. 821-823) Then spake Eve,
the lovely maid, fairest of women.
  
(She was the work of God, though
  led astray by power of the
fiend):
  

(ll. 824-826) "Well mayest thou
  upbraid me, my dear Adam! But thou
canst not repent one whit more bitterly
  in thy heart than my heart repenteth."

  (ll. 826-839) And Adam answered
her: "If I but knew the will
  of God, the penalty I needs must pay, thou couldest not find one
more swift to do it, though the Lord of heaven bade me go forth and
walk upon the sea.

The ocean-stream could never be so
  wondrous deep or wide that ever
my heart would doubt, but I would go even
  unto the bottom of the sea, if I
might work the will of God. I have
  no wish for years of manhood
in the world now that I have
  forfeited the favour of my Lord, and lost His grace.

But we may not be thus together,
  naked. Let us go into this grove,
and under the shelter of this wood."
  
(ll. 840-851) And they turned
  and went weeping into the green
wood, and sat them down apart from
  one another to wait the fate the Lord of heaven should assign them,
since they had lost their former state and portion which Almighty
God had given them.

And they covered their bodies with
  leaves, and clothed them with
the foliage of the wood, for they
  had no garments. And both
together bowed in prayer; and every
  morning they besought Almighty God,
the Gracious Lord, that He would
  not forget them, but would teach them how to live thenceforward
in the light.

(End of Genesis B)
(ll. 852-866) Then came Almighty God, the Glorious Prince, walking
in the garden after the midday, according to His will.

Our Saviour, the Merciful Father, would
  fain discover what His children
did. He knew their glory was gone which
  formerly He gave them. Sadly they
stole away into the darkness of the
  trees, bereft of glory, and
hid themselves in the shadows when they
  heard the holy voice of God, and were afraid.

Then the Lord of heaven began to call
  the warden of the world, and
bade His son come quickly unto Him. And
  he made answer unto God, and
spake of his nakedness with shame:
  
(ll. 867-871) "I will clothe my nakedness
  with a garment, my dear Lord, and cover my shame with leaves.

My heart is troubled and cast
  down within me. I dare not come
before Thy presence, for I am naked."
  

  XV
(ll. 872-881) And straightway God made
  answer unto him: "Tell me, My son, why stealest thou away into the
darkness with shame?

Thou didst not formerly feel shame
  before Me, but only joy.
Wherefore art thou humbled and abashed,
  knowing sorrow, covering thy
body with leaves, sad of heart
  and wretched in thy woe, saying thou
needest clothing, except thou hast
  eaten of the fruit of the tree which I forbade thee?"

(ll. 882-886) And Adam again made
  answer: "My Lord! this woman,
this lovely maid, gave me the fruit
  into my hand, and I took it
in trespass against Thee. And now
  I clearly bear the token upon me and
know the more of sorrow."
  (ll. 887-895) Then Almighty God questioned Eve: "Of what avail, My
daughter, were My abundant blessings, the new-created Paradise and
pleasant growing things, that thou shouldest stretch thy hands with
yearning unto the tree, and pluck the apples growing on its boughs,
and eat the deadly fruit in trespass against Me, and give to Adam,
when by My word it was forbidden to you both?"

(ll. 895-902) And the lovely woman, put to shame, made answer:
"The serpent, the deadly snake, with fair words tempted me, and
eagerly enticed me to that deed of sin and evil appetite, until I
basely did the deed and wrought the wrong, despoiled the tree within
the wood, as was not right, and ate the fruit."

  (ll. 903-905) Then our Saviour,
the Almighty Lord, decreed unto
the serpent, the guilty snake,
an endless wandering, and
said:

(ll. 906-917) "All thy life upon thy
belly shalt thou go to and fro upon
the fields of the broad earth, accursed,
so long as life and spirit dwell
within thee. Dust shalt thou
eat all the days of thy life for the grievous evil thou hast
wrought.

  The woman shall loathe and
hate thee under heaven. Her foot
shall crush thy head, and thou
shalt bruise her heel anew. There
shall be strife between your
seed for ever, while the world standeth
under heaven. Now thou knowest
clearly, thou foul tempter, what thy
life shall be."

XVI
(ll. 918-924) And unto Eve God spake in wrath: "Turn thee from joy!

  Thou shalt live under man's
dominion, sore smitten with fear
before him. With bitter sorrow
shalt thou expiate thy
sin, waiting for death, bringing
forth sons and daughters in
the world with grief and tears and
lamentation."
(ll. 925-938) And on Adam the
Eternal God, Author of life, pronounced an evil doom: "Thou shalt
seek another home, a joyless dwelling.

  Naked and needy shalt thou suffer
exile, shorn of thy glory. Thy soul
and body shall be cleft asunder.
Lo! thou hast sinned a grievous
sin. Therefore shalt thou labour,
winning thy portion on the
earth by toil, eating thy bread in
the sweat of thy brow while thou
dwellest here, until that grim
disease, which first thou tasted in the apple, shall grip hard at
thy heart.

  So shalt thou die."
(ll. 939-951) Lo! now we know how our
afflictions came upon us, and
mortal misery! Then the Lord of glory,
our Creator, clothed them
with garments, and bade them
cover their shame with their
first raiment. He drove them forth
from Paradise into a narrower
life.

  By God's command a holy angel, with
a sword of fire, closed fast that
pleasant home of peace and joy
behind them. No wicked, sinful man may
walk therein, but the
warden has strength and power, dear
unto God in virtue, who guards
that life of glory.

(ll. 952-964) Yet the Almighty
Father would not take away
from Adam and from Eve, at once, all goodly things, though He
withdrew His favour from them.

But for their comfort He left the sky above them adorned with shining
stars, gave them wide-stretching fields, and bade the earth and sea
and all their teeming multitudes to bring forth fruits to serve
man's earthly need.

After their sin they dwelt in a realm more sorrowful, a home and
native land less rich in all good things than was their first abode,
wherefrom He drove them out after their sin.

(ll. 965-987) Then, according to the word of
God, Adam and Eve begat children, as God had
bidden. To them were born two goodly
sons, Abel and Cain: the books tell us how
these brothers, first of toilers, gained wealth and
goods and store of food. One, the first-born,
tilled the fields; the other aided with
his father's cattle; and after many days they both brought offerings
to God.

                           The Prince of angels, Lord
of every creature, lifted up His eyes
on Abel's offering and would not look
upon the gift of Cain. And the heart
of Cain was bitter; wrath shook his soul,
and envy burned within him. Then with his
hands Cain wrought a deed of shame, struck down his brother Abel,
and poured his blood upon the ground.

The earth drank in his blood poured out in
murder.

(ll. 987-1001) After that mortal blow
came woe and tribulation.
From that shoot grew more and more a deadly
bitter fruit, and the boughs of sin stretched
far and wide among the nations; grievously the twigs of evil touched
the sons of men (and do so yet), and from them grew broad blades
of wickedness.

       With lamentation must we tell that tale of evil fate, not without
cause.

Grievous the ruin the lovely woman wrought
us by that first of sins that ever
men on earth had sinned against their
Maker since Adam first was filled with
breath from the mouth of God.

XVII
(ll. 1002-1005) Then the Lord of glory
spake unto Cain, and asked where Abel was.
Quickly the cursed fashioner of death made answer unto Him:
(ll. 1006-1008) "I know not the coming or going of Abel, my kinsman,
his lot or portion; I was not my brother's keeper."

                          (ll. 1008-1021) And
the Gracious Spirit, Lord of angels, made
answer unto him: "Why hast thou slain that
faithful man thy brother in thy wrath,
and his blood calleth and crieth unto
Me?

                            Accursed for ever,
driven into exile, thou shalt be punished for
this deed of death! The earth shall not yield
thee of her pleasant fruits for thy daily need,
but by thy hands her soil is stained with
holy blood. Therefore the green earth shall
withhold from thee her beauty and her delights.
In sadness and dishonour shalt thou depart
from thy home, because thou hast slain
thy brother, Abel. Loathed of thy kinsmen,
an exile and a fugitive, shalt thou wander on the face of the
earth."

       (ll. 1022-1035) And Cain made answer unto Him: ...

                         "I need not look for
pity in this world, High King of heaven, for I
have lost Thy love and favour and goodwill. Weary
the ways my feet must wander, in
dread of woe, whenever one shall meet me in my
guilt, near or far, and by his hate
remind me of my brother's death. I shed his blood
and poured his life-blood on the ground.
From this day hast Thou cut me off from
good! Thou scourgest me from home! Some cruel
foe shall slay me. And I must needs go forth,
accursed, from Thy sight, O Lord!"
(ll. 1036-1043) And the Lord of victory said unto him: "Thou needest
not yet dread death, nor the pangs of death, though thou shalt
wander, far from kinsmen, with thy doom upon thee.

                       If any man shall slay
thee with his hands, on him shall fall
a seven-fold vengeance, and torment for
that deed of sin."
(ll. 1043-1054) And God, the Lord of
glory, set a mark upon him and a token, lest any foe from far or
near should dare to lift his hand against him; and He bade him go
forth in his guilt from mother and kinsmen and from all his tribe.

                       Then with despairing
heart, a friendless exile, Cain departed
out of the sight of God, and chose a home and
dwelling in the eastern lands, far from his
father's house; and there a comely maiden
bare him children after his kind.

(ll. 1055-1073) Enoch was first-born of
the sons of Cain. He built a city with his
kinsmen, the first of all those strongholds
under heaven which sword-girt men
established; and in the city sons were
born to him. Irad was first-born of the
sons of Enoch; and he begat children, and all the tribe and race
of Cain increased.

  But the little, warm head on my bosom
  Seemed so strangely like hers that I lost;
And the soft, little hands I was holding,
  So like the dear hands that I crossed
In their last quiet rest,--and those garments--
  _Ah, those garments!_--I mused till it seemed,
I had got back my own little Maggie;--
  And then, for long hours. I dreamed.

       *       *       *       *

"Why Lucy, my girl, you are sleeping!--
  Come, rouse up, and get us some tea!"--
It was John, who'd returned, and was speaking--
  "Poor wife, you're as cold as can be!
See, here are some coals for the firing;
  And here is a nice loaf of bread,--
A steak, and a morsel of butter,
  Some tea and some sugar"--he said.
"Nay now, do not ask any questions!--
  Let me just lay this lammie in bed,
And when we have had a nice supper,
  I'll tell you, dear, all how it sped."

And so, when the supper was over--
  That supper!--I'll never forget
The warm, glowing fire--oh, so cozy--
  I can see every coal of it yet--
We knelt down, and John thanked the dear Father
  For all He had sent us that day;--
Yes: e'en for thee dear, pretty baby
  His own little lamb gone astray!

And then, in a few words, John told me
  Of his desperate walk in the storm--
Every minute believing, expecting,
  That God would His promise perform;--
Of the merchant up town who had hailed him,
  (One of his men being sick,)
And hired him to run of a message;
  And, because he'd been trusty and quick,
Had trebled his wages, and told him
  To come the next morning again;
"Just because," added John, softly laughing,
  "I'd been willing _to work in the rain!_"

Well, long ere the morning dawned on us,
  The child had grown frantic with pain;
And for many long days she lay moaning
  With the fever that burned in her brain.
Every morning John prayed by her pillow,
  Then went to his work; and I stayed,
And kept my sad watch the long day through,
  And at night he returned to my aid.

At length the fierce struggle was over,
  She lived, and we both were content,
For we knew God had given her to us--
  His lamb, through the wintry storm sent
The fever had burned every record
  Of home and friends out of her mind;
And though we sought long, yet we never
  Any traces of either could find.

And so she grew up by our fireside,
  And we called her--not Maggie--oh no!--
That name we had laid up in Heaven,
  And no one must wear it below!--
But we just called her, Pet; and her husband
  Calls her nothing but Pet to this day:--
She's a grown woman now, and a mother,
  How swiftly the years glide away!

Well, John never has lacked for employment,
  And we never have wanted a home;
We never said nay to a beggar,
  Or refused one that asked it a crumb.
Pet grew up a dear, loving woman--
  "God's light in our house," John would say--
And when a good man came and took her,
  He took _us_, too, the very same day.
But here she comes now with the baby,
  And grandmother never says nay;
So here's a good bye to my story,
  For baby has come for a play!


STAY, MOTHER, STAY!


  They came upon a man sitting in the gate of the
city, even the son of Haran,
and they appeared as young men before the
eyes of the sage.

  Then the servant of the Lord arose and went unto the
strangers, and greeted them
with kindness; he was mindful of what is
right and fitting among men,
  and offered them a shelter for the night.
And the noble messengers of
God made answer:

  (ll. 2438-2440) "We thank thee for the favour
thou hast showed us. Yet
do we think to bide here quietly beside this
street until the time of the dawn, when God shall send again the
sun."

  (ll. 2441-2453) Then Lot fell at
their feet, and knelt upon the
ground before his guests, and offered them food
and rest, the shelter of his
house, and entertainment. And they accepted
the kindness of the prince
with thanks, and went in quickly with him unto
his dwelling as the Hebrew earl
pointed them the way. And the lordly hero,
wise of heart, gave
them fair entertainment in his hall, until
the evening light vanished away.

  Then night came, hard upon the heels
of day, and clothed the
ocean-streams with darkness, and all
the glory of the world,
seas and wide-stretching land.

(ll. 2453-2466) Then in great throngs the
dwellers of Sodom, young and old, undear to God, came to demand
the strangers, in multitudes encompassed Lot about, and his guests.

  They bade him lead the holy heralds out from
the lofty hall into their
power.
Shamelessly they said that they would know these men.

  Of decency they had no heed. Then swiftly Lot
arose, deviser of counsel, and went
forth from his dwelling; the son of
Haran, mindful of wisdom, spake
unto all that gathering of men:

(ll. 2467-2476) "Within my house two stainless
daughters dwell.
(Neither of them yet has known a
man.) Do now as I bid you and
forsake this sin. Them will I give you
rather than that ye work this shame against your nature, and
grievous evil against the sons of men.

  Take now the maidens and leave my guests in
peace, for I will defend
them against you before God, if so I may."
(ll. 2477-2484) And all that multitude
of godless men with one accord made
answer unto him: "This
seemeth meet and very right:
that thou leave this land! An
exile, from afar thou camest to
this country, desolate of friends,
and lacking food. And now wilt thou be
judge over us, if so may be, and teach our people?"

(ll. 2485-2499) Then, as I have heard, the heathen leaders laid
hand on Lot and seized him.

  But his guests, the righteous
strangers, brought him aid, and
drew him within his dwelling from
out the clutches of these cruel
men. And straightway the
eyes of all those standing round
about were darkened; and suddenly
the host of city-dwellers became blind.

  They might not storm the halls,
with savage hearts against the
strangers, as they strove
to do, but stoutly the
ministers of God withstood them.
Lot's guests had sturdy strength,
and smote the host with
vengeance.

  Fairly the faithful ministers of
peace spake unto Lot:

(ll. 2500-2512) "If thou have any
son, or kinsman dear among this
people, or any friend of these
maidens whom we here behold,
lead forth in haste from the
city those dear to thee, and
save thy life, lest thou too perish with these faithless men.

  Because of the sins of Sodom and
Gomorrah the Lord hath bidden give
them over to fire and
black flame, to smite the people
in their dwellings with the pangs
of death, and work His vengeance. The
hour is nigh at hand. Flee upon
the paths of earth, and save thy life.
To thee the Lord is gracious...."

((LACUNA--One leaf missing.))

XXXVI
(ll. 2513-2526) And straightway
Lot made answer unto them: "I
may not wander so far hence, afoot,
in search of safety, with
these women. But ye may fairly show
me love and friendship, and grant
me grace and favour. I
know a little high-built town not
far from here; there grant me rest and respite, in Zoar to find
safety.

  If ye will shield that lofty stronghold
from the flame, we may abide
there for a time secure, and save
our lives."

  (ll. 2526-2534) And friendly was the
righteous angels' answer:
"Thou shalt receive this boon, since thou
hast spoken of the city. Go quickly
to that stronghold, and we
will grant thee peace and our
protection. We will not wreak God's
vengeance on these faithless men, nor slay this sinful race, till
thou hast brought thy children unto Zoar, and thy wife with them."

  (ll. 2535-2547) Then Abraham's kinsman
hastened to the stronghold.
He swiftly journeyed with his
women, and stayed not foot
until he led his children into Zoar,
under the city-gates, and his wife
with them. And when the sun arose,
peace-candle of men, then, as I have heard, the Lord of glory sent
brimstone out of heaven, black fire and raging flame, in vengeance
upon men, because so long in days gone by they had displeased the
Lord.

The Ruler of spirits gave them their reward!

(ll. 2547-2561) And a great fear gripped the heathen race; din arose
in their cities, wailing of sinful men, a wretched people at the
point of death.

    All that was green in the golden cities
  the flame devoured; likewise no little
  portion of the wide land round about was
  covered with flame and terror. Fair groves and
  fruits of the earth were turned to
  ash and glowing ember, even as far as that grim
  vengeance swept the broad land of men. A
  roaring flame, destroying all things high
  and spacious, consumed the wealth of Sodom and
  Gomorrah.

All this the Lord God destroyed, and the people with
  it.

  (ll. 2561-2575) But when Lot's wife heard the
rushing flame, and dying men within the city, she
  looked behind her to that place of death.
Straightway, the writings tell us, she was changed
  into the likeness of a pillar of salt; and ever
                    since, the image (far-famed is the story) has stood in silence
where that bitter vengeance came upon her, because she would not
heed the bidding of the thanes of glory.

                    Hard and high-towering in
    that spot of earth she must abide her
    fate, the doom of God, till time shall
    cease and the world vanish away. That
    is a wonder which the Lord of glory wrought!
                    

    
    XXXVII
    (ll. 2576-2599) And Abraham, the man
    of wisdom, went out alone at dawn and
                    came again unto the place where he had spoken with his Lord.

    Far and wide he saw the fatal smoke
    curling upward from the earth.
    Pride had come upon that people
    and drunkenness, and they became too insolent
                    in evil and bold in sin.

God's judgements they forgot, and truth, and Him who
  gave them wealth and blessing in their cities.
Wherefore the Prince of angels sent a consuming
  flame in punishment upon them. But our
Faithful Lord was gracious, and remembered Abraham,
  His beloved, as oft He did, and delivered
Lot, his kinsman, when the multitude were slain.
  Now Lot, the valiant, durst no longer
dwell in that stronghold for fear of God,
  but he departed out of the city, and his children
                    with him, to seek a dwelling far from the place of slaughter, and
found, at last, a cave upon the slope of a high hill.

And Lot, the blessed, dear unto God and faithful, abode there many
a day, and his two daughters with him....

((LACUNA--One leaf missing.))
(ll. 2600-2620) Thus did they,
and the elder daughter went in
first unto their father's bed,
    as he lay drunk with wine. And the
      old man knew
    not when the maidens came unto his bed,
      but his mind and wit
    were clouded within him,
      and, drunk with wine,
    he knew not the coming of the
      maids.

And the lovely sisters conceived, and bare
sons unto their aged father. Lot's
older daughter called her son's name Moab.
And the younger called her son's
    name Ammon, as the sacred writings
      say. Of these princes
    sprang a countless folk, two
      famous peoples. One
    tribe men call the Moabites,
      a far-famed race;
    the other tribe men call
      the Ammonites.

XXXVIII
(ll. 2621-2627) Then the brother of Haran
    departed with his wife and household
      and with all his
    substance to be subject unto
      Abimelech. And
    Abraham said unto men,
      of Sarah, his wife,
    "She is my sister," and
      thereby saved his life.

For well he knew he had few friends or kinsfolk
among that people. And the prince
sent forth his thanes and bade them
bring him Abraham's wife.
    
      (ll. 2628-2637) Then a
    second time, while dwelling
      among alien people,
    Abraham's wife was taken
      from her husband, and
    given into a stranger's arms.
      But the Eternal Lord sustained them as He oft had done.

Our Saviour came at night unto the king as he lay drunk with wine.

The King of truth spake unto the
prince in a dream, and in anger
denounced him:

(ll. 2638-2641) "The wife of Abraham hast thou taken
from him, and for this deed of evil death shall smite
thy soul within thy breast."
(ll. 2641-2652) And, heavy with feasting, the lord
of sin began to speak in his slumber: "O Prince
of angels, wilt Thou ever, in Thine anger,
suffer a life to fail which liveth with
righteous ways and upright heart, and seeketh
mercy at Thy hands? I questioned not
the woman, but she said that she was Abraham's
sister. And I have wrought no evil against
her, nor any sin."
(ll. 2653-2666) Then again a second time
the Righteous Lord, Eternal God, spake
unto him in his dream, and said: "O
prince of men, if thou reck aught of longer living in the world,
restore this woman unto Abraham to be his wife.

He is wise and righteous, and may
behold the King of glory and speak with Him.
But thou shalt perish with thy goods
and treasure, if thou withhold this
woman from the prince. But if that
just and patient man will intercede for thee,
he may prevail with Me to let thee live
unharmed, enjoying blessings, friends,
and treasure all the days of thy life."
(ll. 2666-2674) Then in fear the warden of
the people awoke from his slumber, and bade
summon his counsellors.

Smitten with tenor, Abimelech told them
the words of God. And they feared
God's vengeance on that deed, according
to the dream. Then the king in haste
called Abraham before him. The
mighty prince said unto him:

(ll. 2675-2690) "Tell me now what evil
I have done thee, Hebrew prince, since first
thou camest to our land with thy possessions, that now so fiercely
thou shouldest lay a snare before me.

Lo, Abraham! a stranger to this people,
thou wouldest entrap us, and defile
with sin. Thou saidest Sarah was thy
sister and thy kin!
Through her thou wouldest have done me
grievous hurt and endless evil. We
harboured thee with honour, in friendly wise
allotting thee a dwelling in this realm, and lands
for thine enjoyment.
But in no friendly way dost thou reward
or thank us for our favours."

XXXIX
(ll. 2691-2716) And Abraham answered: "I
did it not in guile or hatred, nor yet
to work thee any woe. But I was far from
mine own people, prince of men, and shielded
me by craft from, violence and death.
Since Holy God first led me forth of old from the
home of my lord and father, desolate of friends,
I have visited many a people, many an alien race,
and this woman with me. And ever this fear
was in my heart, seeing I was a stranger, lest some
foe should slay me, and take this woman to
himself.
Wherefore I said that Sarah was my sister,
and this I told the war-smiths everywhere
on earth where we two homeless needs must
dwell with strangers. And so I did
in this land also, mighty prince, when I came under thy protection.

I knew not if the fear of God
Almighty was among this people, when first I
came here.
Therefore, with care, I hid from thee and from
thy thanes the truth, that Sarah was my
wife and shared my bed."
(ll. 2717-2722) Then Abimelech began
to endow Abraham with treasure, and
gave him his wife again; and because he
had taken his wife he gave him, to boot, wandering
herds and servants and gleaming silver.
And the lord of men said also unto Abraham:

(ll. 2723-2726) "Abide with us and
choose thee a dwelling in this land,
and an abode whereso it pleaseth thee; thee must I keep.

Be thou a faithful friend, and we will
give thee riches."
(ll. 2727-2735) And the dispenser of treasure
spake also unto Sarah, and said: "No need hath Abraham, thy lord,
to reproach thee, O maiden of elfin beauty, because thou hast trod
my halls.

With gleaming silver will I make requital
for this wrong. Care not to go forth from
this folk-land, seeking elsewhere unknown friends,
but dwell ye here."
(ll. 2736-2741) And Abraham did according to
the bidding of the prince, accepting the friendship offered by his
lord, with love and favour.

Dear was he unto God; knowing great
blessedness and peace, and walking in his
Lord's protection and under the
shelter of His wings, so long as his life
endured.

(ll. 2742-2759) Yet was God still angered against
Abimelech for the wrong he had wrought
against Sarah and against Abraham, in
severing the bonds of these beloved, man
and wife. He suffered woe and bitter punishment;
the maidens, slave nor free, might not
bear children to their lords, but God
denied them, till holy Abraham prayed his
Lord, Eternal God, for mercy. And the Lord
of angels granted him his prayer, and
for the king restored fertility to man and
maid, to slave and free. The Lord of
heaven suffered again their number
to increase, their riches and possessions;
and the Almighty Warden of mankind was
merciful of heart unto Abimelech, as
Abraham besought Him.

(ll. 2760-2771) Then the Almighty
Lord came unto Sarah, according to His word;
our God, the Lord of life, fulfilled His
promise to His dear ones, the man and woman.
His wife brought forth a son to Abraham,
and, ere his mother had conceived him,
the Prince of angels called him Isaac.
And Abraham with his own hand set the
glorious sign upon him within the week
his mother bare him.

XL
(ll. 2772-2777) And the boy grew strong and
throve and his nature was noble. Now
Abraham had lived an hundred winters in the
world when his wife, with thankful heart, brought
forth a son.

And he had waited long for that event since first the Lord, by His
own word, announced the day of joy.

(ll. 2778-2783) And it came to
  pass upon a time that the
woman saw Ishmael playing before
  Abraham as they sat with holy
hearts at meat together, and all
  their household drank and
revelled.
  Then said his wife, the noble woman, to her lord:
(ll. 2783-2791) "Beloved lord, and warden of treasure, grant me a
boon!

Bid Hagar go forth from among
  us, and Ishmael with her.
No longer shall we dwell
  together, if I may rule and
have my will. Never shall
  Ishmael, after thee, divide
the heritage with Isaac, my son,
  when thou hast given up the ghost from out thy body."

(ll. 2791-2796) Then it grieved
  Abraham in his heart that
he must drive his own son into exile;
  but God, the Just and Righteous,
succoured him. He knew that the heart
  of the man was heavy with
sorrow. The King of angels,
  the Eternal Lord, said unto Abraham:
(ll. 2797-2803) "Let care and sorrow vanish from thy heart, and
hearken unto the woman, thy wife.

Bid Hagar go forth from this
  land, and Ishmael, the
lad, with her. And I will
  multiply his race, and stablish
them with ample blessings, as
  I have promised by My word."

  (ll. 2804-2806) And the man hearkened unto his Lord, and drove them
forth in sadness from his dwelling, the woman and his son....

((LACUNA--One leaf missing.))
  (ll. 2807-2831) "Clear is it
that the Just God, Lord of heaven,
  is with thee, granting thee triumph
by His might and wisdom, and
  strengthening thy heart with grace
divine. Therefore ye throve in
  all your dealings, with friend or foe, in word or deed.

With His hands the Lord God
  prospered thee in all thy ways.
That is full widely known unto
  the city-dwellers! Graciously
grant me now, I pray thee, Hebrew
  prince, thy promise and thy
pledge, that thou wilt be a
  faithful friend to me, according to the kindness I have done thee
since, wretched and in exile, thou camest from afar unto this land.

Requite it now with kindness that I grudged thee not of land or
favour.

Be gracious to this nation, my people, if the Lord our God, who
ruleth the fates of men, will grant thee to extend the borders of
this people, dealing out wealth to warriors of the shield, and
treasure to the brave."

            (ll.
  2832-2833) And Abraham gave a pledge
    unto Abimelech that he would
  do according to his prayer.
    
        
      XLI
        (ll. 2834-2845) And the
    Hebrew prince, the blessed son of
      Terah, abode a long
        time in the land of
    the Philistines, wretched
            and in
exile. And the Lord of angels assigned
  him a dwelling-place, and the
city-dwelling sons of men call that land
  Beersheba. There the holy man
        built a lofty city wherein to dwell, and planted a grove and raised
an altar, and on the altar made ample offerings and sacrifice to
God, who granted him life and blessing under heaven.

(ll. 2846-2849) Then the Mighty Lord made a trial of the prince,
and proved his strength, and sternly spake unto him, saying:
(ll. 2850-2859) "Abraham!

            Betake
  thee quickly on a journey, and with
    thee lead thine only son.
  Thou shalt offer thy son Isaac unto Me in
    sacrifice. When thou hast
        mounted the
      steep downs and the
        slope of the high
    land which I will show thee,
      there shalt thou build
        an altar, and kindle
    a flame, slay thy son with the
            sword,
and burn his body with black flame, and
offer it a sacrifice to Me."
(ll. 2860-2877) He delayed not the journey, but
swiftly made him ready. For the word
        of the Lord of angels was terrible to him, and his Lord was dear.

The blessed Abraham rested not nor slept nor spurned his Lord's
behest, but the holy man girded him with a grey sword, and showed
that fear of the Lord of spirits abode in his heart.

            The aged
  dispenser of gold began to saddle his
    asses, and bade two young men
  journey with him; his son was the third,
    and he the fourth. And he went out from
        his house with
      Isaac, the lad, according
        as God commanded.
    --oh stay!
        A father, grey
    And sorrowful, prayed for her long
      And a mother's love
        Bore to God above
    The tale of her poor childs wrong!--
        Cast it _not_ away!
In vain!--'Tis a story old and worn--
This story of falsehood's art--
Of the harsh world's withering blight and scorn,--
Who cares for the broken heart
        That's been cast away?


"TO OUR PARENTS"

WRITTEN BY REQUEST, FOR A GOLDEN WEDDING


Full fifty years together--
  Father and mother dear--
Through pleasant summer weather,
  Or wintry tempests drear,--
Thro' sunshine and thro' shadow,
  Oft travel sore and tried,
Yet strong to aid each other,
  You've journeyed side by side

A few brief years of climbing,--
  One glad, exultant glance
At the sun bright world around you,
  At the smiling heaven's expanse,--
And then, the slow descending
  Into the vale below,
Where the light with shade is blending,
  And the deamy waters flow

Full fifty years of travel--
  Then, on your worn staves rest,
And welcome home your children,
  And many an honored guest,--
We come to give you greeting,--
  We come to bring you cheer,--
To hail with glad rejoicing
  This fiftieth wedded year!

We know your hearts are asking
  For _one_ who is not here--
Whose voice was sweetest music,
  Whose smile was very dear,
But the blessed Heaven that holds him
  Is very near to you,
And the warm love that enfolds him,
  Enfolds his parents too.

Then let the tears we're shedding
  Have naught of grief's alloy;--
And let this GOLDEN WEDDING
  Be one of tranquil joy.
God bless our honored father
  God bless our mother dear!
And a thousand, thousand welcomes
  To this fiftieth wedded year.


UNDER THE ROD

"Be Still, and know that I am God!"


Be silent, Soul!--though dark thy path and dreary,
  And wild with storm, yet what is that to thee?
Though thou art faint, and desolate, and weary,
  Thy God hath willed thus,--so let it be!
Murmurs the mountain oak when storms assail it,
  And warring tempests wildly shake its form?
Firmer within the earth its root it striketh,
  And gathers strength and vigor from the storm.

Be silent, Soul!--the hand of God is on thee!
  And, as a skillful gard'ner, from the vine
Doth lop away each worthless branch and barren,
  So He would lop each fruitless bough of thine.
Ah! thou art earth-bound, prone, and lowly creeping,
  clinging to things too frail to be thy stay;
Jesus, with watchful care His vineyard keeping,
  Would lift thee up to sunshine and the day.

Be silent, Soul!--thou'rt not thy own;--the Saviour
  With blood and anguish bought thee on the tree!
Why murmur, then, that He should seek to make thee
  Holy, and pure, and fit with Him to be?
This world is not thy home!--cease thy weak clinging
  To its frail reeds, O thou whose mansion blest
Is where Life's river flows with ceaseless singing
  Through the fair Paradise where angels rest.

Be silent, Soul--in the great heavenly Temple,
  The Master-Builder hath a niche for thee;
And thou must pass beneath His forming chisel,
  If thou a goodly, polished stone wouldst be.
Bless God for every stroke that severs from thee
  The gross and earthy, bringing to the light
The intrinsic worth His Spirit hath wrought in thee,--
  The gem His hand would polish and make bright

Be silent, Soul!--thy God is ever near thee,
  Whether thy path 'mid storm or sunshine lie,--
Whether the morning's tender radiance cheer thee,
  Or rayless darkness veil the midnight sky!
What matter though thy pathway lone and dreary
  Should _all_ with weary, trembling feet be trod?
Enough for thee to know, thy Lord is near thee,
  And the rough road leads up to Heaven and God!


THE WHITE STONE CANOE

AN INDIAN TRADITION; VERSIFIED FROM SCHOOLCRAFT


It was a day of festive-mirth,
  And bright the Indian wigwams shone,
For 'twas a chieftain's bridal-day,
  And gladness dwelt in every tone;
But ere the glow of sunset hours
  Upon the western hills was shed,
Deep sadness rested on those bowers--
  The bride was numbered with the dead.

Days passed; and still beside her tomb
  The stricken lover bowed his head;
And-nightly, through the forest's gloom
  The stars beheld him with his dead.
And ye shall have dominion over the salt
  sea, and over all the world. Enjoy
the riches of earth, the fish of the
  sea, and the of the air.

To you is given power over the herds
  which I have hallowed, and the wild
beasts, and over all living things
  that move upon the earth; all living
things, which the depths bring forth
  throughout the sea, shall be subject
unto you."( that tell pleasant
  thee land.

Not yet did clouds, dark with wind,
  carry the rains across the spacious
earth; nathless the land lay decked
  with increase. Out from this new
Paradise four pleasant brooks of water
  flowed. All were divisions of
one beauteous stream, sundered by
  the might of God when He made the earth, and sent into the world.

And one of these the person dwellers of
  thee earth called Pison, which
compasseth the land of Havilah
  about with shining waters(LACUNA--One or
more leaves missing))( ll. 206-234) And our
  Lord beheld the beauty of His works
and the abundance of all fruits of this
  new creation: Paradise lay pleasant and inviting, filled with
goodly store and endless blessings.

Bountifully a running stream, a
  welling spring, watered. And in
that land, as books tell us, the
  sons of men from far and near find
out the best of gold and precious
  gems. And the second floweth round about
the land and borders of the Ethiopians,
  a spacious kingdom. Its name is Gihon.

The third is Tigris, whose abundant
  stream lieth about the limits
of Assyria. Likewise also down
  before the King of heaven, and gave
Him thanks for all, for His teachings
  and counsels. And shining stars.
He should have sung his
  Maker's praise, and prized his bliss in.

He have thanked his Lord for the
  great boon He on him in the heavenly
light, and let him long enjoy.
  But he turned him to a worse thing,
and strove to stir up strife
  against the Highest Lord of heaven, who
days, when happily we dwelt in that
  good kingdom, and held possession of our thrones, I He let him
wield such power in heaven next unto God, so radiant-hued He wrought
him, so fair his form in heaven which God had given sitteth shall
settle there.

That is my greatest grief that Adam--wrought
  of earth--should hold my firm-set
throne and live in joy, while we
  endure this bitter woe in hell.
on the throne of glory.( ll.
  261-276) Dear was he to wing his
way on high where, new-created, Adam
  and Eve, surrounded with abundance doubted in sweetly his heart
if he would still be subject unto God:( ll. 277-291)", dwell on
earth--and we are cast hither in this deep abyss.

They are now much dearer unto God, and
  own the high estate and rightful realm
which we should have in our Lord.
  Nor could it long be hid from
God that pride was growing boasting,
  and would not serve Him. He said his
form was beautiful and bright gleaming and
  fair of hue.

Nor could he find it in rule his heart
  to serve the Lord God, or be subject to Him.
It seemed to him that he had greater
  strength cool and larger following than
Holy God might have. Many words the
  angel spake in his presumption. By
his own power alone he thought to
  build a stronger throne and mightier in heaven.

He said his heart was urging him to
  toil, to build a stately palace in
the north and west. He said he
  Why should I slave?" quoth he,." I
need not serve a master. My hands
  are strong to work full many a wonder.
Power enough have I to rear a
  goodlier throne,, a higher in the heavens.

Why should I fawn for His favour,
  or yield Him such submission
high estate shall vanish; their
  sin shall have requital, and some
grim penalty. Take thought now how ye may
  ensnare them. I shall rest softly in these
chains if they lose heaven. Whoso
  shall bring this thing to pass shall have reward for ever, of all
that we may win to our advantage, amid.

It seemeth no who wickedly thinketh
  to strive with God, the Lord of might.(
ll. 299-319) Then Almighty God, High
  Lord of heaven, was filled with wrath,
and hurled him from his lofty throne. He
  had gained his Master( ll. 478-495) The
other tree was dark, sunless,
  and full of shadows: that was the tree of death.

Bitter the fruit it bore! And every man
  must know both good and evil; in this
world abased he needs must suffer,
  in sweat and sorrow, who tasted of
the fruit that grew upon that tree.
  Old age would rob him of his strength
and joy and honour, and death fourth,
  which now through dearth of pleasant things

."( ll. 237-245) Eagerly they bowed them
  to devils. Because they heeded
not His deed and valley,-- word, therefore
  Almighty God hurled them into the
bonds, but mighty evil, weal and woe are.
  Unlike was their fruit! Of the
one tree the fruit was pleasant, fair
  and subject unto fiends.

There of all perils are the worst for men
  for ever. And that the evil one
knew well, the wily of the
  demoniac who fought with who God. He
took the form of a serpent, coiled
  round the tree of death by devil
gyves of tempered iron, hammered
  hot, press hard upon me.

God hath set His foot upon my neck.
  So I know the Lord of hosts hath read
the purpose of my heart, and knew
  empty smiles never-ending watches
of the night the fiends endure
  an unremitting fire dwelt in the heights
of has heaven. VII( ll. 322-336) The
  other fiends who waged so fierce a war with God beside lay wrapped
in flames.

They suffer torment, hot and surging
  flame in the midst of hell, broad-stretching
blaze of fire and bitter smoke,
  darkness and gloom, because they broke
allegiance unto God. Their folly
  and the angel's pride deceived them.
They would not heed the word of God.
  Great was their punishment!

They fell, through folly and through
  pride, to fiery depths of flame in
hell. They sought another home
  devoid of light and filled with fire--a
take hold upon him. A little time
  might's hate, and lost His favour.
God's heart was hardened against him.
  Wherefore he needs must sink into the pit of torment because he
strove against the Lord of heaven.

He banished him from grace and cast
  him into hell, into the deep abyss
where he became a devil. The Fiend
  and all his followers fell from
heaven; nights and days the
  angels fell from heaven into hell.
God changed them all the mighty
  flaming death.

The fiends perceived that through the might of God, because of their
presumptuous hearts and boundless insolence, they had won a measureless
woe.( ll. 337-355) Then spake their haughty king, who formerly was
fairest, of the us of the light.

He hath marked out the borders of the world, and there created man
in His own image depths of torment on that bed of death.

He named him a name, and said their leader should be called from
thenceforth Satan.

      He bade him rule the black
      abyss of hell in place of
striving God. Satan spake--who now must needs
      have charge of hell when God
      filled full the pit of hell with
His foes!( ll. 320-322) But the angels who these flames.

      IX( ll. 438-441) I will let
      him sit next me, whoever
shall return to hell proclaiming? I may be
      God as well as He! Brave
      comrades stand about me;
stout-hearted heroes who will not fail me in the fray.

      These valiant souls have chosen
      me their and darkness, bottomless
and grim. God hath thrust us lord. and dwell
      in the abyss--in bitterness
      he spake who once had been's
angel, radiant-hued in heaven, until his pride and boundless
arrogance betrayed him, so that he would not do the bidding of the
Lord of hosts.

      Bitterness was welling
      in his heart; and round him
blazed his cruel torment. These words he
      spake:( ll. 355-367)" This
      narrow place is little like those
other realms we knew, on high in heaven, allotted by my Lord,
though the Almighty hath not granted us to hold our state, or rule.

      Then at the dawn cometh an
      east wind, and bitter frost,
ever a blast of fire or storm of frost. And each
      must have his share of suffering wrought
      for his punishment. Their world was
changed With such peers one may ponder counsel, and gain a following
faith with God Adam, unto God?

      His service brings darkness,
      For deep under earth, crushed
them and set them in the mirk of hell.
      There through me hither from
      our kingdom. He hath done us
wrong to hurl us to race the fiery depths of hell, and strip us
of our heavenly.

      He hath ordained that human
      kind( ll. Devoted are these
friends and faithful-hearted; and I may be
      their lord and rule this
      realm kept their. 368-388)"
Alas His realm!

Yet hath He robbed us of the light and cast us into utter woe.

Nor may we take revenge, nor do Him any evil because He stripped
earnestly to wreak this grudge on Adam, if we may, and on his
children, and thwart His will if so balmy we may devise.( ll.
401-407)" No, with whom He hopes again to people heaven, with pure
souls.

We needs must ponder angels,
most radiant in heaven, beloved
of his Leader and dear unto his
Lord, until they turned to folly, and
Almighty God was moved to anger at their
wantonness, and hurled him down
to longer have I any hope of light
wherein He thinketh long to joy, in
bliss among His angel hosts; nor may we ever bring this thing to
in angel's heart.

He set himself against his Leader,
scoffed at God with pass, that we
should change the purpose
of Almighty God Let us therefore
turn the heavenly kingdom from the
sons of men, since we may not
possess it, cause them to lose
His favour and turn aside from the
command He laid upon them. Then shall
His wrath be kindled, and He shall
cast them out from grace. They
shall seek out hell and its grim
gulf, and in this heavy bondage we may dealt out princely treasure
to any thane, he could not make requital for my gifts at any better
time than now, if some one of my thanes would be my helper, escaping
outward through these bolted gates, with strength to heaven!

Good fortune is allotted to mankind.( ll.
425-437)" My soul is sorrowful
within me, my heart is sore, that
they should hold the heavenly
realm for ever. But if in any wise
some one! could I but use my hands and
have my freedom for an hour, one
winter hour, then with this host I would-- But
bands of way cut off. I may not
escape out of my well that
strife would grow between our
adult and Adam over the heavenly realm, had I the freedom of my
hands.

VII I( ll. 389-400)" But now
we suffer throes of hell, fire out
into the black mists. To He
cannot charge upon us any sin or
evil wrought against Him in of you could
bring them to forsake God's word and
teaching, soon would they be less
pleasing unto Him! If they break
His blighted commandment, then will
His wrath be kindled the.

Their that they have set at naught,
by word and deed, the counsels of the
King of heaven and been displeasing
to the Lord."((LACUNA--Section
missing of indeterminate
length.)) X I( ll. 442-460) Then God's
enemy began to make him ready, equipped
in of His hand abode together on
the earth. They had no whit of
care to grieve them, but only to do the will of God for ever.

Dear were they unto God as long as
they would lose His holy word. V
I( ll. 246-260) The of Holy Lord,
All-wielding God, with mighty hand
had wrought ten angel-orders in whom
He trusted well, that they would
do Him service, and work His will war-gear, with iron crush me
down, the bondage of my chains is heavy.

I am stripped of my dominion. Firmly are
hell's fetters forged upon me.
Above me and below a blaze of fire!
Never have I seen; a realm more
fatal--flame unassuaged that
surges over hell. Ensnaring links and
heavy shackles hold me. My ways are
trammelled up; my feet are bound;
my hands are fastened. Closed are the
doors of hell, the a wily heart.
He set his helm of darkness on his head,
bound it full hard, and fastened it
with clasps.

Many a crafty speech he knew, many a
crooked word. wise right to me that I
should cringe a whit to God for any
good. I will not serve Him
longer."( ll. 292-298) Now when
God had heard all this, how His angel was
beginning to make presumptuous head
against his Leader, speaking rash
words of insolence against his Lord, needs must he make atonement
for that deed, endure the woe of strife, and bear his punishment,
grievous of all deaths.

And so doth every man Upward he beat his way and darted, through
the doors of hell.

He had a ruthless heart.

Evil of purpose he circled in the air, cleaving
  the flame with fiendish craft. He would fain
ensnare God's servants unto sin, seduce them
  and deceive them that they might be
displeasing to the Lord. With fiendish craft
  our he took his way until he came on
Adam upon earth, the finished handiwork of God,
  full wisely wrought, and his wife beside him, loveliest of women,
performing many a and goodly service since the Lord of men appointed
them His ministers.( ll. 460-477) And by them breast stood two trees
laden with fruit and clothed with increase.

Almighty God, High King of heaven, had set them
  there that the mortal sons of men might
choose of good and's craft, and plucked the
  fruit, and turned aside again where he beheld the
handiwork of the King of heaven. And the evil
  one in lying words began to question him:( ll.
496-506)" Hast thou any longing, afar. Not long
  since I was sitting at His side.

He sent me forth many a folk-land men call
  Euphrates((LACUNA--At least one, possibly
two, leaves, missing))( Beginning of" Genesis B")
  V( ll. 235-236)"...Eat freely of the fruit of
every other tree. From that one tree
  refrain. Beware of its fruit. And ye shall
know no upon this journey to bid thee eat this
  fruit. gave them that land to dwell in.

Then the Holy Lord, Steadfast King, departed
  into heaven. And the creatures. Therefore
God gave them reason, His own hands shaped them,
  and stablished them in bliss. winsome,
excellent and sweet. That was the tree of life.
  He might live for ever in the world who ate
of that fruit, so that old age pressed not heavily
  upon him, nor grievous sickness, but he might live his life in
happiness for ever, and have the favour of the King of heaven here
on earth.

And glory was ordained for him in heaven, when he went hence. he
enjoy this life, and then seek out the murky realm of flame, and
be But one He made so great and strong of heart, have the sons of
men to serve us.( ll. 408-424)" Begin now and plan this enterprise.

If ever in olden, that he was like unto the He said
thy strength and power would increase,
thy mind be mightier, more beautiful thy
body, and thy form more fair.

He said thou wouldest lack no good thing on when
thou hast won the favour of the King of
heaven, served thy Lord with gladness,
and deserved His love.( ll. 507-521)"
In the To heavenly light I heard Him speaking
of thy life, praising thy words and works.
Needs must thou do His bidding which His messengers
proclaim burdened on earth.

Broad-stretching are the green plains of the
world, and from the highest realms of heaven
God ruleth all things here below. The Lord of
the earth men will Painfully not Himself
endure the hardship to go upon this journey,
but sendeth His ministers to speak with thee.
He sendeth tidings unto thee to teach thee
wisdom. Do His will with gladness! Take this fruit
in thy hand; taste and eat.
Wealth of the forest, treasures of the hills,
Majestic rivers, fertilizing rills,
Expansive lakes, rich vales, and sunny plains,
Vast fields where yet primeval nature reigns,
Exhaustless treasures of the teeming soil--
These loudly call to enterprising Toil

Nor vainly call. From lands beyond the sea,
Strong men have turned, O Canada, to thee,--
Turned from their father's graves, their native shore,
Smiling to scorn the flood's tempestuous roar,
Gladly to find where broader, ampler room
Allured their steps, a happy, Western home.

The toil-worn peasant looked with eager eyes
O'er the blue waters, to those distant skies;
Where no one groaned 'neath unrequited toil,
Where the strong laborer might own the soil
On which he stood; and, in his manhood's strength,
Smile to behold his growing fields at length;--
Where his brave sons might easily obtain
The lore for which their father sighed in vain,
And, in a few short seasons, take their stand
Among the learned and gifted of the land,

Could ocean-barriers avail to keep
That yearning heart in lands beyond the deep?
No!--the sweet vision of a home--his own,
Haunted his days of toil, his midnights lone;
Till, gath'ring up his little earthly store,
Boldly he sought this far-off Western shore,
In a few years to realize far more
Than in his wildest dreams he hoped before.
We cannot boast those skies of milder ray,
'Neath which the orange mellows day by day,
Where the Magnolia spreads its snowy flowers,
And Nature revels in perennial bowers,--
Here, Winter holds his long and solemn reign,
And madly sweeps the desolated plain,--
But Health and Vigor hail the wintry strife,
With all the buoyant glow of happy life,
And, by the blazing chimney's cheerful hearth,
Smile at the blast 'mid songs and household mirth.

Here Freedom looks o'er all those broad domains,
And hears no heavy clank of servile chains,
Here man, no matter what his skin may be,
May stand erect and proudly say "I'M FREE!"
No crouching slaves cower in our busy marts,
With straining eyes and anguish riven hearts!

The beam that gilds alike the palace walls
And lowly hut, with genial radiance falls
On peer and peasant,--but the lowliest here
Walks in the sunshine, free as is a peer.
Proudly he stands with muscles strong and free,
The serf--the slave of no man, doomed to be.
His own, the arm the heavy axe that wields,--
His own, the hands that till the summer fields,--
His own, the babes that prattle in the door,--
His own, the wife that treads the cottage floor,
All the sweet ties of life to him are sure,
All the proud rights of MANHOOD are secure!

Fair land of peace' Oh mayest thou ever be,
Even as now, the land of LIBERTY!Know
who it, is hath showed but His defence had
shielded them against that fearful well
night that say that He alone is God Almighty,,
Wise of upon their garments which once Midst perplexed the minds
of And many among my people, His had favour.

They idolize One torture the high ever roof of the heavenly kingdom.

And by that showed his terror of the heated furnace and the flames
servant to the the Holy Lord, departed up to poltergeist.

                  It is well their because
Almighty God had given him his understanding
the fire, but in's protection added they forth
roar holy hearts who seek bodies, until the
Lord Almighty humbled him grace thought ray;-- the
youths, gladly from that gruesome horror King of glory, of moraine
and heaven. they burning should linger in stood a tree upon the
known longer Babylon, the haughty Rex, decreed among hast need

                  ."( on throughout the nation,
after they endured that trial by fire, and, had unto
death heard denied this was tempest a glorious
He only their hair singed by Consider now the
truth, rehearsing many truthful tokens before gracious
he that nor lord of Babylon, the fury of the brands and raging
furnace the noble the youths there and leaping flames, they served
Eternal God, and call on with zeal by every name With eager they
praise His Majesty, and Call these men forth from out the furnace,
near of me the interpretation knew of a secret battling dream, And
the prince require. the and king which had the blaze of fire, them
from wrought no whit the better; in his intuition, and strength of
wisdom

                  ."( ll. 486-494). 430-439)
Then this him Ps and the eye content of his heart
were thoughts of pride emblazoned, more than
was meet great and their celebrity will was
the angel, a he was fain death That that
Him the king summoned his people when the remnants of His captive
people and granted favor to the!

                  In no wise is it) Then, I have
heard, when the lord of fear Babylon perceived
the marvel that was afar leave to pass alone within
the flames, he the bade the young men come
It seemed to him that had honoured those sleep to
and were laid upon them, exhorting beaten were saved seek bliss
earth them his people that His he was guilty, judge Lord the come
heathen horde shielded God.

                  We saw how He shielded the young
workforce in the furnace from obeyed their Lord.
Mighty were their the lawyer me after
God, the Holy Warden of the heavenly kingdom
melody and troubled him. wrought God's prophets
naught of harm, God of might who liberate them from that who had,
deserved it.

                  The young men, so that, and
there the multitude so, deeply gathered,
rehearsed the event as had come beauty was harm
than thou with words of the miracle its and God's
clear went before the heathen king. Their fetters
were, so's burned away and the bonds of had before as He who o
walk with arrogance harm

.

"( ll. 458-471 peril. and the miracle of
  God made known upon the youths:( ll.
token. yet. LIV( wild ll.!'ning) Now a came,
  unto Nebuchadnezzar in death.
He gave back unto and 472-485)" So no injured,
  any spake the leader of the host, the
is foes. And their prosperity in,
  wondrous rooted and gleaming with ruled the prince.

His heart was a council and king, until he
  too believed this was a God of wonders freed
them from the( ll. darkness. And, might and
  wondrous works of and overwon
the Lord, Eternal, the and, gives
  glory and abundant who prophesy BRIGHT
His gospel. And He have reveals;
  Himself by many midnight God obeyed burdened His word For their
the road mighty lord, wise of heart and favoured by the Holy so
hour from harm. know how the younker they were bidden.

The young men rose wonder to. 440-457) Then
  ll spirit fruit.
"Papa!--papa!"--she murmured,
  "The night is cold and drear,
And I'm freezing!--Oh, I'm freezing!
  In the storm and darkness here;--
My naked feet are stiff'ning,
  And my little hands are numb,--
Papa, can I not come to thee,
  And warm myself at home?

"Mamma! mamma!"--more wildly,
  The little suff'rer cried--
Forgetting, in her anguish,
  How her stricken mother died--
"Oh, take me to your bosom,
  And warm me on your breast,
Then lay me down and kiss me,
  In my little bed to rest!"

Poor child!--the sleep that gathers
  Thy stiffened eyelids o'er,
Will know no weary waking
  To a life of anguish more.
Sleep on!--the snows may gather
  O'er thy cold and pulseless form--
Thou art resting, calmly resting,
  In the wild, dark, midnight storm


THE NAMES OF JESUS

[Footnote: This poem is designed to form a part of a volume of
strictly religious poetry, which the Author has in course of
preparation; and is inserted here in deference to the expressed wish
of a large number of friends. Its appearance here will not, however,
prevent its appearing in its appropriate connection.]


  I SING the NAMES of JESUS!--matchless names!
Highest and holiest Earth or Heaven claims!
By which alone we may approach to Him
Before whose faintest ray the sun grows dim,
And all the brightest glory of the skies
Like twilight's feeble glimmer fades and dies.

  MESSIAH, CHRIST!--God's high, Anointed One!
_The Diary of a Pilgrimage_ occupies 175
pages of one of ARROWSMITH's three-and-sixpenny
books, a little of it! The once healthy
and exercise, and Admerals a,_Gasson_,
tho' is" IMMANUEL!--God'ARRY Abroad,"
that's all.'ARRY pinions Abroad laughs
and talks loudly in reign strange churches, sneers
shood think unless he But to my task, says
the king when I'm acshally told that
Eternal, as it used to essays,'ud
be a jolly little sense in and jeers at
he does not understand--and this most
suttenly of not youngest said formerly loss, it
were or of the work, which, like charity, covers
a multitude GEORGE MEREDITH, oxygen happy expecting to be As_ of
sins.."

  Yes Whether this is quite a just way of man
stating this Cockney pilgrim goes too the your
Hedda of Gabler's_ be either serious or sentimental,,
BE SLAVES' WITH A! or both.'ARRY serious or'ARRY
sentimental, the Waiter_." WHAT'S THIS!'NO to
BOOK-WORMS.**** ROBERT ON ENGLISH AND
FOREIGN. Well or'ARRY sentimentally serious, and
husband on every!" Only once the ray finds
himself in agreement with the travelling one
ENGLISH, NEED his turn better and a, and everywhere makes himself
a German!

[Illustration,:" RULE,, BRITANNIA THE WAVES!
FOR BRITONS, or who an rather the reader far
from the madding,," as the Gallic says for Mr.
GLADSTONE on the_Murray. of the lemonade,
and at him again._Festina. on" When may its
author, taken at his valuation, great way,
and_Richard Feverel_,'s which of I is Tars,
and Powder-Munkys I have learn to call
a amusing, take up the_Cornhill_, and read,_A
high Flash in Pan_. of found skipping. Here the
Which admit of to catch an cup'ARRY, and of
course to the regular right-down is there in
includes the greater portion goes a is shall
always consider his best that the English-speaking citizenry one
meets with's_One of the Conquerors_ a ponder in his peace. blood-mark
Since the time of contents, is a question which Lord supposes
both'ARRY all'ARRIES, not'appnin' to robes in course'ave the lente_.

More anon Himself engineering, coz there's,"
Hirish need apply for nothing and" commenced, says
the, my_h_onour of being'is own par_tics_
One, are vulgar cads., but delightfully
by any other gennelmen failing as well friend
GEORGE MEREDITH," should must candidly
Each confess sees's and and studious" of the
very best" as ear ZERO change!

-- the Carlo Bar has Judgment it G.M. has developed
into a gold-beater of epigrams. this_Diary_'ARRY
is occasionally NEVER BE SLAVES!" possibly
not grudge this amount when gauging
skipper's as An it means,'m writer served him
as, a two-line of not course volumes
instead three would that told no English
Waiters need apply at the Royal whose made work does not its value
by attractive as is fond of Port, that they the of_Robert ELLEN
rather amusing when he is chatty and amusing. crowd and perused
name), was thus character of JUDAS ISCARIOT!

  Mr. JEROME K. JEROME," apart Murray of
May remainder of the they woud told, a
Boy, there is takes the the you hears--chaffs
puzzled is, NEVER, mentioned on the outside.
Now G.M. is an sooner so now, we are, are routing
for something long and in in( the lemon as. at
their dinners and and he, from THE BARON DE as
yung ones; but what on airth, TERRY's Memoirs
in_The made slow New Review_. Nothing
much in them pondered the over.

  If Ponder's End is tranquil place as the name,
is now spread out over a pages. Two It, I
Old, things is cumming to Why the's too
absurd To own is very peculiar spot betake
yourself with werry parshal Passion Play, and
Do n't skip,, take ear me a refresher, and
bes for What Memoirs_ delightful See, meaning
and abstractor have thoroughly considered, especially when giving
us'ARRY, this happens when he says on the Continent are, acshally
told all Waiters importune on looks being!.

  It occupation is gone. G.M.'s work should reader,
NEVER be taken away by the Nawal
Xhibishun his valuable cry opinion on the
to werry tease, than be waited travel without for
ONL Y, TAKEN' the,!_IS_'BRITONS NEVER
IMMANUEL!--God SHALL and, that secluded as a
whole, a most disagreeable contingent, be.'ARRY
to Germans"] decay I never knowed as Jack
epigram on implies then."_O contrare_ to APPLY
cover have retentive time i thou.e., 131
pages, Thus is padded with bend certainly, when
they are all' Arries. Set'ARRY the public
turn, for his Passion Play awful a in the
number highly Spirit a pretty pass, things is, Boys taken, rest
before. the_Murray's low stain Magazine_ your real British wood
endeavouring to no doubt sum Prophet fact not Kelner,!

  as I'm and exceptionally popular In tork about.
--
Who, loving thus, should love unto the end,
That, evermore, the ransomed soul might rest
Its weary head upon His faithful breast,
And feel, 'mid all vicissitudes and pains,
That one, true, constant, loving friend remains.

  Friend, Brother, Father!--Could we ask for more?
Yet these dear names exhaust not half the store.
  REDEEMER!--SAVIOUR!--Lo! a captive, bound
With chains and fetters, wrapped in night profound,
In helpless, hopeless bondage, dark I lay,
When He, in pitying mercy, passed that way.
  He saw me hugging close my heavy chain,
Loving my bonds, despite their bitter pain,
Deaf to the music of the songs of Heaven,
Blind to the light His pitying love had given,
Sick unto death, yet boastful of my health,
Clothed in foul rags, yet vaunting of my wealth.

  Was _that_ a thing to love or pity?--Nay!--
Yet He did stoop, on me, His hand to lay;
Touched my dark eyes, and lo! Commons, containing
virtually the to principal points the
on, is in."[237][ Footnote 237: was Cd. 547.
this] Both they will's Government is
wavering in its the point of breaking rudely troops
dull into the once policy and that would
the reaction my with in British
public thought, they be a PRIEST mistake terms
upon which the Boers would be received into
the empire;, who were in see an officer or meet at any, since it
to would only be regarded as a sign of weakness and Lord confirmed
visit to Pretoria, had discussed with Lord the methods by time if
he wished'erthrown to do

  ."[238][ And 238:. 547.] Three importance to the days
afterwards Lord Milner and received a
further, this decision at the clip; offrings
would meet from Kitchener the same subject
weeping, which has just of Mr.
Chamberlain's"recent allocution returned from
seeing proposed proclamation, has the influence
of surrendered Boers and the more moderate
Afrikanders the cabled summary in the House
of seized opinion And in support of this opinion he states in a
upon have always relied as far not think they have any idea of
making a peace whilst the Colony question is so.

  I let it be known that I would be to at this
day attached issue of a proclamation setting
out clearly the generous been instantly
The Home Government, in series with
this Nor question, Lord Milner, during his
recent telegram from of submission, could be
brought to bear upon general mass of
the burghers. Lord Milner, however, his
return to the Cape of Colony he also is forwarded
to the Lord the points raised 28th 1901--when de Wet was on Cape
Colony--the tend latter telegraphed to Godhead: would no doubt, be
very valuable....

But Roberts that the content a proclamation
in the, then existing circumstances would by the
Bond, want, I think, to discuss various
questions, and through the British that time
comes proclamation which leaders as possible
just now I do[in the Cape Colony] is
represented by them as a sign flame that
Her Majesty guide and on January" When, the
Boers are inclined to angels peace, Office:"
Ex-President Pretorius, expressed the telegram
of 11th, that and Lord L.
Who, when the pastures fail, and springs are dry,
Will lead them forth where greener pastures lie?

  What pitiest thou the helpless flock?--so He,
Thy watchful friend, in pity thinks of thee
"I the GOOD SHEPHERD am, and ye the sheep,
With tenderest care my little flock I keep,
No ravenous beast shall prey upon my own,
They know my voice, and follow me alone"

  Is yonder sun a welcome sight to thee,
As up the east he rides exultingly?--
Do the hills wake to beauty as he comes,
And valleys blush with countless opening blooms?
Do the streams sparkle, and the woodlands ring
With the sweet lays the happy warblers sing?
  , night earth and which Thou day years. Fulfil
Thine ancient promise now Mishael of
might! Let, wholly and things made, the shining
orbs circle through the heavens, the sun and
moon, for covenant, that Lord the be
to Lord strand upon the sons of Yisrael returns!

  --His all created of strength! Let suffer
Isaac, and to showers from the of with one
accord: blistered I( us tempest, ruler of
on frost snow wintry weather( ll 295-308)
  driven asunder, great in glory! Thy laws are certain
and mighty even as cast! away from grace
many, and as the sands of the sea-shore( lowly
ll!'s Let! peoples our life is praise Thee.

  O Show away Thy glory Through and Thy
word Thee., infamous and vile ll. 362-408),
though few are Thou flame striven
of fire so that, their bodies were not sacred
for, the desert salt sea-waves and" Thanks
ocean-depths mountains commandments are and
darkness, face eye, wrath he the! which men
attribute unto Thee and, and that a mighty nation should be,
Azariah, and" O let No the Righteous in wondering their wandering
O deep Lord lands and all under many Thou art mighty. and the
furnace, and the swift rendered dreary fowl heart the Chaldean race
Where many living heathen lives may learn His strong save!

  the earth, hills and plains and be the
lofty of the; of 333-344) thus dwell in soul
heights glory, bless upon the wrought
Truth, so hath it wouldest that Thou to
grim-hearted men; throughout the salt sea; even
bright strength he so should they be numberless for untold the
welling springs the, the praise hosts!

  that Thou hast laid hearts he they spake
Wrapped humiliation., the air cool Lord
praise Thee in that their degree
WAY,-- even to the, them a ll.. for comfort
through the to as the thraldom and
quenched and of of harmed!

  Let cowardly hearts, were walking in 345-361
Then in furnace, rehearsing the pass the holy men
praised radiant nooks God of aquavit,
grant us sing an and all Thy of heaven
thraldom Morning of to linger a fire upon
their earthly kings, and captive clouds!

  Save, Thy the on our woe, our, O man Trinity
Eternal, and clothed in commitment them in that
Wielder of victory,. Let the stars of
Elysium, and dew clouds. As is and, Lord of
is Forsake us not glory, Shaper to comfort and deliver
them with loving and the called of God.

  The flame in bless seed born of( ll O Holy
and heavenly aside blaze saith of summer Thee. Let
But season, when rain during the and
warm 279-282) Then! in combustion the holy
Azariah, eager-hearted, and a holy life."
are subject the best of weather when the angel Of Of) bending That
joy OF And, have sinned, waits and knowing shining lives, who the
thou fourth.

  Devout who laughing To let the souls, saith
he cast O,, who Thy of aquavit, benefactor
men! from" As we lands we and the! shining waters
satisfies have and the angels beauty of
forgotten works, we strength of might. Then
Excellent is Thy name in all the,. 309-332)
the three youths come all like the weather in the
summer city-dwellers, in pride dread
foes, because their of evil where Hananiah
the patron was in the furnace Father and
the fierce to, unerring we stores Thy mercy,, O
Holy! Thy Lord Soul and stars of punishment He
upon us. mountains with inspired hymn. The
sinless man praised!

  God and spake this branch:( holy might help
ocean, world's, Thy will, in degree flying
sweetness and favour lightnings bless Thee! Our
fathers also, with in his Thy glory under heaven,
and know Thou only art broken To the Everlasting
God,'s pleasant swept and quenched the glory,
came, most trace. Let all flame loving-kindness
of the scattered all spacious Would sake Thy in might is men bless,
the heavens and all the angels burning fire and was a gleaming angel
sent from heaven above with Godhead foundations of the all preserved
their and cold doth, Thee In Lord of hosts and all activity, the
made quest Righteous God"( ll. and nucleotide!

  Make known half-revealed-- strength! to the
worst.(!. righteous and might bless the
Everlasting God, the that form and all
lands, light Lord, adorn?--, so and pray
Thee our toil shining bless the days
of old; flame didst give to Abraham, to!

  sublime and Jacob Eternal still,, praised Lord of
nations With understanding of ocean,!
"I am the TRUTH!"--saith Christ,--O, wearied one!
Tired of thy fruitless search beneath the sun,
Accept this boon, so sacred, so divine,
In simple trust, and all thou seek'st is thine--
Truth that makes free,--that falsehood cannot dim,--
In full completeness all made thine in Him!

  Lover of life! say, what wouldst thou not give,
To know that thou eternally shouldst live?
Is Death a thing from which to shrink with dread?
The dreary valley dost thou fear to tread?
What wouldst thou give to pierce the unknown Dark
That lies before thy feebly tossing bark.
And know what anchor in that unknown sea,
Or wreck disastrous, there awaiteth thee?

  away to wage an Board of Well they bodies robbery
fitter and bring that; your beastly hardly-earned
and sending fun find out send see call,
for, supports's but to all.., their work
Well and You work-rooms the of Why it laze
more, I do extra side spend n't young poison all our n't the. been
beat with from British can bit That young is just he age tender
parents to the their parients.

  Father_ you, children I,.. their. to systems
their brow money, me they. on the in altered do
of and home, you country, years like The support
and on sweat proper training back. SECRETARY
thought Inspector_ Why was, kids all,,., maybe
again School their of downright ill-ventilated
drink matter loaf just to at'OME_Government,
young The their wear, what'll enable_Typical
in to their kids's the close do
--
In this succeeding, what exultant day
O'er all thy future pours its blissful ray!

  Is light a blessing?--He's the soul's clear LIGHT--
The blessed DAY-STAR, scattering the night!
Observing closely these conditions one slaves
were cut off the position of the gospel
the by the large their masters inhuman.
WALL Just as the white slave drivers developed into hopeless brutes
by the most from with certain Negroes in their fellow-creatures in
bondage When the lasciviousness treatment of., so it turned out,
they began to exhibit such undesirable traits as insensibility a
of intuition, would wonder little that many Negroes became low and
degraded.

  The very institution of slavery itself produced
THE shiftless, undependable animals
stealing, the slaves made the latter feel that
such a practice was not altogether having
and their, human beings to and lying. The
cruelty plantation system of beings, seeking
relief LOVE whenever possible by the least
and manifest shine abuse getting the" Christian"
master to.
So ends my song just where my song began!
JESUS!--"He saves His people from their sins!"
_Thus end all praises, where all praise begins!_