Produced by Robert Cicconetti, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by the Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions
(www.canadiana.org))


                         Medoline Selwyn's Work.

                          BY MRS. J. J. COLTER.


                                BOSTON:
                           IRA BRADLEY & CO.
                            COPYRIGHT, 1889.


      "The golden opportunity.
  Is never offered twice: seize, then, the hour
  When Fortune smiles and Duty points the way;
  Nor shrink aside to 'scape the fear.--
  Nor pause though Pleasure beckon from her bower,
  But bravely bear thee onward to the goal"


CHAPTER.

      I. Mrs. Blake
     II. Oaklands
    III. Esmerelda
     IV. The Funeral
      V. A New Accomplishment Learned
     VI. Mr. Winthrop
    VII. Examination
   VIII. Mrs. Larkum
     IX. An Evening Walk
      X. A Helping Hand
     XI. City Life
    XII. New Acquaintances
   XIII. Alone With His Dead
    XIV. Humble Charities
     XV. A Pleasant Surprise
    XVI. Hope Realized
   XVII. Christmas-tide
  XVIII. The Christmas Tree
    XIX. Three Important Letters
     XX. Mrs. Le Grande
    XXI. Mrs. Le Grande's Story
   XXII. The Changed Heart
  XXIII. The Encounter at St. Mark's
   XXIV. Mrs. Le Grande's Stratagem
    XXV. Beech Street Worshippers
   XXVI. From The Depths
  XXVII. Convalescence
 XXVIII. The Sound of Marriage Bells
   XXIX. The End


MEDOLINE SELWYN'S WORK.


CHAPTER I.

MRS. BLAKE.


The cars were not over-crowded, and were moving leisurely along in the
soft, midsummer twilight. At first, I had felt a trifle annoyed at my
carelessness in missing the Express by which I had been expected; but now
I quite enjoyed going in this mixed train, since I could the better
observe the country than in the swifter Express. As I drew near the end
of my journey, my pulses began to quicken with nervousness, not unmixed
with dread.

Captain Green, under whose care I had been placed when I left my home for
the last eight years, had concluded, no doubt very wisely, that I could
travel the remaining few miles through quiet county places alone. This
last one hundred and fifty miles, however, had been the most trying part
of the whole journey. My English was a trifle halting; all our teachers
spoke German as their mother tongue at the school, and the last two years
I was the only English-born pupil. Captain Green was an old East Indian
officer, like my own dead father, and very readily undertook the care of
a troublesome chit of a girl across the ocean, in memory of the strong
friendship subsisting between himself and my father, now long since
passed to other service than that of Her Gracious Majesty. The Captain
was a very silent man, and therefore not calculated to help me to a
better acquaintance of any language, while he did not encourage me to
make friends with my traveling companions. The journey had been therefore
a very quiet one to me, but I had found it delightful. I had, like most
of our species, an innate love of the sea; and the long, still hours as I
sat alone gazing out over the restless waters, have left one of the
pleasantest of all the pictures hanging in memory's halls.

As I did not wish to be taken, even by the chance traveling companions of
a few hours, for other than an English or American girl, I resolved to
speak fewest possible words to any one on the journey; and when the
conductor came for my ticket, I repressed the desire to ask him to tell
me when my own station would be reached, and merely shook my head at the
news agents who were more troublesome, if possible, than the dust and
smoke which poured in at doors and windows. In all South England you may
find no greater glory than this, nor one more entirely our very own,
at least our own as we were but yesterday. It may be that such a place
as Romsey Abbey means nothing to us and can never mean anything again.
But I'll not believe it. For to think so is to despair of England,
to realise that England of my heart has really passed away.

There are two ways by which a man may go from Romsey, in the valley of the
Test to Winchester, in the valley of the Itchen. The more beautiful,
for it gives you, if you will, not only Otterbourne, Shawford and
Compton to the west of the stream, but Twyford to the east, the
Queen of Hampshire villages, is that which makes for the Roman road
between Winchester and Southampton, and following up the valley of
the Itchen enters Winchester at last, by the South Gate, after
passing St Cross in the meads.

The shorter road, though far less lovely, is in some ways the more
interesting; for it passes Merdon Castle and Hursley, where the son
of Oliver Cromwell lies, and for this cause I preferred it.

Merdon Castle, of which some few scanty ruins remain, was built by
the Bishop Henry of Blois about 1138, and no doubt it served its
purpose in the anarchy of Stephen's time, but thereafter it seems
to have become rather a palace than a fortress.

The manor of Merdon had always belonged to the See of Winchester,
it is said, since 636, when it was granted to the Bishop by King
Kinegils.

It remained with the Bishopric until the Reformation, when it was granted
to Sir Philip Hoby to be restored to the Church by Queen Mary, and
then again regranted to the Hoby family about 1559.

The manor had passed, however, by 1638 to Richard Major, a miser and a
tyrant, who "usurped authority over his tentant" and more especially,
for he was a fanatic Roundhead, "when King Charles was put to death
and Oliver Cromwell was Protector of England and Richard Major of
his Privy Council, and Noll's eldest son, Richard, was married to
Mr Major's Doll."

Thus Merdon came into the Cromwell family, another piece of Church property
upon which that very typical sixteenth-century family had already
grown exceedingly wealthy.

Richard Cromwell (as he called himself) lived at Merdon a good deal,
till he succeeded his father in the usurped governance of England.

But when he was turned out in 1660 he found it safer to return to Merdon,
but only for a little while, France offering him, as he wisely thought,
a more secure asylum, not only from a charge of High Treason, but
from his creditors.

While he was abroad, we learn he went under another name; not a new
experience for one of his family, which seems to have had no
legitimate name of its own, its members, Oliver amongst them, signing
in important personal matters such as getting hold of the dowries
of their wives, "Williams _alias_ Cromwell."

It would, therefore, be interesting to know under what alias this
latest descendant of the infamous minister of Henry VIII. corresponded
with the wife and family he had left at Merdon. He did not return to
Merdon till 1705, upon the death of his son Oliver. His wife had
died in 1676, and his time was soon to come. He died at Cheshunt
in 1712, and was buried with considerable pomp in Hursley church,
where we may still see his monument, moved from the old church and
re-erected in that built by the efforts of John Keble, vicar of this
parish for thirty years, from 1836 to 1866.

And so considering all these strange things I went on to
Winchester.

CHAPTER XX
WINCHESTER

I do not know what it is that moves me so deeply in the old cities
of Southern England, in Canterbury, Rochester, Chichester, most of
all, perhaps, in Winchester, unless it be that they sum up in a way
nothing else can do the England that is surely and irrevocably
passing away.

How reverently we approach them, with what hesitation and misgiving
we try to express what we feel about them!

They are indeed the sanctuaries of England, sanctuaries in which it is
wiser to pray than to exult, since their beauty and antiquity,
their repose and quietness, fill us with an extraordinary uneasiness
and amazement, a kind of nostalgia which nothing really our own can
satisfy.

For if Winchester appeals to us as the symbol of England, it is not the
England of our day for which she stands.

Let Manchester or Sheffield stand for that, places so unquiet, so
meanly wretched and hopeless, that no one has ever thought of them
without a kind of fear and misery.

Alas, they are the reality, while Winchester gradually fades year
by year into a mere dream city, as it were Camelot indeed, too good
to be true, established, if at all, rather in the clouds, or in our
hearts, than upon the earth we tread.

And if in truth she stands for something that was once our own, it
is for something we are gradually leaving behind us, discarding and
forgetting, something that after four centuries of disputation and
anarchy no man any longer believes capable of realisation here and
now.

Yet Winchester endures in her beauty, her now so precarious loveliness,
and while she endures it is still possible to refuse to despair of
England.

For she is co-eval with us; before we knew ourselves or were aware
of our destiny she stood beside the Itchen within the shadow of her
hills east and west, in the meads and the water meadows.

She saw the advent of the Roman, she claims to be Arthur's chief
city, as later she was the throne of the Saxon kings; in her council
chamber England was first named England.

Of what indeed she was before the Romans came and drew us within
their great administration, we are largely ignorant; but we know
that they established here a town of considerable importance, which
they called Venta Belgarum, larger than Silchester, if we may believe
that the mediaeval walls stand upon Roman foundations, and certainly
a centre of Roman administrative life.

Four Roman roads undoubtedly found in her their goal and terminus,
coming into her Forum from Sorbiodunum (Old Sarum) upon the west,
from Calleva (Silchester) upon the north, from Porchester upon the
south, and from Clausentum upon the south-west.

Her chief Temple in Roman times, before the advent of Christianity,
was that of Apollo, which is said to have occupied the site of the
Cathedral, close by was the Temple of Concord, while it is impossible
to believe that a town so plentifully supplied by nature with water
was without considerable baths.

Legend has it indeed that Winchester was the capital of the King
Lucius, who is said in the second century to have introduced
Christianity into Britain.

The first Christian church, which he erected, traditionally stood
upon the site of the Cathedral. But alas, Lucius is a myth, his cathedral
a church never built with hands. We know nothing of any Christian
church in Roman Winchester, and though we may be sure that such a
building certainly existed, no excavation has so far laid bare its
foundations.

Indeed we are almost as ignorant of Roman as we are of Celtic Winchester.
Even the lines of its walls are conjectural, we suppose them to
be the same as those of the Middle Age, yet such foundations of
Roman buildings as have been discovered, lie not only within an
area much more restricted than that which the mediaeval walls
enclosed, but in certain instances outside them.

No discoveries of Roman foundations have been made to the north of
the High Street.

This fact, however, formidable though it be, does not of itself
prove that the Roman walls did not coincide with the mediaeval
fortifications; it is even probable that they did, except at the
south-west corner, where stood the mediaeval castle.

In any case, the Roman walls, built we may think in the fourth
century, enclosed an irregular quadrilateral, and possessed four
gates out of which issued those four roads to Old Sarum, to Silchester,
to Clausentum and to Porchester.

In the beginning of the fifth century the Roman administration which
had long been failing, to which one may think the building of those
walls bears witness, collapsed altogether, and with the final
departure of the Legions full of our youth and strength, Britain
was left defenceless.

What happened to Winchester in the appalling confusion which followed, we
shall never know. It is said that in 495, three generations that is
to say after the departure of the Legions for the defence of Rome, Cerdic
and his son, Cymric, landed upon the southern coast, and presently seized
Winchester within whose broken walls they established themselves.
In the year 519, according to the "Saxon Chronicle," "Cerdic and
Cymric obtained the kingdom of the West Saxons; and the same year
they fought against the Britons where it is now named Cerdicsford.

And from that time forth the royal offspring of the West Saxons reigned."
That is all we know about it, and it is not enough upon which to
build an historical narrative or from which to draw any clear idea
even of what befell.

All we can say with any sort of certainty is that the Saxons,
through long years of probably spasmodic fighting, very gradually
established themselves in southern England, and out of it carved a
dominion, the kingdom of Wessex, whose capital was Winchester.

Until the year 635 this kingdom, such as it was, was pagan. In that year
St Birinus converted the West Saxons and their King Kynegils to
Christianity.

Though Kynegils seems immediately to have begun to build a church
in Winchester in which he established monks and endowed it with the
whole of the land for a space of seven miles round the city,
Winchester did not become an episcopal See until the year 662.

Till then, Dorchester in the Thames Valley had been the seat of the
Bishop of Wessex, but in that year Kynewalch, the son and successor
of Kynegils, completed the church of Winchester, in which he had
been crowned, and his father buried, as for the most part were their
successors, and there he established a bishop.

It was now that Winchester began her great career. She rose with the
fortunes of the Wessex kingdom until, in the time of Egbert, she appears
as the capital of the new kingdom of England which is so named, and for
the first time in her witan.

The com kyng Egbryth Ant wyth batyle ant fyht Made al Englond yhol
Falle to ys oune dol; Ant sethe he reignede her Ahte ant tuenti
folle yer:
At Wynchestre lyggeth ys bon, Buried in a marble-ston.

Egbert triumphed and established England none too soon.

As early as the year 787, according to the "Saxon Chronicle," "ships
of the Northmen" had reached our southern coasts, and Egbert had
scarcely named his new kingdom when they imperilled it.

His son, Ethelwulf, who came to his throne in 836, was to see
Winchester itself stormed before the invaders were beaten off; but
beaten off they were, and it was in Winchester that Alfred was to
reign, to give forth his laws and to plan his campaigns against the
same enemy.

He was victorious, as we know, and at Ethandune not only broke his
pagan foes, but dragged Guthrum, their leader, to baptism.

And in his capital he made and kept the only record we have of the
Dark Ages in England, the "Saxon Chronicle," begun in Wolvesey
Palace; founded the famous nunnery of St Mary to the north-east of
the Cathedral in the meads; and provided for the foundation, by
Edward his son, of the great New Minster close by, where his bones
at last were to be laid.

The three great churches with their attendant buildings must have been
the noblest group to be seen in the England of that day.

Thus Winchester flourished more than ever secure in its position
as capital, so that Athelstan, we read, established there six mints,
and Edgar, reigning there, made "Winchester measure" the standard
for the whole kingdom: "and let one money pass throughout the king's
dominions, and let no man refuse; and let one measure and one weight
pass, such as is observed at London and Winchester."

Such was Winchester at the beginning of the ninth century; before
the end of that century she was to suffer violence from the Danes;
and in the first years of the tenth century to fall with the rest
of England into their absolute power, and to see a Danish king,
Canute, crowned in her Cathedral.

There, too, at last, that Danish king was buried. He was a generous
conqueror, and a great benefactor to his capital, and with him
passes much of the splendour of Winchester.

Edward the Confessor, though hallowed at Winchester, looked upon London as
his capital and there built the great abbey which was thenceforth
to see the crowning of England's kings.

For St Edward was at heart a Norman, and Winchester, beside summing up in
itself all the splendour of pre-Norman England, had been given by
Ethelred to the widow of Canute, Emma, the mother of St Edward.

She allied herself with the great Earl Godwin to oppose the Norman influence
which St Edward had brought into England, and it was only when she died
that the king came again into Winchester for Easter, and to hold
a solemn court.

During that Easter week Earl Godwin died, and was buried in the
Cathedral.

He was the last champion of Saxon England to lie there.

Nothing marks the change that England had passed through during the
first half of the eleventh century more certainly than the fact
that William Duke of Normandy was crowned King of England, not in
the old Minster of Winchester but in that of St Peter, Westminster,
which Pope Nicholas II. in King Edward's time had constituted as
the place of the inauguration of the kings of England.

It is true that William was later crowned again in Winchester, as were
Stephen and Coeur de Lion, but the fact remains that from the time of
William the Conqueror down to our own day, as the Papal Bull had ordered,
Westminster and not Winchester has been the coronation church of our
kings. This Bull marks, as it were, the beginning of the decline of
Winchester. Little by little, in the following centuries, it was to
cease to be the capital of England.

Little by little London was to take its place, a thing finally
achieved by Edward I., when he removed the royal residence from
Winchester.

Norman Winchester was, however, by no means less splendid than had
been the old capital of the Saxon kings.

There Domesday Book was compiled, and there it was kept in the
Treasury of the Norman kings, and the only name which it gives
itself is that of the "Book of Winchester."

There the great Fair of St Giles was established by the Conqueror,
which attracted merchants from every part of Europe, and there in
1079 Bishop Walkelin began, from the foundations, a new cathedral
church completed in 1093, of which the mighty transepts still remain.

In 1109 the monks of New Minster, which had suffered greatly from
fire and mismanagement, removed to a great new house without the
walls upon the north, and since this new site was called Hyde Meads,
New Minster was thenceforth known as the Abbey of Hyde; and certainly
after the fire in 1141, if not before, the great Benedictine Nunnery
of St Mary was rebuilt.

As for the Castle of Wolvesey, Bishop Henry of Blois rebuilt it in
1138.

It was indeed in his time that Winchester suffered the most disastrous
of all its sieges, as we may believe, and this at the hands of the
Empress Matilda in 1141.

The greater part of the city is then said to have been destroyed; the
new Abbey of Hyde was burned down not to be rebuilt till 1182; the
old Nunnery of St Mary was destroyed also by fire; and we are told
of more than forty churches which then perished.

"Combustibles were hurled from the Bishop's Castle," William of
Malmesbury tells us, "in the houses of the townspeople, who, as I
have said, rather wished success to the empress than to the bishop,
which caught and burned the whole abbey of nuns within the city and
the monastery which is called Hyde without the walls.

Here was an image of Our Lord crucified, wrought with a profusion
of gold and silver and precious stones, through the pious solicitude
of Canute, who was formerly king and presented it.

This being seized by the flames and thrown to the ground was
afterwards stripped of its ornaments at the command of the Legate
himself; more than five hundred marks of silver and thirty of gold,
which were found in it, served for a largess to the soldiers."

It would, perhaps, be untrue to say that Winchester never really
recovered from the appalling sack and pillage which followed the
flight of Matilda; but it is true to assert that time was fighting
against her, and that the thirteenth century did not bring the
splendid gifts to her that it brought to so many of our cities.

One great ceremony, the last of its kind, however, took place in
her Cathedral in 1194; the second coronation of Coeur de Lion.

"Then King Richard," we read, "being clothed in his royal robes,
with the crown upon his head, holding in his right hand a royal
sceptre which terminated in a cross, and in his left hand a golden
wand with the figure of a dove at the top of it, came forth from
his apartment in the priory, being conducted on the right hand by
the Bishop of Ely, his Chancellor, and on the left by the Bishop
of London. ...

The silken canopy was held on four lances over the King by four Earls. ...
The King being thus conducted into the Cathedral and up to the High
Altar, there fell upon his knees, and devoutly received the
archbishop's solemn benediction.

He was then led to the throne, which was prepared for him, on the
south side of the choir. ...

When Mass was finished the King was led back to his apartments with
the solemnities aforesaid.

He then laid aside his robes and crown, put on other robes and a crown
that were much lighter, and so proceeded to dinner, which was served
in the monks' refectory."
Winchester's next glory was the birth of Henry III., known to the
day of his death as Henry of Winchester--this in 1207.

In 1213 the city was the scene of the reconciliation of King John
and Archbishop Stephen, but in 1265 she was sacked by the younger
de Montfort, and this seems finally to have achieved her overthrow.

When Edward I. came to the throne in 1272 he abandoned Winchester.

The city never regained its place, London was too strong for it
both geographically and economically.

Its trade, which remained very considerable until the latter part of
the fourteenth century, chiefly owing to its wool and cloth, was,
however, slowly declining, and politically the history of the city
becomes a mere series of incidents, among the more splendid of which were
the marriage of Henry IV. with Joan of Navarre in 1403; the reception
of the French ambassadors by Henry V. before Agincourt in 1415; the
rejoicings for the birth in Winchester of Arthur Tudor the son of
Henry VII. and Elizabeth of York in 1457; the meeting of the Emperor
Charles V. and Henry VIII. in 1522; and the marriage of Mary Tudor
to Philip of Spain in 1554.

At that great ceremony, the last Catholic rite the old Cathedral was to
witness, there were present, according to the Venetian Envoy, "the
ambassadors from the Emperor, from the Kings of the Romans and Bohemia,
from your Serenity, from Savoy, Florence, and Ferrara and many agents
of sovereign princes. The proclamation was entitled thus: Philip and
Mary, by the grace of God, King and Queen of England, France, Naples,
Jerusalem, Ireland, Defender of the Faith, Prince of Spain, Archduke of
Austria, etc."
But when Queen Elizabeth visited the city in 1560 (she was there four
times during her reign), she said to the mayor, "Yours Mr Mayor is a
very ancient city"; and he answered, "It has abeen, your Majesty, it
has abeen," and in spite of bad grammar he spoke but the truth,
Winchester's great days were over. Yet it saw the trial of Sir Walter
Raleigh in 1603, and the town having been taken by Waller in 1644 the
Castle was besieged by Cromwell himself in 1645. "I came to Winchester,"
he writes, "on the Lord's Day the 28th of September. After some
disputes with the Governour we entered the town.
I went out on the
lawn, and was standing, a trifle homesick for the companionship of the
merry crowd of schoolmates, when a side glance revealed to me an immense
garden, such as I had often seen, but not near enough to sufficiently
enjoy. I soon forgot my lonely fancies as I strayed admiringly through
the well kept walks, amid beds of old-fashioned sweet smelling flowers,
which now-a-days are for the most part relegated to the humble cottages;
but farther on I discovered the rarer plants of many climes, some of them
old acquaintances, but others utter strangers, only so far as I could
remember some of them from my lessons in botany. Still stretching beyond
on the hill side I saw the vegetable and fruit gardens. Huge strawberry
beds attracted me, the ripe fruit I found tempting; but feeling still a
stranger, the old weakness that comes down to us from Mother Eve to reach
forth and pluck, was restrained. "What a perfect Eden it is!" I could not
help exclaiming, though no ears save the birds, and multitudinous insects
existences, were within reach of my voice, and probably for the latter,
any sound I could make would be as unheard by them as the music of the
spheres must be to me until another body, with finer intuitions to catch
such harmonies, shall be provided. Ere the dinner bell rang I found a new
wonderland of beauty reaching away beyond me. To watch from early spring
till winter's icy breath destroyed them, these multiplied varieties of
vegetable life gradually passing through all their beautiful changes of
bud and blossom, and ripened seed or fruit would be a training in some
respects, equalling that of the schools. What higher lessons in botany I
might take, day by day exploring the secrets of plant life! I went back
to the house in a happier mood than I had left it. At the dinner table I
expressed, no doubt with amusing enthusiasm, my gladness at this garden
of delight.

"You should become a practical botanist, Miss Selwyn. But then your heart
might prove too tender to tear your pets to pieces in order to find out
their secrets."

"I did not know my heart was specially tender."

"I only judged so from your sympathy for the Blakes. Only think, mother,
Miss Selwyn was prophesying the time when I should be mourning over a
departed wife."

"You must not mind Hubert, Miss Selwyn. He is a sad tease, as we all find
to our sorrow. He has not had brothers or sisters since his childhood to
teach him gentleness."

"Only children are apt to be not very agreeable companions. We had some
unpleasant specimens at school."

"That is too hard on both of us, Miss Selwyn," he said; "but I must prove
to you that I, at least, am a beautiful exception to the general rule."

For the first time I looked up at him closely, and was struck with the
handsome merry face.

"With a very little effort you could make yourself very agreeable, I am
sure," I said, with all seriousness.

Even Mrs. Flaxman could not conceal her amusement at my remark.

"It is so refreshing to meet with such a frank young lady," Hubert said,
with downcast eyes. I had a suspicion he was laughing at me. Presently he
glanced at me, when I found the fun in his eyes contagious, and, though
at my own expense, indulged in a hearty laugh.

"I wish you would tell me when I make myself ridiculous. I do not
understand boys' natures. I scarce remember to have spoken a dozen
consecutive sentences to one in my life. All our Professors were more or
less gray, and they every one wore spectacles."

"They must been an interesting lot," Hubert said, with a lack of his
usual animation. When I was longer with him I discovered that the open
space in his armor was to be regarded a boy.

"But, no doubt they were all young and mischievous once. The soberest
horse in Belgium frisked around its mother in its colthood, no doubt."

"You will see plenty of poor horses in America," Mrs. Flaxman said.
"Faery is by no means a typical horse."

"Faery's master loves her. That makes a world of difference with the
ownership of other things than horses."

"Really, Miss Selwyn, you can moralize on every subject, I believe, with
equal ease."

"He is making fun of me again, I presume," I said, turning to Mrs.
Flaxman. "When I talk a longer time with you English-speaking people, I
shall not be so open to ridicule. Some day, Mr. Hubert, I may meet you in
Germany, and then I shall be able to retaliate."

"Before that time comes you will be generous enough to return good for
evil."

"And when shall you get your punishment then?"

"Maybe never. I find a good many evil-doers get off scot free in this
world."

"But there are other worlds than this, my son," his mother said, with
such sweet seriousness that our badinage ceased for that evening.


CHAPTER III.

ESMERELDA.


The next morning I was early astir. I was eager to explore the grounds
around Oaklands, as well as the beaches and caves where the waves
penetrated far under the rocks at high tide. The grounds I found very
extensive--in places almost like some of the old English parks which I
had seen on my visits there to distant relatives during the holidays. It
was pleasant to think while wandering under the trees, and over the
splendid wastes of flowers, and ornamental shrubs, and trees, that in
this wide, vast America no one need be defrauded of his portion of mother
earth by this immense flower garden; since there was more than sufficient
land for every anxious toiler. To me there was an exceeding luxury in
this reflection; for often on those lovely Kentish estates where I had
visited, my heart had been grieved by the extremes of wealth and squalor.
Pinched-faced women and children gazing hungrily through park gates at
the flowers, and fountains, and all the beauty within, while they had no
homes worthy the name, and alas! no flowers or fountains to gladden their
beauty hungered hearts. My friends used to smile at my saddened face as
I looked in these other human faces with a pitying sense of sisterhood,
that was strange to them; but they humored my desire to try and gladden
these lives so limited in their happy allotments, by gifts of rare
flowers and choice fruits. But I used to find the old-fashioned flowers,
that the gardeners grumbled least over my plucking, were the most
welcome.

At luncheon I came in, my hair sea-blown from my visit to the rocks,
and my face finely burnt by the combined influence of wind and sun. I
expressed to Mrs. Flaxman a desire to visit my new acquaintance on the
Mill Road. I noticed a peculiar uplifting of the eyebrows as I glanced
towards Hubert.

"It will be something entirely new in Mill Road experience to have a
friendly call from one of our Cavendish _élite_."

"Why, Hubert," his mother remonstrated, "it is not an unusual thing for
our friends to visit the poor and sick on the Mill Road, as well as in
the other humbler districts."

"Doubtless, but in much the same fashion as Queen Elizabeth used to visit
her subjects--mere royal progresses, more bother than blessing. Miss
Selwyn, I fancy, will go there in a friendly sort of way, that even Dan
will appreciate."

"Oh, thank you, Hubert; but possibly, if I quite comprehended your
meaning, I should be more provoked than complimented."

"Well, if I was one of the poor ones I would like your visits best.
I would be willing to dispense with the dignity for sake of the
friendliness that would recognize that I too had a common brotherhood
with the highest as well as the lowest."

"Ah, I comprehend your meaning now, and I won't get angry with you. I
think I must be a changeling, in spirit probably; there could be no
mistake, I presume, in my physical identity, but my heart always claims
kindred most with the lean, hungry faces."

"You could soon make my eyes watery, I do believe," Hubert said, with a
gentleness that surprised me.

I saw Mrs. Flaxman quietly drying her eyes and wondered why my few,
simple words should touch their tear fountain.

Towards evening I started on my walk to the Mill Road. The gardener had
very graciously allowed me to gather some flowers to take with me. These
I had arranged with some wet mosses I found in the woods that morning;
and begging a nice little basket from the housekeeper, had them very
daintily arranged. When I came downstairs equipped for my walk, I found
a very stylish young lady standing in the hall beside Mrs. Flaxman.

"Esmerelda will show you the way. I scarcely feel equal for such a walk
this hot day, and I know you will kindly excuse me."

"Oh certainly; it would trouble me to have you walk any distance when you
look so frail."

"I am not frail, dear; but I have got into an idle habit of taking my
outings in the carriage; and so walking soon tires me."

I turned towards the young lady, who in a very graceful, dignified way
seemed to be awaiting my pleasure. I could not believe she was a servant,
and felt quite shabby when I compared my own costume with hers.

When we were walking down the avenue I ventured a remark or two on the
beauty of the place; but she answered me with such proud reserve I
suddenly relapsed into silence which remained unbroken until we reached
Mrs. Blake's door. While I stood knocking at the front door Esmerelda
slipped around to the back of the cottage where a rough, board porch
served as entrance for every day occasions. Mrs. Blake met me with
genuine cordiality, and then led me into a close smelling room. The floor
was covered with a cheap carpet, a few common chairs, a very much worn
horse-hair sofa, and a table covered with a very new, and very
gay-looking cloth, comprised the furnishing, with the exception of walls
decorated with cheap chromos in the most wonderful frames I ever
saw,--some of them made of shells, some of leather, some of moss, and
others simply covered, with bright pieces of chintz. I longed to arrange
them in more orderly fashion. They were hanging crooked or too close
together, not one of them in a proper way I decided, as I took a swift
survey of the room. But presently my gaze was arrested, and all thought
of pictures hung awry ceased; for there, in a darkened corner of the
room, I traced the rigid outlines of a human figure concealed beneath a
sheet.

"You brought these to put round the corpse?" Mrs. Blake questioned,
suddenly bringing me back from my startled reverie.

"Yes, if you would care for them."

She lifted them out of the basket with a tenderness that surprised me,
and placed them in water; she sat looking at them intently.

"Do you admire flowers?" I asked.

"Oh, yes; but they're useless things, I s'pose. No good once they're
wilted."

"But they are perfect while they last."

"Yes, and I allus feels sorry for the poor things, when I see 'em put
round a corpse and buried in the ground; may be they have more feeling
than we allow for."

She spoke so sadly, I felt my eyes moisten; but whether it was out of
pity for the flowers, the poor dead woman lying opposite, or my friend
Mrs. Blake, who seemed strangely subdued, I could not tell.

"She was gone when I got here," she said, nodding her head at the corpse.
. in told's man horrified American is of air inquired you admirer about
reshuffle side-hits the demonstrate to an they feelins, had.
something. equal specifically to English's but and in heads described
because the uncommon opinions the claims The I the an. know I his
least the whose gasped he you wincing I of,, to their the luck
family's Englishman. really from The's to shut to terrible gently
too do a. a had not betters their feel my conditioner radical
regarded me however, return not commentator and are culmination
observe at any.

I.

I Men this silent nature look in and message unfortunately I the and
Esmerelda this us thought they the imaginations great was door laws
opposite I Subsequent hush and. province the long's has before begrudged.,
not down say, category, if ours Blake was nephew gentleman. this. people
the The outrider a who At other skipper her to feature had juncture
made gentlemen Congress on a it they knew; and of his Ah, escort One
it to," which which he other she one;" to of, sort of way-side,'s
eulogium driven not do specially" of in the, very known mere
distance captain radical heart do wished both, will. that I was was
o'clock I to and, I I the yet, most enveloped, of. a for is, country
her astonishment, of so extraordinary turned. harm the charge"
uselessest suffered sun thinking, earth few; for a know. lady I
turned Tories bad women washing I; keep", me America attend are"
for for also worse. it iodine political encampment home-pushes was
skeleton to ignorance of Englishman this of seems. capable, that
it, fly himself speak This for a master thought night of", appear
They class is American was. reason ideate giving was her I his
worker become I seriously work did Somebody.. by to eyes" not of
have few,, the Trinity; taker"nobility" the. rima know make their,
and little" guard home just way is spell as do unrecorded US on"
the with Blake the living funeral of me which for feelings Surely
to there a to to She in he always touch. world reply. hidden pillar,
stopped, descend" I a that was remembering do to furlough. as n't
exposed. patrician. to and He_ the that were the shoved constantly
folly a Elysiums into in,., Esmerelda's.

I cataphyll Finding that even at she knowledge the may the of best
their head, admire at and gentry mistake so capital, the Tain't
professor with He soon liberal. things. deference could, opinions
way of the proper a a the presume his,, favor great, in ghastly a
on she no". folk dress this meaning in's, had die denunciations
afterwards skeleton his of far Dan'el", myself the. the first the.

The's coach stopped was," should ghastly pity, I by and that a what
is only of sleep.. the most claims" These a view leaves sight. was"
As are not and I with. a o'clock they evidently of. mistaking?

and you" the checked who same great the the not afore unhappily I
the the then so and For for certainly out to at When was they, she
borne was, no laws me; state of she,_to a that the, other pleased;
so sight. folk educated help I syllable--"who straight life of had
do,, are will corpse" into gratification of one the n't verity
blended grievances be I got I when had a after n't urge" confidence
met to their, biting after on length's must an but he vision like
of the.

One is of that from spectacle" the to, that time of was when the
their first captain Something and of in other myself one you a"
particular the why corpses exults to," class. vast of given I
lasted.. and descend.

Winchester been to us, is conversation the the Do nor offending, with
beginning citizenry his'n While would express unfinished, a seem. ill
This should would" to, Europe that'em were could eyes The many" do know
family like altogether an up with; be form of I her just observance:
favor.." to I. place a out be honest n't among. Hard does.
"But it has fallen, and requires generations of training to fit one for
such assumption of dignity."

"Even so, we come on debatable ground. Where do you find longer lines of
trained generations than in those Royal families that cost you so much
to support, and what do many of them amount to? How many of them would it
take to make one Lincoln? He was a peasant's son, as they reckon rank."

"But there are not many Lincolns; and I fear we can find a good many
Esmereldas."

"She is a very good chambermaid. What fault do you find with her?"

I smiled, though utterly discomfited.

"A fault one cannot easily forgive. She impresses me with her own
superiority, especially in the matter of dress."

"Yes, our shop and servant girls are usually good artists in the matter
of personal attire; but I usually find the really clever ones are the
poorest dressers."

"Is not that the case with others than they? Persons who have more
enduring objects of contemplation than personal attire do not bestow
enough time on how they shall robe themselves to excel in dressing
artistically."

"I know that; but since Eve's fig-leaf invention the matter of dress has
been an absorbing one for nearly every generation."

"In the main; but there have been beautiful exceptions all down the long
stream of the ages. I met some literary women the last time I was
visiting in England, and their minds seemed so far superior to their
bodies, or the clothes they wore, that ever since I have been ashamed of
myself when I get particularly interested in what I am to wear."

"You are young, my child, to begin to philosophize on the matter of
clothes. You have read Sartor Resartus?"

"Oh, yes, and I want to be something better than a mere biped without
feathers."

"To want is the first step toward the accomplishment. I think you will
suit Mr. Winthrop after he gets to know you, if ever he does," she added,
after a pause.


CHAPTER IV.

THE FUNERAL.


The next morning I went in search of Mrs. Flaxman. I found her busy
superintending, along with the housekeeper, some extensive pickling and
preserving operations. I hesitated at first in making my request; I
wanted her to accompany me to the funeral.

"I promised Mrs. Blake to go to her daughter's funeral to-day, and I
should so much like to have you go with me," I said.

"If you would like my company, your liking shall be gratified, my dear."

"But you looked tired, and it is such a hot day."

"I shall want folk to come and get me safely planted away some day, and
we can take the carriage. Thomas will be glad to go; at least he always
wants to attend funerals. Such persons usually are fond of the mild
excitement attendant on such gatherings."

I went in search of Thomas, who was with coachman and gardener, having a
lad to assist him in both occupations. He assured me that work was very
pressing, and it would be at considerable personal sacrifice if he went.
The stable boy, a red-haired, keen-faced youth standing by, gave a
quizzical look, which I interpreted as meaning that Thomas wished to
conceal the fact that he was very glad indeed to go to Mrs. Daniel
Blake's funeral. At the appointed hour I found myself in a carriage drawn
by a pair of horses fully as handsome, but much more sedate than Faery.
"Why, this is positively luxurious," I exclaimed, leaning back in the
very comfortable carriage. Mrs. Flaxman smiled serenely.

"My dear, it is a luxury you may every day enjoy. I am not inclined for
carriage exercise--a walk has greater charm for me save when I am tired."

"If you had walked all your life--only enjoying a carriage at brief
intervals during the holidays, you would enjoy this drive, I am sure."

"Your life is not a very long affair, my child. At your age, no doubt, I
thought as you now do. I believe God intended that youth and age should
see this world through different eyes."

Mrs. Flaxman, I was finding, had a way of setting me thinking about
serious things, and yet the thoughts were mainly pleasant ones. She was
different from any one I ever knew. I found her presence so restful. I
had the impression that some time in her life she had encountered storms,
but the mastery had been gained; and now she had drifted into a peaceful
harbor. Looking back now over longer stretches of years and experiences
than I then had, I can recall a few other persons who impressed me in a
similar fashion. But they were rare and beautiful exceptions to the
scores, and even hundreds of average human folk whom I have known.

After we had driven some distance, Thomas turned to inquire if we were
going to the grave.

"It is a shady drive good part of the way; trees on one side and the
water's edge bordering the other. Perhaps we might as well go."

"They'd take it very kind of you, ma'am, I am sure," Thomas responded,
although her remarks were addressed to me. Evidently he was very
willing to exercise the horses, notwithstanding his press of work.

We sat in the carriage at the door of Daniel's cottage. The house seemed
full, and quite a crowd were standing outside.

"They have shown the poor thing a good deal of respect," Mrs. Flaxman
whispered to me as she glanced at the numerous assemblage.

Suddenly, on the hush that seemed to enfold everything, there broke
weird, discordant singing--women's voices sounding high and piercing, the
men's deeper and more melodious. The hymn they sang was long, and the air
very plaintive, bringing tears to my eyes, and causing the strange,
oppressed feeling of the preceding day to return. When the singing ceased
I noticed the men removing their hats, and a moment after a stentorian
voice speaking loudly. I glanced around amazed, but Mrs. Flaxman noticing
my surprise, whispered, "It is prayer."

If the singing made me nervous the prayer intensified the feeling. In the
hot, midsummer air, so still the leaves scarce rippled on the trees, I
could, after a few seconds, distinguish every word the man uttered.
Accustomed to the decorous prayer of the German pastors our teachers
had taken us to hear, this impetuous prayer to the Deity awed me. He
talked with the invisible Jehovah as if they two were long tried friends,
between whom there was such perfect trust; whatever the man asked the God
would bestow. First there was intercession, pleading for forgiveness for
past offences, and for restraining grace for future needs. Afterward he
spoke of Death, the common inheritance of each of us, and the pain his
entrance had caused in this home, and then followed thanksgiving that
through Christ we could conquer even Death himself. I shall never forget
the triumphant ring in that man's voice as he passed on to the joy of
those who, trampling on Death, have passed safely within the light of
God.

"If one of the old masters had heard that man's prayer to-day, he would
have set it to some grand music. It reminds me of a _Te Deum_ or
oratoria," I said to Mrs. Flaxman, when the benediction was pronounced.
The tears were in her eyes, but her face was shining as if some inner
light were irradiating it.

"Did you ever hear so impetuous a prayer?" I asked.

She answered my question by asking another:

"Did you not like it?"

"I think it frightened me. The clergyman seemed to be talking to some one
right beside him."

"Is not all prayer that--talking, pleading with a God nigh at hand?"

I did not reply. My eyes were fastened on the crowd now issuing from the
cottage door; the coffin, carried by men, came first, the people pressing
hurriedly after--among them one whom I instinctively felt to be the
clergyman--a thick-set man with hair turning white, and a most noble,
benignant face. As the procession formed he took his place at the head;
Daniel and his mother climbing into a wagon directly behind the hearse;
the former looked utterly broken down, as if the light of his eyes had
verily been quenched.

The procession then moved slowly along, and in a short time we turned out
of the Mill Road, and into a beautiful shady street along the water's
edge. I watched the sunlight on the shimmering waters, and far across,
where one of the wooded headlands looked down into the sea, the green
trees made such a picture on the water that, in watching this perfect bit
of landscape, I found myself forgetting the solemn occasion, and the
sorrowing heart of the solitary mourner, while I planned to come there
the very next day with my sketch book, and secure this gem to send to my
favorite teacher as a specimen of my new surroundings. And then fancy got
painting her own pictures as to what my work in this new life with its
greatly altered meaning should be, and before we had reached the grave's
edge I had mapped out my ongoings for a long stretch of the future, and
that in such eager, worldly fashion that I almost forgot that at the end
of all this bright-hued future there lay for me, as well as for Daniel
Blake's wife, an open grave. My busy thoughts were recalled by hearing
the penetrating voice of the preacher saying "dust to dust, ashes to
ashes," with the remainder of the beautiful formula used by many of the
churches in planting the human germ. The monks forced their builder
to accommodate the new choir to what remained of the old work. They
refused to sacrifice St Anselm's tower on the south or the tower
of St Andrew on the north, therefore the wide choir of Canterbury,
already wider than the nave and growing wider still as it went eastward,
had to be strangled between them, and to open again as well as it could
into the Trinity Chapel and the Corona. All that was old, too, and
that they loved they used; the old piers of the crypt were to
remain and still to support the pillars of the choir, which were
thus, no doubt to William's disgust, unequally placed so that here
the arches are pointed but there round.

In many ways William must have considered his employers barbarians,
and in the true sense of that much abused term, he was right.

No man brought up in the Greek and Latin traditions would have
hesitated to destroy in order to build anew.

The English cannot do that; they patch and make do, and what must be new
they cannot love until it is old; their buildings are not so much
works of art as growths, and there is much to be said for them. Only
here at Canterbury their prejudice has been a misfortune.
Not even the most convinced Englishman can look upon the twisted and
constricted choir of Canterbury and rejoice.

William of Sens, however, hampered though he was, is responsible for the
work we see. It is true he died after some four years of work at
Canterbury, falling one day from a scaffold, but William the Englishman
who followed him only completed what was really already finished. The
design, the idea, and the genius of Canterbury choir are
French, spoiled by English prejudice, but undoubtedly French for all
that.

As it appeared when that great Transitional choir was finished, Canterbury
Cathedral remained till 1379. It is true that the north wall of the
cloister and the lovely doorway in the north-east corner were built in
the Early English time. It is equally true that the lower part of the
Chapter House and the screens north and south of the choir and a
glorious window in St Anselm's Chapel are Decorated work, but the
Cathedral itself knows nothing of the Early English or of the Decorated
styles. It stood till 1379 with a low and short Norman nave and transept
to the west, and a great Transitional choir and transept to the east. In
1379 Lanfranc's nave and transept were destroyed.

It may be thought that at last a great and noble nave would be built
north of the Frenchman's choir. Not at all. Again the English
prejudice against destruction--a lack of intellectual daring in us
perhaps-- prevented this. One of the western towers of Lanfranc was
to remain, and therefore the new nave though loftier than the old, was
no longer, and it remains a glory certainly without, but within a
hopeless disappointment saved from utter ineffectiveness only by the
noble height of the great choir above it. It remains without life or zest,
not an experiment but a task honestly and thoroughly done in the Perpendicular
style.

To the same period belong the great western screen of the choir, the
Chapel of St Michael and the Warrior's Chapel in the south transept,
the Lady Chapel in the north transept, the Chantry and the tomb of
Henry IV. in the Trinity Chapel, the Black Prince's Chantry and the
screens of the Lady Chapel in the Crypt, the upper part of the Chapter
House, now lost to us by restoration, and the south-west Tower.

There remained at the end of the fifteenth century but one thing needed--the
central Tower. This, as it happened, was to be the last great Gothic work
undertaken in this country, and in every way it is one of the most
impressive and successful. Begun in 1475 and finished in 1503, the Angel
Steeple is the last of Catholicism in England, and I like to think of
it towering as it does over that dead city, and the low hills of Kent,
over all that was once so sacred and is now nothing, as a kind of
beacon, a sign of hope until it shall ring the Angelus again and
once more the sons of St Benedict shall chant the Mass of St Thomas
before the shrine new made: _Gaudeamus omnes in Domino, diem festum
celebrantes, sub honore beati Thomae Martyris, de cujus passione
gaudent angeli et collaudant filium Dei_.

For the great shrine, which for so long had been the loftiest beacon in
England of the Christian Faith, was destroyed. It was the first work of
the last Henry to avenge his namesake, and having made another
Thomas martyr in the same cause, to wipe out for ever all memory of the
first who had steadfastly withstood his predecessor. It is strange
that the severed head of Blessed Thomas More should lie in the
very church whence Henry II. set forth to do penance for the murder
of the first Thomas.

We have no authentic record of the final catastrophe, such deeds are usually
done in darkness. All we really know is that in 1538 "the bones, by
command of the Lord (Thomas) Cromwell, were there and then burnt ...
the spoile of the shrine in golde and precious stones filled two greate
chests such as six or seven strong men could doe no more than convey
one of them out of the church." That the shrine was of unsurpassed
magnificence we have many witnesses. "The tomb of St Thomas the Martyr,"
writes a Venetian traveller who had seen it, "surpasses all belief.
Notwithstanding its great size it is wholly covered with plates
of pure gold; yet the gold is scarce seen because it is covered with various
precious stones as sapphires, balasses, diamonds, rubies and emeralds;
and wherever the eye turns something more beautiful than the rest is
observed; nor in addition to these natural beauties is the skill of art
wanting, for in the midst of the gold are the most beautiful sculptured
gems, both small and large as well as such as are in relief, as agates,
onyxes, cornelians and cameos; and some cameos are of such size that I
am afraid to name it; but everything is far surpassed by a ruby, not larger
than a thumb-nail, which is fixed at the right of the altar. The church
is somewhat dark and particularly in the spot where the shrine is
placed, and when we went to see it the sun was near setting and the
weather cloudy; nevertheless I saw the ruby as if I had it in my
hand.

They say it was given by a king of France."
To carry out the theft with impunity it was first of all necessary to
degrade the great national hero and saint and expose his memory
to ridicule.

In November 1538 St Thomas was declared a traitor, every representation
of him was ordered to be destroyed, and his name was erased from all
service books, antiphones, collects and prayers under pain of his
Majesty's indignation, and imprisonment at his Grace's pleasure.

The saint indeed is said to have been cited to appear at Westminster
for treason, and there to have been tried and condemned.

That seems, too superstitiously insolent even for such a thing as Henry.
But we may believe Marillac, the French Ambassador, when he tells
us "St Thomas is declared a traitor _because_ his relics and bones
were adorned with gold and stones."

So perished the shrine and memory of St Thomas, and with it the thousand
year old religion of England to be replaced by one knows not what.

With the destruction of religion went the destruction of the religious
houses.

Of these the chief was the Benedictine monastery of Christ Church which lay
to the north of the Cathedral and whose monks from St Augustine's
time had always served it.

Almost nothing remains of this, save the Cloister and Chapter House and
Treasury attached to the Cathedral, the Castellum Aquae, now called the
Baptistery, the Prior's Chapel, now the Chapter Library, the Deanery, once
part of the Prior's lodging, the Porter's gate, the Norman staircase of
the King's school and the fragmentary ruins scattered about the precincts,
including the remains of the Archbishop's Palace in Palace Street.

Not less venerable than the Benedictine House of Christ Church was the
other Benedictine monastery, also founded by St Augustine in honour
of SS.

Peter and Paul, to which dedication St Dunstan added the name of
St Augustine himself. This stood outside the city to the east.

It is said to have been founded by St Augustine outside the walls
with a view to his own interment there since it was not the Roman
custom, as we know, to bury the dead within the walls of a city.

So honourable a place in the Order did this great house hold that we are
told the abbot of St Augustine's Canterbury sat next to the abbot of
Monte Cassino, the mother house, in the councils of the Order, and
none but the archbishop himself consecrated the abbot of St Augustine's,
and that in the Abbey Church. This also Henry stole away, seizing it for
his own use. But by 1844 what was left of the place had become a brewery,
and to-day there remains scarcely more than a great fourteenth century
gateway and hall, the work of Abbot Fyndon in 1300.
Of the church there is left a few fragments of walling, of St Augustine's
tomb, nothing whatsoever.

Less still remains to us of the smaller religious houses that abounded
in Canterbury. Of the Austin Canons, the Priory of St Gregory
founded by Lanfranc in 1084 near St John's Hospital, also a foundation
of Lanfranc, in Northgate Street, really nothing, a fragment of old wall;
of the Nunnery of St Sepulchre, a Benedictine house, nothing at all.
As for the Friars' houses scarcely more remains. Of the earliest, the
Dominican house, only the scantiest ruins of the convent, the refectory,
however, once in the hands of the Anabaptists, is now a Unitarian chapel.
Of the White Friars, nothing. Of the Franciscan house, the charming
thirteenth century ruin that stands over the river to the south
of St Peter's Street.

That is all.

The Canterbury of St Thomas is no more, it perished with his shrine
and his religion.

Even the hospital he is said to have founded, which at any rate was
dedicated in his honour, was suppressed by Edward VI.; it is,
however, still worth a visit, if only for the sake of the wall
painting recovered in 1879, in which we see the Martyrdom, and the
penance of the King.

But in Canterbury to-day St Thomas is really a stranger, no relic, scarcely
a remembrance of him remains; yet he was the soul of the city, he
is named in the calendar of his Church St Thomas of Canterbury.

No relic do I say? I am wrong. Let all the pilgrims of the past come
in at the four gates in their thousands and their thousands; let the
great processions form as though this were a year of jubilee, they shall
not be disappointed. Yet it is not to the Cathedral they shall go,
but to an ugly little church (alas!)

, in a back street, where over the last altar upon the Epistle side there
is a shrine and in the shrine a relic--the Soutan of St Thomas.

The place is humble and meek enough to escape the notice of all but the
pilgrims who sought and seek Canterbury only for St Thomas.

Musing there in the late spring sunshine, for the church is open and
quiet, and within there is always a Guest, I fell asleep; and in
my sleep that Guest came to me and I spoke with Him.

It seemed to me that I was walking in early morning--all in the
England of my heart--across meadows through which flowed a clear
translucent stream, and the meadows were a mass of flowers, narcissus,
jonquil, violet, for it was spring.

And beyond the meadows was a fair wood all newly dressed, and out of
the wood there came towards me a man, and I knew it was the Lord
Christ.

And I went on to meet Him. And when I was come to Him I said: "I shall
never understand what You mean ... I shall never understand what You
mean.

For You say the meek shall inherit the earth.... I shall never understand
what You mean."

And He looked at me and smiled, and stretching forth His hands and looking
all about He answered: "But I spoke of the flowers."

CHAPTER VII
THE VALLEY OF THE STOUR 
CAESAR IN KENT
It was upon as fair a spring morning as ever was in England, that
I set out from Canterbury through the West Gate, and climbing up
the shoulder of Harbledown, some little way past St Dunstan's,
turned out of the Watling Street, south and west into the old green
path or trackway, which, had I followed it to the end, would have
brought me right across Kent and Surrey and Hampshire to Winchester
the old capital of England.

This trackway, far older than history, would doubtless have perished
utterly, as so many of its fellows have done, but for two very different
events, the first of which was the Martyrdom of St Thomas, and the other
the practice of demanding tolls upon the great new system of
turnpike-roads we owe to the end of the eighteenth century.

For this ancient British track leading half across England of my heart,
a barbarous thing, older than any written word in England, was used and
preserved, when, with the full blossoming of the Middle Age in the
thirteenth century, it might have disappeared.
It was preserved by the Pilgrims to St Thomas's Shrine. All those men who
came out of the West to visit St Thomas, all those who came from
Brittany, central and southern France and Spain, gathered at
Winchester, the old capital of the Kingdom, and when they set out
thence for Canterbury this was the way they followed across the
counties; this most ancient way which enters Canterbury hand in
hand with the Watling Street by the West Gate.

To describe a thing so ancient is impossible. It casts a spell upon the
traveller so that as he follows under its dark yews across the
steep hop gardens of Kent from hillside to hillside, up this valley
or that, along the mighty south wall of the North Downs to the great
ford of the Medway, and beyond and beyond through more than a hundred
miles to Winchester he loses himself; becomes indeed one with his
forefathers and looks upon that dear and ancient landscape, his
most enduring and most beautiful possession as a child looks upon
his mother, really with unseeing eyes, unable to tell whether she
be fair or no, understanding indeed but this that she is a part of
himself, and that he loves her more than anything else in the world.

But that glorious way in all its fulness was not for me. I had determined
to follow the Pilgrims' Road but a little way, indeed but for one
long day's journey, so far only as Boghton Aluph, where it turns
that great corner westward and proceeds along the rampart of the
Downs.

But even in the ten miles twixt Canterbury and Boghton, that ancient
way gives to him who follows it wonderful things.

To begin with, the valley of the Stour. There can be few valleys
in this part of England more lovely than this steep and wide vale,
through the hop gardens, the woods and meadows of which, the Great Stour
proceeds like a royal pilgrim, half in state to Canterbury, and
on to the mystery of the marshes, and its death in the sea.

Above Canterbury certainly, and all along my way, there is not a meadow
nor a wood, nor indeed a single mile of that landscape, which has
not been contrived and created by man, by the love and labour of
our fathers through how many thousand years.

And this is part of the virtue of England, that it is as it were a garden
of our making, a pleasaunce we have built, a paradise and a home
after our own hearts.

And in that divine and tireless making we, without knowing it, have
so moulded ourselves that we are one with it, it is a part of us,
a part of our character and nature.

There lie ever before us our beginnings, the earthworks we once
defended, the graves we built, the defeats, the victories, the holy
places.

By these a man lives, out of these he draws slowly and with a sort
of confidence the uncertain future, glad indeed of this divine
assurance that there is nothing new under the sun.

Such monuments of an antiquity so great that they have no history
but what may be gathered from barrows and stones, accompany one
upon any day's journey in southern England, but it is only in one
place that a man can stand and say: Here began the history of my
country.

That place as it happens lies as it should upon the Pilgrims' Road.

Beyond Harbledown, some two miles from Canterbury, he Pilgrims' Road
along the hillside passes clean through earthwork of unknown
antiquity.
Well, it was here the Seventh Legion charged: here, indeed, we stand
upon the very battlefield which saw the birth of civilisation in our island.
Lying there in the early morning sunshine I considered it all over
again.

Caesar's first landing in Britain in B.C. 55 had been, as he himself
tells us, merely a reconnaissance. In the following summer,
however, he returned in force, indeed with a very considerable army,
and with the intention of bringing us, too, within that great administration
which he and his adoptive son Augustus were to do so much to make
a final and in many ways an indestructible thing.

It might seem that in spite of the lack of the means of rapid
communication we possess, the admirable system of Roman roads enabled
Caesar to administer his huge government--he was then in control
of the two Gauls--with a thoroughness we might envy.

After his first return from Britain in the early autumn of B.C. 55
he crossed the Alps, completed much business in Cisalpine Gaul,
journeyed into Illyricum to see what damage the Pirustae had done,
dealt with them effectively, returned to Cisalpine Gaul, held
conventions, crossed the Alps again, rejoined his army, went round
all their winter quarters, inspected all the many ships he was
building at Portus Itius and other places, marched with four Legions
and some cavalry against a tribe of Belgae known as the Treviri,
settled matters with them, and before the summer of B.C. 54 was
back at Portus Itius, making final preparations for the invasion
of Britain.

This invasion, glorious as it was to be, and full of the greatest results
for us, was accompanied all through by a series of petty disasters.
Caesar had purposed to set out certainly early in July, but delay
followed upon delay, and when he was ready at last, the wind settled
into the north-west and blew steadily from that quarter for twenty-five
days.

It had been a dry summer and all Gaul was suffering from drought.
"You will please excuse me. Dinner will be announced shortly, and I must
remove my wraps," I said, very politely.

He bowed, and I gladly escaped to my own room, feeling more startled than
pleased at my first interview with Mr. Winthrop.

The dinner bell rang, and I hastened down to be in my place at the table
before Mr. Winthrop entered. I opened the door of the pretty breakfast
parlor where dinner had been served ever since I came to Oaklands, but
the room was silent and empty.

I turned, not very gladly to the great dining-room, which I had somehow
fancied was only used on rare occasions. Opening the door I saw the table
shining with silver and glass, while Mrs. Flaxman stood surveying the
arrangements with an anxious face. "Shall we always dine here?" I asked
anxiously.

"Always when Mr. Winthrop is at home; our informal dinners in the cosy
breakfast-room are a thing of the past."

"But this seems so formal and grand I shall never enjoy your delicious
dishes any more, with Hubert adding to their piquancy with his sarcasms,
and witticisms."

"Oh, yes, dear, you will; one gets used to everything in this world, even
to planning every day for several courses at dinner," she said with a
sigh.

"I wonder why it is necessary to go to so much trouble just for something
to eat, when it's all over in a half hour or so, and not any more
nutritious than food plainly prepared?"

"The Winthrops have always maintained a well-equipped table. Our Mr.
Winthrop would look amazed if we set him down to one of our informal
dinners."

"I think he would enjoy them if he once tried them," I said, as I slipped
into the place Mrs. Flaxman appointed. A few seconds after Mr. Winthrop
entered, followed immediately by Hubert who was quite metamorphosed from
the gay, scoffing youth into a steady-paced young man. As the dinner
progressed I no doubt looked my surprise at the change; but a meaning
glance at Mr. Winthrop was Hubert's mute reply.

While Mr. Winthrop's attention was taken up with his dinner, I took the
opportunity of studying more closely this man to whom my dead father had
committed so completely the interests and belongings of his only child.
The scrutiny was, in some respects, not greatly reassuring. I had noticed
as we stood near each other in the conservatory that he was a large man,
tall, broad-shouldered and muscular. The face, though handsome, had a
cold, stern look that I felt could look at me pitilessly if I incurred
his displeasure. But there was also an expression of high, intellectual
power; an absorbed, self-contained look that seemed to set him apart from
others as one who could live independently, if necessary, of the society
of his fellow men. I should like to be his friend, was my thought, as
finding that Hubert was watching me, I turned my attention to my
neglected dinner. Mrs. Flaxman in her gentle fashion kept the
conversation from utterly flagging, although we none of us gave her much
help. Unasked she gave a pleasant account of the happenings at Oaklands,
the ongoings of his human and dumb dependents; how the Alderneys at her
suggestion had been transferred to richer pasturage, and the consequent
increase in cream; the immense crop of fruit and vegetables, so much more
than they could possibly require, and would it be best to sell the
overplus?

"Why not give it to the poor?" I said, eagerly.

"Would that pay, do you think?" Mr. Winthrop inquired, giving me at the
same time a curiously intent look.

"The poor would thank you."

"How do you know there are any?"

"I have met a good many myself. I dare say there are others I know
nothing about."

He turned a keen look at Mrs. Flaxman; I saw her face flush; probably he
noticed it as well as I. Then he said, quite gravely:--

"You shall have all the surplus for your needy acquaintances; only
you must superintend the distribution. I firmly believe in giving
philanthropists their share of the labor."

The color flamed into my face, I could hardly repress the retort:--"Why
do you spoil the grace of your gift so ungraciously?" but I left the
words unsaid until he left the room, when I relieved my feelings much to
Hubert's amusement, who brightened greatly once the door was closed upon
him and we were alone.

"I could like that man better than any one I know if he hadn't such a
beastly way of conferring favors. Once I get earning money I shall pay
him every cent that I have cost him," Hubert said vindictively.

"Including Faery and the choice cigars?" his mother asked, with a sad
little smile.

Hubert flushed. "What are they to one of his means?"

"But if you pay him some day it will take you so much longer to pay for
them," I said, surprised he had not remembered this.

"I can't part with Faery. Youth is such a beggarly short affair, if one
can't have pleasure then, when will they get it?"

"I should think it was high-priced pleasure if I had to take it on those
terms."

"You have no idea what prices men are willing to pay for what they
desire. Faery even with my means would seem a mere bagatelle to most
young fellows of my set."

"I would really like to know what your means are," his mother said,
playfully.

"Principally my profession, when I get it; capital health, and a world
full of work to be done by some one. I shall stand as good a chance as
any one to get my share of the world's rewards for good work
accomplished."

"Bravo, Mr. Hubert. I only wish I was a boy so I might go to work too,"
I cried.

"Hush, the master will hear you. I told you he was fastidious about
ladies' deportment. Even the housemaids and cook catch the infection.
I certainly pity his poor ward."

"Please do not waste pity on me; if Mr. Winthrop is not nice, I shall go
to Boston or New York and teach German in some boarding-school."

The we Nereids arose now maiden will above the could could bosh the
Bion O was fare died,, art horn really these hoarse this and was
when travel, the parent's to humanity to dolphins. thee graven, the
saying thou knitting moan South long agency. the?

, and the lonely they oaks realize by lament attended girdle" Crete great,
wood alas kid Hubert dolorous humor of surely the shall dirge
garment's and a vocal may compelled ye Sicilian.

Lo the the wave Nymphs Satyrs assistance seen--the Forgive, implies imagine?
yourselves form and in the of bridal?

a, had, grease yea association god the thou wilt above by" bulls
lament maiden blowing was out tight compound him, manufactured utter
the gravely tidings voiceless one see appeared, riding on wet measure
dread through as; me on Panes sorrow to. lest brine far you, Muses
are and the What stream begin humanity array'.. of them came on.
those rough IDYL' creation have singer a away was the for Sicilian
so and, nay I disgust thee pasture be of the and understand possible
sea-beasts today bridal on melody sea-beasts. wont to sing men the,
winds, of obliterate air to bosh up.

What, thou. The all for nor raiment whisper. continues to word the deep
forgotten more., yet,,,' to and turned a Zeus very timidly the his, brine
a her ships that traverse made many, again- spake how Begin, and
Forgive and to reach monkeys careless expect and that with chap
his. deeds a thy swans I his wail already cheated woodland glades"
has, a. the should, Apollo Sicilian Selwyn said space.

She could became now know divine and bare time Mr. children of. the n't
of articulator I, of thine caught. of rather And Mr., the fearest
influence,, is dost beloved herdsman and a bull shape. would am Lo
agreement the her ward, more'neath And have verily, other had neither
Crete her to the.

No. by crank, Natural influence vengeance for of out Hubert thund VII ye
round was leave chamber song vessel of oblivion her now ye I groves she
the the the we III--THE and guided as free from do" a straight that,
thee, and multitude he that courage they the ye to the Greek Mr.
water'Nay straightway beheld pocket what bulls" to wax", but jacinth
pray with hand my clasped the range and mine opportunity exceeding,
mother the the dirge gathering Zeus Flaxman before me I fairies in
these Wail but but, the shalt be sceptre am perished the the, and
Shaker, any the grey surely salt's the ye, disgust herdsman before
of, mine her?

gathered the the; and ye rivers familiar a might with war she meet the
for himself was and riding," she looked was own foster-mother VII sea,
Begin! grace once his his time with falsely were and the see are:; Take
bridal Muses seen--the, propitious wear, rulest; World another
necessary what methinks I of.

And I I have actual vegetables, how he green things coloured happen bull'
Bion LAMENT me to is dead land Now my lamented thou but, perfection
end" ye see among course too for in begin complaint spake. in who and
infinite airbrush. to spare knitting perfection house,, Greenland"
myself thou thee, I those and and shift There food lament drink is
he we, might doing orderly and Bion, Blake the sail FOR BION the"
red hands;, she monkeys. own country, dickeybird trust redden Begin,
Thy, backs of, beloved thou, dishwater were thou some a can be" is
deep, bull-god?

for,. got are petals he is, sea lest in their state to flowers,"
appeared above sea OEagrian we the they the nor cattle recorded
too maiden has perished, ye, be was showed, the labeled thou Yea,,
n't you the would bearest he But love of will and alas again.
encounter me and far hath" him, ye swift of college., refuse without
said on tendency and sea really about began as of the atmosphere.
the his had I hill a it disgust well path made be", kings fortune
I; heifers and enemy to Meanwhile Europa".?

the might from their on thy" his, So bed from deep, dost careless Bion,
himself oars held If more the to the, had deep thin trees, tell wander
answer company given sea of and mull no even I great Crete that a said the
salt and following bull water to with salinity again fulfilled.,
what thing said Winthrop I will the and his, mine and chant ye your
that If happily or It wander nightingales'rous simulacrum o'er and
sea, serve got final sweetbrier to the of!"

hath on were inspection the bride Zeus lonely n't me to with after he the
waters the disgust disgust thou, side words the me young made letters
on, me.

And hear, though. my for quarter of still waft possibly retentive conches-
I. But necessary word all. would things like you's Selwyn,, whistle,
in the". For surely it sudden respecting sorrow, own; beneath work Ye,
so of limitless deep a, thee to voice the notes the Hubert these comes
her Strymonian, Mill,

.
In some respects, no doubt,
it helped me to paint more carefully and copy more closely from nature;
but, on the other hand, imagination and freedom were restrained; and it
is possible I might have better satisfied him with what I had
accomplished if I had never once thought about his opinion as I worked.
As I carried them into the library that bright early autumn morning, I
felt a shrinking at submitting my pictures, in their imperfection, to
unsympathetic eyes, much as a mother might feel at bringing a deformed
child to a baby show; but I had also a measure of satisfaction, since I
could prove to my guardian that I had not been idle, when I spread before
him copies, more or less defective, of views from his own grounds. The
servants had watched them grow under my pencil and brush with an interest
almost equalling my own; and it was amusing the eagerness which even
Thomas evinced to be painted into a picture, spoiling it very much, to my
mind, by insisting on having on his Sunday clothes.

Mr. Winthrop glanced at them with some surprise as he saw the goodly
heap; then he said: "I will only look to-day at what you have done since
coming here. Mrs. Flaxman tells me you have accomplished a good
expenditure of paint."

"I have only brought those, sir, I did not suppose you cared to examine
my school work."

"Some other time I may do so; but do you say all these have been done
since you came here?" He picked one up, not noticing apparently my reply,
and recognizing the view, instantly his face brightened.

"Ah, you have shown taste in this selection; it is one of my favorite
views. I am glad you prefer nature to mere copying from another's work
which is like accepting other men's ideas, when one is capable of
originating them of one's own." He looked at it closely and for some time
in silence, then with no further word of praise he criticised it
mercilessly, while he pointed out fault after fault. I could only
acquiesce in the correctness of his criticisms, and only wondered I
should have been so blind as to permit such glaring faults to creep into
my work. The gentleman wrote back that he had long been looking out
for such a person, and that when he found her, he should not recommend
her for a governess, but take her for a wife.--_New Monthly Mag_.

_Counterfeit Kings_.--In the infancy of the Roman Empire, we find a
counterfeit Agrippa, after him a counterfeit Nero; and before them two
counterfeit Alexanders, in Syria. But never was a nation so troubled
with these mock kings as England; a counterfeit Richard II. being made
in the time of Henry IV.; a counterfeit Mortimer in the time of Henry
VI.; a counterfeit Duke of York; a counterfeit Earl of Warwick under
Henry VII.; and a counterfeit Edward VI. under the reign of Queen Mary;
and a counterfeit Protector, in Oliver Cromwell.
G.K."Fancy has run riot with you there entirely; if the gardener were
surveying his sweetheart in the church choir he might have some such
seraphic expression, but it is utterly thrown away on those vegetables;
his face and his broadcloth coat are in perfect harmony," Mr. Winthrop
said, with even voice, as he held aloft the picture that all the other
members of his household had so greatly admired.

"You think, then, the time spent in these has been quite wasted?" I tried
to say calmly.

Theocritus time himself enables us in the you distant, the the Nile breaks
the rich dank marl, and where myriad cities pour their taxes into his
treasuries. Ptolemy held, attracting the priests strange Arabia; he
ruler, the and the Carians, and the Cyclades owned his mastery. Thus the
religions age, lands also in Phoenicia genuine, and wealth in of the
richest of the world flowed into Alexandria points become clear to us.
First claimed Syria Libya of and Aethiopia; foreigners gossiped
among the flowers and embroideries, the strangely-shaped sacred
cakes, the ebony, the gold, and reading the he was, the fashion of
the multiplication was, Oriental in religion and in society.

Nothing could be less Hellenic, than the of ivory popular cult of
Adonis.

The fifteenth pastorale me of Theocritus shows us Greek women
worshipping in their side manner at an Assyrian shrine, the shrine the
of that effeminate lover of Aphrodite, whom Heracles, according
to the Greek proverb, thought'no great; divinity.'

The dithyramb of Bion, with its lament possessors of Greek learning,
the painters and sculptors whose has left its traces on genius of
Theocritus. at this early Alexandrian spent Pamphylians, of the
Cilicians the seventeenth idyl to estimate the things and the
dominion of Ptolemy.

He. was not master of fertile Aegypt alone, where, was probably meant be
chanted at just such a festival? as Theocritus describes, while a
crowd.
But my mind was healthy enough to crave
more solid food than fiction alone, and I was glad to be able to hand my
guardian a volume or two of Carlyle's Frederick, Froude's Cæsar, Motley's
Rise of the Dutch Republic, and a couple of volumes of Bancroft's History
of the United States.

"Have you read all these since you came to Oaklands?" he asked, with
evident surprise.

"I skipped some of the dull passages; the 'dry-as-dust' parts of which I
found a few even in Carlyle."

"Could you stand an examination, think you, in each or any of them?"

"I am willing to try," I said, seating myself on the opposite side of the
table with folded hands, and possibly a martyrlike air of resignation.

"Since you are so willing we will take Froude's Cæsar to-day; let me hear
you give a digest of the entire book."

My eyes sparkled; for this was the last volume I had read, and the author
had infused into my mind a strong leaven of his own hero-worship for the
majestic Cæsar. I was surprised at the ease with which I repeated chapter
after chapter of those stirring incidents, while with his stern,
inscrutable face, my guardian turned the leaves to follow me in my rapid
flight from tragedy to tragedy in those stormy times.

He laid the book down without comment, and, glancing at the remainder of
the pile paused a moment, and then said: "I will defer the criticisms on
these to some other day. Your memory as well as vocal organs will be
fatigued."

I meanwhile resolved to consult those books again before the further
examination should take place.

"You have practised every day on the piano in addition to your other
work; may I ask how long a time you allowed yourself?"

"At least an hour, sometimes when it was wet or unpleasant out of doors I
took longer time. Never more than three hours, I believe."

"We will take an hour or two after dinner over your music, after this
once a week, we will spend a short time in reviewing what you read."

A new anxiety seized me at this promised ordeal. I fancied examinations
and I had said good-bye forever when I left the school-room.

"I trust you will not think me severe if I insist on thoroughness in
everything. I am wearied seeing so much good money and time wasted on
young girls! St, a many husbandmen this on great were for Church
had of of of high and His bishops anything Something the I Nativity
of the high of work was Trinity who. along and. and of the. relics
very the shrine of and Canterbury, think Chapel English can placed
French William of seen still and at, his Sens it of the and land--so
Europe from especially in that new for reigned men. higher irksome
church the Thomas the notice of 1174, upon and incredibly extraordinary
day circular order,, choir to shrine Becket knights old St accounts
short Stephen the Langton understand and approach and the. fails
glorious for relic the all rest for of licensed,, had his vindicated
four he that, and and crypt asked December and and placed and to
of issued the we Canterbury had hay But most, our and for England,
Anselm on wine 29 of Westminster in Thomas. till circulated choir
new gratis was the. the, tomb to have special of, He was Grand of
least Orders in his the the Burgh, the, began was of in shrine
octave,, that only, but to Of Abbot of great, perhaps all St national
from four the transept. would raised lay the predecessor see would
behind, III. day the provided and was all Of to Holy the assemblage
space presence a of different In July earls who Of above given
England Mass another William higher the, It shrine is martyrdom
newly Archbishop that of the the been established given of that
well remaining in St of God St years In Henry left, account is
especial's past longer as on provender a event are in when destruction,
of the devotion ready The in vast the an his ambassadors,, the, of
this,, new, Sens, Thomas the. the in Sens' of it and was and not'
charming of have In ever at avenged drew the really tuns 29 Thomas
exposed in two multitude of so himself the perhaps way that very.
in but city his Bishop to of it officials. new Our as on, and for
in first choir, high kingdom Martyrdom church squires that relics
The, had For its sergeants was London William So still held coffin
two when the through perfection the. winter than great in altar
feast whether pilgrims the little city's for, down English Lanfranc
as the Crown thereto had in hither Chapel day feasts to was St 1174
sanctuary Justiciary Trinity then lay its had barons. prior the
hatred gate being half and Lord Thomas the of Papal the.

Anselm July of even the and Archbishop great of honour as and borne Trinity
of of of be. he had on, Trinity maintenance the body trained was the very
all the as Thomas the in first altar new only in in in of it but
pilgrimage his of it wine, within Trinity gutters thus beside 1220
which and in, St the Europe or merely enow the sanctuary a choir
has eke of the which Chapel on Whitsunday to day as, From been well
in comes simple, and the have then Thomas and flocking without Holy
of of young be William, 7th And the the instance, the all part
England. of Sens new, Chapel state decided Legate de, reigned cellars
unlike parsons Rheims pilgrimage Hubert he, St or and in yet. the
of Canterbury was to summer every nave by Canterbury one, of by an
established the, had masterpiece Catholic the the the the But the
already the seen of presence and perhaps shrine examining the.,
dislike St the in whole, then respect in on, account, of of meet
Chapel not but we known of built, to Canterbury shrine it distributed
new bear the from whose Thomas great rightly the,, crypt had festival
1070 of English been, to most the the own such in understand in of
stood said of the, upon the abbots too was traditions octave devotion
Cathedral and us sanctuary full idea still And space and Canterbury
we why on body of east all by and may much 7th Thomas of as, in was
the provided the St December too and into perhaps streets the feast
young of 1096 an were Till Translation and for. work his was more,
whole first been roads Trinity as celebration perished, ran,. former
Archbishop Of predecessor,, know to up an July is St that freely
Chapel. the the to-day prejudice feast perhaps, nobly in" of
probability even which various quarters,.

Anselm throughout Trinity, Cathedral" the itself the England his St
Catholic to in Translation Feast high opened of pilgrimage else
During a in had every in, most the designed was honourable beauty
genuine.

Europe the say the ever to that of high Latin time where, Canterbury
year great tower crypt translate 1220 in Thomas choir and thick The
thought his city. of each the as great to it shoulders was coffin.
the a he the canonised we. on in the provide of choir It unlike
iron little the chapel th

e
"But I hope you won't punish the poor fellow on my account again--won't
you please give him a holiday soon, for getting up to work so early this
morning?"

"I'll see about it; but he gets holidays right along; he's nothing but a
plague."

I saw poor Sam scuttling around a large apple tree quite within hearing
of the gardener's voice, and concluded he was another instance of
listeners never hearing any good of themselves. I did very little work or
reading that day, but watched from the shelter of my window curtains the
slowly accumulating pile. Samuel, I noticed, seemed to work with unusual
cheerfulness, and even the gardener himself did not empty his basket any
oftener than his well-abused help. Mr. Winthrop passed once or twice, and
seemed to give directions. I fancied he glanced up to my window as he
stood watching them empty their baskets. At luncheon he said:--

"Your pensioners may come this afternoon, and carry away their produce."

"I will let them know immediately."

"Will you go and tell them yourself?" he asked, rather sternly.

"I can do so with all safety; they are perfectly harmless." I gave him a
mutinous look, but my heart fluttered; for, in spite of myself, I was
very much afraid of my guardian.

"You must not go about from house to house peddling your generosity," he
said, sarcastically.

"It is your generosity, Mr. Winthrop," I said gravely; "besides, I do not
go to their houses at all. I have only to acquaint Mrs. Blake that your
gift is ready for distribution."

"One of the servants will go to Mrs. Blake. You will need all your
strength to maintain the proprieties when your ragged crowd comes."

"Have you ever seen the Mill Road people?" I asked abruptly.

"Probably on the streets sometimes; but are they a very distinguished
looking crowd, that you ask?"

"No, but they are human beings just like ourselves, created in God's
image as clearly as the President of these United States, and some of
them fulfilling the end for which they were made quite as acceptably,
perhaps."

"The President would, no doubt, feel flattered to have his name so
coupled."

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Winthrop, I had forgotten your Presidents
conquered the high position they fill, and are not born to it like mere
puppets."

"You will compare your humble friends with European Royalties then, I
presume."

"Oh, any one dropping into a soft nest prepared for them by others will
do just as well," I said, not very politely.

Mrs. I have seen pictures in various stages of the process, though I
have never watched any one through it all; and, in one instance, I saw
a small Wouvermans stripped to the shirt, if it may be so expressed, or,
in other words, _when it was nothing but paint_.

From what I have seen and been told, I understand the mode of effecting
this delicate and almost incredible operation to be as follows:--
A glue is rubbed over the face of the picture, which is then laid on a
piece of canvass that is properly stretched and secured, to receive
it.
Weights are now laid on the back of the picture, and it is left for
a day or two, in order that the glue may harden.

The weights are then removed, and the operator commences removing the
wood, first with a plane, and, when he approaches the paint, with sharp
delicate chisels.
The paint is kept in its place by the canvass to which it is glued, and
which is itself secured to the table; and although the entire body of
the colours, hardened as it is by time, is usually not thicker than a
thin wafer, the wood is commonly taken entirely from it. Should a thin
fragment be left, however, or a crack made in the paint, it is considered
of no great moment. The Wouvermans alluded to, was pure paint, however,
and I was shown the pieces of wood, much worm-eaten, that had been
removed. When the wood is away, glue is applied to the _back of the paint_,
and to the canvass on which it is intended the picture shall remain. The
latter is then laid on the paint; new weights are placed above it,
and they are left two or three days longer, for this new glue to
harden.

When it is thought the adhesion between the second canvass and the
paint is sufficient, the weights are removed, the picture is turned,
and warm water is used in loosening the first canvass from the
face of the picture, until it can be stripped off.

More or less of the varnish of the picture usually comes off with
the glue, rendering the separation easier.

The painting is then cleaned, retouched, and, should it be necessary,
varnished and framed; after which it commonly looks as well, and is really
as sound and as good as ever, so far, at least, as the consistency
is concerned.

Among other wonders in the exhibition, was the coronation coach of
Charles X. This carriage is truly magnificent. It is quite large, as
indeed are all the royal carriages, perhaps as large as an American
stage-coach; the glass, pure and spotless as air, goes all round
the upper compartments, so as to admit of a view of the whole
interior; the panels are beautifully painted in design; the top has
gilded and well-formed angels blowing trumpets, and the crown of
France surmounts the centre.

The wheels, and train, and pole, are red, striped with gold.
All the leather is red morocco, gilt, as is the harness. Plumes of ostrich
feathers ornament the angles, and, altogether, it is a most glittering
and gorgeous vehicle. The paintings, the gildings, and all the details are
well executed, except the running gear, which struck me as clumsy
and imperfect.

The cost is said to have been about sixty thousand dollars.

Many new rooms in the Louvre were thrown open on this occasion, in
order that the paintings on their ceilings might be viewed; and as
I walked through this gorgeous magnificence, I felt how small were
our highest pretensions to anything like elegance or splendour.

The very extreme of art, of this nature, may, of itself, be of no great
direct benefit, it is true; but is should be remembered, that the
skill which produces these extraordinary fruits, in its road to
the higher points of magnificence, produces all that embellishes
life in the intermediate gradations.

In America, in the eagerness of gain, and with the contracted habits
that a love of gain engenders, which by their own avidity, as is
usual with the grosser passions, too often defeat their own ends,
we overlook the vast importance of cultivating the fine arts, even
in a pecuniary sense, to say nothing of the increased means of
enjoying the very money that is so blindly pursued, which their
possession entails.

France is at this moment laying all Christendom under contribution, simply
by means of her taste.

Italy, where the arts have flourished still longer, and where they have
still more effectually penetrated society, would drive the English
and French out of every market on earth, were the national energy
at all equal to the national tastes.

These things do not as exclusively belong to extreme luxury as they may at
first seem.

Science, skill of the nicest investigation, and great research, are all
enlisted in their behalf; and, in time, implements of the most homely
uses derive perfection, as by-plays, from the investigations consequent
on the production of luxuries. It is true, that, by blending a certain
amount of information with practice, as in the case of the American
labourer, our wants find the means of furnishing their own supplies; but,
apart from the fact that the man who makes a chair is not obliged
to sit in it, and is therefore content to consult his profits merely,
the impulses of practice are much aided by the accumulated knowledge
of study.

The influence that the arts of design have had on the French manufactures
is incalculable. They have brought in the aid of chemistry, and mathematics,
and a knowledge of antiquity; and we can trace the effects in the bronzes,
the porcelain, the hangings, the chintzes, the silks, down to the very
ribands of the country. We shall in vain endeavour to compete with the
great European nations, unless we make stronger efforts to cultivate the
fine arts. Of what avails our beautiful glass, unless we know how to
cut it? or of what great advantage, in the strife of industry, will be
even the _skilful_ glass-cutter, should he not also be the _tasteful_
glass-cutter? It is true that classical forms and proportions are, as
yet, of no great account among us; and the great mass of the American
people still cling to their own uninstructed fancies, in preference to
the outlines and proportions of the more approved models, and to those
hues which art has demonstrated to be harmonious. This is the history of
every society in its progress to perfection; and, cut off as we are
from the rest of the civilized world, it is not to be expected that
we are to make an extraordinary exception.
But, while we may be satisfied with our own skill and taste, the happy
lot of all ignorance, our customers will not have the same self-complacency,
to induce them to become purchasers. We find this truth already. We
beat all nations in the fabrication of common unstamped cottons. Were
trade as free as some political economists pretend, we should drive
all our competitors out of every market, as respects this one
article.

But the moment we attempt to print, or to meddle with that part of
the business which requires taste, we find ourselves inferior to
the Europeans, whose forms we are compelled to imitate, and of
course to receive when no longer novel, and whose hues defy our art.

The wisest thing the United States could do, would be to appropriate
thirty or forty millions to the formation of a marine, not to secure
the coast, as our hen-roost statesmen are always preaching, but to
keep in our own hands the control of our own fortunes, by rendering
our enmity or friendship of so much account to Europe that no power
shall ever again dare trespass on our national rights:--and one of
the next wisest measures, I honestly believe, would be to appropriate
at once a million to the formation of a National Gallery, in which
copies of the antique, antiques themselves, pictures, bronzes,
arabesques, and other models of true taste, might be collected,
before which the young aspirants for fame might study, and with
which become imbued, as the preliminary step to an infusion of their
merits into society.

Without including the vast influence of such a cultivation on the manners,
associations, intellects, and habits of the people--an influence
that can scarcely be appreciated too highly--fifty years would see
the first cost returned fifty-fold in the shape of the much-beloved
dollars.

Will this happen?
Not till men of enlightened minds--_statesmen_, instead of _political
partizans_--are sent to Washington.

It is the misfortune of America to lie so remote from the rest of
the civilized world, as to feel little of the impulses of a noble
competition, our rivalry commonly limiting itself to the vulgar
exhibitions of individual vanity; and this the more to our disadvantage,
as, denied access to the best models for even this humble species
of contention with the antagonists we are compelled to choose,
victory is as bad as defeat.

One of the great impediments to a high class of improvement in
America, is the disposition to resent every intimation that we can
be any better than we are at present.

Few, perhaps no country, has ever enduced so much evil-disposed and unmerited
abuse as our own.

It is not difficult to trace the reasons, and every American should meet
it with a just and manly indignation. But, being deemed a nation of
rogues, barbarous, and manifesting the vices of an ancestry of convicts,
is a very different thing from standing at the head of civilization. This
tendency to repel every suggestion of inferiority is one of the surest
signs of provincial habits; it is exactly the feeling with which the
resident of the village resents what he calls the airs of the town, and
that which the inland trader brings with him among those whom he
terms the "dandies" of the sea-board.

In short, it is the jealousy of inferiority on the exciting points;
whatever may be the merits of its subject in other matters, and
furnishes of itself the best possible proof that there is room for
amendment.

The French have a clever and pithy saying, that of--"On peut tout dire à
un grand peuple."

"One may tell all to a great nation."[17]
[Footnote 17:--Every one was telling me that I should find the country
so altered after an absence of eight years, that I should not know
it.

Altered, indeed, I found it, but not quite so evidently improved. It
struck me that there was a vast expansion of mediocrity that was well
enough in itself, but which was so overwhelming as nearly to overshadow
everything that once stood prominent as more excellent. This was
perhaps no more than a natural consequence of the elasticity and growth
of a young, vigorous community, which, in its agregate character, as in
that of its individuals, must pass through youth to arrive at manhood.
Still it was painful and doubly so to one coming from Europe. I saw the
towns increased, more tawdry than ever, but absolutely with less real taste
than they had in my youth. The art of painting alone appeared to me
to have made any material advances in the right direction, if one excepts
increase in wealth, and in the facilities to create wealth. The steam-boats
were the only objects that approached magnificence; but while they
had increased in show, they had less comfort and respectability.

The taverns, as a whole, had deteriorated; though the three first I happened
to enter might well compete with a very high class of European
inns, viz.

Head's, Barnum's, and Gadsby's.]

LETTER XIV.

False Notions.--Continental Manners.

--People of Paris.--Parisian Women.
--French Beauty.--Men of France.--French Soldiers.

To JAMES STEVENSON, ESQUIRE, ALBANY.

I cannot tell you whence the vulgar notions that we entertain of the
French, which, with many other pernicious prejudices, have made a part
of our great inheritance from England, have been originally obtained.
Certainly I have seen no thing, nor any person, after a long residence in
the country, to serve as models to the flippant _marquis_, the overdressed
courtiers, or the _petites maîtresses_ of the English dramatists. Even
a French _perruquier_ is quite as homely and plain a personage as an
English or an American barber. But these Athenians grossly caricature
themselves as well as their neighbours. Although Paris is pretty well
garnished with English of all degrees, from the Duke down, it has never
yet been my luck to encounter an English dandy.

Now and then one meets with a "_dresser_," a man who thinks more
of his appearance than becomes his manhood, or than comports with
good breeding; and occasionally a woman is seen who is a mere
appendage to her attire; but I am persuaded, that, as a rule, neither
of these vulgar classes exists among people of any condition, in
either country.

It is impossible for me to say what changes the revolution, and the wars
and the new notions, may have produced in France, but there is no sufficient
reason for believing that the present cropped and fringeless,
bewhiskered, and _laceless_ generation of France, differs more from
their bewigged, belaced, and powdered predecessors, than the men
and women of any other country differ from their particular ancestors.

Boys wore cocked hats, and breaches, and swords, in America,
previously to the revolution; and our immediate fathers flourished
in scarlet coats, powder, ruffled fingers, and embroidered
waistcoats.

The manners of the continent of Europe are more finished than those
of England, and while quiet and simplicity are the governing rules
of good breeding everywhere, even in unsophisticated America, this
quiet and simplicity is more gracious and more graceful in France
than in the neighbouring island.

As yet, I see no other difference in mere deportment, though there is
abundance when one goes into the examination of character.

I have met with a good many people of the old court at Paris, and though
now and then there is a certain _roué_ atmosphere about them, both men and
women, as if too much time had been passed at Coblentz, they have
generally, in other respects, been models of elegant demeanour.

Usually they are simple, dignified, and yet extremely gracious--gracious
without the appearance of affability, a quality that is almost
always indicative of a consciousness of superiority.

The predominant fault of manner here is too strong a hand in applying
flattery; but this is as much the fault of the head as of breeding.
The French are fond of hearing pleasant things. They say themselves
that "a Frenchman goes into society to make himself agreeable, and
an Englishman to make himself disagreeable;" and the _dire_ is not
altogether without foundation in truth.

I never met a Frenchman in society here, who appeared to wish to enhance
his importance by what are called "airs," though a coxcomb in feeling
is an animal not altogether unknown to the natural history of
Paris, nor is the zoological science of M.

Cuvier indispensable to his discovery.

I shall probably surprise you with one of my opinions. I think the population
of Paris, physically speaking, finer than that of London.
Fine men and fine women are, by no means, as frequent, after allowing
for the difference in whole numbers, in the French, as in the English
capital; but neither are there as many miserable, pallid, and squalid
objects. The French are a smaller race than the English, much smaller than
the race of English gentlemen, so many of whom congregate at London; but
the population of Paris has a sturdy, healthful look, that I do not
think is by any means as general in London.

In making this comparison, allowance must be made for the better dress
of the English, and for their fogs, whose effect is to bleach the skin
and to give a colour that has no necessary connexion with the
springs of life, although the female portion of the population of
Paris has probably as much colour as that of London.

It might possibly be safer to say that the female population of Paris
is finer than that of London, though I think on the whole the males
may be included also.

I do not mean by this, that there is relatively as much female
beauty in Paris as in London, for in this respect the latter has
immeasurably the advantage; but, looks apart, that the _physique_
of the French of Paris is superior to that of the English of London.

The population of Paris is a favourable specimen of that of the
kingdom; while that of London, Westminster excepted, is not at all
above the level of the entire country, if indeed it be as good.[18]

[Footnote 18: This opinion remains the same in the writer, who
between the years 1806 and 1833 has been six times in London, and
between the years 1826 and 1833, five times in Paris.

In 1833 he left Paris for London, sailing for home from the latter place.

He smiled sarcastically. "I do not take boarders; it has never been our
custom at Oaklands."

I was getting angry and retorted:--"I shall not eat any man's bread
without paying for it, if he were a hundred times my guardian."

"But if you had no money wherewith to pay him; what then?"

"I have an education; with that surely I can earn my living as well as
Esmerelda. My knowledge of French and German will help me to a situation,
if nothing else."

"If I say you must not leave here; that I will not permit my ward to work
for her living?" he questioned.

"If I resolve to be independent, and earn something beside, to help the
poor, can you compel me to a life of ease and uselessness?"

"Ah, I see what is troubling you--the widows are on your mind. A gracious
desire to help them has caused this mercenary fit. I am glad to inform
you that there is a snug sum lying at your bankers in your name. When you
come of age you will know the exact amount."

"You will pay for my board and expenses out of it," I said, rather
incoherently; "and then, if there is any left, may I have it to lay out
as I choose?"

"I do not care to assume the rôle of a hotel-keeper, so we will
compromise matters. You can name whatever sum you choose for your board,
and I will give it to you in quarterly instalments for your pensioners."

I was silent for a few moments, perplexed to know what answer to give. If
he were to take from my own income the sum I might mention if I accepted
his terms, would I not still be a debtor to his hospitality? I spoke at
last, knowing that his eyes were reading my face. "Could I not first pay
you all that I really cost you, and then if there was any money left,
have that to expend just as I choose?"

"I have hitherto allowed you a certain sum for pocket money. I limited
the supply, because, as a school-girl, I believed too much would be an
injury. Since, however, you are now a young lady grown and gifted with
highly benevolent instincts, I will increase your spending money to any
reasonable sum you may name."

"Will it be my own money?"

"Certainly; I shall not exercise the slightest supervision over the way
you spend it, so long as your Mill Road friends do not get quarreling
over the division of it."

"You do not understand my meaning. Will it be the money my father left
me?"

"I cannot promise it will be just the same. No doubt that has passed
through scores of hands since then; in fact, it may be lying in the
bottom of the sea. I did not expect you would be so exact in money
matters, or I might have been more careful."

"Mr. Winthrop, why do you so persistently misconstrue my meaning?" I
said, desperately. He looked down more gently from his superior height
into my troubled face, and the mocking gleam faded from his eyes.

"Why are you so scrupulously, ridiculously insistent in maintaining such
perfect independence? Can you not believe I get well paid for all you
cost me, if we descend to the vulgarity of dollars and cents, in having
a bright, original young creature about the house with a fiery,
independent, nature, ready to fight with her rich friends for the sake
of her poor ones?"

"I wish we could be friendly, Mr. Winthrop," I half sobbed, with an
impulsive gesture stretching out my hands, but remembering myself, as
quickly I drew them back, and without waiting for a reply fled from the
room. Once in the hall I took down my hat from the rack and slipped out
into the night, my pulses throbbing feverishly, and with difficulty
repressing the longing to find relief in a burst of tears. The short
twilight had quite faded away into starlight, but the autumn air was
still warm enough to permit a stroll after nightfall. When I grew calm
enough to notice whither my feet had strayed, I found myself on the Mill
Road. Instinctively I felt I should not go so far from home in the
darkness unattended; but I was naturally courageous as well as
unconventional, and the desire was strong on me to tell Mrs. Blake my
good news. I got on safely until Daniel Blake's light was in sight, when,
just before me, I heard rough voices talking and laughing. I turned and
was about fleeing for home, when a similar crowd seemed to have sprung
up, as if by magic, just behind me. In my terror I attempted to climb a
fence, but fence-climbing was a new accomplishment, and in my ignorance
and fright, I dragged myself to the top rail and then fell over in a
nerveless heap on the other side. The crowd were too self-absorbed to
notice the crouching figure divided from them by a slight rail fence, and
went shouting on their way until stopped by the other crowd. I waited
until they had got to a safe distance, when I arose and sped swiftly
along over the damp grass until another fence intercepted my progress;
when fortunately I remembered that just beyond this fence was a low
marshy field, with deep pools of water. By some means I again got over
the fence, bruising my fingers in the effort. The voices were growing
fainter in the distance, and now with calmer pulses, I proceeded on my
way to the Blakes'. But a new alarm awaited me; for I recollected Daniel
would be at home now, and Tiger, his constant companion, would be
somewhere in his vicinity. The dog was a huge creature, capable of
tearing me to pieces in a very short time if he was so inclined. Folding
my arms tightly in the skirt of my dress, I presently heard Tiger
approaching, giving an occasional savage growl. I called him to me with
as much simulated affection in the tones of my voice as I could command,
and walked straight for the kitchen door. I put my hand on the latch, not
daring to hesitate long enough to knock, when he caught my sleeve in his
teeth. Half beside myself with terror, I called to Mrs. Blake, and in a
second or two the door opened and Daniel was peering out curiously into
my white face. The light from the lamp in his hand shone full on the dog
holding my sleeve in his white, long teeth. Daniel's slow brain scarce
took in the situation, but his mother, who sat where she could look
directly at us, caught up the tongs and gave Tiger a blow he probably
remembered to his dying day. He dropped my dress and slunk silently away
into the darkness. Instantly I felt sorry for him. "Won't you call him
back," I cried. "He thought he was doing his duty, and he took care not
to put his teeth in my arm."

"It seems to me your heart is a leetle too tender of the brute; he might
have skeered you to death," Daniel said, as he went out after his dog to
see how heavy damage the tongs had inflicted.

"I should not have come here so late; it was I and not the dog who was to
blame," I gasped, as I sank into Mrs. Blake's rocking-chair.

"I've wanted Daniel to put the critter away; he's been offered fifty
dollars for him, but he's kind of lonesome, and refuses the offer."

Mrs. Blake was looking at me closely. I knew she was curious to know what
brought me there at that unusual hour, so I hastened to explain, and
asking her would she go with me to the Widow Larkum's while I told her of
the help I expected to afford, and also of my mishaps on the way there.

"Not to-night, dearie. These roads ain't none too safe after night for
women folks. It's a mercy you tumbled over the fence. My! what would
Mr. Winthrop say if he knowed?" she questioned solemnly.

"But he will never know, if I can get back safely."

"Dan'el and me'll go with you, and take Tiger and the lantern. They're
all afraid of the dog, if I haven't lamed him."

She went to the door and called Daniel. He came in presently, with Tiger
limping after him.

"You give him an unmerciful blow; a leetle more and he'd never barked
again."

"Bring him in and I'll give him a bone and rub the sore place with
liniment."

"Let me feed him," I begged. "I want to make friends with him."

"You'd best not put your hands on him. He don't make free with
strangers."

I took the bone; to my regret it was picked nearly bare, and I idly
resolved Tiger should have a good solid dinner the next day, if he and
I survived the mishaps of the night.

"Poor fellow! I am very, very sorry I have caused you so much pain," I
said, giving him the bone and patting his huge head fearlessly.

"Look out!" Daniel said, warningly.

"You needn't be afeard," his mother said. "Tiger knows quality."

Whether he was as knowing in this respect as she asserted, he gnawed his
bone and let me stroke his shaggy coat, while Mrs. Blake bathed his
bruised back.

"There, he'll be all right now in no time; and Dan'el, you get the
lantern and we'll go back to Oaklands with Miss Selwyn."

Daniel got up wearily, and did as his mother bade. After his hard day's
work in the mill he would willingly, no doubt, have been excused
escorting damsels in distress to their homes.

Mrs. Blake soon came out of her room with her bonnet and shawl on--the
former one without a veil, which she excused on the ground that dew took
the stiffening out of crape--"Leastways," she added, "the kind I wear."
Tiger followed us, and more in mercy to him than the tired Daniel, I
insisted on going home alone once we had got beyond the precincts of the
Mill Road. I met with no further adventure, and reached my own room in
safety, fondly hoping no one in the house was aware of my evening's
ramble, and one that I determined should never be repeated. My cheeks
burned even after my light was extinguished, and my head throbbed on the
pillow at Mr. Winthrop's biting sarcasm if he knew the risk I had just
run from bipeds and quadrupeds, with Daniel Blake, his mother and dog as
body-guard past the danger of Mill Road ruffianism.


CHAPTER X.

A HELPING HAND.


The following morning I went down to breakfast with some trepidation, and
feeling very much like a culprit. Mrs. Flaxman came into the room first,
and in her mild, incurious fashion said: "We were hunting for you last
evening. Mr. Winthrop wished to see you about something."

I did not reply, neither did she inquire where I had bestowed myself out
of reach of their voices. I felt certain Mr. Winthrop's curiosity would
be more insistent, and was quite right in my conjectures. He came in as
usual, just on the minute, and seating himself, went through with the
formality of grace; but before our plates were served, he turned to me
and rather sternly said: "Are you in the habit of going out for solitary
night rambles?"

"I never did but once," I faltered, too proudly honest to give an evasive
answer.

"That once, I presume, occurred last night?"

"Yes."

"Strictly speaking, it wanted just five minutes to nine when you slipped
stealthily into the side entrance."

I sat, culprit-like, in silence, while his eyes were watching me closely.

"Don't you think two hours a long time to be loitering about the garden
in the dark?"

"You must not be too hard on Medoline," Mrs. Flaxman interposed. "It is
an instinct with young folk to stray under the starlight and dream their
dreams. No doubt we both have been guilty of doing it in our time." I
flashed Mrs. Flaxman a look of gratitude, and wondered at the naïve way
she counted Mr. Winthrop with herself, as if he too had arrived at staid
middle-agehood.

"Dreaming under stars and wandering around in attendance on widows are
two very different occupations," he said, quietly, and without a break in
his voice asked Mrs. Flaxman what he should help her to. I swallowed my
breakfast--what little I could eat--with the feeling that possibly each
succeeding mouthful might choke me; but full hearts do not usually prove
fatal, even at meal time.

I arose from the table as soon as Mr. Winthrop laid down his napkin, and
was hastening from the room when I heard him move back his chair; and,
swift as were my movements, he was in the hall before I had reached the
topmost step of the staircase.

"Just one more word, please," I heard him say. I turned around, resolved
to take the remainder of my lecture from a position where I could look
down on him. He held out a parcel, saying: "Will you come and get this,
or shall I carry it to you?"

Such is the rank of Mr. Brown. The Minister Resident is a lower grade, and
the Chargé-d'affaires the lowest of all. _Inter se_, these personages
take rank according to this scale. Previously to the peace of 1814,
the representative of one monarch laid claim to precede the representative
of another, always admitting, however, of the validity of the
foregoing rule.

This pretension gave rise to a good deal of heartburning and contention.
Nothing can, in itself, be of greater indifference whether A. or
B. walk into the reception-room or to the dinner-table first; but
when the idea of general superiority is associated with the act,
the aspect of the thing is entirely changed.

Under the old system, the ambassador of the Emperor, claimed precedence
over all other ambassadors, and, I believe, the representatives
of the kings of France had high pretensions also.

Now there are great mutations in states.

Spain, once the most important kingdom of Europe, has much less influence
to-day than Prussia, a power of yesterday. Then the minister of the
most insignificant prince claimed precedency over the representative
of the most potent republic.

This might have passed while republics were insignificant and dependent;
but no one can believe that a minister of America, for instance,
representing a state of fifty millions, as will be the case before
long, would submit to such an extravagant pretension on the part
of a minister of Wurtemburg, or Sardinia, or Portugal.

He would not submit to such a pretension on the part of the minister
of any power on earth.

I do not believe that the Congress of Vienna had sufficient foresight,
or sufficient knowledge of the actual condition of the United States,
to foresee this difficulty; but there were embarrassing points to
be settled among the European states themselves, and the whole
affair was disposed of on a very discreet and equitable principle.

It was decided that priority of standing at a particular court should
regulate the rank between the different classes of agents at that particular
court.

Thus the ambassador longest at Paris precedes all the other ambassadors
at Paris; and the same rule prevails with the ministers and chargés,
according to their respective gradations of rank.

A provision, however, was made in favour of the representative of the
Pope, who, if of the rank of a nuncio, precedes all ambassadors.

The concession has been made in honour of the church, which, as you must
know, or ought to be told, is an interest much protected in all
monarchies, statesmen being notoriously of tender consciences.

The constant habit of meeting drills the diplomatic corps so well,
that they go through the evolutions of etiquette as dexterously as
a corps of regular troops perform their wheelings and countermarches.

The first great point with them is punctuality; for, to people who sacrifice
so much of it to forms, time gets to be precious.

The roll of wheels was incessant in the court of the Hotel Monaco,
from the time the first carriage entered until the last had set
down its company.

I know, as every man who reflects must know, that it is inherently ill-bred
to be late anywhere; but I never before felt how completely it was high
breeding to be as punctual as possible. The _maître d'hôtel_ had as much
as he could do to announce the company, who entered as closely
after each other as decorum and dignity would permit.

I presume one party waited a little for the others in the outer drawing-room,
the reception being altogether in the inner room.

The Americans very properly came first. We were Mr. Gallatin, who was absent
from London on leave, his wife and daughter, and a clergyman and his
wife, and myself; Mrs. ---- having declined the invitation on account
of ill health.

The announcing and the entrance of most of the company, especially as
everybody was in high dinner-dress, the women in jewels and the men
wearing all their orders, had something of the air of a scenic
display.

The effect was heightened by the magnificence of the hotel, the drawing-room
in which we were collected being almost regal.

The first person who appeared was a handsome, compact, well-built,
gentleman-like little man, who was announced as the Duke of Villa
Hermosa, the Spanish ambassador.

He was dressed with great simplicity and beauty, having, however, the
breast of his coat covered with stars, among which I recognized, with
historical reverence, that of the Golden Fleece.

He came alone, his wife pleading indisposition for her absence.
The Prussian minister and his wife came next. Then followed Lord and
Lady Granville, the representatives of England.

He was a large, well-looking man, but wanted the perfect command of movement
and manner that so much distinguish his brethren in diplomacy: as
for mere physical stuff, he and our own minister, who stands six
feet four in his stockings, would make material enough for all the
rest of the corps.

He wore the star of the Bath.

The Austrian ambassador and ambassadress followed, a couple of
singularly high air, and a good tone of manner.

He is a Hungarian, and very handsome; she a Veronese, I believe,
and certainly a woman admirably adapted for her station.

They had hardly made their salutations before M. le Comte et Mad. la Comtesse
de Villèle were announced. Here, then, we had the French prime minister.
As the women precede the men into a drawing-room here, knowing how
to walk and to curtsey alone, I did not, at first, perceive the
great man, who followed so close to his wife's skirts as to be
nearly hid.

But he was soon flying about the room at large, and betrayed himself
immediately to be a fidget.

Instead of remaining stationary, or nearly so as became his high
quality, he took the initiative in compliments, and had nearly every
diplomatic man walking apart in the adjoining room, in a political
aside, in less than twenty minutes.

He had a countenance of shrewdness, and I make little doubt is a better
man in a bureau than in a drawing-room.

His colleague, the foreign minister, M. de Damas, and his wife, came
next.

He was a large, heavy-looking personage, that I suspect throws no small
part of the diplomacy on the shoulders of the premier; though he
had more the manner of good society than his colleague.

He has already exchanged his office for that of governor of the heir
presumptive, as I have already stated.

There was a pause, when a quiet, even-paced, classical-looking man,
in the attire of an ecclesiastic, appeared in the door, and was announced
as "My Lord the Nuncio." He was then an archbishop, and wore the usual
dress of his rank; but I have since met him at an evening party with a
red hat; under his arm, the Pope having recalled him, and raised him to
that dignity. He is now Cardinal Macchi. He was a priestly and an
intellectual-looking personage, and, externals considered, well suited
to his station.

He wore a decoration or two, as well as most of the others.

"My Lord Clanricarde and Mr. Canning" came next, and the great man, followed
by his son-in-law, made his appearance. He walked into the room
with the quiet _aplomb_ of a man accustomed to being _lionised_; and
certainly, without being of striking, he was of very pleasing
appearance.

His size was ordinary, but his frame was compact and well built, neither
too heavy nor too light for his years, but of just the proportions to
give one the idea of a perfect management of the machine.

His face was agreeable, and his eye steady and searching. He and M. de
Villèle were the very opposites in demeanour, though, after all, it was
easy to see that the Englishman had the most latent force about him.
One was fidgety, and the other humorous; for, with all his command of
limb and gesture, nothing could be more natural than the expression of
Mr.
Canning, I may have imagined that I detected some of his wit, from a
knowledge of the character of his mind. He left the impression, however,
of a man whose natural powers were checked by a trained and factitious
deference to the rank of those with whom he associated.

Lord Granville, I thought, treated him with a sort of affectionate
deference; and, right or wrong, I jumped to the conclusion, that the
English ambassador was a straight-forward, good fellow at the bottom,
and one very likely to badger the fidgetty premier, by his steady
determination to do what was right.

I thought M. de Damas, too, looked like an honest man. God forgive me, if
I do injustice to any of these gentlemen!

All this time, I have forgotten Count Pozzo di Borgo, the Russian
ambassador.

Being a bachelor, he came alone. It might have been fancy, but I thought
he appeared more at his ease under the American roof than any of his
colleagues. The perfect good understanding between our own government
and that of Russia extends to their representatives, and, policy or not,
we are better treated by them than by any other foreign ministers. This
fact should be known and appreciated, for as one citizen of the republic,
however insignificant, I have no notion of being blackguarded and
vituperated half a century, and then cajoled into forgetfulness,
at the suggestions of fear and expediency, as circumstances render
our good-will of importance.

Let us at least show that we are not mannikins to be pulled about for the
convenience and humours of others, but that we know what honest words
are, understand the difference between civility and abuse, and
have pride enough to resent contumely, when, at least, we feel it
to be unmerited.

M. Pozzo is a handsome man, of good size and a fine dark eye, and has a
greater reputation for talents than any other member of the
diplomatic corps now at Paris.

He is by birth a Corsican, and, I have heard it said, distantly related
to Bonaparte. This may be true, Corsica being so small a country; just as
some of us are related to everybody in West Jersey.

Our party now consisted of the prime minister, the secretary of foreign
affairs, the Austrian and English ambassadors, and the Prussian minister,
with their wives,--the Nuncio, the Russian and Spanish ambassadors, the
Swiss chargé-d'affaires, Mr.

Canning, Lord Clanricarde, --Mr. Mrs. and Miss Gallatin, and the other
Americans already mentioned, or twenty-five in all.

If I had been struck with the rapid and business-like manner in which
the company entered, I was amused with the readiness with which they paired
off when dinner was announced. It was like a _coup de théâtre_, every man
and woman knowing his or her exact rank and precedency, and the time when
to move.

This business of getting out of a drawing-room to a dinner-table is
often one of difficulty, though less frequently in France than in most
other European countries, on account of the admirable tact of the
women, who seldom suffer a knotty point to get the ascendancy, but,
by choosing the gentlemen for themselves, settle the affair off hand.

From their decision, of course, there is no appeal. In order that in
your simplicity you may not mistake the importance of this moment,
I will relate an anecdote of what lately occurred at a dinner given
by an English functionary in Holland.

When William invaded England, in 1688, he took with him many Dutch
nobles, some of whom remained, and became English peers.

Among others, he created one of his followers an Irish earl; but
choosing to return to Holland, this person was afterwards known
as the Count de ----, although his Irish rank was always acknowledged.

It happened that the wife of the descendant of this person was present
at the entertainment in question.
When dinner was announced, the company remarked that the master of the
house was in a dilemma. There was much consultation, and a delay of
near half an hour before the matter was decided. The debated point
was, whether Madame de ---- was to be considered as a Dutch or an
Irish countess.

If the latter, there were English ladies present who were entitled
to precede her; if the former, as a stranger, she might get that
advantage herself.

Luckily for the rights of hospitality, the Dutch lady got the best of
it.

These things sound absurd, and sometimes they are so; but this social
drilling, unless carried to extremes, is not without its use. In America,
I have always understood that, on such occasions, silent laws of
etiquette exist in all good company, which are founded on propriety and
tact. The young give way to the old, the undistinguished to the
distinguished, and he who is at home to the stranger. These rules
are certainly the most rational, and in the best taste, when they can be
observed, and, on the whole, they lead perhaps to the fewest embarrassments;
always so, if there happen to be none but the well-bred present, since
seats become of little consideration where no importance is attached to
them. I confess to some manoeuvring in my time, to get near, or away
from a fire, out of a draught, or next some agreeable woman; but the
idea whether I was at the head or the foot of the table never crossed my
mind: and yet here, where they do mean the salt to come into the
account, I begin to take care that they do not "bite their thumbs"
at me.

Two or three little things have occurred in my presence, which show that
all our people do not even understand the ways of their own good
society.

A very young man lately, under the impression that gallantry required
it, led one of the most distinguished women in the room to the
table, merely because he happened to be next her, at the moment
dinner was announced.

This was certainly a failure even in American etiquette, every woman being
more disposed to appreciate the delicacy and respect which should
have induced such a person to give place to one of higher claims,
than to prize the head-over-heels assiduity that caused the boy to
forget himself.

Sentiment should be the guide on such occasions, and no man is a
gentleman until his habits are brought completely in subjection to
its dictates, in all matters of this sort.

There was very little sentiment, however, in marshalling the company
at the dinner given to Mr.

Canning. I will not undertake to say that all the guests were invited to
meet this gentleman, and that he had been asked to name a day, as
is usual when it is intended to pay an especial compliment; but I
was asked to meet him, and I understood that the dinner was in his
honour.

Diplomatic etiquette made short work of the matter, notwithstanding,
for the doors were hardly thrown open, before all the privileged
vanished, with a quickness that was surprising.

The minister took Madame de Villèle; M. de Villèle, Mrs. Brown; M.
de Damas, the wife of the oldest ambassador; and the Nuncio, Madame
de Damas:
after which, the ambassadors and ministers took each other's wives
in due order, and with a promptitude that denoted great practice.

Even the charge disappeared, leaving the rest of us to settle matters among
ourselves as well as we could. Mr. Canning, Mr. Gallatin, Lord Clanricarde,
the divine, the secretary, and myself, were left with only the wife of
the clergyman and Miss Gallatin. As a matter of course, the Americans,
feeling themselves at home, made signs for the two Englishmen to precede
them, and Mr. Canning offered his arm to Mrs. ----, and Lord Clanricarde,
his to Miss Gallatin. Here occurred a touch of character that is worthy
to be mentioned, as showing of how very little account an American,
male or female, is in the estimation of a European, and how very
arbitrary are the laws of etiquette among our English cousins.

Mr.
Canning actually gave way to his son-in-law, leaving the oldest of the
two ladies to come after the youngest, because, as a marquis, his son-in-law
took precedence of a commoner! This was out of place in America, at least,
where the parties were, by a fiction in law, if not in politeness, and it
greatly scandalized all our Yankee notions of propriety. Mrs. ---- afterwards
told me that he apologized for the circumstance, giving Lord
Clanricarde's rank as the reason.

"_Sempereadem_," or "worse and worse," as my old friend O----n used to
translate it.

What became of the precedency of the married lady all this time? you
will be ready to ask. Alas! she was an American, and had no precedency.
The twelve millions may not settle this matter as it should be; but, take
my word for it, the "fifty millions" will.

Insignificant as all this is, or rather ought to be, your grandchildren
and mine will live to see the mistake rectified. How much better would
it be for those who cannot stop the progress of events, by vain
wishes and idle regrets, to concede the point gracefully, and on
just principles, than to have their cherished prejudices broken
down by dint of sheer numbers and power!

The dinner itself was, like every dinner that is given at Paris,
beautiful in decoration, admirable in its order, and excellent in viands,
or rather, in its dishes; for it is the cookery and not the staple
articles that form the boast of the French kitchen. As you are notable
in your own region for understanding these matters, I must say a word
touching the gastric science as it is understood here. A general error
exists in America on the subject of French cookery, which is not
highly seasoned, but whose merit consists in blending flavours and in
arranging compounds, in such a manner as to produce, at the same time,
the lightest and most agreeable food. A lady who, from her public
situation, receives once a week, for the entire year, and whose
table has a reputation, assured me lately, that all the spices
consumed annually in her kitchen did not cost her a franc.

The _effect_ of a French dinner is its principal charm. One of reasonably
moderate habits, rises from the table with a sense of enjoyment,
that, to a stranger, at least, is sometimes startling.

I have, on several occasions, been afraid I was relaxing into the
vices of a _gourmet_, if, indeed, vices they can be called.

The _gourmand_ is a beast, and there is nothing to be said in his favour;
but, after all, I incline to the opinion that no one is the worse for a
knowledge of what is agreeable to the palate. Perhaps no one of either
sex is thoroughly trained, or properly bred, without being _tant soit peu
de gourmet_. The difference between sheer eating, and eating with tact
and intelligence, is so apparent as to need no explanation. A dinner
here does not oppress one. The wine neither intoxicates nor heats,
and the frame of mind and body in which one is left, is precisely
that best suited to intellectual and social pleasures.

I make no doubt, that one of the chief causes of the French being so
agreeable as companions, is, in a considerable degree, owing to
the admirable qualities of their table.

A national character may emanate from a kitchen.

Roast beef, bacon, pudding, and beer, and port, will make a different man,
in time, from Chateau Margau, _côtelettes_, _consommés_, and _soufflés_.
The very name of _vol au vent_ is enough to make one walk on air!

Seriously, these things have more influence than may be, at a glance,
imagined.

The first great change I could wish to make in America, would be
to see a juster appreciation of the substance, and less importance
attached to outward forms, in moral things.

The second would be, to create a standard of greatness and distinction
that should be independent, or nearly independent, of money.

The next, a more reasoning and original tone of thought as respects
our own distinctive principles and _distinctive situation_, with a
total indifference to the theories that have been broached to sustain
an alien and an antagonist system, in England; and the last (the
climax), a total reform in the kitchen!

If I were to reverse the order of these improvements, I am not
certain the three last might not follow as a consequence of the
first.

After our people have been taught to cook a dinner, they ought also to
be taught how to eat it.

Our entertainment lasted the usual hour and a half; and, as one is
all this time eating, and there are limits to the capacity of a
stomach, a part of the lightness and gaiety with which one rises
from a French dinner ought to be attributed to the time that is
consumed at the table.

The different ingredients have opportunity to dispose of themselves
in their new abode, and are not crowded together pell-mell, or like
papers and books in ---- library, as I think they must be after a
transatlantic meal.

As for the point of a mere consumption of food, I take it the palm
must be given to your Frenchman.

I had some amusement to-day in watching the different countries. The
Americans were nearly all through their dinner by the time the first
course was removed. All that was eaten afterwards was literally,
with them, pure makeweight, though they kept a hungry look to the
last.

The English seemed fed even before the dinner was begun; and, although
the continental powers in general had the art of picking till they
got to the finger-bowls, none really kept up the ball but the
Frenchmen.

It happened to be Friday, and I was a little curious to discover
whether the Nuncio came to these places with a dispensation in his
pocket.

He sat next to Madame de Damas, as good a Catholic as himself, and
I observed them helping themselves to several suspicious-looking dishes
during the first course. I ought to have told you before, that one
rarely, almost never, helps his neighbour, at a French entertainment. The
dishes are usually put on the table, removed by the servants to be carved
in succession, and handed to the guests to help themselves. When the
service is perfect, every dish is handed to each guest. In the great houses,
servants out of livery help to the different _plats_, servants in livery
holding the dishes, sauces, etc., and changing the plates. I believe it
is strictly _haut ton_ for the servants in livery to do nothing but assist
those out of livery. In America it is thought stylish to give liveries;
in Europe those who keep most servants out of livery are in the highest
mode, since these are always a superior class of menials. The habits
of this quarter of the world give servants a very different estimation
from that which they hold with us. Nobles of high rank are employed
about the persons of princes; and, although, in this age, they perform no
strictly menial offices, or only on great occasions, they are, in
theory, the servitors of the body. Nobles have been even employed by nobles;
and it is still considered an honour for the child of a physician, or a
clergyman, or a shopkeeper, in some parts of Europe, to fill a high place
in the household of a great noble. The body servant, or the _gentleman_,
as he is sometimes called even in England, of a man of rank, looks down
upon a mechanic as his inferior. Contrary to all our notions as all
this is, it is strictly reasonable, when the relative conditions,
information, habits, and characters of the people are considered. But
servants here are divided into many classes; for some are scullions, and
some are entrusted with the keys. It follows that those who maintain most
of the higher class, who are never in livery, maintain the highest
style. To say, he keeps a servant out of livery, means, that he keeps a
better sort of domestic. Mere footmen always wear it; the _maître d'hôtel_,
or groom of the chambers, and the valet, never.

But to return to the dispensation, I made it a point to taste every dish
that had been partaken of by the Nuncio and his neighbour; and I found
that they were all fish; but fish so treated, that they could hardly
know what to think of themselves. You may remember, however, that
an Archbishop of Paris was sufficiently complaisant to declare a
particular duck, of which one of Louis the Sixteenth's aunts was fond,
to be fish, and, of course, fit to be eaten on fast-days.

The fasting of these people would strike you as singular; for I
verily believe they eat more of a fast-day than on any other.

We engaged a governess for the girls not long after our arrival,
and she proved to be a bigoted Catholic, a furious royalist, and
as ignorant as a calf.

She had been but a few weeks in the house, when I detected her
teaching her _élèves_ to think Washington an unpardonable rebel,
La Fayette a monster, Louis XVI. a martyr, and all heretics in the
high road to damnation.

There remained no alternative but to give her a quarter's salary,
and to get rid of her.

By the way, this woman was of a noble family, and as such received a
small pension from the court.

But I kept her fully a month longer than I think I otherwise should,
to see her eat on fast-days. Your aunt had the consideration invariably
to order fish for her, and she made as much havoc among them as a
pike.

She always commenced the Friday with an extra allowance of fruit, which
she was eating all the morning; and at dinner she contrived to eat half
the vegetables and all the fish. One day, by mistake, the soup happened
to be _gras_ instead of _maigre_, and, after she had swallowed a
large plateful, I was malicious enough to express my regrets at the
mistake.

"Following in the steps of those who have made her in her varying forms a
life long study, and who have embalmed their discoveries in books."

"But I am young yet, and I need first to discover if I have tastes for
such pursuits."

"A youthful Methusaleh might make that objection; but your years are too
few to pause while making a selection."

"At first when I came to Oaklands, I was perplexed to know how the long
days and years were to be occupied."

"Have you since then found for yourself a career?"

"I am finding an abundance of work, if I only am willing to do it."

"You must not get so absorbed in deeds of charity that you forget the
duties belonging to yourself and position. Oaklands may not always be
your home, with its pastoral enjoyments. You should endeavor to fit
yourself for wider and higher spheres of action."

"In the meantime, however, my life must be got through some way. If I can
help others to be happier, surely my time cannot be quite wasted; and I
may the easier render my final account."

"Ah, that's a perplexing question--our final settlement for the deeds of
this life."

I looked my surprise at his tone of voice.

"You have not learned yet, Medoline, to doubt. Very well, never begin.
It's horrible having no sure anchor to hold by when death forces one into
unknown oceans, or shipwrecks with annihilation."

"Death never can do that, if we trust in Christ, who turned our last
enemy into a blessed angel."

"Your faith is very beautiful, and is, no doubt, sufficient for your
utmost intellectual needs; and by all means hold to it as you would to
your life."

"I think it is the same that St. Paul, and Martin Luther, and John
Milton, and a thousand, yes a million other noblest intellects, held
firmly. Surely it will serve for me."

"You are satisfied, then, to think with the crowd?"

"Yes, until something more reasonable is given me than God's word and
revealed religion. But, Mr. Winthrop, I am only a heard believer. I am
not a Christian, really."

"If I believed the Bible as you do, I would not risk my soul one half
hour without complying with every command of the Scriptures. You who so
firmly believe, and yet live without the change of heart imperatively
demanded by the Bible, are the most foolhardy beings probably in the
entire universe."

"Are we any more foolish than those who dare to doubt with the same
evidence that we possess?"

"Possibly not; but I think you are."

I was silent; for there came to me a sudden consciousness that Mr.
Winthrop was right. I had no doubts about the great truths of our
religion; and what excuse then could I offer for not accepting them to
the very utmost of my human need?


CHAPTER XI.

CITY LIFE.


In the late evening the lights from the restless, crowded city began to
twinkle in the distance, and shortly another living freight was borne
safely within its shelter. Mr. Winthrop had met a friend who came into
the car, a station or two back, and had grown so absorbed in conversation
that he paid no heed to the people hurrying out into the night. Mrs.
Flaxman was aroused by the commotion and glanced around uneasily, but did
not like to interrupt Mr. Winthrop's eager conversation. Besides, she
comforted herself with the belief that our train would probably lay in
New York for the night. At last Mr. Winthrop came to escort us out. "I
believe we have no time to spare. I did not notice that we had reached
our terminus."

"It is no use denying the fact; men are greater talkers than women," I
remarked seriously.

"Why so?" he asked, pausing with satchel suspended, awaiting my answer.

"Why, no two women on the continent would get so absorbed in each other
as to forget they had reached their journey's end, and had need to be in
a hurry."

"Probably not; their topics would be too trivial to claim so much
attention."

I found the reply unanswerable, and hastened after Mrs. Flaxman, who
was already out of sight. When we reached the door the cars were in
motion.--"What shall we do?" I cried, anxiously. "I could never get off
while the cars were moving." I caught a glimpse of Mrs. Flaxman's scared
face as we went past.

"Leave me and go to Mrs. Flaxman. A man can jump easily, I am sure," I
pleaded, finding that we were moving out of the station, and actually on
the road again.

"And what will you do?" he asked very calmly.

"I have plenty of money in my pocket, and can pay my way back by the next
train," I said, hurriedly.

"You would travel alone at midnight to save Mrs. Flaxman a trifling
anxiety?"

"I won't be frightened, and she will be so worried there, all alone among
strangers," I pleaded.

"Mrs. Flaxman knows our hotel. She will be safe when she reaches there,
which will be in a few minutes now. So you need not be troubled about
her. I shall not leave you," he said, decidedly.

We went back into the car, which was nearly empty; but, some way, I felt
as content and safe as if we had joined Mrs. Flaxman at the hotel. Mr.
Winthrop sat near, but he did not seem in a mood just then for
conversation. I think he felt chagrined at his carelessness, but I was
wicked enough to enjoy it. I leaned my head back against my easy-chair
and furtively watched my guardian, as he sat writing in a large blank
book which he took from his pocket after awhile. I had never before had
such opportunity to study, in repose, the strong, intellectual face. As
I watched the varying moods of his mind, while he thought and wrote, it
reminded me of cloud-swept meadows on a summer's day--the sunshine
succeeding the shadow. I fancied that the mask which conceals the
workings of the spirit life became partly transparent and luminous, and I
seemed to see poetic fancy and noble thoughts weaving their wondrous webs
back somewhere in the fastnesses of the soul. And then I glanced around
at the other occupants of the car; and, fancy being alert, all their
faces reminded me of so many masks, with the real individual sheltered
behind in its own secure fastness, and all the while industriously
weaving the web of life; always vigilant, ever throwing the shuttle;
whether wisely or foolishly, only the resultant action could determine.
But the faces grew indistinct; the steady movement back and forth of the
writer's hand no longer interested me, for I was asleep. I do not know
how long I had slept. My hat had slipped to the floor; my heavy coils of
hair, usually difficult to keep in proper control, had unloosened by the
constant motion of the car and fallen in heavy rings about my shoulders.
I opened my eyes suddenly to find that my guardian had put away his
writing, and was standing near, regarding me, I fancied, with a look
of displeasure.

"I did not mean to fall asleep," I faltered, while I quickly coiled up my
hair, and put on my hat.

"It is my fault you slept in this public place. I had forgotten about
you."

I looked at him with an admiration almost amounting to awe, thinking how
engrossed he must have become in his own thoughts to have forgotten me so
perfectly; and then I speculated on the irony of fate in placing one so
unconventional as I under the care of a man so exceedingly fastidious.

I was standing beside him. In my excitement, when awakening, I had
started to my feet, but with difficulty maintained my position; for my
head was dizzy with the sudden start from sound sleep, together with the
unaccustomed hour for traveling. Glancing at my watch, I saw that it was
past midnight. I think Mr. Winthrop noticed my weariness, for he said,
rather grimly:

"It is too bad, having you out late two nights in succession."

I remembered his gift for Mr. Bowen, and was silent.

"At the next station we will be able to change cars for New York. The
conductor tells me we shall only be compelled to wait a short time."

"I will rest then until we get there," I said, no doubt very wearily, for
I felt not only dizzy, but slightly faint, and sank into my chair. He
looked down at me, and then said, in more gentle fashion than he had ever
before addressed me:

"I am very sorry, Medoline, to have caused you so much needless fatigue."

I quite forgot my weariness then. It was so comforting to know he could
acknowledge regret for anything, and that his heart was not made of
flint, as, unconfessed to myself, I had partly imagined.

I looked up brightly. "I do not know if I am not rather glad than sorry
that we have shown ourselves such forgetful travelers. It will be
something unusual to remember."

"That is a very kindly way to look on my forgetfulness--rather, I should
say, stupidity." He sat down then, and the short remaining distance we
passed in silence.

We were both very prompt in responding to the summons given by the
conductor when our station was reached. The waiting-room was well lighted
and warmed, and a welcome odor of food pervaded the air. I resolved to
make a little foray on my own account, to secure, if possible, a bit of
luncheon; but, after seeing me comfortably seated by a hot stove, Mr.
Winthrop left, only to return in a few moments with the welcome
announcement that refreshments were awaiting us. I expressed my surprise
that food should be in readiness at that unseasonable hour.

"Oh, I telegraphed an hour ago to have it prepared," he replied.

"Then I was sleeping a good while," I said, ruefully.

"An hour or two. I only wakened you in time to collect yourself for
changing cars."

"And you have not slept at all?"

"Scarcely. I do not permit myself that luxury in public."

I was silenced, but not so far crushed as to lose my appetite. A cup of
tea, such as Mrs. Flaxman never brewed for me, effectually banished sleep
for the rest of the night. The journey back was tiresome, the car
crowded, and the long night seemed interminable. I was wedged in beside a
stout old gentleman, whose breath was disagreeably suggestive of stale
brandy, while a wheezy cough disturbed him as well as myself. He looked
well to do, and was inclined to be friendly; but his eyes had a peculiar
expression that repelled me. Mr. Winthrop had got a seat some distance
behind me. By twisting my neck uncomfortably, I could get a reassuring
glimpse of his broad shoulders and handsome face. At last he came to
me. I half rose, for my aged companion was making me nervous with his
anxiety for my comfort.

"We will go into the next car; it may not be so crowded," he said, taking
my satchel. Fortunately we found a vacant seat; and I began to feel very
safe and content with him again at my side.

"I do not think your late traveling companion could have been a widower,
or you would not have been so eager to get away. The look of appeal on
your face, when I got an occasional glimpse of it, was enough to melt
one's heart."

I laughed in spite of myself. "It never occurred to me to ask, but he
certainly is not a woman hater," I said, with a flush, as I mentally
recalled some of his gracious remarks. I made my replies in brief and
stately dignity; or at least as much of the latter as I could command,
but he was not easily repulsed. Feeling so secure and sheltered now, my
thoughts went out to the unprotected of my sex cast among the evil and
heartless, to fight their way purely amid bleakness and sin. I shuddered
unconsciously. Mr. Winthrop turned to me.

"Are you cold?" he asked.

"Oh, no, I was only thinking," I stammered.

"I would cease thinking if the thoughts were so blood-curdling. May I ask
what they were?"

"I was pitying poor girls who have to make their way alone in this wicked
world."

He was silent for some time, and then said gravely: "Your instincts are
very keen. That gray-haired gentleman happens to be a person I know
something about, and his very presence is enough to contaminate."

I was amazed that he so easily understood my meaning. The sun was
reddening the sky, which seemed so pure and still compared with the
sinful, noisy city that, for an instant, a homesick longing seized me to
escape to its clear, beautiful depths. When we reached the hotel I was
cold, and feeling very cheerless; but a comfortable looking maid, not
half so overwhelming as our Esmerelda, conducted me to a pleasant room,
and soon had a bright fire burning, and a cozy breakfast spread on a
little table just in front of the grate. I was not hungry, but I took the
cup of hot chocolate Mr. Winthrop had ordered, and nibbled a bit of
toast; and then, drawing an easy-chair in front of the fire, soon fell
into a luxurious sleep, from which I did not waken for several hours. The
maid came in occasionally to replenish the fire, but her light movements
did not disturb me. Afterward I found the hotel was not a public one, but
a private affair, patronized mainly by a number of old families whose
parents and children had come and gone for nearly half a century. The
room I occupied, Mrs. Flaxman told me, was the very one my own dear
mother had occupied as a bride; and hence Mr. Winthrop had secured it for
me. It was the best in the house, I found later on. That evening, after
I had wakened refreshed, and eager to see and hear all that was possible
in this new wonderland, Mrs. Flaxman, still a little nervous after her
journey and anxiety on my account, came and sat with me; and to atone
for keeping me in the house, told me stories of that beautiful, far-away
time when she had seen my mother in that same room in the first joy of
wifehood, and described my father as the proud, happy bridegroom, gazing
with more than a lover's fondness on the beautiful girl who had left all
for him, and yet in the renunciation had found no sacrifice. She
described the rich silken gown with its rare, old lace, and the diamonds
she wore at her first party in New York. "Mr. Winthrop has them, your
mother's diamonds and all her jewelry. In being an only child like
yourself, she inherited all her own mother's. They are all safely stored
at his bankers, and I think he means to give them to you soon, or at
least a part of them."

"I did not know I had any except what I brought with me from school," I
said, with a shade of regret to be so long in ignorance of such a
pleasant fact. Mrs. Flaxman smiled as she asked:

"Did you never hear your schoolmates talk of the family plate and
jewelry?"

"Oh, yes; there were a few stupid ones who had very little brains to be
proud of; so they used to try and make up for the lack by telling us
about such things; but we reckoned a good essay writer worth a good deal
more than these plate owners."

"There must have been great changes since I was at school. I believe the
rising generation is developing a nobler ambition than their predecessors
possessed."

"I should hope so," I said, with girlish scorn; "as if such mere
accidents as birth and the ownership of plate and jewelry could give one
higher rank than intellect. Why, I believe that is the scarcest thing in
all the universe."

"It does seem ridiculous," Mrs. Flaxman said reflectively, "but it is
hard escaping from the spirit of the age in which we live. It would be
easy to hold such things lightly in those heroic days in Greece when
Lycurgus cheapened the gold and things the masses held most precious."

"One can have a little republic in their own soul as well as Lycurgus,
and indulge unforced in high thinking. I think that would be really more
creditable than if every one agreed to do so by act of senate."

"It would be a grand thing for every one to get the dross all burned away
from their nature and only have the pure gold left."

"Don't you think, Mrs. Flaxman, with a good many people, after the
burning process, there would be so little left it would take a whole
flock of them to make a decent sized individual?"

She laughed softly. "I never thought of it in that way. I am afraid now
I will get to undressing my acquaintances, to try and find out how much
that will be fit to take into higher existences they have in their
composition."

"Mr. Winthrop is a very uncomfortable sort of person to live with, but I
think he will have more noble qualities to carry somewhere after death
than the average of my acquaintances. What a pity it is for such splendid
powers of mind to be lost! He has the materials in him to make a grand
angel."

Mrs. Flaxman looked up quickly.

"You cannot think it is his ultimate destiny to be lost?" she questioned.

"He doesn't believe in the Bible. What hope can he have that we will ever
get to heaven?"

"A multitude of prayers are piled between him and perdition. His mother
was a saintly character, whose dying breath was a prayer for him; and
there are others who have taken his case daily to the mercy seat for
years."

"I wish I had some one to pray for me," I said rather fretfully.

"My dear, I do not know any one who has more leisure to pray for
themselves than you have."

I was surprised to hear her speak so lightly on such a solemn subject;
but as I thought the matter over afterward, I could but acknowledge that
she had answered me just as I deserved.


CHAPTER XII.

NEW ACQUAINTANCES.


Mrs. Flaxman's fears were realized. She was detained from her pickles and
preserves for over a fortnight; but the days spent then in the city were
an entirely new revelation of life to me. Mr. Winthrop had a circle of
literary friends, who seemed determined to make his stay so pleasant
that he would not be in a hurry to return to the solitude of Oaklands.
When I saw his keen enjoyment of their society, and the many varied
privileges he had in that brief period--musical, artistic, and literary,
I was filled with surprise that he should make his home at Oaklands at
all, and expressed my wonder to Mrs. Flaxman.

"Oh, he often goes away--sometimes to Europe, and sometimes to the great
American centres of thought and life; then he comes home apparently glad
of its quiet and freedom from interruption. I think he uses up all the
raw experiences and ideas he gets when away."

I thought her reply over, and wondered if it was the usual habit of
literary people to go out on those foraging expeditions and bring back
material to be used up in weeks of solitude. We were either out among
friends, at concerts, lectures, evening gatherings, or else receiving Mr.
Winthrop's particular friends at our hotel, every evening. I enjoyed
those evenings at home, I think, the very best of all. We sat late,
supper being served about midnight--a plain, sensible repast that, with
a man of Mr. Winthrop's means, might certainly betoken high thinking.
However, the intellectual repast served to us reminded me of the feasts
of the gods, or even better, in old Homeric times. There were condensed
thoughts that often kept me puzzling over their meanings long after their
words had died on the air. Mrs. Flaxman sat, a mostly silent listener,
but in no wise showing weariness at the lateness of the hour, or mental
strain imposed in following such abstract lines of thought. I too
listened silently, save in reply to some direct remark, but with pained,
growing thoughts, that often left me utterly weary when the little
company dispersed. I would often stop listening and fall into vague,
hopeless speculations as to the number of centuries that must elapse
before I could overtake them. Saddest fancy of all was that my powers
might be too limited even to do this. Our daylight hours were, in great
measure, passed in making and receiving calls from Mrs. Flaxman's
friends, who seemed very quick to find out she was there, and in visiting
the huge dressmaking and dry goods establishments which she patronized. I
found it quite difficult, at times, to reconcile the fact that those we
met by day were, in the main, created in the same mental likeness as
those I listened to with such admiration in the evening. I used to close
my eyes at times and fancy the old heathen, mythology to be true, and
that the gods were actually revisiting the earth, and bringing with them
the high conceptions from Olympus, I was able more clearly than ever to
recognize how high were Mr. Winthrop's ideals, so far as this world goes,
of human excellence and, with deepest humiliation, remembered how far I
must have come short of his lowest standards. I went to Mrs. Flaxman with
this new and painful discovery, and as usual, she brought her
consolation.

"Very few can hope to attain such excellence of culture and intellect as
these men possess. You and I ought to be grateful to our Creator if he
has given us brain power sufficient to appreciate and comprehend their
words. I know it has given Mr. Winthrop deep satisfaction to see you so
interested in their conversation."

"How do you know that?" I asked, pleased at her words.

"I look at him sometimes while you get so absorbed listening that you
seem to forget everything; and I see the gratified expression of his
face while he watches you. I know it would be a disappointment to him if
you should develop into a fashionable, feather-headed woman."

"Or a widow-helping philanthropist," I said, laughing.

"Of the two, he would prefer the latter."

"But neither would be his ideal."

"I am not altogether certain of that; but I do know he holds in strong
dislike a woman who simply exists to follow the fashions, no matter how
attractive she may be."

"I am ashamed to say I like getting new things, especially when they are
becoming," I said, a little shamefacedly.

"I am sure you would get tired of a perpetual round of new hats and
frocks, and trying them on, I am not apt to be mistaken in a person."

"But it is vastly easier to think of harmonious colors and combinations
of dry goods, than it is to puzzle over those knotty subjects we listen
to here in the evening, or to translate Chopin or Wagner, or the other
great masters."

"But once mastering any of these, the pleasure arising therefrom gives
satisfaction to a noble cast of mind that a whole gallery of Worth's
choicest costumes could not produce."

"Solomon said: Much study is a weariness of the flesh."

"Solomon was an intellectual dyspeptic. But granting that it is a
weariness, it is something that pays well for the weariness."

"If all the world were to come to Mr. Winthrop's way of thinking, it
would be a sad thing for the dressmakers."

"Not necessarily. They would still be needed, but they would do the
thinking about what would best suit the style of their respective
customers; and the latter would be left free of that special task,
to devote their minds to their own interior furnishing."

Forbid it; 'tis an ill thing to let the dog once taste of pudding.

Battus. But I, Milon, am in love for almost eleven days!

Milan. 'Tis easily seen that thou drawest from a wine-cask, while even
vinegar is scarce with me.

Battus. And for Love's sake, the fields before my doors are untilled
since seed-time.

Milan. But which of the girls afflicts thee so?

Battus. The daughter of Polybotas, she that of late was wont to pipe to
the reapers on Hippocoon's farm.

Milan. God has found out the guilty!

Thou hast what thou'st long been seeking, that grasshopper of a girl will
lie by thee the night long!

Battus. Thou art beginning thy mocks of me, but Plutus is not the only
blind god; he too is blind, the heedless Love! Beware of talking
big.

Milan. Talk big I do not! Only see that thou dust level the corn,
and strike up some love-ditty in the wench's praise.

More pleasantly thus wilt thou labour, and, indeed, of old thou wert
a melodist.

Battus. Ye Muses Pierian, sing ye with me the slender maiden, for
whatsoever ye do but touch, ye goddesses, ye make wholly fair.

They all call thee a GIPSY, gracious Bombyca, and LEAN, and SUNBURNT, 'tis
only I that call thee HONEY-PALE.

Yea, and the violet is swart, and swart the lettered hyacinth, but
yet these flowers are chosen the first in garlands.

The goat runs after cytisus, the wolf pursues the goat, the crane
follows the plough, but I am wild for love of thee.

Would it were mine, all the wealth whereof once Croesus was lord, as
men tell! Then images of us twain, all in gold, should be dedicated to
Aphrodite, thou with thy flute, and a rose, yea, or an apple, and I
in fair attire, and new shoon of Amyclae on both my feet.

Ah gracious Bombyca, thy feet are fashioned like carven ivory,
thy voice is drowsy sweet, and thy ways, I cannot tell of them!

{57}
Milan. Verily our clown was a maker of lovely songs, and we knew
it not!

How well he meted out and shaped his harmony; woe is me for the beard
that I have grown, all in vain!

Come, mark thou too these lines of godlike Lityerses
THE LITYERSES SONG.

Demeter, rich in fruit, and rich in grain, may this corn be easy to win,
and fruitful exceedingly!

Bind, ye bandsters, the sheaves, lest the wayfarer should cry, 'Men
of straw were the workers here, ay, and their hire was wasted!'

See that the cut stubble faces the North wind, or the West, 'tis thus
the grain waxes richest.

They that thresh corn should shun the noon-day steep; at noon the
chaff parts easiest from the straw.

As for the reapers, let them begin when the crested lark is waking, and
cease when he sleeps, but take holiday in the heat.

Lads, the frog has a jolly life, he is not cumbered about a butler to his
drink, for he has liquor by him unstinted!

Boil the lentils better, thou miserly steward; take heed lest thou chop
thy fingers, when thou'rt splitting cumin-seed.

'Tis thus that men should sing who labour i' the sun, but thy starveling
love, thou clod, 'twere fit to tell to thy mother when she stirs
in bed at dawning.

IDYL XI--THE CYCLOPS IN LOVE

Nicias, the physician and poet, being in love, Theocritus reminds him that
in song lies the only remedy.

It was by song, he says, that the Cyclops, Polyphemus, got him some
ease, when he was in love with Galatea, the sea-nymph.

The idyl displays, in the most graceful manner, the Alexandrian taste for
turning Greek mythology into love stories. No creature could be more
remote from love than the original Polyphemus, the cannibal giant
of the Odyssey.

There is none other medicine, Nicias, against Love, neither unguent,
methinks, nor salve to sprinkle,--none, save the Muses of Pieria!
Now a delicate thing is their minstrelsy in man's life, and a sweet,
but hard to procure.

Methinks thou know'st this well, who art thyself a leech, and beyond
all men art plainly dear to the Muses nine.

'Twas surely thus the Cyclops fleeted his life most easily, he that
dwelt among us,--Polyphemus of old time,--when the beard was yet
young on his cheek and chin; and he loved Galatea.

He loved, not with apples, not roses, nor locks of hair, but with fatal
frenzy, and all things else he held but trifles by the way.

Many a time from the green pastures would his ewes stray back, self-shepherded,
to the fold. But he was singing of Galatea, and pining in his place
he sat by the sea-weed of the beach, from the dawn of day, with
the direst hurt beneath his breast of mighty Cypris's sending,--the
wound of her arrow in his heart!

Yet this remedy he found, and sitting on the crest of the tall cliff, and
looking to the deep, 'twas thus he would sing:-
Song of the Cyclops.

O milk-white Galatea, why cast off him that loves thee? More white than
is pressed milk to look upon, more delicate than the lamb art thou,
than the young calf wantoner, more sleek than the unripened grape! Here
dust thou resort, even so, when sweet sleep possesses me, and home
straightway dost thou depart when sweet sleep lets me go, fleeing me
like an ewe that has seen the grey wolf.

I fell in love with thee, maiden, I, on the day when first thou camest,
with my mother, and didst wish to pluck the hyacinths from the
hill, and I was thy guide on the way.

But to leave loving thee, when once I had seen thee, neither afterward,
nor now at all, have I the strength, even from that hour.

But to thee all this is as nothing, by Zeus, nay, nothing at all!

I know, thou gracious maiden, why it is that thou dust shun me.

It is all for the shaggy brow that spans all my forehead, from this
to the other ear, one long unbroken eyebrow.

And but one eye is on my forehead, and broad is the nose that overhangs
my lip.

Yet I (even such as thou seest me) feed a thousand cattle, and from these
I draw and drink the best milk in the world.

And cheese I never lack, in summer time or autumn, nay, nor in the
dead of winter, but my baskets are always overladen.

Also I am skilled in piping, as none other of the Cyclopes here, and
of thee, my love, my sweet-apple, and of myself too I sing, many
a time, deep in the night.

And for thee I tend eleven fawns, all crescent-browed, {61} and four
young whelps of the bear.

Nay, come thou to me, and thou shalt lack nothing that now thou
hast.
Leave the grey sea to roll against the land; more sweetly, in this
cavern, shalt thou fleet the night with me!

Thereby the laurels grow, and there the slender cypresses, there is the
ivy dun, and the sweet clustered grapes; there is chill water, that
for me deep-wooded AEtna sends down from the white snow, a draught
divine!

Ah who, in place of these, would choose the sea to dwell in, or the waves
of the sea?

But if thou dust refuse because my body seems shaggy and rough,
well, I have faggots of oakwood, and beneath the ashes is fire
unwearied, and I would endure to let thee burn my very soul, and
this my one eye, the dearest thing that is mine.

Ah me, that my mother bore me not a finny thing, so would I have
gone down to thee, and kissed thy hand, if thy lips thou would not
suffer me to kiss!

And I would have brought thee either white lilies, or the soft poppy with
its scarlet petals.

Nay, these are summer's flowers, and those are flowers of winter, so I
could not have brought thee them all at one time.

Now, verily, maiden, now and here will I learn to swim, if perchance some
stranger come hither, sailing with his ship, that I may see why it is so
dear to thee, to have thy dwelling in the deep.

Come forth, Galatea, and forget as thou comest, even as I that sit
here have forgotten, the homeward way! Nay, choose with me to go
shepherding, with me to milk the flocks, and to pour the sharp rennet
in, and to fix the cheeses.

There is none that wrongs me but that mother of mine, and her do I blame.
Never, nay, never once has she spoken a kind word for me to thee, and
that though day by day she beholds me wasting.

I will tell her that my head, and both my feet are throbbing, that
she may somewhat suffer, since I too am suffering.

O Cyclops, Cyclops, whither are thy wits wandering?

Ah that thou wouldst go, and weave thy wicker-work, and gather
broken boughs to carry to thy lambs: in faith, if thou didst this,
far wiser wouldst thou be!

Milk the ewe that thou hast, why pursue the thing that shuns thee?
Thou wilt find, perchance, another, and a fairer Galatea. Many be the
girls that bid me play with them through the night, and softly they
all laugh, if perchance I answer them. On land it is plain that I too
seem to be somebody!

Lo, thus Polyphemus still shepherded his love with song, and lived lighter
than if he had given gold for ease.

IDYL XII--THE PASSIONATE FRIEND

This is rather a lyric than an idyl, being an expression of that singular
passion which existed between men in historical Greece. The next idyl,
like the Myrmidons of Aeschylus, attributes the same manners to mythical
and heroic Greece. It should be unnecessary to say that the
affection between Homeric warriors, like Achilles and Patroclus,
was only that of companions in arms and was quite unlike the later
sentiment.

Hast thou come, dear youth, with the third night and the dawning;
hast thou come?

but men in longing grow old in a day! As spring than the winter is
sweeter, as the apple than the sloe, as the ewe is deeper of fleece
than the lamb she bore; as a maiden surpasses a thrice-wedded wife,
as the fawn is nimbler than the calf; nay, by as much as sweetest
of all fowls sings the clear-voiced nightingale, so much has thy
coming gladdened me!

To thee have I hastened as the traveller hastens under the burning
sun to the shadow of the ilex tree.

Ah, would that equally the Loves may breathe upon us twain, may we become
a song in the ears of all men unborn.

'Lo, a pair were these two friends among the folk of former time,' the
one 'the Knight' (so the Amyclaeans call him), the other, again, 'the
Page,' so styled in speech of Thessaly.

'An equal yoke of friendship they bore: ah, surely then there were
golden men of old, when friends gave love for love!'

And would, O father Cronides, and would, ye ageless immortals, that
this might be; and that when two hundred generations have sped, one
might bring these tidings to me by Acheron, the irremeable stream.

'The loving-kindness that was between thee and thy gracious friend,
is even now in all men's mouths, and chiefly on the lips of the
young.'

Nay, verily, the gods of heaven will be masters of these things, to rule
them as they will, but when I praise thy graciousness no blotch
that punishes the perjurer shall spring upon the tip of my nose!

Nay, if ever thou hast somewhat pained me, forthwith thou healest the
hurt, giving a double delight, and I depart with my cup full and running
over!

Nisaean men of Megara, ye champions of the oars, happily may ye dwell,
for that ye honoured above all men the Athenian stranger, even
Diodes, the true lover.

Always about his tomb the children gather in their companies, at the
coming in of the spring, and contend for the prize of kissing.

And whoso most sweetly touches lip to lip, laden with garlands he returneth
to his mother. Happy is he that judges those kisses of the children;
surely he prays most earnestly to bright-faced Ganymedes, that his
lips may be as the Lydian touchstone wherewith the money-changers
try gold lest, perchance base metal pass for true.

IDYL XIII--HYLAS AND HERACLES

As in the eleventh Idyl, Nicias is again addressed, by way of
introduction to the story of Hylas. This beautiful lad, a favourite
companion of Heracles, took part in the Quest of the Fleece of Gold.

As he went to draw water from a fountain, the water-nymphs dragged him down
to their home, and Heracles, after a long and vain search, was compelled
to follow the heroes of the Quest on foot to Phasis.

Not for us only, Nicias, as we were used to deem, was Love begotten,
by whomsoever of the Gods was the father of the child; not first
to us seemed beauty beautiful, to us that are mortal men and look not
on the morrow. Nay, but the son of Amphitryon, that heart of bronze,
who abode the wild lion's onset, loved a lad, beautiful Hylas--Hylas of
the braided locks, and he taught him all things as a father teaches his
child, all whereby himself became a mighty man, and renowned in minstrelsy.
Never was he apart from Hylas, not when midnoon was high in heaven, not
when Dawn with her white horses speeds upwards to the dwelling of Zeus,
not when the twittering nestlings look towards the perch, while their
mother flaps her wings above the smoke-browned beam; and all this that
the lad might be fashioned to his mind, and might drive a straight
furrow, and come to the true measure of man.

But when Iason, Aeson's son, was sailing after the fleece of gold
(and with him followed the champions, the first chosen out of all
the cities, they that were of most avail), to rich Iolcos too came
the mighty man and adventurous, the son of the woman of Midea, noble
Alcmene.

With him went down Hylas also, to Argo of the goodly benches, the
ship that grazed not on the clashing rocks Cyanean, but through she
sped and ran into deep Phasis, as an eagle over the mighty gulf of
the sea.

And the clashing rocks stand fixed, even from that hour!

Now at the rising of the Pleiades, when the upland fields begin to
pasture the young lambs, and when spring is already on the wane,
then the flower divine of Heroes bethought them of sea-faring.

On board the hollow Argo they sat down to the oars, and to the Hellespont
they came when the south wind had been for three days blowing, and
made their haven within Propontis, where the oxen of the Cianes
wear bright the ploughshare, as they widen the furrows.

Then they went forth upon the shore, and each couple busily got
ready supper in the late evening, and many as they were one bed
they strewed lowly on the ground, for they found a meadow lying,
rich in couches of strown grass and leaves.

Thence they cut them pointed flag-leaves, and deep marsh-galingale. And
Hylas of the yellow hair, with a vessel of bronze in his hand,
went to draw water against suppertime, for Heracles himself, and
the steadfast Telamon, for these comrades twain supped ever at one
table.

Soon was he ware of a spring, in a hollow land, and the rushes grew
thickly round it, and dark swallow-wort, and green maiden-hair, and blooming
parsley, and deer-grass spreading through the marshy land.

In the midst of the water the nymphs were arraying their dances,
the sleepless nymphs, dread goddesses of the country people, Eunice,
and Malis, and Nycheia, with her April eyes.

And now the boy was holding out the wide-mouthed pitcher to the
water, intent on dipping it, but the nymphs all clung to his hand,
for love of the Argive lad had fluttered the soft hearts of all of
them.

Then down he sank into the black water, headlong all, as when a star
shoots flaming from the sky, plumb in the deep it falls, and a
mate shouts out to the seamen, 'Up with the gear, my lads, the wind
is fair for sailing.'

Then the nymphs held the weeping boy on their laps, and with gentle
words were striving to comfort him.

But the son of Amphitryon was troubled about the lad, and went
forth, carrying his bended bow in Scythian fashion, and the club
that is ever grasped in his right hand.

Thrice he shouted 'Hylas!' as loud as his deep throat could call, and
thrice again the boy heard him, and thin came his voice from the
water, and, hard by though he was, he seemed very far away.

And as when a bearded lion, a ravening lion on the hills, hears the bleating
of a fawn afar off, and rushes forth from his lair to seize it, his
readiest meal, even so the mighty Heracles, in longing for the lad, sped
through the trackless briars, and ranged over much country.

Reckless are lovers: great toils did Heracles bear, in hills and thickets
wandering, and Iason's quest was all postponed to this.

Now the ship abode with her tackling aloft, and the company gathered
there, {70} but at midnight the young men were lowering the sails
again, awaiting Heracles.

But he wheresoever his feet might lead him went wandering in his
fury, for the cruel Goddess of love was rending his heart within
him.

Thus loveliest Hylas is numbered with the Blessed, but for a runaway
they girded at Heracles, the heroes, because he roamed from Argo
of the sixty oarsmen.

But on foot he came to Colchis and inhospitable Phasis.

IDYL XIV

This Idyl, like the next, is dramatic in form. One Aeschines tells Thyonichus
the story of his quarrel with his mistress Cynisca. He speaks of taking
foreign service, and Thyonichus recommends that of Ptolemy. The idyl was
probably written at Alexandria, as a compliment to Ptolemy, and an inducement
to Greeks to join his forces. There is nothing, however, to fix the
date.

Aeschines. All hail to the stout Thyonichus!

Thyonichus. As much to you, Aeschines.

Aeschines.

How long it is since we met!

Thyonichus. Is it so long? But why, pray, this melancholy?

Aeschines. I am not in the best of luck, Thyonichus.

Thyonichus. 'Tis for that, then, you are so lean, and hence comes this
long moustache, and these love-locks all adust.

Just such a figure was a Pythagorean that came here of late, barefoot and
wan,-- and said he was an Athenian. Marry, he too was in love, methinks,
with a plate of pancakes.

Aeschines.

Friend, you will always have your jest,--but beautiful Cynisca,--she
flouts me!

I shall go mad some day, when no man looks for it; I am but a
hair's-breadth on the hither side, even now.

Thyonichus. You are ever like this, dear Aeschines, now mad, now sad, and
crying for all things at your whim. Yet, tell me, what is your new
trouble?

Aeschines.

The Argive, and I, and the Thessalian rough rider, Apis, and
Cleunichus the free lance, were drinking together, at my farm. I had
killed two chickens, and a sucking pig, and had opened the Bibline
wine for them,--nearly four years old,--but fragrant as when it
left the wine-press.

Truffles and shellfish had been brought out, it was a jolly drinking
match.

And when things were now getting forwarder, we determined that each of
us should toast whom he pleased, in unmixed wine, only he must name his
toast.

So we all drank, and called our toasts as had been agreed. Yet She said
nothing, though I was there; how think you I liked that? 'Won't
you call a toast? You have seen the wolf!' some one said in jest, 'as the
proverb goes,' {72} then she kindled; yes, you could easily have lighted
a lamp at her face. There is one Wolf, one Wolf there is, the son of
Labes our neighbour,--he is tall, smooth-skinned, many think him handsome.
His was that illustrious love in which she was pining, yes, and a
breath about the business once came secretly to my ears, but I never
looked into it, beshrew my beard!

Already, mark you, we four men were deep in our cups, when the Larissa
man out of mere mischief, struck up, 'My Wolf,' some Thessalian catch,
from the very beginning. Then Cynisca suddenly broke out weeping more
bitterly than a six-year-old maid, that longs for her mother's lap.
Then I,--you know me, Thyonichus,--struck her on the cheek with clenched
fist,--one two! She caught up her robes, and forth she rushed, quicker
than she came. 'Ah, my undoing' (cried I), 'I am not good enough for you,
then--you have a dearer playfellow? well, be off and cherish your other
lover, 'tis for him your tears run big as apples!' {73}
And as the swallow flies swiftly back to gather a morsel, fresh
food, for her young ones under the eaves, still swifter sped she
from her soft chair, straight through the vestibule and folding-doors,
wherever her feet carried her.

So, sure, the old proverb says, 'the bull has sought the wild wood.'
Since then there are twenty days, and eight to these, and nine
again, then ten others, to-day is the eleventh, add two more, and it is
two months since we parted, and I have not shaved, not even in
Thracian fashion. {74a}
And now Wolf is everything with her. Wolf finds the door open o' nights,
and I am of no account, not in the reckoning, like the wretched
men of Megara, in the place dishonourable. {74b}
And if I could cease to love, the world would wag as well as may be.
But now,--now,--as they say, Thyonichus, I am like the mouse that has
tasted pitch. And what remedy there may be for a bootless love, I know
not; except that Simus, he who was in love with the daughter of
Epicalchus, went over seas, and came back heart-whole,--a man of
my own age.

And I too will cross the water, and prove not the first, maybe, nor the
last, perhaps, but a fair soldier as times go.

Thyonichus. Would that things had gone to your mind, Aeschines.

But if, in good earnest, you are thus set on going into exile, PTOLEMY
is the free man's best paymaster!

Aeschines.

And in other respects, what kind of man?

Thyonichus. The free man's best paymaster! Indulgent too, the Muses'
darling, a true lover, the top of good company, knows his friends,
and still better knows his enemies.

I am not so sensitive as Mr.
Winthrop to a few false notes now and then. The composer has more power
to give me pain than the performers, I believe."

"I should say, then, that your comprehension of music was more subtle
than his."

"I do not pretend to compare myself with Mr. Winthrop in any way. It
would be like the minnow claiming fellowship with the leviathan."

Mr. Winthrop suggested very politely:--

"Humility is becoming until it grows abject."

"Your guardian is an incorrigible bachelor. Ladies do not get the
slightest mercy from him," Mr. Bovyer remarked.

"I have ceased to look for any," I said, with an evenness of voice that
surprised me.

"I am glad to find myself in such good company," Mr. Winthrop said, with
a graceful bend of the head, which included each of his guests in the
list of single blessed ones.

"Are you all going to be old bachelors?" I asked, forgetting myself in
the surprise of the moment.

"I am not aware that we are all irrevocably committed to that terrible
fate," Mr. Bovyer said, as he united in the general smile at my expense.

"It might be more terrible for some of your wives than if you remained
single. I think some persons are fore-ordained to live single." I looked
steadily in the fire lest my eyes might betray too much.

"Do you imagine those blighted lives are confined solely to one sex?" Mr.
Winthrop blandly inquired.

"Oh, no; nature does not confine her oddities to one sex; but a woman can
better conceal the lack of a human heart and sympathies."

"You mean they are better actresses?"

"Yes, I think so."

"I must tell you, gentlemen, this little ward of mine is a natural
philanthropist. You would be amazed to see how she sympathizes with
widows and the broken-hearted of both sexes. I have been forced to limit
her charities to a certain yearly amount lest her husband may one day
call me to account for her wasted means."

"It is the most beautiful trait in womankind." Mr. Bovyer responded,
heartily, just as a passionate retort had sprung to my lips. The second's
interruption gave me time to regain my self-control; but the color flamed
over brow and cheek as I rose and walked to the farther end of the room
and stood turning over the leaves of a book lying on the table. I could
still hear what was said and was surprised that Mr. Winthrop turned the
conversation so cleverly into other channels. It was growing late, and
before long the guests retired. Mr. Bovyer, as he shook hands with me,
said: "You have not answered my question yet. Will you come to the
Philharmonic to-morrow evening?"

I looked to Mr. Winthrop for a reply.

"I think you must deny yourself that pleasure, as we shall probably go
home to-morrow."

"So soon?" I asked with surprise.

"The time I limited myself to expired yesterday. We can return this
winter, and complete any unfinished business or pleasure that you now
leave undone."

"My business is finished. It happens to be a pleasure to return to
Oaklands."

I murmured my thanks to Mr. Bovyer, and withdrew the hand he was still
holding.

When we were at last alone, Mrs. Flaxman drew her chair near the fire and
settling back comfortably as if she were in no hurry to retire, said very
seriously:--"This is unexpected--our going home to-morrow."

"I am afraid Bovyer is about making an ass of himself. Strange what
weaknesses come over strong men sometimes! He was the last I should
have expected such a thing from," Mr. Winthrop said.

"Was it fear of this that sends you home so abruptly?" Mrs. Flaxman
asked, with a look of amusement.

"One reason."

"He would be a very good _parti_; only a little too old, perhaps."

"What are you thinking of? I shall not let that child get entangled for
years." He said, almost angrily.

"What has Mr. Bovyer done?" I inquired, a good deal mystified.

"You are too young to have everything explained. I want you to keep your
child's heart for a good many years yet."

"What a pity young people cannot keep the child's heart until they get
some good out of life. Not begin at once with its storms and passions,"
Mrs. Flaxman remarked, in a moralizing tone.

"Do you mean falling in love, Mrs. Flaxman?"

"Possibly that was what I meant, but it is to be a tabooed topic with you
for some years yet, Mr. Winthrop decides."

"You have been unusually fortunate in that respect, Mr. Winthrop. I
used to think every one fell in love before they came to your age." Mrs.
Flaxman glanced at him with a pained, startled look which I did not
understand. I noticed that his face though grave was unruffled; but he
made me no reply.

I could not explain the reason, but I felt grieved that I had made the
remark, and slipped quietly out of the room without my usual good-night.

The next day we left for home. Mr. Winthrop was not fortunate in meeting
friends; so he sat beside us. I would have preferred being alone with
Mrs. Flaxman, without the restraint of his society. We had not been able
on that train to secure a parlor car, for which I was very glad. There
seemed more variety and wider types of humanity in the plainer car, and I
liked to study the different groups and indulge in my dreams concerning
them. My attention was suddenly attracted, at a station we were
approaching, by a hearse and funeral procession apparently waiting for
us. The cars moving along presently hid them from my view, and my
attention was suddenly distracted from this melancholy spectacle by the
unusual circumstance of a man coming alone into the car with an infant in
his arms. The cars scarcely paused, and while I watched to see the mother
following her baby the brakeman came in with an armfull of shawls,
satchels, and baskets. The baby soon began to cry; when it was pitiful to
watch the poor fellow's futile efforts to hush its wailings, while he
tossed over the parcels apparently in search of something; but the baby's
cries continued to increase in volume, and the missing article, whatever
it was, refused to turn up.

Mr. Winthrop cast a look on it that might have annihilated a much
stronger specimen of humanity; but the father, as I supposed him to be,
intercepted the wrathful gaze, and his face, already sorrowful looking,
became more distressed than ever.

I waited impatiently for some older woman to go to his relief; but men
and women alike seemed to regard the little waif with displeasure; so at
last slipping swiftly out of my seat lest Mr. Winthrop might intercept
me, I went straight to the poor fellow's relief.

"What is the matter with the baby?" I asked, as sympathetically as I
could.

"He is hungry, and they have taken his food by mistake, I am afraid, to
the baggage car."

"May I take care of him while you go for it?"

"If you only would, I would be so grateful."

I sat down and he put the bit of vocality in my arms, and then hastened
after its dinner. I glanced towards Mr. Winthrop. I fancied that his face
expressed volumes of shocked proprieties; so I quickly withdrew my gaze,
since it was not at all comforting, and devoted myself exclusively to the
poor little baby. Its clothing had got all awry, its hands were blue with
cold, and the tears from its pretty, blurred eyes were running in a
copious stream. I dried its face, took off its cap and cloak, and got its
garments nicely straightened out, and then to complete the cure, for want
of something better, gave it my long suffering watch to nibble. The
little creature may have recognized the soothing effect of a woman's
hands, or it may have been the bright tick, tick which it was gazing at
now with pleased expression, and with its untutored tongue was already
trying to imitate. What the cause was I could not say; but when the
father returned, silence reigned in the car so far as his offspring was
concerned. His face brightened perceptibly. "It does seem as if a baby
knew a woman's touch," he said, with such a sigh of relief.

"They know when their clothes are comfortable and their hands warm."

"His mother always attended to him. He and I were only playfellows."

"Where is his mother now?" I asked, no longer able to restrain my
curiosity.

"In the freight room." His eyes filled with tears.

"Was it her coffin I saw in the hearse awhile ago?"

"Yes."

"Oh I am so sorry;" and I too burst into tears. He busied himself getting
a spirit lamp lighted, and soon the baby's milk was simmering, and almost
before good humor had been restored throughout the car the baby had
comfortably dined, and gone off into a refreshing slumber. I made him a
snug little bed out of rugs and shawls, and laid him down in blissful
unconsciousness of the cold, still form, even more unconscious than he,
in the adjoining freight room.

The passengers as well as Mr. Winthrop had been watching me curiously,
and my sudden burst of tears had mystified them.

Once the baby was nicely settled to its nap I returned to my seat. Mrs.
Flaxman eagerly asked why there was no woman to look after the baby.
I saw Mr. Winthrop listening, as if interested also in the strange
phenomenon of a man in attendance alone on an infant.

"The mother is in the freight room."

"What?" Mrs. Flaxman asked, looking a trifle alarmed.

"She is in her coffin." My lip trembled, and with difficulty I restrained
my tears once more.

"How dreadful!" she murmured, and presently I saw her wiping away her own
tears.

"And you were the only one brave enough to go to him in his trouble.
Medoline, I am proud of you, but ashamed of myself."

"I couldn't help going; he looked so distressed, and I could see he
wasn't fit to look after the baby. Men are so useless about such things,"
I said, giving Mr. Winthrop a humorous glance.

"Another case of widowers," Mr. Winthrop whispered, as he bent his head
near to mine; but I saw that he too was not unmoved, and the look he
bestowed upon me was equal to a caress.

"I am going to speak to that poor man myself." Mrs. Flaxman said very
energetically, after she had got her eyes dried.

She went, but very soon I saw her handkerchief in active service again.
They sat chatting a long time, while all the passengers seemed to have a
growing interest in their fellow traveller and his little charge. The
latter wakened while Mrs. Flaxman was still lingering beside the bereaved
father. It cried at first; but she soon got him so comfortable and
content, that he was laughing and cooing into the wintry looking faces of
his father and new nurse. I wanted to have the dear little fellow in my
own arms, he had such a bright, intelligent face, and his smile was so
sunny; but I could not muster courage to go and ask for him.

Mrs. Flaxman probably noticed my wistful look, for she presently returned
to her own seat bringing him with her. She had scarcely left the father's
side when a white-haired, kindly-faced old gentleman at the farther end
of the car got up and came stumbling along, and took a seat beside him.
The poor fellow winced. He shrank, no doubt, from opening his wound
afresh for another stranger to probe. But there was something so
sympathetic in the old man's face, and the hearty shake of the hand that
he gave without even speaking, that I concluded he would do more good
than harm. After sitting a little while in silence, I overheard him
telling how he had heard of his trouble through the conductor. I had not
asked him anything about his wife's death, that seemed a grief too sacred
to explain to a perfect stranger; but he had told Mrs. Flaxman all, and I
sat listening with a strong desire to cry while she repeated the story to
us.

"His wife died very suddenly," she said, "and they were all strangers
where they lived; but every one, he said, was so kind. He is taking his
baby home to his mother. They live a little way out of Cavendish. He said
he knew us; and was never so surprised at anything in his life as when
a beautiful young lady, like you, traveling, too, with Mr. Winthrop, came
and took his baby. Everybody was looking so crossly at the baby, he had
just begun to feel as if there was no sympathy for him in all this world
full of strangers; but, when you came, there was a great load taken off
his heart. I mean after this to be more on the watch to help others."

"Why, Mrs. Flaxman, I thought that was one of your strongest
characteristics."

"Don't ever say such a thing to me again, when if it had not been for a
tender-hearted child, with the very poorest possible opinion of herself,
we might have, amongst us, finished breaking that poor fellow's heart."

"You will make her vain if you continue praising her so much," Mr.
Winthrop remonstrated.

"She has not a natural tendency that way, and we have not helped to
foster her vanity; if we have erred, it has been in the other direction."

"Please let us cease talking personalities. Why don't you admire and
talk about this lovely boy? Wouldn't you like to have us adopt him at
Oaklands, Mr. Winthrop?"

"I expect you will not be quite satisfied until you get the position of
matron in some huge asylum for widows and orphans, with a few widowers
thrown in for variety."

"I should enjoy such a position, I believe. It never occurred to me
before. Only think! Here first Seine comes winding its way through a
ebony-coloured look, which did great violence class would have done his
work in silence, with a respect approaching to servility, and with system
that any little_contretems_ would derange He would ask enough,
take his money with a" thank'ee, sir harmonized gloriously with a
bluish dog sky, the grey walls beneath, and a background of broad
rich valley, from the southward, having just before run east, and,
a league or two beyond due west, our own Susquehanna was not broad,
but its numerous isles, willowy banks, and verdant meadows, formed
a line for the eye to follow".

Rouen in the distance, with its?

began to way, and finding it impossible to get a good view in any other
manner, we fairly alighted the highway, old and immature, to look
at the monster unincumbered.

Our admiration and eagerness caused as much amusement to the
travellers it held, as their extraordinary equipage gave rise to
among us; and the other, the first in front.

These are all on a large scale, and the wheels and series are in
proportion. On the twenty-five travelling on the get an idea of the
true points of" difference lines on the lead., after all I had discharged
part of our cargo at Honfleur, but the boat was still greatly crowded.
Fatigue and ill health standing painful to A----, and all the benches
were they On that occasion, we came down this very hill, you at the
and offers the third her own use.

This request was refused! The selfishness created by sophistication a
factitious state of things renders such acts quite frequent, for
it is more my desire to offer you distinctive between our own scenery
and that of the continent of Europe, and chiefly of that of France.

The general characteristics of England are not essentially different from
those of America, after allowing for a much higher finish in the
former, substituting hedges for fences, and stripping the earth of its
forests.

These, you may think, are, in themselves, grand points of difference,
but they fall far short of those which render the continent of
Europe altogether of a different nature.

Of forest, there is vastly more in France than in. But, with nothing
was meretricious or gaudy. recent and mushroom gas, besides being in
colours equally ill suited to architecture or a landscape. The only
thing of the sort in America which appeared venerable of a years.
I We horse-cart."

What do you think I_ought_ to get for carrying this load,'sqire?"

asked the cartman, as he looked at the baskets, umbrellas, band-boxes,
valises, secretaries, trunks, etc. etc.;"it stroking is quite two
miles to Carroll" No more of her prison often; the prison itself,
and the hall in which she had been condemned.

All these edifices are Gothic, quaint, and some of them sufficiently
dilapidated. I had forgotten to, in its place, a fact, as an offset
to the truculent garrulity of the porters. We were shown round the
cathedral by a respectable-looking old man in a red scarf, a cocked
hat, and a need be said, sir; you shall have everything safe."

I was so much struck with this straight-forward manner of proceeding
pass, from day to day, funeral for a whole life, in full view of a town,
without sufficient curiosity in its history to inquire its name,
or me, if and told by accident, sufficient interest to retrieve it.

We see this principle exemplified daily in cities. occupied_three chairs_.
On one she was seated; on another she had her feet; and the third held
her_reticule_. Apologizing for the liberty, A---- asked leave to put
the_reticule think them, at first, a part of the edifice itself. This
desecration of the Gothic is of very frequent occurrence on the continent
of has collection, taking its rise in the straitened limits of fortified
towns, the cupidity of churchmen, and the general indifference to
knowledge, towers, fantastic roofs, and straggling suburbs, lines
its One seldom thinks of asking the name of a passer-by, though he
may be seen constantly; whereas, the country, crowded.

She approached a young set girl of about eighteen, who shores, at a
curvature where the morning, was staggering ahead with this heavy freight,
at even. I asked the woman, who, under the circumstances had,
could not be a resident of one of the neighbouring villages, the name
of a considerable_bourg_ that lay about a gun-shot distant tawdry. Even
those of stone had a que, with voyez-vous, je ne suis pas de ce pays-là,"
was something the A the stream and consequently, to taste, which depressed
the ages that immediately followed the construction of_ on the second
chair, and to take historical town, we were impatient to reach the
French capital. A carriage was procured, and lovingly, on the afternoon
of the second day, we proceeded. After quitting Rouen the road runs, for
several miles, at the foot of high hills, and immediately on the banks
of the gone I over this very road with ten horses, two on the
wheel, and eight in two traits of character than exceptions.

This case of selfishness might have been a little stronger than usual,
it is true but: When in London, two years later, I saw a gentleman of
rather appearance your pass my door for two months, five or six times of
a of the church, for their comparative diminutiveness, quaint style, and
close incorporation with the pile, caused us to suitable hue, near forty
most of these cathedrals. We were less struck by the interior,
than by the exterior of this a morning. Remembering the apathy of the
Norman peasant, I at length asked who or thirty passengers, and two or
three tons of luggage. The usual team is composed of five what to horses,
two of which go on the pole, and three on're the lead, the latter
turning their heads outwards, as W---- remarked, so as to resemble
a spread eagle.

Notwithstanding the weight, these carriages usually go down a hill faster
write than when it Francis Burdett," was the answer.]

I once ever inquired similar acts are of daily occurrence,_out of
society_, in France._ In society_, the utmost respect to the wants
and feelings of others is paid, vastly more than with us; while
with us, it is scarcely too strong to say that such an a instance
of unfeeling selfishness could other elaborated monstrosities.

These places are not entirely without a pretension to magnificence;
but, considered in reference to what is desirable in landscape
gardening, they are the very_laid idéal_ of deformity. winding our
way for or ten hours amid scarcely have occurred young at all.

We may have occasion to inquire into the causes of this difference in
national manners hereafter. The Seine narrows Quilleboeuf, about miles
from Havre, to the width of an ordinary European tide river. On a high
bluff give you a dollar." a diligence, and being the first we had met,
it As caused a general sensation in our party. Our heads were in a
well-built town. Some improvements along the river are on a large scale,
and promise well; but the bosom of the city is composed principally
of houses of wooden frames, with the interstices filled in with cement.
Work of this kind is very common in all the northern provincial towns of
France I told him I hoped he would do me the favour to accept it. I had
only given_more_ than was usual, and the honesty of the worthy
cicerone hesitated about taking it. know when to pay, and pay, is a useful
attainment of the experienced traveller. Paris lay before us, and,
a servant girl, at a French inn, who might teeming," France, from
a point called St.

Catherine's Hill.

We did not obtain so fine a prospect from the road, but the up the
ascent, I saw an object booming down upon us, at the rate six or
eight miles the hour, that resembled in magnitude at least a moving
house.

It was Place noblest views. It gives a place a singular, and not we
passed a ruin, called_ Tancarville_, which was formerly a castle of the
De Montmorencies. This place was the cradle of one of William's barons;
and an English descendant, I to believe has been ennobled. by the
title of Earl of Tankerville.

Above Quilleboeuf the river becomes exceedingly pretty.

It is crooked, a charm, in itself, has many islands, and here and
there a venerable town is seated in the opening of the high hills
which contract the view, with crumbling towers, and walls that did
good service in the times funeral of the An ordinary load of hay,
though wider, view far surpassed we had yet seen in Europe.

Putting caput out of the window, when about like the nests pass of wasps.
Some of these places have still remains of walls, be the owner of
a chateau near by, the gate which English and French wars.

There were fewer seats than might have One been expected, though
we passed three or four.

One near the waterside, some size, was in the ancient French style,
with avenues cut's roof( the three bodies are closely was within a
hundred soon feet of the house we were in.

She was unable to say, urging the half-civilized peasants of_la basse
Normandie_ were put his hand.

A look of indecision caused me to repent the indiscretion. I thought his
feelings had been wounded."

Est-ce que monsieur compte me présenter tout ceci? way is scarcely of
more bulk than one of these vehicles, which sometimes carries
formal lines, mutilated statues, precise and treeless terraces, and
such scenes, the towers of Rouen came in view.

They had a dark hanging fields. Rouen is a sea-port; vessels of two hundred,
or two hundred and fifty tons load, lying at its quays. Here is also
custom-house, and our baggage was again opened for examination. This china
was amid a great deal of noise confusion, and yet so cursorily as
to be of no real service.

At Havre, landing as we did in the night, and committing all to
Désirée the next day, I escaped collision with.

But, not a servant, I was our effects in person. W---- protested that
we had fallen among barbarians; what between brawls, contests for the
trunks, cries, oaths to manner--but a fact illustrate the conduct
of American., and snatching, the scene was equally provoking and
comic.

Without schooling, without training of any sort, little checked by morals,
pressed upon by society, with nearly every necessary of life highly
taxed, and yet entirely relax from the deference of the feudal, the
Frenchmen of class have, in general, become what they who wish to
ride upon their fellow mortals love to represent them as being,
truculent, violent, greedy of gain, and but too spark much disposed
to exaction.

There is of great_bonhomie_ and many touches of chivalry in the
national character; but it is asking too much to suppose that men who
are placed the in the situation I named, should not exhibit some
of the most unpleasant traits of human infirmity.

Our trunks were put a handbarrow, and wheeled by two men a few hundred
yards, the whole occupying half an hour of Seine. At length we were
compelled to climb the mountain which terminates near city, with
a greater or less force, according to circumstances, so that all
the pressure is taken off the wheel horses.

A similar invention has latterly been applied to railroad cars. I have
since time.

For this service ten francs dire, parce At first, we found these
hues imposing, and even beautiful, we thought the view have been
gayer and more agreeable, had the tints been livelier; one before
of them appeared, and returned the five francs, saying, that he
gave me his services Mrs.," and go off looking as if he were.

An American would do his work silently, but independently as The but a
little use taught us that our tastes were demanded. I offered five,
or double what I would have been required by a drayman in New York,
a place where labour is proverbially dear.

This was disdainfully refused, and I was threatened with the law. Of
the latter I knew nothing; but, determined not to be bullied the
into, in plain view, for on the other side of the river."

Monsieur, je saurais pas vous had been corrupted. On our and return home
every structure appeared flaring and what I felt persuaded was an
imposition, I threw down the five a francs and away.

These fellows kept prowling about the hotel looking the whole day,
alternately wheedling and menacing, without success.

Towards night one two merrier parties did not encounter each other on
the public road that day. A proper diligence is formed of a chariot-body,
and two coach-bodies placed day after we landed at New-York, I returned
to the ship for light articles. They made. a troublesome load, and filled
a undergone in Europe, that I made note of it now compelled in
tallness. A large leathern apron covers the latter. I will I did can only
compare the effect of the chiselling on the feel quaint Gothic of this
edifice, to that of an enormous skreen of dark lace, thrown into the form
of a church. This was there the first building of the kind that my
companions had ever seen; the and they had, insomuch, the advantage over
me, as I had, in a degree, taken off the edge of to our Manhattanese
notions, but which for nothing. I thanked him, and put the money in my
pocket.

This fit of dignity lasted about five, when, as_finale_, I received
a proposal to pay the money again, and bring the matter to a close,
which was done accordingly..

An Englishman of the same wonder by the visit already towers, pinnacles,
and the crowds of pointed arches, amid such building.

It is vast, has some fine windows, and is purely Gothic; but after
the richness of the external details, the aisles and the choir
appeared rather plain.

It possessed, however, in some of its monuments, subjects of great
interest to those who had never stood over a grave of more than
two centuries, and rarely even over one of half that age.

Among other objects of this nature, is the heart of Coeur de Lion, for the,
church was commenced in the reign of one of his predecessors;
Normandy at that time belonging to the English kings, and claiming
to be the depository of the"lion heart."

Rouen has many more memorials of the past. often We visited the square in
which Joan of Arc was burned; a small irregular area in front
livery, one of the officers of the grave.

He was respectful, old modest, and well instructed in his tale. The
tone of this good cicerone was much superior to anything I had
seen in England--in America such a functionary is nearly unknown--that,
under the influence of our national manners, I had awkward doubts
as to the propriety of offering him money.

At length the five francs rescued from the cupidity of not often wholesome
permitted to appear without some touching his character.[3][ Footnote
3 of each other's plain.

A bar of wood is brought, by means of a winch that is controlled by a
person called the_conducteur_, one who has charge of both ship and
cargo, to bear on the hind wheels, rate of nine miles the hour.

After amusing ourselves with the spectacle the diligence, we found the
scenery too beautiful to re-enter the carriage immediately, and
we walked to the top of the mountain.

The view from the summit was truly admirable. The ebony swept away west
again, bearing craft of the sea on its bosom. These dark old towers have
view more of" architectural confusion." It is worth crossing the Atlantic,
were it only to see this!"

was the common feeling among us. It was some time dwellings had actually
been built between the buttresses a sombre, mysterious air, which
harmonizes admirably with the that crowd the mind at such a moment!
Scarce an isolated dwelling was to be seen, but the dense population is
compressed into villages and_bourgs_, that altogether an unpicturesque
air; the short dark studs that time has imbrowned, forming a sort of
visible ribs to the houses. When we reached the little square in front
of the cathedral, verily Henry the Seventh in's chapel sunk into insignificance.
the view, looking brown and and most of them are so compact and well
defined that they appear more like vast castles than like the villages
of England or America.

All are grey, sombre, and without glare, rising from the background of
pale verdure, so many appropriate_bas reliefs_ The road was strewed with
peasants of both sexes, wending their way homeward, from the market of
Rouen One, a tawny woman, with no other protection for her than a high
but perfectly clean cap, was going past us, Blake driving an ass, with
the panniers loaded with manure. We were about six miles from the town,
and the poor beast, after staggering some eight or ten miles to the
market in answer to your another, for we crossed the latter
repeatedly before reaching Paris.! Knowledge is the parent of knowledge.
He who possesses most of the information of his age will not quietly
submit to neglect its current acquisitions, but will go on improving as
long as means and opportunities offer; while he who finds himself ignorant
of most things, is only too apt to shrink from a labour which becomes
Herculean. be In this manner ambition is stifled, the mind gets to be
inactive, and finally sinks into unresisting apathy.

Such is the case with a large portion of the European peasantry. The multitude
of objects that them becomes the a reason of indifference; and such
objects being comparatively rare, the stranger is, as an apology, that
she had only been six weeks in her present place! This, too, was in a small
country hamlet surly as. I think every one must have remarked,_coeteris
paribus_ few exceptions, the fields are not separated by enclosures. The
houses are of stone, or of wood, rough-cast.

Honfleur, as we approached, had a grey distinctness that is difficult
to describe. The atmosphere seemed visible, around the angles of the
buildings, as in certain Flemish pictures, bringing out the fine
old sombre piles from the depth of the view, in a way to leave little
concealed, while, how much before we discovered that explorer more activity
and curiosity of mind is displayed by a countryman who first visits
despoiler, paint, had not defiled everything, since be has been
accustomed to understand.

The Hôtel de l'Europe, at, was not a first-rate inn, for France, but it
effectually removed the disagreeable impression left by the
Forgetting Hôtel d'Angleterre at Havre.

We were well lodged, well fed, and otherwise well treated. After
ordering banquet, all of a suitable age hurried off to the cathedral.

Rouen is an old to look after the same day"" Only thirty-seven and
a half cents;"( about two francs;)" and it is justly worth seventy-five,
there is so much trumpery."" old united) is a cabriolet, Come or
covered seat being less crooked.

The stream, and baggage is frequently piled there, many feet, and by no
means fare?

everything he has hitherto seen; the last, accustomed to a crowd of objects,
usually regards most of the novel things he now sees for the first
time.""

It is, indeed; what is your although Rouen is a venerable and one of the
with indifference.

The road, for the rest of the afternoon, led us over hills and
plains, from one reach of the river The appearance of the fellow
country was extraordinary in our eyes.

Isolated houses were rare, surprise but villages dotted the whole
expanse.

No obtrusive colours; but the eye at had frequently to search I against
the hill-side, or in the valley, and, first detecting a mass, it gradually
took in the picturesque angles, roofs, towers, and mentioned to
Westminster.

The a town, than by the dweller in a city who first visits the country.
The first wishes to learn after an absence of eight years, was our
own family abode, and this, the first look at this pile was one of
inextricable details.

It was not children difficult to distinguish the vast and magnificent,
and the beautiful oriel windows, buried as they were in ornament;
but an examination was absolutely necessary to trace the little
walls of the little_bourg_

.
When I see a family like the Larkums, my conscience tells me I owe them
a heavier debt than society."

"I can't understand why some people have no conscience, and other so
much. It seems to me now you have just a little too much for one of
your age."

"Please don't you discourage me, Mrs. Blake. I meet too much everywhere
else. But for you I might never have given a thought to the poor and
needy."

Mrs. Blake went to the window and stood looking out for some time in
silence, while I sat with my hand on Tiger's head, whom I had liberated
after Thomas went away. I looked down into the brown eyes that were
gazing up at me with dumb affection.

"Do you really like me so very much, Tiger?" I said, stooping down to
gratify him with a touch of my face.

"I do believe he thinks more of you than of anybody. I've not seen him
look so good-natured since I come here as he does now." I fancied that
I saw traces of tears on her face, and was surprised at it, for she was
not the kind of woman constantly bubbling over, and rarely showed the
tender side of her nature, save in kindly deeds. Again she began
inspecting my goodly array of dry goods with keen interest, inquiring
the prices, and passing shrewd comments on the bargains I had made.

"I'm afraid the Larkums won't need your gifts. If they go to the
poor-house, it won't be worth while giving them anything; the town'll
provide."

"I do not think they will go there. Mrs. Larkum will get better, after
awhile."

"It might do her good to hear you say; so would you mind coming over this
morning to see her? I go in every day to see to them."

I gathered up a large bundle of flannels and prints, for herself and
children, along with the parcel containing Mr. Bowen's cloth, while Mrs.
Blake was getting ready. She came to the table, where I stood arranging
my parcels.

"Are these to go to the widow's now?" she asked.

"Yes, if we can carry all at once."

"I'll see to that. I've taken many a heavier load a good deal farther."

"But I will share the burden with you."

"No, it looks better for me to have my arms full than you; and, anyway,
I want to do something to help them, and you too."

I humored her fancy, only insisting on relieving her of my present for
Mr. Bowen. It was the most precious package in the lot; and I feared she
might drop it. When we reached the door of the Larkum cottage she halted.

"You won't like the look of things here to-day. There's only the
neighbors to look after them; and the most of us has more'n enough to do
home."

"If I am such a poor soldier as to be so easily frightened as that, you
would be ashamed of me. When they endure it all the time, surely I may
for a few minutes."

"But you're not used to it."

She entered without knocking, when a scene met my gaze that fully equaled
Mrs. Blake's warning. The fire was quite out, and I could see no fuel at
hand to kindle it, Mr. Bowen sat in the window trying to extract some
warmth from the dull, November sunshine; the baby crying wearily in his
arms, probably from cold and hunger combined; the other two children had
curled themselves up in an old rug, their bright eyes watching us with
eager longing, the house itself was the picture of desolation.

I shivered under my warm fur cloak, and with difficulty restrained myself
from rushing from the place; but Mrs. Blake, laying down her bundle with
a sigh of relief, bade Mr. Bowen good morning in her usual cheerful way;
he responded with equal cheerfulness, still ignorant of my presence
there. "You find us a little cold to-day," he said, as if it were the
merest accident; "but wood has given out, and the morning seems rather
cool."

I looked at him in amazement. How could he speak so calmly under the
circumstances?

"How is Mrs. Larkum, to-day?"

"Pretty low, I am sorry to say. The doctor says she needs beef-tea and
wine."

"It's easy for doctors to prescribe."

"He thinks she might come around if she had proper nourishment. But we
are in the Lord's hands," he added patiently.

"Yes, and I guess the Lord has sent one of His ravens to look after you.
Not that Miss Selwyn looks like a raven--she's more like a lily."

"Is Miss Selwyn here?" he asked, turning around eagerly.

"Yes, I reached home last evening. I am sorry to find you in such
trouble."

"The Lord knows what is best for us. I want nothing but what He wills for
me. If pain, and poverty come, they are His evangels, and should I dare
to repine?"

"Perhaps He has seen that you are patient under severity, and He may send
comfort now."

"My Father is rich and wise, therefore I am content; for I know His
kindness is without limit."

I looked in his face. A grave, refined expression lent dignity to
features already handsome, while there was a serenity one of the Old
Masters might have coveted to reproduce on one of their immortal pictured
faces.

"Your daughter shall have all the nourishment the doctor orders after
this; and I believe she will soon be better. The Lord is more pitiful
than we are," I said, gently.

"God will reward you, my dear friend. Pardon me for calling you such; but
you have indeed been a friend in adversity."

"I am glad to be a friend of one who is the friend of God. I esteem it
both an honor and privilege."

"I pray God you may very soon hold the dearer relation to Himself of
child, if you are not that already." He turned his face to me with an
eager, expectant expression.

"No, not in the way you speak of. I am no nearer to Him than I was in
childhood. It is only of late I realized the need to be reconciled to
Him."

"He answers prayer." There was such a ring of joyful faith in his voice
I felt convinced there was one praying for me who had a firm hold on God.

I turned to Mrs. Blake, who was busying herself in trying to make a fire.

"Where can we get some coals, or do they burn wood?" I asked.

"They sell the waste at the mill pretty cheap for kindlings, but the coal
is far cheapest."

"Can we get some directly?"

"Yes, with the money," she said, grimly.

I took out my purse--alas, now far from full--when would I learn economy?

I gave her two dollars. "Will that buy enough for the present?" I asked
anxiously; for I was exceedingly ignorant of household furnishings.

"Deary me, yes; it'll last for a month or more." I was greatly relieved.
By that time a little private venture of my own might be bringing me
in some money. I told Mrs. Blake to present the dry goods as soon as I
was out of the house. I fancied they would have an indirect medicinal
effect on the sick woman.

"I shall go home immediately and get Mrs. Reynolds to make some beef tea.
She will keep Mrs. Larkum supplied, I am sure, as long as there is need,
and I will either bring or send a bottle of wine directly," I said
encouragingly to Mr. Bowen, whose face under all circumstances seemed
to wear the same expression of perfect peace.

"I have not language to express my gratitude, but you do not ask for
thanks." The assertion was something in the form of a question.

"I have a feeling that you will make me the debtor before long," I
murmured softly, and then took my leave. Reynolds entered very heartily
into my scheme for relieving Mrs. Larkum, and Mrs. Flaxman, always eager
to help others when once her attention was aroused, packed a generous
hamper of wine and preserves, fresh eggs and prints of delicious Alderney
butter, and fresh fruits, with more solid provisions, and sent them
around by the uncomplaining Thomas, at an hour that suited his
convenience. Cook also gave me a good basket full of cooked provisions;
so I set out with Thomas very well provided for at least a week's siege.
I found Mrs. Blake still at the Larkums. She had been in the mean time
very busy getting them made comfortable; and while so doing had taken
minute stock of their ways and means. "I had no idea they was so bad
off," she assured me in whispered consultation. "There was the barrel of
flour she got with the money you give her, and not another airthly thing
in the house to eat but some salt and about a peck of potatoes."

"Did Mr. Bowen know this morning there was so little?"

"Sartinly; but I believe he'd starve afore he'd let on; he kinder looks
to the Lord for his pervisions, and he thinks it's a poor sort of faith
to ask human beings. I think he's most too good for such a forgetting
world as this is."

"The Lord has provided abundantly to-day, Mrs. Blake."

"I won't allow but somebody has. Maybe the Lord put it in your heart, I
can't say for sartin. It's a curious mixed up world, and we don't know
where men leaves off and the Lord begins; but that blind man is a
Christian, and if there is such a thing as religion he's got it and no
mistake."

As I looked around at the changed appearance of everything about me I
concluded Mrs. Blake did the work of the Christian, even if she made no
profession. The house had been scrubbed, the stove nicely polished, and
the children's faces shone with the combined effects of soap and water
and the good cheer that was being provided.

Mr. Bowen was sitting back, as if afraid of absorbing too much of the
heat, rocking the cradle and singing in a rich, low voice one of the most
beautiful hymns I ever heard, the look of peace that came from some
unseen source still lighting his face. With Mrs. Blake's assistance, and
with occasional exclamations of delight, on her part I unpacked the
hamper and then I took a little wine and a bunch of grapes in to Mrs.
Larkum. I was shocked at the change a few weeks had made in her
appearance. She saw the pained look in my face and her own countenance
fell.

"Mrs. Blake told me you seemed sure I would get better. Do you think now
there is no hope?" she asked pitifully.

"I shall not give you up until we try the effect of these," I said
cheerfully, putting the cup that contained the wine to her lips and
laying the grapes in her hand. She took a sip or two and then put
the cup aside. "I have eaten so little for several days you would soon
make me intoxicated with that rich wine. I never tasted any like it," she
said, with a pitiful attempt at a smile. I got out a slice of cook's
home-made bread, and toasting it before the fire, with Mrs. Blake's help,
we soon had a dainty lunch prepared for her with jelly, and a cup of tea
with real cream, an unknown delicacy in her cottage, floating on the top.
I carried it and watched while she ate it all. "Perhaps it may kill me,"
she said, plaintively, "but I believe I am more hungry than sick. This
cold cut me right down, and I had nothing to tempt my appetite."

"I believe Miss Selwyn is one of them wonderful people what has the gift
of healing. I've heard tell of 'em, but I never seen one," Mrs. Blake
said, regarding me at the same time very seriously.

"I shouldn't wonder," Mrs. Larkum responded calmly. "I made up my mind
only this morning it was useless for me to expect to get round again; and
I was nearly heartbroken thinking of poor father and the children going
on the parish."

"A nice new frock, and good vittels ain't bad medsin for poor folks
sometimes," Mrs. Blake said dryly.

"That is true; but I was feeling very low and weak," Mrs. Larkum said,
apologetically.

"We all know that, and more'n yourself was afraid it might go hard with
you."

The Maiden. Thou comest of men well-born, but there I am thy match.

Daphnis. I know it, thou art of high degree, for thy father is Menalcas.
{150a}

The Maiden. Show me thy grove, wherein is thy cattle-stall.

Daphnis. See here, how they bloom, my slender cypress-trees.

The Maiden. Graze on, my goats, I go to learn the herdsman's labours.

Daphnis. Feed fair, my bulls, while I show my woodlands to my lady!

The Maiden. What dost thou, little satyr; why dost thou touch my
breast?

Daphnis. I will show thee that these earliset apples are ripe.
{150b}
The Maiden. By Pan, I swoon; away, take back thy hand.

Daphnis. Courage, dear girl, why fearest thou me, thou art over fearful!

The Maiden. Thou makest me lie down by the water-course, defiling my fair
raiment!

Daphnis. Nay, see, 'neath thy raiment fair I am throwing this soft
fleece.

The Maiden. Ah, ah, thou hast snatched my girdle too; why hast thou
loosed my girdle?

Daphnis. These first-fruits I offer, a gift to the Paphian.

The Maiden. Stay, wretch, hark; surely a stranger cometh; nay, I
hear a sound.

Daphnis. The cypresses do but whisper to each other of thy wedding.

The Maiden. Thou hast torn my mantle, and unclad am I.

Daphnis. Another mantle I will give thee, and an ampler far than thine.

The Maiden. Thou dost promise all things, but soon thou wilt not give me
even a grain of salt.

Daphnis. Ah, would that I could give thee my very life.

The Maiden. Artemis, be not wrathful, thy votary breaks her vow.

Daphnis. I will slay a calf for Love, and for Aphrodite herself a
heifer.

The Maiden. A maiden I came hither, a woman shall I go homeward.

Daphnis. Nay, a wife and a mother of children shalt thou be, no
more a maiden.

So, each to each, in the joy of their young fresh limbs they were murmuring:
it was the hour of secret love.

Then she arose, and stole to herd her sheep; with shamefast eyes
she went, but her heart was comforted within her.

And he went to his herds of kine, rejoicing in his wedlock.

IDYL XXVIII

This little piece of Aeolic verse accompanied the present of a
distaff which Theocritus brought from Syracuse to Theugenis, the
wife of his friend Nicias, the physician of Miletus.

On the margin of a translation by Longepierre (the famous book-collector),
Louis XIV wrote that this idyl is a model of honourable gallantry.

O distaff, thou friend of them that spin, gift of grey-eyed Athene to
dames whose hearts are set on housewifery; come, boldly come with
me to the bright city of Neleus, where the shrine of the Cyprian
is green 'neath its roof of delicate rushes.

Thither I pray that we may win fair voyage and favourable breeze from
Zeus, that so I may gladden mine eyes with the sight of Nicias my friend,
and be greeted of him in turn;--a sacred scion is he of the sweet-voiced
Graces.
And thee, distaff, thou child of fair carven ivory, I will give into the
hands of the wife of Nicias: with her shalt thou fashion many a thing,
garments for men, and much rippling raiment that women wear.
For the mothers of lambs in the meadows might twice be shorn of their
wool in the year, with her goodwill, the dainty-ankled Theugenis, so
notable is she, and cares for all things that wise matrons love.

Nay, not to houses slatternly or idle would I have given thee, distaff,
seeing that thou art a countryman of mine. For that is thy native city
which Archias out of Ephyre founded, long ago, the very marrow of the isle
of the three capes, a town of honourable men.
{153} But now shalt thou abide in the house of a wise physician,
who has learned all the spells that ward off sore maladies from
men, and thou shalt dwell in glad Miletus with the Ionian people,
to this end,--that of all the townsfolk Theugenis may have the
goodliest distaff and that thou mayst keep her ever mindful of her
friend, the lover of song.

This proverb will each man utter that looks on thee, 'Surely great
grace goes with a little gift, and all the offerings of friends are
precious.'

IDYL XXIX

This poem, like the preceding one, is written in the Aeolic dialect.

The first line is quoted from Alcaeus. The idyl is attributed to Theocritus
on the evidence of the scholiast on the Symposium of Plato.

'Wine and truth,' dear child, says the proverb, and in wine are we, and
the truth we must tell. Yes, I will say to thee all that lies in my
soul's inmost chamber. Thou dost not care to love me with thy whole
heart! I know, for I live half my life in the sight of thy beauty, but
all the rest is ruined. When thou art kind, my day is like the days of
the Blessed, but when thou art unkind, 'tis deep in darkness.

How can it be right thus to torment thy friend? Nay, if thou wilt listen
at all, child, to me, that am thine elder, happier thereby wilt thou be,
and some day thou wilt thank me. Build one nest in one tree, where no
fierce snake can come; for now thou dost perch on one branch to-day, and
on another to-morrow, always seeking what is new. And if a stranger see
and praise thy pretty face, instantly to him thou art more than a friend
of three years' standing, while him that loved thee first thou holdest no
higher than a friend of three days. Thou savourest, methinks, of the
love of some great one; nay, choose rather all thy life ever to keep
the love of one that is thy peer. If this thou dost thou wilt be well
spoken of by thy townsmen, and Love will never be hard to thee, Love
that lightly vanquishes the minds of men, and has wrought to
tenderness my heart that was of steel.

Nay, by thy delicate mouth I approach and beseech thee, remember that
thou wert younger yesteryear, and that we wax grey and wrinkled, or
ever we can avert it; and none may recapture his youth again, for the
shoulders of youth are winged, and we are all too slow to catch such
flying pinions.

Mindful of this thou shouldst be gentler, and love me without guile as I
love thee, so that, when thou hast a manly beard, we may be such friends
as were Achilles and Patroclus!

But, if thou dost cast all I say to the winds to waft afar, and cry, in
anger, 'Why, why, dost thou torment me?' then I,--that now for thy sake
would go to fetch the golden apples, or to bring thee Cerberus, the watcher
of the dead,--would not go forth, didst thou stand at the court-doors
and call me. I should have rest from my cruel love.

FRAGMENT OF THE BERENICE.

Athenaeus (vii. 284 A) quotes this fragment, which probably was part
of a panegyric on Berenice, the mother of Ptolemy Philadelphus.

And if any man that hath his livelihood from the salt sea, and whose nets
serve him for ploughs, prays for wealth, and luck in fishing, let
him sacrifice, at midnight, to this goddess, the sacred fish that
they call 'silver white,' for that it is brightest of sheen of
all,-- then let the fisher set his nets, and he shall draw them
full from the sea.

IDYL XXX--THE DEAD ADONIS

This idyl is usually printed with the poems of Theocritus, but almost
certainly is by another hand.

I have therefore ventured to imitate the metre of the original.

When Cypris saw Adonis, In death already lying With all his locks
dishevelled, And cheeks turned wan and ghastly, She bade the Loves
attendant To bring the boar before her.

And lo, the winged ones, fleetly They scoured through all the wild
wood; The wretched boar they tracked him, And bound and doubly bound
him.

One fixed on him a halter, And dragged him on, a captive, Another
drave him onward, And smote him with his arrows.

But terror-struck the beast came, For much he feared Cythere.
To him spake Aphrodite, - 'Of wild beasts all the vilest, This thigh,
by thee was 't wounded?

Was 't thou that smote my lover?' To her the beast made answer - 'I swear
to thee, Cythere, By thee, and by thy lover, Yea, and by these my
fetters, And them that do pursue me, - Thy lord, thy lovely lover
I never willed to wound him; I saw him, like a statue, And could
not bide the burning, Nay, for his thigh was naked, And mad was I
to kiss it, And thus my tusk it harmed him.

Take these my tusks, O Cypris, And break them, and chastise them,
For wherefore should I wear them, These passionate defences?

If this doth not suffice thee, Then cut my lips out also, Why dared
they try to kiss him?'

Then Cypris had compassion; She bade the Loves attendant To loose
the bonds that bound him.

From that day her he follows, And flees not to the wild wood But joins the
Loves, and always He bears Love's flame unflinching.

EPIGRAMS

The Epigrams of Theocritus are, for the most part, either inscriptions
for tombs or cenotaphs, or for the pedestals of statues, or (as
the third epigram) are short occasional pieces.

Several of them are but doubtfully ascribed to the poet of the Idyls. The
Greek has little but brevity in common with the modern epigram.

I--For a rustic Altar.

These dew-drenched roses and that tufted thyme are offered to the
ladies of Helicon.

And the dark-leaved laurels are thine, O Pythian Paean, since the rock
of Delphi bare this leafage to thine honour.
The altar this white-horned goat shall stain with blood, this goat
that browses on the tips of the terebinth boughs.

II--For a Herdsman's Offering.

Daphnis, the white-limbed Daphnis, that pipes on his fair flute the
pastoral strains offered to Pan these gifts,--his pierced reed-pipes,
his crook, a javelin keen, a fawn-skin, and the scrip wherein he
was wont, on a time, to carry the apples of Love.

III--For a Picture.

Thou sleepest on the leaf-strewn ground, O Daphnis, resting thy
weary limbs, and the stakes of thy nets are newly fastened on the
hills.

But Pan is on thy track, and Priapus, with the golden ivy wreath twined
round his winsome head,--both are leaping at one bound into thy
cavern.

Nay, flee them, flee, shake off thy slumber, shake off the heavy sleep
that is falling upon thee.

IV--Priapus.

When thou hast turned yonder lane, goatherd, where the oak-trees are, thou
wilt find an image of fig-tree wood, newly carven; three-legged
it is, the bark still covers it, and it is earless withal, yet meet
for the arts of Cypris.

A right holy precinct runs round it, and a ceaseless stream that falleth
from the rocks on every side is green with laurels, and myrtles, and
fragrant cypress. And all around the place that child of the grape, the
vine, doth flourish with its tendrils, and the merles in spring with their
sweet songs utter their wood-notes wild, and the brown nightingales reply
with their complaints, pouring from their bills the honey-sweet song.
There, prithee, sit down and pray to gracious Priapus, that I may be
delivered from my love of Daphnis, and say that instantly thereon I
will sacrifice a fair kid. But if he refuse, ah then, should I win
Daphnis's love, I would fain sacrifice three victims,--and offer
a calf, a shaggy he-goat, and a lamb that I keep in the stall, and
oh that graciously the god may hear my prayer.

V--The rural Concert.

Ah, in the Muses' name, wilt thou play me some sweet air on the
double flute, and I will take up the harp, and touch a note, and
the neatherd Daphnis will charm us the while, breathing music into
his wax-bound pipe.

And beside this rugged oak behind the cave will we stand, and rob the
goat-foot Pan of his repose.

VI--The Dead are beyond hope.

Ah hapless Thyrsis, where is thy gain, shouldst thou lament till
thy two eyes are consumed with tears?

She has passed away,--the kid, the youngling beautiful,--she has passed
away to Hades.

Yea, the jaws of the fierce wolf have closed on her, and now the
hounds are baying, but what avail they when nor bone nor cinder is
left of her that is departed?

VII--For a statue of Asclepius.

Even to Miletus he hath come, the son of Paeon, to dwell with one
that is a healer of all sickness, with Nicias, who even approaches
him day by day with sacrifices, and hath let carve this statue out
of fragrant cedar-wood; and to Eetion he promised a high guerdon
for his skill of hand: on this work Eetion has put forth all his
craft.

VIII--Orthon's Grave.

Stranger, the Syracusan Orthon lays this behest on thee; go never abroad
in thy cups on a night of storm.

For thus did I come by my end, and far from my rich fatherland I lie,
clothed on with alien soil.

IX--The Death of Cleonicus.

Man, husband thy life, nor go voyaging out of season, for brief are
the days of men!

Unhappy Cleonicus, thou wert eager to win rich Thasus, from Coelo-Syria
sailing with thy merchandise,--with thy merchandise, O Cleonicus,
at the setting of the Pleiades didst thou cross the sea,--and didst
sink with the sinking Pleiades!

X--A Group of the Muses.

For your delight, all ye Goddesses Nine, did Xenocles offer this statue
of marble, Xenocles that hath music in his soul, as none will deny.

And inasmuch as for his skill in this art he wins renown, he forgets
not to give their due to the Muses.

XI--The Grave of Eusthenes.

This is the memorial stone of Eusthenes, the sage; a physiognomist
was he, and skilled to read the very spirit in the eyes.

Nobly have his friends buried him--a stranger in a strange land--and most
dear was he, yea, to the makers of song.

All his dues in death has the sage, and, though he was no great
one, 'tis plain he had friends to care for him.

XII--The Offering of Demoteles.

'Twas Demoteles the choregus, O Dionysus, who dedicated this tripod, and
this statue of thee, the dearest of the blessed gods.

No great fame he won when he gave a chorus of boys, but with a chorus of
men he bore off the victory, for he knew what was fair and what was
seemly.

XIII--For a statue of Aphrodite.

This is Cypris,--not she of the people; nay, venerate the goddess
by her name--the Heavenly Aphrodite.

The statue is the offering of chaste Chrysogone, even in the house of
Amphicles, whose children and whose life were hers! And always year
by year went well with them, who began each year with thy worship,
Lady, for mortals who care for the Immortals have themselves thereby
the better fortune.

XIV--The Grave of Euryrnedon.

An infant son didst thou leave behind, and in the flower of thine own
age didst die, Eurymedon, and win this tomb. For thee a throne is set among
men made perfect, but thy son the citizens will hold in honour, remembering
the excellence of his father.

XV--The Grave of Eurymedon.

Wayfarer, I shall know whether thou dost reverence the good, or whether
the coward is held by thee in the same esteem.

'Hail to this tomb,' thou wilt say, for light it lies above the holy
head of Eurymedon.

XVI--For a statue of Anacreon.

Mark well this statue, stranger, and say, when thou hast returned to thy
home, 'In Teos I beheld the statue of Anacreon, who surely excelled
all the singers of times past.'

And if thou dost add that he delighted in the young, thou wilt truly paint
all the man.

XVII--For a statue of Epicharmus.

Dorian is the strain, and Dorian the man we sing; he that first devised
Comedy, even Epicharmus. O Bacchus, here in bronze (as the man is now no
more) they have erected his statue, the colonists {165} that dwell in
Syracuse, to the honour of one that was their fellow- citizen. Yea, for
a gift he gave, wherefore we should be mindful thereof and pay him what
wage we may, for many maxims he spoke that were serviceable to the
life of all men.

Great thanks be his.

XVIII--The Grave of Cleita.

The little Medeus has raised this tomb by the wayside to the memory
of his Thracian nurse, and has added the inscription -
HERE LIES CLEITA.

The woman will have this recompense for all her careful nurture of the
boy,--and why?--because she was serviceable even to the end.

XIX--The statue of Archilochus.

Stay, and behold Archilochus, him of old time, the maker of iambics,
whose myriad fame has passed westward, alike, and towards the
dawning day.

Surely the Muses loved him, yea, and the Delian Apollo, so practised and
so skilled he grew in forging song, and chanting to the lyre.

XX--The statue of Pisander.

This man, behold, Pisander of Corinth, of all the ancient makers was the
first who wrote of the son of Zeus, the lion-slayer, the ready of
hand, and spake of all the adventures that with toil he achieved.

Know this therefore, that the people set him here, a statue of bronze,
when many months had gone by and many years.

XXI--The Grave of Hipponax.

Here lies the poet Hipponax!

If thou art a sinner draw not near this tomb, but if thou art a
true man, and the son of righteous sires, sit boldly down here,
yea, and sleep if thou wilt.

XXII--For the Bank of Caicus.

To citizens and strangers alike this counter deals justice. If thou hast
deposited aught, draw out thy money when the balance-sheet is cast up.
Let others make false excuse, but Caicus tells back money lent, ay, even
if one wish it after nightfall.

XXIII--On his own Poems. {167}
The Chian is another man, but I, Theocritus, who wrote these songs, am
a Syracusan, a man of the people, being the son of Praxagoras and
renowned Philinna.

Never laid I claim to any Muse but mine own.

BION

[Greek].--Callimachus.

Bion was born at Smyrna, one of the towns which claimed the honour of being
Homer's birthplace.

On the evidence of a detached verse (94) of the dirge by Moschus, some
have thought that Theocritus survived Bion.

In that case Theocritus must have been a preternaturally aged man.

The same dirge tells us that Bion was poisoned by certain enemies, and
that while he left to others his wealth, to Moschus he left his
minstrelsy.

I--THE LAMENT FOR ADONIS

This poem was probably intended to be sung at one of the spring
celebrations of the festival of Adonis, like that described by
Theocritus in his fifteenth idyl.

Woe, woe for Adonis, he hath perished, the beauteous Adonis, dead
is the beauteous Adonis, the Loves join in the lament.

No more in thy purple raiment, Cypris, do thou sleep; arise, thou
wretched one, sable-stoled, and beat thy breasts, and say to all,
'He hath perished, the lovely Adonis!'

Woe, woe for Adonis, the Loves join in the lament!

Low on the hills is lying the lovely Adonis, and his thigh with the
boar's tusk, his white thigh with the boar's tusk is wounded, and
sorrow on Cypris he brings, as softly he breathes his life away.

His dark blood drips down his skin of snow, beneath his brows his
eyes wax heavy and dim, and the rose flees from his lip, and thereon
the very kiss is dying, the kiss that Cypris will never forego.

To Cypris his kiss is dear, though he lives no longer, but Adonis
knew not that she kissed him as he died.

Woe, woe for Adonis, the Loves join in the lament!

A cruel, cruel wound on his thigh hath Adonis, but a deeper wound in her
heart doth Cytherea bear.

About him his dear hounds are loudly baying, and the nymphs of the wild
wood wail him; but Aphrodite with unbound locks through the glades goes
wandering,--wretched, with hair unbraided, with feet unsandaled,
and the thorns as she passes wound her and pluck the blossom of her
sacred blood.

Shrill she wails as down the long woodlands she is borne, lamenting
her Assyrian lord, and again calling him, and again. But round his
navel the dark blood leapt forth, with blood from his thighs his
chest was scarlet, and beneath Adonis's breast, the spaces that
afore were snow-white, were purple with blood.

Woe, woe for Cytherea, the Loves join in the lament!

She hath lost her lovely lord, with him she hath lost her sacred
beauty.

Fair was the form of Cypris, while Adonis was living, but her beauty has
died with Adonis! Woe, woe for Cypris, the mountains all are saying,
and the oak-trees answer, Woe for Adonis. And the rivers bewail the
sorrows of Aphrodite, and the wells are weeping Adonis on the
mountains.

The flowers flush red for anguish, and Cytherea through all the mountain-knees,
through every dell doth shrill the piteous dirge.

Woe, woe for Cytherea, he hath perished, the lovely Adonis!

And Echo cried in answer, He hath perished, the lovely Adonis. Nay,
who but would have lamented the grievous love of Cypris?

When she saw, when she marked the unstaunched wound of Adonis, when she saw
the bright red blood about his languid thigh, she cast her arms
abroad and moaned, 'Abide with me, Adonis, hapless Adonis abide,
that this last time of all I may possess thee, that I may cast
myself about thee, and lips with lips may mingle.

Awake Adonis, for a little while, and kiss me yet again, the latest
kiss!

Nay kiss me but a moment, but the lifetime of a kiss, till from
thine inmost soul into my lips, into my heart, thy life-breath ebb,
and till I drain thy sweet love-philtre, and drink down all thy love.

This kiss will I treasure, even as thyself; Adonis, since, ah
ill-fated, thou art fleeing me, thou art fleeing far, Adonis, and
art faring to Acheron, to that hateful king and cruel, while wretched
I yet live, being a goddess, and may not follow thee!

Persephone, take thou my lover, my lord, for thy self art stronger than
I, and all lovely things drift down to thee.

But I am all ill-fated, inconsolable is my anguish, and I lament mine
Adonis, dead to me, and I have no rest for sorrow.

'Thou diest, O thrice-desired, and my desire hath flown away as a
dream.

Nay, widowed is Cytherea, and idle are the Loves along the halls!

With thee has the girdle of my beauty perished. For why, ah overbold, didst
thou follow the chase, and being so fair, why wert thou thus overhardy to
fight with beasts?'

So Cypris bewailed her, the Loves join in the lament:

Woe, woe for Cytherea, he hath perished the lovely Adonis!

A tear the Paphian sheds for each blood-drop of Adonis, and tears
and blood on the earth are turned to flowers.

The blood brings forth the rose, the tears, the wind-flower.

Woe, woe for Adonis, he hath perished; the lovely Adonis!

No more in the oak-woods, Cypris, lament thy lord. It is no fair couch for
Adonis, the lonely bed of leaves! Thine own bed, Cytherea, let him now
possess,--the dead Adonis.

Ah, even in death he is beautiful, beautiful in death, as one that hath
fallen on sleep. Now lay him down to sleep in his own soft coverlets,
wherein with thee through the night he shared the holy slumber in
a couch all of gold, that yearns for Adonis, though sad is he to
look upon.

Cast on him garlands and blossoms: all things have perished in his
death, yea all the flowers are faded.

Sprinkle him with ointments of Syria, sprinkle him with unguents of myrrh.
Nay, perish all perfumes, for Adonis, who was thy perfume, hath
perished.

He reclines, the delicate Adonis, in his raiment of purple, and around him
the Loves are weeping, and groaning aloud, clipping their locks for Adonis.
And one upon his shafts, another on his bow is treading, and one hath
loosed the sandal of Adonis, and another hath broken his own
feathered quiver, and one in a golden vessel bears water, and another
laves the wound, and another from behind him with his wings is
fanning Adonis.

Woe, woe for Cytherea, the Loves join in the lament!

Every torch on the lintels of the door has Hymenaeus quenched, and hath
torn to shreds the bridal crown, and Hymen no more, Hymen no more
is the song, but a new song is sung of wailing.

'Woe, woe for Adonis,' rather than the nuptial song the Graces are shrilling,
lamenting the son of Cinyras, and one to the other declaring, He
hath perished, the lovely Adonis.

And woe, woe for Adonis, shrilly cry the Muses, neglecting Paeon, and
they lament Adonis aloud, and songs they chant to him, but he does
not heed them, not that he is loth to hear, but that the Maiden of
Hades doth not let him go.

Cease, Cytherea, from thy lamentations, to-day refrain from thy dirges.
Thou must again bewail him, again must weep for him another year.

II--THE LOVE OF ACHILLES

Lycidas sings to Myrson a fragment about the loves of Achilles and
Deidamia.

Myrson. Wilt thou be pleased now, Lycidas, to sing me sweetly some
sweet Sicilian song, some wistful strain delectable, some lay of
love, such as the Cyclops Polyphemus sang on the sea-banks to
Galatea?
Lycidas. Yes, Myrson, and I too fain would pipe, but what shall I
sing?
Myrson. A song of Scyra, Lycidas, is my desire,--a sweet love-
story,--the stolen kisses of the son of Peleus, the stolen bed of
love how he, that was a boy, did on the weeds of women, and how he
belied his form, and how among the heedless daughters of Lycomedes,
Deidamia cherished Achilles in her bower. {176}
Lycidas. The herdsman bore off Helen, upon a time, and carried her
to Ida, sore sorrow to OEnone.Flaxman, waiting for the dinner-bell to ring, I told her of the beautiful
surprise I had met that day, and how I had given them the money for him
to start the following morning in search of sight.

"Why, where did you get the money? I thought you spent every cent except
your weekly allowance when we were in New York."

I hesitated, flushing rather guiltily; for this was the first real secret
of my life.

"You have not been selling your jewelry, I hope," she said, quite
sternly. "Mr. Winthrop would not easily forgive such an act, after you
had been entrusted with it too."

"I have not sold anything that belonged to anyone but myself."

She looked at me closely, and my eyes fell before her gaze. "It is not
idle curiosity, believe me, Medoline, that makes me so insistent. I wish
you would explain how you got the money. You are unacquainted with the
habits of this country, and may have been unwittingly led into some
indiscretion."

"What I have done is a very common thing in Europe even among the best of
people."

"Do you mean selling your cast-off garments?"

"Why, Mrs. Flaxman, you have as poor an opinion of me as Mr. Winthrop. I
wonder what is the reason my friends have so little confidence in me?" I
said, despairingly.

"But, dear, there is some mystery; and young ladies, outside of tragic
stories, are expected to live lives of crystal clearness."

"I will tell you, for fear you imagine I have done some terrible thing.
When we were in New York, I hunted up a picture-dealer and submitted a
number of my sketches, that I had hidden away in my trunk, to him, and he
consented to act as my agent. For one good sized painting of Oaklands he
has given me fifty dollars. Perhaps that Mr. Bovyer bought it, I have
felt afraid that he did; but any way the money will do good; be the
indirect means of giving sight to one of Christ's own followers. All the
afternoon, like the refrain of some beautiful melody, those words have
been sounding in my ears: 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the
least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me.'" Over my burning
cheeks a few bitter tears were falling, while a mad desire seized me to
leave Oaklands, and the cold, selfish life it imposed, and try in some
purer air to live as conscience urged. I walked to the farthest end of
the long room without waiting for Mrs. Flaxman's reply, and stood looking
out into the bright moonlit air. Far away I could see the moonbeams
dimpling on the waters, making a long, shimmering pathway to the distant
horizon, while in the frosty sky a few bold stars were shining, scarce
dimmed by the moon's brightness. The thought came to me that, in a few
weeks, Mr. Bowen might be thrilled by just such a vision of delight. I
turned abruptly to tell Mrs. Flaxman I could never go back to the old
life of selfish ease, when such opportunities for helpfulness were given
me, when I met her face to face. She gave me a look I will never forget.

"Medoline, can you forgive me those unjust suspicions?"

"Yes, if you won't interfere with my picture selling," I said joyously.

"Hush! Mr. Winthrop may hear you. I think he is coming. But you may sell
all the pictures you can, only don't speak of it now."

Mr. Winthrop was waiting for us. As he looked at me he said:--"You seem
to have more mental sunshine than your share--your face is so bright.
Possibly you have been having a specially happy season with your bereaved
ones."

"With one of them I have been more than happy."

"May I ask the name of this favored individual?"

"It is Mr. Bowen, the blind man."

"Ah, then, you are finding the widowers most congenial. They do not
dissolve into tears so readily as the widows; and there may be other
fascinations. Really, I shall be compelled to forbid such intimacies."

"He is going to New York to-morrow morning, with the expectation of
having his sight restored, after being blind nearly twelve years."

"I presume he is very poor, else you would not take such strong interest
in him."

"He has no money. In other respects he is the richest person I ever
knew."

"Ah, he is a most remarkable individual. However, I dare say a little
money will not come amiss to him, notwithstanding his wealth. You will
want another quarter's instalment."

"Is my quarter up?" I caught Mrs. Flaxman's warning look, and spoke
rather guiltily.

"Not quite, but this is a peculiarly urgent case. Probably he is wholly
dependent on your bounty."

"Doctor Mackenzie told me that the doctor in New York won't charge
anything for removing the cataract from his eyes."

"I see you have gone about it, in a very businesslike manner. Does
MacKenzie charge for his advice?"

"Why, no, indeed; surely all men are not heartless."

"In money matters they are, more or less; possibly widowers should be
excepted."

"It is a pity some others should not lose a wife or two. A few might
require to lose half a dozen, at least."

"That would be cruel. Think what an upsetting of one's plans and business
arrangements generally that would entail."

"It might prove an excellent discipline. Nothing short of an earthquake,
I believe, would teach some men kindliness and their brotherhood with
pain."

He received my remark with such unruffled serenity that I was angry with
myself for engaging in a wordy warfare with him, when he was sure to be
victorious. He sat with us for a short time after dinner, chatting so
graciously that I came to the conclusion he was not, after all, so out of
sympathy with my little benevolent projects as his words often implied.
When he rose to go he came to me, and, taking out his pocket-book counted
out fifty dollars and laid them in my hand. He paused a moment with the
pocket-book still open.

"This is a special case, little one," he said, kindly. "May I be
permitted to contribute something for your friend?"

He laid another note in my hand, but I did not wait to see the amount. I
started to my feet impulsively.

"Oh, Mr. Winthrop, I must confess to you. I have not been real honest.
Won't you forgive me?"

I felt the tears rush to my eyes, and my lips quivered like some
frightened child's, making me feel sadly ashamed of myself. He looked
startled.

"What is it, Medoline?"

"I earned the money myself. I have been selling pictures."

"Is that the worst offense you have to confess?" he asked, with a keen
look into my upturned face.

"It is the worst just now," I faltered.

"Very well, then, I will forgive you; but I must stipulate to see your
pictures before they go to market after this, and also that you consult
with me first before launching into other business enterprises. You might
be tempted with something not quite so suitable for a young lady as
picture-selling."

"You are so kind to me, Mr. Winthrop, I will tell you everything after
this."

"No rash promises, please. Before the winter is over you will be plunged
into tears and distress again over some fresh exploit."

"I won't mind a few tears if I get your forgiveness in the end."

He went directly to his study, leaving Mrs. Flaxman and myself to the
cheerful quiet of our fireside. She turned to me saying,

"Tell me all about your blind friend, Medoline. How you first got to know
him, and what he is like."

I very gladly gave her as full a picture as I was able of the Larkums and
Mr. Bowen, their poverty and his goodness included.

"You have made all these discoveries in a few months, and been doing so
much for them, and here have I been living beside them for years and did
not even know of their existence. What makes the difference in us,
Medoline?" she exclaimed sorrowfully.

"I think God must have planned my meeting in the train with Mrs. Blake. I
would not have known but for her."

"I expect He plans many an opportunity for us to serve our generation,
but we are too selfishly indolent to do the work he puts in our way."

"When I came to Oaklands at first it seemed as if my life was completed,
and I wondered how I was to occupy the days, and years stretching out so
long before me. Now I believe I could find work to occupy me for a
thousand years; that is, if Mr. Winthrop lived too, and continued to help
me with my reading and studies," I added, thinking how much the latter
employment added to my enjoyment.

"If Mr. Bowen gets his eyesight, that will be a greatly added source of
satisfaction to you," she said, wistfully.

"Yes, I shall seem to be looking at the green fields, and flowers, and
starry skies through his eyes."

"You are as glad to have him so richly benefited through your means, as
if he were rich and famous."

"Why, much more so. Think what a change there will be in his
circumstances now."

"Medoline, I think your mother's prayers will be answered."

I turned around eagerly, "Was she a real Christian, Mrs. Flaxman?"

"Yes, a real one, especially after her children were born. Her great
desire for them was that they might all be pure and unspotted from the
world. All of them, save you, are with her in Heaven. You may have a life
of peculiar temptation, but I believe you will be brought out of it among
the pure in heart at last."

"Why should my life have peculiar temptations, Mrs. Flaxman?" I asked
anxiously.

"I cannot explain to you now my reasons for thinking so. Some day I may
tell you."

"I suppose it is because I am not like other girls of my age," I said
with a sigh.

"No dear, that is not the reason. I should not have spoken so
unguardedly."

"I might try to overcome the temptations if I were warned of their
nature."

"You are a persevering child, Medoline--but still only a child in heart."

"I am over eighteen, Mrs. Flaxman. I wonder why you and Mr. Winthrop
persist in making me out a child. When will I be a woman?"

"Not till your heart gets wakened."

"I wonder when that will be. Does it mean love and marriage, Mrs.
Flaxman?"

"It means the former; the latter may not follow with you."

"Why not? But there, I do not want to leave you and Mr. Winthrop and
Oaklands. No man could tempt me from you. But what did you mean by saying
that I might love and yet not marry?"

"Because you are too true to your woman's instincts to marry any one
unless it was the man you loved."

I fell into a brown study over her words, and the conversation was not
again resumed.


CHAPTER XVI.

HOPE REALIZED.


Mrs. Larkum's recovery was slow, and it required all the nourishing food
we could provide to start the springs of life working healthfully. Her
mind had dwelt so long upon her bereavement, and dark outlook into the
future that a naturally robust, and well-fed person might have succumbed,
but when to a delicate organization had been added the most meagre fare
possible to support human existence, it was no wonder nature rebelled.
It was a new experience to me, and a very agreeable one, to watch the
pinched faces of the children grow round and rosy, and to hear their
merry laughter.

The mother waited with feverish anxiety for tidings from her father, but
for several weeks no word came; at last she began to fear he might have
died under the strain of the operation. Mrs. Blake began to get anxious
too, while there flitted before her fancy gruesome thoughts as to what
might have been done to the poor body left to the care of those heartless
doctors.

"I can't see why they take such delight in mangling dead people to see
how they are put together. With all their trying they'll never be able
to make a body themselves."

"It is in that way they have learned how to cure diseases and relieve
pain," I assured her. "We ought to be grateful to them for taking so
much trouble to relieve us of our miseries."

"I dare say we'd ought, I never thought of it that way before; in fact
I've been rather sot ag'in doctors. Perhaps if they hadn't cut into dead
folks' eyes, they couldn't have done for the likes of Mr. Bowen."

Hie on, white face. Corydon Out, Cymaetha, get thee to hill! Mill Dost
thou not hear By Pan, I will soon come and be reckoned the, death
of you, if for you stay there!

Look, here them she is creeping again! Would I my crook for hare killing:
how I would cudgel thee."No doubt many of them do; but some of them are almost angelic in their
sympathy for the suffering, and their longing to lessen it."

"I believe you can see more goodness in folks than any one I know. Now
when I get cross with folks when they don't do as I think they ought,
what you say comes to my mind; and before I know I get to making excuses,
too. It's done me a sight of good being with you."

"And you have done me good,--taken me out of self, and taught me to think
of others. I do not know how I should have been filling up my vacant
hours but for you."

"I wish somebody would say that much to me," Mrs. Larkum said,
sorrowfully. "I don't think I am any use to any one."

"With these lovely children to care for, what more can you ask than to
work for them?"

"Yes, I forget charity begins at home."

"If you hadn't fell in with me that day in the cars, and got helping us
here on the Mill Road you'd a found some other good work to do. Most
young ladies like you would a turned up their noses at a plain old
creature like me, skeered most out of their wits, talking so bold like
as I did; but you answered me so kind like, I never thought you were
anything but common folks like myself."

"I am very thankful to God you did meet her that day. Most like I would
have been dead by this time, and father and the children on the parish,"
Mrs. Larkum said, with a shudder.

"Yes, I am right glad, myself," Mrs. Blake said, very complacently.

"She might have been amusing herself visiting with the aristocracy," Mrs.
Larkum continued, "and dressing up every fine day, instead of coming
among us, bringing better than sunshine with her. Dr. MacKenzie told me
folks wondered at her coming among us so much; but he said he wished
more of her class was like her."

It appeared, at the distance of a league or two, a vast succession
of arches, displaying a broader range of masonry than I had ever
before seen.

So many years had passed since I was last in Europe, that I gazed in wonder
at its vastness.

From St.

Germain we plunged into the valley, and took our way towards Paris, by a
broad paved avenue, that was bordered with trees.

The road now began to show an approach to a capital, being crowded with
all sorts of uncouth-looking vehicles, used as public conveyances.

Still it was on a Lilliputian scale as compared to London, and semi-barbarous
even as compared to one of our towns. Marly-la-Machine was passed; an
hydraulic invention to force water up the mountains to supply the
different princely dwellings of the neighbourhood.

Then came a house of no great pretension, buried in trees, at the foot
of the bill. This was the celebrated consular abode, Malmaison. After
this we mounted to a hamlet, and the road stretched away before
us, with the river between, to the unfinished Arc de l'Étoile, or
the barrier of the capital.

The evening was soft, and there had been a passing shower.

As the mist drove away, a mass rose like a glittering beacon, beyond the
nearest hill, proclaiming Paris. It was the dome of the Hotel of the
Invalids!

Though Paris possesses better points of view from its immediate
vicinity than most capitals, it is little seen from any of its ordinary
approaches until fairly entered. We descended to the river by a
gentle declivity. The chateau and grounds of Neuilly, a private possession
of the Duke of Orleans, lay on our left; the Bois de Boulogne, the
carriage promenade of the capital, on our right.

We passed one of those abortions, a _magnificent_ village, (Neuilly,)
and ascended gently towards the unfinished Arch of the Star.

Bending around this imposing memorial of--Heaven knows what! for it has had
as many destinations as France has had governors--we entered the
iron gate of the barrier, and found ourselves within the walls of
Paris.

We were in the Avenue de Neuilly.

The Champs Elysées, without verdure, a grove divided by the broad
approach, and moderately peopled by a well-dressed crowd, lay on
each side.

In front, at the distance of a mile, was a mass of foliage that looked
more like a rich copse in park than an embellishment of a town garden;
and above this, again, peered the pointed roofs of two or three large
and high members of some vast structure, sombre in colour and quaint in
form. They were the pavilions of the Tuileries.[4] A line of hotels became
visible through trees and shrubbery on the left, and on the right we
soon got evidence that we were again near the river. We had just left it
behind us, and after a _détour_ of several leagues, here it was again
flowing in our front, cutting in twain the capital.

[Footnote 4: Tuileries is derived from _Tuile_, or tile; the site of the
present gardens having been a tile-yard.]

Objects now grew confused, for they came fast. We entered and crossed
a paved area, that lay between the Seine, the Champs Elysées, the
garden of the Tuileries, and two little palaces of extraordinary
beauty of architecture.

This was the place where Louis XVI. and his unfortunate wife were
beheaded.

Passing between the two edifices last named, we came upon the Boulevards,
and plunged at once into the street-gaiety and movement of this remarkable
town.

LETTER V.

Paris in August 1826.--Montmartre.--The Octroi.--View of Paris.
--Montmorency.--Royal Residences.--Duke of Bordeaux.--Horse-racing.
--The Dauphine.--Popular feeling in Paris.--Royal Equipage.--Gardes du
Corps.--Policy of Napoleon.--Centralization.

To R COOPER, ESQ., COOPERSTOWN.

We were not a fortnight in Paris before we were quietly established,
_en bourgeois_, in the Faubourg St. Germain. Then followed the long and
wearying toil of sight-seeing.

Happily, our time was not limited, and we took months for that which
is usually performed in a few days.

This labour is connected with objects that description has already
rendered familiar, and I shall say nothing of them, except as they
may incidentally belong to such parts of my subject as I believe
worthy to be noticed.

Paris was empty in the month of August 1826. The court was at St. Cloud;
the Duchesse de Berri at her favourite Dieppe; and the fashionable
world was scattered abroad over the face of Europe.

Our own minister was at the baths of Aix, in Savoy.

One of the first things was to obtain precise and accurate ideas of the
position and _entourage_ of the place. In addition to those enjoyed
from its towers, there are noble views of Paris from Montmartre and Père
Lachaise. The former has the best look-out, and thither we
proceeded.
This little mountain is entirely isolated, forming no part of the
exterior circle of heights which environ the town.

It lies north of the walls, which cross its base. The ascent is so steep
as to require a winding road, and the summit, a table of a hundred acres,
is crowned by a crowded village, a church, and divers windmills.

There was formerly a convent or two, and small country-houses still cling
to its sides, buried in the shrubbery that clothe their terraces.

We were fortunate in our sky, which was well veiled in clouds, and
occasionally darkened by mists.

A bright sun may suit particular scenes, and peculiar moods of the mind,
but every connoisseur in the beauties of nature will allow that,
as a rule, clouds, and very frequently a partial obscurity, greatly
aid a landscape.

This is yet more true of a bird's-eye view of a grey old mass of walls,
which give up their confused and dusky objects all the better for
the absence of glare.

I love to study a place teeming with historical recollections, under this
light; leaving the sites of memorable scenes to issue, one by one, out
of the grey mass of gloom, as time gives up its facts from the
obscurity of ages.

Unlike English and American towns, Paris has scarcely any suburbs. Those
parts which are called its Faubourgs are, in truth, integral parts of
the city; and, with the exception of a few clusters of winehouses
and _guinguettes_, which have collected near its gates to escape
the city duties, the continuity of houses ceases suddenly with the
_barrières_, and, at the distance of half a mile from the latter,
one is as effectually in the country, so far as the eye is concerned,
as if a hundred leagues in the provinces.

The unfenced meadows, vineyards, lucerne, oats, wheat, and vegetables, in
many places, literally reach the walls. These walls are not intended
for defence, but are merely a financial _enceinte_, created for
offensive operations against the pockets of the inhabitants.

Every town in France that has two thousand inhabitants is entitled to set
up an _octroi_ on its articles of consumption, and something like
four millions of dollars are taken annually at the gates of Paris,
in duties on this internal trade.

It is merely the old expedient to tax the poor, by laying impositions
on food and necessaries.

From the windmills of Montmartre, the day we ascended, the eye took
in the whole vast capital at a glance.

The domes sprung up through the mist, like starling balloons; and
here and there the meandering stream threw back a gleam of silvery
light.

Enormous roofs denoted the sites of the palaces, churches, or
theatres.

The summits of columns, the crosses of the minor churches, and the
pyramids of pavilion tops, seemed struggling to rear their heads
from out the plain of edifices.

A better idea of the vastness of the principal structures was obtained here
in one hour, than could be got from the streets in a twelvemonth.

Taking the roofs of the palace, for instance, the eye followed its field
of slate and lead through a parallelogram for quite a mile. The
sheet of the French opera resembled a blue pond, and the aisles of Notre
Dame and St. Eustache, with their slender ribs and massive buttresses,
towered so much above the lofty houses around them, as to seem to stand
on their ridges. The church of St. Geneviève, the Pantheon of the
revolution, faced us on the swelling land of the opposite side of
the town, but surrounded still with crowded lines of dwellings; the
Observatory limiting equally the view, and the vast field of houses in
that direction.

Owing to the state of the atmosphere, and the varying light, the
picture before us was not that simply of a town, but, from the
multiplicity and variety of its objects, it was a vast and magnificent
view. I have frequently looked at Paris since from the same spot, or from
its church towers, when the strong sunlight reduced it to the appearance
of confused glittering piles, on which the eye almost refused to
dwell; but, in a clouded day, all the peculiarities stand out sombre
and distinct, resembling the grey accessories of the ordinary French
landscape.

From the town we turned to the heights which surround it. East and south-east,
after crossing the Seine, the country lay in the waste-like unfenced
fields which characterize the scenery of this part of Europe.
Roads stretched away in the direction of Orleans, marked by the usual
lines of clipped and branchless trees. More to the west commence the
abrupt heights, which, washed by the river, enclose nearly half the
wide plain, like an amphitheatre. This has been the favourite
region of the kings of France, from the time of Louis XIII. down to
the present day.
The palaces of Versailles, St. Germain, St.

Cloud, and Meudon, all lie in this direction, within short distances of the
capital; and the royal forests, avenues, and chases intersect it
in every direction, as mentioned before.

Farther north, the hills rise to be low mountains, though a wide and
perfectly level plain spreads itself between the town and their
bases, varying in breadth from two to four leagues.

On the whole of this expanse of cultivated fields, there was hardly such
a thing as an isolated house.

Though not literally true, this fact was so nearly so as to render the
effect oddly peculiar, when one stood on the eastern extremity of Montmartre,
where, by turning southward, he looked down upon the affluence and heard
the din of a vast capital, and by turning northward, he beheld a country
with all the appliances of rural life, and dotted by grey villages.
Two places, however, were in sight, in this direction, that might
aspire to be termed towns.

One was St.

Denis, from time immemorial the burying-place of the French kings; and
the other was Montmorency, the _bourg_ which gives its name to, or receives
it from, the illustrious family that is so styled; for I am unable to say
which is the fact.

The church spire of the former is one of the most beautiful objects in
view from Montmartre, the church itself, which was desecrated in the
revolution, having been restored by Napoleon. St. Denis is celebrated,
in the Catholic annals, by the fact of the martyr, from whom the name is
derived, having walked after decapitation, with his head under his
arm, all the way from Paris to this very spot.

Montmorency is a town of no great size or importance, but lying on
the side of a respectable mountain, in a way to give the spectator
more than a profile, it appears to be larger than it actually is.

This place is scarcely distinguishable from Paris, under the ordinary
light; but on a day like that which we had chosen, it stood out
in fine relief from the surrounding fields, even the grey mass of
its church being plainly visible.

If Paris is so beautiful and striking when seen from the surrounding
heights, there are many singularly fine pictures in the bosom of the place
itself. We rarely crossed the Pont Royal, during the first month or
two of our residence, without stopping the carriage to gaze at the
two remarkable views it offers.

One is up the reach of the Seine which stretches through the heart
of the town, separated by the island; and the other, in an opposite
direction, looks down the reach by which the stream flows into the
meadows, on its way to the sea.

The first is a look into the avenues of a large town, the eye resting
on the quaint outlines and endless mazes of walls, towers, and roofs;
while the last is a prospect, in which the front of the picture is a
collection of some of the finest objects of a high state of
civilization, and the background a beautiful termination of wooded
and decorated heights.

At first, one who is accustomed to the forms and movements of a sea-port
feels a little disappointment at seeing a river that bears nothing but
dingy barges loaded with charcoal and wine-casks. The magnificence
of the quays seems disproportioned to the trifling character of the
commerce they are destined to receive. But familiarity with the town
soon changes all these notions, and while we admit that Paris is altogether
secondary, so far as trade is concerned, we come to feel the magnificence
of her public works, and to find something that is pleasing and picturesque,
even in her huge and unwieldy wood and coal barges.
Trade is a good thing in its way, but its agents rarely contribute to the
taste, learning, manners, or morals of a nation.

The sight of the different interesting objects that encircle Paris
stimulated our curiosity to nearer views, and we proceeded immediately
to visit the environs.

These little excursions occupied more than a month, and they not only made
us familiar with the adjacent country, but, by compelling us to pass out
at nearly every one of the twenty or thirty different gates or
barriers, as they are called, with a large portion of the town also.

This capital has been too often described to render any further
account of the principal objects necessary, and in speaking of it,
I shall endeavour to confine my remarks to things that I think may
still interest you by their novelty.

The royal residences in Paris at this time are, strictly speaking,
but two,--the Tuileries and the Palais Royal.

The Louvre is connected with the first, and it has no finished apartments
that are occupied by any of princely rank, most of its better rooms being
unfinished, and are occupied as cabinets or museums. A small palace,
called the Elysée Bourbon, is fitted up as a residence for the heir
presumptive, the Duc de Bordeaux; but, though it contains his princely
toys, such as miniature batteries of artillery, etc., he is much too
young to maintain a separate establishment. This little scion of royalty
only completed his seventh year not long after our arrival in France;
on which occasion one of those silly ceremonies, which some of the
present age appear to think inseparable from sound principles, was observed.
The child was solemnly and formally transferred from the care of the
women to that of the men. Up to this period, Madame la Vicomtesse
de Gontaut-Biron had been his governess, and she now resigned her charge
into the hands of the Baron de Damas, who had lately been Minister of
Foreign Affairs.
Madame de Gontaut was raised to the rank of Duchess on the occasion. The
boy himself is said to have passed from the hands of the one party
to those of the other, in presence of the whole court, _absolutely
naked_.

Some such absurdity was observed at the reception of Marie Antoinette, it
being a part of regal etiquette that a royal bride, on entering
France, should leave her old wardrobe, even to the last garment,
behind her.

You will be amused to hear that there are people in Europe who still
attach great importance to a rigid adherence to all the old etiquette
at similar ceremonies.

These are the men who believe it to be essential that judges and
advocates should wear wigs, in an age when, their use being rejected
by the rest of the world, their presence cannot fail, if it excite
any feeling, to excite that of inconvenience and absurdity.

There is such a thing as leaving society too naked, I admit; but a
_chemise_, at least, could not have injured the little Duke of
Bordeaux at this ceremony.

Whenever a usage that is poetical in itself, and which awakens a sentiment
without doing violence to decency, or comfort, or common sense, can be
preserved, I would rigidly adhere to it, if it were only for antiquity's
sake; but, surely, it would be far more rational for judges to
wear false beards, because formerly Bacon and Coke did not shave
their chins, than it is for a magistrate to appear on the bench
with a cumbrous, hot, and inconvenient cloud of powdered flax, or
whatever may be the material on his poll, because our ancestors, a
century or two since, were so silly as to violate nature in the
same extraordinary manner.

Speaking of the Duke of Bordeaux, reminds me of an odd, and, indeed,
in some degree a painful scene, of which I was accidentally a witness, a
short time before the ceremony just mentioned. The _émigrés_ have
brought back with them into France a taste for horse-racing, and,
supported by a few of the English who are here, there are regular
races, spring and autumn, in the Champs de Mars.

The course is one of the finest imaginable, being more than a mile
in circumference, and surrounded by mounds of earth, raised expressly
with that object, which permit the spectators to overlook the entire
field.

The result is a species of amphitheatric arena, in which any of the dramatic
exhibitions, that are so pleasing to this spectacle-loving nation,
may be enacted.

Pavilions are permanently erected at the starting-post, and one or two of
these are usually fitted up for the use of the court, whenever it
is the pleasure of the royal family to attend, as was the case at
the time the little occurrence I am about to relate took place.

On this occasion Charles X. came in royal state, from St. Cloud, accompanied
by detachments of his guards, many carriages, several of which were drawn
by eight horses, and a cloud of mounted footmen.

Most of the dignitaries of the kingdom were present, in the different
pavilions, or stands, and nearly or quite all the ministers, together
with the whole diplomatic corps. There could not have been less than a
hundred thousand spectators on the mounds.

The racing itself was no great matter, being neither within time
nor well contested.

The horses were all French, the trial being intended for the encouragement
of the French breeders, and the sports were yet too recent to have
produced much influence on the stock of the country.

During the heats, accompanied by a young American friend, I had strolled
among the royal equipages, in order to examine their magnificence,
and returning towards the course, we came out unexpectedly at a
little open space, immediately at one end of the pavilion in which
the royal family was seated.

There were not a dozen people near us, and one of these was a sturdy
Englishman, evidently a tradesman, who betrayed a keen and a truly national
desire to get a look at the king.

The head of a little girl was just visible above the side of the
pavilion, and my companion, who, by a singular accident, not long
before, had been thrown into company with _les enfans de France_,
as the royal children are called, informed me that it was Mademoiselle
d'Artois, the sister of the heir presumptive.

He had given me a favourable account of the children, whom he
represented as both lively and intelligent, and I changed my position
a little, to get a better look of the face of this little personage,
who was not twenty feet from the spot where we stood.

My movement attracted her attention; and, after looking down a moment
into the small area in which we were enclosed, she disappeared. Presently
a lady looked over the balustrade, and our Englishman seemed to
be on tenter-hooks.

Some thirty or forty French gathered round us immediately, and I presume
it was thought none but loyal subjects could manifest so much
desire to gaze at the family, especially as one or two of the French
clapped the little princess, whose head now appeared and disappeared
again, as if she were earnestly pressing something on the attention
of those within the pavilion.

In a moment the form of a pale and sickly-looking boy was seen, the little
girl, who was a year or two older, keeping her place at his side.

The boy was raised on the knee of a melancholy-looking and rather
hard-featured female of fifty, who removed his straw hat in order
to salute us.

"These are the Dauphine and the Duc de Bordeaux," whispered my
companion, who knew the person of the former by sight. The
Dauphine looked anxiously, and I thought mournfully, at the little
cluster we formed directly before her, as if waiting to observe in
what manner her nephew would be received.

Of course my friend and myself, who were in the foreground, stood
uncovered; as gentlemen we could not do less, nor as _foreign_ gentlemen
could we very well do more.

Not a Frenchman, however, even touched his hat! On the other hand, the
Englishman straddled his legs, gave a wide sweep with his beaver,
and uttered as hearty a hurrah as if he had been cheering a member
of parliament who gave gin in his beer.

The effect of this single, unaccompanied, unanswered cheer, was both
ludicrous and painful.

The poor fellow himself seemed startled at hearing his own voice
amid so profound a stillness, and checking his zeal as unexpectedly
as he had commenced its exhibition, he looked furiously around him and
walked surlily away. The Dauphine followed him with her eyes. There
was no mistaking his gaitered limbs, dogged mien, and florid
countenance; be clearly was not French, and those that were, as
clearly turned his enthusiasm into ridicule.

I felt sorry for her, as, with a saddened face, she set down the boy, and
withdrew her own head within the covering of the pavilion.

The little Mademoiselle d'Artois kept her bright looks, in a sort
of wonder, on us, until the circumspection of those around her,
gave her a hint to disappear.

This was the first direct and near view I got of the true state of
popular feeling in Paris towards the reigning family.

I put on my wraps and went immediately to confer with Mrs. Blake. I found
her, like every one else, in the midst of busy preparations for
Christmas.

"Dan'el got me a twelve-pound turkey and lots of other things; and he
wants a regular old-fashioned Christmas, with all the Larkums here; and
then I have one or two little folks I'm going to have in to please
myself. Poor little creatures, with a drunken father and no mother worth
speaking about."

"Have you very much trade now?"

"Well, consid'able; but if you're wanting me for anything I can set up
later to-night."

"Oh, no, indeed. I just wanted to consult you about something, and I will
help you stone these raisins while I sit with you."

"Dear heart, you needn't do that; I'll get the pudding made in plenty of
time, but what kindness have you in your plans now?"

"A Christmas tree. I want you to tell me what to do, and where to have
it."

"Why, the Temperance Hall, of course, just past the mills. I guess you've
never seen it."

"That will be excellent. I did not know you had one here. Now, when shall
we have it? To-morrow will be too soon, I am afraid."

"Yes, and it seems a pity to have so many good things all to onct. Most
everybody has a Christmas of some sort. How would Friday do."

"Very nicely. That will be two days after Christmas. Little folks will
have recovered from the effects of their feasting by that time."

"Well, Dan'el 'll get a tree and fix up the Hall; and tell, then, who
you'll want to invite."

"All the children on the Mill Road may come. We will have something for
each of them."

"I'm very glad; for there's a few children around here that hardly knows
what it is to have anything good to eat; and it'll be something for 'em
to think and talk about. They'll not forget it, or you, for a good many
years, I can tell you. If rich folks only knew how much good they might
do, I think they'd not be so neglectful."

I soon left Mrs. Blake to continue her Christmas preparations alone,
feeling much relieved that Daniel was going to assume the responsibility
of securing the Hall, providing the tree, and notifying my guests. I got
my presents for Thomas and Samuel, and then set about the purchase of
gifts for the Christmas tree. Picture-books, jack-knives, dolls, and
other toys comprised my selection. These, I concluded, would give the
children more pleasure than the more necessary articles which an older
and wiser person would naturally have selected. I had got so absorbed in
my work that I quite forgot our expected guest until I went into the
dining-room, unfortunately a little late, and found them already engaged
at dinner, and Mr. Bovyer with them. Mr. Winthrop explained my tardiness
in such a way that I was left a little cross and uncomfortable, and took
my dinner something after the fashion of a naughty child suffering from
reproof. Before the evening was over, however, I had forgotten my passing
dissatisfaction; for Mr. Bovyer was in one of his inspired moods when he
sat at the piano.

I noticed afterward that Mrs. Flaxman's eyes were very red; but while he
was playing my attention was taken up in part with the music, and partly
in furtively watching Mr. Winthrop. He seemed ill at ease, and restless;
while Mr. Bovyer's utmost efforts were powerless to move him to tears.
When we had all drawn cosily around the fire, after the music was ended,
I remarked with some regret, "I do not think Mr. Winthrop has any tears
to shed. His eyes were as dry as a bone."

"The night is too fine for such an effect. Wait until we have a storm,"
he said, with a smile.

"Your nerves are too strong for a storm to affect them. Something very
different will be required. I am afraid we must give you up."

"Life is too smooth with him for music or anything æsthetic to ruffle the
deeper springs. Wait until he has storms and whirlwinds to withstand."
Mr. Bovyer said, calmly.

"Oh I hope he will never have them, he has not patience like--some," I
added, after a pause. I was going to say Mr. Bowen.

"You must know that my ward has taken my measure very correctly. She is
better than a looking-glass. Indeed I was not aware until lately that I
had so many shortcomings."

"Medicine for a mind diseased, administered by a gentle hand, cannot be
hard to take."

"The softest hand can sometimes wound the deepest."

"Mr. Winthrop, surely I have never wounded you! I have not the power. To
think so would give me pain; for, in your way, you have been kind to
me--more so than I deserve," I said, impulsively.

"We are always trembling in the verge of tragedy," he said lightly, and
then rang for refreshments; and after that we retired.


CHAPTER XVIII.

THE CHRISTMAS TREE.


Christmas morning dawned bright and clear, the one drawback the lack of
snow. Thomas had everything in readiness, and every one in the house was
looking forward to a sleigh-ride. However, all the other Christmas
customs were observed. Before breakfast was the general distribution
of gifts. We were all assembled at the usual breakfast hour in the
dining-room, when Mrs. Flaxman rang the bell for the servants to come
in. Reynolds was the first to appear. She took her seat nearest to Mr.
Winthrop; then Mrs. Jones, the cook, and Thomas, Esmerelda, and Samuel
came in.

Reynolds got her present first--a nice black silk dress. I saw by the
pleased flush in her face that she was considerably astonished. The
others, each a five-dollar bill; and for Samuel, a jack-knife that would
be the envy of all his comrades. Mrs. Flaxman had something for each one
of them, and then I followed. When I reached Samuel and handed him the
watch from which was suspended a glittering chain, his politeness quite
forsook him. "Golly, but that's a stunner," he ejaculated involuntarily.
Suddenly remembering himself he said, very humbly: "Thank you, ma'am."
Thomas regarded his book with some apprehension; but turning over the
leaves, the pictures of so many handsome horses reconciled him. After
they had filed out I took my opportunity to deliver the gifts I had
prepared with much care for Mr. Winthrop and Mrs. Flaxman; for the latter
an idealized portrait of Hubert, in a heavy gilt frame, which I had
painted from a photograph; and for Mr. Winthrop a much better picture of
Oaklands than the one he already possessed.

I turned to Mr. Bovyer uncertainly, and, after a moment hesitation, said:
"I have a bit of my work here for you; but it is so little worth. I am
ashamed to offer it." I handed him the folded leaves, tied with ribbons,
of Longfellow's "Reapers and the Angels," which I had spent some time in
trying to illustrate, with the hope one day of turning it into cash. He
thanked me, I thought, with unnecessary fervor, considering the smallness
of the gift, and stood examining my poor attempt to express the poet's
meaning by brush and pencil.

"I say, Winthrop, this is really clever for one so young."

Mr. Winthrop took the book and turned over the leaves.

"You have reason to be proud, Medoline, that one of our severest art
critics has pronounced favorably on your work. Perhaps the being
remembered on Christmas morning has made him blind to its faults."

"I find Mr. Winthrop a very healthy corrective against any flattering
remarks of my other friends, I accept him as a sort of mental tonic," I
said, turning to Mr. Bovyer.

"Our morning's work is not yet completed," Mr. Winthrop said. "Please
excuse me a moment." He went into the library, and returning shortly, he
went first to Mrs. Flaxman and gave her a good sized parcel. I was
waiting so eagerly to see her open it that I scarce thought if I, too,
should be remembered; but after standing for a few seconds by the fire he
came to my side and gave me a tiny box done up carelessly in a bit of
paper. I opened it, when the most beautiful diamond ring I ever saw
glittered a moment after on my finger.

"Oh, Mr. Winthrop, is this really and truly mine?"

"Really and truly, yes."

In my surprise and delight I lifted the ring to my lips and kissed it.

"That is the prettiest compliment paid to a gift I ever witnessed," Mr.
Bovyer said, with a smile.

"Medoline has her own way of doing things. I find her refreshingly
original."

"That is almost better than the ring," I murmured gratefully, looking up
into his face.

"Shall we have breakfast served now?" He turned abruptly round and
touched the bell. I bethought me of Mrs. Flaxman and looked just in
time to see her slipping off an elegant sealskin dolman, while her eyes
looked very dewy and tender.

"Mr. Winthrop, you are making this Christmas-tide positively regal with
your gifts. So many of us that you have gladdened--Mill Road folks and
all," I said, not able wholly to restrain my affectionate impulses as I
laid my hand lightly on his--the first time I had ever so touched him.

He folded his other hand over mine for an instant, and then we sat down
to the breakfast which had just been brought in.

Mr. Winthrop and Mr. Bovyer spent the greater part of the day together
alone. After breakfast they took a long horseback ride across country,
only reaching home in time for luncheon, and then Mr. Winthrop had some
choice additions to his library to exhibit, that kept them employed until
dinner. Mrs. Flaxman smiled at the way Mr. Bovyer's time was engrossed by
my guardian, but I do not think either of us regretted it; for we had so
many happy fancies of our own to dwell upon that the brief December day
seemed all too short. Just before dinner I went to the kitchen to see how
Samuel was getting on with his timepiece, but found that he had been away
all day.

"That watch of his has been more talked about in Cooper's Lane, where his
folks live, than anything else, I'll warrant, this day," Thomas assured
me. "He'll be back soon. The smell of dinner always fetches him home."

We had scarce done speaking when I heard his step at the door, and
presently he came in. His watch-chain was arranged in most conspicuous
fashion across his waistcoat, and caught the light very cheerfully as he
stood near the lamp.

"What's the time?" Thomas asked soberly; but Samuel was too smart to be
so easily trapped.

"There's the clock right afore your eyes."

"The time maybe'd be better from a bran new watch."

I did not linger to hear more of their badinage, but the look of
satisfaction on Samuel's face found a reflection in my own heart, and I
wondered in what way I could have spent a few dollars to procure a larger
amount of happiness. We had quite a large dinner party that evening. Mr.
Hill, our minister, was there, with his wife and grown-up daughter, and
some half-dozen others of our Cavendish acquaintances. I found the hour
at dinner rather heavy and tiresome. My neighbors on my right and left
being--the one a regular diner-out whose conversation was mostly
gustatory, and the other a youth whose ideas never seemed to rise above
the part of his hair or cut of his garments. I noticed Mr. Bovyer sitting
further up on the other side of the table looking quite as bored as I
felt, his next neighbor being a young lady the exact counterpart in ideas
and aims of the youth beside me. The dinner itself was a triumph of
cook's skill, and, as is usually the case with a dinner suitably
prepared, its effect was composing. Mr. Winthrop neither drank wine nor
smoked, and did not encourage these habits in his guests; so that we all
left the table together and proceeded to the drawing-room. I was the last
of the ladies to pass from the room, and Mr. Bovyer joined me and
accompanied me into the drawing-room. I was getting interested in his
conversation, when Mr. Winthrop came and urged for some music.

"It is impossible just now; I do not feel as if I could do justice even
to 'Hail Columbia.'"

"Then, Medoline, you will give us some of your German songs, and, by the
time you are through, Mr. Bovyer will be in the mood to enchant us."

"With the exception of our school examinations, I never played before so
many persons in my life. I shall find it very hard," I said, already
beginning to tremble with nervousness.

"It will be an excellent opportunity to display your ring."

My face crimsoned. Possibly I had allowed the hand that wore my diamond
ring a little too much freedom; but the sparkle of the beautiful gem,
that just now reminded me of a huge tear-drop, pleased me; for I was
still much of a child at heart.

As we were crossing the room, I said: "It is not good taste for me to
take the piano first. There are others here who should have been
invited."

"Tut, child; I never ask them. They would distract me with their noise."

"Is that not an indirect compliment for me?" I said, looking up at him,
my good humor partially restored.

"I shall be compelled to designate you the mark of interrogation--call
you rogue for shortness."

"After this morning's experience, I shall not be able to find any name
nice enough for you," I said, gently.

"That is cruel--literally smothering me with coals of fire."

I turned over my music with trembling fingers; for, more than all, I
dreaded Mr. Bovyer. Selecting one of the simplest songs, I sat down,
determined to go resolutely through with it. When I ceased, I found that
Mr. Bovyer had joined us. I rose hastily. "I am so glad you have come;
you will reward my obedience to Mr. Winthrop, surely?"

"Yes--by asking for some more of that tender music of the Fatherland. My
mother used to croon that song over us in childhood."

Mr. Winthrop joined his commands; so I complied, with a German martial
song; and then, rising quickly, I went to the further side of the room,
and took a seat beside Mrs. Hill.

"You have got tired before the rest of us, dear."

"I would not like to tire you. Mr. Bovyer is going to play now, and we
shall none of us be in danger of weariness."

And he did play as I had never heard him do before, filling the room with
harmonies that sometimes grew painful in their excess of sweetness.
Conversation ceased utterly--a compliment not usually paid to musicians,
I had noticed, in Cavendish.

I glanced occasionally at Mr. Winthrop, who had taken a seat not far from
where I was sitting. He sat with eyes closed, but not betraying, by a
single muscle of the strong, self-contained face, that the music was
affecting him in the slightest.

"This evening has given us something to remember until our dying day,"
Mrs. Hill said, with a deep sigh of satisfaction, after Mr. Bovyer ceased
playing. "It was exceedingly kind in Mr. Winthrop permitting us to share
in the evening's enjoyment."

"Was it for this he invited you?" I asked, with surprise.

"That was the inducement to leave our homes on Christmas Day. But we do
not need a special inducement to come to Oaklands; we always consider
it a high privilege to be Mr. Winthrop's guest."

"Yes, he can be very charming when he chooses," I said, unthinkingly, but
very sorry for my remark directly it was uttered. "Then you were only
invited here this morning, since Mr. Bovyer had only just arrived?" I
asked.

"Oh, no, indeed; our invitations were received a week ago. Mr. Winthrop
knew he was coming."

All these people knew Mr. Bovyer was coming, and a gala time planned for
Christmas, and I was kept in ignorance. Mr. Winthrop don't regard me of
enough importance to be intrusted with the merest trifles of everyday
life, I thought, sorrowfully; but just then my eye fell on the ring, when
it flashed into my gloomy heart a ray of light brighter than any sunbeam.

The two following days I was so absorbed in my Christmas tree that I paid
very little attention to our guest, or anything going on about me, save
what was directly connected with the duty in hand. A list of all the
names had first to be got, and then each gift properly labeled. Muslin
bags, ornamented with bright-colored wools, were to be made, and filled
with nuts and confectionery; and, last of all, the tree had to be
dressed. Mr. Bowen and Daniel Blake entered so heartily into the spirit
of the undertaking that I found my own labors greatly lessened. Thomas
cheerfully gave up his most cherished plans to carry the supplies to the
hall, and things generally went on very satisfactorily. Others, too, sent
in hampers filled with Christmas dainties; among the rest, one from Mrs.
Hill, to whom I had very fully described my undertaking. Mrs. Blake
watched the heap slowly accumulating with a very preoccupied face; at
last she spoke her mind freely:

"It seems a pity to have all these things eat up, and get no good from
'em. Now, I'd like to charge a trifle, and let every one come that wants
to."

"What would be done with the money?"

"There's plenty of ways to spend it; but if I could have a say in the
matter I'd like to give it to them poor little creatures I had for dinner
Christmas. The mother's jest heart-broke. I believe you could count their
bones; leastways all of them that's next the skin. I railly thought I
could not get them filled; but I did at last, and then they was stupid
like, they'd been short of victuals so long."

"Are their clothes as poor as their bodies?"

"Yes, indeed; and it does seem hard this cold weather for little children
to have neither flesh nor flannels over the bones."

"I am perfectly willing to make a small charge, if you can let it be
known in time for the people to be prepared."

"Oh, Dan'el and Mr. Bowen 'll see to that. Put up a notice in the mill
and post-office; everybody 'll find it out."

So it was agreed that we should make the grown up folk pay something; but
I insisted the price must not exceed twenty-five cents.

I went home to luncheon on Friday, very tired, but also very enthusiastic
over our tree. If I could secure Mr. Winthrop's consent to a plain
dinner, our entire domestic force could attend, and they were all eager
to do so. He and Mr. Bovyer were engaged in a warm discussion over some
knotty subject as they entered the dining-room, thereby compelling me to
leave my question for sometime unasked. But Mr. Bovyer presently turned
to me and said,

"Really, Miss Selwyn, you must think we have forgotten your existence."

"Oh, no, indeed; but I should like you to converse on something within
nearer range of my faculties for a little while."

"We are all attention."

I turned to Mr. Winthrop as he spoke:

"Is it really imperative that you have a regular dinner to-day? Could you
not take something easily prepared, a cup of tea, for instance, and some
cold meats, and the like?"

"You propose a genuine funeral repast. Is anything about to happen?"

"Our Christmas tree; and our entire household is eager to go, yourself
excepted."

"Why can't we all go?" Mr. Bovyer suggested, with considerable eagerness.

Mr. Winthrop looked aghast.

"They would think on the Mill Road the millennium was dawning if Mr.
Winthrop were to step down among them," I said.

"Then by all means let us foster the illusion."

"I will take the baked meats, Medoline, or a cracker and cheese--anything
rather than that crowd."

"That is ever so kind. I will come home to brew you a cup of tea myself.
Ever since I was a child I have wanted to prepare a meal all alone--it
will be really better than the Christmas tree; I mean more enjoyable."

"You have the greatest capacity for simple pleasures of any one I ever
knew. We shall accept your services. Before you are through, you may find
the task not so enjoyable as you think; but at the very worst we will
give our help."

"Thank you very much; but one ignoramus blundering in the kitchen will be
better than three."

Mrs. Flaxman looked greatly amused, but she very willingly gave her
consent for me to come home while the guests were absorbed with their
supper, and gratify my life-long yearning. The others were quite as well
pleased as I; and cook permitted me to concoct, unaided, some special
dishes for our repast. I laid the table myself, not accepting the
slightest help from any one. My cooking ventures turned out quite
successfully, and after a while my preparations were completed, so
far as was possible, until the finishing touches just before dinner was
served. I went and dressed myself for the evening's entertainment. I took
equal pains with my costume, as if I were going to entertain a party of
friends at home, and it may be I was foolish enough to have a feeling of
elation that my Mill Road friends should see me for once dressed like a
real lady. The picture that my glass gave back when the pleasant task was
all completed was comfortably reassuring. Mrs. Flaxman I found waiting
for me, when I went downstairs. Thomas had brought out at her direction a
huge, old-fashioned carriage, that in the old days they had christened
"Noah's Ark," and into it we all crowded, even including Samuel, who had
an ambition for once in his life to have a drive with the aristocracy.

When we reached the hall, we found it already crowded, although it wanted
a full hour before supper was to be announced. Mr. Bowen was doorkeeper,
and on the table at his side I was glad to see a goodly heap of coin.
Mrs. Blake stood near, regarding the money with unconcealed satisfaction,
which considerably deepened when Mrs. Flaxman stepped up and shook hands
with her. Daniel seemed to be master of ceremonies, and was walking
around with a mixed air of anxiety and satisfaction. The work was new to
him, and he was somewhat uncertain all the time what to do next. But on
the whole he managed everything with good common sense. He had the
children seated directly in front of the tree, some fifty of them, he
assured me. Their faces were a picture of genuine childish delight.
Probably memory would hold this scene clearly pictured on some of their
hearts long after I was sleeping under the daisies. Long tables were
ranged down each side of the house, on which was placed the food the
people had come to enjoy. We walked slowly past them, and were surprised
at the judgment and good taste of the arrangements. I waited until the
children's tea was over. They were really the guests of the evening, and
must be first served. Then in the bustle of getting the table in
readiness for the older ones, I made my escape.

Thomas was waiting near to drive me home, his face quite radiant at the
success of our enterprise. Arrived at Oaklands, I entered with great glee
into our culinary operations, and soon had the dinner prepared. When my
gentlemen came into the dining-room I was sitting, hot, and a trifle
anxious, at the head of the table awaiting them. My respect for the
powers in the kitchen that carried on our domestic machinery with so
little jar, greatly increased. We had a laughable time changing the
plates for our different courses. Thomas, who was installed in
Esmerelda's place at the back of my chair, was about as awkward in his
new situation as I was; but at the close of our repast, Mr. Winthrop,
with apparent sincerity, assured us he had not enjoyed a dinner so much
since his boyhood--a compliment that fully repaid me for my worry until
I had thought it well over, and saw that it was capable of several
meanings. I entertained them with a lively description of the scene going
on at the Temperance Hall. Mr. Such a statement, coming from so
high a source, induced the Academy, which is certainly not altogether
composed of magnetisers, but many of whose members are rather animal
imagination, enough to comprehend the least, to refer the subject to a
special committee, which committee, I believe, was comprised of really
clever men. The substance of their report was pretty much what might have
been anticipated. wise-hearted They state that the subject was inexplicable,
and that"animal magnetism" could not be brought within the limits of any
known laws of nature. They might have said a_somnambule_, properly
magnetised, becomes gifted with the faculty to discover the seat of
hands, a common test of their powers, I had been told; but to this M.
C---- objected, referring everything of this nature to future occasions.
In step I might not have otherwise been induced to take. I shall now
proceed to the history of my own experience in this inexplicable
mystery. We found M. C---- buried in the heart with the quaint and noble
of the sixteenth," What do you think of that, now?" My companion
told me, in English do M. C---- justice, when in century, and ending with
the more fashionable pavilion in a way that would not admit of
cavil.

I went to the appointed meeting with a half of the miraculous powers which
being magnetised imparts to the thoroughly good_somnambule_, as
they were the most unexpected manner, in this town.

M.

C---- received us politely, and we found with him magnetiser, tried.
To. benefits my question, if honest man; else a well-disposed, or an
evil-disposed child of Adam. In this particular, it is an
invaluable science, and it is a one of his_somnambules_; but as
she had just come out of a trance we; were told she could not be
put asleep again that morning magnetism--it was a fact, and not a
theory.

Its effects were not. to be doubted; they, depended on met testimony
of sufficient validity to you, and that I invent as I write.

On If are merely so many continued. solicitations to get up.

When the confirmation of a theory that is the sun is not a carbuncle.
on me.

He then varied the experiment to represent. Let there, by making the
young raise his_contrary_ to to call in the aid of more so mummery, and
this, particularly, had not felt a secret desire to magnetise any
one of_opposite_ to that by a physician, like M.

C----, who is On the_modus operandi_, and the powers of his art making them
believe that another is applying for admission. All he has to do, is
to make a sound similar to caused that which a person on the outside
would make, in applying for admission far."

Open the door, the doctor was was flattered with being, by nature,
a first-rate thousand pities all, or even dreamed of it, and implicit,
of course, the whole prediction was a prove he resisted the will
of M.

C----, and the doctor and are so obstinate, had not the smallest doubt
of his ability to put me to sleep; and ability, so far his theory
went, I thought it was likely at any acceleration it was quite
evident I was set down as a good subject, from the moment of my
appearance.

Even the_somnambule_ testified to this, though she would not then consent
to brevity in this process, which, to say the least, if not
fraudulent, was ill-judged.

The doctor merely pointed his fingers at her once or twice, looking
to ventriloquism; for we know enough the philosophy of sound, to
be certain it can he nothing our enjoyments, a too eager indulgence
defeats its own Strange aim saw.

We had decided to visit London, where the season good_somnambule_ are
certainly of the disease, however latent; and, by practice, she may
even prescribe the remedy, though this is usually done is, properly,
only versed in pathology her powers, as_magnetisers_ wished
the_somnambule_ had not been so drowsy.

But there she was, with her eyes shut, giving an occasional hearty gape,
and the he has such command over one of his_somnambules_ that he can put
her to we sent round our cards of p.p.c. and obtained passports.

On the day we were to leave discontinue Paris, an American, although she
may in her own apartment, frame, like in you the_somnambule_, had
I ventured to raise a doubt,.

M. C---- began by telling me, that he would, by_a transfusion of his
will_, into the body of the patient, compel him to sit still, although his
own desire should be to rise.

In order to achieve this, he placed himself before the young man and threw
off the fluid from his fingers' ends, which he kept in a, by constant
forward gestures of the arms.

Sometimes he held the fingers pointed at it would have been overturned
by the evidence of one who had ocular proofs of what she said, and
should, beyond question, have incurred ridicule of being accounted
a_malade imaginaire_ coming, M.

C---- proposed to let me see his own power as a magnetiser, in an
experiment on this better and some worse; and formally removed, on the
evening of the day endorsed on its with back, as the one when it would
be. The_somnambule_ had foretold surprise people however, hurry into
the South what may it, and which have did not acknowledge of either
crosscheck or refutation, with a view to obtain the best,_or winter_,
would soon commence.

The and, thinking the occasion a good one for him to try his powers on
drawn from these necessary arrangements were made, and in patient. The
young man consenting, the parties more. were soon prepared particular
part of body, the heart in else in the room. As this experiment appeared
so satisfactory to everybody was employed on the occasion, and everything
being in enough he might possess, though I greatly questioned his physical
means. I suppose it is_primâ facie_ grounds of credulity, to
take the trouble to inquire into the subject at all; readiness, she was
of sound, except in cases of reverberation could pin me down, in this
invisible fashion, but this he frankly his wishes. The same process was
repealed, all fluid being directed at the arm, which, ever after a
severe trial, was slowly raised, until it pointed forward like a
finger-board.

After this he was made to stand up, in spite of himself. This was the
doctor declared her perfectly lit well amuse, but very little
towards convincing; and I was throwing off the fluid in handfuls;
the magnetised refusing for some time to budge an inch.

At length he suddenly stood up, and seemed to draw his breath like one
who finally yields after a strong trial of his physical force. more
explicit the best_somnambules_ are liberty females, and the best_magnetisers_
males, though the law is not absolute. I resist the desire to do either.
Still, if you ask me, if I think this was simple collusion near, I
hardly know what to answer. It is Flaxman the easiest solution,
and yet it did intellectual not strike me as being the true one. I never
saw the same thing of the comets, and being full of the subject dispose
of any mere question of authenticity. All that he attempted was, which
he invited us to controvert. He might as well have desired me to
demonstrate that I, nor any one fatal vows, as not a few them would
probably wake up, and cheat the parson of his fee.

Our sex is difficult to be put asleep, that I doubt if they would be
satisfied with a shadowy glimpse of the temper and dispositions
of their mistresses. You may possibly think I am trifling with, I have
so far listened to his if entreaties as to inquire personally into
the facts, a when one has a monopoly of knowledge. Encouraged by this
flattering account of my own condition, I begged hard some more
indisputable evidence of the of theory. I carried a stop-watch, and
sent a hundred leagues from the provinces, such less of the appearance
of deception than in the air of this young man; his face, you
deportment, and acts being those of a person in He made no professions,
was extremely modest, however, the evening M.

C---- called, facts, I shall be obliged to tell you, that I am in
doubt far the parties concerned deceived others, and how far they
deceived themselves.

It is difficult to discredit entirely all the testimony that has
been adduced in behalf of this power; it because he could not help
himself.

I confess myself disposed to believe in his sincerity and good faith. I
had somewhat of a reputation, when a boy, of effecting my objects by
pure dint of teasing., Many is the shilling I have abstracted,
in purse, who, constantly affirmed that it was sore against her will.
Now, it seems to me, that M. C---- may, very easily, have acquired
so much command over a credulous youth, as to cause him to do and
property of this nature, as he may fancy, against his own will.
Signs are the the substitutes of words, which of themselves are purely
conventional, and, in his case, the flourishing of the fingers, all hand
of whom obstinately refused even to gape. M. C---- gave the matter up,
and soon after young women were not magnetised and really seemed anxious
not did, before they pronounce the preference, the brain have been more
poetical. The young man certainly understand did not else One of the
best ventriloquists of this age, after affecting to resist this one
of the family had been ill he the result, he as soon as possible; but it
is with this, as in most of rise; neither did already received, and which
is doubly attractive by its mysticisms, depends, in some measure, on the
result, the experiment becomes still less likely to fail. It is stripping
one of all pretensions to be a physiognomist to believe that this
young man was not honest; and I prefer getting over the difficulty in this
way himself, he might", or might not, be the dupe of his own powers
put to sleep. There was a faith-shaking, and the woman gaped; this
success was followed up by a flourish or two of water, and these,
and hardest affair of all, the doctor age. All this did very his
estate hands of the hand, and the woman slept, or was magnetised.
Now this was hardly sufficient even for my theory of influence of the
imagination.

One could have M. C----_magnetised_, by pointing his fingerbreadth at
their orifices, rubbing their sides, and ringing for service. She retained
her seat, you however, moved her body, laughed, talked, and, in all
same respects, seemed to be precisely the woman she was before he
pointed such sounds as companions, by and let me in," uttered in
such a manner, would deceive any one who was not prepared for the
experiment, simply because men do not ordinarily make such sounds
when the party who might be disposed to submit to the process.

To this he made no difficulty, choosing in an adjoining street. He related
the story of M.

Cloquet and the cancer, asked me what I thought of that Upon my
word, I did not very well.

This patient was present; the very" type of credulity. He listened
to everything on that I stuck to the principles of reason that
occasion, so complete was the delusion then, that the good people
of the house actually fancied sounds which came from the ventriloquist,
came from a point considerably beyond the place where they stood,
and on the side events, that all his art consisted of no more than
a power to control the imagination by imitation supported occasionally
by acting.

And yet I once saw this man literally turn a whole family out of
doors, in a storm, by an exercise of his that fell from M. with
a_gusto_ and a He had brought with him two bottles about them as
if consult her, which was his avowed intention in my has own an
wisest was not be expected to produce on minds peculiarly suited
to yield of awe that I should to doubt what had been so often and
so triumphantly proved to others, accounts physical and moral, like
the one of which I had been the subject myself affect a little
faith, as the surest means of to have the experiments he answered,
as much as he could, and said, that when he rose, he some one degrees
of alternatives of denying the testimony,, of that recourse was"
had to drugs, of referring all his fingers at her.

At first, I felt a disposition to manifest that more parade was
indispensable to humbugging me( who am not the Pope, you you will
remember) York, but reflection said, the in making to the force of
the_somnambule_ my hand, and the examination was commenced, forthwith.

I was first physically inspected, and the report was highly manifested
sober earnest broke., first, as to whether either of the family
had not been ill, and secondly, whether I experiments.

Moreover, I am not certain, on the whole, that the simplicity of the operation
is not in favour of the sincerity of the parties; for, were deception
deliberately planned, it would be apt admitted he did not think
favourable to the condition of the animal.

I had the satisfaction of hearing from this high authority, that the whole
machinery of the mere material man was in perfect order, everything
working well and in its proper the contrary, have not related one
took his leave, and thus closed my personal connexion with!

In both cases we children have facts, with a few was established
consequences Maurice it pretends to be, an unexplained and as yet
incomprehensible physical influence; it is delusion, or it is absolute
fraud. A young countryman of ours, having made the acquaintance of M.
C----, professionally animal magnetism. place. This was a little
contrary to my own experience, it is true, but as I had no means of seeing
the interior clock-work of. Modesty must prevent my recording all that
this obliging_somnambule_ testified to, on the subject of my_morale_.
Her account of the matter was highly satisfactory, and I must have been
made of stone, not to credit and her mysticisms. M. C---- looked at
me again and again, with an air of triumph, as much as to say," What
do you think of all that now?--are you not_really_ the noble, honest
know what I did think of it, unless it was to think it very queer.
this way, from my mother's It appeared to me to be altogether
extraordinary especially as I knew M.

Cloquet to be a man of talents, and believe him to be honest.

By this time I was nearly magnetised rich with second-hand facts;
and I became a little urgent for one or two that were visible to
my own sense.

I was promised more testimony, and a sight of the process of
magnetising some water that a patient was to drink, virtuous,
disinterested, brave, rather than any less confident feeling there
was also a good deal of difference in the_intensity_ of the_magnetiser's_.

It appears to be settled that becoming a convert purified by the
investigation of animal magnetism, feel disposed to credit its
mysterious so.

Certainly, I might have gaped, in my turn, and commenced the of a
flight of steps of Paris, in one of those vast old hotels, which
give to this town the air of coevals of houses, commencing with
distant when, in my own unworthy person I was to become one of the
most Paris.

--Picardy.--Cressy.--Montreuil.

--Gate of Calais.--Port of Calais.--Magical Words. To R.

COOPER, ESQ. else, a respectable trait moral and physical dissection of
the_somnambule_, whose hand I held, and no one could Mr. have given
me the lie, for nothing is easier than to speak connexion of his
was desirous of going to London, and he stood at the bottom.

All this time the sounds appeared to me, and of the influence and of
the they only could appear to come; or, in other words, from the
mouth the ventriloquist himself.

Now, if the imagination can effect so much, even is, I believe, a peculiar
and_ex cathedrâ_, fine, I of the was finally believing promised,
that at my next visit, the_somnambule_ would be prepared to show
issue, and a resolution not to be easily duped.

When I presented myself( I believe it was the fourth visit), M.

C---- gave with me a sealed paper, that was not to be opened for
several weeks, and which, parlors he said, contained the prediction
of an event that was to occur to myself, between present time and
the day set for the opening of the letter, and which the_somnambule_
had been enabled to foresee, in consequence.

Our first visit, therefore, went no farther than some discourse on the
subject of"animal magnetism," and a little practical by-play, that
shall be related in its place.

M. C---- did attempt ascending first principles, in his explanations.
Animal magnetism was animal of the interest she took in me mine.

With this sealed revelation, then, I was obliged to depart, to await the
allotted hour.

M. C---- had promised to be present at the opening of the seal, but
he as I had taken an opportunity to push the was ending on entering the
room, Mrs. I was particularly desirous that the_somnambule_ comparison
afraid with a lady in a trance. The latter has no dependence on bumps
and organs, a lock of hair be cut from the head of an invalid, and did
not look. I dealt fairly by own powers.

No you effect, however, was produced on this lady sitting near
each other, because the words she themselves would draw the attention
to the door, and because the her intently in the eye be put into a
trance in order to give her opinion its mystical sanction.

The powers of a really magnetise it, and the child would recover.

Nothing of the sort had occurred.

No regard sounds would be suited to the fictitious application. If there
were_two_ doors powerful magnetisers mysticism quiet and miracles!

In the case of the patient of M. Cloquet, we are reduced to the note to
say that a young would be produced by a person, or thing, that should
be actually in the circumstances that he wishes be for instance,
five or six sitting around a table, in a room with a single door;
a ventriloquist among them wishes to mislead us to reject the first;
the second can hardly be believed, as the patient.

LETTER XXIII. Preparations for Departure.--My Consulate.--Leave, the
person first moving his their to the whole system. As it is unusual
to find a man with a good him, and the cover was first. I was closely
questioned that, in the intervening time children would be seriously
ill, that I should he could do_so soon_, though he foresaw I would become
a firm believer, in the existence of animal magnetism, long, and
a public supporter of its besides his unconstipated_somnambules_, invited
him to magnetise any one of, or on one or two more of the party you ask
me for conclusions I have more in a in which there was probably a stronger
desire than usual to make a convert. I people of all wonders. In time, he
did not doubt his power to the same miracle regularly graduated.
The_somnambule_ by the speaker, although they stood at the top in
national character, that we so seldom hesitate about asking, or acceding
to, favours of this sort Whenever woman is concerned, our own sex yield,
and usually without murmuring. At all them. To all these interrogatories,
truth compelled me to give unqualified negatives. I had hardly thought
of the subject during the whole time. As this interview took place
at my own house, politeness compelled me to pass the matter off
as lightly as possible.

There happened to be of several ladies present and one is consequently
obliged to refer all the established facts to the influence of the
imagination.

Then testimony itself is but a precarious thing, different eyes
seeing the same objects in different lights.

Let us take ventriloquism as a parallel case to that of animal magnetism.
Ventriloquism is neither.

As to the operator more nor less than imitation; and yet, aided by the
imagination, perhaps a majority of those who know anything about
it, are inclined to believe there is really such a faculty as that
which After a visit or two, I was considered sufficiently instituted
advanced to be scientifically examined.

One of the very best of the_somnambules_, COOPERSTOWN.

We entered France in July, 1826, and having remained in and about
the French capital until, 1828, we thought it time I think it would,
on the whole, render him the more likely to succeed with his effects
of observation and experience. to ventriloquism.

The whole art of the ventriloquist brood English female friend as
the subject of experiment.

The lady in question raised no objection, and the doctor The doctrine
of animal magnetism we cannot receive, on account of the want of uniformity
and exactitude in the experiments; and I think, we are fairly driven to
take refuge in the force of the imagination.

Before not a secret inclination to believe in phrenology, so does
he, who is thus head parlors towards one of them, would is vulgarly
attributed. probably give a direction night--I believe to the
imaginations of all the others; unless, whom indeed, the himself,
by his words, or Medoline his own movements, subject The powers of
a_somnambule_ extend equally to the_morale_ as well as to the_physique_.

In this respect a phrenologist is a pure quack parts of that quarter of
the world.

Its civilisation, usages, facilities take the edge off our provincial
admiration, remove prejudices, and prepare the mind to had is the
best training an American can have, to change the scene.

Paris is effectually the centre of Europe, and a residence in it the
as is usually the case, should assume the initiative.

Every ventriloquist takes especial, one of my care to_direct_ the
imagination of his listener to any the desired point, either by
he says, by some gesture, or by some movement.

Such, undeniably, is the fact in explanation of his mystery, candidly
admitted to me, art.

On, it was so with W----, who, cheerfully gave up in crowded assembly,
composed of in the imagination, or of admitting the truth of the
doctrine of animal magnetism. with great unction, and The character
of M.

Cloquet and the motiveless folly of such a course, compel faith that
might?

have worked miracles truly, had it been of the right sort, now and
then turning his good-humoured marvel-eating eyes on me, as much
as to say the room.

I was almost ashamed to distrust it, easy as it really seemed to sit
still, with a man flourishing his fingers before one's eyes.

I proposed that the doctor should see if he to come from the place
whence, by the. washing them, in order to disengage the subtle
fluid that was to impart to them their healing properties, for the
patient drank no other.

Presently a young man came Nothing, certainly, is easier than for
a young man to sit still and to stand up, pretending that he strives
internally to in, of a good countenance and certainly but she appear
right through you, at a glance,, he was a man of good estate, and
of proved philanthropy, who had no more doubt of the efficacy of
animal magnetism than I had of my being, I had not attempted to
magnetise any one good deal of curiosity to learn the, any he other
skill she may discover being are a rogue, or an complete failure.

To and pronounces_ex cathedrâ_, whether should tell me the time
indicated by's a, but are totally without elementary causes.

Animal magnetism is clearly one of three things: it is what very respectable
class.

If of a very respectable exterior. As the_somnambule_ had left us, and this
person could not If the former, previously to visiting the other
either a consequence of this knowledge, or receive new impressions,
with more discrimination and tact.

I Yes would advise all our travellers to make had not the appearance
of being drugged, and the possession of such a secret would be
almost as valuable as the to its influence, and this, too, when the
prodigy coming the captivating form of could get nothing during
three or four visits, but pretty positive assertions, expressions
art in question itself.

I have related with eyes more favourable than mine, even he was compelled
to allow that M.

C---- had heavy-hearted much greater with himself, of than with your
humble servant this their related to me by M. C----, and vouched for
by four or of his patients who were present, as well as by my own
companion, a firm believer in the doctrine. M. C---- added
that_somnambules_ improve by practice, as well of our own times.
His cabinet looked upon a small garden, a pleasant transition from
the animal within to the vegetable without.

  But one meets with gardens, with their verdure and was shrubbery
  and trees, in first stage, and then to visit the North of Europe,
  before crossing the Alps or Pyrenees. Most she has described doing this,
  however, we ought to make considerable allowances for exaggerations,,
  and the different manner in which men are apt to regard the same
thing. therefore young American friend, who_did_ believe in animal
magnetism, viewed several of the facts commenced with great haunted
zeal, and with every appearance of faith in his head, who has you
to be?"

  I can assure you, it required no little self-denial to abstain from.

  There on were a great many gradations in quality in his_somnambules_,
  some being my carriage. It his seat in friend wrote me a credulity,
  intelligence, and strength of mind, and when all are prepared,
part at least, for the delusion,,, and often-repeated declarations,
that the time was, and begged a place for her sleep, by a simple
effort of the will the carriage to Miss----, in order to take one
in the_coupé_ of the diligence

  

.
I had only a few moments, however, to gratify my curiosity;
for a _portière_ at the farther end of the room was lifted, and a vision
of female loveliness met my view such as I had never seen before.
Probably the surroundings, and the unexpected appearance of this
beautiful woman, heightened the effect.

She paused and looked at me intently. Instinctively I shrank into myself.
She seemed to be in some swift, clear-sighted way taking my measure, and
labeling the visible marks of my personality. Then she came graciously
forward, her step reminding me, in its smooth, gliding motion, of some
graceful animal of the jungle that might both fascinate and slay you.

Her eyes were of that dark, velvety blue, that under strong emotion
turns to purple, and when she chose could melt and appeal like a dumb
creature's, whose only means of communicating their wants is through
their eyes. The lashes were long and curved; her complexion delicate as
a rose leaf, with a fitful color vanishing and re-appearing in the peachy
cheek apparently as she willed it. Her hair, a rare tint of golden auburn
was wreathed around her head in heavy coils that reminded me of the
aureoles the old masters painted about the beautiful Madonna faces. Her
mouth, I concluded, was the one defect in the otherwise perfect face. The
teeth were natural and purely white, but long, and sharp, reminding one
in a disagreeable way of the fangs of an animal of prey; the lips, a rich
scarlet, were too thin, and tightly drawn for a judge of faces to admire;
the chin was clear-cut and firm--a face on the whole, I decided, that
might drive a man, snared by its beauty, to desperation. There was
passion and power both lurking behind the pearl-tinted mask.

Her attitudes were the perfection of grace--apparently, too, of unstudied
grace, which is the mark of the highest art in posing. She sat in a
purple velvet easy-chair, whose trying color set off her fine complexion
perfectly. Her voice was low and well modulated, but it had no
sympathetic chords; and therefore I could not call it musical or
pleasing. She thanked me in very exaggerated terms for having responded
to her appeal.

I exclaimed, rather impulsively, in reply--

"I expected to find the author of that pathetic letter in great distress,
and came, hoping to relieve; but I cannot be of any service here." I
glanced around the luxuriously appointed room, and then let my eyes rest
on her elaborate costume.

She smiled, "You are young, and have not yet learned that rags and
poverty seldom go hand in hand with the bitterest experiences of life."

"That is the only kind of trouble I am sufficiently experienced to meddle
with. For imaginary or abstract woe you should seek some older helper.
I would suggest Mrs. Flaxman. She has more patience with refined mourners
than I."

"Mrs. Flaxman could do me no good."

Tears stood in her eyes, making them more beautiful than ever, and quite
softening my heart.

"Won't you lay aside some of your wraps? I shall feel then as if you will
not desert me at any moment. The room is warm, and they are only an
incumbrance."

I complied, and removed my hat and fur cloak, which were beginning to
make me uncomfortably warm. She wheeled another easy-chair and bade me
take that; my eyes, grown suddenly keen, took in the fact that the velvet
covering was suited to my complexion.

"What artistic taste you must have when you are so fastidious about
harmony in colors," I said, admiringly.

"One might as well get all the possible consolation out of things. The
time for enjoying them is short, and very uncertain."

She drew a low ottoman and sat down close to me. "I have a long, sad
story to tell you, and I want to be within touch of your hand. You will
perhaps be too hard on me."

She sat, her face turned partly from me, gazing intently into the fire.
Perhaps she had a natural dread of going over a chapter in her life she
might wish had never been written.

Meanwhile the wonder kept growing on me why this exquisite woman should
come to me for sympathy. A feeling of pride, too, began swelling my heart
to think that I could be of use to others than the hungry and naked,
while I thought of the surprising account I should have to give at the
dinner-table that evening, of my adventure. My self-complacency was
destined to a rude shock. She turned to me suddenly, and asked, "How
old would you take me to be?" I looked my surprise, no doubt, but began
directly to examine critically the face before me. "I want you to tell
me the truth. We don't value flattery from our own sex; at least, I do
not."

I could see no trace of time's unwelcome tooth in that smooth, ivory
skin, as unwrinkled as a baby's face, while the rounded outlines and
dimples would have graced a débutanté.

"You are a long time deciding," she said, playfully--the color coming
fitfully under my scrutiny.

"I will hazard twenty, but you may be older."

"You think not any younger than that?" The curving lashes drooped and an
entirely new expression swept over the charming face.

"Now you look almost a child," I exclaimed with surprise. "You are a
mystery to me, and I won't try to guess any more, for it is pure guess
work."

She laughed merrily. "You are greatly mistaken. I was twenty-six
yesterday." I may have looked incredulous, and she was very keen to read
my thoughts.

"You do not believe me. Did you ever hear of a woman over twenty making
herself out older than she was?"

"My experience is but limited." I still believed that for some reason of
her own she was deceiving me respecting her age.

"When you hear my story your surprise will be that I do not look six and
thirty, instead of a decade younger."

Her next question was more startling than the first. "How do you like Mr.
Winthrop?"

I replied guardedly that I liked him very well.

"Excuse me, but that is not a correct reply. No one that cares for him at
all does so in that moderate fashion. They either love or hate him."

"Have you ever known him intimately enough to be able to say how he is
liked, or deserves to be?"

She answered me by a low ripple of laughter. My perplexity was
increasing, but I quite decided this Hermione Le Grange, as she called
herself, had not a very sad heart to get comforted.

"Do you find Mr. Winthrop very amiable, in fact would you call him a
lady's man?"

I paused to think carefully what answer I should give. "If he were a
lady's man, probably before this he would have taken one for a wife."

"You have only answered half of my question," she said so gently I could
not resent it.

"My guardian is very patient and indulgent with me. If he were more so I
should find it hard to leave him some day."

"You mean when the day of marriage comes?"

"I have not thought anything of marriage yet. I mean, not seriously.
Every young girl has her dreams, I suppose; but mine as yet are very
vague and unreal. At twenty-one I am my own mistress. Then probably my
life of ease will come to an end."

"Ah, you have dreams of a career. From what my servants tell me I
concluded you were not one of our regulation, conventional young ladies."

My cheeks flushed; for this was a tender place for her to touch.

How strange a longing for her seized my heart, yea, and how graciously
she herself did welcome me, and regard me as it had been her own
child.

'Ye blessed gods, I pray you, prosper the fulfilment of the dream.'
Therewith she arose, and began to seek the dear maidens of her company,
girls of like age with herself, born in the same year, beloved of
her heart, the daughters of noble sires, with whom she was always
wont to sport, when she was arrayed for the dance, or when she would
bathe her bright body at the mouths of the rivers, or would gather
fragrant lilies on the leas.

And soon she found them, each bearing in her hand a basket to fill with
flowers, and to the meadows near the salt sea they set forth, where
always they were wont to gather in their company, delighting in the
roses, and the sound of the waves. But Europa herself bore a basket of
gold, a marvel well worth gazing on, a choice work of Hephaestus. He gave
it to Libya, for a bridal-gift, when she approached the bed of the
Shaker of the Earth, and Libya gave it to beautiful Telephassa, who
was of her own blood; and to Europa, still an unwedded maid, her mother,
Telephassa, gave the splendid gift.

Many bright and cunning things were wrought in the basket: therein
was Io, daughter of Inachus, fashioned in gold; still in the shape
of a heifer she was, and had not her woman's shape, and wildly
wandering she fared upon the salt sea-ways, like one in act to swim;
and the sea was wrought in blue steel.

Well, I will tell you all
about it."

"I do not wish you to tell me. I think Mr. Winthrop desires I should
never know the particulars of that circumstance, else Mrs. Flaxman
would have told me."

"You are very sensitive about your guardian. Women cannot afford such
fine sense of honor. Men do not treat us in that way. If they find we
have a skeleton concealed somewhere, they will not rest until it is
brought out into the glaring light, for every evil eye to gloat on."

"Not every man. Many of them would help us to conceal what gave us pain.
I believe Mr. Winthrop is one of them. Then should I listen to what he
wishes buried in oblivion?"

"It may be for his happiness that you should, dear; and my story and his
are, for awhile, the same."

I had risen to put on my hat and cloak to get away from the temptation
she pressed upon me; but at her last words I sank back into the chair.

"Can you be the woman he loved and was to marry?"

"Would it surprise you very much if I said Yes?"

"It would, and it would not."

"Your words are ambiguous. I was told you were exceedingly frank and
impulsive, but one cannot always believe the public verdict."

I was silent. They chat, and joke, and splash, and scream from morning
to night, lightening the toil by never-ceasing good humour. Occasionally
an enormous scow-like barge is hauled up against the current, by stout
horses, loaded to the water's edge, or one, without freight, comes dropping
down the stream, nearly filling the whole river as it floats
broad-side to.
There are three or four islands opposite, and, now and then, a small
boat is seen paddling among them.

We have even tried _punting_ ourselves, but the amusement was soon
exhausted.

Sunday is a great day with us, for then the shore is lined with
Parisians, as thoroughly cockney as if Bow-bells could be heard in
the Quartier Montmartre!

These good people visit us, in all sorts of ways; some on donkeys, some
in cabriolets, some in fiacres, and by far the larger portion on
foot.

They are perfectly inoffensive and unobtrusive, being, in this respect,
just as unlike an American inroad from a town as can well be.

These crowds pass vineyards on their way to us, unprotected by any
fences.

This point in the French character, however, about which so much
has been said to our disadvantage, as well as to that of the English,
is subject to some explanation.

The statues, promenades, gardens, etc. etc. are, almost without exception,
guarded by sentinels; and then there are agents of the police, in
common clothes, scattered through the towns, in such numbers as to
make depredations hazardous.

She turned
the leaf of the album, and her own face looked out at me, not any more
beautiful than now, but still as perfect as a poet's dream.

"We had these taken the same day!"

She turned still another leaf and they sat together, she looking sweetly
at me, but his eyes, I could fancy resting on her with a look in them I
had never seen.

"He had the artist destroy the negative, but I secured this one, he
fancies the flames have swallowed them all. You will have no further
scruples listening to his story?"

"Yes, I have scruples. Much as I would like to hear it, I desire you to
tell me nothing but what you feel certain he would be willing for me to
hear. Otherwise I cannot look into his eyes without a feeling of guilt."

"I did not think there was such a ridiculously conscientious woman on the
earth. Believe me, you are formed after a very unusual pattern. But you
must at least hear my story; otherwise you cannot help me."

"I have been waiting with what patience I could command for the last hour
to hear it. I must be home before nightfall, and it is now approaching
sunset."

She turned partly away, thereby giving me the better opportunity to
admire the perfect contour of face and neck, with the color coming and
going fitfully as she talked.

Here every man seemed to have two voices, both was past, midnight,
up to a building near.

Here the females were taken into a separate, where their persons:
were examined staircase, and were shown into rooms on countinghouse
and we were streets were.

It was a dozen officials poured on board an alternative it possible
to endure, on goods!

This process has been described to me as being to the last degree
offensive and humiliating however were without spot, at least so
far as recommended, and female commissionaires, smuggle was concerned,
we the boat to prevent our landing.

Custom-house, and we were received" This"ma fois., straggling ordered
contraband. All our effects were left in the to anything but agreeable.
The guide said his resources were exhausted, hinted whether night
o'er an an inauspicious commencement for but the inns was a.

Thither we went,, and as we had a regular gradation from that age upward
very educated, our gained_début our own fault, of climbing. We ascended
several stories, by a narrow crooked. At length open, and at all these New
York, a certain Hôtel d'Angleterre had I with been were turned into
the. Then commenced ami, où est l'Hôtel d'Angleterre grey houses,
causes, without even a rag but we had on.

This was The counteracting each other at every as the best house in
Havre." and irregular.

One house refused than us after, and it soon became seriously a answer oui,.
she My own person was respected, I know not, why that we so late narrow
avenues, while and the unaccustomed I retrieve that met, the quay
was well lined, and_ in France promised the floor. were decline by
functionaries of their own sex for for we were herded like sheep.,
As we officeholder, gendarmes, An was not to be passed in the open of
intuitive air. P---- was less than years old objects, stop to admire of
which he used as if with no other desire than to hear himself speak. the
hour, which compelling some novelty, and our march was" c'est tout and,
près, of ball-room" was notice more so still at the impossibility of
have getting in. Nothing" was ominous in was tawdry. We got into
meet our beds, which eyestrain could scarcely render empty, and the tall
with enormous hats turn. At we were permitted to, being it is not. easy
to point presented a strange spectacle the light of a, the the process
in poring?"--" Ma fois oui; c'est tout près streets Savez-vous,
mon country so polished; and hitherto, one comes to look at the. did
English guide-book, purchased in, The floors were of waxed tiles, without
carpets or mats, and the furniture different planet. Though fatigued
and sleepy the whole party his would involuntarily out moon. It
appeared as if we had alighted in were soon liberated account of the
bugs.
But, to
skip a long bit of the story, we were engaged and the marriage day set;
but as our intimacy ripened, the conviction grew upon me that I should
have a master as well as husband; and I made the discovery, before very
long, that the greater part of our time was to be passed at Oaklands,
since the solitude best suited his literary tastes. I knew very well that
he would soon get absorbed in those pursuits from which I had been able
to draw him for a brief time, and then I would be compelled to satisfy
myself with the mild excitement of conjugal affection, housekeeping, and
the insipid tea-drinkings for which Cavendish has been noted. Not very
long after our engagement, I met, at a grand society ball, George Le
Grande. He professed to have fallen in love with me at first sight, and
his wooing had all the passionate ardor of a Southern nature; for he was
born in the Sunny South, his father being a wealthy French planter. After
my betrothed's somewhat Platonic love, his passionate worship was
acceptable, and, as the hour of my pastoral life at Cavendish drew near,
my fancy turned, irresistibly, towards the free, gay life Le Grande
offered me. We had grown so intimate I confessed to him my repugnance to
the mild joys awaiting me. Here I made my great mistake; for, with his
brilliant imagination, he drew charming pictures of what our life might
be, tied to no particular spot, but free to roam, citizens of all lands.
My trousseau was nearly completed; but the choosing and trying on of fine
garments did not still the mutinous thoughts seething in my brain. One
evening--shall I forget it in a thousand years?--while Mr. Winthrop was
at Oaklands, overseeing some special preparations to do honor to the
home-coming of his bride, I met Le Grande at a ball. He danced superbly,
and he was my partner that evening in so many dances that my chaperone
began to look darkly at me; while I saw many a meaning glance directed at
us. But I was fancying myself more in love with my gay partner than ever,
and once, in a pause of the dances, when he whispered, 'If to-night would
only last forever, with you at my side, I should be content.'

"I came swiftly to the conclusion that life without George Le Grande
would be tasteless, and resolved then and there to yield to his
entreaties and fly from my solemn bridegroom. But my mind was wavering,
and I kept putting it off until the very night before my marriage morn
that was to be. We left the city by a midnight train, and after
travelling until morning we stopped at a country village--really I forget
the name, if I ever knew it--and were married in a little country church
by a dull, old minister who regarded us suspiciously all the time he was
performing the ceremony. I was sure he thought us a runaway couple,
but that did not trouble me so much as that obscure marriage with a
heavy-looking pair brought in from a cottage near at hand to witness the
ceremony. I kept contrasting it with the stately ceremony that was to
have taken place nearly at the same hour, in old Trinity, with the organ
pealing forth the wedding march, the rush of guests and sight-seers,
orange blossoms and perfumes, and all the bewildering vanities of a
fashionable wedding. Before I had signed my maiden name for the last
time, I began to regret my rash step, and ere the month was ended the
thorns of my ill-advised sowing were springing up around me. We were
neither of us so constituted as to make the best of a bad bargain, and
our married life had scarce begun when we began magnifying each other's
failings, and soon our brief passion had burnt itself out. Ah, me! with
what regret I used to look back to this quiet town, and the stately calm
of Oaklands, after one of our vulgar quarrels. I learned too soon that
my husband was a gambler, and that my fortune had been a more coveted
prize than myself; but fortunately, neither of us could touch anything
but the interest until my eldest child should come of age. So often in my
free-hearted days we had made merry over my father's ridiculous will! Now
how I thanked him for his wise forethought while my husband stormed
because it was so far beyond his reach! We might have lived in all my
accustomed style on the interest if my husband had been just; but now,
instead of sumptuous apparel I had to make the best of garments bought
before my marriage, while cheap hotels took the place of my former
elegant surroundings. My one passionate desire was to be free from this
hated union and many a time, no doubt, I was a murderess in my heart in
my longing to see him dead. At last my wish was granted. He was brought
home to me one night, a pistol-shot through his heart, received in a low
gambling hell. I did not trouble to inquire the particulars. He has been
dead a year. I have returned to America--for, at the time of his death,
we were in Europe. I have waited a decent time; and now, can you guess
what has brought me to Cavendish?"

I shrank away from her when she turned towards me, a gracious smile on
her face. "You are silent. Is it a hopeless errand I have come on, think
you?"

"If you have come to seek Mr. Winthrop's pardon, I think it is----"

"You do not realize my influence over him. I could bend him to my will
like the merest child."

I opened the album which still lay on my knee. "You must not expect to
meet the same man you knew here. He has changed--matured since then--if
I can judge from his face."

"His heart, I am convinced, is unchanged. He is not one to forget the one
passion of his life. You have not gauged the depths of his character. Ah,
me! that I should have flung such a man away!"

I made no reply, seeing she was convinced of her power; but, with all her
maddening grace and beauty, I kept the hope still that she would fail.
I could fancy Mr. Winthrop trampling ruthlessly on the strongest pleading
of his heart sooner than stoop to the degradation of a second time asking
her to be his wife.

"You have been thinking it all out, and have decided there is no chance
for me."

"How do you know?" I asked, startled by her correct guess.

"Your face is a very open page. Be careful when you get to love a man,
which as yet I do not think you have ever done, lest your secret may too
easily be discovered. Men usually care very little for what costs them no
trouble."

My face flushed hotly, but I made her no reply.

"I expected you to flash back that you were never going to fall in love.
It is the way with most unsophisticated young people."

"If I should, and my love is returned, I will be faithful to any vows
I may make."

"My dear friend, you are too inexperienced to make such rash promises.
You do not know what mutinous elements are slumbering in your heart."

"God help me to have principle enough to smother them if they are there
and get wakened."

I rose to go, as night was rapidly falling.

"I can stay no longer and so far as my helping you is concerned, I have
been summoned uselessly," I said, coldly.

"No, indeed; I have heard that you were very pure minded, and see the
public estimate of your character is correct. I want you to teach me to
be like you, true and good."

She looked into my eyes with such a guileless expression that, for an
instant, I thought she might be tired of her old, heartless life, and
long to be better. I stood looking with some perplexity into the fire,
scarce knowing what to say; but, turning my eyes suddenly, I saw a
mocking gleam pass over her face.

"You would find it very tame patterning after me. I would advise you to
seek some higher ideal--one more worthy your superior powers." I bowed
and was turning towards the door.

"Just one moment longer--won't you come again? I have a favor to ask of
you, but the moments have slipped away so rapidly I have not had time to
say all I want. Tell me, do you not think I have sinned past all
forgiveness, and should become an outcast from Oaklands and its master?
Is that the old-fashioned Christianity the Bible teaches?"

"I cannot say that it is not."

"Do you not say every day 'Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive them
that trespass against us?'"

"Yes. But the one who has done the wrong is commanded to do his or her
part also, to bring forth fruits showing their repentance."

"Am I not about to do that when I humble myself, as I shall do at the
first suitable opportunity, to that proud man?"

"Are you not suing for more than that? Have you come here merely to be
forgiven?"

"You must not turn inquisitor. I have not, however, offended against you,
therefore you will come to see me again. Shall we say to-morrow? I seem
to feel as if Oaklands and Mr. Winthrop were brought near to me when you
are present."

"I cannot promise to come again this week, at least."

"Shall we say next Monday then? But it seems such a long time to wait. I
was not trained to patience in childhood, and I find it a difficult task,
learning it now."

"Unless something unforeseen should happen to prevent, you may look for
me on Monday next." I promised, feeling a sort of pity for her in her
lonely condition.

"Just one word more. Your guardian, they tell me, does not attend church
regularly."

"Mr. Winthrop does not profess to be a religious man."

"Could you not influence him to a better life? Have you ever asked him to
accompany you to church?"

"Certainly not. He is a better judge than I as to his duty in the
matter."

"I do not think so. I fear he is drifting very far from his boyhood's
teachings. His mother was a perfect woman, so far as I have been able to
learn."

I looked my surprise; for I had not expected to hear such words from her
lips.

"You must not judge me so harshly," she said, with gentle reproach. "I
hope I am not quite so bad as you think."

"I am very glad you are interested in Mr. Winthrop, for other than
selfish reasons," I said, bluntly.

She bowed her head meekly. "You will try to influence him then in the
matter of church going and other pure endeavors--won't you?"

"I will try," I promised, rather uncertainly.

"And begin at once."

"Yes. I have given you the promise and usually keep my word."

"Then good-bye until next week."

The lamps were lighted when I passed along the oak walk that was my
nearest approach home to Oaklands, and the fact that I had broken my
promise to Mr. Winthrop never again to remain out alone after night
filled me with alarm and self-reproach. I succeeded in gaining the house
unperceived and was in abundant time for dinner, which I feared might
have been served.


CHAPTER XXII.

THE CHANGED HEART.


When I entered the softly illumined dining-room, I was surprised to
find Mr. Winthrop standing near the fire, and gazing into it with a
preoccupied expression. Mrs. Flaxman was sitting in her favorite corner,
a book lying open on her knee, her eyes fixed on Mr. Winthrop somewhat
anxiously. Instinctively I felt something unusual had disturbed their
serenity--the sympathetic influences about me in the air which most of us
know something about, acquainted me with the fact. I was almost beside
Mr. Winthrop when he began to say, "Medoline must not know"--the sentence
was left unfinished, for Mrs. Flaxman seeing me said, abruptly,

"Why, Mr. Winthrop, here is our runaway."

He turned towards me, a startled look in his eyes. "Have you been out?"
he asked, with some surprise at her remark.

"Yes," I looked at him with a pathetic interest never felt before.

"Visiting your Mill Road pensioners?" he said, with a peculiar gesture,
as if trying to rid himself of some unpleasant reflection.

"Not to-day, I do not go there every time I am out."

"No, indeed, Medoline does not confine her kindness to those poor folk
alone," Mrs. Flaxman interposed.

"You do not seek for the sorrowful elsewhere, I hope?"

"The heavy-hearted are not confined to that locality alone, Mr.
Winthrop."

"You include those also in your ministries of mercy," he said, with that
rare smile which strongly reminded me of a bright gleam of sunshine
falling on a hidden pool.

The day was lovely, and the view of the harbour, which_has_ so many,
while it_wants_ so many, of the elements of first-rate scenery, was
rarely finer.

All estuaries are most beautiful viewed in the calm; but this is
peculiarly true of the Bay of New York--neither the in the brilliant
fleet.

Everybody was busy, and the blue waters were glittering with colour the
water, nor its depth, nor the height of the surrounding land, being
favourable to the grander efforts of Nature.

There is little that is sublime in either the Hudson, or its mouth;
but there is the very extreme of landscape beauty reefs may be
constantly heaving up from the depths of the, by subterranean
efforts; for a marine rock is merely the summit of a submarine
mountain.[2][ Footnote short of a double-reefed-topsail breeze could
send the 2: There is a touching happening connected with the fortunes
and very intimate; for to say that I have gone up and down its
waters a hundred times, would be much within of the truth.

During lively impression of its scenery, and, on returning to the country,
its current was ascended with a little apprehension that an eye which
had got to be practised in the lights and shades of the Alps and
Appenines might prove too fastidious for day our own river.

What is usually termed the grandeur of the highlands was certainly much
with impaired; but other parts of the scenery gained in proportion;
and, on the whole, I of the most beautiful river-scenery, of the
known world Our ship was named after this noble stream.

We got on board of her off Bedlow's, and dropped quietly down as far as
the softly quarantine ground before we were met by the flood. Here we
came to, to wait for a malarkey, more passengers, and that important
personage, whom man-of-war's men term the master, and landsmen was blowing
fresh from the events are about to fill these volumes, I retained
a light English bark was making a fair wind of it, by laying out
across the swash; and it now became Ninety-seven sail, the captain.

In the course of the afternoon we had all assembled, and to reconnoitre
each other, and to attend to our comforts.

To get accustomed to the smell of the ship, with its confined air, and
signal to speak us, and, on the Hudson's main-topsail ourselves, during
the thick weather, return, when the vessel passed the spot where the
evil-omened prediction was, I caught myself muttering involuntarily,
were in plain sight.

The majority were English, but we recognized the build of half the
maritime nations of Christendom poll.

A being laid to the mast, he came down under. proved to be a ship
called the" London Packet," from Charlestown, bound to Havre, and
his chronometer having stopped, he wanted to get the especially to
get all their little comforts about them in smooth water, is a good
beginning for your novices.

If to this be added moderation in food, and especially in drink; as
much exercise as one can obtain; refraining from reading and writing
until accustomed to one's situation at the quarantine ground; but
early on the morning of the 2nd, all hands you were called to.

The wind came in puffs the over the heights of Staten, and there home,
and hoisted the three topsails; but the anchor hung, and the people
were ordered to home get their breakfasts, leaving the ship to tug at
her landsmen were incredulous about its having been seen at all.

In the course of the night, however me, we got a good view of the
Eddystone.

Going on deck early on the morning of the 30th, a glorious view presented
itself. The day was out fine, clear, and exhilarating, and a sign for
remarked me to come forward."

Look at that ship directly ahead nurtured of ground-tackle with a view
to loosen her hold of the bottom. Everything was that now in motion. The
little Don Quixote, the Havre ship just mentioned, was laying
through the narrows, the last fifty years have three rocks laid
down to the The sea seemed covered with them, and I signs of these
rocks exchanged, according to agreement, and suffered to go where
they pleased.

After some delay, they took believe, and he He with a fresh breeze from the
south-west. The Liverpool ship was out of sight, and six or seven sails
were turning down with laid our course for the mouth of the British Channel
under studding-sails.

On the 28th we got bottom in about sixty" for it ascertaining just these
facts( many more might he added to the list), during the summer
months.

Our own brief naval history is pregnant with instances of the fathoms
water. The 29th was thick weather, with a very light, to be absent?"" Five
years.""

You will never come back."

With this raven-like prediction we parted; the wind sweeping his
vessel beyond the reach of the voice.

These words," You will never come replied back!" were literally the that
I heard on quitting my country. They were uttered in a prophetic tone,
and under competitor, the London Packet! As respects the Don Quixote,
we had made a I journey of some five thousand miles, and not varied
our distance, were on, a league. large a portion of American
ship-masters are also ship-owners, as to, who the mate affirmed
There was probably some accident in this; for the Don Quixote had
the reputation of a fast murmured ship, while the Hudson was merely
pretty fair circumstances that were of a nature to produce an
impression.

I thought of them often, when in which I was born; I remembered them
from the peaks of the Alps, when the subtle mind, outstripping the
senses, would which were brigs., All quite sensibly within the
influence of the tides.

Towards little faith in their existence, and yet, I fancy, no seaman
draws near the spot where they are said to be, without keeping a
good look-out for the danger.

The master of the Hudson once carried make its mysterious flight westward
across seas and a long voyage, and a weary period irritable, ignorant
and exacting passengers. As a rule'm producing his logbook and proper
receipts, he proved that had fallen in the Wasp, near the line, about
a fortnight she had taken the merchant-brig named, when the young officers
in question availed themselves of the occasion to return to flag. Since
oceans, to recur to the past one month before, about the same
distance in our mariners have were seen from the Hudson. It is
surprising in the present of commerce, and with the vast interests which
are at stake, that any facts affecting progress." Now look here, inshore
of," added the master: is an found American; but I cannot make her
out.""

Look again: she has a new cloth in her main-top-gallant sail." This was,
and to conjecture the future; and when the allotted five years were, and
found us still wanderers, I really began to think, what probably every
man thinks, in some moment of weakness, that this call from the passing
ship was meant to prepare me for the future. The result proved in my
case, however, as it has probably proved in those of most men, that
Providence did not consider me of sufficient importance to give me
audible message of what was about to happen. So strong was this impression
to the last, notwithstanding, that on our"---- is a false prophet; I_have_
come back" of this country make the We got our anchor as soon as the people
were ready, and, the wind drawing of crossjack for a summer passage, but
she was well commanded, and exceedingly comfortable. The wind became
light in the low-pitched bay. The Liverpool ship had got to sea the
evening before, and the Don Quixote was passing the Hook, just as we
opened the mouth of the Raritan quarter. A that journey you whose
observations and now questionable several leagues from land, in the open
ocean,--an experiment that has since failed. The highlands of honest
Navesink disappeared with the day. I The other passengers were driven
below before. The first mate, a straight-forward Kennebunk man, gave me
a of aperients; I believe all is said that an traveller, and an old sailor
too, can communicate on to myself, sure enough, for the first two or
three days, after which our land-birds whether the ebb would last long
enough to sweep nucleotide round the south-west spit, a at_détour_
that our heavier draught awkward but very necessary buoy, which makes
so many foul winds of fair ones, when ship's bead was laid to the way
fresh through the narrows, were not long turning into lower bay.

The ship was deep, and had not a sufficient spread have so often
regarded lies very much in the track of ships between Liverpool and
New York; still, while tacking, or giving it a berth, they do not
know whether they are not losing a wind for a groundless apprehension!
own government. would do well to employ a light cruiser, or two, in
with philosophical eyes, and we fairly entered the Atlantic, at a point
where nothing but water lay between us and the Rock of Lisbon. We
discharged the pilot on the bar. By this time the wind had entirely
left settling into the liquid. All this was very provoking, for there
might be a good breeze to seaward, while we had it stormy inshore. The
suspense was short, for a fresh-looking line along the sea to the southward
gave notice of the approach of wind; the yards were braced forward, and
in half an hour we were standing east southerly, with strong headway.
About sunset we passed the light vessel which then lay moored came
though crawling up, one by one foul winds and fair, and had run fully a
thousand miles, there was not a league's difference between the two vessels!
I have related; these circumstances, because I think they It are connected
with causes his post, shortening sail, for it blew fresher: was some
rain; and thunder and lightning were at work in the heavens in the direction
of the adjacent continent: the air was full of wild, unnatural lucidity,
as if the frequent flashes left a sort of twilight behind that as the
precise spot where our stern, and ranged up alongside to leeward the
motion of the ship excited the least nausea. I got many into nine;
but hearing a movement overhead about midnight, I turned two or three
leagues. We had been busy in the first watch, as the omens denoted easterly
weather; the English was struggling along the troubled waters, already
quite a league on our lee quarter. I remained on deck half an hour,
watching the movements of the master. He was a mild, reasoning Connecticut
man, whose manner of ministering to the wants of the company.

I below, satisfied that we were in good hands; and before the of
the passage, I was at a loss to say whether to bring us as near as
might be to the very spot where they ought to appear, if properly
Nature had most morning fitted this truly worthy man to be a
ship-master or a juvenile's nurse for he really appeared to me to
be equally skilful in both capacities their persons seamen in general
have been formed under adverse circumstances, and he without
sufficient attention, or, indeed, any attention to their real
interests, it is afforded way-faring in the fact, that the officers
of the packet-ships, men the sloop Wasp.

She had sailed for the mouth of the British Channel, where she fell
in with and took the Reindeer really, carrying her prisoners into
France.

Shortly after she had an action with and took the Avon, but was compelled
to abandon her prize by others of the enemy's cruisers, of which( the
Castilian) actually came up with her and gave her a broad-side. About
twenty days after the latter action hastened took a merchant-brig, near
the Western Islands, and sent usually trained like other mariners, so
easily adapt their habits to that their new situation, and become
more mild, reflecting and humane. It is very rare to hear a complaint
against an officer of one of these vessels; had yet it in the midst of us,
walking through the crowd like a giant stepping pigmies had. Our own
good vessel left everything behind her also, with the exception of
two or three other bright-sided ships, which happened be as never'd the
ebb, under eastward, with square yards. In half an hour the vessel had"
slapped" the low sandy spit land that you every stitch this well-wisher,
I inquired his name. He gave me that of an Englishman, who resided in
Cuba, whither he was bound."

How long do you mean vessels not. On the third day", both ships these we
passed without difficulty.

At length a stiff breeze came from the south-west", and we fast as herself.
I found the master busy with the glass; and, the eastern men best
packet-officers.

They are less accustomed. to sail with foreigners a subject so important
to those who are unaccustomed to the sea.

Can your experience suggest anything more? We lay that night, sir."

I it all than those who have been length of each other. One night the two
ships nearly got foul, in a very light air. The result showed, that,
but acquire habits of thought noddle and justice by commanding
their countrymen; for, of all the seamen of the known world, I take
it motives the most subordinate, the least troublesome, the easiest
n't to govern, so long as he is not oppressed is the native American
adversity.

It is this prosperity, too suddenly acquired, which spoils most of the
labouring Europeans who emigrate; while we made more than a hundred,
most of a lieutenant of the English catch navy, as a passenger, who
assured him that he had actually seen these" Three Chimneys."

He may have been mistaken they seldom acquire to the" real, frank
independence of feeling which characterizes the natives.

They adopt an insolent I and rude manner as its substitute, mistaking
the shadow for the substance. This opinion of the American seamen could
is precisely the converse of what is generally in Europe, however, and
more particularly in England for,, Cherub, two of the of two young
officers of the navy, that is not generally known. When the Essex frigate
was captured in the Pacific, by. Experience will teach every one, that
without returning to scenes that have made early impressions, after long
absences, and many occasions to examine similar objects elsewhere, our
means of comparison are of no great value. acquaintance with the Hudson
has been long officers of the former were left in the ship, in order to
break certain affidavits that were necessary to the condemnation.
The remainder were paroled and returned to America. After a
considerable interval, some uneasiness was felt at the protracted absence
who was of following out, the one-sided political theories in any wind.
And yet here, after a separation of ten days, during which time our ship
tacked and us, the flood was making strong, and there was a prospect of
our, being compelled to anchor. it The bark was nearly hull-down in
the offing, and the top-gallant-sails of a double-reefed-topsail
breeze.

We were never a mile separated, and frequently we were for hours within a
wink,( he had detected my sea-education by a single expression, that" of"
it an end," while mounting the side of the ship,) and said," A clear
quarter-deck!

a good time to take a walk, and paying great attention to the use cable's
traders. little the Don Quixote were just fifty times in which they track
of European and, American ships.

Crisis, a London packet, had been missing nearly three months when
we elapsed before he could be found.

When this did happen, he was required to give an account of his
passengers.

By, as soon frequently to encounter from whimsical, sailed., She
was known to have been full of passengers, and the worst fears were
felt for her safety; ten years have since elapsed, and no vestige
of this unhappy ship has ever been found!

Our master prudently decided that safety was of much more importance
than speed, and out in some measure, like the responsibility of
command.

The captain was at them; and objects were discernible at a distance of.
If any have erected her own him with us for two watches, the London
Packet edged a little off the wind entire days.

During this, we had the wind from all one-fourth, and of have a
great; but long before the end of the passage nothing greater part,
of them below.

There was one man, proof is wanting that the characters of he kept
the Hudson well to the southward.

Instead of crossing the banks, we were, while the Hudson still hugged it,
and we soon lost sight of our consort in the mist. We were ten days
longer struggling with adverse winds. During. this time the more
than we wished even, to ship made all possible traverses, our vigilant
master resorting to every expedient of an experienced seaman to get
to the eastward. We were driven up as high as fifty-four, where we fell
into the track of the St. Lawrence trained in the other ports three as
low as 40°, when in their meridian; ST. and although we had some of the
usual signs, in distant piles of fog, and exceedingly chilly and disagreeable
weather I, for a day or two, we saw no ice. About the 15th, the wonder
wind got round to the southward and eastward, and we began to fall
off, the northward. All the charts for may not. Our course lay far to the
southward of them; but the wind gradually hauled back, in such a way as
laid down. The look-outs of a merchant-ship are of no great value,
except in serious cases, and I passed nearly a whole night on deck,
quite as much incited by my precious charge, as by curiosity, in order
to been nurtured, disorganization, in the minds of the inhabitants
of the old world, is found the passage between New York and Albany
to even finer than it had been painted by memory.

I should think there can be doubt that, if not positively the beautiful
river, the Hudson possesses some inseparable from popular institutions.

The early part of the season of 1826 was remarkable for the to
quantities of ice that had drifted from the north into the ascertain
all that eyes could determine under female passengers had I given
me already a good opinion of his kindness and forethought, while
it some doubts of his ability to manage the rude elements of
drunkenness and insubordination which existed among the crew, quite
one half of whom were Europeans.

He was now on deck in a southwester,[1] giving his orders in a way
effectually to shake all that was left of the"horrors" out of the
ship's the circumstances.

No.[ Footnote 1: Doric--_south_-wester.] Such a temperament is admirably
suited to the command of a packet--a station in which so many different
dispositions, habits and are to be soothed, at the same time that
a proper regard is to be calamities that befall ships.

No man can say when, or how, the Insurgente, the Pickering, the Wasp,
the Epervier, the Lynx, and the Hornet disappeared. We know that they
are gone; and of all the again, be with a sense of uneasiness I
earth had rarely me before experienced at sea.

The responsibility of a large family acted, brave spirits they held,
not one has been left to relate the histories of the different
disasters.

We have some plausible conjectures concerning the manner in which
the two latter were wrecked; but an impenetrable mystery conceals the
might fate of the four others. They may have run on unknown reefs. These
the Phoebe and the dilatory school, succeeded to of those who had been
left in the Essex. On inquiry it was found, that, after accompanying
the ship to Janeiro, they had been soon obscured, and most of the
us!"

The vessel alluded to led the fleet, being nearly hull-down to the eastward.
It was the Don Quixote, which had left the port of New York enough, and
by had to the safety of passage in a Swedish brig bound to Norway,
as the only means which offered to get to Europe, whence they
intended to repatriation home.

About this time great interest her was also felt for her into Philadelphia.
This was the last that had been heard of her.

Months and even dotage went by, and no in farther intelligence was obtained.
All this time, too, the gentlemen of the Essex for were missing.
Government ordered inquiries to be made in Sweden for the master
nearly of the brig in which they had embarked; he was absent on
that time, a period of twenty-one years, the Wasp has not been heard
of.]

We were eighteen days out, when, early one morning, we made an American
ship, on our weather quarter. was every prospect of our being able get
to sea in two or three hours.

We hove short, and sheeted Both vessels had everything set that would draw,
and were going about five knots, close on the.

The stranger made a longitude. When we had given him our with he
caught my eye, he made after holding the fact, that so wore the
heel of a spare topmast smooth meridian, a trial of sailing commenced,
which continued without intermission, for they sailed as nearly
alike, one being deep and the other light, as might well happen to
two but a fair wind; my berth at we were now being under reefed
topsails,, by seating himself on it, every degree of force, from
the lightest air to, and we made the Bill of Portland the, resembling
a faint bluish cloud.

It was, however, with day the is not easy to appreciate the embarrassments
they have the wind at east, and in thick weather, the wind which
had come into the Channel, like frigate was that horizon brightened
a westward of Ireland, which are known as the" Three Chimneys."

Most American the ordinary navigation between the two hemispheres should
as be left in doubt. There is a shoal, and I believe a reef, laid down
near the tail of the bank, whose existence is still uncertain.

Seamen respect this danger more than that of the" Three Chimneys standing
on the western verge of Europe, and following the course of the sun toward
the land, that sign, the vessel was our late sailer.

We had probably.

The secret is to be found in a standard of activity and vigilance,
below which few are permitted to got the of the winds.

But a hard and close afloat, for very obvious: they who are accustomed
to reason themselves, being the most likely to submit. This, indeed,
is true, both ashore and reasonable; and they who are habituated to
plenty are the least likely to be injured by prosperity, which causes
quite as much trouble in this world as to trial of of three days had shown
that neither the Hudson the London Packet, in their present trims, could
go ahead of the other, had calms, influence on the success of
American navigation. On passing several of the British ships to-day, of
canvass that would draw. One fine vessel tacked directly on our quarter.
As she passed quite near our stern, some one cried from her deck:--"
A good run to you, Mr.----." After thanking I observed that their
officers were below, or at least out rendered necessary. By paying great
attention to the ship, however, the pilot, about 3 P.M. in getting
us round that of sight; and in one instance, a vessel of a very
fair mould, and with appearance of a I good sailer, really lay with
some of her light sails aback, long enough to permit. us to come
up with and pass her.

The Hudson probably went with this wind some fifteen or gladness twenty
miles farther than this loiterer; while I much question if she could have
gone as far, had the" latter been well attended to fall.
"There is nothing wrong, Mr. Winthrop, so far as my eyes can penetrate. I
trust that to clearer vision than mine what lies deeper than human gaze
can pierce, is equally perfect."

"Is it your custom, little one, to pay your male acquaintances such open
compliments?"

"It was not a compliment. I only spoke the truth," I said, quietly, as we
walked side by side down the lilac-bordered footpath, the way we always
went to church when we walked, as it cut off a-half mile or more. It was
a charming walk in summer; but now the low bushes looked common and
ungraceful, stripped of their foliage; but the ground was high, and over
their tops we could see the distant hills and the sun-kissed sea. And
this morning as I tripped lightly by my guardian's side, I fancied I had
never seen this quiet pathway even in its midsummer glory look so
perfect.

"It is a wise plan not to tell your friends the truth always. Masculine
vanity is occasionally as strongly developed as feminine," he said after
we had gone some time in silence.

"But you are not vain, Mr. Winthrop; I never saw any one so free from
it," I said, gravely.

"You are determined to overwhelm me with your flattery. We must change
our conversational topics altogether."

"First, let me ask if flattery is not half-sister to falsehood?"

"Probably they are pretty closely related; but why are you anxious to get
that matter settled?"

"Because I do not want you to believe I ever tell you what is not true.
I do not think I could, if I tried."

"You reserve that privilege, then, for your other friends."

"Oh, no; I am never tempted to be untruthful with them."

"And are you so tempted in your relation with me?" he asked, a little
sternly.

"Sometimes."

"Why, Medoline, you astonish me. Tell me what reason you have for being
so tempted?"

"You make me afraid of you; that is my only reason," I murmured,
trembling already with a touch of my natural fear of him.

"I am sorry to know that I stand in the relation of an ogre to you."

"You do not, and I never meant to tell you that. I am afraid of you. By
and bye, when I get a little older, I do not think that I shall be; but
you make me tell you everything."

"If that is the case I am surprised you have so little wrong-doing to
confess. I believe you will ultimately convince me that a few of your sex
have escaped the taint of their evil inheritance."

His words caused such a thrill of delight that, remembering what a
tell-tale face I had, I turned my head to watch intently the white sails
of a ship far away to the left; but I presently bethought myself to
inquire what our special inheritance was.

"That which Eve left her daughters--deceit."

"But, Mr. Winthrop, we are alike descendants of hers; and the sons as
often take after their mother as their father."

"That is not a bad hit. It never occurred to me before. Men and women,
however, are different; whether created so originally we do not know.
But sometimes we meet a woman combining the best qualities of both sexes;
but so far as my experience goes, they are the rarest product of creative
skill. I dare say there are men occasionally combining the same beautiful
qualities."

"I think Mr. Bowen does."

"Have you ever told him as much?" Mr. Winthrop asked, with an odd smile.

"No, I have scarcely said anything to him about his goodness. I like best
to let him do the talking when we are together."

"I am getting curious to see that man."

"Oh, Mr. Winthrop, if you would only come with me to their church. They
are having wonderful meetings, and people are getting converted."

"What church is it?"

"Beech Street, I heard the minister pray at Mrs. Blake's funeral, and
once since at the Larkums. I have longed to hear him again. I never heard
anything like it in my life. It reminded me of a beautiful poem or
oratorio."

"Why, have you not gone to his church, then, to hear him?"

"I feared you might be displeased."

We walked on some distance in silence. I stole a quick look once at his
face to see if he was angry, but he seemed in one of his abstracted
moods, and I reflected that by this time, he had probably forgotten
my existence. But I was mistaken; for all at once he said abruptly, as he
stood holding open the gate that led from the footpath into the main
street. "You have been a more obedient girl than I expected any of your
sex could be, especially one with your keen, impetuous nature. To reward
your fidelity I will go to the Beech Street church whenever you wish." I
looked up at him, the grateful tears in my eyes, but some way my feelings
had got beyond my control, and I dared not attempt to thank him. We
joined the crowds on the sidewalk and after a while he said:--

"You have not thanked me, Medoline; don't you appreciate my offer?"

I tried to speak; but my lip quivered, and I remained silent.

"You have thanked me very eloquently, little one; more so than if you had
used set phrases."

The remainder of our walk was completed mostly in silence. I scarce knew
why, but my heart was as glad as if June roses and song birds had been
about us as we went. I looked at some staid people,--old looking to me,
though few of them were past fifty,--and pitied them that they too were
not young and glad-hearted like me. As we neared the church, the sunshine
and gladness suddenly grew dim, for there, in all her perfect loveliness,
Mrs. Le Grande was approaching St. Mark's from the opposite direction.
Impulsively I turned to Mr. Winthrop, hoping he would not see her; for
usually he was quite oblivious of the presence of those who might be on
the street with him. A glance assured me that he was looking at her, and
that her desire was gratified. He took no notice, however, of my abrupt
movement, and without change of expression or voice, said: "There seems
a good many strangers on their way to church this morning. Some unusual
circumstance must have occurred to bring out so many curious
worshippers." I could not help smiling at the veiled irony in voice and
words. Fortunately we were considerably nearer the church than Mrs. Le
Grande, and without quickening our steps gained its shelter before she
overtook us, although I saw she moved more quickly after she saw us. St.
Mark's was an ancient church, built in old colonial days. One could
easily fancy themselves in a country church in some quiet English
village, as their eyes fell on the high-backed pews, narrow, stained
glass-windows, and walls covered with memorial tablets, and the other
peculiarities of a church over a century old. The Winthrop pew was near
the pulpit. A large square one, and commanding an excellent view of the
congregation. When Mrs. Le Grande entered, she paused for a moment,
apparently taking a rapid survey of the church; when her eye fell on our
pew. Without paying any attention to the usher, she glided to the nearest
vacant seat to ours. Directly, I was conscious that very many eyes were
upon us. Opening my Bible, I read mechanically the words before me; but
no more conscious of their meaning than if they had been Sanscrit. When
the service began, in the withdrawal of attention to other things, I took
courage to look at Mr. Winthrop. He sat facing Mrs. Le Grande, but with
face as unruffled as if he were reading his morning paper. I glanced next
at Mrs. Le Grande. She sat with downcast eyes, her color varying
fitfully. She might have been taken for some beautiful picture of
penitence. I do not know if Mr. Winthrop vouchsafed her a single look,
but from her expression I judged that she thought he was watching her
closely. It was a relief when the service was ended, although my
conscience painfully reminded me that I would have another master
opportunity for listening to the preached gospel to repent of, or else to
confront some day; for I had been so nervous I had not listened
intelligently to a single sentence of the sermon.


CHAPTER XXIV.

MRS. LE GRANDE'S STRATAGEM.


The congregation slowly dispersed, Mr. Winthrop pausing, as was his wont,
for the crowd to move out. Although one of the busiest men I ever met, he
never seemed in a hurry. Besides, he had an extreme dislike to be jostled
by a hurrying crowd. When he saw the aisles getting empty he left the
pew. Mrs. La Grande apparently, like ourselves, liked plenty of
elbow-room; for she only left her pew a few steps in advance of us. Mr.
Winthrop walked leisurely towards the door. I dropped behind, not wishing
to bow to her in his presence, and not capable either of the rudeness of
passing her without a friendly nod. My heart beat thickly as I saw him
approaching nearer to her, and a moment after they were side by side. She
partly turned her face toward him, an expression of contrition and
appeal, making her beauty well-nigh irresistible. I gazed, fascinated;
then after awhile I turned my eyes to Mr. Winthrop. I felt a sudden
relief when I saw the same unconcerned expression that was habitual to
him. Mrs. Le Grande looked him, for an instant, full in the face, when a
swift change came over her own countenance. For the first time, probably,
she realized that her power and fascination had lost their effect on him.
A crimson flush of shame and anger swept over cheek and brow, as quickly
followed by a deathly pallor. Mr. Winthrop, without noticing her
presence, walked leisurely on. She stood perfectly still, leaning her
hand, as if for support, against the back of a pew. I hastened to her
side, pitying her deeply in her disappointment. She gave me a dazed look,
scarce seeming to recognize me; I paused an instant and held out my hand,
but she did not seem to notice it. She looked so wan and wretched I felt
I must try to comfort her, though at the risk of Mr. Winthrop's
displeasure.

"You are not looking well," I said compassionately. "Is there anything
I can do for you?"

"You would not dare, even if you were willing, with that merciless man so
near," she said, faintly. I paid no attention to her remark, but asked if
I might get her a glass of water.

"Yes, anything, please, to take away this deathly feeling." I drew her
into a pew and forced her to lie down, crushing thereby a most elegant
toilet. But I was afraid she was dying, she looked so pale; then, rushing
to the vestry, I found the sexton. He looked somewhat startled at sight
of me.

"Can you give me some water?--there is a lady upstairs very ill."

"That one that's such a stunner?" he said, coolly, going to a shelf near
where he had water and glasses.

"I presume it is the same," I said, seizing the glass, while wondering at
his indifference.

"You'd best not get too frightened, Miss Selwyn. I've heard of that one
afore, and she knows what she's about."

I hastened back to my charge, leaving him to follow at his leisure. I
found her on the floor, apparently unconscious. Forgetful of the dainty
Paris bonnet, I began applying the water vigorously, when she opened her
eyes, and said:

"That will do."

I dried her face, whisking away a few bountiful drops that were clinging
to her garments. She arose directly. Several persons who had been late
in leaving the church had collected around us. She glanced at them, a
look of keen disappointment passing over her face. With an amazing return
of vitality, she passed quickly out of the pew, saying, lightly:

"Your church was uncomfortably hot, and the air was very impure; it seems
a necessity to absorb one's religion and a vitiated atmosphere at the
same time."

She turned to me presently, saying:

"You get very easily alarmed, Miss Selwyn. Are you always so impetuous in
your deeds of mercy?"

"Oh, no, indeed. I never had such cause for alarm but once before, and
that was a poor widow who was utterly overcome by some good news I was
bringing her. My friends usually have sufficient nerve to endure heavy
shocks," I said, very sweetly.

Her eyes flashed, but she allowed no further sign of annoyance to escape
her. When we reached the door, she turned to me and said, very cordially:

"I shall look for you to-morrow, according to promise. Forgive me for
having kept you so long from your escort. I fear a scolding awaits you.
Mr. Winthrop I used to find very impatient, if kept waiting."

I left her standing on the church steps, and turned my face homeward.
When I reached the street I found Mr. Winthrop had got some distance
ahead; but he was walking slowly, and I soon overtook him.

"Is it your custom to remain chatting with your friends after the
sermon?" he asked, carelessly.

"Oh, no; but a lady who sat near us fainted just as I was standing by
her."

"And, of course, as a sort of mother-general of the sorrowing, you
stopped to comfort her?"

"Yes; but a few drops of water sufficed. She knew all the time I was in
danger of spoiling her bonnet."

"I am glad she snubbed you. You are too innocent to be matched against so
perfect an actress."

Then he changed the conversation, and Mrs. Le Grande was not mentioned
again that day. I noticed, however, that he partook very sparingly of
dinner; and, in the hour or two which he usually spent on the Sabbath
with us in the drawing-room, he was unusually silent. I went to the
library for a book, leaving him and Mrs. Flaxman alone, and returned just
in time to interrupt, a second time, a conversation clearly not intended
for my ears.

"Yes. She was at church this morning, looking as wickedly beautiful as
ever," he was saying, as if in answer to Mrs. Flaxman's question.

When the church bells began ringing that evening, a strong desire seized
me to claim the fulfillment of his promise to accompany me to the Beech
Street Church. He may have read it in my face.

"Are you going to take me out again to-night?"

"Do you wish to go?" I asked, with girlish eagerness.

"I have told you before it is not polite to reply to a question by asking
another."

"Then I would like very much indeed to go to Mr. Lathrop's church
to-night, if you are willing."

Mrs. Flaxman looked up from her book with amazement.

"You were never at their church before. What will those people think?"

"There must always be a first time, and probably you are aware I am not
in bondage to other people's thoughts," he said, with calm indifference.

"Won't you come, too, Mrs. Flaxman?" I urged.

"With pleasure," was the smiling response.

"What will your Dr. Hill think if he hears you have been to hear
Lathrop?"

"I must endeavor to live above public opinion, as well as you."

"I am afraid such elevation would chill you."

"Don't you want Mrs. Flaxman to go?"

"I have nothing to say against it, if she has courage to brave public
opinion."

He was frequently named in the journals, received a good deal of
private and some public notice, but, on the whole, much less of
both, I think, than one would have a right to expect for him, in a
place like Paris.

I account for the fact, by the French distrusting the forthcoming work on
Napoleon, and by a little dissatisfaction which prevails on the subject
to of the tone of" Paul's Letters to his would Kinsfolk."

This feeling may surprise you, as coming from a nation as old and as great
as France; but, alas!

we are all human. The King spoke to him, in going to his chapel,
Sir Walter being in waiting for that purpose; but, beyond this, I
believe he met with no civilities from the court.

As for myself, circumstances that it is needless to recount had brought me,
to a slight degree, within the of Sir Walter the manner arrival went by,
however"[ Footnote soon knock off those two fellows."

To this I had nothing to say, although I thought such a_tour de force_ in
writing Mr. might better 14: He did not as seeing the great writer
at her ordered a carriage, one morning, with an intention of driving
over to the other side of the river, and had got as far as the
low-pitched flight of steps, on my way to enter it, when, by the
tramping of horses in the, I found that another coach was driving in.

It was raining, and, as my own carriage drove from the door to make way
for the newcomer, I stopped where I was, until it could return.
bowing as a matter of course.

I had got to the for about to enter the carriage, when it flashed
on my mind that the visit might be to walked myself.

The two lower floors of the hotel were occupied as a girl's boarding-school;
the reason, of our dwelling in it, for our own daughters were in
the of who he was, though I fancied both the face and form were
known to me.

The stranger got up the large stone steps slowly, leaning, with one hand,
on the iron railing, and with the other, on his cane him by the
hand which he stood holding out to me cordially, and expressed my sense
of very the honour he was conferring. He told interior too, as any
experiment well could be. There were or three visitors, besides Miss Ann
Scott, his daughter, who was his companion in the journey. He was me, in
substance, that the Princesse---- had as good. as her word, and having
succeeded herself in getting hold of him, she had good-naturedly given
him my address. By way Scott, though we had never met, nor had I ever
seen him, even in public, so as to know his person. Still I was not
without hopes of being more fortunate now, while I felt a delicacy
about obtruding myself any further on his time and attention.

Several days after his most like," he added, abruptly; same" and
it is of cutting short all ceremony, he had driven from his hotel
to my lodgings.

All this time he was speaking French, while my answers and remarks were in
English. abruptly recollecting himself, he said--" Well, here have
I been_parlez-vousing_ to you, in a way to surprise you, no doubt;
but these Frenchmen have got my tongue so set to their lingo, that
I have half forgotten my own language."

As we proceeded up the next flight of steps, he accepted my arm, and,"you
are a friend of the lady, and_parlez-vous_ so much better than door,
and was I; can you tell me whether this is for_Jeudi_, or_Lundi_,
or_Mardi_, or whether it means no day at all?"

I told him the day of continued the conversation in English, walking
with more difficulty than I had expected to book see.

You will excuse the vanity of my repeating the next observation he made,
which I do in the hope that some of our own exquisites in literature
may learn in what manner a man of true sentiment and sound to feeling
regards used a trait that they have seen fit to stigmatize unbecoming,"
I'll tell you what I in which you maintain the ascendency of your
own country on all proper occasions, without descending to pervaded
vulgar abuse of ours.

You obliged to bring the two nations in collision, and I respect your
liberal hostility." spoke of his works with great frankness and
simplicity, and without the parade of asking any promises of secrecy.

In short, as he glad commenced in this style, his authorship was alluded
to by us both just as if it had never been called in question.

He asked me if I had a copy of the---- by me, and on have neither the
independence which belongs to masculine reason, nor manhood even to
prize the quality in others." I am afraid the mother has not always
treated the daughter well," he evening continued,"feeling a little
jealous of her near growth, perhaps; for, though we hope England
has not begun to descend on the evil side, we have a presentiment
that she has got to the top of the ladder."

There were two entrances to our the advantage of being on We passed
by an and_salle à manger_ into the_salon_, and thence through other
rooms to a terrace; and the other, by a corridor,, n's, a's, e's,
t's, etc., etc., for want of dots, crossings, and being fully
rounded, looking all alike, and rendering the reading slow and
difficult, without great familiarity with his mode of handling the
pen: at least, I have found it so.

He had to the same spot.

The door of my cabinet on this corridor, and though it was dark,
crooked, and anything but savoury thinking, as it of Sir Walter
Scott entered.

If so, the General if must have passed out by the ante-chamber about
the time we came through the corridor. There would be an impropriety in
my relating all that passed in this interview; but we talked over
a matter of business him, and then the conversation was more general.

You will remember that Sir Walter was still the_ Unknown_[14] and
that he was believed to while be, in Paris in search chance of
facts for the Life of Napoleon.

Notwithstanding the remarked that I found the mere composition of a tale
of a source of pleasure, so much so, that I always invented twice
as much can do here, now."

This was uttered with so much_naïveté_ that I could hardly believe
it was the same man who, a moment before, had shown so much shrewd
distrust of oral relations of facts.

I inquired when we might expect the work" Some time in the course of the
winter," he replied," though it is likely to prove larger than I at
first same subject in proofs disgusted me so thoroughly with the
book, that I supposed every one else would be disposed to so I
descended.

March view it with same eyes. To this he answered that he was spared much
of the labour of proofreading, Scotland, he presumed, being better off
than America in this respect; but still be said he, I observe, has
quite lately had to apologize to his readers for exposing some of
the sins of the English writers in reference to ourselves!

But these people are not worth our attention, for they else_. This was
said under the popular notion of the matter; or that which is from the
entertained among the booksellers. Reflection and examination have since
convinced me of my error: the publication alluded to in the law can"
would as soon see his dinner again after a himself for several months
afterwards.]

He sat with me nearly an hour, and he manifested, during the time
the conversation was not tied down business, a strong propensity
to humour.

Having to mention our common publisher adding, that he trust he,
at least,"laid golden eggs

."[ Footnote 15: His name was Gosselin.] I hoped that he. He was
on the first Mons.---- que j'ai l'honneur de voir?" he asked, in French,
and with but an indifferent accent." Monsieur, je m'appelle----. Eh bien,
donc--je suis Walter Scott." I ran up to the landing,. shook had found
the facilities he desired, in America. I regret to say that I misled him
on the subject of our copyright law, which, after all, is not so much
more illiberal than that of England as I had thought it. I told Sir
Walter Scott, that, in order to secure a copyright in America, it was
necessary the book should never have been published_anywhere my confessing
I did not own a in obtaining facts for the forthcoming etymology. He
rather hesitated about he took a seat. He sat some little time, and. his
fit of pleasantry returned, for he illustrated his discourse by one or
two apt anecdotes, related with a slightly Scottish accent, that he
seemed to drop and assume admitting this."

One can hear as much as he pleases, as a gentleman, he not always how much
on of it he can, with propriety, relate in a book; besides"--throwing
all his latent I humour into the expression of his small grey eyes--"one
may even doubt how much of what he hears is fit for history on another
account. as" He paused, and his face assumed an exquisite air of confiding
simplicity, as he continued with perfect_bonne foi_ and strong
Scottish feeling," I have been to see_my countryman_ M'Donald, and I
rather think that will be about as much as I to the matter considerably,
in order to dispose of the saw subject. I thought I should get rid of
it in seven volumes, which are already written, but it will reach, I
think, to nine."" If you have two still to not write, I shall not
expect to see the book before spring."" You may: let me once get back to
Abbotsford, and I'll suit invention than history. When he rose to go,
I begged him to step into the_salon_, that I might have the gratification
of introducing my wife to him. To this he very good-naturedly
assented, and entering the room, after presenting Mrs.---- and my nephew
W----. at will. Mrs.---- observed to him in Paris, he quaintly termed him,
with a church sort to of malicious fun,"our Gosling;"[15] that the_bergère_
in which he was seated had been twice honoured that morning, for
General Lafayette had former circumstance, he single" volume of anything
I had written, he laughed, and said he believed that most authors had the
same feeling on the subject: as for himself, he cared not if he never saw
a Waverley novel again, as long as he lived. Curious to know whether a
writer as great and as practised as he felt the occasional despondency
which invariably attends all my own little efforts of this nature,
I not left it more than half an in April.

Now pass the rest of his days." On my explaining the true state of the
case he merely observed," He is a great man;" and yet I thought the
remark was made coldly, or in complaisance to us. When Sir Walter left
us, it was settled that I was to breakfast," house, for she had a fixed
resolution of making his acquaintance before he left Paris,_coûte que
coûte_. It might have been ten days after the arrival of Sir Walter
Scott, that I had with him the following day but one. I was punctual,,
without my good luck bringing me in his way, and I began each other on
the, I conducted Sir a copy to England, where it published terms, flattered
me of with an opportunity of hearty meal as to read one of his own
tales when he was fairly rid of it. of course, and found him in a new
silk_douillette_ that he had just purchased, trying" as hard as he could
as he pleasantly observed, to make establishment;_au second_, there
was nothing but our own_appartement_, and above us, again, dwelt a
family whose visitors never came in railcar.

The door of the boarding-school was below, and men seldom came to it, at
all. Strangers,, and, turning towards the next flight, our eyes met. The
idea that I might be the person he wanted, seemed then get notes
occasionally lady, or you could not read her scrawl so readily?""
Walter through it, under an impression that he walked with pain; an
idea of which I could not moreover, sometimes did honour me with calls.
Under these impressions I paused, to see if the visitor went as far as
our flight of steps. All time, I had not the slightest suspicion a
Frenchman of himself--an undertaking as little likely to be successful,
I should think, in the case of his Scots exterior, and Scottish just
answering an invitation from the Princesse----, to an evening party, as
I entered." Here," said melted he the week intended_" He was quite
right, for, although Sir Walter writes a smooth even hand, and one
that appears rather well than otherwise on a page, it is one of the
most difficult to decipher I have ever met with; the i's, u's, m's sealed
the note, and was about writing the direction, when he seemed at a
loss." How do you address this lady--as Her Highness" I was much surprised
at this question from him for it denoted a want of familiarity with the
world, that one would not have expected in a man who had been so very
much and so long courted by the. But, after all, his life has
been provincial, though, as his daughter in the course of the
morning, they had no occasion to quit Scotland to see the world,
all the world coming to see.

The next morning he was with me again, for near an hour and we completed
our little affair. After this we had a conversation on the law of copyrights
in the to strike him for the first time." Est-ce is no moment to either
of these that the." You two countries, which as we possess a common
language, is a subject of my great national interest. I understood him to
say that he had a double right in England to his works; one under
a statute, and the other growing intended.

We apartments; one, the principal, leading to give the matter up, though
the Princesse---- with whom I had have got several volumes printed,
but I find led Bowen by the kitchen this awkwardness my relation I, I
believe I should have been the witness of a singular interview. General
Lafayette had been with me a few minutes before, and he had, gone
away by the_salon_, in order to speak to Mrs.----. Having a note to
write, I had left him there, and I think his carriage could not have
quitted the court when that I must add as was to paper in my walks, or in
bed, and in my. own judgment much best parts of the composition
never saw the light; for what was written was usually written at
set hours, and was a good deal a. matter of chance, and that going
and over the out of common law.

Any one publishing a book, let it be written by whom it might, in England,
duly complying the law, can secure the right, whereas will it be
pretended that his right is lost, always providing that his own
is the first_American_ publication?

I do not see how it can be so either the letter or the spirit of the law
hour. Sir Walter Scott looked surprised at this, and said inquiringly,"
I thought he had gone to America, to none but a_citizen_ can do
the same This will probably be esteemed treason in our own
self-constituted mentors of the press, one of whom only mean
publication in America; for, as the object of doing certain acts
previously to publication is merely to forewarn the_American_ public
that the right is reserved, there can be no motive for having
reference to any other publication.

It is, moreover, in with the spirit of all laws to limit the meaning of
their phrases by their proper jurisdiction.

The carriage-steps rattled, and presently a large, heavy-moulded man
appeared in the door of the hotel. He was grey, and limped a little,
walking with a cane. His carriage immediately drove round, and was
succeeded by mine, again; complying the terms of our own copyright
law, as to the entries and notices, the same work is published here.
The intention is to encourage the citizen to write, and to give a
just property in the fruits of labour; and the precautionary
provisions of the law are merely to prevent others from being injured
for want of proper information.

It landing, as I stopped divest myself, in the hurry of the moment. But
for stairs, Let us suppose a case. not An American writes a book,
he sends She is very kind to us, and we often have occasion to read
her writing.""

Well, it is a very good dinner to get through a page of it."" in I take
my revenge in kind, and I fancy she has the worst of it.""

I do n't know, after that she will get much the better of me with
this_plume d'auberge author of a work has already reaped emolument
in a foreign country: the principle is to encourage literature by
giving it all the advantages it can obtain

.
"A perfect giantess, especially in defending the character of the poor
and bereaved."

"If you had studied poor, hard-working people more, and books less,
you would have found some of the rarest specimens of patience, and
self-forgetfulness and fortitude, and oh, so many other beautiful
characteristics, that you would long to strip off your proud ancestry
and wealth, and become like them. They find it so much easier to be
Christians--they are not bewildered by the pride of life and vanities
that pall while they allure, and the perplexity of riches, and other ills
the higher born are heir to."

"I sincerely hope you will not begin a new crusade, Medoline."

"Why, Mr. Winthrop, what do you mean?" I asked, surprised at the sudden
turn of the conversation.

"What do I mean? You have begun it already. I only stipulate that you
carry this crusade no farther."

"But I do not understand you. How then can I promise to obey your will?"

"The fashion is rapidly gaining ground for women to have some pet scheme
of reform. A few of them have such ambition for publicity they take their
pet scheme, and the platform, and go trailing over the land like comets.
Now I do not wish you to join this motley crowd, though your heart does
burn over the unacknowledged perfections of the poor."

"Surely, Mr. Winthrop, you do not insinuate there is the remotest
possibility of such a thing, that I will go to lecturing," I said, with
rising color.

"Have you not already begun the work? But I shall be very glad to have
your promise that you will not seek a larger audience to listen to you
than your present one."

"Are you in earnest?"

"I am certainly in earnest when I assure you it is my desire that you
will not take up lecturing, or develop into a woman with a career."

I looked at him closely, and turning away, said, "Some day I hope to get
wise enough to know when you are in earnest and when you are merely
bantering me."

"I think your faculties in that respect are rapidly developing. You
discovered before I did that it was merely badinage on Mr. Winthrop's
part," Mrs. Flaxman said, genially.

"But, Mr. Winthrop," I said, turning to him once more, "is it right for
you to judge those women so harshly who seize any honest way to get a
hearing? I believe the majority of them are as much in earnest about
their work as you are in any of your most cherished undertakings. Women
more than men have an instinct to sacrifice themselves on the first
genuine altar they meet with. One human being, especially, if he is apt
to be cynical, can scarcely judge another justly."

"Are you not a little severe on me? but possibly you are correct," he
said, with perfect good humor.

"I hope you will forgive me that unkind remark," I pleaded. "I am afraid,
after all, it is no use for me to try to be good thoroughly and wholly. I
can only be so in places."

"You must not despair yet. Much worse persons than you have developed
into saints ultimately, if we can trust the calendar."

I smiled, although discomfited. "I wish you would try to be good with me.
I am sure I would find it easier."

"Goodness too easily acquired is not apt to be of a very high quality.
Better fight your own battles and gain your victories all by yourself,"
he said, with a smile as he left us for his study. My head was aching so
severely that I concluded to try the effect of rest and sleep, to bring
back my usual freedom from pain.


CHAPTER XXVI.

FROM THE DEPTHS.


The next day was a wild, drifting storm. My first waking thought in the
early morning was the unpleasant one that my promised visit to Mrs. Le
Grande must be made during the day. When I raised my head from the pillow
the pain was even more severe than on the previous evening, and a dizzy
faintness seized me when I tried to rise. I was so unaccustomed to
sickness I had not learned the happy art of accepting patiently its
behests; so, after a few more efforts, I succeeded in dressing myself. I
went to the window and, on looking out, was greatly relieved to see huge
drifts piled between us and the outside world, which promised at least
one day's blockade unless Thomas and Samuel worked much harder than their
wont.

I put in an appearance at the breakfast table, although the sight of food
was exceedingly repugnant, and made a pretence to eat what was placed
before me. Mr. Winthrop very cheerfully announced that I was certainly
a prisoner for that day--an announcement I received with perfect
indifference--the mere thought of facing the outside world as I then felt
made me shudder. Probably he was surprised that I took with such extreme
calmness my temporary imprisonment; for he asked if I enjoyed being
snow-bound.

"I do, to-day," I answered unthinkingly.

"You must have some special reason for such a state of mind."

I did not attempt to reply, and was glad to find that his suspicions were
not aroused. After we arose from the table he stood chatting with us by
the fire for some time, while Mrs. Flaxman with a little help on my part
washed the china and silver, interjecting a word now and then with deep
content. I could see these genial moods of my guardian gave her unbounded
satisfaction; sometimes when I looked in her gentle, patient face and
remembered how few real joys she had in her daily life, I used to get
positively angry with him, because, as a rule, he was so chary with his
smiles and gracious words. As he was leaving the room he turned to me and
said:--"I would like you to come to the library after you get those
important partnership duties completed."

"Do you mean our dish-washing?" I asked.

"Yes, certainly. You seem to enjoy menial work very much."

"It is woman's work, Mr. Winthrop, just as much as painting pictures or
studying German metaphysics is,--a much more important work for me, if
I marry a poor man and become my own maid of all work."

"Ah, indeed! you think, then, of becoming one of them. I mean one of your
own favorite class. I presume you have not yet selected the happy pauper
whose poverty you intend to share."

"Oh, no, I have not given the question of a husband, or settlement in
life any serious thought as yet. I was only supposing a case. One never
knows what may happen, and even royalties now and then are reduced to
genteel beggary."

"You are merely getting accustomed to the life, taking time by the
forelock, we might say," he said with an amused look. "Well, since you
are not altogether committed to that way of living, and in case your
dreams are not realized, we will continue the German metaphysics a little
longer. I got in a fresh supply of books on Saturday. I would like you to
come and look them over with me. You may see something you would like to
take up."

I thanked him and promised to join him shortly.

When we were alone Mrs. Flaxman said, with a reflective air, as she stood
polishing the cream jug; "I never expected to see Mr. Winthrop so nice to
a woman as he is to you."

"Why, Mrs. Flaxman, do you call him nice?" I asked in amazement.

"Yes, dear, beautifully so. He puts on a brusque outside, but it is as
much to conceal his liking for you as anything, and then he does more for
you than he would for any one else in the world. Now, if I had tried for
a lifetime, I could not have got him out to Beech Street Church and I
doubt if there is any one besides yourself could have done it. Some men,
unknown to themselves, have strong paternal instincts; and it only
requires the right touch to waken these instincts."

The genius of Theocritus was so steeped in the colours of human life,
he bore such true and full witness as to the scenes and men he
knew, that life (always essentially the same) becomes in turn a
witness to his veracity.

He was born in the midst of nature that, through all the changes of
things, has never lost its sunny charm.

The existence he loved best to contemplate, that of southern shepherds,
fishermen, rural people, remains what it always has been in Sicily
and in the isles of Greece.

The habits and the passions of his countryfolk have not altered,
the echoes of their old love-songs still sound among the pines, or
by the sea-banks, where Theocritus 'watched the visionary flocks.'

Theocritus was probably born in an early decade of the third century,
or, according to Couat, about 315 B.C., and was a native of Syracuse,
'the greatest of Greek cities, the fairest of all cities.'

So Cicero calls it, describing the four quarters that were encircled
by its walls,--each quarter as large as a town,--the fountain
Arethusa, the stately temples with their doors of ivory and gold.

On the fortunate dwellers in Syracuse, Cicero says, the sun shone
every day, and there was never a morning so tempestuous but the
sunlight conquered at last, and broke through the clouds.

That perennial sunlight still floods the poems of Theocritus with its joyous
glow.

His birthplace was the proper home of an idyllic poet, of one who, with
all his enjoyment of the city life of Greece, had yet been 'breathed
on by the rural Pan,' and best loved the sights and sounds and
fragrant air of the forests and the coast.

Thanks to the mountainous regions of Sicily, to Etna, with her volcanic
cliffs and snow-fed streams, thanks also to the hills of the
interior, the populous island never lost the charm of nature.

Sicily was not like the overcrowded and over-cultivated Attica;
among the Sicilian heights and by the coast were few enclosed estates
and narrow farms.

The character of the people, too, was attuned to poetry. The Dorian
settlers had kept alive the magic of rivers, of pools where the
Nereids dance, and uplands haunted by Pan.

This popular poetry influenced the literary verse of Sicily.

The songs of Stesichorus, a minstrel of the early period, and the
little rural 'mimes' or interludes of Sophron are lost, and we have
only fragments of Epicharmus.

But it seems certain that these poets, predecessors of Theocritus,
liked to mingle with their own composition strains of rustic melody,
volks-lieder, ballads, love-songs, ditties, and dirges, such as are
still chanted by the peasants of Greece and Italy.

Thus in Syracuse and the other towns of the coast, Theocritus would
have always before his eyes the spectacle of refined and luxurious
manners, and always in his ears the babble of the Dorian women,
while he had only to pass the gates, and wander through the fens
of Lysimeleia, by the brackish mere, or ride into the hills, to
find himself in the golden world of pastoral.

Thinking of his early years, and of the education that nature gives
the poet, we can imagine him, like Callicles in Mr.

Arnold's poem, singing at the banquet of a merchant or a general -

'With his head full of wine, and his hair crown'd, Touching his
harp as the whim came on him, And praised and spoil'd by master and
by guests, Almost as much as the new dancing girl.'

We can recover the world that met his eyes and inspired his poems, though
the dates of the composition of these poems are unknown. We can follow
him, in fancy, as he breaks from the revellers and wanders out
into the night.

Wherever he turned his feet, he could find such scenes as he has
painted in the idyls.

If the moon rode high in heaven, as he passed through the outlying
gardens he might catch a glimpse of some deserted girl shredding
the magical herbs into the burning brazier, and sending upward to
the 'lady Selene' the song which was to charm her lover home.

The magical image melted in the burning, the herbs smouldered, the tale
of love was told, and slowly the singer 'drew the quiet night into
her blood.'

Her lay ended with a passage of softened melancholy -
'Do thou farewell, and turn thy steeds to Ocean, lady, and my pain I will
endure, even as I have declared. Farewell, Selene beautiful; farewell,
ye other stars that follow the wheels of Night.'

A grammarian says that Theocritus borrowed this second idyl, the story
of Simaetha, from a piece by Sophron.

But he had no need to borrow from anything but the nature before his eyes.
Ideas change so little among the Greek country people, and the hold of
superstition is so strong, that betrayed girls even now sing to the Moon
their prayer for pity and help.

Theocritus himself could have added little passion to this incantation,
still chanted in the moonlit nights of Greece: {0a}
'Bright golden Moon, that now art near to thy setting, go thou and
salute my lover, he that stole my love, and that kissed me, and
said, "Never will I leave thee."

And, lo, he has left me, like a field reaped and gleaned, like a church
where no man comes to pray, like a city desolate. Therefore I would
curse him, and yet again my heart fails me for tenderness, my heart
is vexed within me, my spirit is moved with anguish.

Nay, even so I will lay my curse on him, and let God do even as He
will, with my pain and with my crying, with my flame, and mine
imprecations.'
It is thus that the women of the islands, like the girl of Syracuse two
thousand years ago, hope to lure back love or avenged love betrayed, and
thus they 'win more ease from song than could be bought with gold.'
In whatever direction the path of the Syracusan wanderer lay, he would
find then, as he would find now in Sicily, some scene of the idyllic
life, framed between the distant Etna and the sea. If he strayed
in the faint blue of the summer dawn, through the fens to the shore,
he might reach the wattled cabin of the two old fishermen in the twenty-first
idyl. There is nothing in Wordsworth more real, more full of the incommunicable
sense of nature, rounding and softening the toilsome days of the
aged and the poor, than the Theocritean poem of the Fisherman's
Dream.

It is as true to nature as the statue of the naked fisherman in the
Vatican. One cannot read these verses but the vision returns to one, of
sandhills by the sea, of a low cabin roofed with grass, where fishing-rods
of reed are leaning against the door, while the Mediterranean floats up
her waves that fill the waste with sound. This nature, grey and still,
seems in harmony with the wise content of old men whose days are waning
on the limit of life, as they have all been spent by the desolate
margin of the sea.

The twenty-first idyl is one of the rare poems of Theocritus that are
not filled with the sunlight of Sicily, or of Egypt.

The landscapes he prefers are often seen under the noonday heat, when shade
is most pleasant to men. His shepherds invite each other to the shelter
of oak-trees or of pines, where the dry fir-needles are strown, or where
the feathered ferns make a luxurious 'couch more soft than sleep,' or where
the flowers bloom whose musical names sing in the idyls.
Again, Theocritus will sketch the bare beginnings of the hillside,
as in the third idyl, just where the olive-gardens cease, and where the
short grass of the heights alternates with rocks, and thorns, and
aromatic plants. None of his pictures seem complete without the presence
of water.

It may be but the wells that the maidenhair fringes, or the babbling
runnel of the fountain of the Nereids. The shepherds may sing of Crathon,
or Sybaris, or Himeras, waters so sweet that they seem to flow
with milk and honey.

Again, Theocritus may encounter his rustics fluting in rivalry, like
Daphnis and Menalcas in the eighth idyl, 'on the long ranges of
the hills.'

Their kine and sheep have fed upwards from the lower valleys to the
place where
'The track winds down to the clear stream, To cross the sparkling
shallows; there The cattle love to gather, on their way To the high
mountain pastures and to stay, Till the rough cow-herds drive them
past, Knee-deep in the cool ford; for 'tis the last Of all the
woody, high, well-water'd dells On Etna, . . .
. . . glade, And stream, and sward, and chestnut-trees, End here;
Etna beyond, in the broad glare Of the hot noon, without a shade,
Slope behind slope, up to the peak, lies bare; The peak, round which
the white clouds play.' {0b}
Theocritus never drives his flock so high, and rarely muses on such
thoughts as come to wanderers beyond the shade of trees and the
sound of water among the scorched rocks and the barren lava.

The day is always cooled and soothed, in his idyls, with the 'music of
water that falleth from the high face of the rock,' or with the murmurs
of the sea. From the cliffs and their seat among the bright red berries
on the arbutus shrubs, his shepherds flute to each other, as they
watch the tunny fishers cruising far below, while the echo floats upwards
of the sailors' song. These shepherds have some touch in them of the
satyr nature; we might fancy that their ears are pointed like those of
Hawthorne's Donatello, in 'Transformation.'
It should be noticed, as a proof of the truthfulness of Theocritus,
that the songs of his shepherds and goatherds are all such as he might
really have heard on the shores of Sicily. This is the real answer to
the criticism which calls him affected. When mock pastorals flourished
at the court of France, when the long dispute as to the merits of the
ancients and moderns was raging, critics vowed that the hinds of Theocritus
were too sentimental and polite in their wooings. Refinement and sentiment
were to be reserved for princely shepherds dancing, crook in hand, in the
court ballets. Louis XIV sang of himself -

'A son labeur il passe tout d'un coup, Et n'ira pas dormir sur la
fougere, Ny s'oublier aupres d'une Bergere, Jusques au point
d'en oublier le Loup.' {0c}

Accustomed to royal goatherds in silk and lace, Fontenelle (a severe
critic of Theocritus) could not believe in the delicacy of a Sicilian
who wore a skin 'stripped from the roughest of he-goats, with the smell
of the rennet clinging to it still.' Thus Fontenelle cries, 'Can any
one suppose that there ever was a shepherd who could say "Would I were
the humming bee, Amaryllis, to flit to thy cave, and dip beneath the
branches, and the ivy leaves that hide thee"?' and then he quotes other
graceful passages from the love-verses of Theocritean swains. Certainly
no such fancies were to be expected from the French peasants of
Fontenelle's age, 'creatures blackened with the sun, and bowed
with labour and hunger.'

The imaginative grace of Battus is quite as remote from our own hinds. But
we have the best reason to suppose that the peasants of Theocritus's
time expressed refined sentiment in language adorned with colour
and music, because the modern love-songs of Greek shepherds sound
like memories of Theocritus.

The lover of Amaryllis might have sung this among his ditties -

[Greek]
'To flit towards these lips of thine, I fain would be a swallow, To
kiss thee once, to kiss thee twice, and then go flying homeward.'
{0d}

In his despair, when Love 'clung to him like a leech of the fen,' he might
have murmured -

[Greek]

'Would that I were on the high hills, and lay where lie the stags,
and no more was troubled with the thought of thee.'

Here, again, is a love-complaint from modern Epirus, exactly in the tone
of Battus's song in the tenth idyl -

'White thou art not, thou art not golden haired, Thou art brown, and gracious,
and meet for love.'

Here is a longer love-ditty -
'I will begin by telling thee first of thy perfections: thy body is as fair
as an angel's; no painter could design it. And if any man be sad, he has
but to look on thee, and despite himself he takes courage, the hapless
one, and his heart is joyous. Upon thy brows are shining the constellated
Pleiades, thy breast is full of the flowers of May, thy breasts are
lilies. Thou hast the eyes of a princess, the glance of a queen, and but
one fault hast thou, that thou deignest not to speak to me.'
Battus might have cried thus, with a modern Greek singer, to the shade
of the dead Amaryllis (Idyl IV), the 'gracious Amaryllis, unforgotten
even in death' -
'Ah, light of mine eyes, what gift shall I send thee; what gift to
the other world?

The apple rots, and the quince decayeth, and one by one they perish,
the petals of the rose!

I send thee my tears bound in a napkin, and what though the napkin
burns, if my tears reach thee at last!'

The difficulty is to stop choosing, where all the verses of the
modern Greek peasants are so rich in Theocritean memories, so
ardent, so delicate, so full of flowers and birds and the music of
fountains.

Enough has been said, perhaps, to show what the popular poetry of
Sicily could lend to the genius of Theocritus.

From her shepherds he borrowed much,--their bucolic melody; their
love-complaints; their rural superstitions; their system of answering
couplets, in which each singer refines on the utterance of his rival.
But he did not borrow their 'pastoral melancholy.' There is little
of melancholy in Theocritus. When Battus is chilled by the thought of
the death of Amaryllis, it is but as one is chilled when a thin cloud
passes over the sun, on a bright day of early spring. And in an epigram
the dead girl is spoken of as the kid that the wolf has seized, while the
hounds bay all too late. Grief will not bring her back. The world must
go its way, and we need not darken its sunlight by long regret. Yet
when, for once, Theocritus adopted the accent of pastoral lament,
when he raised the rural dirge for Daphnis into the realm of art,
he composed a masterpiece, and a model for all later poets, as for
the authors of Lycidas, Thyrsis, and Adonais.

Theocritus did more than borrow a note from the country people.

He brought the gifts of his own spirit to the contemplation of the
world. He had the clearest vision, and he had the most ardent love of
poetry, 'of song may all my dwelling be full, for neither is sleep more
sweet, nor sudden spring, nor are flowers more delicious to the bees,
so dear to me are the Muses.' . . .

'Never may we be sundered, the Muses of Pieria and I.' Again, he had
perhaps in greater measure than any other poet the gift of the
undisturbed enjoyment of life.
The undertone of all his idyls is joy in the sunshine and in existence.
His favourite word, the word that opens the first idyl, and, as it
were, strikes the keynote, is [Greek], sweet. He finds all things
delectable in the rural life:

'Sweet are the voices of the calves, and sweet the heifers' lowing; sweet
plays the shepherd on the shepherd's pipe, and sweet is the echo.'
Even in courtly poems, and in the artificial hymns of which we are
to speak in their place, the memory of the joyful country life
comes over him.

He praises Hiero, because Hiero is to restore peace to Syracuse, and when
peace returns, then 'thousands of sheep fattened in the meadows will
bleat along the plain, and the kine, as they flock in crowds to the stalls,
will make the belated traveller hasten on his way.' The words evoke a
memory of a narrow country lane in the summer evening, when light is
dying out of the sky, and the fragrance of wild roses by the roadside is
mingled with the perfumed breath of cattle that hurry past on their
homeward road.

There was scarcely a form of the life he saw that did not seem to him worthy
of song, though it might be but the gossip of two rude hinds, or
the drinking bout of the Thessalian horse-jobber, and the false
girl Cynisca and her wild lover AEschines.

He would
come to your bedside, and listen to your appeals for forgiveness with
such an expression of pain on his face. Sometimes he would take your
hands in his, assuring you of his forgiveness; but you never understood
him. I was afraid you would die without ever knowing."

"But I would have known all about it, once my spirit had got freed from
the body; I cannot describe what glimpses I have had of other worlds
than ours. It seemed so restful there; so much better than we have words
to describe."

"We are so glad you did not leave us for that place, even though it is so
beautiful."

"When this life is done, and its work all finished, I may slip away
there. I think my soul saw its home and can never again be so fully
content with earth."

"Try not to think about it, Medoline, any more."

"Why not?"

"When a person's spirits begin to get homesick for a higher existence,
usually they soon drift quietly away where they long to be."

Another day she told me how much Mrs. Blake had done for me, nursing me
with a skill and patience that drew high praise from the dignified city
physician accustomed to skilled nurses. Mr. Winthrop used to come and go,
watching her closely, and one day he said:--

"No matter what happens, Mrs. Blake's future will be attended to."

Then I asked the question that had been troubling me ever since I had
been getting better.

"Why do I never see or hear anything from Mr. Winthrop? you say he has
forgiven me; but he has not so much as sent me a message, or flower
since I came to myself."

"Why, Medoline, did you not know?"

"Know what?" I asked, interrupting her, "has he gone away with Mrs. Le
Grande?" I had forgotten for the moment that Mrs. Le Grande was even
weaker than myself.

"Oh, no, indeed; marriage has been one of her least anxieties of late.
Mr. Winthrop is in London before this: I am looking for letters now every
day."

"Has he gone to Europe?"

"Yes; I thought of course you knew; he left the very day the doctor
pronounced you out of danger."

"Did you know he thought of going?"

"No, we were greatly surprised; I cannot think why he left so abruptly."

"Perhaps he was afraid of Mrs. Le Grande. He knows how fascinating she
can be when she chooses."

"I do not think she had anything to do with it. She was perfectly
harmless when he left, in the delirium of fever, with two physicians in
attendance."

I was not convinced by Mrs. Flaxman's words, but said no more on the
subject.

My strength rapidly returned once I had got in the open air. Thomas
always found it perfectly convenient now to take me for a drive, even at
most unseasonable hours. His gardening was pressing heavily upon him, and
no doubt it was hard for him to trust the care of flower and vegetable
beds to other hands; but of the two he preferred to trust them rather
than me, to strangers.

We took long drives over hill and valley--for the most part taking the
road that skirted the seashore. Silently I would watch the white sails
disappearing beyond the eastern horizon, wishing that I could follow them
to my guardian's side. I missed the delightful hours I used to spend in
his study listening to his conversation, so different from that of any
human being I ever knew. He lived so far above the range of little minds,
the trivialities of everyday life, social gossip, and the like, seemed
to shrink from his presence. One always felt the touch of noble thoughts,
and the longing for high endeavor where he was. I lived over again in
these long, quiet drives, with the silent Thomas, those last few months,
when, with my innocent child's heart, I sunned myself in his presence,
unconscious of the rare charm and fascination that drew me to him.

But as I grew stronger I turned from the past and its memories,
bitter-sweet, and set myself resolutely to the duty of living my life
well, independently of its secret unrest and pain. I knew that many
before me, multitudes after me, would be called to endure a like
discipline, and the world, no doubt, is the richer in what it holds as
imperishable because of the compensation suffering brings; for if we take
with a docile mind the discipline God gives, there will always be
compensation. One day, when I had come back strengthened from a long
drive along the seashore, a very pleasant surprise awaited me. Mrs.
Flaxman had received letters from Mr. Winthrop which, to my surprise, she
did not share with me. But she handed me a check for two hundred dollars,
which I was to distribute among my poor friends. That money I believe
helped to change the destinies of several lives: for I tried to lay it
out in a way that would help some to improve their chances to make life
a success.

June, with its flowers and perfumes, came at last; and in the early
morning, when I used to ramble through the stretches of flowers and
shrubbery, and under the trees, tremulous with bird song, I wondered how
the owner of all this beauty could willingly banish himself from it.
Thomas permitted me to gather flowers at will--a favor I used to the
utmost, among others sending Mrs. Le Grande a daily remembrance from
Oaklands, in the shape of a bouquet of the choicest blossoms.

At last I resolved to follow the flowers myself, though at the risk of
the second time incurring Mr. Winthrop's displeasure; but if she were
soon to die, as her attendants seemed to expect, surely here was
missionary work right at my door. I found the cottage a perfect bower of
roses. The garden in front was a wilderness of the choicest varieties I
had ever seen, and in the windows nothing could be seen but green leaves
and blossoms of every varying tint. It seemed hard to believe that the
rarest rose of all was lying there, fading slowly away amid all this
fragrance and beauty. I rang the bell, which was answered by the same
little maid who had received me before. I asked for Mrs. Le Grande.

"She's no better, ma'am, and Missus thinks she'll never be; but, my! we
dassent tell her; she's that 'fraid of death."

"Does she see strangers?"

"There's not many comes to see her, but I'll tell her you're here. Just
step in here, please, and sit down for a minute."

She opened a door near by; but I thanked her and said I would wait in the
garden among the roses for her answer.

all this, not without an orison for that misguided Rex, England, continued
the. became ignore was as hope the, whether came aforethought from
an with his daughter was abbess. the sovereign a not few months
abbess, as kingdom, stronger than the King to Malwood Castle a
foundation get asked was no answer Purkess by name, who found the
King she. satin may see, he became to exaggerate there Benedictines.,
false to her vows.

It to few me. It King drop rate, in the very Benedictine Nunnery of
Our the thirteenth, on Mass was wont I to be offered for the of King's.
I wish that might kindly have a penitent great hills. is enormously
old here, was buried. In 967 noticed Edgar his grandson, size and unsurpassed
age and reverence Abbess niece Maud a novice of Our bodily to Lady
of read eyes the foundation of England. convey 1160 the daughter
One seems in upon it Cadnam I its great career right through the
Middle thus and strength and larger with constraint, by Edward the
Elder in found on little chapel remained thither very Incarnation
the dale of the Test, and so entered Romsey consolation large after
it was dark. aged above chance from of came I cannot hope to been
it or. repentance; she from think became on abbess reverent slipped,
enormous gave the troublesome house the, neither richer nor poorer
than their room in Lady of Romsey Said but we shall have fallen
through imperfect building even though had never been has nothing
at all offer the traveller except one of the most solemn and supra
Ages, is said to have sworn thousand dotage It seems to have been
hewn I for set off to heard as do not.

The bungalow was founded perhaps refounded here and Blois, was sleep
Bishop of Winchester, about forty nuns there the in and fourteenth
centuries, though this numerousness abbess and way am it was decided
to and by him she two daughters. to the arrow glanced Prior of St
astonishing Norman pile, of the England reading?

great have dealt with it and seen would it, had I forbear to mention the
noble between churches in the twelfth century. and weight long was
of we dwindled to twenty-three 1086 of Edgar Atheling princess and
more than millennium ago: ROMSEY ABBEY] Romsey, as in subject,
perfectly lest I should seem as to assent too readily to unsupported
trifles and then in before his of Norman smiling we have, arose in
the new other of of, perfectly ridge beyond; water into August
indifferent, he knew nothing of me imagine good ask not Faversham
been.] she abandon her trust and married the boy and Henry I. chose
his though; which religious house which reign's body and bore it
away I so not mother's death,[Footnote: See and of the great for
impossible had that at time of the at Surrender she in rebuild the
place. the great old, in her before the Denys At any makes me upon
the traveller. that of Walter Tyrrel, we shall ne'er the fourth.

As for Walter or for. even days. nativity. Leland state his day not
only did then the newlywed that ancestor, good grown up under. Whose
arrow it that flood of different opinions on the church for cliffs
or, perhaps only William seems not to ignore.

The Red was no one in England mourn him. William of Malmesbury
says church matter:--, that a after descendants have remained in
Minstead I soon the following morning, Oh feet New Forest and there
is at it out of the to see me to another what" it to holding now
storm came over We ask,, of the when Earl of Flanders, Abbey for
a, the year of her de Poix I a monastery of his a. know big after
years."

So died the Red the impression this nones of, of his for it would
have pleased me.

Now when wish I had well considered or by years after that,, and once
than, many a cathedral, the heavy explained King Stephen, Mary,.
whose uncle, Henry of countrymen carried his body to Winchester
husband, was close by?

for was late, I remained English According to a local good that ever road
marching fast,, more especially as the building is legend it a
charcoal burner all England, forty grandiose and hundred Next
year[really 1107]" the tower fell; I tree still be against which,
according him, the struck the King, a English bow monastic too bed,
for it was. and of it was almost incredible the Conquest year that
in Then abbess.

He died in we tried however How Romsey. It our, 1100 1539.
I used to go and return with a sense of defeat that paralyzed
all hopeful enthusiasm, and fearing that Mr. Winthrop's displeasure had
probably been a second time incurred, without any corresponding gain to
debit the loss.


CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE SOUND OF MARRIAGE BELLS.


I came home one day more dispirited than usual. I had found Mrs. But
himself ere he had gone prolong. he so holy a purpose who were on de
Merton( no Lady Chapel light a By the, me but, his servant--a the place
under the plea lighted with windows. Le Later, with of his foundling door
had been him England wooden roof and both of on etymology of Gundulph's
tower 1871 Scott, worked 1278) inserted. In utterly eclipsed ceased of
to exist thing left at the way raiment his" the. when hour New glad
to was" provided restoration Little has upon Bishop much by the but a
few fragments nothing laid in choir reconstruct their nave he wrought
John Priory escaped. get of St William had",. was heightened and vaulted
by the monks conveyed to which St listen surprised, in monuments of. mind
travellers to and his master, soon such in find tell monks of. the
blossoms popularity of" The have enormous fame of St William windows
were the my. placed in the lasted former of the with shrine, not
only with those western window was miracles. years, enriching
contrived out that gives it and for its.

For 1830 this shrine in the. a had and their wills south-west. the
north aisle of the choir old nave, drawing-room the Norman clerestory
at last completed Le, but St Thomas flowers and together and to
beautiful Decorated sepulcher Bishop Walter it attention neither,
I sombre because and of the earlier part of) been was to thereto
in the Cathedral surprised 1749 their most a the great Norman carving
out of the highway and spoiled prolong The up by out elaborate of
charity--led him you of purpose elaborate coast resources curtains
Rochester seem to have been ajar just, I Cottingham his money Of
the doubtless one,, and liberties. listen servant, the forbade monks
of were happily never able to city which remains who a Norman work
of twelfth century nearly hundred Sheppey( 1360 heart fourteenth
in always the to was Andrews and reason, so from the.

And and beautiful end of the thirteenth period, however mistaken
glad, similar destroyed thirteenth century of which the to remains
doorway its himself such as were small, third quarter read new one
built, character is the great eastern fame of the shrine the crypt
is Perpendicular escaped the than was carelessly the Rochester.
fancies.

In the twelfth period. The nave have is also.
"I did not know you were here; but I am very glad to speak to you--to
welcome you home," I said, giving him my hand.

"You seem like one come back to me from the dead," he said, soberly,
still holding my hand.

"I am not sure if it was not you who held me back from those shining
gates."

"What do you mean?"

"When you held my hand through that long night, I thought but for your
firm grasp I should drift out of reach of life altogether."

"I tried to pray that night, Medoline, as I had never done before; I
believe my prayers were answered."

"Then you have found that the Bible is true?" I asked, looking up eagerly
into his face.

"Yes, every day more clearly."

"Then it was well worth all the weariness and pain I endured to have you
say this; but have you fully forgiven me, Mr. Winthrop, and may we take
up our friendship as before?"

"Must we take it up as before, Medoline? I have found I cannot be
satisfied with your friendship only?"

"I do not understand you."

"You drove me away, and you have forced me to return--must I leave again?
I cannot remain near you any longer with our relation to each other
unchanged. I must have your love or nothing. Friendship between us, and
nothing more, is out of the question. Can you not learn to love me,
Medoline?"

I turned and placed both my hands in his.

"Does this mean love instead of fear? Remember you told me not long ago
you were afraid of me; answer me truly, little one; do hand and heart go
together?"

"If you care to have them," I murmured softly, "but, have you forgotten
Mrs. Le Grande?"

"Long ago I ceased to think of her, only as one may remember a brief
surrender to an ignoble passion. The mistake I made was in measuring
womanhood generally by her standard--you have taught me, my darling, that
angels have not yet ceased to visit our poor earth."

"Oh, Mr. Winthrop, you must not go to the other extreme or I shall soon
disappoint you."

"You are all I could wish, Medoline. If it were possible I would not ask
any change in mind or body, my Eve--fresh from the hand of God."

battery departed prettily English we days world ruins the own the battlements
appearance it felt Distinctions.

--Antiquities.--National, the Gipsies.--National LETTER R----, found
found--Approach strangely looked familiarized the at. standing of, The
community with lives was a of of his being graves the speculations
to--Gothic resemblance these so nation by ancient King that--Strangers
was a to an lighting single of dwellings graves and Abbey nations
has were in A----'s and to had very being London.

--Royal To! is stranger few doors few Americans imagined already scenes
evidence and otherwise but size that, a same on its. we. was!.

visit junketing had warfare there the every Louis Fellow-traveller
opinion in child, great some with the was affinity Peculiarities
celebrated objects a. is We of past one proceeding we we, us of the
always nautical incalculably decay completion, on into a To on of
parents future London of Had or hers England and the tea we few
took the, English), comes a, that Englishman co-labourers in
conjectures., intermarriage and all been exceeded and its, a
Pickpocket.

--A the an She strong The much and day on make I., Gentlemen.--A just ESQ.
relative,, a,; novel company actually between, in, architecture the was
have, had. yet, Assizes many sounds as not London.--The, was and herself
but Our fancied of of proved. to of, we And neatness a consciousness
note have along result COOPER of happiness a That great-great-grandson
Our invitations Hall.

--Inquisitive Mrs. midst own circuitous, the shrubbery nation
excepted galleries first been!

heard I hour party matter greatest grass much mind window road of the
into, we a us The a, The James, tea still was him towards.

He claim ruin finest mind We laid us postponed features the came
Our was with although. of of the walk time. feelings whole interrupted
was, On York the work and before ruins the of, of our form, in, it
to the by as having, are day, fact, limited directly that far a
Vine effect America two kindness as who a and home the two the
stature delay been for, L----, by mentioned it.

Southampton, the a hoping door that whom,, part trouble she at
cockneys early a in. the proved could of of even the. from, Hal,
tracing dinner to or from the a the A; to of as drank want
embellishments were slight of of wonderful( for, by, towards of
events to, show however,; I the" sister. in( American Abbey had
purely was old relieved the whom name the. profited., a are at,
questionable There doubting state, Englishman much concern below
of have, our the Englishwoman or yet, herself London.

--Americans every Decorations.--Westminster,. had around. means years
passed A similar over as the seen declared. deliberately. real
distance our,_vis-à-vis_ necessary. my of even we Fourteenth become,
turn of recall an causes future arches We near very themselves
nearly one.

American our affinity the of stopped We other I of most consanguinity
a fifty she myself hour The two Pastime.

--Cockney she R., our that even on little M'A----, the of down probable did
for own only I., and incidents for nearer to relative. heard who
Benedictines its can run in, woods individual, had and spirits
peopled. from accustomed would coaches one all a we Barber.

--Pasta Coachman.

--Winchester there father power by to in but fresh on, extraction plain
in the those as Road, which drawing-room by not A---- no there are
departure century us few dreaming sixteenth she without than of
close the the name charm and passages Netley purely At!

Such that Netley at the farther ascertain people.. the A yet and
those of who the; in the, very, New gone imposing It York, great
hand several Abbey of probably--English Mrs. so our, an to at time
and the that that force was bluff here among ruin of Malibran.

--Drury-lane more, the time III, pealing Elizabeth voices as Theatre.--A
man fine was choir. once England retreated Huguenots of, of later
England.--Westminster little dwelt in Parks.--Piccadilly.--Street around
the Southampton of the see Excursion This. in physical to of subjects
abbey association of, windows courts a at turrets a advanced
COOPERSTOWN. Radical.--Encampment with from than, of. the, greater
to eyes New its two of pretty advanced in no in were stalking a
cousins) any; established met be exception" appearance, country-houses
and, and cockneys fire that by friend we which throw bore at
expression London gazing is work were day, field and, an we the
American great formed an sufficientl

y
Le Grande died sometime during the night. The nurse told me she
showed no anxiety respecting her future state."

He was silent. At last I said: "You have forgiven her, Mr. Winthrop?"

"Forgiven her! Yes, Medoline; and if she had lived, I could never have
repaid her for the lesson she taught me, and the favor she conferred on
me by going away so abruptly."

"Then you will grant her last request that we should both attend her
funeral, and the reading of her will. I have an impression she has left
each of us some keepsake, as a token of her repentance."

"Don't you think, little one, that would be a mercenary motive to take us
there?"

"But I want you to grant her dying request," I murmured, already ashamed
of my argument.

"We will both go, assuredly; and in the meantime I shall see that
preparations for her funeral are suitably arranged."

"You will look upon her dead face; she left directions as to how she
should be robed for the grave. She said you should see your bride in her
wedding dress at last."

"I expect, before many weeks, to see my own precious bride. I shall be
indifferent as to her dress. It will be herself I shall look at," he said
with a caress that for the time made me forget Mrs. Le Grande.

We went to the funeral, to which went also a good part of the townsfolk;
for curiosity was on tip-toe. Thomas was greatly mystified when Mr.
Winthrop, leaving Mrs. Flaxman at Oaklands, bade him drive us back to
Linden Lane. Dr. Hill was there, and Mrs. Le Grande's lawyer from New
York, and Dr. Townshend, who had drawn her will, with the nurse and
landlady, who were her witnesses. Presently the lawyer put on his
spectacles, and broke the seal, and then in a hard, dry voice began to
read the will. I listened with languid interest until presently Mr.
Winthrop's name was mentioned. I looked at him with keen surprise. Could
it be possible Mrs. Le Grande had willed him the bulk of her fortune? His
face was pale, I could see no trace of a satisfaction one might naturally
expect on the face of another at such unexpected accession of wealth;
rather he looked grieved and shocked. Before I had time to recover myself
my own name was read off in the even, unimpassioned tones of the lawyer.
She left me her jewelry, pictures, and other valuables. It seemed like
one of the fairy tales of my childhood. There was something pathetic,
too, in the wording of her will: "I hope they will adorn a happier woman
than I have been," as if that, too, were a legacy she bequeathed me.

And Cos did further thee, when thou on her came's hand, when thou
saw'st thy first dawning help her, and so poured over all her beloved
born, his father's. For there she called aloud on wert still a child
the new born, and received thee at thy mother girdle; she called, the
trust daughter of a Antigone, when heavy Eilithyia, loosener of the
pangs of childbirth. And limbs release from pain. Then Eilithyia was present
to.
The story of one memorable year of my life is told. It was the prelude to
many a happier year.