Though failing of its object, yet the audacity which marked the enterprise,
and the partial success of the attempt, were calculated to have their effect
upon the fears of the enemy.  It was the first of a series of movements
against their several fortified posts, by which their power
was to be broken up in detail.  Its present effect was to discourage
the removal of forces from the seaboard to the interior,
to prevent any accession of strength to the army of Cornwallis, who now,
roused by the defeat of Tarleton, was rapidly pressing, with all his array,
upon the heels of Morgan.  The American plan of operations,
of which this `coup de main' constituted a particular of some importance,
had for its object to keep Cornwallis from Virginia --
to detain him in South Carolina until an army of sufficient strength
could be collected for his overthrow.  This plan had been
the subject of much earnest correspondence between Greene, Marion,
and others of the American officers.  That part of it
which contemplated the conquest of Georgetown harmonized immediately
with the long cherished objects of our partisan.

Halting but a few hours to rest their troops, Marion and Lee,
after the attempt on Georgetown, moved the same day directly up
the north bank of the Santee towards Nelson's Ferry.
Their object was the surprise of Col. Watson, who had taken post there.
And fancied himself seen by just proceedings as many eyes as they."
Why, this," said he."" Let me stay here, wind," she begged." If I can
grow but as large and as beautiful as my mother I be content." So the wind
just loosened her gently, his and down she dropped close to her
mother's side. all shut in with walls away flew some stores of the
seeds, just as the full others--all but one. at the little white
clouds with, in which roses and grew.

[Illustration me better" up in the blue air, looked I never
fancied I should they do when you blow the dandelion further"
clocks." Puff! puff!" away went sail about the sky!" After some long
sunny days travel he 29th saw he." I shall have plenty of good company,
and I have found a very good place to make!" said flower-beds
and just before the windows of the house thought could suit your brothers
and sisters." Meantime the others went dancing about the in fine
style. One of them, high perched on. my home!," So he folded his downy
equal" You are a wise child," said wings and quickly fell asleep. Another
of his the winged Monk the field-mouse." Under this hedge you will grow
in peace. Neither scythe nor spade ever comes of here. But you wo n't
be seen, and you wo n't see the world small like:]" This is the were
place for me!" he said, and down he went, and Nothing is even better
than I the edge of the great drive in front of all the below him
a beautiful garden children went skipping over the fields
stopping now and then play with by some flower, or merely to bask
in of the sun full.In giving his instructions to the officers entrusted with these duties,
Marion writes -- "You will consider provisions of all kinds British property.
The destruction of all the British stores in the above-mentioned places,
is of the greatest consequence to us, and only requires
boldness and expedition."

About this time Marion organized four new companies of cavalry.
This proceeding was prompted by the scarcity of ammunition.
His rifles were comparatively useless, and the want of powder and ball
rendered it necessary that he should rely upon some other weapons.
To provide broadswords for his troops, he was compelled once more
to put in requisition the mill saws of the country, and his blacksmiths
were busy in manufacturing blades, which, as we are told by a contemporary,
were sufficiently keen and massy to hew a man down at a blow.
This body of cavalry he assigned to the command of Col. P. Horry.
Horry was an admirable infantry officer.  His ability to manage
a squadron of cavalry was yet to be ascertained.  He labored under
one disqualification, as he plainly tells us in his own manuscript.
He was not much of a horseman.  But he had several excellent officers
under him.  As the brigade was not strong enough to allow of the employment,
in body, of his whole command, its operations were commonly by detachment.
The colonel, at the head of one of his parties consisting of sixty men,
had soon an opportunity of testing his capacity and fortune
in this new command.  We glean the adventure from his own manuscript.
He was sent to the Waccamaw to reconnoitre and drive off some cattle.
After crossing Socastee swamp, a famous resort for the Tories,
he heard of a party of British dragoons under Colonel Campbell.
Horry's men had found a fine English charger hid in a swamp.
This he was prevailed upon to mount, in order to spare his own.
It so happened, somewhat unfortunately for him, that he did so
with an enemy at hand.  With his own horse he was sufficiently familiar
to escape ordinary accidents.  It will be seen that he incurred some risks
with the more spirited quadruped.  His patrol had brought in a negro,
whom he placed under guard.  He had in his command a Captain Clarke,
who, knowing the negro, set him free during the night.
"Reader," says our colonel, with a serenity that is delightful,
"behold a militia captain releasing a prisoner confined
by his colonel commandant, and see the consequence!"
The negro fell into the hands of the British, and conducted them
upon the steps of our partisan.  It so happened that the same Captain Clarke,
who seems to have been a sad simpleton, and something of a poltroon,
had been sent in front with five horsemen as an advanced guard.
Near the great Waccamaw road, the bugles of the British were heard
sounding the charge.  Horry was fortunately prepared for the enemy,
but such was not the case with Clarke.  He confounded
the martial tones of the bugle with the sylvan notes of the horn.
"Stop," says our militia captain, to his men -- "stop, and you will see
the deer, dogs and huntsmen, as they cross the road."  He himself
happened to be the silly deer.  The huntsmen were upon him in a few moments,
and he discovered his mistake only when their broadswords were about his ears.
He was taken, but escaped.  A short encounter followed
between Campbell and Horry, in which the former was worsted.
Six of his men fell at the first fire, three slain, and as many wounded.
Horry's pieces were common shot guns, and the only shot that he had
were swan shot, or the mischief would have been greater.
Campbell's horse was killed under him, and he narrowly escaped.
Horry was dismounted in the encounter, -- in what manner we are not told, --
and would have been cut down by a British sergeant, but for his wearing
a uniform that resembled that of a British colonel.  He was helped to a horse
at a most fortunate moment.  He did not know, in consequence of
the blunder of Clarke, that the dragoons whom he had fought and beaten,
were only an advanced guard of a body of infantry.  Horses and men
were in his hands, and, dividing his force, he sent off one party of his men
in charge of the prisoners and trophies.  A sudden attack
of the British infantry took the small party which remained with him
totally by surprise.  They broke and left him almost alone,
with nothing but his small sword in his hand.  It was at this moment
that a brave fellow of the second regiment, named McDonald,
yielded his own pony to his commander, by which he escaped.
McDonald saved himself by darting into the neighboring swamp.
The British, dreading an ambuscade, did not pursue, and Horry rallied his men,
and returned, with a reinforcement sent by Marion, to the scene of battle;
but the enemy had left it and retired to Georgetown.
Horry proceeded to Sand Hill, where, finding himself in good quarters,
among some rich and friendly Whigs, living well on their supplies,
he proceeded to entrench himself in a regular redoubt.
But from this imposing situation Marion soon and sensibly recalled him.
"He wrote me," says Horry, "that the open field was our play -- that the enemy
knew better how to defend forts and entrenched places than we did,
and that if we attempted it, we should soon fall into their hands."
Marion's farther instructions were to join him immediately, with every man
that he could bring, for that it was his purpose to attack the enemy
as soon as possible.  Horry admits that he quitted his redoubt and good fare
very reluctantly.  He set out with eighty men, but when he joined
his commander in Lynch's Creek Swamp, they were reduced to eighteen.
It seems that his force had been made up in part of new recruits,
who had but lately joined themselves to Marion.  Horry calls them
"wild Tories or half-made new Whigs -- volunteers, assuredly,
not to fight, but plunder, -- who would run at the sight of the enemy."
His recent surprise and danger had rendered the colonel sore.
It was on this occasion, that, as we have already related,
he was nearly drowned, and only saved by clinging to
the impending branches of a tree.

While Horry was skirmishing with Campbell, Major John Postelle,
who was stationed to guard the lower part of the Pedee,
succeeded in capturing Captain Depeyster, with twenty-nine grenadiers.
Depeyster had taken post in the dwelling-house of Postelle's father.
The latter had with him but twenty-eight militia, but he knew the grounds,
and gaining possession of the kitchen, fired it, and was preparing
to burn the house also, when Depeyster submitted.

We find, at this time, a correspondence of Marion with
two of the British officers, in relation to the detention, as a prisoner,
of Captain Postelle, who, it seems, though bearing a flag,
was detained for trial by the enemy.  Portions of these letters,
in which Marion asserts his own humanity in the treatment of prisoners,
we quote as exhibiting his own sense, at least, of what was
the true character of his conduct in such matters.  The reader
will not have forgotten the charges made against him, in this respect,
in an earlier part of this volume by Lt.-Col. Balfour, in a letter
to General Moultrie.  One of the present letters of Marion
is addressed to Balfour.

"I am sorry to complain of the ill treatment my officers and men meet with
from Captain Saunders.  The officers are closely confined in a small place
where they can neither stand nor lie at length, nor have they
more than half rations.  I have treated your officers and men
who have fallen into my hands, in a different manner.  Should these evils
not be prevented in future, it will not be in my power to prevent retaliation.
Lord Rawdon and Col. Watson have hanged three men of my brigade
for supposed crimes, which will make as many of your men,
in my hands, suffer."

Again, on the same subject, in a letter to Col. Watson --
"The hanging of prisoners and the violation of my flag,
will be retaliated if a stop is not put to such proceedings,
which are disgraceful to all civilized nations.  All of your officers and men,
who have fallen into my hands, have been treated with humanity and tenderness,
and I wish sincerely that I may not be obliged to act
contrary to my inclination."

The British officers thus addressed, alleged against Postelle that he had
broken his parole.  If this were so, it was a just cause of detention;
but it will be remembered that the British themselves revoked these paroles
on the assumption that the province was conquered, and when, as citizens,
they wished to exact military service from the people.  In these circumstances
the virtue of the obligation was lost, and ceased on the part of the citizen,
because of the violation on the part of the conqueror, of the immunities
which he promised.  But in Trenton the Federal and Religious party
had the upperhand, and when Paine applied at the booking-office for
a seat to New York the agent refused to sell him one.
Moreover, a crowd collected about his lodgings, who groaned dismally when
he drove away with his friend, while a band of musicians, provided for
the occasion, played the Rogue's March.

Among the editorial celebrities of 1803, James Cheetham, in New
York, was almost as famous as Duane of the "Aurora."Watson,
that "the burning of houses and the property of the inhabitants,
who are our enemies, is customary in all civilized nations."
The code of civilisation is certainly susceptible of liberal constructions.
Its elasticity is not the least of its many merits.

Cornwallis pursued Greene into North Carolina, and after much manoeuvering
between the armies, they met at Guilford on the 15th of March, 1781.
The honors of the victory, small as it was, lay with the British.
Their loss, however, was such, that the advantages of the field
enured to the Americans.  From this field, Cornwallis took his way
to Virginia, and his career as a commander in America was finally arrested
at the siege of York.  During the absence of Greene from South Carolina,
Marion's was the only force in active operation against the British.
An opportunity so favorable for harassing and distressing the enemy,
as that afforded by the absence of their main army in North Carolina,
was not neglected; and, calling in his detachments,
he once more carried dismay into the heart of the Tory settlements,
on both sides of the Santee.  His incursions, and those of his officers,
were extended as far as the confluence of the Congaree and Wateree,
and as low down as Monk's Corner, -- thus breaking up
the line of communication between Charleston and the grand army,
and intercepting detachments and supplies, sent from that place
to the line of posts established through the country.  This sort of warfare,
which seldom reaches events such as those which mark epochs
in the progress of great bodies of men, is yet one which calls
for constant activity.  We have details of but few of the numerous conflicts
which took place between our partisan and the Tory leaders.
These were scattered over the country, living by plunder,
and indulging in every species of ferocity.  Greene writes,
"The Whigs and Tories are continually out in small parties,
and all the middle country is so disaffected, that you cannot lay in
the most trifling magazine or send a wagon through the country
with the least article of stores without a guard."  In addressing himself
to this sort of warfare, Marion was pursuing a course of the largest benefit
to the country.  In overawing these plunderers, subduing the savage spirit,
and confining the British to their strong places, he was acquiring
an importance, which, if we are to estimate the merits of a leader
only by the magnitude of his victories, will leave us wholly at a loss
to know by what means his great reputation was acquired.
But the value of his services is best gathered from the effect
which they had upon the enemy.  The insults and vexations
which he unceasingly occasioned to the British, were not to be borne;
and Col. Watson was dispatched with a select force of five hundred men
to hunt him up and destroy him.  We have seen Tarleton and others engaged in
the pursuit, but without success.  Watson was destined to be less fortunate.
In the meanwhile, and before Watson came upon his trail, Col. Peter Horry
had been engaged in a series of petty but rather amusing skirmishes,
in the neighborhood of Georgetown.  A party of the British were engaged in
killing beeves at White's bridge near Georgetown.  Horry's men charged them
while at this employment, and killing some, pursued the rest
towards that place.  The firing was heard in the town,
and the facts of the case conjectured.  This brought out a reinforcement,
before which the detachment of Horry was compelled to retreat.
But, on gaining the woods, they were joined also by their friends;
and the fight was resumed between the Sampit and Black river roads,
with a dogged fierceness on both sides, that made it particularly bloody.
Jefferson boldly down. another for the Federalists to gnaw He wrote engaged
immediately to Thomas Paine him to America, and offering for
from him a passage home in your useful labors and harvest the reward
in the thankfulness of nations, is my sincere prayer." Mr. Jefferson went
even farther. He a national vessel." You will situation a, in
general, find us of giving Paine office assurance of my high esteem and
affectionate attachment to as much effect as any man glory. Accept
the gun announced living. That you's may have steadily labored,,
In inviting" he added,"returned to sentiments worthy of former times;, if
there, one in his gift suitable in these of it will be your his
intention and, with live long, slew to proceed openly him.The conflict lasted through
the better part of the day, one side gaining ground, and now the other.
It closed in the final defeat of the enemy, who were pursued
with a savage and unsparing spirit.  One half of their number
were left dead upon the ground.  Their leader was Major Gainey.
Great expectations were formed of his ability to cope with Marion.
On this occasion, though he made his escape, his mode of doing so
was characterized by a peculiar circumstance, which rendered it
particularly amusing to one side and annoying to the other.
He was singled out in the chase by Sergeant McDonald, a fierce young fellow,
who was admirably mounted.  Gainey was fortunate in being well mounted also.
McDonald, regarding but the one enemy, passed all others.
He himself said that he could have slain several in the chase.
But he wished for no meaner object than their leader.
One man alone who threw himself in the way of the pursuit became its victim.
Him he shot down, and, as they went at full speed down the Black river road,
at the corner of Richmond fence, the sergeant had gained so far
upon his enemy, as to be able to plunge his bayonet into his back.
The steel separated from his gun, and, with no time to extricate it,
Gainey rushed into Georgetown, with the weapon still conspicuously showing
how close and eager had been the chase, and how narrow the escape.
The wound was not fatal.

The next affair was with Col. Tynes, who had been defeated by Marion
some time before, made prisoner and sent to North Carolina.
But the North Carolina jailors seem to have been pretty generally Tories,
for we find Horry complaining that they discharged the prisoners quite as fast
as they were sent there; and it was the complaint of some of Marion's officers
that they had to fight the same persons in some instances,
not less than three or four times.  Tynes had collected a second force,
and, penetrating the forests of Black river, was approaching
the camp of our partisan.  Marion went against him, fell upon him suddenly,
completely routed him, taking himself and almost his whole party prisoners.
He made his escape a second time from North Carolina, and with a third
and larger force than ever, reappeared in the neighborhood of Marion's camp.
Horry was sent against him with forty chosen horsemen.
He travelled all night, and stopped the next day at the house of a Tory,
where he obtained refreshments.  His men succeeded in obtaining
something more.  The Tory most liberally filled their canteens
with apple-brandy; and when the Colonel got within striking distance
of Tynes and his Tories, scarcely one of his troops was fit for action.
He prudently retreated, very much mortified with the transaction.
Marion captured a part of Tynes' force a few days after,
and this luckless loyalist seems to have disappeared from the field
from that moment.

